{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__colquhoun___isis_revelata.pdf","mytitle":"Isis Revelata","mylang":"de"}
E|§[|§ |REVEI!.A7I'A=
_Il ~-° ¢~.
< /QfnrJi1q£t11'§5w>
INTO
`
THE ORIGIN, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STATE
0 F
A ,/" , r
2*\
,
Qningal1@iIQl?Kti$llI: f
BY
J. fc. ESQ.AHDVUCATE, ESQ. AHDVUCATE,
I-'_ R.s.E.
/'J
.
_.E
~
I _
V'
'/7 __ _,_ 1
1
" 1"
_
L
_r
A. * _ 5
,-
I
`
wi
:|.` iq
'
-V
`E1;1, \\ I
k Q
'I
'f I
\
*.|1-` x
'
_
~
'
W
' ~
_ ,-
If _
M .f A iw# ff
' Z/ JI?" -
wa
"
I.; *Ig--' '
`V
_
n"
IF -I
\'
-:?. 4,
-
"`5EA. _
_H -_ ,
.;_',_,,§ ;
I
I
mf)
~
" 1 '»:_ ,._".iT._'|7="'-
1"
"-
2. =
_e»~|-.s- ET T:,
E
E
VUL. I.
xs R H v-A A Al L w Pl
*\\ BFLD\\'\N 1 CRAD( K (. JN
ISIS REVIELATAZ
AN INQUIRY
THE ORIGIN, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STATE
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
J. 0;
goLf§I_II_Q@I, ESQ.
ADVOCATE, F. R. S. E.
Ingenii comment; dqlet diss ; nnturm judicia conlirmat.--C|cu.o.
Non Gngendum, non exeogitandum, sed inveniendum et observandum
quid Natun facint aut ferat.-BAcoN.
VOL. I.
.» .»
»°a°
',' _-.4 ao
EDINBURGH :
MACLACHLAN 8z STEWART;
AND BALDWIN 8; CRADOCK, LONDON.
'
Mncccxxxvr.
\
Hullixl 5' if Mfyn; 55601; pi;/a 'yfywrm il;/as
Ku); uv rf; Alfraur' #sua Qi!/4186 30:55-
Th R xaxafr vnfnln suiiplvav éeynliuf vs
'A|vlpna; xupfv flxlm vflnr' 5y1'§. _
SoLoN, apud Stobaeum
Sapa dolor tennis morbos pmduxit acerbos,
Tollern quon nullis nit medicaminibu| :
Sapa diu :evo jactatum eorporis moth
Contu.-tu sauum reddidit una mmm.
Gnofuus.
£73 f"§é ¢"}(}£"¢E
r;);{_}7f'_Jf~¢g(tf/ .il
° 1 .rv 1 .
0
.
s
'
o
C I .
. ~
gf Vi/'
--
...f
O
CONTENTS
or
VOLUME I.
PREFACE T0 'run Finer Enrrxou.
Pmancn 'ro rin Slocum Enmoze.
Page
Iurnonvcrxon...... 3
Camrnn I.-Definition of Animal Magnetism. Extra-
ordinary nature of the phenomena. Didiculty of
belief. Experimental investigation recommended.
p
Best means of conducting it. Evidence in favour
of the facts. Objection of marvellousness obviated.
Opinions of Philosophers-La Place-Cuvier-
Coleridge-Trevimnus, &c. . . . 69
Cmnvrnn II.-Phenomena of Animal Magnetism deserve
serious attention. Tend to increase our
physiolo-
gical and psychological knowledge. Experiments
conducted not by empixics alone, but by profes-
sional gentlemen of learning, intelligence, &c.-
Curious populnr opinions which have prevailed al-
most universally in the world-Influence ascribed
to the touch of the human hand.-Royal touch.-
lniluence of the human eye, breath, and saliva,
&c....... 78
CONTENTS.
Cnnrsa III.-Sympathy.- The stomach a
principal
centre of nervous sympathy.-Effects of moral
causes upon the stomach.-Opinions of Dr Cullen,
Dr Alison, &c. .... _
Cssvrns IV.-Sympathy between the mind and the
body.-Cases of John de Poictiers and Henry IV.
of France. Iniinence of the mental afections over
the bodily secretions. Case reported by Dr Ward-
rop. Beneficial effects of mental impressions upon
the body.-Opinions ofDr John Gardiner. Alleged
inHuence of the . . .
Curran V.-Nature herself cures diseases-Opinions
of Hippocrates, Paracelsus, Van Helmont, Dr Ni-
chols, Dr Laurence, Stahl, Hunter and Abemethy,
Dr T. Simson, Dr Hofmann. Effects of faith and
confidence. Fienus. Galen. Pechlin, &c. Ex-
tract from Le Globe.-Miracles wrought at the
tombof the Abbé Paris. Explanation o£ Opinion
of Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury, upon. Miracles
at the tomb`of Saint Jubin. Cure of the yellow
fever by Magnetism. Faith and coniidence neces-
sary to the success of every transaction in life.
Opinion of VVil1iam Maxwell, &c. .
.
Cnsrrss. VI.-Power of volition over the organism.
Kant. Passavant. Brandis. Boerhaave. Frank-
lin. Bernier. Avicenna. Cardanus. St Austin.
Case reported by Dr Cheyne.-Power of the voli-
tion of one individual over the organism of another.
Opinions of authors. Pomponatius, Van Helmont,
&c. Case related by Joseph Glanvill,_&c. .
Cnsvrna VII.-Didiculty of explaining the phenomena
of Animal Magnetism. Difference between mate-`
rial and mental phenomena. Theory.-Experi-
ments on the nervous system.-Transference of
Vital Power. Physical analogies, &c. . .
CH
CONTENTS.
Arran VIII.-Magnetic opinions and practices
of the ancients. Temples of Health.-Verses of
Solon. Plautus. Martial._`Practice.of Asclepiades.
Magnetism among the Oriental nations. In the
Monasteries. Witchcraft. Opinions of the North
American Indians. Influence of the imagination.
Case of Elizabeth Bryant. Philosophical Medicine.
Opinion of Dr Ziermann, &c. . .
.
Cnsrrsn. IX.-Levret, Greatrakes, and Streper. Method
of Greatrakes. Opinions of 'his practice by Philo-
sophers, Physicians, and Divines. Gassner. Other
natural magnetizers. V
....
Crurrsa X.--Mesmer. _
His labours in the discoveryof
Animal Magnetism, at Vienna. in Paris, &c. Per-
kinism. Mesmer_ makes converts His theory.
Conduct of the Medical Faculty of Paris. Progress
of Animal Magnetism. Court de Gebelin, &c.
Cnknmn XI.-Mesmer's mode of conducting the mag-
netic treatment. Whimsical apparatus and mys-
tery. Opposition. Mesmer sells his secret. Har-
monic Societies. Committee to investigate the
medicinal eiiects of the mineral magnet. Commit-
tee to investigate Animal Magnetism. Reports,
and remarks upon them. Report of Jussieu. Pub-
lications on the subject. Lavater imparts the sys-
tem of Animal Magnetism to Doctors Bickers, Ol-
bers, and Wienholt. Boeckmann and Gmelin re-
ceive it from Strasburg. Works on the subject.
Death of Mesiner. 'His character, &c. . .
Cnnrxa XII.-Schools of Animal Magnetism, at Paris,
Lyons, and Ostend. Strasburg. Improved treat-
ment introduced by Puysegur. Magnetic power
and susceptibility. Physical and psychical quali-
Bcations. Magnetic treatment, simple or com-
pound. Manipulation-with contact-in dictum.
vii
.1
188
203
213
232
Vlll CONTENT .
Method of administering Animal Magnetism recom-
mended by Kluge. Preparatory and effective ma-
nipulations, &c.... .
Cunrsn XIII.-Effects of Animal Magnetism upon the
organism of the patient. General effects. Parti-
cular effects. Classiication of the phenomena.
First, second, third, fourth; fifth, and sixth degrees.
Theory of 'the first French Commissioners-imagb
nation, imitation, and uttouclwnient. Opinions of
Doctors Btieglitz, Hufeland, Sprengel, Ziermann,
and of Professor Dugald Stewart. . .
Cnsvrls. XIV.-Phenomena of Animal Magnetism.
Sleep. Somnambulism. Organic insensibility.
Transference of the faculties. Natural Somnam-
bulism, &c. .... .
CHAPTER XV.->Somnambu.lism known to the ancients.
Cases reported by Van Helmont-Horstius-Hem
rieus ab Heer-Muratori-Gassendi-Vigneul de
Marville-Dr Prichard-Martinet-Professor Up-
ham-Macnish-Gall-Dr Franklin. Case of Lord
Culpepper's brother. Case of a French gentleman.
Case at the Town-Hall, Southwark. Other exam-
ples. ..... .
Cnnrxn XVI.-.Archbishop of Bourdeaux' case. Case
reported by Dr Levade, and MM. Regnier and Van
Berchem. Case reported 'by .Professor Feder of
Goéttingen. Case recorded in the Transactions of
the Medical Society of Breslau. Total organic
insensibility. Case reported by Dr Knoll. .
Cnsrrsa XVII.-Cases reported by M. Sauvagcs de la
Croix-Lord Monboddo-Dr Schultz of Hamburgh.
Case of John Baptist Negretti.-Cases reported by
Ritter-Major Elliot--Dr Dyce of Aberdeen-Dr
Abercrombie of Edinburgh. . .
-
27
260
6
293
309
323
336
CONTENTS. ix
Canvas XVIII.-General observations. Case of Cata-
lepsy at the Hospital della Vita, Bologna. Case at
the Jervis-Street Hospital, Dublin, reported by Mr
Ellis. . . . . . _ 353
Cmuvrzn XIX.-Extraordinary case of Jane C. Rider,
in America, reported by Dr Belden. . . 366
Cusvmn XX.-Case of the devotional ecstasis, in South
Ainerica, reported by M. de St Hilaire. Westmin-
ster Review.
i
.... 385
PREFACE
'ro 'ran
FIRST EDITI ON.
_._.i_;.._
1'17is not without considerable hesitation, and
great diiiidence, that I venture to submit the folf
lowing pages to public notice.
The subject is, in a
great measure, foreign to
my usual avocations, and was originally taken up
merely as a matter of curiosity, although it after-
wards swelled, in my estimation, into no small im-
portance. Conscious, however, as I necessarily
must be, of my own
great deficiency in the requi-
site knowledge of those sciences which are most
calculated to elucidate the particular object of my
present researches, I have long felt an anxious de-
sire that some individual, better qualified hy his
professional pursuits, and in every other respect
more_ competent, had been induced to undertake
the task which has now devolved on me. But see-
xii Pal: FACE 'ro 'run
ing no immediate prospect of the fulfilment of this
hope, and having been frequently applied to, both
by professional gentlemen and others, for informa-
tion, I have, at length, felt myself almost compelled
to exhibit a concise view of the progress which has
hitherto been made towards the elucidation of this
obscure but most interesting subject; for the reader
will soon
perceive, that this could not have been
satisfactorily accomplished in mere casual and in-
terrupted conversation. Indeed, it is almost im-
possible for any one to comprehend a
great many
particulars, which it is yet necessary not to overlook,
Without having either himself carefully madeex-
periments, or witnessed-at least attentively stu-
died-those made by others. p
Fortunately, the kindness of a most respected
friend, whose active and enlightened mind is con-
stantly alive to the interests _of literature and
science, has recently supplied me with an admir-
ahle__opportunity_ of introducing the subject to the
notice of the British public, by communicating to
me the late,-Report of the Magnetic Experiments
made by a Committee of the Medical Section of
the Royal Academy of France. I felt that I
had now
nothing more todo, than to lay this im-
portant document before my, countrymen, accom-
panied by such an historical and explanatory in-
troduction, as might enable those, who had not
mass' Enrrlou. xiii
hitherto paid any attention to the uhject, to com-
prehend its details! y
This subject ought to be peculiarly interesting
to the medical profession, as well as to the philo-
sopher in general. If the vast variety of facts,
which have been graduallyaccumulating during the
last half century, can be considered as
satisfactorily
substantiated, the force of the evidence in favour
of Animal Magnetism-or by whatever other name
we may choose to distinguish that peculiar species
of sympathetic influence which has long been so
called--becomes absolutely irresistiblel And if
these facts be true, and not entirely supposititious
and delusive, it cannot be denied that they are cal-
culated to open up many new and most important
views in medical and physiological science -in-
deed, in the whole philosophy of the human mind.
Ever since the time of that singular compound
of genius and folly, Paracelsus, physicians in ge-
neral seem to have been in the habit of relying
too exclusively upon the emcacy of the chemical re-
medies, to the almost entire neglect of many simple
and natural, though equally eliicacious, sanative
processes, especially those powerful psychical in-
'
This Report, so far as I am aware, has not been published
in France. A determinate number of copies, however, were li.
thographed for the use of the members of the Academy; and
from one of these the translation has been -made.
kiv rnaracn 'ro THE
fluences, which appear to have been known and
employed in ancient times, and which are deve-
loped with such prodigious efect, in the magnetic
treatment. Thus, for example, inpcases of epilepsy
and other spasmodic diseases, the regular practi-
tioner would perhaps prescribe the internal admi-
nistration of lunar caustic, ammoniate of copper,
or some other dangerous drug; whereas, the mag-
etic doctor would cure the patient as speedily, as
e
ectually, and probably more
safely, by means of
a few simple, and apparently insignificant manipu-
lations. This is a circumstance which surely de-
serves the serious attention of the profession; the
more
especially, as, should it still continue to be
neglected by the regular physician, the treatment
runs the risk of being unskilfully practised, and
probably abused, by the empiric. *
This country has produced many eminent phy-
sicians, distinguished for their learning, their ta-
lents, and their liberalityrf- Of late, however, our
medical men seem liable to the reproach of having
'
This truth was fully exemplified during the earlier practice
of Anim: Magma" in France.
"
Eadem namque subjecti subtilitas et varietas, quae magnum
medendi facultatém praebet, sic etiam magnam aberrandi facili-
tatem."-.BAcox.
-1- I trust, however, that we have no reason, in our days, to
say with Hippocntes, Medieifama quédam et nomim multi, re au-
tam at opera valdo pauoi. ,
FIRST EDITION. XV
almost entirelyneglectedthe most important labours
of their professional brethren upon the Continent.
The interesting and instructive works of Sprengel,
Reil, Treviranus, Gmelin, Wienholt, Autenrieth,
and many others, are known only to a few; and
when any mention happens to be made of the subject
of Animal Magnetism, it is atbest received with an
ignorant ridicule, or with a
supercilious reference
to the superseded report of the French Commis-
sioners in 1784; as if nothing had been done, since
that period, towards a. more
profound experimen-
tal investigation and improvement of the magnetic
treatment-
But it is evident that our
physicians cannot long
remain ignorant of these matters, without falling
greatly behind the nge in respect to professional
acquirements. To them, therefore, I would re-
spectfully, but earnestly, recommend a scientific
and impartial inquiry into the subject. They are
unquestionably the most competent to the investi-
gation, the most interested in its result, and the
best qualified to render the discovery-provided
they shall be ultimately satisfied that it really is
a
discovery -most conducive to the interests of
science, and to the public welfare. At all events,
they ought no longer to betray utter ignorance up-
on a
subject which has long been handled in almost
every physiological text-book upon the Continent.
xvi PREFACE. _
Within the limits which I had prescribed to my-
self in this publication, it was found quite impos-
sible fully to elucidate all the details of this inte-
resting subject. This would have required, at the
least, a
large volume. All that I proposed to my-
self, therefore, at this time, was merely to give
such an
introductory notice of
this discovery, as
might prepare the reader, in some
degree, for a
more serious study of its nature and principles,
and of the evidence by which its reality is sup-
ported. Should the pre ent trivial publication at-
tract any remarkable share of attention, additional
information can
easily be communicated hereaf-
ter.
Eonuwnou,
l5th April 1833.
( xvii )
PREFACE
'ro 'mu
SECOND EDITION.
WHEN the First Edition of this Inquiry was
published, I was
perfectly aware of thegross igno-
rance that prevailed, in this country, upon the sub-
ject of its contents, and of the prejudices I should
probably encounter, and the ridicule to which I
might expose myself, in attempting to recommend
it to the serious notice of philosophers. Having
occasionally bestowed a good deal of attention up-
on Animal Magnetism, however, during a-period
of more than twenty years; having oarefnllyin-
vestigated its origin ~and'prog1'ess, perused all the
most -important works which treated of its prin-
ciples, explained its practice, and established the
reality of its operation ; and, moreover, having-made
a few successful experiments in order to satisfy
vox.. 1. b
xviii PREFACE 'ro 'run
myself with regard to the truth of the facts and
the alleged edicacy of' the processes; I felt myself,
in some measure, qualified to communicate to
others an
adequate portion of' information upon this
interesting but neglected subject. Accordingly, I
had long determined to publish a short account of
the di covery, provided I found a favourable oppor-
tunity, and was not anticipated by any other more
competent individual. My object, I thought, would
be amply attained, if' I should only succeed in at-
tracting public attention, and in exciting a
spirit
of investigation in more influential quarters. Per-
'haps the
very circumstances that, asan individual,
'I was altogether unconnected with the medical
profession, and otherwise unattached to any parti-
cularphilosopliical sect, and, consequently, could
have no conceivable interest in the establishment
or refutation of' the statements to be made or the
doctrines to be propounded, might operate as an
assurance that I should divest myself' of all scien-
tific prejudices, and treat the subject as an honest
and zealous, although an humble, inquirer after
truth. Indeed, I had no philosophical theory to
recommend to the favourable notice of the public;
my sole object was to solicit their earnest and un-
biassed attention to a class of' 'very curious but
hitherto much neglected facts, which I deemed of
more than ordinary importance, and of' the truth
snconn nnrrlou. xix
of which every competent inquirer might satisfy
himself, as I had done, by study and experiment.
But, notwithstanding the apparent simplicity
of my project, I could not avoid feeling that, in
carrying my determination into' effect, -
I should
have many serious difliculties and disadvantages' to
contend with. The subject--at least in its scien-
tific relations--was new in this country, and al-
most, if not entirely unknown to the great majo-
rity of those to whom I should have to
address
myself: and, besides, so far as causes are concerned,
it was
by no means of easy explanation. Probably
few, if any men of
scientific pursuits, in this king-
dom, Were
prepared for a serious investigation of
the details to be submitted to their udgment. The
terms, too, by which the doctrine has hitherto been
designated, savoured of mysticism, with which, in-
deed, it had been generally-at one time, perhaps,
not altogether unjustly-associated; while the very
extraordinary character of the facts to be adduced
must almost necessarily have caused them to be
viewed with the utmost suspicion and scepticism,
at least, if not treated with absolute ridicule. From
the gentlemen of_ the medical profession, whose
opinion would naturally have much _weight 'with
the inexperienced public, I had, for obvious reasons,
nothing to hope, hut, at the utmost, an armed neu-
trality; although it was
principally in a deficient
XX PREFACE T0 THE
knowledge of the technical lore peculiar to their
craft, that I felt my own weakness and want of
support* The celebrated Report of the French
Academicians, in 17841-to which I shall have oc-
casion to advert hereafter-had nearly banished
Animal Magnetismnfrom the *territory of science,
consigned it to the realms of imagination and de-
lusion, and presented formidable obstacles to its
restoration, by erecting a
strong barrier of preju-
° This neutrality, so far as I am aware, has been pretty strict-
ly observed, and I may even venture to confess my obligations
for the polite attention I have experienced from several of the
junior, and consequently most unprejudiced and most inquisi-
tive, members of the profession. I cannot help expressing some
surprise, however, that the subject should have been viewed by
medical men, in general, with such an
apparently listless and
apathetic indifference. Upon due inquiry (and this is all I ask
for), they would find a number of very extraordinary and high-
ly interesting facts, adduced upon the most incontrovertihle evi-
dence, to which suliicient attention has not been hitherto paid.
These liicts are most important to medical science, and ought to
be seriously investigated. To this investigation they ought to
be the most competent; and by neglecting it, theyjust leave a
wide door open to quaclrery, besides depriving themselves of ad-
ditional means of being useful to society, and, by abandoning
the sclentihc study of their profession, becoming little better
than mere empirlcs.
I must embrace this opportunity of retuming my grateful
thanks to the gentlemen connected with the medical periodical
press, for the candour and courtesy with which they treated my
former hasty and very imperfect production, and for the indul.
gence they shewed towards the many errors into which my ig-
norance ol' their science must necessarily have betrayed me.__
Veniam pctinnu donuuque vicistim.
snconn osnrrxon. xxi
dice against all further inquiry. -Any attempt,
subsequently made, to re-introduce the subject to
public notice, must have been regarded as
imply-
ing a preference' of private investigation and indi-
vidual judgment, to the apparently solemn, delibe-
rate and authoritative decision of a celebrated
scientific body. Besides, the names of the greater
number of those individuals-however respectable
or
distinguished among their own fellow-citizens-
who'had made Animal Magnetism the object of
their researches upon the Continent, and given
their countenance to that 'mode of treatment as a
sanativeprocess, were almost entirely unknown in
this country, and, consequently, could have carried
little weight along with them, if authority only
were to be depended upon.
-
»
~
In more recent times, however,--fiortunatelyi for
my projected undertaking,-a Committee consist--
ing of some of the most distinguished members of
one of those scientific societies, which had formerly
pronounced a
judgment so
apparently unfavourable
in this interesting matter-the Royal Academy of
Medicine at Paris-have framed a new
Report up-
on the subject, founded upon numerous
experi-
ments, which may be fairly considered'-as having
now
superseded the former Report of the Commis-
sioners appointed in 1784, and thus placed Animal
Magnetism upon a
footing of respectability, by
xxii Pannca 'ro 'rua
conferring upon its study, at length, the sanction
of that learned body. While the original Commis-
sioners had formerly-+-in thevery infancy of the
inquiry-in the days of comparative ignorancee-
prematurely condemned the doctrine and practice.
of Animal Magnetismas delusive and dangerous;
a recent Committee of competent persons, appoint-
ed from among their own
body by one of the most
learned cientific societies in Europe, have now,
with far more
ample and more mature knowledge
of the subject, with an
infinitely larger body' of
evidence before them, and with a
praiseworthy zeal
tempered with a
truly philosophical caution, re-in-
vestigated the facts, reviewed the question, and
found reason to reverse the hasty and inconsiderate
sentence of their predecessors!
It is curious, and by no means uninstructive, to
'
Dr Bertrand states it as an important fact, that, in the dis-
cussions which preceded the recent investigation and Report by
the Royal Academy of Medicine, there was scarcely one mem-
ber who opposed the proposition _for a new examination, who
did not, at-the same time, admit that magnetism exerts a real ac-
tion on the animal economy. This affords one instance among
many of the irrational inconsistency of some of the opponents of
Animal Magnetism. They pretend to admit the existence of
the agent, while they obstinately 166186 to investigate the rea-
lity of the phenomena by which alone its emcacy can be demon-
strated,
Nonnulli, new mama mmeaganda, mum: opinioni parm ag-
navi nwowmbunt, quam erplorandd wrilatc periinaoi diligentid per.
.uwrare
volunt--1VlntU1';_Fln1x.
sncoun Enrriou. xxiii
observe the ditferent reception which these two re-
ports respectively met with in the scientific world.
The former, with all its numerous faults, imperfec-
tions, inconsistencies, and contradictions on its
head, was, at once, almost universally hailed, by
the professional physician and the philosopher, with
the highest satisfaction and applause, as conclusive
with regard to the reality, the merit, and the uti-
lity of an
alleged important discovery, which had
begun to disturb the calmness of their scientific
repose. The latter has been viewed with suspi-
cion and distrust, and treated with censure, con-_
tumely and ridicule, because it has opened up an
obnoxious but highly interesting discussion; al-
though this last Committee, carefully avoiding the
controversial example of their predecessors, have
merely laid before their brethren the result of their
own experiments 'and observations, without one
word of argument, or a
single allusion to theory.
This affords one instance, among many, of the ex-
treme reluctance which is felt by philosophers to
allow their partial convictions to be unsettled by
new
lights, and of the great diiliculty of procuring
a favourable reception for doctrines which are ob-
jectionable only because they are deemed to be in-
compatible with preconceived notion .
Were we even to go the length of holding ,that
these two apparently conilicting Reports neutra-
xxiv Purses 'ro 'run
lised each other-which, however, would be un-
fair, considering the very different situation and
opportunities of the two Commissions, as well as
the spirit by which they seem to have been respec-
tively actuated-we should still be left in posses-
sion of the whole of the facts elicited by both Com-
mittees, together with all the other overwhelming
evidence brought out by the numerous
investiga-
tions of many competent and credible individual
iuquirers, in support of the reality of Auinnl
netism. Indeed, the last Report of the French
Academicians contains but an incousiderable frag-
ment of the evidence in the case. So true is this,
that even were the Rqaort in -question--however
valuable as an
auxiliary, as'
expressing the decided
conviction, after the most anxious, the most ample,
the most able and deliberate inquiry, of some of
the most eminent scientific physician in Europe-
were this Report, Isay, at this moment anuihilated
and forgotten, the most important facts which it
recognises could, nevertheless, be established, in
the most satisfactory manner, by evidence alto-
gether independent of it, as I trust I shall be en-
abled to shew in the sequel. Nay, in this doeu-
ment, someef the most remarkable phenomena
which occasionally occur in the magnetic practice,
as will be seen hereafter, are
scarcely even adverted
to. In one of view, -at least, this last Report
SECOND EDITION. XXV
unquestionably possesses a decided superiority over
the former. It is limited to the Facts alone which
fell under the observation of the reporters, and
cautiously avoids all doubtful, perplexing, and un-
satisfactory theories!
I am
quite aware that a great many of the facts
to which I shall have occasion to solicit the atten-
tion of the reader, especially when I come to treat
'
Those ingenious persons who vainly imagine that they have
demolished Animal Magnetism, when they have merely uttered
some foolish quibbles, jokes, or invectivee against the last Be-
port of the French Academicians, ought to be made aware that
they have not attempted, far less accomplished, one thousandth
part of their necessary labours. They must proceed to examine
and refute the voluminous works of 'Doctors Wienholt, Olbers
(the astronomer), Treviranus, Heinecken, Gmelin, Brandis,
Passavant, Kluge, Ennemoser, Ziermann, &c. ; of Professors
Kieser, Eschenmayer, Nasse, Nees von Esenbeck, &.c.; of MM.
de Puysegur, Tardy de Montravel, Deleuze, de Lausanne,
Roullier, Chardel, Fillassier, &c. They must invalidate the
whole facts brought forward in these works, and in the vari-
ous periodical and other publications which have appeared upon
this subject, and prove that their authors were and are fools or
lrnaves and liars; for all of them speak of what they assert to
have witnessed. Moreover, they must refirte Nature herself;
and demonstrate that, according to all the known principles of
science, she is an arraut quack and impostor, and utterly un..
worthy of the slightest degree of credit, when'she pretends to
act in opposition to established notions. In attempting this
arduous and very laudable tak, I may admire their boldnes,
but cannot promise them success. Yet until they have done
all this, they must not be allowed to boast of having relllted
Animal Magnetism.
VOL. I. C
xxvi sltnncn 'ro 'run
of the higher phenomena of Animal Magnetism,
are of a
very- extraordinary character-upon the
iirst view, perhaps, altogether incredible;-such, in
short, as
' ' '
"
May gratify our
curioslty,`
'
"
But ought not to necessitate belie£"
_
The evidence adduced in support of the reality of
these facts, I freely admit, must be thoroughly
sifted, and carefully examined, and accurately
weighed-#must be ascertained to be of the most
ample, the most unsuspicious, the most cogent and
irresistible nature--before their existence can be
generally admitted. But a rational, a
philosophi-
cal scepticism can be allowed to go' no farther than
this, however extraordinary, however incomprehen-
sible the facts themselves may appear to be. That
an individual, for example, incertaincircu tances,
in a
peculiar state of the organism, should be able
to see, or, at least, should appear to us to exercise
the faculty of vision, at the pit of thsmmach, the
palms of the hands, or the points of the fingers, is,
no- doubt, mo t extraordinary, quite inconsi tent
with common "experience, and incompatible with
the principles of all established science-some,
perhaps, will exclaim,
'
Marvellous ! -impossible l*
'
Vcici leur jargon : Cela est faux, impossible, absurde!
Eh! combien y a t-il de choses lesquellea pour un temps, nous
uvons rejetées avec risées comme impossibles, que nous avons été
contrulnts d'avouer aprés, et encore passer outre A d'autres plus
slcoun l:m'r1oN. xxvii
But the phenomenon,~ when its reality has 'once been
established, =and its conditions ascertained, hy~satis-
factory and irréfragable eyidence--when once we
are assurcdtlhtitisafpositivelnaturalfast-thephe-
nomenon, 1 say, howvsverextvaoldinary and remote
fmmcommonfaxpsriencefit may~he,\is nomoremi-
raeulouson incredibleydianthatthesame individual;
in different ciroumshnees, in the- ordinary- stated'
the organism, should-see with -his eyes. -|We are see
apt to judge of the reality offthingrby theix-#mon
hmiliar exsernul appearances, -and,-.foegetting fthe
fins 8»P"iIllI(f1b()l'd=Bl(!0'|l§Jt0I expect that Nature
will alwaysaccommodate her operations toonlvpees
eonceived notions-of-possibility, aud»dap¢.h¢r_ph¢.
nomenawto our drbitrary systems of philosophy. ='-In
ar ,curtains sense, indeed, f
'universal mature may~»be
said tofoenstitute one-grand and incomprehensible
miracle ofTBivine Power. -
Im our present ordinary
smtewf |6li$6ll06,*-NVQ are-permitted to see'
only
"ns -through a»
glass-Adarkly." ;We are
yetfcon-
fessedlyignorant=of x
-many 'of the powers and pro-
cesses of nature,-as==well =ae=of' the -
causes- to 'which
theyare'to-heaseribed. "
We are, therefore,-'noten-
titled~toprescribe~ limits to heroperations, and' to
sayto her;Ethertosl|alt-thou go, andnofarther. We
must- -adv presume to assign bounds to the 'exercise
Jn-mged. ¢'Et, in reboun; comblen d'autres nous ont été comme
articles de foi, et puis vains mensonges I-Ciunow, Ds Ia Sa-
geue. Liv. I.
_
'
xxviii PREFACE 'ro 'run-1
of the power of the Almighty; nor are
these ope-
rations and that power to he controlled by the ar-
bitrarytheories and capricious fancies of man. To
borrow the language ofan old and eloquent English
author, "'
The ways of God in nature, 'as in pro-
vidence, are not as our
ways: 'Nor are the models
that we frame any way commensurate to the vast-
ness, profundity, and unsearchableness of His
works, which have a depth in them greater than
the well of Democritu ."'
'
In this age Qfintellect, it seems, we have become
much' too enlightened to believe in miracles, and
yet we are constantly surrounded by miracles; for,
essentially, every thing in nature is a miracle. The
human eye, with its power of vision, which is
placed in intimate and immediate connexion with
the'sonl,` i a miracle ; :and so of the otherasenses.
The motion of the muscles at the command of _the
will is a most
astonishing and incomprehensible
miracle. The regular return of the seasons, the
fertility of the earth, the origin and nature of man,
the millions of worlds around us, and their unvaried
revolution , the' principle of gravitation, the phe-
nomena of electro-magnetism, 8vc.+all these things
are miracles, which do not owe their existence and
preservation to themselves, but depend upon de-
termined law assigned them by that great, _omni-
' `
5
Joseph Glanvill.
sscoun EDITION. xxix
scient, and omnipotent Being by whom _they were
originally created. But because they are universal
and continually' recurring, they no_longer appear
to us as miracles; all this has become so natural to
ns, that we conclude it could not have been other-
wise than it is. But do these miracles, which per-
vade all nature, 'cease to be miracles, because they
are common to all existence? They are still
miracles, only subject tocertaiu laws which are
generally recognised. Hence it comes, that.we
only consider as a miracle whatever appears to _u
to deviate from these general laws, anddoes not
seem to coincide with the other common
phenomena.
For instance, were the exalted psychical powers of
some individuals, such as the clairvoyavwe of som-
nambulists, a
property common to all men in ge-
neral, nobody would consider it as miraculous,
but as an endowment conferred by nature upon. all
mankind. Exceptions, deviations from a
general
rule, however, are
disputed and denied, unles they
become as obvious to the senses as the influence of
the magnet, which we
recognise when -it attracts
iron, althoughwe do not comprehend its cause.
Nature supplies us with facts, and of these men
form theories and systems by. means of a' more or
less perfect process of generalization. But, unfor-
tunately, in the course of time, these theories are
permitted to supersede nature, our
systems are
XXX.
'
PREFACE T0 THE
completed, =-and f:thencefonward~ we :become obsti-
natelyfindisposed-to admit the reality of -amy fact,
however clearly demonstrated, which does=not fall
within 0IH°u08¢Ull1l8l.l6d generaljlaws.
We-know e number of instances in which wounds
and diseases have' been .eured_~by sympathy.; _but
may personsp-who
=
are
:sceptics
-
imsnegardffto _ali
other superfsensible phenomena;-.do,not hesihteto
deny all2suclvfeH`ec|s =of'= sympathy;folifwhich'Jtl|oy1
have not wbcenv witnesses, or-~ which: theyw have
not themselves sexperienceds.. Others :have had
a~presentinent»of» certain events which ~. has -been
suhequently
'
verified in the -
'most wonderful fmauw
ner.
Thesefipersoes profess their beliefwin suclt
presentimemsgibut 'rejectthe indueneenf-sympathy,
thesclairvognnce of som nambnlistsyand other extras
ordinaryphenomena. T But if= the one be true,ethe-
otlsers'are,~'at~least, possible; and experience must'
determine the reality of both. ~
Now; the reality-of
the"extnordinary~phenomena alluded »to,- =
as shall
hereafter: be shawn, has been demonstrated-by suchi
satisfactory evidencease* must put even -the most'
obstinate scepticismtosilence; and the -most=learu»
edandsfenlightened physicians, `whohave conde-
seenxled: to investigate'the »
subject impartially, -no
longer attempt to deny facts which either they
themselves, or others., have hequently witnessed,
and which incontrovertibly prove that there are
sncorm nnrrrou.; xxfxi
hidden powers in the human constitution, which
are
capable of being developed on
particular occa-
sions, and under favourable circumetancesnand.
which the ignorant _then gazeuponas miracles#
It has hitherto been too much the custom with
all the zealous partinansand apostles ,of, new doe-
trines and systems,of science, _however suspicious
or fanciful, to make'a clamorous *md impatient, .and
often very unreasonable, appeal to the faith or cre-,
dulity of the public. I have too high _an opinion
of the eandour of,
my readers, and t00 much .respect
for their intelligence, to make any such appeal upon
the present occasion. Firm, indeed,_as ismy own
individual conviction of thereality and importance
of the facts I am about to submit to theconsidera-
tion of the public, I do not now, I never did, and
never shall, call upon any one to profess his belief
in them :-
A
_
"
Let me be oensur'd by th' austerest brow,
Where I want art or
judgment, tax me þÿ!G1y
:
Let envious censors, with their broadest eyes,
Look ,through and thsjoughme. I pursue no favour;
Only vouohaafe me your a¢ten!ion."'l'
I merely olicit the patient attention of the honest
and unprejudiced inquirer, and humbly invite him
to read, and reason, and investigate, and request
'
See some striking observations upon this subject in a work
by Professor W. Stilling, entitled: Do: Zucammmbang derSeek
mit der Geiakrwalt. Ludwigsburg, 1834.
1- Ben-Jonson. -
xxxii PREFACE 'ro 'run _
that he will believe nothing but upon the most co-
gent evidence of its truthQ Conviction, when ulti-
mately obtained in this way, will be lessiapt to be
mingled with error-will be more valuable in it-
self; fmore powerful and more
permanent. Let it
be remembered that I am not going toopen up any
new views of religious faith, nor even to expound
any new system of human science; I aiu merely
about to lay before the public a class of very inte-
resting natural facts, which, although many of them
have been occasionally observed during thousands
of years, have hitherto been too much disregarded
by philosophers, and, consequently, still await a
satisfactory elucidation. Should I have occasion
to bring forward any theoretical or
speculative no-
tions upon this subject, it will only be fbr the pur-
pose of exhibiting the analogy that exists between
these facts and other known phenomena of nature,
or of shewing how ingenious men have attempted
to explain things which many appear to be per-
fectly anomalous and inexplicable. I trust, how-
ever, that the intelligent reader will carefully dis-
tinguish between theory and fact, and beware of
permitting the former to withdraw his attention
from the latter. It was
by vigorously attacking
the theories of the first magnetizers, and denying
or
suppressing the facts, or
keeping them in the
back ground, or
misrepresenting and subjecting
SECOND am'r1oN. xxxiii
them to ridicule, that the adversaries of Animal
Magnetism on the Continent so long succeeded in
their opposition to that doctrine, in the face of -daily
experience; and as it is extremely probable that
the same
disingenuous mode of hostility may be at,
tempted upon its first introduction into this coun-
try, weshould be cautiou of allowing ourselves
to lose sight' of the facts, when we have once 'be-
come satisfied of their reality.
I
A
The great book of Nature lies open and acces-
sible to all. Someindividuals may be more, while
others are less, capable of decyphering the charac-
ters in which it is written, and of comprehending,
and duly appreciating, the truths it reveals. But
if we would peruse it with advantage, we must
prepare ourselves for the study, -by previously
shaking off all prepossession. Some, perhaps, have
the misfortune to be naturally blind; but the pro-
verb truly teaches us, that there are none so blind
as those who will not see.* The scepticism of
'
Corte et labor irrihu et nulhu ejéotus, oferre lumen oaco, ser-
nonem mrdo, sapientiam bruto.-Sm' Crraus.
"
It often happens, however, that an object is not seen, from
not knowing how to see it, rather than from any defect in the
organ of vision. Mr Babbage has given a
striking illustration
of this fact; Conversing with Sir John Herschel on the dark
lines observed in the solar spectrum by Frauenhofer, he inquired
whether Mr Babbage had seen them; and on his replying in
the negative, Sir John Herschel mentioned the extreme ditli-
culty he had had, even with Frauenhofer's description in his
hand, and the long time which it had cost him in detecting
xxxiv raamca 'ro fun:
science, which hath certainly rid us of_
many errors,
sometimes repels,_ with too much contempt, .the inf
vestigation of phenomena which it
deems impos-»
sible, _or inconsistent with some _npreiwnceived sys,
tem. But this preoccupationief- the mind is in-
compatible with the enlargedstudy of nature; _and
there Are no
prejudices so diliicult to eradicate,
and, at the same time, so detrimental to the real
progress of useful knowledge, as the prejudices of
self-satisfied and exclusive science,
Although, at this time of day, it may appear
to those conversant with the subject to be some-
thing like a work of supererogation to attempt to
answer, at any great length, the objections formerly
urged by ignorance and prejudice against-the mag-
netic treatment; yet it may be proper to take some
short notice of the most prevalent; the more
espe-
ciallyastheymay happen to be revived in this counf
tryby`personswho are not aware that theyhave been
already repeatedly and most effectually refuted.
them : He then added, ~'
I will prepare the apparatus, and put
you in such a
position 'that they shall be visible, and yet you
shell look forthem and not find them : after which, while you
remain in the same position,-I will instruct you how to an
and you shall see them, and not merely wonder you did not see
them- before, but you shall find it impossible to look upon the
spectrum without seeing them! On looking as he was directed,
notwithstanding the previous warning, Mr Babbage did not see
them; and, after some time, he inquired how they might be
seen, when the prediction of Sir John Herschel was
completely
fulilled."-Tnolns Msnrnr, Charao¢crofLord Bacon,-&c. -
SECOND EDITION. XXXV
In the first place, then, _it was once loudly 'asv
serted by many, and is still faintly repeated by_ a
few,,that` Animal Magnetism is altogether a
system
of mere
quackery and delusion. This objection-e
which might, perhaps,,haye some plausibilityduring
the inlimcy, of-the discoveryf-has now become ut-
terlygludicrous, and betrays either consummate igf
norance of -the subject, or gross dishonesty. _ For
in this assertion it is implied that hundreds .-
of
learned, intelligent and eminent inditfidpals-phy,
philosophers and others-in=vario18 parts
of Europe and at different periods of time, many
of ,them without any personal .knowledge of each
other, and having no immediate communication,
had actually conspired together for the purpose of
palming a
paltry piece of deception upon the scien.
tiiic world ; and that, with this .sole object in view,
they had wantonly sacrificed, notathein: timeland
talents, only, but their character,-_ their- respectabi-
lity and their honour; and all this without the
slightest prospect of advantage to themselves, for
hitherto, ,it is believed, the practice of Animal Mag-I
netism has been by no means a
profitable occupa-
tion. 'And this calumny, be it remembered, is ut-
tered against such men as the Doctors Wienholt#
'
Wienholt, in conjunction with his colleague Dr Olbersv
the celebrated astronomer, successfully employed the magnetic
treatment in a variety of eases where all the ordinary resources
xxxvi PREFACE 'ro 'ram
Olber , Gmelin, Heinecken, Treviranus, Hufeland,
Brandis, Kluge, Passavant, Ennemoser, &c.'; the
Professors Sprengel, Kieser, Eschenmayer, Nasse,
Src.-M. Tardy de Montravel, the Marquis de Puy-
segur, M. Deleuze, M. de Lausanne, M. Chardel,
the Russian Count Panin, Baron de Strombeck,
the nine 'eminent physicians who' subscribed the
recent Report of the French Royal Academy of
Medicine, and hundreds of other intelligent indi-
viduals of the most undoubted respectability. In-
deed, considering the many accompli hed profes-
sional gentlemen who have countenanced this me-
thod of practice, the mere
mooting of such an ob-
jection as this implies a
degree of scepticism which
is utterly ludicrous and absurd. Upon what evi-
dence, I would ask, are we to be permitted to be-
lieve any series of facts? What amount of proof
is required to justify the general introduction of
any new medicine or mode of treatment ? If Ani-
of the medical art had entirely failed to produce any beneficial
effect. The results of this practice were published in four vo-
lumes, which I would earnestly recommend to the attention of
the student of Animal Magnetism. All the other eminent in-
dividuals above mentioned have recorded their iiith in the salu-
tary eifects of the magnetic processes, and in the reality of the
most remarkable phenomena; most of them have written scien-
tific or practical works upon the subject, and those still living,
and belonging to the medical profession, are, I believe, in the
constant habit of employing a mode of treatment, the eiiicacy
of which has been fully demonstrated by experience.
ssconn snrrlou. xxxvii
malt agnetism be an imposture, where shall we
look f r
reality ?
'
_
That quackery may be exhibited here, as in the
regular medical profession, it would be absurd to
deny. Yet we have never heard physicians urge
this circumstance as
an objectionto the practice of
their art. And supposing that _cases occasionally
do occur in which imposture is active, and the phe-
nomena are feigned ;-an hundred such cases could
not affect thetruth of the facts really manifested,
and attested by competent and credible witnesses.
There might be a thousand false sovereigns in cir-
1u}ation ; but he would be rather a
strange logician
who should attempt to prove from thence that there
is no such thing as a
genuine coin of that denomi-
nation. Because there are
many quacks, is there
no such thing in nature as an honest and skilful
physician P Because rogues abound, are there no
honest men ? This, indeed, is rather a singular
argument in the mouth of a medical man, especially
when we reflect that by far the greater number of
the phenomena of Animal Magnetism-have been
elicited by the investigation of regular graduates,
and rest upon medical evidence. Moreover, if me-
dicine be not altogether a
system of quackery, the
very circumstance that the magnetic practice may
give occasion to the exercise of quackery and de-
ception, is one of the very best reasons why honest
zxxviii mance 'ro 'run _
andmespectable professional men should endeavour
to wrest it out of the hands of the empiric, and take
it under their own
protection.
'
In theseeoad place, it liarbeen fargedas ¥an'eb-
jection against thepractice of Animal'
thatfit isfnncertain in its operation. "But it is illo-
gical-to coucludethat, because the 'menetic»treat-
ment 'does not 'invariably produce 1the5de iredeifect,
it his therefore' altogether 'inoperativeand useless.
Certain unknown, perhaps accidental, circumstan-
cesmayvounteraet-its' usual eicacy in particular
instances; indeed,»several of 'these circumstances
have been already discovered and' made known, and
others may be detected upon* farther' experience;
The same thing, however,` it may be observed, some-
times occurs in the ordinary medical practice. The
prescribed medicines do not, upon every occasion,
operate in the precise manner
expected by the phy-
sician; yet, from this circumstance, no -sane
per-
son would attempt to demonstrate the total irrutili-
ty of medicine. -A"'thonsand unprolilic marriages
take place ; =-yet, upon theestrength of thisffact, no
onefwonld befoolish enoughi-to"deny»tl1at. the' mul-
tiplication of -mankind- 'is brought about 'hy the
union of' the sexes. hundred unsuccessful ex-
periments- cannot redargue the evidence 'of' esta-
blished faets. A million 'ef blind persons-will ne-
Vewpmve that"the 'natnral= healthy eyeissightless.
snconn nnrrxon. xxxix
It is quite certain that the magnetic treatment
has -been-successfully employed in many instances
where the ordinary resources of medical skill had
entirely failed to produce any beneficial eiiect; and
in some cnsesfit-is considered cas nearly zrspeciiic.
In the third place, it-has -been ailleged, nndflipon
'apparently high 1¥dth0rity,'that%the9practice of Ani-
maI"Magnetism is dangerousf "Now,l if -by' this
allegation 'it is fmeant' that the' ddminlstrationof
this remedy by unskilful persons, 'andiin improper
circumstances, 'may 'be dttended with dangeious
consequences; fthe objection»'m|1ste be '
admitted.
Buthete, thefolijeetion--equally to
the ordinafy medical practice. ¢5May not'the=same
thing be said 'of the"imprudent administration -of
opinm, of =arsenie,» of fbxglove, foffmercury,-or» of
any other medicinal drug? Nay; i§'it`~not=equa]ly
applicable to the' -unskilful use ioii -surgical 'instru-
ments? The best -medicines, it; hes been said, and
probably with xesson;=are pcisohsfim the *hands of
the imprudent; whereas, 'the strongest poisons-are
iiedicines, when oautiodsly administered by the ex-
lpuiencediphysician. '
it/'is implied-inf this
objection,'that' the trestment in dues-pros
Qncdsomeieffeets yfafndfthisxddmission; on the part
of its most' strhnuotivopponents;-is eizceedinglyva;
lame. »In sh<m;l¢uis<c»j¢¢¢i<m1is whdlly founded
cpcnwhe argument 'ab :he
xl Panracnz 'ro THE
abuse tothe use of any article whatever; and it
has therefore no force when directed against Ani-
mal Magnetism in particular. But it affords ano-
ther powerful reason for taking the practice out of
the hands of the empiric, and confiding it entirely
to the intelligent and skilfixl physician._
Fire and water are
dangerous and destructive
elements; but would we bahish them entirely from
the universe, lest we should be burnt or
drowned ?
The elements of the unceasing activity of nature
will continue to exist, whatever hort-sighted_mor-
tals, in their spurious wisdom, may be pleased to
determine in regard to them. Let us
,study the
properties, the relations, the powers of these tre-
mendous elements; and so shall we best learn to
use them with advantage, and to protect ourselves
from their injurious effects. , .
-
_
Objections, such as I have now
briefly noticed,
were, for a considerable period, urged against the
practice of Animal Magnetism upon the Continent,
and perhaps with some shew of reason, so
long as
it was exercised principally by unprofessional, ig-
norant, and, it may be, unprincipled persons, and
intimately associated with absurd mystical theories.
But the circumstances are now
entirely changed.
The mind of every competent andconscientious
inquirer was at length completely overwhelmed by
the irresistible force of the evidence of the facts
sncosn EDITION. _
xli
accumulated by experience; a number of eminent
physicians adopted and improved the treatment,
and subjected the phenomena to a more scientific
investigation; the doctrine assumed a more
philo-
sophical form; and the objections alluded to, hav-
ing now become utterly ludicrous and contemptible
.when viewed in opposition to the facts, were ulti-
mately abandoned by every enlightened antagonist
of the system. So far as I am aware, there is now,
upon the Continent, no
longer any question regard-
-ing the reality of Animal Magnetism as a fact, at
least among those who have thoroughly investigat-
ed the subject, and of such alone I speak; that
question has been completely set at rest by a vast
multitude of well-conducted and decisive experi-
ments; the only points still controverted relate to
the causes to which the eifects ought to be ascribed,
and to the etlicacy and utility of the treatment;-
in short, the question is now reduced to one of
theory alone, and here, it must be confessed, there
is much scope for speculation.
That one human being, in .certain circumstances,
and under certain conditions, is capable of pro-
ducing a very perceptible, and, in some instances,
a most remarkable eifect upon the organism of an-
other, by the exertion of some hitherto unknown,
and consequently inexplicable influences, either
vox.. 1. d
fxlii ,
Pssmcs 'ro 'ras
physical or
psyohieal, zn°:botlv'eombined»~L-for. this
has='not> been 'precisely>ascer1ained'-has- been fre-
quentlyasserted as a fact;-in azreientmnd in mo-_
denlxtimes. Many instaaoesef it are
upon >recovd';
and this ~faot;' upomwhateverf
principles fit :maymk
tiniatelybe found to depend; hascnowfbeen' esta#-
blishedf' beyond the 'possibility got' :rational doubt,
byfthe 'result of t
the proceseeef-of Animal- Magnes-
tismt, Itris a fact; however,.which has probably
been believed' by»Vmany~without. .s11ihcient=.inquiry,
and -certainlyxejeeted# by others without anymdef
quate- or
satisfactory investigationf The apparent
mystery which envelopea~:the»suhject~is well caleu~
lated to.feed credulity in- some, and to generate
sceptioisxmin' others ;-in; either cases.
erecting a
barrier~~.aga.inst'all- sober- and seientific'.inq,uiry.
The~only'persens'who» are entitled .to havesan auf
thoritative voice in the .decision of a
question- of
this= natureflare-either suclras have themselves
made an
adequate experimental, investigation, or
such as have carefully studied the-subject, and»im»
partiallyweighed the-whole evidence. _
From _such
competentjudges, Animal. Magnetism has nothing
tof apprehend. The phenomenzralleged to haven-v
suited from- the magnetic practice are either true,
or some hundred of enlightened and respectable
individuals, otherwise of unimpeachable veracity,
have, in this instance, been guilty of the most
snconn nnxrrou; xliii
daring and unparalleled effrontery-of the'most.
wanton, gratuitous, and abominable falsehood;
while many thousands of sober and sensible men,
most of them» originally sceptical in regard tp the
facts, have permittedthemselves to be imposed up-
on
by the grossest delusion; and this, too, in cases
where deception appears to have been impossible,
or, if possible, could be productive of no imagin-
able advantage, and was, besides, of easy detection.
Moreover, almost every individual may have an
op-
portunityofverifying these phenomena, for his own
particular satisfaction, by complying with the re~
quisite conditions. In short, an obstinate denial
of the reality of these facts, in the face of all the
evidence, is not only irrational in itself, but would
annihilate-the grounds of all philosophical belief,
and tear up all science by the roots.
There is one particular method of treating novel
facts, which appear hostile to established theories
or
systems of science, to which I would briedy call
the attention of the reader, although it is perhaps
due most dangerous of any, because apparently the
most rational, and certainly the most plausible of
all. I think it right, indeed, to put the honest in-
quirer- upon his guard against all those specious
and sophistical practices, which tend to perpetuate
ignorance and error, and to prevent or retard the
advancement of truth. The method to which I
xliv Paenen 'ro 'rua
now allude, is that by which "a clever but disinge-
nuous writer, with a very superficial knowledge,
or no knowledge at all, of a particular subject,
resting upon principles generally conceived to have
been already sutliciently established, combines his
powers of wit and, ridicule, with every species of
tortuous sophistry, and brings the whole battery
to bear against doctrines which he deems incom-
patible with received notions. He feels his ad-
vantage in combating new
opinions, and arguing
on the side of the many against the few. His
object is victory, not truth ; and he knows that the
more he can
perplex and darken the subject, the
better chance he bas to profit by the obscurity.
He is quite an
adept in the art of distorting facts,
and perverting arguments, of making a false ap-
plication of known principles, and of contriving to
throw an air of ridicule over the most serious sub-
jects. Never wa the Sphynx more captions in
her enigmas, than such an antagonist in his pro-
positions. He knows how to give them a form
which may impose upon the soundest logic. He
himself contrives to assume the appearance of as
good logician: he attacks with vigour-he evades
with address; and when arguments fail him, he
has recourse to wit. From a
consequence which
is just, and which he places in the strongest and
fairest light, he passes to a number-_pf other con~
sr-:corm Enrrxou. xlv
clusions, which are utterly false, but which he
knows how to clothe inthe same colours with the
first. By means of this disguise, they pass cur-
rent in the train, like well counterfeited coin, and
are believed to be of the same nature, and of the
same value. When hard pressed by unanswerable
arguments, he squirts out a
profuse quantity of
inky matter around him, and, like the cuttle-fish,
makes his escape amidst the obscurity. Some-
times, too, a vigorous sarcasm astounds the reader,
and extricates the writer from a serious embarrass-
ment, occasioned by the invincible opposition of
some tubborn, unmanageable, and insuperable
facts: like Hannibal, who, when arrested in his
march by the rocks of the Alps, is said to have em-
ployed vinegar to dissolve them, and thus cleared a
passage for his army. Such a writer securely relies
upon having all the ignorant and indolent upon hi
side, and, accordingly, addresses himself principally
to those who are
dispo ed to mistake wit for argu-
ment, and ridicule for refutation-to those who,
at all times, would rather he amused than instruct-
ed. But I need not enlarge any farther upon this
method-which, when skilfully employed, is_ ex-
ceedingly effective-because it is in very general
use, and many admirable specimens of it are to be
found in our modern reviews. I trust, however,
that the majority, at least, of those to whom this
xlvi Bannon 'ro Tux:
publication is addressed, possess too much intel-
lectual discernment to be imposed upon by sophis-
try of this description, or to accept of an argument,
a sneer, or a sarcasm, as a suflicient refutation of
a demonstrated fact. Let them remember that
Veritas non est de ratibne faceti ; or, to borrow the
words.of_ the English poet,
'
"
Reason is ill refuted with a sneer."
I am aware it may very naturally occur to the
reader, that the topics I have undertaken to inves-
tigate in the following pages, would have been
treated with much more scientific and technical
skill and precision, and with much greater felicity
of illustration, by some intelligent member of the
medical profession, than by an individual who must
be presumed to be little conversant with the cog-
nate departments of knowledge. Nay, I may per-
haps be reminded of the very judicious advice of
the poet,
_ _
,
," quid est
Pertractent medici; tractent fabrllia fabri."
Now, I have not the slightest hesitation in amply
acknowledging, as I deeply feel, my own deficien-
cies in,the ,essential _qualifications requisite for the
adequate'performanoeof the task I have, perhaps too
arrogantly, undertaken; and, had I observed a
dispo-
sition on the ;part of any gentleman of professional
sscoun EDITION. xlvii
education, in this country,to take up and investigate
the subject, to communicate the result of his _intel-»
ligent and impartial inquiries, and to add his ac-
knowledged acquisitions to the already accumu-
lated treasures of science, I should unquestionably
never have presumed to obtrudemyself upon pub-
licnotice as an expounder of the apparent myste-
ries of Magnetism; but, on the contrary,
I should have been most happy _.to withdraw from
the field, and abandon the task to
hands more skil-
fulthan mine. But,I regret having; been at length
compelled toerelinquish all hope of any such pro-
fessional and unprqiu,diced investigation. I am
sorry tohave found the.mediosl.geutlemen in Great
Britain, with a
very few honourable exceptions,
divideqlinto-,two classes in relation to this interest-
ing. study.. The, one. iscomposed of individuals
who placezthemselves in an attitude of determined
hostility, resolved, it would; appear, not even to
listen to facts, far_ less to be convinced by reason-
individuals whose.object,it .seems to be, not only to
render their own minds impenetrable to all rational
conviction, but to endeavour to argue,to frighten,
or- tcuidicule the rest of mankindout of the use of
their natural_faoult.ies-to persuade them to shut
their eyes, to close their ears, and to steel their
understandings against the admission of even the
evidence of truth, and to resign themselves impli»
xlviii PREFACE 'ro 'run
citly, like true ,Catholics, _to all the prejudices of
foreclosed science. The other class consists of
such as look upon the whole details of the subject
with a listless and apathetic indifference, and whom
it seems in vain to attempt to rouse out of that
state of torpor and inanition-that more than mag-
netic sleep-into which they have permitted them-
selves to ink, as into a slough Qfdespond.
It is not easy to discover the cause of this most
extraordinary hostility and indiiference, unless,
perhaps, we
may ascribe it to that propensity of
the mind, which, after a certain routine of study
ahd labour, indispo es it for the reception of new
truths, which are
supposed to stand in opposition
to previous acquirements. The ubject itself is
sufficiently curious and interesting, and worthy of
the most seriou investigation; and it is diicult to
imagine how any class of men, professing a love
for the pursuits of science, and possessing every
facility for extending their knowledge in an im-
portant department, can look with coldness upon
an overwhelming mass of accumulated evidence,
which has already forced complete conviction up-
on the minds of thousands of the most learned and
enlightened individuals in Europe, and promisesto
open up many new and most interesting views in
the philosophy of man. It is well known to all
who are conversant with the subject, that, upon
ssconn snrrion. xlix
the Continent, the record in this case, to use a le-
gal phrase, has long been closed, and a favourable
judgment pronounced by the learned; and the only
oppugners of the doctrine of Animal Magnetism
are now to be found, either among those who are
too supercilious, too indolent, or too prejudiced to
submit to the labour of inquiry; or among such as,
like Zeno and Pyrrho of old, relying upon the
quirks and quibbles of a
perverted logic, would
disprove the possibility of motion, or discredit the
evidence of their own senses.
*
In these circumstances, therefore, conceiving it
to be the duty of every man to impart to others
that knowledge of which he believes himself to be
in possession, more
especially when, from its na,-
ture, it appears calculated to benefit mankind in
general, I resolved to summon
up that moral cou-
rage which, in the cause of truth, however unfa-
°
It seems the more extraordinary, that medical men in this
country should obstinately decline the investigation of this sub-
ject, which promises not only to enlarge their professional
knowledge, but to augment their practical means, and thus in-
aeus the sphere of their usetixlness, considering the manifold
i|npsr&ctions which all great physicians have acknowledged to
exid in their science. These imperfections have been fiiirly
stated, and candidly admitted, by the celebrated Dr Abercrom-
bie of-Edinburgh, in his recent work On the Intellectual Pawn,
who does not hesitate to acknowledge, that "
the uncertainty
of medicine, which is a theme for the philosopher and the hu-
morlst, is deeply felt by the practical physician in the daily ex.
VOL I. B
"
I A
rnnmcs 'ro THE
shionabie or
unpahitabie, enables us to bid defiance
to the sneers of ignorance and the -prejudices of
science, and to communicate to my countrymen
some -information with regard to those facts, of
which both the authenticityand the value had long
been recognised by our~neighhoui's. ~
I trust, how-
ever, that, in respect of a
my acknowledged defi-
ciency in much-of that species of learning, which,
had -I possessed it, would have rendered the execu-
tion of my_task more easy, more perfect, and pro-
bably more
acceptable to the profession, the follow-
ing attempt -to investigate a diiheult subject will
be treated with some corresponding indulgence.
"
Ne nostros contemne ausus, medicumque laborem =
»-....¢.»¢»..-.-
....».-.-.»»¢.,.
Scilicet bac tenui rerum sub imagine multum
Natura, fatique subest, et grandis origo."
Some of the observations contained in the fol-
ercise of his art_;" and having noticed the diEerent departments
of medical science, he ingénuously admits, that extended ,obser-
vationhu only tended to render its deicieneies the :note re-
lllfklbk. Hence,no doubt, the daily sucees of quacks and em-
pirics. Immediately previous to the observation above quoted,
Dr Abercrombie alludes to the apolqgue which, according to
D'Alembert, was made upon this subject; by a physician, s men
of vitmd ofphilosophy:
"
Nature is fighting withjlle disease;
s blind man armed with a club, that is the physician, comes to
settle the disturbance. He B1-st tries to make peace; when he
cannot accomplish this, his club, and strikes at random;
if henstrikes the disease, he kills the disease; if he strikes _na-
ture, he kills nature."
U '
seconn nnirios. li
lowing work may perhaps be thought to have ra-
ther too controversial a
complexion. This has been
occasioned principally by the ignorance, prejudice
and petiilance with which the subject has general-
ly been treated in this country. But the author
disclaims all intention of offending the feelings of
any individual.
The iirst edition of this Inquiry was an exceed-
ingly hasty, and, consequently, a
very imperfect
production! In it, my principal object was to
draw the attention of the public to the recent Re-
port of the French Academicians. The volume
seems to have excited some small sensation in ditl
ferent quarters; but I soon became aware that the
'
lIlhurryingitthro\.\ghthepi'ess,a.slighterror hsd,perin-
euriaqi, crept into the title-page of the first edition, which pro-
feaed to give the translation ofa Report by a Committee ofthe
If$|i|lSHe||qf!hFrer|ohRoyaIAcads|\gqfSci¢|ics¢,instead
of the Royal Academy gf Medicina. The error was
altogether
ofa trivial nature. and the title was
correctly given on the leaf
the Report. But-pm-va lever capiunt anime:-a
grsddsal is said to have been attempted to be madeof this cir-
euaistance by the sceptics and opponents; nay, some, I am told,
were disposed even to view it as decisive of the merit and fate
df Magnetism. Ridiculous! as if any such casual and
unimportant error of mine could affect the credibility of the
phenomena described, or as if the Royal Academy of Medicine
were not -the most competent tribunal before which this parti-
allafquastiau could have been investigated. Whatever may
be thought by individual members, an impartial inquiry into
the pretensions of Animal Magnetism could have reflected no
dlgrace upon the Institute, or Royal Society of France.
- _
lii PREFACE.
`
introductory and explanatory matter which accom-
panied the Report, did not convey sutiicient infor-
mation to those to whom the subject was
entirely
new, or who had not the means or the leisure to
prosecute the study in the writings of other au-
thors. Besides, many most
interesting phenomena
were
scarcely noticed, far less explained to the in-
quisitive reader; and I was anxious to exhibit a
more extensive view both of the facts and of the
evidence. Although, therefore, I have announced
the present publication as a second edition of the
former, it has been, in fact, almost entirely re-
composed, and may be considered as
nearly a new
work. All the most important information con-
tained in the former has been retained in this edi~
tion, whilsta. great deal of new matter has been
added. The French Report, which was the prin-
cipal object of the former publication, I now deem
of inferior importance, and I have therefore thrown
it into the Appendix. Valuable as that document
undoubtedly is, I found many persons disposed to
consider it as
containing the whole evidence in the
case, instead of being, as it is in reality, a mere
fragment.
I must still be permitted to express my hope,
that this very interesting subject may soon
engage
the attention of some more
competent inquirer.
Ennuuaen, l50» April 1836.
VOL. I .
INTRODUCTION.
Mirctur popului mirmula ; nil mihi minxm
Prater cum, solun qui fmit illn, Dxuu.
Own.
A
INTRODUCTION.
IT is not uncommon for persons, ignorant of the
nature of the alleged phenomena of Animal Mag-
netism, to denounce them as
pretended miracles,
and bold them up to ridicule. This is extremely
irrational. A miracle is a violation of some gene-
ral and known law of nature, in consequence of
the immediate interposition of a
Superior Power;
and, in the sense of this definition, it is not pre-
tended by any of the philosophical adherents of the
doctrine, that there are
any miracles in Animal
Magnetism. The experiments, indeed, by which
the reality of its peculiar phenomena has been es-
tablished, have disclosed a number of extraordinary
and most interesting facts; but the occasional oc-
currence of every fact, however uncommon, is ca-
pable of being demonstrated by evidence; it can
be shown to be the result of natural causes; and it
then becomes quite unphilosophical to regard it as
a real or pretended miracle.
Previous to the wonderful discoveries which
have been made in modern times, relative .CQ the
4»_ 1_:._ : -
1N'rnonuc'r1oN.
properties and action of Heat, of Electricity, of Gal-
vanism, Src., had any man ventured to anticipate
the powers and uses of the Steam-engine, the Elec-
trical Machine, the Voltaic Pile, or of any other of
those mighty instruments by means of which the
mind of man has acquired so vast a dominion over
the world of matter, he would probably have been
considered as a visionary or a madman; and had
he been able to exhibit the effects of any of these
instruments, before the principles which regulate
their action had become generally, known to philo-
sophers, they would, in all likelihood,have been atf
tributed to supernatural agency; and we should
then, perhaps, have heardiof the miracles of Me-
chanical Philosophy, as we now hear' of the mira-
cles of Animal Magnetism. In the strict andpro-
per sense of the word, thereare no miracles either
in the one or in the other ; both are
merely con-
versant with the natural effects of natural agencies.
There is no error more arrogant or more irrational
than that which leads us to measure the reality of
phenomena, or the possibilities of nature, by the
line ofour own limited experience-toweighthem in
the balance of our own
partial understandingéwith
an utter disregard of positive facts, established 15'
real and satisfactory evidence. Every man who
has passed the mere threshold of cience, ought to
be aware, that it is quite possible for us to be hu
INTRODUCTION. 5
possession of a fact, or even of a series of facts,
long before we become capable of giving a rational
and satisfactory explanation of them; in short, be-
fore we are enabled to discover their causes; and
to such unexplained facts, especially when they ap-
pear to be attended with my tery, the vulgar give
the name of miracles! But this is an abuse of
language-unphilosophical and dangerous-which
ought to be stigmatized and exploded.-|-
Indeed, were we to regard all extraordinary and
'
The conduct of some of the opponents of Animal Magne-
tism, is the most irrational that can be conceived. They sneer
at our lahours, and ridicule our facts, and then call upon us to
explain the phenomena. They first discourage allinvestigatiou,
and then taunt us with not doing that which investigation only
can accomplish.
-1- Many natural niraclen, along with their scientific explana-
tlma, will he found in Sir David Brewster's learned and amusing
[din on Natural Magic. Take the following as one instance.
We have probably all heard of the celebrated Spectra qf the
Drain, one ofthe Hartz Mountains in Germany. This spectre
caslhh ofa gigantic figure, which has, from time immemorial, oc-
nllmallyappeared in the heavens to a
spectator on the top of the
IGDIIIII, and given rise to the traditional belief that it is haunt-
ed by lllpernatural beings. This figure has been seen by many
lnvellen. In speaking of it, M. Jordan says,
"
In the course
of my reputed tours through the Hartz Mountains, I often,
but in vain, ascended the Bracken, that I might see the spectret
M hlgth, on a serene morning, as the sun was just appearing
above the horizon, it stood before me, at a great distance, to-
Ulf* the opposite mountain. It seemed to be the gigantic
Ilgure of a man. It vanished in a moment." In September
UIQ, the celebrated Abbé Hauy visited this country. He says,
6 INTRODUCTION.
apparently unaccountable phenomena as miracles,
I suspect that we should have a
great many more
of such miracles than those of Animal Magnetism.
Every science, in short, would have its own
peel!-
liar miracles. We should then have the miracles
ofAstronomy,of Chemistry, of Mineral Magnetism,
of Electricity, of Galvanism, and as
many more
classes of miracles as there are
departments of na-
tural knowledge. For of many of the phenomena
that occur in these sciences, what more do we lmow
than that they have been demonstrated to exist in
certain circumstances, _and under certain condi-
"
After having ascended the mountain for thirty times, I at last
saw the spectre. It was just_at sunrise, in the middle of the
month of May, about four o'clock in the morning. I saw dis.
tinctly a human figure of a monstrous size. The atmosphere
was
quite serene towards the east. In the south-west, a
high
wind carried before it some light vapours, which were
scarcely
condensed into cloud; and hung round the mountain upon which
the figure stood. I bowed; the colossal figure repeated it. I
paid my respects a second time, which was returned with the
same civility. I then called the landlord of the inn, and having
taken the same position which I had occupied before, we looked
towards the mountain, when we clearly saw two such colossal
figures, which, after having repeated our compliments, by bend-
ing their bodies, vanished." Here, then, was a popular miracle,
so long as the phenomenon continued unexplained.
Now, the following is the simple explanation of this singular
and apparently preternatural apparition.
"
When the rising sun throws his rays over the Bracken upon
the body ofa man standing .opposite to fleecy clouds, let the be-
holder tix his eye steadily upon them, and, in all probability, he
will see his own shadow extending the length of 600 or 600
feet, at the distance of about two miles from him."
`
INTRODUCTION. 7
tions? and this we also know in regard to the phe-
nomena of Animal Magnetism. If no facts were to
he admitted in science, excepting such as are found
to coincide with our own
previous observation, or
such as could be immediately referred to some
known principle as their cause, our whole know-
ledge might be compressed within very narrow
hounds; there would be an end to all farther ad-
vancement, and the hook of Nature would hence-
forth be to us a sealed volume.
With regard to Astronomy, the celebrated Sir
John Herschell, in the Introduction to his late ad-
mirable treatise upon that interesting study, oh-
serves, that "
there is no science which draws more
largely upon that intellectual liberality, which is
ready to adopt whatever is demonstrated, or to con-
cede whatever is rendered highly probable, how-
ever new and uncommon the points of view may
be in which objects the most familiar may thereby
become placed. Almost all its conclusions stand in
:pas and striking contradiction with those qfeuperji-
cial and vulgar observation, and with what appears
tr every one, untd he has understood and weighed the
proofs to the contrary, the most positive evidence of
his aenees.*"
'
When the early philosophers of the Italian school explained
to their disciples, upon the principles of their astronomical
system, the very simple causes of the solar and lunar eclipses,
and othernatural phenomena, which were generally regarded by
I0 INTRODUCTION.
"
How strangely," says one of the very few in-
telligent English disciples of Mesmer (the late Mr
Chenevix)-" how strangely must they estimate
nature, bow highly must they value themselve ,
who deny the possibility of any cause of any effect,
merely because it is incomprehensible! For, in
fact, what do men
comprehend? Of what do they
know the causes ? When Newton said, that gravi-
tation held the world together, did he assign the
reason why the heavenly bodies do not ily oil' from
each other into infinite space ? He did but teach
a word, and that word has 'gained admittance, as
it were, surreptitionsly, amid causes, even in the
minds of the most enlightened, insomuch that to
doubt it now were a
proof of ignorance and folly.
"
Let an untutored Indian hear, for the first
time, that the moon which rolls above his head is
suspended there by the power of gravitation; that
she obeys the iniluence of every little speck which
his eye can discern in the iirmament; of orbs
cotton trade, spindles that used to revolve fifty times a minute,
now revolve, in some cases, eight thousand timesaminute. At
one mill at Manchester, there are 136,000 spindles at work,
spinning one million two hundred thousand miles of cotton
thread per week. Mr Owen, at New Lanark, with 2500 people,
daily produces as much cotton-yarn as will go round the earth
twice and a halil The total machinery in the kingdom is cal-
culated now to be equal to the work of four hundred millions,
and might be increased to an intalculable extent under proper
management. _
_
_
nrrnonucnou. ll
placed beyond them again, but invisible to us, be-
cause their light has not yet reached our
globe;
that the earth cannot be shaken, and the shock not
communicated through the whole system of the
universe; that every pebble under his feet as vir-
tually rules the motions of Saturn as the sun can
do. Let him then be told that one sentient being,
placed in the vicinity of another sentient being,
can, by a certain action of his nervou
system, pro-
duce the daily phenomenon, sleep, and the rarer
one, somnambulism; and which of these lessons
would he be the most prompt to credit? Certain-
ly not that which inculcates an
irnpalpable action
and reaction between infinite masses, separated by
infinite distances. The pride of learning, the arro-
gance of erudition, deem it ignoble to believe what
they cannot explain ; while simple instinct, struck
with awe by every thing, is equally open to credit
what it cannot as what it can
comprehend, and ad-
mits no scholastic degrees of marvellousness."
Now, if there be any individuals who are dis-
posed to reject the alleged phenomena of Animal
Magnetism, at once, and without any serious exa-
mination of their reality, as utterly inexplicable,
marvellous, and incredible, I would humbly re-
commend to them, before taking such a precipitate
and, I may be allowed to say, irrational step, to
consider well whether it were a
greater miracle
12 israooucrros.
that these facts should be true, or that some hun-
dreds of the most sober, enlightened, respectable,
and competent observers, in all parts of Europe, at
different periods of time, without any possible con-
cert amongst each other, and without any imagin-
able motive for falsehood and deception, should have
wilfully and recklessly compromised their own ho-
nourable and scientific characters, by declaring' that
they had witnessed certain phenomena of a most
remarkable and unambiguous description, which,
in reality, had no existence; that these leamed and
most respectable individuals should have acciden-
tally stumbled upon and trodden the same extraor-
dinary path of paltry and unprofitable deception,
and openly, anxiously, and impudently proclaimed
their own
folly, and dishonesty, and moral turpi-
tude, to the world at large; and, moreover-most
miraculous of all l-that this foolish and false 'tes-
timony should happen to be supported and con-
firmed, in almost all its essential particulars, by
strong collateral evidence of the most unsuspicious
nature. To adopt this last alternative, I do not
hesitate to aflirm, implies, in my humble opinion,
our belief of a much 'greater miracle than any cre-
dence we might accord to the facts themselves;
which last, indeed, lose all their miraculous charac-
ter the moment we abandon all theoretical preju-
dices, lay our minds open to demonstration, and
INTRODUCPIOK I8
become satislied that they are real, natural pheno-
mena. The best means of obtaining conviction,
especially in the ease of professional gentlemen-
and to them, principally, I would seriously recom-
mend the inquiry-is to make careful experiments,
for which an' extensive practice must afford them
many valuable opportunities; and should they pur-
sue the appropriate methods in the right spirit, and
in suitable circumstances, I may safely assure them
that their efforts cannot fail to be crowned with
success.
Indeed, I cannot anticipate that the en-
lightened professors of the healing art, animated
with that zeal and benevolence which essentially
characterise their fratemity, will much longer shut
their eyes to some of the most interesting and im-
portant phenomena of nature-that they will much
longer neglect a method of treatment, which, be-
sides increasing their therapeutic knowledge, pro-
mises to multiply their resources, by enabling them
more effectually to cure or alleviate many of those
diseases which a$ict humanity.
I have been thus earnest in my endeavours to
persuade my readers to throw aside all prejudice
and prepossession, and submit to patient and .un~
biassed investigation, because I have almost inva-
riably found that those persons, however otherwise
learned and intelligent, to whom any of the more
extraordinary phenomena of Animal Magnetism
141 mracnucrnox.
have been for the first time mentioned, have either
listened to the circumstances with an incredulous
wonder, or attempted to demonstrate the impossi-
bility of their occurrence upon some commonly re-
ceived principle of science. Now, what I am de-
sirous of impressing upon their minds is this-that
an alleged fact is not necessarily false,_because it
may seem extraordinary, unaccountable, or
appa-
rently inconsistent with some assumed scientific
principle. Human wisdom is fallible; but Nature,
when viewed with unjaundiced eyes and unpreju-
diced judgment, cannot deceive us in the end ; nor
can her manifestations ever come into real collision
with the conclusion of a just philosophy: Nun-
quam aliud natura, aliud sapientia dizcit. The fact
itself must first he strictly investigated; and if this
investigation be conducted with kill and impartia-
lity, it may possibly turn out, not that the alleged
phenomenon is false, but that the adverse theory is
either unfounded, or at least imperfect, or
perhaps
inapplicable in the peculiar circumstances of the
case. In a
subsequent part of this volume, I shall
have occasion to direct the attention of the reader
to a very remarkable, a very extraordinary, tate of
the human organism, which sometimes occurs na-
turally or
spontaneously, sometimes in consequence
of a morbid state of the system, and is sometimes
produced artiicially by means of the magnetic pro»
-1N'rnonUc'r1oN. 15
cesses. Of the occasional existence of this extra-
ordinary state-which is generally, although per-
haps not very properly, denominated Somnambw-
lism*-it is impossible to doubt; but its very sin-
gular phenomena have never
yet been sufliciently
investigated by physiologists. To those who have
made adequate inquiry, it must be abundantly ob-
vious, that the state of Somnambulism is totally dif-
ferent from the ordinary organic state of existence,
and that the appearances it presents are
incapable
of explanation upon the common
principles of phy-
siology. But it would be very unphilosophical in~
deed, to regard this inconsistency as a
proof of the
non-existence of that peculiar state, in the face of
our actual experience. The proper method of pro-
ceeding would be, first to ascertain the reality of
the facts, and then to alter or
enlarge our
theory,
to as to enable it to comprehend, and, if possible,
account for the newly-observed phenomena.
I could easily point out to the notice of my
readers many striking instances illustrative of the
'
'
The impropriety of the term Somnambulism, or sleep-walk-
ing," when employed' to distinguish the state in question, has
been remarked by many authors, and several others have been
suggested as more characteristic ofthe affection. That ofSomno-
llgll appears to me to be the most appropriate, signifying that
the mind isawake while the body sleeps. I am aware, however,
of the di$culty of altering expressions which have become Hxed,
as it were, by general use; and I would recommend to my read-
ers to attend to things rather than to words.
16 mrnonucrrou.
dilliculty of obtaining credence to the statement of
new, rare, or unnoticed facts, however well esta-
blished, when they appear extraordinary in them-
selves, or seem calculated to invalidate a favourite
theory, or to contradict preconceived_opinions.* I
need not remind my readers of those days of scien-
tific _
darkness, in which eclipses of the sun and
moon, the appearance of comets, meteors, and other
natural phenomena, were generally looked upon as
miracles, frequently as
harbingers of Divine wrath
to mankind; nor will I go back to Galileo's restor-
ed doctrine of the earth's motion, or to Sir Isaac
Newton's splendid discoveries in physics, because
these, I apprehend, must be familiar to most of us;
but shall take my examples from the latest history
of scientific discovery.
The very first instance I shall adduce, strongly
illustrates the iniiuence of prejudice and' pre-con-
ceived opinion, even over otherwise enlightened
minds.-" lt is not without reason," says a recent
writer, "
that the epithet uncouth has been applied
to the Dodo ; for two distinguished naturalists, in
their day, maintained, for many years, that such a
'
Every one know how much opposition the Copernican
theory experienced, for along time, from prejudice and prepos-
session, and in what contempt it continued to be held by the
learned as well as the vulgar. The persecution of Galileo, the
tardy reception of the theory of Harvey, and of the discoveries
of Newton, are equally notorious. _
lnraonucrxos. 17
form had never existed but in the imagination of
the painter. One of these individ uals, however, at
length had an
opportunity of inspecting the well
known specimen of the head of the Dodo, which is
preserved in the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford;
and was then convinced that such a bird had real-
ly existed. But so far was he from producing the
same conviction in the mind of his friend by the
description of the specimen, that he incurred the
charge of an intentional deception; and the result
Wil, that an interminable feud arose between
them : for although they were attached to the
same institution, and lived within its walls, .......
they never again spoke to each other."'l' A
The next example to which I shall refer, relates
to one of the most curious and most beneficial dis-
coveries that have been made in modern times; and
it afords an apt illustration of the absurdity of de-
nying the possibility of facts before investigating
their reality.
"
Authorities," says M. Arago,-who, however
eminent in the physical and mathematical sciences,
is, I am informed, a decided opponent of Animal
Magnetism,-" authorities, I admit, are of little
weight in matters of science, in the face of positive
facts; but it is necessary that these facts exist,
'_ See Dr Kidd's Bridgewater Treatise.
VOL- I. B
18 nrrnonvcrxon.
that they have been subjected to severe examina-
tion, that they have been skilfully grouped, with
a view to extract from them the truths they conceal.
He who ventures to treat, a prabri, a fact as absurd,
wants prudence. He has not reflected on the nu-
merous errors he would have committed in regard
to many modern discoveries. I ask, for example,
if there can be any thing in the world more bizarre,
more incredible, more inadmissible, than the dis-
covery of Dr Jenner P-Well ! the bizarre, the in-
credible, the inadtnissible, is found to be true; and
the preservative against the small-pox is, by una-
nimous consent, to be sought for in the little pus-
tule that appears in the udder of the cow."*-So
far M. Arago. I have read of an eminent physi-
cian at Berlin, whose prejudice against this disco-
very was so inveterate, that, to the last moment of
his life, he never ceased to inveigh against vacci-
nation, as the 61°utal`in6c"ulata2m.
'
These observations appear to be exceedingly applicable to
theirsuthorhimselthasoiiirssregardstheopinionl heissaid
to have uttered respecting the phenomena ofAnimal Magnetism.
M. Arago, however, I believe to be no less distinguished for his
libemllty, than -for his talents md scientidc acquizenentu and
I would, therefore, humbly recommend to that eminent indivi-
dual to investigate the subject more thoroughly and more mi-
nutely, before he ventures to pnmmmce a decided opinion upon
it. I think he will admit that the evidence could not have been
feeble, which produced conviction in the mind of his celebrated
countrymen, Cuvier.
'
I
urraonucnon. 19
Dr Elliotson, in one of his medical lectures, when
speaking of the prejudices that prevailed against
the introduction of inoculation for the
small-pox into England, observes, that "
many
clergyman and disenting ministers raved against
it from the pulpit, and called inoculation the %
spriagmfatlaeiun: tlaosewhoperfbrmeditwere called
soreerers, sndthewlaoletlaingwus saidtobe a dia-
bolical invention lf Satan. Others, however, were
of a diferent opinion, and Bishop Maddox and Dr
defended it, and in doing so employed
scriptural quotations. You know," continues Dr
Blliotson, "
that the devil can quote Scripture to
'suit his own purposes, and therefore it wa very fair
for good men to quote Scripture too. However, the
reasonable side of the question at last prevailed." I
have thought it proper to make this reference to the
analogous case of the introduction of inoculation,
because I am aware that similar arguments (if such
-they can be called), have been, and may still be
employed, by certain wellrmeaning, perhaps, but
-weak, ill-informed, and mistaken persons, in rela-
tion to the study, the practice, and the phenomena
of Animal Magnetism.
`
The two next instances I shall bring forward, in
illmtration of this subject, seem still more apposite
to our own ease; inasmuch as they relate to facts
which had been observed for many ages, before
20 snrrnonucrxon.
their authenticity was fully established by demon-
stration.
'
'
The first of these relates to the curious pheno-
menon of spontaneous combustion, or that internal
burning to which animal bodies are occasionally
liable. This fact appears to have been known t0
the ancients, many instances of it have been
recorded. The reality of this phenomenon, how-
ever, although believed by some, was, for a long
time, doubted by many, until, in recent times, Sir
David Brewster, in his amusing and instructive
Letters on Natural Magic, has shewn that it has
been completely established by evidence ; and I be-
lieve it is now generally admitted by physicians and
philosophers. .
The last instance I shall particularly refer to, is
derived from the discovery of what are called me-
teoric stones.
That solid masses fell from above upon the earth,
connected with the appearance of meteors, had
been advanced as
earlygas 500 years before the
Christian era, bythe Greek philosopher Anaxagoras;
and the same idea had been brought forward in a
vague manner, by other inquirers among the Greeks
and Roman , and was .revived in modem times;
but it was
regarded by the greater number of phi-
losophers as a mere vulgar error, until so late as
1802, when Mr Howard, by an accurate examine,-
nrrnonscrxou. 21
tion of the testimonies connected with 'events of this
kind, and by a minute analysis of the substances
said to have fallen in different parts of the globe,
proved the authenticity of the circumstance, and
shewed that these meteoric productions differed
from any other substance belonging to our earth;
and since that period, a number of these phenomena
have occurred, and have been minutely recorded.
Some of my readers, too, may perhaps recollect the
various theories which were advanced with a view
to account for this remarkable phenomenon; and
there can be little doubt that the diiiiculty of ex-
plaining it upon intelligible and satisfactory prin-
ciples, in this, as. in other instances, prolonged the
disbelief or the disregard of the fact.
I have hinted that the two last mentioned
examples may be regarded as
pretty apposite illus-
trations of the fate which has hitherto attended
Animal Magnetism. It has been asserted by some
individuals, little conversant with the subject, that
the facts of Animal Magnetism are new,--that the
pretended discovery is altogether of recent origin.
This assertion, even if it were true, would be a
matter of no
earthly consequence, because it could
have no eE'ect in invalidating the evidence of the
existence of the phenomena. But it is not only
unimportant, but demonstrably false, as will be
seen hereafter. Many of the most important facts
22 xnrnonucnosx
alluded to appear- to have been well known to the
ancients ; they may be traced among different na.
tions and in remote times; and they have been re-
ferred to and reasoned upon by several old authors,
although it is only at a recent period, indeed, that
men of science have condescended to devote to
them an attention commensurate with their value.
We have thus seen that many things which were,
for a long time, treated as fabulous and incredible,
hive, at length, been proved to be authentic facts, as
seen as the evidence in support of them was duly
subjected to scientific investigation, and the requi-
site experiments, when possible and necessary, were
'made with a view to ascertain their truth. We have
seen that, in the msc of meteoric stones, more than
2000 years elapsed between the first recorded ob-
servation ofthe phenomenon and the ultimate con-
firmation and general recognition of the fact. Do
IDCUIGSB examples teach us that an obstinate scep-
ticism, and neglect of adequate investigation, are
quite as detri mental to the progress of scientific die-
covery, as an excess of crednlity without due in-
quiry? For, if we
adopt the unphilosophioal prin-
ciple of rejecting, and at once without examination
or inquiry, all facts which appear to us to be extraor-
dinary,inexplicable,and mysterious,andwhich have
net happened to fall immediately under our own li-
mited observation, we-place oureelves precisely in
`
/
livraonncrxosl 28
the same
predicament with that Indian Prince,
who, relying exclusively upon his own experience,
and probably conceiving that it was
quite impossi-
ble for any thing to exist of which he was
ignorant,
denied the possibility of the production of ice by
the freezing of water, and treated all accounts of
the phenomenon as
apocryphal, fabulous, and ut-
terly unworthy of credit. We are informed that,
in more recent times, another sage Indian potentate,
in the same
spirit, imagined that a certain Euro-
pean traveller was actually sporting with his cre-
dulity, when he was
merely attempting to give him
an accurate description of the steam-engine.
It my be reasonably maintained that, in the
sciences of Physiology and Psychology, as in others,
one
important fact, when well established, is of in-
initely more value than hundreds of the mo t bril-
liant but baseless hypotheses; and nothing can be
more irrational than to attempt to ridicule or de-
preciate a well authenticated fact, either because
we are incapable of accounting for it, or because it
appears, apriori, to be inconsistent with some re-
ceived theory.
"
Concerning the publication of
novel facts," says the late celebrated Sir H. Davy,
"
there can be but one
judgment, for facts are in~
dependent of fashion, taste, and caprice, and are
subject to no code of criticism ; they are more use-
ful, perhaps, even when they contradict, than when
24, INTRODUCTION.
they support received doctrines; for our theories
are
only imperfect approximations to the real know-
ledge of things."
Theories, indeed, have been pretty justly de-
scribed as
"
the mighty soap bubbles, with which
the grown-up children of science amuse themselves,
whilst the honest vulgar stand gazing in
stupid
admiration, and dignify these learned vagaries with
the name of science."
`
A
It may be stated as one of the many great ad-
vantages attending the study of Animal Magnetism,
that it tends to approximate the sciences of Physio-
logy and Psychology-the phenomena of the ma-
terial and those of the spiritual man-by demon-
strating, experimentally, the intimate connexion
that subsists between them. The study of Physio-
logy has of late been generally confined to an in-
vestigation of the component parts and mere mate-
rial structure of the organism, with little or no re-
gard to the principles which regulate their action
in living beings. Psychological science, strictlyso
called, on the other hand,_ has been for a long time
greatly neglected in this country, and its pheno-
mena, even when they presented themselves to no-
tice, have been almost entirely disregarded, al-
though of paramount interest to every intelligent
'
Sm Wnnuu Dnuuuoxn ; Aaademioal Questions.
Jurnonucriou. 25
living being, and of the utmost importance to the
philosophy of man.* This has probably arisen
°
I find the following striking, and, as it appears to me,
extremely appropriate observations upon the present state of
phllmiiphy in England, in the London Review for Aprll 1 5:
"
In the intellectual pursuits which form great minds, this
'country was formerly pre-eminent. England once stood at the
bead of European philosophy. _Where stands she now ? Con-
sultthe general opinion of Europe. The celebrity of England,
in the present day, rests upon her docks, her canals, her rail-
roads. In intellect, she is distinguished only for a kind of sober
good sense, free from extravsgsnoe, but also void of loity aspi-
rations; and for doing all those things which are best done where
man most resembles a machine, with the precision ofa machine.
Valuable qualities, doubtless; but not precisely those by which
man raises himself to the perfection of' his nature, or achieves
greater and greater conquests over the diiliculties which encum-
ber his social arrangements. Ask any reflecting person in France
or Germany his opinion of England; whatever may be his own
tenets-however friendly his disposition to us-whatever his ad-
miration of our institutions, and even his desire to introduce them
intoliis native country ;-however alive to the faults and errors of
his own countrymen-thefeaturewhich always strikes him in the
English mind, is the absence of enlarged and commanding views.
Every question he Hnds discussed and decided on its own basis,
however narrow, without any light thrown upon it from prin-
ciples more extensive than itself; and no question dismissed at
all, unless Parliament, or some constituted authority, is to be
moved to-morrow, or the day after, to put lt to the vote. In.
stead of the ardour of research, the eagerness for large and
comprehensive inquiry, of the educated part of the French and
German youth, what find we? Out of the narrow bounds of
mathematical and physical science, not a vestige of a reading
and thinking public, engaged in the investigation of truth, as
snub, in the prosecution of thought for the sake of thought.
VOL. 1. C
26 mraonuorrou.
from the peculiar direction which has been given
to the study of nature. We are
generally tang-ht
to investigate only the materiality and mechanism
of things, without paying much regard to those im-
material --or rather, those invisible, intangible and
imponderable-forces, which are incessantly active
throughout the universe, and are the mainsprings
of the vital organization. Even in Physics, how-
ever-a science more immediately conversant with
matter and mechanism-we dare not overlook the
perpetual operation of these important powers, al-
though we should never be enabled to ascertain
Among no class, except sectarian religlonists--and what they
are we all know-is there any interest in the great problem of
man's nature and life: among no class whatever is there any
curiosity respecting the nature and principles of human society,
the history or the philosophy of civilization ; nor any belief
that, from such inquiries, a
single important practical conse-
quence can follow. Guizot, the greatest admirer of England
among the continental philosophers, nevertheless remarks, that,
in England, even
great events do not, as they do every where
else, inspire great ideas. Things, in England, are greater than
the men who accomplish them."
'
In the preceding representation, it is to be feared there is
but too much truth. In England, the very name of science is
perverted, and the epithet of philosopher is almost exclusively
conferred upon the mathematician, the chemist, and the mecha-
nic. Upon the Continent, England, in the present day, is not
considered as holding any high rank in the scale of intellectual
pursuit; and for one work which issues from the Bdtish press
in the course of a year, on any subject connected with the
science of mind, probably twenty make their annual appearance
in France and Germany.
INTRODUCTION. 27
the principles of their action. As Dr Rogetob-
serves in his treatise on
Electricity, "
besides the
well-known mechanical forces which belong to or-
dinary ponderable matter, the phenomena of na-
ture ,exhibit to our view another class of powers,
the -presence of which, although sufliciently cha-
racterised by certain effects, is not attended- with
any appreciable change in the weight of the bo-
dies with which they are connected. To this class
belong Heat, Light, Electricity, and Magnetism."
And with still more immediate reference to our
present subject, M. Butfon, when treating of the
sympathies that exist between the different parts
of theliving organism, remarks, that "
the corre-
spondence which certain parts of the human body
have with others very diferent and verydistant......
might he much more generallyobserved; but we do
not pay suicient attention to eifects, when we do
not suspect their causes. It is undoubtedly for this
reason that men have never thought of carefully
examining these correspondences in the human
body, upon which, however, depends a. great part
of the play ofthe animal machine...... A great many
of these might be discovered, if the most eminent
physicians would turn their attention to that study.
It appars to me
that this would be, perhaps, more
useful than the nomenclature of anatomy....... The
true springs of our organization are, not these
28 1N'raonUc'rIoN.'
niuseles,'these arteries,'these'nerves, which are de~
scribed withso much care 'and exactness: there
reside, as we hawie' said, internal forces in organised
bodies, which do not follow the laws of thatygross
mechanieal system 'which wa haveinvented, and
to whichfwe`would reduce every thing. Instead
ot'
attempting to obtain a
lmowledge of these -forces
from' their- elfects, men have endeavoured to banish
even the idea of them, and to exclude
i
them from
philosophy. They haye, however, re-appeared, and
with more eclat than ever, in the principle of gra-
vitationéin thechemical atlinities-in the phe-
nomena of electricity, &c. But, notwithstanding
their evidence and their universality-as they act
internally, as we can only reach them by mean of
reasoning, as, in a word, they elude our vision, we
admit `thein 'with idiiiiculty: we
always wish to
judge by the exterior ;` we imagine that this exte-
rior is all; it 'appears that we are not permitted
to penetrate beyond it, and we neglect all the means
which might enable us to approach them.
i
"
The' ancients,'whose genius was less limited,
and whose philosophy was more extended, wonder-
ed less than' we do at facts which they could not
explain: they had a better view of Nature, such
as she is; a`sympathy,'a singular correspondence,
was to them only a
phenomenon, whileto us it`is
a
paradox, when we" `cannot refer it to our pre-
INTRODUCTION. 29
tended laws of motion: they knew that Nature
operates by unknown means the greater part of
her efects; they were
fully convinced that we can-
not enumerate these means and resources of Na-
ture, and that, consequently, it is impossible for
the human mind to limit her, by reducing her to
a certain number of principles of action and means
of operation; on the contrary, it was sumeient for
them to have remarked a certain number of rela-
tive effects of the same order, to justify them in
constituting a cause.
"
Let ns, with the ancients, call this
singular;
correspondence of the different parts of the body
a Sympathy, or, with the modems, consider it as
an unknown relation in the action of the nervous
system: this sympathy, or this relation, exists
dironghont the whole animal economy; and we
cannot too carefully observe its effects, if we wish
to perfect the theory of medicine."
I
Thus far Button.-It is unquestionably true, that,
in_modern times, at least, and especially in this
country, far too little attention has been hitherto
paid to the spiritual nature of man-to the effects
of .tliose immaterial and invisible iniuences, which,
analogous to the chemical and electric agents, are
the true springs of our organization, continually
changes internally which are externally
perceived, as the marked efeets of unseen causes,
30 nvmonucrrou.
and which cannot be explained upon the principles
of any of the laws of mechanism: and it
adds no
small value to the study of Animal Magnetism,
that it has brought pretty fully to light a most in-
teresting class of phenomena, heretofore little in-
vestigated, a
knowledge of which is essentially ne-
cessary the perfection, not of Medicine only,
but of Philosophy in general.
The medical student applies himself to the study
of Anatomy, and endeavours to acquire a
compe-
tent knowledge of the diiferent parts of the human
body--of Vthebones, and joints, and nerves, and
muscles-of the thews and sinews of a man--in
short, of the mere animal mechanism; and this is
indispensable to the skilful exercise of his future
profession. He turns to Physiology, and seeks to
become acquainted with the uses and functions of
the various portions of the material structure; and
this, too, i essentially necessary. Chemistry, Ma-
teria Medica, Pathology, &c. are also necessaryac-
quisitionsQ But a greatdeal more than this is re-
quisite to constitute an accomplished' physician.
He must study profoundly the various sympathies
and susceptibilities of the human hams- its capa-
bility of being afected, in various ways, by those
imperceptible physical and moral influences, whose
existence is ~
constantly manifested in the living
body, but -which we' should in vain attempt to detect
xurnonucrxou. 31
or trace in the inanimate subject. All truly eminent
physicians have admittedthehigh importanceof this
last species of knowledge, and the success of their
professional practice has mainly depended upon its
skilful application. Yet it is certain, that, for more
than a century, men of science have betrayed a
strange indlsposition towards all investigations ol'
this nature--an obstinate scepticism with regard
to the results of all such inquiries, and a
propen-
sity to and ridicule the labours of those
who are engaged in them. So far, indeed, has this
spirit of hostility been carried, that individuals pre-
tending to discovery in this department of science
might esteem themselves fortunate, if, along with
the depreciation of their pursuits, and the ridicule
of their alleged facts, they were not also denounced
and persecuted as worthless, or even noxious im-
posters. Of such persecution there are abundant
instances in the history of all incorporated acade-
mies and colleges.
When Mesmer first commenced the magnetic
practice-of the eilicacy of which he had, per-
haps accidentally, made the discovery-at Vienna,
he was immediately assailcd by a virulent perse-
cution on the part of the medical faculty, which
eventually drove him from that city. The same
hostile spirit pursued him into France. It was in
vain that he succeeded in curing the most obsti-
32 INTRODUCTION.
nate diseases by processes until then unknown or
disregarded, and by means
apparently inadequate;
-it was in vain that he boldly published authentic
reports of his cures; it was invain that some of his
most respectable patients attested the realityof these
cures. The whole faculty, instead of calmly inves-
tigating the matter, rose
up in arms
against this
single unprotected stranger, denied the success of
bis practice in the face of the most positive and irre¢~
fragable evidence, loaded him with everyimaginable
species of calumny and abuse, loudly accused him of
jugglery, and proclaimed him a
quack and an im-
postor, although himself a regularly graduated phy-
sician- It was conceived to be highly presumptuous
in any member of the medical profession to pretend
to cure diseases according to a method not recom-
mended, or sanctioned, or even known, by the fa-
culty; and, unfortunately for their victim, thewords
Animal Magnetism were not to be found in the
Materia Medica. The patrimony of the college
was in danger, and the heretic disciple of Escula-
pius must he put down by all means.
"
,_
There isprobably no instance, however, in which
a real and valuable discovery has been ultimately
suppressed by methods so violent irrational as
this. Mesmer persevered-made a few learned
converts, who shared the persecution inflicted up5
on their master--bid defiance to all the malice of
-
INTRODUCTION. 88
his enemies, and gallantly maintained his ground
against the united eH`orts of incorporated power,
of learning, argument, wit, ridicule, falsehood, and
invective. The result-at least so far as
posterity
is concemed-was such as it were to be hoped
might always be the case when truth is opposed
hy oppressive authority, as well as by despicable
arts and manmuvres. In vain did the French Aca-
demicians of that day attempt to stide the embryo
discovery. Magna est veritas, et przevalebit. The
seed had beenabundantly sown in fertile soil-
tlie plantgrew up healthy and vigorous-the num-
ber of labourers daily increased-the fruit arrived
at maturity, and the harvest was ultimately se-
After the retirement of Mesmer, indeed,
the *practice of Animal Magnetism-although ge-
nerally discountenanced by scientific _and profes-
sional men, and, for some time, apparently in abey-
ance-was still partially exercisedin private by
learned and unlearned individuals; and the extra-
ordinary facts which were
gradually brought to
light, no less than the remedial efiicacy of the treat-
ment, at length forced complete conviction upon the
minds of thousands. Several eminent physicians
at last embraced the practice, and made great ad-
ditions to the evidence in favour of the authenti-
city of a doctrine which now stands much too
firmly to be in any danger of being shaken down
84 INTRODUCTION.
by the impotent efforts of an
ignorant ridicule.
Ot' late, it has been almost universally recognised
upon the Continent, and it has claimed the atten-
tion, and obtained the countenance, of some of the
most celebrated scientific moieties in Europe. For
ecveralyears, the Royal Academy of Berlin has
openly encouraged the investigation, and assigned
prizes tothe best 'memoireon the subject; and in
the latereport of the French Royal Academy of
Medicine, Animal Magnetism is recommended as
worthy of being allowed a.
place within the circle
of the medical sciences. Indeed, it may he truly
uid, that the physician who is contented to conti-
nue in "
happy ignorance" of its interesting phe-
nomena, and of the results which may be legiti»
mately deduced from them, wilfully relinquishes
one of the most useful acquirements essential to
his professional success, and neglects some of
most remarkable and most important discoveries
of modern philosophical investigation.
"
There are some secrets which who knows not now,
Must, ere
he reach them, climb the heapy Alps
Ofscience, and devote seven years to toll."
`
The details to be submitted to the attention of
the public in this publication, are
partly physiolo-
gical, partly psychological, and partly falling more
immediately within the medical department ofthe-
xwraonucrlou.
`
85
rapeutics, or the method of curing diseases ; and
in order that my readers may bein some measure
aware of the great interest and importance of the
subjects to be discussed, I shall here take the li-
berty of promising a. short and succinct account of
the new views to be brought under their noticein
each of these sciences respectively.
The science of Physiology professes to explain
tbe functions of organised beings. Human Phy-
siologyrelates to the animal, vital, or natural func-
tions of the human organism.
'
This science is acknowledged by almost all who
have msde it the object of their researches to be
in a
very imperfect and unsatisfactory state; and
this imperfeotion may, perhaps, be justly ascribed
-3, indeed, it is directly attributed by many-
to the circumstance, that most authors have ap-
pssred sgreat deal more anxious to establish some
favourite theory or
hypothesis of their own, upon
certain points, than to devote themselves to an at-
tentive, steady, and judicious generalization of the
actual phenomena of Nature. A great proportion
of the excellent work on LW and Organization,
by that very eminent anatomist and physiologist,
the late Dr John Barclay of Edinburgh, is occu-
pied with an exposition and refntstion of the fill-
lacionstheories of his predecessors. Mr How, the
86 INTRODUCTION.
'author of a translation of Rudolphi's Elements of
v,Phy81?Jh>gy, veryjustly observes ing his preface, that
a" the almost insuperable ditlicultieswhich have ever
attended the compilation of an elementary work on
physiology, are-increasing almost daily. There are
few authors who are not engaged in some favourite
hypothe is,and thus the factswhich come under their
observation are
seen through a false and deceitful
lnediumf' The te timony of Mr- Lawrence, in his
_Lectures on
Physzbhzgy (Lee, III), is to the same
effect. "
In this," says he, "
as in most other subf-
jects, the quantityof solid instruction is an incon-
siderable fraction of the accumulated mass;--a
few grains of wheat are buried amid heaps of chaE`.
For a few well-observed facts, rational deductions,
and cautious generalizations, we have whole clouds
of systems and doctrines, speculations and fancies,
built merely upon the workings of imagination,
and the labours of the closet." _
--
A great part of the evil probably arises from a
propensity to the premature formation of theories
and systems of science, which, in the course of
time, are found inadequate to explain all the phe-
nomena that occur; so that, when any new facts
are discovered, 'the doors of science are closed
against them, and they are at once
rejected, not
because they can be demonstrated to he false, but
llTRODUCl'ION.` 37
because they are, or are supposed to "bc, irreconcile-
able withcour preconceived notions!
'
Much, no doubt, has been done for this science,
since Mr Lawrence gave the above description of
the situation in which he found it; and the names
of Sir Charles Bell, Bichat, Flourens, Magendie,
his learned translator,'Dr Milligan,1- and others,
'
This propensity of the leamed was frequently exposed and
reprobated by Lord Bacon, as extremely detrimental to the
progress of science:
Error est prematura atque proterva reductio doctrinarum in
artes et methodos, quod cum fit, plerumque scientia aut_ parum
aut nihil proficit.-.De Augment. Scicnt.
+ I entertain all due respect for the microscopic observers of
the animal economy, but they must learn to entertain a little
more respect for such as take a more
enlarged view of nature
than themselves. The investigations of the former extend no
hrther than the mere structure and functions ofthe various or-
gans; and all this is very good, and very useful to know. ~
But
man and other animals possess not only various organs, but also
amovlng power, a vital principle, without which these organs
would be entirely useless.- The microscopic observers, indeed,
ridicule all inquiry into the manifestations of this principle, as
absurd and useless. Yet I do not hesitate to ailirm that any
system of Physiology is incomplete, which excludes all conside-
ration of these manifestations, which are phenomena of nature,
and a Bt subject for philosophical investigation. What should
we think ofthe wisdom of that philosopher, who, in attempting
to communicate an adequate idea of the operation of the steam-
engine; should content himselfwith a mere description of its
mechanism,-of its wheels and levers, and cylinders, and pistons,
-keeping entirely out of view the moving power-the steam,
and rldiculing all investigation into the nature, application, and
phenomena of this power ?
In the Preface to the first edition of M. Magendie's Com-
38 IN'|.'BODUUl'l0N.'
whose successful labours in this department of
knowledge have been recently laid before the pub-
pendium of Physiology, the author sets out by observing, that
his prindpll object in compodng the work was "
to contribute
to the introduction of the Baconian method of induction into
Physiological science ;" and on the 89th and 90th pages of the
fourth edition of Dr Milliganh Translation, there occurs the
only reference which Magendie has been pleased to make tu
she' suhiect of Animal Magnetism. It is as fouows =_
"
The professors of magnetism, and particularly those of Ger-
many, speak a
great deal of a sense which is present in all the
others, which wakes when they sleep, and which is displayed
more
especially in sleep-walkers ; those persons receive from it
the power of pralicting events. The instinct of animals is
formed by this sense; and it enables them to foresee dangers
which are near. It resides in the bones, the bowels, the gan-
glion, and the plexus of the nerves- To answer such reveries
would be a mere losing of time."
Thisisalhsohras I haveobserved, thatM. Magendiehas
condescemied to say about Animal Magnetism ; a
ludicrously
imperfect allusion to one of those hundred theories which have
bsmputforth withaviewtoaccountihracertahxclassofphe-
nomens. On the subject ofthe phenomena themselves heis
quite silent. Now, I would ju! take the liberty of asking H.
Magendie, inwhat part ofthewrltings ofBacon he hashund s
single panage which, eitha directly or by implimtion, can war-
rant us in excluding from 'philosophy the consideration of any
class of mets which have been established by incontrovertlble
evidence, and of the reality of which every intelligent man may
satisfy himself by experiment and .observation P Lord 'Bacon
was not quite such a blockhead as some of his pretended disciples
would make him.
Inoneofhisnotes to theworkofllf. Magendio, Dr Milligan
observesthat "slsspwalbsrsaford a mostporplexingobjectof
study." Now, surely that labour is notuseles, thattime is not
milpent,which areoocupied in attemptingtolmravelthlsper-
plexity, in the true spirit of the Bacosian philosophy, by col-
lecting and classifying the &et|.
INTRODUCTION. 89
lic, will be honourahly distinguished by posterity.
But although much has been already done for this
science, in the way of collecting materials for its
future improvement, a great deal still remains to
be performed, before it becomes capable of afford-
ing us a just and comprehensive insight into the
human constitution, and the action, sympathies,
and susceptibilities of the various parts of the vital
economy. __Some very interesting discoveries, in-
deed,_have been made ; but the attempts to gene-
ralize the facts discovered have been founded upon
too limited an induction, and the theories which
have resulted from these imperfect generalizations
have consequently been too partial and exclusive
Hence we are still so far from having hitherto ar-
rived at a
knowledge of that important link which
connects the phenomena of nature-mind and mat-
ter. To me, indeed, itis quite incomprehensible
how the interesting inquiries of the enlightened
professors of Animal Magnetism, upon the Conti-
nent, should have been so
entirely overlooked and
neglected in this country, and such a truly ludi-
CPODB, ifnot absolutely disgraceful, ignorance of the
'whole subject should still be allowed to prevail
among professional men. Setting aside all theory,
the various important and undoubted facts which
have been brought to light by that practice, are not
only exceedingly curious in themselves, but are,
40 .
inrnonucrxou.
moreover, 'calculated to open up many new views
in-physiological science, and to explain many ob-
scure passages in the book of Nature. The mul-
titude of these indisputable facts, now accumulated
by the intelligent disciples of the doctrine, afford
the most overwhelming answer to the reiterated,
ignorant parrot-cries of quackery and imagination.
Physicians of the very highest eminence have borne
the strongest testimony to the reality and import-
ance of this discovery, and have anticipated from
it the most valuable accessions to their professional
lrnowledge.*
I am
perfectly willing to agree with those who
hold that all our knowledge ought to rest ultimate-
ly upon Physicsfa science which embraces, or
'
The name and reputation of the celebrated Dr Hufeland,
Physician to the King of Prussia, is, or
ought to be, well known
to every professional gentleman in this country ; and no one ac-
quainted with the character and writings of this practical phy-
sician, will accuse him of any deficiency of scientific acquire-
ments, or of any predisposition to enthusiastic feelings. I pre-
sume, then, that the opinions ofa man so eminent, and inevery
respect so well qualilied, will be allowed to have some
weight
even with those who are themselves indisposed to investigation,
and prefer an indolent scepticism to the labour of enquiry.
Now, in his illustrations of and additions to Dr Stieglitz's Ideas
upon Animal Magnetism, Dr Hufeland observes. "
We stand
before the dawning of a new day for science and humanity,-a
new discovery, surpassing any that has been hitherto made,
which promises to aiford us a key to some of the most recondite
secrets of nature, and thus to open up to our view a new world."
-|- Is it necessaryto remind anypersons pretendingtothechs-
xsrnenuerres- 41
ought toemhrace, all nature. But our
prevailing
physical theories have been _recently described,
psrhapspwith _toomuch ustice, as "merely ingeni-
ous methods, of no other utility than to facilitate
the calculation of results."' Hitherto thescienee
of,Physics has been unable to discover the element
of motion, and, new abandons the research as fruit-
less. Physiology, too, is ignorant of what IW-real-
ly_is, and yet pretends to explainyits phenomena-;
and Psychology, not _knowing in what manner the
faculties arepunited to the organisation,
is compelled to investigate the operations of the in-
tellect, as if they were performed altogetheréinde-
pendently of the body; whereas they are only ma-
nifested, in the ordinary state of existence, through
the intermediate agency of the _corporeal organs;
and Nature nowhere exhibits to_ our
A visual perf
captions_a soul acting without a
body. _
_
Now, in the course of this volume, I shall have
occasion to dilject the attention of my readers_ to Aa
rscter of philosophers, that 'the term Physica is derived fiom a
Greek word (cum) signifying Nature? How, then, do they
pruned to limit it to matter and mechanism? Are not the
phenomena of Spirit as
_much a part of nature as those of
Hmm'
'
'_ '
seeznqarnpmgu Pgymzogaqu, par c. Chardel. Paris,
1§8l. Ins subsequent part of this volume, I shalltake the li-
berty of laying .the
ingenious writings of this author more
largely umlereontribution. _
'-YOLI. p-
n
4-2 IFTBODUUHOK
number of new and most important facts-facts,
too, to which snmcient attention does not seem to
have been paid, especially by medical men, in this
country-relative to the more remarkable powers,
sympathies, and snseeptibilitios of the human or-
ganism, and to the energies and occasional mani-
festations of the vital functions. These facts are
clear and unambiguous in themselves, and their
reality hes been flenronstrated by numerous and
decisive experiments; they are
consequently sup-
ported by the most unimpeachable evidence, and
must ultimately, in my humble opinion, greatly
modify, if not entirelychange, the whole aspect of
the science."
~
With regard to Psychology, or that science which
treats of the nature and functions of the immate-
rial, or spiritual, or vital principle, which animates
and governs the organism, I hope to be able to
bring forward a numerous class of facts, of a cha-
racter perhaps still more important, and certainly
more interesting to science and to humanity.-f
'
The microscopic philosophers need be no alarm.
Their labours are useful, and we respect them, and require only
the same respect 5-om them. The object of their investigation
is matter,-ours is spirit, and the manifestations of spirit. Our
pathsare citubrent, and why shonlflwetum ankle toqnlrrel with
each other? The objectsofsclenoeare sumdentlynumerous to
mlfhrd occupation tosll,andsuBclentlysepardedto prevent
the necessity of perpetual collision. ~
1- Our investigations, however, must not be confounded with
those of the mere metaphysicient He dwells in the region of
nnaonucmon; 4-3
It is a
complaint as old, at least, as the days of
Cudworth, that, in their psychological researches,
mat individuals seemed disposed to give an undue
bias to the principles of materialism; and Bishop
Berkeley asks, "
Have not Fatalism and Sadducism
gained ground during the general passion for the
corpnscularian and mechanical philosophy, which
hath prevailed for about a eentury?" The later
falcts and speculations of Lord Monboddo, other-
wise calculated to revive the study of Spiritual
Philosophy, appear to have made little or no per-
manent impression upon the minds of philosophers.
There is no doubt, indeed, that, for a considerable
period, our
psychological theories have in general
displayed a decided leaning towards materialism;
they have too much disregarded the manifestations
of the vital principle-the m mmf,-and relied
too exclusively upon the mere acts of the material
organization, as if there were nothing else deserv-
ing investigation. Hence, by a
verypartial and
perverse examination of human nature, many phi-
losophers and physiologists were induced to con-
clude, that the soul-if indeed any such _hypothe-
tical could be rationally presumed to exist-
þÿ|m5¢¢ld$||B-Dd ¬BdB8VOI;l'lD0
reduce thesstotlm cleaness
of lnstllenultlcal axioms ; we are occupied with facts and obser-
vations tending to demonstrate, and, if possible, explain the
manifestations of the spiritual principle; his proofs are lugcal;
sun ue derived entirely from experience.
44 INTRODUCTION;
was iliseparably connected with the body-that it
was the mere product or
ofspring of organization
-that both grew 'up to maturity together, ekisted
in indissoluhle union, and perished at one and -the
same moment of timed* _
' `
'_ These opinions are very old; they are of Pagan, not of
Christian, origin. `The doctrine, with the reasons which led to
the belief of it, is thus stated by Charles Blount, and subse-
quently plagiarised by other writers, in his Treatise entitled
Aism Mum.
' i
"
As first to behold the soul in its inlincy very weak, ahd
then by degrees with the body to grow daily more and more
vigorous, 'till it arrived to its perfection, fiom which state to-
gether with the body it deélined, till the decrepitude of thenone
and dotage of the other, made it seem to them probable that
both should likewise perish together e _
Gigni pariter cum
corpnre, ot una
V
_
Crescere sentimus, pariterque senesesrs mentem."
Other ancient and modern poets have dilated upon the mme
idea. Thus Senech,`the Tragedlam _
»
Post mortem nihil estpipssqus more nihil.
`
More individua est noxia corpori,
Nec parosns snimae.
'
_
Toti
morimur, nnllsquo para manet noetri.
And the same sentiment is re-echoed by Voltaire :
Est-ea la cs Raion de l'E|senes supreme,
Que l'on nous
paint si lumineux ? _
p
Est-ca la est Fmprit |ll'ViYll¢ i nous meme ?
Il nait avec nos sans, croit, fsdbiblit comme 'ani :
Hells I il perira do mqms.
This doctrine was held by some of the Greek hnd other hea-
then philosophers; it was
maintained, amongst others, by the
Jewish sect of the Sadducees, and it was embodied in what has
been called the
Arabian heresy, It seems to have originated
from a want of due attention to the obvious and important dis-
xnrnonucnom 45
But the facts and observations I ani about -to
submit to the serious consideration of my readers;
in this volume, lead us to conclusions precisely the
reverse of this, and are calculated, as I' conceive,
to demonstrate, incontrovértibly, the separate ei-
istence and independent activity of the soul of man,
as well'as its powerful influence over the corporeal
organism; in short, 'that it governs, instead of .be~
ing governed by, the body ;* and thus, by the most
tinctlon between the merely physical and andthe mo-
ral and spiritual nature of man, without which the various
nornena ofthe human constitution cannot be properly compre-
hended and explained- The doctrine, however, although cer-
tainly very sncient, never became generally popular, even in
the heathen world. As Cicero observes,'there always remained
in the minds of men quad wculorum quoddam augurtumfutumnun,
-an intemal presentiment of immortality, which opposed a
stubborn resistance to all the ingenious sophistry of atheism.
The opinion, too, was always philosophically refuted. as often ai
it was
seriously propounded in a
tangible shape. It was'at-
tempted to be revived by many ofthe French philosophers and
up-in forts, 'previous to the first revolution, and even infected
some thinking people among ourselves. I trust, however, that
we have no reason, at present, to express ourselves in the Ian-
guage of an old and learned writer: "
Surely we are fallen into
an declining from God, in which many are fond of those
things which lead us thrthest from Him; and the rabble of
athelstical epicurean notions, which have been so ohen routed,
and have Bed before the world, are now faced about, and afresh
recruited, to assault this present generation."-Sm C. Women-
LII; Unroaoonablmen
ofdtheina, p. 37.
°
Spiritua intus slit; totamque infusa per artus
Mem agitat molom.;Vn.ou..
Some of the ancient philosophers ascribed much greater in-
46 mnwnvcrioln
ample and irrefragable evidence, to set for ever at
rest that apparently interminable controversy be-
tween the Materialists and the Spiritnalists-that
quaestcb vexata, as it has been called-which has been
the great opprobrinm of philosophy, from the earli~
eat dawn of science even to our own times.
.This indeed is perhaps the meet intersting dis-
covery, in a scientific point of view, which has hi-
thertoresulted from the investigations of the pro-
fessors of Animal Magnetism-a study which, it
win thus be pemivsa, is of an very highest im.
portanee, not to medical science only, but to gene-
ral philosophy.
'
With regard to the therapeutic department of
Animal Magnetism, it cannot be expected that I
should enter at any great length into its details,
beyond a mere emnneration of the conditions, a de-
scription of the processes, and e statement' of their
attested etlicacy. A dry narrative of cases of treat-
ment, and a still drier list of cures and failures-
for both have been amply recorded-however ac-
ceptable to the gentlemen of the medical profession,
could possess little interest for the general reader.
With a reference, therefore, to the numerous works
fluence to the soul, as the poet, Spenser, bl expressed their
doctrine in the following eouplet : -
"
Forofthesoulthebodyfofmdohhkeg
"
lfor»uli|£orl,|nddetlth|body|nako."
mraonucnow. 47
in which these cases are to be found nrinntely re»
corded, it may be almost sumcieut for me to ob-
serve at present, that, by means of a few apparent-
ly insignificant manipulations, or even
by an ener-
getic exercise of the volition, accompanied by a
vehement desire to relieve the aEeted, diseases of
the moat inveterate and obstinate nature, which
had previously hamed all the ordinary resources of
medical skill, have-been radically cured, or
great-
ly alleviated, and the patient, according to the na-
tnre of the particular case, has been restored to
perfect- or
comparative health and strength. This
nanative emcaey of the processes might be demon-
strated by the most ample and most satisfactory
evidence. In the mean time I shall take the liber-
ty ofmerely alluding to one or two facts.
The judicious Dr Wienholt of Bremen, a
physi-
cian of great respectability, and in extensive prac-
tice, who had long been sceptical in regard to the
alleged eicaey of the magnetic treatment, was at
length induced by circumstances to make trial of
it, and the following account of his own ex-
"
It became every day more and more evident
to me, that, in the phenomena produced by the
magnetic treatment, there was manifested the in-
fluence of a hitherto unknown agent, and that it
was impossible to ascribe them either to mechani-
48 xnraonucrlon.
cal excitation, or .to moral effects, as their source.
But I found a still more valuable and _more inte-
resting reward .of my perseverance,.in the success-
ful and complete termination of many serious and
invjeterate diseases, where myart failed me, and I
could derive no aid from it in future.
<" The best encouragement Isexperienced was in
the successfulandradical cure of my own child, a
_boynear six years old. Forsomc years jhe had
been almost constantly in a
complaining state, and
.amicted with many ailments, especially of the sto-
mach, which appeared 'to be of a
spasmodic kind.
At length, when he had attained his sixth year, he
exhibited symptoms which led me to apprehend
confirmed epilepsy; and now, all my, previous
efforts had failed, I resorted to Magnetism, of the
eilicacy of which I had already acquired suilicient
experience. His mother undertook the treatment.
In a few days he. became somnambulist, and mani-
fested precisely the same phenomena, al-
'lowance for his age, as other patients ,who have
been placed in the same state; In a few weeks he
was cured, continued subsequently free _from all
those spasmodic attacks, and at this moment. the
model of a strong and healthyiyouth.
"
The cases in which, during a- series of years, I
have either _
administered Animal 'Magnetism my-
self, or caused it to he _-administered by others,
INTRODUCTION. 49
amount now to between 75 and 80. By far the
greatest number of these cases consisted of diseases
in which I could obtain no relief, or, at the utmost,
a very equivocal alleviation, from the ordinary me-
dical treatment-4iiseases of various kinds, acute
and chronic, nervous and other tedious complaints.
Among the patients there were
persons of every
age, rank, and sex, married as well as unmarried.
In the cases of several of these patients, no other
phenomenon was observed but a state similar to
sleep; in others, there was feverish excitement; in
many there were
disagreeable and painful feelings,
and in not a few convulsions. These reactions
either appeared singly, or, as in most cases, in com-
bination. I had frequent opportunities, too, to ob-
serve the phenomenon of Somniloquism, with all
its various shades and attributes; although this
state has occurred much more seldom in my expe-
rieneothan it is said to have done in that of others.
I have seen it in grown persons, as well as in chil-
dren, in males as well as in females, in the married
and in the unmarried. In many patients, however,
Magnetism produced no
perceptible symptoms, and
the complaints abated during the process of mani-
pulation, or the patients were restored to health by
this treatment, without my being able to discover
the cause. But not all of the magnetized patients
vor.. 1. E
50 INTROUUUIION.
recovered. Many- continued in the same state as
before the treatment; others found only an allevia-
tion of their suilhrings; nay, some died. In some
the cure was transient; several were only partial-
ly, but many were completely, cured."
In another passage, Wienholt adds: "Above all
things, the competent judge will not overlook the
nature and duration of the diseases which came un-
der treatment. He will soon be convinced, that
by far the greater part of the cases here reported
fall under that class in which the skill of the phy-
sician usually fails, which our forefathers, there-
fore, designated by the significant name of Scanda-
la medicorum, and which even our
present physi-
cians, notwithstanding all the boasted progress
made in the healing art, have not been able to take
out of that predicament."
Captain Medwin, -in his Memoir of Shelley, the
poet, informs us that "
Shelley was a
martyr to a
most painful complaint, which constanltlymenaced
to terminate fatally, and was subject to violent
paroxysms, which to=his~irritable nerves were each
~
see me Preliice nb wmmoms Hmmpaa manual".
Magnetismus, s work which I would earnestly recommend, as
written with great sobriety and 8005 Henle, and by an eminent
practical physician, to every student of Animal Magnetism. In
his magnetic practice, Wienholt was assisted by the Dn'0lbers,
Heinecken, Treviranus, &c. all of whom were perfectly ntiied
of the eiiicacy of the treatment, and the reality of the pheno-
mena. f
INTRODUCTION. 51
a
separate death." Medwin continues, "
I
had seen magnetism practised in India and at Paris,
end, at his earnest request, consented to try its ef-
ficacy- Mesmer himself could not have hoped for
more complete success. The imposition of my
hand on his forehead instantaneously put a
stop to
the spasm, and threw him into a
magnetic sleep,
which, for want. of a better word, is called Som-
nambulism. Mrs Shelley and another lady were
present. The experiment was
repeated more than
once.
"During his trances, I put some
questions to
him. He always pitched his voice in the same tone
as mine. I inquired about his complaint, and its
cure-the usual magnetic inquiries. His reply
was,
'
What would cure me would kill me' (allud-
ing probably to lithotomy). I am
sorry I did not
note down some of his other answers. Animal
Magnetism is, in Germany, confined by law to the
medical professors; and with reason-it is not to
be triiied with
"
............
"
It is remarkable, that,
in the case of the boy Matthew Schwir, recorded
by Dr Tritschler, the patient spoke in French, as
Shelley in Italian. He improvised also verses in
Italian, in which language he was never known to
write poetry. I am aware that, in England, the
phenomena of Animal Magnetism are attributed to
the imagination. I only state those facts that may
52 1N'rnonuc'rroN.
perhaps shake the
ineredulity of the most scepti-
cal."* -
I could easily adduce a host of other eminent
and unimpeachable 'authorities upon this subject;
but I am afraid of exceeding the limits I have pre-
'
A very curious instance of improvisation during the mag-
netic sleep will be found in a work on Animal Magnetism by
Mr Baldwin, British Consul in Egpt.
Iu the Memoir referred to in the text, Captain Medwin adds
that Shelley was sherwards magnetised by a lady, to whom he
addressed some verses, supposed to have been spoken to himself
by his female physician during the operation; and which, al-
though carelessly thrown together, possess a
good deal of that
"
wild and wondrous" charm, mingled with reined sensibility,
which distinguishes the poetical eifusions of that gifted but un-
fortunate genius. V
"
Tn: Maouuxc Lan! 'ro nn. Parrzru.
"
Sleep on l sleep onl forget thy pain;
My hand is on
thy brow,
My spirit on thy brain,
My pity on
thy heart, poor friend ;
And from my ingers flow
The powers of health, and, like a
sign,
Seal thee from thine hour of woe;
And brood on thee, but msy not blend
With thine.
"
Sleep onl sleep on! 1 love thee not;
But when I think that he,
Who made and makes my lot
As full of iiowers as thine of weeds,
Might have been lost like thee ;
And that a hand which was not mine
Hight than have chased his agony,
As I snother's-my heart bleeds
For thine.
`
INTRODUCTION. 53
scribed to myself; and must therefore refer my
readers to the subsequent parts of this work, and
to the writings of those authors whom I shall have
occasion to notice hereafter.
'
In concluding this Introduction, I again beg to
be permitted to repeat, what I formerly observed,
that I do not expect my readers to place implicit
confidence in all the statements I shall have occa-
"
Sleep, sleep, and with the slumber of
The deed md the unborn :
Forgst thy life and woe;
Forget that thou must wske for ever;
Forget the world's dull scorn;
Forget lost health, and the divine
Feelings that die in youth's brief morn ;
And forget me-for I can never
Be thine.
"
Like s cloud with A
May shower,
My soul weepe healing rein
On thee, thou withered llower ;
It breathes mute music on thy sleep ;
Its odour calms thy brain!
Its light within thy gloomy brent
Speaks like s second youth
By mine thy being is to its deep
Poslelt.
"
The spell is done. How feel you now?
'
Better.-quite well'_replied
The sleeper.-What would do
You good, when suffering md luke ?
What cure your head md side ?
'
'Twonld hill me what would enre my pain;
And as I must on earth abide
Awhile, yet tempt me not_to break
My chain!
"
54 INTRODUCTION.
sion to make, merely because I may have brought
them forward as facts. I shall honestly lay before
them the evidence in support of these statements,
and thus endeavour, to the utmost of my power,
to place them in a situation to judge for themselves.
I assure the public that I am no proselytising en-
thusiast ;-I have no desire to make converts to
any particular doctrine, but am anxious only to sti-
mulate to inquiry, in order that truth, when ulti-
mately discovered, may be duly acknowledged. In
hort, I do not call upon any of my readers to be-
lieve; I merely solicit their candid attention, and
humbly invite them to think, and investigate, and
decide according to their respective convictions. A
blind credulity, and an obstinate scepticism, are
frequentlyboth the olfspling of ignorance, and both
are equally injurious to our progress towards scien-
tiiic truth.
With regardto myseli§ I expect -neither fame
nor fortune from literary or scientific labour; I
have no
personal interest in the reality of the facts
I am
about to establish ; I am content to act mere-
ly in the humble capacity of a
pioneer, and endea-
vour to clear the way for others more competent
to the task, and more ambitious of the honours and
rewards of successful investigation. Upon this oc-
casion, however, I would remind all those who may
approach the discussion of this interesting but in-
1N'rnonUc'r1oN. 55
tricate subject, in the words of an old and ingeni-
ous English writer, the celebrated Dr Henry More
-that "
exquisite disquisition begets ditlidence;
diilidence in knowledge, humility; humility, good
manners and meek conversation. For mine own
part, I desire no man to take any thing I say upon
trust, without canvassing. I would be thought ra-
ther to propound than to assert: But continually
to have expressed my diflidence had been languid
and ridiculous."
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Nihil compouitum mirumli emu, verum audits scriphqu
tndam._TAcr|us, An. xi. 27.
AN INQUIRY, Svc.
CHAPTER I.
THE name of Animal Magnetism has been
to that organic susceptibility which renders the
nervous system of one individual capable of being
afected, in various ways, by particular processes
performed by another,especially when accompanied
with faith, or, at least, a certain abandonment in
the patient, and with an
energetic efort of volition
on the part- ofthe operator. The same name is also
employed to designate the processes themselves, by
means of which the desired effects are sought to be
produced!
'
The name, Anianalllfagnuian, hasbeenbymany considered
improper, because it conveys no adequate idea of the nature and
extent of the subject; and, also, because it seems to imply
a
questionable theory. This latter objection, indeed, has evi-
dently misled msny ingenious but superficial enquirers, who
60 Amman Macunrxsm.
This definition, however, applies only to the most
ordinary manner in which the effects alluded to are
most frequently developed. But the same or simi-
lar phenomena have been observed to occur, in a
variety of instances, in consequence of the probable
influence of certain organic or
inorganic substances
upon the living organism-nay, sometimes spon~
taneously, or without any apparently adequate
cause; and as all these analogous phenomena are
seem to have conceived that they had demolished the whole
doctrine, and invalidated the whole facts, when they had merely
shewn, like the French Academicians, in 1784, that the existence
of a magnstiajluidof this nature is an improbable hypothesis, and
that, in the present state of our knowledge, we are not war-
ranted ln attributing the effects produced to any species of mag-
netism. But the name which Mesmer was origlnally induced
to glve to his discovery, in consequence of certain circumstances
which shall be explained hereaher, could not now be changed
without considerable inconvenience; nor is it, perhaps, desirable
that it should. Several of the sciences, it may be observed, have
long since out-grown the names by which they were at first de-
signated: As an instance among many, the science of Electricity
was
originally so called from a Greek word signifying Amber.
Whether the phenomena evolved during the processes practised
by Mesmer and his disciples have any thing in them analogous
to Magnetism, is to this day a moot point. The greater num-
ber of the practical magnetisers are decidedly of opinion that
such an analogy does exist. But, really, this is a matter of
comparatively little consequence. It is much easier to classify
these phenomena, than to give an appropriate and entirely un-
objectlonable name to that department of science under which
they Gull to be arranged; especially so long as their cause is ob-
scure or ambiguous. It is of more consequence to science,
however, to collect and classify facts, than to stickle about names,
...Rn, non urba. -
ANIMAL MAGNI-:'r1sM. 61
conceived to depend upon the same
principle, they
have consequently been all included under one ca-
tegory. _
This influence, from whatever cause it may be
alleged to proceed, appears so
very mysterious and
inexplicable, and the effects said to have been pro-
duced by the processes employed seem so
very ex~
traordinary and unaccountable, that the greater
part of physical philosophers, especially in these
later times, have, without sudicient examination,
generally regarded the whole subject, primafacie,
with the utmost scepticism; and many uninformed
persons, seduced by the prejudices of the learned,
have not hesitated to treat it with unbounded ridi-
cule! Nevertheless, it will be shewn in the se-
'
I might give many amusing specimens of this ignorant le-
vity, but out bono? Some will probably occur hereaiter. To
me they have completely demonstrated the truth of the French
poet's observation:
Les plus grsnds foux sont eeux qui ne
pensent pas Petro.
In the mean time, I must be permitted to express my regret
that my friend, Professor Napier, in A late number of the Edin-
burgh Review, should have lent his countenance, and that of the
publication over which he presides, to mere
vulgar clamour,
and affected to sneer at what he, or his contributor, is pleased
to denominate "
the follies of Animal Magnetism." I have no
hesitation in telling Professor Napier, that he who attempts to
hold up to ridicule a scientific subject, of which he is profoundly
ignorant, has but small pretensions to the character of a
philo-
sopher. Indeed. I cannot sudiciently express my astonishment
that a.
gentleman who once boldly undertook the task of ex.
pounding the philosophy of Bacon, should expose his utter igno-
62 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
quel, that manifest traces of the reality of this in-
fluence may be discovered in all ages and amongst
all nations; it has always constituted an element
of popular belief ; it is supported by some striking
rance and contempt of its most elementary principle, by pass-
ing a condemnatory sentence, without previous investigation,
upon s series of iictstentirsly elicited by inductive enquiry ;_
facts, too, which attracted the serious attention of such men as
La Place, Cuvier, Hufeland, Dugald Stewart, and many other
eminent philosophers and physicians. Such conduct merits ge-
neral reprobation; for when incompetent persons are permitted
to erect themselves into judges and oracles in matters of litera-
ture snd science, when adventitious circumstances afford them
opportunities of influencing popular opinion, and when they
proceed, at once, to decide upon the character and value of par-
ticular subjects, without condescending to enquire or
having the
capacity to comprehend, they only mislead others, become blind
leaders of the blind, retard the progress of useful knowledge by
discouraging investigation, and thus contribute to perpetuate the
reign of prejudice, ignorance, and error.
.Index dsmnstur cum nocsns absolvitur.
In a subsequent number of the same publication (October
1835, p. 240), it is said, with the same profound and deplorable
ignorance of the subject:
"
In the provinces, a believer in Animal Magnetism or Ger-
man Metaphysics has few listeners and no
encouragement; but
in a
place like London, they make a little coterie; who herd to-
gether, exchange Batteries, and take themselves Rn' the apostles
of a new gospel."
Now, this may, perhaps, be thought a very smart sentence in
the pages of a review; but, in the first place, it is quite clear
that the writer knows just as much of German Metaphysics as
he does of Animal Magnetism-that is, in lict, nothing at all of
either; secondly, it is absolute nonsense in itself; and, thirdly,
so hr as it relates to Animal Magnetism, it isjust the veryre-
verse of the truth. The doctrines and practice of Animal Mtg-
Amusi. MAGNETISM. 68
natural analogies; it has been seriously maintain-
ed in the writings of many profound and ingenious
philosophers; and, -during the last half century, its
existence has been experimentally demonstrated by
such ample and incontrovertible evidence, as
pre-
cludes all rational doubt in the mind of every ho-
nest and intelligent inquirer. _
When a series of experiments, however, has been
instituted and successfully conducted, with the
view of investigating the reality of certain alleged
facts which are of comparatively rare occurrence,
and consequently not immediately obvious to com-
netism were actually proscribed in Paris, Vienna, and other
large cities,-proscribed even by the respective governments, at
the instigation ofthe learned rabble. They were, for a consi-
derable period, cultivated almost exclusively in the provinces:
and it was there that by far the greater proportion of the over-
whelming evidence was collected, which afterwards flowed back
into the diderent capitals, Paris, Vienna, Berlin, &.c., canjying
conviction into the minds of many even of the most obstinate
and prejudiced opponents. But it is unnecessary to dwell upon
facts which are suiilciently well known to all who have enquired
into the subject, with the view ofrectifzving the errors and mis-
representations of those who prefer an
ignorant dogmatism to
philosophical investigation. For my own part, I disclaim all
connexion with any such coterie as that described by the critic,
and of which I doubt the existence; as well as all pretensions to
the character of an apostle of any new gospeL At the same
time, I assure the public, that not even the smartest sayings of
the very smartest of Reviewers, shall ever deter me from in-
vestigating the phenomena of Nature, and endeavouring to dill
fuse the truths she reveals to the humble and conscientious in-
quirer. -
64- ANIMAL Maerwrxsm.
mon observation, it is often exceedingly diflicult
to impress minds, hitherto unprepared for the re-
ception of these particular truths, with an adequate
conviction of the accuracy of the result, or of the
value of the discovery. The difliculty, too, is great-
ly increased. when the phenomena evolved are re-
mote from the ordinary paths of scientific inquiry;
when they are of a nature to excite our wonder,
rather than to satisfy our reason ; and when they
appear to ba$e every elfort to bring them under
any ascertained general laws, or to subject them
to the rules of any previously-recognised philoso-
phical theory. In some instances, indeed, the very
first aspect of the alleged facts is suflicient to in-
sure their immediate rejection. There is always,
it is true, an ample fund of credulity in the world,
accompanied with a ready disposition to believe
any thing that is new, and apparently marvellous,
and incomprehensible. But it is not among the
ignorant and the credulous that the true philoso-
pher looks for a rational approbation of his labours,
or for an accurate appreciation of the truth and
the value of his discoveries. Even men of scienti-
fic and otherwise unprejudiced minds-whose opi-
nions alone can confer credit upon the efforts of
the philosopher-are naturally slow in yielding
their assent to the reality of any series of ingular
phenomena, which do not fall immediately within
ANIMAL MAGNETISH. 65
the sphere of their own habitual investigations,
which seem inconsistent with _the results of their
previous acquirements, and of the conditions of
whose existence they are
yet necessarily ignorant.
Nor is this caution perhaps prejudicial, in the end,
to the interests of science, unless when it is allow-
ed to degenerate into downright obstiuacy, or be-=
comes contaminated by the sectarian spirit of party.
Unfortunately for science, however, there are few
minds possessed ofthat philosophical energy, which
enables them to divest themselves of all prejudice,
and to welcome the evidence of truth, from what-
ever
quarter it may approach them.'
In all cases, however, where a class of extra-
ordinary facts is presented to us for the first time,
upon the evidence of others, which we ourselves
have hitherto had no
opportunity of examining,
the rational means of arriving at a ust conclusion
respecting their reality, appear to be,-
1. To consider the nature of the subject, the
'
It has been hitherto the lhte of Animal Magnetism, to have
to contend not only with scientific prejudice, but with profes-
sional interest, with Academies of Sciences and Colleges of Phy-
sicians; in short, with all the great monopolists ot' learning and
wisdom. In such circumstances, itis not a little surprising that
it should have survived until the present day; nay, that it
should recently have started up, like Antaeus, from the earth,
with renovated vigour. Its ultimate triumph, which is probably
now not fir distant, will afford a most striking proof of the innate
and unconquerable force of truth.
VOL. I. F
66 AIIMAL KAGNBTIBK.
number of the observations and experiments which
have been made, and the analogy of the phenomena
which have been observed to occur in similar cir-
cumstances.
2. To satisfy ourselves with respect to the gene-
ral character, intellectual £tness, and consequent
credibility of the witnesses.
3. To scrutinize the circum tances in which the
various experiments were made, with a view to de-
tect any possible sources of error.
4~. To be assured of the precision and unambi-
guity of the facts themselves, of their dependence
upon the same
principle, and of the rational i|n~
possibility of referring them to more than a
single
cause; and,
'
5. If possible, to repeat, for our own satisfac-
tion, or cause to be repeated in our
presence hy
others, the experiments by which the phenomena
have been elicited, and that in the same circum-
stances, and under the same conditions. *
'
The strictest attention to this last requisite is absolutely
necessary. Attempts have occasionally been made, by the op-
ponents of the system, to throw discredit upon Animal Magne-
tism, in consequence of the alleged failure of certain injudicious
experiments made by ignorant and unskilful persons. This is
most unfair. Are we prepared to peril the reality of the pheno-
mena of Chemistry upon the bungling experiments of some awk-
ward novice, who is utterly destitute of all knowledge_of the ele-
mentary principles of the science, and of the necessary conditions
of successful manipulation ? Do not our most eminent profes-
sors occalionally till in producing the expected result ?
ANIMAL MAGNETl8M» 67
By judiciously following these rules, every in-
telligent and candid enquirer may succeed in ob-
taining complete conviction ; whereas, he who de-
clines to enquire is not entitled to decide.
In proceeding to the execution of the task I have
undertaken in the present publication, however, I
am
quite aware that I may expose myself, in the
eyes of some individuals, to the charge of draw-
ing _largely upon the credulity of my countrymen.
For such a
charge, indeed, I am
fully prepared,
and do not eschew it; but, fortunately, I may share
the burden with a numerous host of individuals of
far higher attainments and scientific reputation
than any to which I can
pretend; while I may hope
to find the weight diminish, in proportion as know-
ledge extends. My sole object is to ascertain the
truth in an important subject of inquiry; and this
can only be done by an examination of the evi-_
dence applicable to the diferent points of the case.
And here I may take the opportunity of declaring,
that I shall bring forward no facts, as such, unles
they be sulliciently attested by men of unimpeach-
able veracity ;-men abundantly qualified by their
scientific habits and attainments, by their perspi-
cacity and cautious spirit of research, for investi-
gating the reality of the circumstances which they
profess to have witnessed;-and who, besides, could
have no motive for deception, no conceivable inte-
68
`
ANIMAL MaeNl:'r1sM.'
rest in the practice of imposition, ortho propaga-
tion of falsehood;-even if the high respectability
of their characters, and their 'responsibility towards
the public, did not constitute a sufficient security
against 'any suspicion of the kind. I may be al-
lowed to add, that I have myself produced, and
,consequently witnessed, several of the phenomena
described in the following pages, and that un-
der circumstances in which no
deception was
pos--
sible; and the minute correspondence of the facts
which have fallen under my own observation with
those recorded in the experiments of more
prac-
tised manipulators, induces me to place entire con-
fidence in the evidence for those other phenomena
which I have had no
opportunity of verifying by
direct experiment. My object, however, at pre-
sent, is not so much to force conviction upon the
unwilling minds of the careless, or the obstinately
incredulous, as to solicit the earnest attention of
the philosophically inquisitive to a
subject of ra-
tional and most interesting inquiry; and, it' pos-
sible, to excite a
corresponding spirit of investiga-
tion amongst all the genuine and liberal friends of
truth and science.
The reader is requested to observe, that no sub-
ject of questionable theory is now to be propounded
to him. Our business, at present, is with mere
matters of fact; and these matters of fact he must
Axmu. Macrmrxsu. 69
admit or reject, either on the incontrovertible evi--
dence of competent observers, hereafter to be ad-
duced, or on the testimony of his own
experience.
All _that is required of him is, that he shall bring
to the investigation of the subjects to be submitted
to his "consideration, that candour of mind, and
that perfect freedom from prejudice and prepos-
selsion, which we ought to preserve in all our re-
searches alter truth. Indeed, I would strongly re-
commend to all who apply themselves to the inves-
tigation of this subject, to abstain, in the mean
time, from any attempt to explain the facts pre-
sented to their notice upon the principles of any
preconceived theory, or of any theory whatever.
It were best, in the present state of our knowledge,
to confine ourselves to the observation and classi-
fication of the authenticated phenomena. It is the
facts, and the facts alone, which ought to engage
all our attention in the first instance; and these, as
has been already observed, we are hound to admit
or
reject, upon such evidence as we conceive to be
satisfactory, or unsatisfactory, in the peculiar cir-
cumstances of the case.
Moreover, I feel it indispensably necessary to
warn the reader, again and again, against the ab-
solute and precipitate rejection of any alleged fact,
without adequate investigation, merely becau e it
mayappear to him to be extraordinary, unaccount-
'70 ANIMAL Mscusrrlsu.
able, improbable, incredible, or even miraculous *;
or because the means employed seem, at first sight,
incapable of producing the particular effects. a
Let
him remember that le vrai ne'est pas toagburs le vrai-
semblable ; that Nature is wonderful and inexhaust-
ible in her manifestations, whilst our faculties of
perception and comprehension are limited; and
that there are many facts in science which we are
compelled by evidence to admit, although we are
unable to discover the principle which i active in
their production. What do we know, for example,
of the real cause of the phenomena of mineral mag-
netism, of electricity, of galvanism, of gravitation;
-of the susceptibility of disease in the animal or-
ganization ;-of infection ;-of the salutary opera-
tion of many medicinal drugs, &c.? If no facts, in-
deed, were to be admitted in science, but such as
could be immediately traced to a certain and satis-
' "
Les miracles sont selon Pignorance en quoi nous sommes
de la nature. non selon l'estre de ls nature.
"
Il ne faut pas juger ee qui est possible et ee qui ne Pest
pas selon ce qui est croyable ou incroyable a notre sens; et est
une grande fhute, en laquelle la pluspart des hommes tombent,
de faire diiiiculté de croire d'autrui ee qu'eux ne sauroient ou
ne voudroient faire."-Mox'raxeNE.
A celebrated philosopher (Bayle) has said _with reason :
"
0n
ne prescrit point contre la verité par la tradition generals, ou
par le consentement unanime des tous les hommes." Another
sage (Averroés) had previously declared, that "
a whole army of
doctors was not capable of changing the nature of error, and of
converting it into truth."
Amman macusnsu. 7]
factory principle as their cause, our whole know-
ledge would be confined within exceedingly nar-
row bounds. * .
' "
In every scientific investigation, it must be kept in
mind, that eilicient causes are beyond our reach. The objects
of our research are physical causes only, by which we mem no-
thing more than the uniform sequences of events, as ascertain-
ed by extensive observation. What we call the explanatiounof
phenomena, consists in being able to trace distinctly all the links
of such a chain of sequences, so as to perceive their uniform
relation to each other. Thus, there may be many instances in
which we are acquainted with facts forming part of such a chain,
and me stished that they are so connected, while we cannot
explain their connexion. This is occasioned by the want of
some fact which forms an intermediate part of the chain, and
the discovery of which would enable us to see the relationof
the whole sequence, or, in common language, to explain the
phenomena. Such a chain of ihcts was, at one time, presented
by the rise of water in a vacuum to the height of thirty-two
feet. The circumstances were well known, as well as their uni.
form relation, that is to say, the thot of a vacuum -the fact of
the water rising-and the iisct of this uniformly taking place.
But the phenomenon could not be explained; for an interme-
diate fact was required to show the manner in which these
known facts were connected. The doctrine of nature abhorring
a vacuum aforded no explanation, for it furnished no fact; but
the fact required was supplied by the discoveries of Torricelli
on
atmospheric pressure. The chain of events was then filled
up, or, in common language, the phenomenon was accounted
for.
"
There are, indeed, many cases in which the investigation
of intermediate events in the chain of sequences is beyond our
reach. In these, we must be satisfied with a
knowledge of the
facts, and their actual connexion as we observe them, without.
being able to trace the events on which the connexion depends,
This happens in some of the greet phenomena of Nature, such
as gravitation and magnetism. We know the facts, but we ceh.
'72 ANIMAL Macunrxsn.
I may here observe, that the most eminent phi-
losophers-those who have made the most pro-
found researches into the laws and operations of
Nature-are generally the most disposed to speak
with becoming modesty of such facts as they them-
selves have had no
opportunity of investigating,
and of which they can
only judge from the evi-
dence of others, and from known analogies. In
proof of this, I may refer to the following remarks
of the most illu trious disciple of Newton, which
are
peculiarly applicable upon the present occasion.
The celebrated M. de Laplace, in his Essai sur les
Probabilités, observes, that "
of all the instruments
we can
employ, in order to enable us to discover
the imperceptible agents of nature, the nerves are
the most sensible, especially when their sensibility
is exalted by particular causes. It is by means of
them that we have discovered the slight electricity
which is developed by two heterogeneous metals.
The singular phenomena which result from the
extreme sensibility of the nerves in some indivi-
duals, have given birth to various opinions relative
to the existence of a new agent, which has been
denominated Animal Magnetism, to the action of
the common magnetism, to the iniiuence of the
not account for them; that is, we are ignorant of certain inter-
mediate fscts, by which those we do know are connected to-
gether."-Anzacaouml, Inquiries concerning the Intsllcotual
Powers, 4th edition, pp. 413-415.
mann. nacmarism. 'YS
sun and moon in some nervous afections, and,
lastly, to the impressions which may be experienced
from the proximity of the metals, or ot' a running
water. It is natural to suppose, that the action of
these causes is very feeble, and that it may be easi-
ly disturbed by accidental circumstances; but be-
cause in some cases it has not been manifested
at all, we are not entitled to conclude that it has
no existence. We are so far from being acquaint-
~ed with all the agents of nature, and their diffe-
rent modes of action, that it would be quite un-
philosophical to deny the existence of the pheno-
mena, merelybecause they are
inexplicable in the
present state of our
knowledge. It becomes us,
however, to examine them with an attention the
more scrupulous, in proportion as we find it more
didicult to admit them; and it is here that the cal-
culation of probabilities becomes indispensable, in
order to determine to 'what degree we ought to
multiply our observations and experiments, with a
view to obtain, in favour of the agents which they
seem to indicate, a
probability superior to the rea-
sons we may have for rejecting them."
The late justly celebrated Baron Cuvier, too,
(un authority not to be treated lightly in a matter
of this kind) has, in the second volume of his Ana-
voL. x. G
74 ANIMAL HAGNETIBK.
tomie Comparée, expressed his opinion, in regard to
Animal Magnetism, in the following terms :-" I
must confess that it is very diflicult to distinguish
the effect of the imagination of the patient from
the physical eifect produced by the operator. The
eifects, however, which are produced upon persons
already insensible before the commencement of the
operation, those which take place in others after
the operation has deprived them of sensibility, and
these which are manifested by animals, do not per-
mit us to doubt that the proximity of two animat-
ed bodies, in certain
position and with certain mo-
tions, has a real effect, independently of all parti-
cipation of the imagination of one of them. It
seems sufiiciently evident too,ethat these effects are
owing to some sort of communication which is es-
tablished between their nervous systems."
I shall have occasion hereafter to refer to the
opinions expressed upon this subject by the late
Professor Dugald Stewart, and by other eminent
philosophers and physicians. In the mean time, I
may observe, that the foregoing specimens of phi-
losophical judgment present a
striking contrast to
the supercilious, disingenuous, and irrational me-
thods by which the greater number of the antago-
nists of Animal Magnetism have -attempted to dis-
credit the discoveries of the professors of that doc-
ANIMAL FIAGNETISIL '75
trine, and to 'discourage and ridicuh all inquiry
into its phenomena! _
°
In an annotation on Southey's Life of Wesley, the Metho-
dist, the late ingenious Mr Coleridge has left us the following
curious record ofhls opinion of Animal Magnetism. It is pretty
much what we might have expected from such a man of inde~
pendent thought and inquiry, who hadderived some
knowledge
of the subject from books and conversation, but was practically
unacquainted with it.
`
~
Mr Coleridge remarks, that "
the coincidence throughout ofall
these methodist caseswith those ofthe magnetlsts, makes me wish
for a solution that would apply to alL Now, this sense orappear-
snce of a sense of the distant, both in time and space, iscommon
to almost all the magnetic patients in Denmark, Germany, France,
and North Italy, to many of whom the same or a similar solution
could not apply. Likewise, manycases have been recorded at the
same time, 'ln different countries, by men who had never heard
ofeach other's names, and where the simultaneity of publication
proves the independence of the testimony. And among the
msgnetisers and attesters are to be found names of men, whose
competence in respect of integrity and incapability of intentional
Manhood is fully equal to that of Wesley, and their competence
in respect ofphysio-psychological insight and attninments, iuwll-
parably greater. Who would dream, indeed, of eompsrlng
Wesley with s Cuvier, Hufeland, Blum bach, Eschenmeyer,
Bail, &c. ? Were I asked what 1 think, my answer would be,
--that the evidence enforces scepticism and I Mn liqwt;-wo
strong and consentaneous for a candid mind to be satisfied of its
tilsehood, or its solvibility on
the supposition of imposture or
casual coincidence; too fugscious and unfixable to support any
theory that supposes the always potential, and under certain
conditions and circumstances, occasionally active, existence of s
oorrespoudentfscultyinthehumm soul. And nothinglesstlum
such sn hypothesis would be adequate to the satiqfcuory explana-
tion of the fhcts; though that of anstastaris of specific functions
of the nervous energy, taken in conjunction with extreme ner~
vous excitement, plus some delusion, plus some llluion, plus some
'76 ANIMAIQ Maeunrrsnf;
"
The essential point," says Nicole, after Aris-
totle, "
when any question arises respecting facts
that are
extraordinary and diiiieult to conceive, is,
not to demonstrate how they exist, but to prove
that they do exist."" '°
We must not-decide," says
Father `Lebrun,_
"
that a
thing is impossible, be-
cause of the common belief that it cannot exist;
for the opinion of man cannot set limits to the
operations of nature, or to the power of the Al~
mighty."1'
~
A -
'There is no doubt that, when phenomena of an
extraordinary character are
presented to us for the
first time, to which we can
perceive nothing ana-
imposition, plus some chance and accidental coincidence, might
determine the direction in which the scepticism should vibrate.
Nine years has the sub§ect of Zoo-Magnetism been before me.
I have traced it historically, collected a mass of documents in
French, German, Italian, and the Latinists of the sixteenth
century, have never neglected an opportunity of questioning
eye-witnesses, ur. gr. Tieck, Trevlranus, De Prati, Meyer, and
others of literary or medical celebrity, and I remain where I
was, and where the first perusal of Kluge's work had leitme,
without having moved an inch backward or forward. The re-
ply of Trev'1ranus,_ the famous botanist, to me, when he was in
London, is worth recording :._IohhabegeuI|an was (Ich win 468)
Ich nicht wilrde geglaubthaben auf ihren Erxiihlung, &c.-' I have
seen what I am certain I would not have believed on your tell-
ing; and in- all reason, therefore, I can neither expect nor wish
that you should believe on mine! "-Couznxnen ; Table-Talk,
voi. i. pp. 107, &c. p
'
Nrcom: ; Oeuvrea, tom. vii. let. 46, p. 238.
`
-1- Hitt. Crit. da Supant. 1. i. ch. 7.
I
smmsx. Macunrism. 77
logous in our previous knowledge, it is quite natu-
ral that we should require much stronger evidence
to convince us of their reality, than in the case of
facts of more ordinary occurrence, and of easier
explanation! Here, indeed, it is the duty of the
philosopher to proceed _with great caution, and to
suspend his belief until he shall have obtained evi-
dence of a character and weight suflicient to satis-
fy his judgment, and to remove every reasonable
doubt. But when such satisfactory evidence has
once been obtained, we can no longer continue to
withhold our assent, without totally abandoning
the use of our reason, and surrendering our minds
to the perverse dominion of an irrational scepti-
cism.
° "
In the acquisition of facts, we depend partly upon our own
observation, and partly on the testimony of others. The former
.source is necessarily limited in extent, but it is that in which
we have the greatest confidence; for, in receiving facts on the
testimony of others, we require to be satisded, not only of the
vencity ofthe narrators, but also ot' their habits as
philosqphical
observers, and of the opportunities which they have had of as-
certaining the facts. In the degree of evidence which we ze-
quire for new facts, we are also influenced, as was formenly
stated, by their probability, or their accordance with facts pre-
viously known to us; and, for facts which appear to us impro-
bable., we require a
higher amount of testimony, than for those
in accordance with our previous knowledge. This necessary
caution, however, while it preserves us from eredulity, should
not, on the other hand, be allowed to engender scepticism; for
hoth these extremes are equally unworthy of a mind which de-
votes itself with candour to the discoveiy of truth."-Ann-
clolllrl; Inquirh oolarahg the Intellectual Powers, p. 878.
78
CHAPTER II.
Tm: effects which are alleged to have been pro-
duced through the influence of that agent which
has been denominated Animal Magnetism, appear
to have hitherto excited little sensation in this
country, excepting as an occasional subject of ri~
dicule. In the case of persons who have never
made any serious inquiry into the subject, the very
extraordinary, and apparently mysterious and un-
accountable, character of the facts, so
startling up-
on a first view, might almost justify the derisiou
with which they invariably seem disposed to treat
them. But he who once enters into a sober inves-
tigation of these facts, and becomes, in some degree,
aware of their number, their universality, the con-
ditions under which they occur, their analogy with
each other, and the super-abundant evidence which
exists in favour of their reality, must soon
perceive
that they merit more serious attention. During
the last half century, numherless experiments have
been made upon the Continent, especially in France
and Germany (where, indeed, the practice has new
Amman MAGN1-:'rrsM. 79
been pretty generally introduced), and a vast va.
riety of cases, of the most remarkable character,
witnessed and recorded, which, if we consider them,
as
they seem entitled to be considered, as well au-
thenticated, will be at once admitted to be of a
highly important nature, whether we
regard them
merely in a medical point of view, or look upon
them as a most interesting and valuable accession
to our physiological and psychological knowledge.
These experiments, too, have been conducted, not
by ignorant empirics alone,* as is too generally
supposed, but chiefly, as will be seen in the sequel,
although not limited to them, by professional gen~
tlemen of leaming, talents, and high respectability,
whose characters hold out suilicient security against
all suspicion of deception, even
supposing that, in
'
Itisfrequently thrown outasareproschto AnimalMsg-
nettsm, that it was, at one time, practised principally by em-
pirim and unprofessional persons. The fact is, in some
degree,
true, but the reproach is altogether unmerited. It will beseen
hereafter, that Animal Magnetism was prohibited; that the
doctrine was condemned, and its most enlightened advocates
persecuted bythe profession; and it was natural enough that
the practice. should have fallen into other hands. The reproach
mightprith ihrgreaterjustice, be directed against thosewho,
although they ought to have been the best qualided for the in-
vestigation., neglected the opportunity of extending and im.
proving the discovery, and of rendering it more and more usehil
to science and to humanity. Throughout the entire annals of
scientific discovery, we meet with nothing more mean-spirited,
narrow-minded, and disgusting, than the conduct of the Faculty
of Medicine towards Menuet and his disciples.
80 ANIMAL Masai-:'r1sM.
the particular circumstances, there existed any mo-
tive for deception, or that it had been practicable,
or had been actually attempted.
` '
Before I proceed to the history of this interest-
ing discovery, and to describe the various remark-
able phenomena which have been brought to light
by the magnetic treatment, I conceive it may be
useful to advert brieiiy to certain curious opinions
and customs, which have prevailed, almost univer-
sally, among mankind, in all ages ofthe world,
and therefore would appear to have some
probable
foundation in nature. In what degree they may
be held to be connected with the doctrine of Ani-
mal Magnetism, to be afterwards explained, I may
leave to the judgment of my readers!
°
I understand that the facts I stated, and the observations I
took the liberty of making upon these matters of popular faith,
in the Brst edition of this volume, have called forth a vast deal
of merriment among the wiseacresand witlings in certain quar-
ters (I wish Icould make them at once merry-and wise) ;`and I
havemyself heard an infinite number ofjokes-afew good, many
had, and some indifferent--sported in relation to this and other
subjects connected with the study of Animal Magnetism
Now, I do not in the least regret that I have thus ihmished
a rattle to amnseythese half-grown-up children of science ; most
willingly would I leave them in the undisturbed enjoyment of
their harmless and unmeaning mirth, provided I am permitted
patiently to grape my way along the lowly paths of experience
and "observation, and to cast an humble but not an undisceming
eye upon all that I meet' of the realities of nature. If we are
desirous of making any assured progress in the study ofthe phi~
Iosophy of man, we must not neglect those popular opinions,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 81
There are various simple operations in almost
constant practice among mankind, and performed,
as it Were, instinctively, which, from their very fre-
quency and apparent insignificance, scarcely en-
gage our attention, and consequently give rise to
noreiiection. We find, indeed, a number of float-
ing opinions relative to the object and ellicacy of
some of these seemingly trifling operations, which
have been tran mitted from age to age, until they
have at length been permitted to settle down and
mingle with the elements of popular belief ; but
men of education and science, especially in this
age of intellect, have generally agreed to regard all
such practices with indiH'erence, and to reject all
such opinions with contempt, as the offspring of
mere ignorance and prejudice. Upon due inquiry,
however, it will probably be found, that Nature
never confers a
general instinct without having a
those habits of thinking, those instinctive principles and feelings,
which Nature herself; for the wisest of purposes no doubt, seems
to have originally implanted in the minds even of the rudest of
mankind. These are frequently more valuable as materials for
thought, more fertile in interesting results to the inquisitive
mind, than all the airy speculations of a fanciful philosophy, and
_will be disregarded, despised or derided only hy the self-conceit
ed and the wilfully ignorant.
I will therefore venture to take leave of these laughing phi-
losophersin the vordsofStAustin: Rideutmairtadieentcu, qui
non intelligit ; etsyo doleam ridenlem me-" Let them laugh at me
for of things which they do not understand; and I
must pity them, while they laugh at me."
82 Aimnl. nscnsrxsm.
particular end in view; and it is quite possible that
these -instinctive' practices may have their special
objects, and that the opinions alluded to may con-
stitute the surviving relics of some rude branches
of knowledge, cultivated in remote periods of so-
ciety, which have been almost entirely swept away,
and nearly obliterated from the records of human
aequirements, leaving but a few faint traces of their
former prevalence behind, in popular superstition,
and the deeply-rooted prejudices of the vulgar.
In all ages, a certain medicinal virtue has been
ascribed to the touch of the human hand, to the
placing of it upon a sick person, or
using it as a
topical remedy, by rubbing with it any part of the
body which may happen to have been injured.
This fact is familiar to all of us from our
infancy,
although little attention appears to have been hi-
therto paid to this instinctive operation, and scarce-
ly any attempt has been made to assign a reason
for the soothing influence of the process.
Natural instinct prompts a patient to apply his
hand to any part of his body in which he feels pain.
If he should happen to have received a blow, or
any local bodily injury, the hand in tinctively
moves towards the suffering part, and probably
rubs it gently. In the same manner, in the case
of a headach, a colic, &c. we
naturally seek relief
from the application of the hand to the region where
aanux. mscuarxsu. 88
the pain is felt. In similar complaints, too, we fre-
quently experience relief from the same operation
performed by another, with the view of alleviating
the painful sensation. This process is well known
and appreciated in the nursery, where it is often
resorted to by attendants upon children. When a
child has been injured, or is otherwise suffering
bodily pain, it usually runs to its mother or its
nurse, who places it on her knee, presses it to her
breast, applies her hand to the part affected, rubs
it gently, and in many cases soothes the painful
sensation, and sets the child asleep.
This process indeed appears to be sometimes
adopted, not merely with the view of alleviating
any particular painful sensation, but as a
general
corroborant and preservative of the health. In
some parts of Bavaria, we are informed that the
peasants regularly rub their children from head to
foot, before putting them to bed; and they are of
opinion that this practice is attended with salutary
consequences. The mode of taking the bath among
the Oriental nations, accompanied with friction,
and pressing the diE`erent parts of the body (cham-
pooingj, produces a refreshing, invigorating, and
highly agreeable feeling, occasions a
slight perspi-
ration and gentle slumber, and cures, or at least
alleviates, many diseases. In investigating the
customs of different countries, we sometimes stum-
84- ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ble upon practices still more' analogous to the mag-
netic processes. The author of the Philosopliie Cor-
puscvllaire informs us, that a
family exists in the
mountains of Dauphiné, who have been in the ha-
bit cf magnetising, from father to son, for centu-
ries. Their treatment, he adds, consists in con-
ducting the great toe along the principal ramilica-
tions of the nerves.
Professor Kieser* mentions
_that a similar mode of treatment (called Treten)
has long prevailed in many parts of Germany, for
the cure of rheumatic and other complaints. We
have probably all heard of the virtue ascribed to
the great toe ,of King Pyrrhus.
Long before the discovery, indeed, of what is
now called Animal Magnetism, many eminent phy-
sicians appear to have been perfectly well acquaint-
ed with the edicacy of touching and rubbing, as a
meansof curing diseases. Nay, if we
may credit
'the authority of the anonymous author of the De-
narium Medicum, there were
many ancient physi-
'cians who cured diseases without making use of
any. material remedies, and, as it would appear, in
a manner purely magnetic, corresponding with
that practised in the modern School of Barbarin.
Faerunt, says he, ante Hippocratem multi viri docti,
qui nulla prorsus medicina corpored usi sunt, sed cola
spiritus et animaefacultaze.
~
Kimi; syn" aa 1-.aw-a»m, &.c.vol. 1. p.sai, sea. ml
ANIMAL Mscuarlsn. 85
Michael Medina, in his treatise De recta in Deum
fide, cap. 7. (Venice, 1564), tells us that' he knew
a
boy at Salamanca, who was believed to possess
the gift of communicating health, and who cured
many persons of the most serious diseases merely
by touching them with his hand. 'Thiers, in his
Traité des Superstitions (l. vi. ch. 4), mentions se-
veral monks who were in the practice of curing
diseases by the touch. Athanasius Kircher asserts
that there are some
persons who cure the most ob-
stinate diseases by the mere touch of the hand
(solo attactu incurabiles morbos tollunt quidam).
Pujol, in his work on Trismus, relates a curious
circumstance which occurred during the treatment
of a
patient, »who was aihicted with the disease
called Tic doloureufx. "
Every paroxysm," says
he, f' terminated by the flowing of some tears from
the eyes, and of some saliva from the mouth; but
the patient was obliged to beware of attempting to
dry her eyes and chin upon those occasions, because
the slightest touch increased the acuteness and du-
ration of the pain. In one of these attempts, she
made the discovery, that when she slowly and cau-
tiously approached the points of her fingers to the
suffering part, the fit was much shortened. She
was obliged, however, merely to reach the skin
with the edge of her nails, to touch it as
lightly
and as
rapidly as possible, and then to withdraw
86
A
ANIMAL MAB-NETISM.
them as fast as she could." In consequence of this
superficial contact, she experienced a
painful but
merely momentary itching; upon which there im-
mediately followed a sensation which she compared
to the noise made by the wheels of a clock in strik-
ing the hour, and then the fit terminated!
-
Individuals have at various times appeared in
this country, who have acquired considerable repu-
tation for their skill in reducing obstinate swell-
ings, and curing other diseases, principally of the
joints, by means of friction and pressure; and these
methods have also been frequently adopted in the
cureof rheumatic complaints. But in such cases,
the beneficial effects, it is believed, have generally
been ascribed to the mere friction, and to the in-
ereased local excitement and activity of circulation
thereby produced in the affected parts.
A peculiar and supernatural eiiicscy has been
sometimes ascribed to the touch of particular indi-
viduals. Thus, in England and France, it was an
old belief; that the monarchs of these kingdoms
possessed the power of curing the scrofula (hence
called the King*s Evil) by means of the touch of
'
Pujol regarded Animal Magnetism as a chimem, and con-
sidered the effects ot' this manipulation as merely electrlesl.
Wienholt, however, himself s physician, and one of the most
sensible writers upon_this subject, is disposed to look upon the
matter in a different light, and recommends that the magnetic
treatment should be tried in similar cases.
nuuu. usenmxsu. 87
their hand. This power is said to have been first
ascribed to Edward the Confessor, in England, and
to Philip I. in France. The following was the for-
mula adopted by the kings of France, in manipu-
lating upon such occasions: Le Roi te touche, _Babu
te guerisse. The same
power is said to have been
previously exercised by the Scandinavian princes,
and particularly by St Olaf, who is supposed to
have reigned from 1020 to 1035; so that this tra-
ditional edicacy of the royal touch appears to have
originated in the north of Europe!
'
See Snorro Stur1uson's History qf the Scandinavian Kings.
That the Kings of England, for several hundreds of years,
actually exercised their touch for the cure of scroiixlous com-
plaints, is proved by abundant historical authority; and the
sanative etiicacy of the process is also suiiiciently attested.-See
Ponrnonl Vneu., lib. viii. Hint. Angl. 1; Tonxla, Charisma,
dos donna sanatlonis, &4:. 1697. Mr Wiseman, principal sur-
geon in King Charles First's army, and to
King Charles IL after the Restoration, says:
"
I myself have
been a hequent eye-witness of many hundreds of cures per.
Rmned by his Mqjesty's touch alone, without any assistance of
ehlrnrgeryund those,manyofthem, suchashadtiredoutthe
endeavours of able chirurgeons before they came thither-."..
WullAx's Chimrgiaal Trsalires, vol. i. p. 387. See also Mr
Be¢kett'»z»q»s~yw»m¢A»squuy¢»aim¢¢¢yqf rmhwpr
#lu Cursqfths King's Evil. The method adopted upon these oc-
casions was to accompany the touch with prayer, and to bang a
gold medal about the neck ofthe patient(
Sir William Davenant, in his Tragedy of Macbeth, referring
to the exercise of this power by Charla H. of England, ob-
serves:
"
Haw thisgwd King solicited Haven
Himself best knew: but strangely-visited people,
88 amnu. Macumusm.
These circumstances, relative to the popular be-
lief of the sanative eflicacy of the touch of the hu-
man' hand, accompaniedyas we have seen, with
some evidence of its reality, are
certainly curious.
l am aware that many of the writers upon Animal
The more despair of surgery, he cured,
Hanging a
golden stamp about their necks,
-Put on with holy prayers."
And that very eminent divine, Bishop Bull, assures us of the
truth of this fact, in the following of his fifth sermon :__
"That divers persons, desperately labouring under the King's
Evil, have been cured- by the mere
touch of the Royal hand,
assisted with the prayers of the priests of our church, is unques-
tionable." V
It has been seen, that it was usual, upon these occasions, to
hang a
gold medal about the necks of the patients. To those
who are in the habit of ridiculing the ellicacy of charms, amu-
lets, &c. I would' recommend a serious consideration of the fol-
lowing case, which was related by Mr Dicken, sergeant-surgeon
to Queen Anne, to a respectable physichn.
"
A woman came
to him, begging that he would present her to be touched by the
Queen. As, from her appeal-ance,'he had no great opinion of
her character, he told her the touch would be of little service
to her, as he supposed she would sell her medal, which must con-
tinue about the neck to make the cure
lasting. . She promised to
preserve it ; was touched; had the medal given to her ; and soon
after her sores healed up. Forgetting her promise, and now
looking upon the piece of gold asuseless, she disposed of it; but,
soon after, her sores broke out once more. .
Upon this she ap-
plied to Mr Dicken a second time, earnestly entreating him to
present her again to the Queen. He did so,` and once more she
was cured."-Dousnas, BishopofSal:lsbury ; The Criterion, p. 205.
An analogous anecdote is told by Deleuze, towards the 'con-
clusion of his Defense du Magnetisms Animal. "
A Doctor of
Medicine,»who enjoys a
high reputation, and who will not be
accused, of ignorance, for he is a Professor and a Member ofthe
/mmm. MAGNs'r1»sM. 99
Magnetism do not admit that there is much, if any,
analogy between this mode of cure and the mag-
netic processes. I should not have conceived it
proper, however, to have omitted all notice of the
belief and corresponding practices alluded to; the
more especially as, notwithstanding all the facts
which have been brought forward, and the theories
which have been propounded upon the subject, we
are still confessedly very ignorant of the true causes
which operate in producing the phenomena of Ani-
mal Magnetism; and it has never
yet been correct-
ly ascertained in how far these phenomena may de-
pend upon the physical means employed, or
upon
the psychical influences which are exerted, or de-
veloped, during the treatment. The general, al-
most universal, prevalence of the popular belief re-
specting the existence of the inlluence in question,
appeared to be a circumstance of too much im-
portance to be passed over entirely without notice.*
Academy of Sciences, declared to me that he knew a lady who
was long ailiicted with palpitations of the heart. She was ad-
vised to wear on her breast a hazel-nut, hollowed out, and then
Hlled with mercury, and well stopped. As soon as she began to
wear this amulet, the palpitations ceased. Afterafew days she
thought herself cured, and laid aside the amulet. The pulpi-
tations returned; and the same thing took place during several
yew"
'
hip; 3' 56 ng fipfnv if§>.A.0f|n, {|'| #rua fella)
Ani Qnfdzoufl.
Fam; vero null; pronua pen-it, quam quidem multi
Populi divulgant. Hedodi Opera et Diss, v. 761.
VOL- I. H
90 Amman. mcusrlsu.
Some of the writers upon Animal Magnetism
have been induced to ascribe a great deal of infin-
ence to the human eye; and in this opinion, also,
they appear to be supported by a
very ancient and
generally prevalent popular belief, which, in many
instances, no doubt, may have degenerated into
superstition. This belief, however, appears to have
existed from the earliest times. Pliny informs us,
in his Natural I-Iistory, that a
particular colour of
the eye, and a double pupil (probably meanings
variously-coloured or spotted iris), were- believed
to indicate that the persons having this colour or
conformation of the eye, were peculiarly endowed
with this species of the magnetic virtue!
'
Of all the corporeal organs, there is none which
can be considered so much in the light of an im-
mediate and faithful interpreter of the internal
thoughts, feelings, and emotions, as the eye. It is,
as it were, at once the telescope and the mirror of
the soul. Love, hate, fear, courage, jealousy, in-
nocence, and guilt, are revealed by that powerful
°" "
Ease, adjieit Isigonus, in Triballis et lliyriis, quivisu quo-
que eH'ascinent, interlmantque qucs dlutius intueantur, iratis
precipue oculis: quod eorum malum precipue sentine puberea
Notabilius esse, quod pupillas hinas in singulis oculis habeant.
Hujus generis et faaminas in Scythih, que vocantur Bithyaa,
prodit Apollonides: Philarchus, et in Ponto Thibiorum g6lll5»
multosque alios ejusdem natune; quorum notes tradit in altero
oculc geminsm puplllsm, in altero equi eiilglem." And more to
the same purport.-Plin. Nat. Hint. vii. 2. ~
nuuu. uaeuarrsx. 91'
and delicate organ; every species of passion, in
short, is immediately portrayed in it; and there
is probably no feature in the human countenance
from which we are so much disposed to draw our
inferences, and to form our
opinions, respecting in.
dividual character. Nec enim, says Wierius, ullum
reperakzs in humani cofporisfabrica organum; quod
tanmspirituwncopiascateat,ete.'vquoeorumfulgor
usgue adea emicet, ut de oculi pupilla cerlum est.*
The force and fascination ofthe eye, indeed, have
been always proverbial, and the common belief of
the people has ascribed to this influence many of
those phenomena which are included under the
description of magic and witchcraft.1- The bane-
ful effects of the evil eye are recorded in the vul-
gar traditions of all ages and nations. Hence pro-
bably the derivation of the Latin word Invidia ;
and Virgil clearly alludes to the common
supersti-
tion in his 30th Eclogue, v. 118:-
'
De Prastigiis Daemonum, lib. c. 49.
-f The mighty mind of Bacon did not disdain, like many of
our physical philosophers of the present day, to grapple with
this interesting subject. This great philosopher defines fascin-
tiun to be "
the power. and act of imagination, intensive upon
other bodies than the body of the imaglnmt." The reality of
this influence he does not seem disposed to deny; for, after re-
marking that the school of Paracelsus, and the disciples of na.
tural mag-lc, had too much exalted this power of the imagination,
he observes, that "
others, that draw nearer to probability, call.
ing to their view the secret passages of things, and specially of
92 ANIMAL xseurrxsm.
~
Nexio quis teneros oculus inihi fascinat agnos.
According tothe accounts of' recent travellers, the
Indians are to this day convinced that many dis-
eases are generated merely by an evil look. In
Captain Lyon's Travels in Northern Africa, it is
observed, that amongithe Arabs, the evil eye is of all
mischiefs the most dreaded; and for a
stranger to
express particular admiration of a child, a horse, or
any other valuable, is to bring on it or its posses-
sor misfortune, unless averted by passing over the
object a _finger wetted with saliva. *
It has been asserted, and upon evidence, too,
that the human eye manifests a
powerful influence
in subduing the natural courage and ferocity of
wild animals, insomuch that bulls, tigers, Sw. it
is alleged, have been known to retire in dismay
before the firm and fixed look of man. Some, sin-
the contagion that passeth from body to body, do conceive it
should likewise be agreeable to nature, that there should be
some transmissions from spirit to spirit, without the mediation
of the senses." Alle: alluding to the means used "
to raise and
fortify the imagination," he concludes: "
Deficiences in these
knowledges I will report none, other than the general deficience,
that it is not known how much of themis verlty., and how much
vanity ;" in other words, that the subject had not yet been phi-
losophically investigated.
'
As there are some who are said to fascinate by their as-
pect, so Rodericus a Castro (Med. Polit. l. 4. c. l.), says:
"
E
converse, quosdam esse quorum oculi creduntur habere vim be-
ne&cam ad res inspectas: vulgo Bmsedcifncf'
ANIMAL maeusrlsm. 93
gular and almost incredible instances of this in-
fluence will be found in Van Helmont's Treatise
on the Plague, and in other works. *
The breath and the saliva have both beenal-
'
See, in particular, Secrets et Remedes eprouvér, dont les pre-
parations ont étéfaites as Louvre, de Pordre du Roi, 'par M. L'Abbé
Rousseau, &c. Zi edit. Paris, 1708.
I remember having read in a
newspaper, some years ago, an
account of the escape of a tiger from confinement, which caused
great terror and confusion in the streets of London. A gentle-
man
happening to come suddenly out of a house, without any
previous knowledge or suspicion of his danger, found the animal
couched within a few yards of him. Fortunately, this gentle-
man had spent some part of his life in the East Indies, and was
acquainted with the nature of these ferocious animals. Instead
of attempting to make his escape, he stood perfectly still, and
fixed his eyes steadily upon the tiger, who, in the course of a
few seconds, made a bound to the opposite side of the street,
and soon left the gentleman in complete security.
I need make no apology for extracting the following very cu-
rious observations from a- popular publication, entitled This
Telescope, for 1832. -~ . - _
`
`
"
Rncirnocar. Errscrs or nnrasviso Fun.
"
It is well Known, that, with regard to most animals, the he-
trayal of fear in one often excites another to mischievous at-
tacks, or. if these have been commenced, to increased boldness."
Van Helmont had, long ago, made a similar remark: "
In omni
daze, a pavori mm mwpmw, umm imma. mbmm." Tu.
unrv Pnsns.
"
That this does not hold, as is usually sup~
posed. in the case of bees, appears from a circumstance which
occurred to M. de Hofer of Baden. Being a great admirer of
bees, they appeared to have acquired a sense of friendship for
him, by virtue of which he could at any time approach them
with impunity, and even search 'for a. queen, and taking hold
of her gently, place her upon his hand. This was, as usual,
94 ANIMAL massmxsm.
leged to possess considerable eliicacy in the cure
or alleviation of diseases. The remedial eiiicacy
of the breath, indeed, appears to have been main-
tained in ancient times; for we find that Pliny re-
commends breathing upon the forehead as a means
of cure.
* ~
Peculiar virtue has, in all times, been
ascribed to the breath of young and healthy per-
ascrlhed to his want of fear; but having had the misfortune to
be attacked by a violent lever, he soon found, after his recovery,
that the bees considered him as a different person, and instead
of being received by them as an old friend, he was treated as a
trespasser; nor was he ever able, ahzer this period, to perform
any operation upon them, or approach within their precincts,
without exciting their anger. It would thence appear that it
was not so much his want of fear and confidence in their want
of enmity, as some peculiar eflluvia of his body (changed by the
fever), which gave rise to the circumstance.
"
That the non-betrayal of fear, however, has a powerful in-
Huenoe upon quadrupeds, as well as upon man himself; there can
be no doubt. We are acquainted with a
gentleman who afiirms
that he is not afraid to face any animal, not excepting a lion, a
tiger, or even
a mad dog; and when in India, he gave actual
proof of his courage, by killing, with his own hand, more tigers
than one. His secret is to fix his eye firmly and uadauntedly
on the animal, a method which he maintains will cause the
fiercest to quail. By the same means, he succeeded in subduing
a furious maniac, who had broke loose fi-om confinement in a
mad-house."
'
Hint. Nat. lib. xxviii. c. 6.._Delrio treats at large of those
magnetic doctors who cured their patients by anointing them with
their spittle, by breathing upon them, and by manipulation.
Rodericus a Castro (Media. Polit. L 4. c.
8.) seems to admit the
realityfof these cures, and telis us :
"
In oonjinndionan adducwu
nperientiametvariaourationumgeneramin fr¢quentia,¢tpm.rin
ANIMQL mienm-xsm. -95
sons. On the other hand, the breath of some ser-
pents is said to communicate a deadly poison.
When a child complains, the mother or the nurse
frequently says that she will blow away the pain;
and it is usual among the common
people, in some
countries, to treat the disease called St Anthony's
Fire magnetically, by breathing upon the body.
Borelli mentions that there exists a sect of physi-
cians in India, who cure all sorts of diseases merely
by the breath.
The quality of the saliva, in men and other ani-
mals, appears to depend much, not only upon the
bodily health, but also upon the state and disposi-
tion of the mind. The natural oilice of this se-
cretion is to prepare the food for digestion. Most
of us
may have experienced the alteration produced
upon this secreted fluid by corporeal disease: the
passions seem to exercise a
strong influence over
it; and madness converts it into poison.
The saliva is said to have a
peculiar eiiicacy in the
case of swellings. It was
employed as a
remedy
by the Ensalmadores in Spain, who, according to
Delrio, cured diseases by means of the saliva and
the breath. *
quoddianam militant qui solo aHntu, oeculo, aut nudi lintei ap-
plicatione, sanant etiam atrocissima vulnera, qui omnes dono
sanitatis in variis morbis se
preeditos gloriantur."
'
Dzmuo, Magic. Mogunt. 1606, tom. i. p. 69.
96 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
It is scarcely necessary for me to repeat, that
the alleged ellicacy of these simple natural in-
tluenceshas been brought under notice, merely in
deference to the very general popular belietl The
reader is at liberty to attach what degree of credit he
pleases to the accounts given of their sanative vir-
tues. The spiritual magnetist may hold that there
is no
eilicacy in the things themselves, but that the
salutary influence is derived from
the will and in-
tention of the individual who employs the pro-
cesses. Even in this view, however, the circum-
stances are not undeserving of attention, as they
may be considered as
indicating the employment
of certain means towards a
particular end, with-
out-_any knowledge of the operating principle. *
'
Fienus, in his well known work, De V61-ibm Imaginationis,
ascrlbes immense influence to the acts of the mind per potentiam
imaginatkam.
"
Etenim," says he,
"
iniiniti authores diversas et
admirandas vlrtutes ei adscrlpserunt: ipsummet vulgus et to-
tus mundus dicit, et quasi pro comperto habet, per imaginatio-
nem mirabiles eifectus contlngere et cqrpore proprio et aliens: et
non tsntum hoc viri mediocriter docti, sed et mulierculse ipsae no-
runt et prsedleant." He then refers to the authority of Aristotle,
Avicenna, and other eminent persons, for the truth of the fact.
The last-mentioned author expressly asserts, among other things,
"
animam humanam posse corpus sanum ad aegritudinem, et re-
grum ad sanitatem converters." Were we to reject all the
other evidence of the reality of this fact, it could be completely
substantiated by the indisputable phenomena of Animal Mag-
netlsm.
(97)
CHAPTER III
IN order to enable us to prosecute, with anyproa-
pect of success, our
inquiries into the operation of
those influences, the alleged effects of which have
been considered in the preceding chapter; it may
be useful to direct our attention, for a short time,
to some of those more remarkable sympathies
which have been found to exist between the dife-
rent parts of the corporeal frame, and also between
the mind and the material organism. Here, indeed,
we are led into an
inquiry of vast extent, interest,
and importance, as
regards both philosophy and
medicine. I confess that I feel myself quite in-
competent to do justice to such a
subject--a sub-
ject which has been hitherto too little investigated
by physicians; and I have in vain sought for ade-
quate information upon it, in the writings of pro-
fessional men. There are some points, however, to
which it is necessary that I should advert, in con-
sequence of their connexion with the general ob-
ject of this work.
From a
quotation I formerly made from M. de
vox.. 1. 1
98 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Buffon,* the reader must have perceived the great
value which that eminent naturalist set upon this
inquiry; but the hints he threw out respecting its
more extensive prosecution, so far, at least, as I am
aware, do not seem to have attracted suiiicient at~
tention from those most competent to the investi-
gation. Yet, as calculated to afford us some in-
sight into the nature of those hidden springs which
stimulate the animal motions and influence the
vital functions-to unveil, in part, the causes of
corporeal change and of moral affectahility, espe-
cially in those cases where they are clearly seen to
act and react reciproeally upon each other-the in-
quiry is of iniinite importance to physiology in ge-
neral, and more
particularly to the study of Ani-
,mal Magnetism. Craving the indulgence of the
reader, therefore, for thevery imperfect manner in
which I am enabled to treat this highly interesting
subject, I shall proceed to-lay before him the scanty
information I have been able to collect; trusting,
at the same time, that it will soon be rendered
more satisfactory, by the co-operation of other in-
dividuals far better qualified for the investigation.
Of the first of those kinds of sympathy to which
I have alluded, there is none more remarkable than
that which has been so
frequently observed to ex-
ist between the stomach and every other part of the
H »
'Seém»»amem,p.27.~ _
ANIMAL Mxeurrxsm. »
99
body--with the head, for instance, and versa,
with the kidneys and other organs, with the skin,
&c.-that particular sympathy of the heart and
lungs with the stomach and bowels-the sympathy
of the heart with the lungs, Src. From all which
it evidently appears that the stomach is the prin-
cipal seat of all the most remarkable sympathetic
affections which occur in valetudinary states of the
body-a circumstance to which, although well
known to medical men, both in ancient and mo-
dern times, I would take the liberty of seriously
directing the attention of physiologists and profes-
sional physicians, with a view to farther investiga-
tion.* Every disorder accompanied with severe
pain affects thestomach; while this viscus affects,
not only in its diseased state, every part ofthe sys-
tem, but at other times, the effects of healthful sti-
mulants applied to it are instantly communicated
to the rest of tle body--as when we take food,
wine, medicine, &c.
Mental emotions alsolexercise a
very powerful
influence upon the stomach. Dr Paris observes,
that F' the passions of the mind, fear, anxiety, and
rage, are well known to affect the nervous
system,
and, through that medium, the stomach; and so
'
Van Helmont seems to have been fully aware of the gneat
importance of this inquiry ; but since his time, the subject sp-
pears to have beenmueh neglected- .
100 ANIMAL mseunrlsu.
immediately are its consequences experienced, that
a
person receiving unpleasant intelligence at the
hour of a
repast, is incapable of eating a morsel,
whatever might have been his appetite before such
a communication. -
e
'
"Reado'ertM|; andatterthis; andthen
To breakiiut with what appetite you may."
Moral causes, indeed, have the most powerful,
and immediate, and permanent effect, of any, upon
the state of the stomach. Among these have been
reckoned excessive grief, mental depression, from
whatever cause, anxiety about worldly afairs, in-
tense thought, Sw. combined with the deprivation
'
Mr Carbut, in his Clinical Lectures, makes some very per-
tlnent observations to the same purport.
"
As every person,"
says he,
"
has probably experienced, the emotions of the mind
have a powerful influence on the stomach. Let a person who
is going to sit down to dinner, with a
good appetite, receive a
piece of news, either exceedingly joyful, or
exceedingly dis.
tressing, his appetite goes in a moment. Children who are
about to set out on a pleasant journey, it is well known, cannot
eat. This, when I was a child, used to be called being 'journey
proud.' On the other hand, a blow upon the stomach will some-
times take away life lnstantly ; and a drink of cold water, when
the body has been very hot, has often had the same effect. At.
tend to your companions when on a
joumey n-foot; as their
stomachs grow empty, how sullen and silent the whole party
becomes! Let a crust ofbresd, a little eheese,a glass ofale or
wine, be taken, and cheerfulness immediately reigns, even long
before any uutrlment had time to reach the general clreulative
system. These things all shew the general sympathy between
the stomach and every other part ofthe body."
'
~'~'
~=.. .4
o
_, _
_
ANIMAL Macunrlsii.-`; _
.
101
of sutlicient bodily exercise and free air. "in
country," says Dr James Johnson,
"
where mania
relations with the world around him are multiplied
beyond all example in any other country, in con-
sequence of the intensity of interest attached to
politics, religion, commerce, literature, and the
arts; where the temporal concerns of an immense
proportion of the population are in a state of per-
petual vacillation; where spiritual affairs excite
great anxiety in the minds of many; and where
speculative risks are daily run
by all classes, from
the disposers of empires in Leadenhall Street, down
to the potato-merchant in Covent Garden ;--it is
really astonishing to observe the deleteriou infin-
ence of these mental perturbationson the functions
of the digestive organs. The operation of physical
causes, numerous as they are, dwindles into com-
plete insignilicance when compared with that of
anxiety or tribulation of mind."*
The celebrated Dr Cullen, in his Physiology, re-
marks, that there is one
very general case of very
great influence in almost the whole of the doctrines
of the materia medica, as this particular sympathy
is concerned in the operation of the most part of
-
'rue effect ofclieerfulnea ma oewiml mann in me pm.
servation of health, and the promotion of convnlescence, must
be iiimilisr to all medical men. I think it was Dr Arbuthnot
who used to my that laughing lengthens life, and that the arri-
vsl d a
single mountebank in a town contributes more to pro-
mote the health of the inhabitants than s. dozen of physicians.
__ ,» -_
.' ~ ~
'
102 f'1iélMAL Mscnmxsmj .
'pi'eliie'ii1es, 'and explains the operation of many'
which is otherwise diilicult to be understood.
"This is the operation of medicines upon the
stomach, from which motions- are often propagated
to almost every distant part of the human body,
and peculiar effects produced in those parts, whilst
the medicine itself is only in contact with the
stomach.
V
'
n
'
i
'
"The stomach is the- pm bywhich thamost
part of substances introduced into the interim- parts
of the boiiy generally pass; and it is endued with
a
peculiar sensibility, which renders it ready to be
aH`ected by every ubstance entering into it that is
active with respect to the human' body. Every
img, therefore, of 'this' kind 'introamd into the
stomach," operiwes almost always there, and for the
most part only there. It is now, however," well
known tophysicians, that the most 'considerable
instance of the
sympathy mentioned above, is af-
forded bythe stomach, so connected with almost
every otherpart of the system, that motions excit-
ed there are
communicated to; almost every other
part of the body, and produce peculiar effects in
those parts, however distant from the stomach it-
self. This, indeed, is vary well known; but that
the effects of many medicines which appear in other
parts of
A
the body are entirely owing to an action
upon the stomach, and that the most part of medi-
cines acting upon the system act immediately upon
_
ANIMAL MAGNETISML 103
the stomach only, is what has not been understood
till very lately, and does not seem even
yet to be
very generally and fully perceived .by the writers
on the materia medica." This opinion the learned
Doctor proceeds to confirm by many sound reasons
and striking illustrations.
It would thus appear that the region of the sto#
mach is a
great and most important centre of ner-
vous sensibility; but even those writers who have
been forced by experience into_||n acknowledg-
ment of this fact, do not seein' 'to have made any
adequate attempt to explain it; although they might
naturally have been led to inquire how this syml-
pathetic sensibility comes to be distributed from
this centre throughout the whole system, in the
manner above described. The nature and func-
tions of the plexus solaris, or
great concatenation of
sympathetic nerves, situated in this region, have
not yet been sudiciently investigated, although it
evidently appears to act a very important part in
the animal economy, especially in certain morbid
states of the system, or disturbed sensibility. The
investigation, if conducted with a view to the ge-
neral sympathy in question, might perhaps lead to
some
interesting results!
'
Dr Bertrand, the ingenious author of a learned work on
Somnambullsm, thinks it more than probable that, in relation
to the internal life, the plans solaris performs the
same time-
tions which we ascribe to the brain, as the organ of the intellec-
104 ANIMAL maonsrlsu.
_
There are also various other sympathies, al~
though of less importance in relation to our sub-
tual hculties in the waking state, in relation to the extemal
lite.
In the solar plana, which some of the ancients called the
osrebrum abdominale, the soul is thought to derive the materials
necessary for the formation of its intuitive judgments.
A number of eminent German and French anatomists and
phyllologists, in recent times, have bestowed considerable pains
in investigating the structure and course of the nervous ganglia
and ples-vu, and of the various abdominal nerves connected with
them. (See J. F. MIQIIL; Ds vera norvi interooslalia origins.
In din. do quinto pari urvorum Goeting. I784.-J. G.
Wuxrma ; Tabulaa narvorum thoraois et abdominia. Berolini,
1183) Blchat in France, and Hufeland in Germany, came,
about the some time, upon the idea that all these nerves, al-
thouym organically connected with the cerebral nerves, consti~
tuted a peculiar and independent system of nervous influence.
(See .Blchat's General Anatomy, and C. W. Hufeland's Pathologic.)
This idea was subsequently farther pursued, and expounded
with much cleamess and ingenuity, by Autenrieth (Handbuch
an Pnmaw), Burdach (Phyriologia), and especially by neil
(On llaepsaulior of the Gsnglionio System, and its rela-
tion to the Cerebral System ; in the Archiv fiir Phgsiologie, vol.
Ns. 2, pp. 189-254). Humboldt (in the Gaum Lmmau as
BsrKn, 1788, p. 312) afterwards extended this theory, by his
evidence in livour of the external expansion of the nervous in-
Huence.
As it would lead me too far, were I to enter minutely into
the details of this ingenious theory, I think it may be sumeient
for me to have pointed out the various works in which it is un-
folded, and to recommend farther investigation by competent
inquirers. I may observe, however, that the theory is of great
importance to Animal Magnetism; as most of the magnetic
phenomena seem capable of being explained only by the rela-
tion in which the cerebral and ganglionic systems stand towards
each other.
snmu. masuzrism. 105
ject, besides those already mentioned ; such as that
of the intemal membrane of the bronchi with the
skin, on the application of cold to the surface of
the body, in the production of a catarrh-that of
the skin with the stomach and bowels, and mee
versa, at the commencement and during the conti-
nuance of fevers, &c. So universal, indeed, is this
sympathetic connexion between the diiferent parts
of the living system, that we might safely subscribe
to the duction of the great father of physic-Con-
_/luzio una, eonspiratab uma, consentientia omnia.
This universal sympathy of the whole frame with
a
particular pert or
parts, appears to owe its exist-
ence to that unity and contiguity of substance in
the brain and nerves, by means of which all the
diferent parts of theisystem are so
intimately con-
nected with each other, by means of the ganglia
and ple:-us, that if any one part is affected, the rest
must sufer more or less. That this reciprocal
sympathy, indeed--this action and re-action-has
its origin in the various minute ramincations of
the nervous
system, seems liable to no doubt. We
know that the nerves, which are so
many elonga-
tions of the medullary substance of the brain, are
conductors of part of the vital principle to all the
organs of the body, for the purposes of life, sensa-
tion, and action, and that it is through the medium
of the nerves that the vital principle is acted up-
'§06 ANIMAL Mseusrxsm.
on. In short,°1he nerves are the conditions of the
corporeal rzjeetability. It is also well known to
the' profession, that' many eminent physicians and
physiologists have suspected, assumed, or found
themselves compelled tb admit a certain permea-
bility ofthe nerves, i. e. that they contain, secrete,
circulate, transmit, or in some manner conduct
some fluid or substance, and,'consequently, that
they have cavities, whether diseoverable by human
optics of not. To -this hypothesis, and the conclu-
sions to be drawn from it, I shall have occasion to
revert hereafter.. In the mean time, I have merely
alluded 'to it as affording apparently the best ex-
planation' of those mutual sympathies which are
known to exist in the human frame. r
»
I believe there has been of late some
controversy
regarding this sympathy between different and dis-
tam parts of the organism-whetherit may be
traced nervous irritation, and "
aneeessary and
lpermanenteonsent" of these parts,'or whether it
arises 'simply from the effects of "
certain mental
sevwatvbbs." In an ingenious paper by Professor
Alison, 010 the Phyalblogical Principle qf Sympathy,
inserted in the 2d volume of the Transactions of
the iMedieo-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, in
which he supports the latter of these views, the
learned author observes: "
As this is a
subject of
considerable intricacy and diiiiculty, so I think it
Annual., nncnru u. 107
is one of those which has .ofrlate yearanot httraet.
ed as much attention fromcmedical inquirers as. its
importance deserves. Inconsequence of this, the
progre which had been already madefina the im
quiry by physiologists of the last age, seems to
have been overlooked, and speculations hrohght
forward, which a careful consideration of the-facts
collected by them' might perhaps have repressed."
In his observations, Dr Alison remarks, that he
has chiefly in view "
the excitation or alteration
of action in the animal economy, by the' irritation
of-distant par1:s;" and he proceeds thus; "
This
striking and `impoitiint` general faotin physiology,
used to be regarded as denoting, or as depending
on, a
n'ecessary and permanent consent qf ;
and the reason of this was
anxiously looked for in
connexions or anastomoses of the nerves of the
parts irritated, and the parts thrown into action
'by the irritation, whereby it was
supposed tliattain
irritation applied to the one might operate on the
other, in like manner as if applied to itself. But
the researches of Dr Whytt and Dr Monro on this
subject were, as I think, quite 'successful in esta-
blishing two points in regard to such phenomena;
lst, That they cannot be explained by the con-
nexions of the nerves of the sympathising parts;
and, 2dly, That they do not indicate any necessary
consent or
sympathy between parlrqf
l08 Auunx. rneusnsx.
de body, but are, in general, simply the efects of
certain mental aensatabm; and that, in these in-
one
part of the body sympathizes with an-
other, onlyinsofarasthe sensatiornwlubh is the
natural and appropriate stimulus of the one, is ez-
citabk by irritation ofthe other."
'
In a Note to the preceding passage, the learned
Professor makes the following observations: "
We
know that a certain portion of the nervous sy -
tem (at the origin of the nerves of sense), and can-
not doubt that a certain change in that portion, is
necessary to the production of every sensation, of
which an animal is susceptible. The mode in
which that physical change excites a mental act,
and the mode in which that or
any other mental
act, in its turn, excites a
physical change in any
part of the nervous system, and thereby acts on
muscles or other organs, are
things not only un-
known, but manifestly inscrutable. We have,
therefore, no means of judging, whether it is strict-
ly speaking from mental sensations, that the diffe-
rent sympathetic phenomena proceed, or whether
they are more
properly the results of those physi-
cal changes in the nervous matter, which imme-
diately precede and cause the sensations, and which
are known to us
only through them. But if the
sensations are the only antecedents, in the order of
time, which can be pointed out as uniformly pre-
numu. MAGNETISM. 109
ceding the sympathetic changes, I apprehend that
we
may lawfullyassign them as the causes of these
changes, without giving ourselves any trouble as
to that indeterminable question."
In a
subsequent passage, Dr Alison makes the
following most important remarks, in which I most
cordially agree with that learned physician:
"
I am
aware, that some
physiologists consider all parti-
cular reference to the acts or affections of mind,
and to the distinctions existing among these, as fo-
reign to the proper business of their science, and
expect no result from such discussions, but endlel
and nugatory metaphysical disputes. But although
it must be admitted, that such disputes are to be
found in most writings on the physiology of mind,
yet I will venture to maintain, on the other hand,
that it is absolutely incumbent on
every one who
studies the physiology of the nervous
system in the
human body, to consider carefully the laws of the
mental phenomena, as made known to us
by our
consciousness, and as generalized in the writings
of metaphysicians.
"
Whether the nervous
system be intended to
serveother purposes in the animal economy or not,
itiscertaintlaatitalsintendedtoservethegrandand
essential pwpoae qf the connezion be-
tween mind and body.
~
The study of its functions,
therefore, necessarily embraces the consideration
H0 Amuu. nuonrrisnz
of two distinct kinds of phenomena; and however
miautely the physiologist may have examined the
anatomy of the brain and nerves, and however ac-
curately he may have noted the effects of injuries
of these parts, in experiments ion animals, and in
observations on' disease; still,'unless he' has care-
fully considerd and generalized the mental part
of the processes, of whichthelbrain andnerves are
the instrumsnts,'he has done but- half 'his work." *
Atrthe conclusion of his interesting paper, the
ingenious Professor observes, that his object had
been to state -the grounds of his belief in these two
principles in Physiology, 54
jisst, .That what are
called sympathetic actions are, in general, actions
caused by sensation '; 'and,'second1y, That no ana-
tomical. explanation can begiven of the fact, that
curtain sensations act uponcertain nerves
only. -|~
'
These are sound philosophical views, and it were very desir-
able that a professional physician of Dr Al.ison's high acquire-
Iesels 4l1°41d_!PP1I to 1 more extensive inquiry into
this most interesting subject, combining mental with physical
Physio.log_
, , _ , . . _
-1- This last ground of belief is opposed to Sir Charles Bel1's
views, as I iind them expremed in the following passage of his
Bridgewater Treatise:
"
Experiment proves, what is suggested
by anatomy, that not only the organs 'of theisenses are appro-
priated to particular classes of sensations, but that the nerves
intermediets between t1}¢ btlin sud the outward organs are re-
spectively capable of
receiving no other sensations but such as
are adapted to their particular organs?
`
-
Into the merits of this controversy, for the reasons above
ANIMAL MAoNs'rxsM. 1 ll
The discussion in Professor Alison's paper is too
strictly professional to entitle me to enter into it
more at large; indeed, I do not conceive myself
competent to give any decided opinion upon the
subject. But I am not aware that he has stated
any thing that can invalidate the propositions I
have advanced, upon the authority of many emi-
nent physicians, from Hippocrates downwards, 're-
lative to the sympathies that really' exist between
diH`erent,and distant parts of the animal economy,
through the mediation of thenervmls system. My
business is with facts, rather than the explanation
of facts. Whether these sympathetic actionsori-
ginate from a oonnexion between the different
nerves, which are the sole. instruments of all sen-
sations; or whether they are determined by men-
tal sensations, as maintained by Dr Alison-these
are
questions which I willingly leave to be decided
by scientific physiolegists and physicians.
stated, I do not mean to enter; but in the sequel of this
work, I shall have occasion to bring forward some matters, not
of theory, but of fact, which, I trust, may occasion some farther
investigation into the powers and susceptibilities of the nervous
system.
`
P
(112)
CHAPTER IV.
THE second class of sympathies to which I for-
merly referred, is composed of those which are
found to exist between the mind and the body.
These are of infinitely greater importance in the
present investigation, but, perhaps, still more dif-
ficult to account for upon intelligible and satis-
factory principles; inasmuch as it must be easier
to trace and explain the actions and re-actions of
one homogeneous substance, than to discover the
principle which_renders this substance susceptible
of being acted upon by another being of a
totally
diferent nature and quality! The very interest-
ing nature of the facts, however,-and these are
matters of observation -independently of any at-
' "
As vital properties do not differ from the properties of in-
animate nature, ln degree,or byany other modification, but have
nothingin common with them, it follows, that when living bodies
aH`ect each other only by their vital properties, the result must
be such as bears no
analogy to any of the properties of inani-
mate nature; and, consequently, that in all processes which
have any such analogy, one of the agents must operate by the
properties of inanimate nature."-Dr W. Pnxur, On the Vital
Functions, Bd ed. p. 202.
xnmu. MAGNETISM. 113
tempt to explain their causes, will do more than
repay the labour of inquiry.
Bodily sufering always affects the mind, in a
greater or less degree; while impressions made
upon the mind have been known to produce sur-
prising changes on the habit of the body. The
remarkable histories of John de Poictiers and
Henry IV. of France, have been recorded by his-
torians, and corroborated by physicians.
*
It is quite notorious, indeed, that the passions
of the mind occasionally exert a most extraordi-
nary induence over the oorporeal frame. An ex~
cess of joy or of fear has been known to occa-
sion speedy death; and the same thing, or, in some
cases, insanity, has been produced by sudden sur-
'
The former having been convicted of being an associate
in the conspiracy of the Constable of Bourbon against Francis I.,
and condemned to lose his head, became so much distracted by
fear and violent passion, that, in one
night, his hair turned en-
tirely grey; and he was seized with so violent a fever, that,
though his daughter procured his pardon from the king, nore-
medies could preserve his life. The latter, when he heard the
unexpected and mortifying news, that Henry III. had publish-
ed the edict of July 1585, against the Hugenots, was so
greatly
affected, that, in an instant, one of his mustachios was turned
grey-See Monsax, art. Diane do Poiolicrs ; Tu vsnus, lib. iii.;
Axsenun, Palais rfhonneur; SULLY, Menioires, tom. i._An-
other story of the same kind is related in HowEL's Letters,
p. 179; and a still more curious one in Vznnnc, Operat. de
Chirurgg. cap. xiv. p. 337.
VOL. I. K
l 14- .-Animal' uasmmsu.
prise. An cmincntmedical writer *
mentions, .up-
on
unquestionable authority, that, upon the arrival
of the alarming news of the taking of Bergen-op-
Zoom, in the year 17-UT," such wx the -general con-
sternation, that many women were known. to die
of fright soon after the intelligence was communi-
cated to them. Sudden death, from an excess of
joy, although 'equally certain, is more uncommon;
but there 'are many instances of it upon record.
Livy relates, that twowomen at Rome died of ex-
'cessive joy, upon iindingitlleir sons return, .safe
and unhurt, from thebattleof Tharsymene. There
are numerous instances of sudden surprise having
occasioned imbecility, insarfity, orldeatheitself. 1'
The mental affections exert -a very remarkable
influence over the bodily secretions. Of this many
familiar instances might benoticed ; but they will
readily occur to the reader. I shall therefore con-
tent myself with quoting the following case, be-
cause it has been less commonly observed, rests
upon the best authority, and is of great importance
to our argument.
'
Dr Gaanxxnn, Dn the Animal Economy, p. 40.
1- This is corroborated by the obsérvationofthe celebrated
Dr Mead: "
Annon hominum pessundare vehementes animi
aifectiones saepe experiuntur? Subitus terror multos intere-
mit; et ipsa quandoque supra modum exultans laetitiz tixit ex-
ltl0."-MEAD, Medica Saera, p. 70. _ _
Amnrn. uaennmsur |15
My old, ingenious, and highly .respected friend,
Mr Wardrop of London, one of the most eminent.
surgeons of whom this or any other country can
boast, observes, in one of his very able surgical lec-
tures, that "
the only circumstance of importance
to be particularly attended to, when operating upon
an infant, is the management of the nurse. I am
convinced, ,says he, that in many cases where ope-
rations on infants have proved fatal, the death has
been caused by changes produced in the nurse's
milk, in consequencemf the mental agitation which,
asryon may suppose, is often- produced in the mind
either of -the nurse or the mother, when an
opera-
tion on her young charge becomes necessary. I
haveseen- several remarkable instances of this kind,
and similar cases are 'recorded by authors. The
first case which came under my own notice, took
place some
years ago -in an infant from whom I
had removed a small, very hard tumour, which
was situated behind the ear. _
No fever or inflam-
mation' supervened; and after suppuration had
been established, and the wound was grnnulating
in the most healthy manner, the child diedisud-
denly of convulsions. 'On inquiry, I 'fonnd that
the mother had been -thrown into a violent -fit of
passion late atnight, andthat she snckled her 'in»
fant soon afterwards, -immediately subsequent to
which the fatal convulaion succeeded. In another
116 Annual. umssrzsu.
instance, I was sent for in great haste to see an in-
fant in a convulsive lit, and on
inquiry found, that.
the nurse who was
employed to suckle the infant
had been guilty of some misconduct, for which she
had been severely reprimanded. Soon after this
mental agitation, the infant was suclrled by her,
and that occurrence was followed by the convul-
sive attack referred to. The late Sir Richard
Croft, who had the immediate care of the child,
informed me, that he had frequently known simi~
lar cases, and that all the mischiq' was to be attri-
buled to the pernicious efects which moral excitement
produces on the milk qf the nurse-an effect with
which, in some
degree, every one is familiar. Mr
North, in his treatise on the Convulsions qfInfants,
makes allusion to this circumstance, and has men-
tioned examples of it."
It is of importance, however, to observe, that
impressions made upon the mind may exert a he-
neficial as well as a
prejudicial influence upon the
state of the body;-they may restore as well as
destroy healthy action. This, indeed, is agreeable
to reason, and the fact has been abundantly con-
firmed by experience. There are numberless Well-
authenticated instances, in which diseases have
been found to be alleviated, if not entirely re-
moved, by passions excited in the mind-by fear,
terror, anger, joy, Src. _ _
ANIMAL naassrrrsm 117
It is' somewhere recorded, that a
person amicted
with silent melancholy having been put into a vio-
lent passion, immediately recovered his sanity of
mind. _
Another, who was going to drown himself,
fell in with robbers, defended himself vigorously
against them, and retumcd home cured of his
suicidal propensities. Fright, sudden affections,
vehement emotions, have, in hundreds of eases,
operated the instantaneous removal of insanity.
It has been usual to refer all such cases to the
iuduence of the imagination-a very convenient
mode of explanation, but which, in reality, only
serves as a cloak to cover our ignorance, and seems
to be resorted to for the purpose of saving us the
trouble of investigation., It appears quite evident
that, in all these instances, there is some action
exerted on the vital principle, probably through the
medium of the nervous system.
The same eminent physician to whom I lately<re~
ferred-the late Dr John Gardiner of Edinburgh, ob-
serves in his treatise on the Animal Economy, that
"
in chronic diseases, accompanied with a
preterna-
tural irritability in the nerves, and a
variety of dilfe-
rent complaints, arising from a morbid mobility of
particular parts, as in hysterical and hypochondriac
patients, in persons aliiicted with chronic asthma,
or with a fit of the gout, toothach, or rheumatism,
'
I
have known these several disorders suspended for
118 ANIMAL Maenarrsu;
a time, when the mind hasbeen under -theinll uence
of fear, surprise, or roused to a fixed attention to
some interesting object. I have frequently observed
in practice, delicate 'hysterical women, who for
many months had seldom 'enjoyed 'one4day's health,
suddenly relieved from every complaint, when a
favourite child was attacked with a disease in which
dangerwas apprehended, and they fcontinued in
appearance to bein 'perfecthealth duringthe whole
course of the illness, and »exhibited 'an unusual
alertness in discharging 'their dufyasnurses andas
parents."--" A gentleman of- great courage and
honour," says Dr Gardiner, "
who 'had become va-
letudinary, and subject to the asthma, by a. long
service in India, as anodicer in the land forces,
.told me that, during their encatnpment, he was at-
tacked withla severe fit -of that disorder, which
usually lasted ten or twelve days: That, upon the
third or fourth day of his illness, when he could
only breathe in an erect posture, and without mo-
tion, imagining that it was not -in his power to
move six _yards tosave his life, the alarm guns were
fired for the whole line to turn out, because a; party
of the Mahrattas had broke into the camp, and fear-
ing certain _death if heremained in his tent, he
sprung out with an alacrity that astonished his at-
tendants, instantly mounted his horeeyandldrew
_his sword with great ease, which, ,the.day;before,
Asimn. Mhonszlrisn. -119
he could not move from its seabliard, 'thonghlie
used his whole strength in the attempt. From the
instant of the alarm and surprise, the ~Wlebility_left
him, together with the asthma; nor did 'the disorder
return till its usual period."
"
From the above instances," 'continues Dr Gm'-
diner, "
and others of a similar nature, Where the
ordinary course of a disease, or the disease itself,
is suspended for a time, we have 'reason to believe
that, in disorders of the body, as well as in those
of the mind, there is an irregdlxr and an
unequal
distribution of the powers of aotion,'wliich seems
to be'rectified by a sudden and eontinued exertion
of the powers of the mind. This earerfion gives
stability to the nerves- as eoiilltletvrs. Heir
condition is immediately changed j5'61}¢ 6`1)|0fbid to a
'
Cases of
thersame kind willbe found in the
Caaviezuc, p. 332; in Gsssmim, Opens, vol. iv. p. 801; in
Pzcnmxr, Obs. Physica-Medica; Hamb. 1692, pp. 458, 454,
456, 457.
Hxrrocnrrzs was so
fiilly aware of this species of influence,
that' he expressly recommended »E»Iu;u»»-anger, sudden excite-
ment-as of great service in certain diseases ; and in this opi-
nion he is supported in the strongest manner by Aasnnus,
PAULU8,>8,!ld Games. See
Gantt, in Lib. de Theriaoa.
'
The 'same opinion has been confirmed by eminent medial
writers in more modern times. See, in particular, Fizrzus, De
viribru Imaginationia, and Pzcnnntus, ut sup.
'
'I 'may here observe, byLthelby, that the elder writers appear
to use the terms, Inaginatio, Phauaaia, in a somewhat different
and more definite sense than that which seems to be attached
to them at the present day. »
'
120 Annan. uses:-:'risM.
morevigorousatate: Tlcewholesystem acquires .sue/1
adegreeqfstrengthasenablesittorenlst, in a sur-
prifingmanner, the ordinaryaction ofthe cause of
the disease." "
These facts shew the necessity and
great use of constantly employing the mind, either
by business or amusement, in the cure of certain
diseases accompanied with a
preternatural irritabi-
lity of particular parts.
"
As a solution of opium taken into the stomach,
injected into the bowels, or
applied to any part of
the body, so as to have its full eifect on the nerves,
never fails, in proportion to the quantity used, to
lessen or
destroy the sensibility, and the powers of
the nerves to which it is applied; and as these ef-
fects are
speedily communicated, in a less degree,
to the rest of the system; in like manner, when
any part of the body, from its diseased state, comes
to be endned with such a
preternatural degree of
irritability, as to be, from the slightest causes, al-
most in constant pain, and this for a number of
days or weeks together, it has always the effect to
render the rest of the nerves irritable to a morbid
degree, or, to use a term in music, to bring the
rest of the nerves more in unison with those of the
diseased part than they were before. This effect
of long-continued pain, in rendering the system
more
irritable, is not perhaps so observable as the
effects of opium in a
contrary way."
aumsi. Mseaxmsu. 121
Again: "
If we wish to moderate the severity of
pain, or to
take oil' a
particulaifspasmodic affec-
tion, in any part of the body, a dose of laudanum
or
opium is prescribed, suitable to the age, consti-
tution, or habit of the patient in the use of this
medicine. In a few minutes after its application
to the nerves of the stomach, they become less sen-
ible. The same diminished sensibility is soon
communicated to the whole nerves, and the pain
in the diseased part is proportionably abated, or
entirely removed." The learned Doctor afterwards
proceeds to mention, that "
we sometimes meet
with a
patient who, from a
singularity of constitu-
tion, disagrees with opium, in whatever form it 'is
given ;" and in such cases, and where the effects
of an opiate are considered necessary for the remo-
val of pain, he endeavours to point out the best
means of obviating this inconvenience.
I need make no
apology for introducing this
long quotation from the excellent work of Dr Gar-
diner, because his observations appear to be not
only judicious, and of great importance to medical
science, but also exceedingly interesting, when con-
sidered in relation to the doctrinenof Animal Mag-
netism. If by any means whatever (the more
simple assuredly the better) we can succeed in
soothing the preternatural irritability of .the ;ner-
voL. 1.
"
~~
I-
122 annul. useulrriau-
vous system, and in any way facilitate a restora-
tion of the healthy action of .the 'vital functims,
do we not go a great way towards the effectual
cure of a variety of serious complaints, .by lnlling
painful sensations, and alleviating or
removing the
morbid symptoms, leaving the »rest .to be perform-
by the vie medicatria: autumn? Now, thesemwe pre-
cisely the effects generally produced by the mag-
netic procsses-they act, at the same time, as-a
sedative anda tonic or corroborant, in a
degree far
beyond .any article in the Materia ; and fa
better description of these salutary effects could
hardly be given, than by using the language of Dr
Gardiner, when speaking of the proper administra-
tion of opiates. These e$ects,.indee|l, in-the case
of Animal ;Mgnetism, have-been-said to .depend
upon .the ininence of the imagination *-a hack-
'
Those of the opponents of Animal Magnetism who adopt
the imagination-hypothesis, have 'neveryet, so hr all am aware,
condescended to inform uswhat theyfmem by Im@nation. D0
they use the term in the sense of the A1-cheus of Parscelsus
and Van Helmont-the anime madioo, the vital spirlts, the ln-
telllgenee, the life, of other eminent physicians? If they do,
than let them saysopfor, inthst case,:lt may perhaps appear
upon this, as upon many other occasions, that our controversy
is more verbal than ral. The Animal'Msgnetists have incon-
trovertibly demonstrated, that the phenomena of which they
speak cannot, with any propriety, be ascribed to the imagina-
tion, according to the common meaning of the word. As well
might' we attempt to refer the effects of ordinary medicines
solely to the influence of the imagination. _
124, ANIMAL uacnnrzsm.
the butter was made. "
If medical men assert,"
says Mr Chenevix,
"
that the alleged cures of Mes-
merism are
performed by the mind, and that this
is the peculiar province of imaginative therapeutics,
do they not culpably neglect the most powerful
agent of mental medicine, if they do not practise
Mesmerism ? If imagination can cure diseases,
and if this he its most energetic exeiter, then ex-
cite it thus:-Cure by imagination, and the sick
will bless you.* If the cause he analogous to a ro-
tatory or a rocking motion"-this was the opinion
of some of the professional gentlemen who wit-
nessed Mr Chenevix's experiments-" then whirl
or rock your patients into sleep and health. lf it
be a new agency, find it out, and prove it by ex-
periment."
`
To these recommendations of Mr Chenevix, I
would beg leave to add--Do not allow yourselves
to lose sight of the facts, while attempting to dis-
cover their causes ;--do not overlook or
disregard
the efects, although the principle should for ever
remain undetected.
'
See the opinion and advice upon this subject of the late
celebrated Professor Dugald Stewart, to be quoted hereafter.
( 125 )
CHAPTER V.
Hirrodnlrrns long ago airmed, that Nature;
herself frequently cured diseases; and he thought
that her most vigilant' attendants and ,observers
were the best physicians. The observation has
since been often repeated, and the opinion appears
to have given rise to the various hypotheses con-
cerning the. nature of this sanntive principle.
*
' "
There is no cnrsble malsdy from which the patlent does
not sometimes recover, without the aid of foreign remedies, by
the unassisted efforts of the vital principle. A fortiori ought
this cure to take place, when, by means of a
methodical and
well understood communication of an effective iiuld, the defec-
tive fluid of the patient is restored, and better directed in its
action. And let it not he thought that it is essentially the
quantity or the quality of drugs which edects cures; Nature
alone cures, by restoring,in some manner or other_whether by
natural or by artificial means-order in the disturbed functions.
A cure is nothing else than a victory obtained by the vital prin-
ciple over the sdverse forces presented by the disease."_M¢.
noir aurlolfluide Vital, &.c. psrM.leDocteur Clnintheli-
bliotl|.duMagnst.Anion.t.ii.p.26.
These opinions are corroborated, in part, by the experience of
the celebrated Dr Hofhrsnn, and by the great success, in recent
times, of the homeopathic system of medicine, which has proved
such a sldbbaldh to the profesion.
126 ANIMAL nnczuvrism.
Hence, no doubt, the Arclmus of Paracelsus and
Van Helmont, the Anima medica of Dr Nichols,
the Vital Senses of Dr Lawrence, the Ivmlligenoe of
Stahl, the LW of Hunter and Abernathy, and the
Imagination of the modern antagonists of Animal
Magnetism.
"
Whether' the' great dexterity and
seeming contrivance of the vital economy, in the
genedtl eondudt and freqnentcure of diseases; be
dnilymhe necessary sed mechanical- remit- of em
stupendous* excited in the fabric and deli-=
stitution of me body, for its owutempomfy aww
rily in a~$illl'!ta§e; or whether any conscious M
telligence; distinct the mini, wt!-with fell
sagadcyi and imemhm for the sums purpose, seems
very dimcult to ascertain." The fact ailirmed by
lrovieter, is; I believe, generally nd#
mitted by the moss learned and expsrteuem phy-
sicians ;» and _muelr less confidence is now
placed in
the dDé£dy of the draggihg syliehhso pfwalent
in the medical practice of a former age. To such
practitioners as are will attached to the employ-
fiiéiit of me chemichi reniédies, and are chsmicai
remedies alone, in the- cure of* all complaints, I
would humbly' recommend the Mlowhig observaa
tions of another eminent physician, Dr Thomas
Simson, in- his Inqairyinto the Vital andfhimdl
Aétiovis. " The power of the' diitid in raising
sensations, and with them the consequencesthat
AUIHAL IABUIIHI
alhmi \hol\,mp:t,|lloaal»|dmh|n Tll8Q*l¢
of llClQslllIllWul hte,|||i nuns
the-dxnhlpafthonnliwm in-||ghlro£mvoi
or
PIMP wil §8 Pl'0dI§ tkillhtl whlh
orhmnlyahmdthomwrimhkenmludiybnud
pills, taken with 6 oonlidenee that thoywommcr
ouml, huofplnduuiauintlln Brallwhmh,
s|y|tl:eDo¢|:or,"}parludo yslfumustbe
dmtmitithonmmuummhmprhmei
bymykmddhauhsqbuwhatunh oapaed
and palialnedbytllafanoy, orsulrongxdn of
what sleek a oerhsu ulllllh Ill Filmed.
Now, I do not seo how any physician who :aku
such ample admxssxous as these, can, ln canduur
}lQ|llll|W'0If\hl allogod oianyof the mg-
neuc processes, m the faceofm ovurwhaimmg
body of cmdonoe, wxthout any mvastiphon of the
hotqwnhnmyklowbigo lildyolthoonl-
ditmm upon which thataHcacyin|ai|lto|Iepend'
Wh1lauponthull1|1ll°iv*0°»0f\\mprova\hngat
fll*"P"lI$}H§l0fGll'§IElfQ!i'
the hugh authonty of the celebrate! Dr Frodenc
Hnlfm|nn|wl1o,1nonsoflu|work|,tlm&\ol|ral
In oonlduneo in simple md fnmnlkr remedies
'Ia$rmmtban0l»¢¥\,'|ay|he,"tb|.ttl\em'owu
a kllbll I I1 :hu channel] ullldaalvill
grentardmu- bllflg!llId@\llBfG!Pll'l0l0QlllV0
ponudd mo, that a hw medians, pdmaldy
<
. 121'
. . 1 _
. I |.
'
.
h
~
_
I
'4
I I.
»
.
. .
_
\ » .
»
I I
A
| o o 0
"
.
'I
4
.
»
E
~ . 1
I '
u
'
\
.
.
° *
_
n
I
. . .
1
0
A _
I '
I I I l
.
M' ~
¢ _
_
_
I I l l I
.
I 1 D
I I
I I
.
s
'
I
,
_
I I I
¢
I
D I I I O
128 ANIMAL Mssumxsm.
chosen, taken from substances the most simple,
and the most unpromising in appearance, relieve,
with greater promptitude, and with greater etli-
cacy, the general run of diseases, than all the che-
mical preparations, the most rare and the most re-
cherchées."
`
We have thus seen, that, in consequence of some
sympathetic connexion, impressions made on the
mind are occasionally capable of producing extra-
ordinary changes on the corporeal habit; and of
this fact we are as certain as that a
change can be
wrought on' it by means of medicines, or
any other
external cause. ' - 7'
'
In the curious journal of his disease and cure,-which has
been left us by Aristide: the orator, the writer informs us, that
he dreamt one
night that a bull attacked him, but did him no
other injury than giving him a push under the right knee. Up-
on swaking, he found a small carbuncle on that part of his body.
We End in the life of Conrad Gessner, that he once dreamt of
having been bitten by a
serpent, at a time when a
malignant
epidemic disorder was
raging in the neighbourhood. He pre-
dicted .that a boil would appear on the spot, and it was accord-
ingly observed next day. A man dreamt that he was struck by
a stone on the breast, and awoke in a ti-ight. When light was
brought him, he perceived a
large black mark on the spot where
he felt pain.-(Ephemerid. Nat. Curios. Dec. i. Ann. ii. Obs. l28.)
Similar effects have been produced in the waking state. Male-
branche tells us, that a
young girl suffered severe pain for se-
veral days in that of the foot where she had seen blood
drawn from mother person. A young manof fourteen, in 1777,
fainted on witnessing an execution on the wheel, and suffered
violent pain, and had blue spots on the parts of his body corre-
spcudiugto those wherethecrlmiualhsdbeenhitbythe
ANIMAL Masunnsu. 122
I am now about to notice another species of this
influence, which has furnished nearly all the oppo-
nents of Animal Magnetism with what they seem
to consider a decisive argument against that mode
of treatment ;-although the influence in question
can be demonstrated to be very real and very ge-
neral ;-and although it may be said to constitute
one of the greatest, most important, and most cu-
rious arcana in medical science. It is laid down
by the advocates of the 'particular treatment al-
luded to, that _faith in the operator, and
in the patient, are very important conditions of its
success. Now, it does appear somewhat' strange
to me, that such a circumstance as this should be
considered as rendering suspicious the alleged facts
of Animal Magnetism, seeing that the same faith
and confidence are
required in all medical prac-
tice-nay, are
essentially necessary to the success
of every important transaction in life. In the or-
dinary medical practice, would not the prospect of
success be greatly diminished, if, in any instance,
the physician had no faith in the emcacy of his
medicines, while the patient, on the other hand,
had no confidence in the skill of his physician?
Is it not the primary object of every great physi-
cian to inspire his patient with confidence in the
wheel.-(Sigaud de la Fond, Diction. du Mn-vsillss dsla Nos
mn, dw.)
HU umnx, nseumusu. .
eiiimiey of the treatment- employed? And is not
tlwfdth of the patient in theteieacy ofthe tveat-
ment a
mighty maauw of recovery ?'
"
That the eagereonndenceeof the patient in the
skimf his physician; and the firm expectatiouof
relief by his means, have sometimes a wonierful
eieney in ratoring health, _is- a
point mot- te- be
doubted 06. Fxmuus, besides eorroborating this
by the duthonity of Gunn and' others,
tdls use that, in general, all physicians subscribed
tsl; and he gives as several instnneesof cures
bvought about by the _ms of means, iuthhnsdvel
of ne
sixty; if not ridiculous, nay,.w1ioh tv all
qxearanne were hurtful, but whicli the #eng de-
sire ami eeu6denee»o£ the patients endawei with
a~ ssnatin virtue* Pxcnnnc, ling. is very' ful1,
'
De Viribut Imaginalionie, p. 169-170.-" Etenlm Gale-
mn, I. pmgnost. dicit coniidenthm egrt de medics pihrimum
been sd sduten, idque me in ueipso expstum sue; etprop-
teres 11lum medicum meliua sanaturum, qui melim poterlt per-
suadere. Albertus Magnus, 4. Je anime, scrlbit aegrum per
omddenthm de sue medics iantum sum-e ipsum qumtumme-
dime medicsmhtis....... Communiter omnel medici, magnum
vim ejusmodi coniideutie ascrlbunt. ...... Probatur quoque ex-
pelientis et exemplis.......Docet etiam experientfn multos in
bbrlbns hshenms sunmum eibidicujua dddelhm, etfortislt-
mlm
imagimtionem quad talis cibus esset eos sanatu:os,_come-
dendo eum, saepissime fuisse sanatos, etiamsl ipsi cibi secundum
regulas medicine 1111 morba noxii et eoutrurli hlberentur.......
Quod cum non Bat virtute naturali ipsorum ciborum, reliquum
est, ut non flat nisi vixtute Hrme egrorum coniidentie et in-
mumn. iuewnmsm 181
to the same purpose- In- his opinionvvaet-is the
power of the' in-ind ini determiningl the operatic!
and eliicaey of medicines. It will, according to
him, not only diminish or increase theiii usual ef-
fects, but also change them f»0`$'§l8lll\6l of opera-
tion direetly contrary; and oommunicasd a healing
quality to the most. inadequate means; eveni to si
bread-pill disguised as=a» medicine; anld swallowed-
withavast' confidence in the skill of the person
who administers it."*
This subjwl of the sanative inBuoncoeoI faith
and confidence in lhedical- practice, is treated
profound knowledge; and much philosophical ecu-
men, by a~ learned and able Writer in a French pub-
lication, at one time, I believe, of considerable oo-
lebriey and extensive- circulation. The write! in
question observes, that, "if it be true (and indeed
it cannot be doubted) that among. the canals whinll
are
capable cl' modifying the state of the vital func-
tions, there are none more rapid, more
powerful,
and- more
infallible, than moral impressions; of
what mighty importance is it for the physician to
acquire a
practical knowledgeof the curative efecta
which these impression may peodnco! And' how
mms im»ghm:ims."_Fienus quam mmy une: authorma
nndglvesseve|ll-exl.l1f\wd`thoe&a¢yof\l||p!h:'§|h
'
Plexus, Oh- p. 421-422.-The above quotation-is frm
Douglas, Bishop of Sslisbury's treatise, entitled, The Criterion,
&c.
`
182 LHIMAL Maeulmsu.
can he be permitted to remain ignorant of the in-
fluence exerted on the state of the sick by that con-
fidence which they accord to the remedies which
are administered to them.
"
In its most feeble degree, this confidence, pro-
duced by the slightest causes, determines those ame~
liorations, already sutliciently perceptible, which
are
constantly observed in the case of certain pa-
tients, every time they change their physician or
the remedies.
"
More decided effects are manifested when a
physician, employing, for the. first time, a new re-
medy, eommunicates to the patient the hope of an
eilicacy, the precise limits of which have never
been indicated by any experience; and this is a
source of error from which even the most experi-
enced physicians do not always escape. How many
new substances are there, the eilicacy of which,
supported at fir t by many wonderfull cures, has at
length been reduced to nothing in the hands of ex-
perimentalists, who have made trial of them with
a sort of doubt and distrust? To what shall we
ascribe the curative effects of the magnet and oi'
Perkinism, and that of acupuncture so
recently
extolled ? It is a demonstrated fact, that the pras-
ic acid no
longer produces those effects which were
observed at the time when hopes were entertained
that it would prove a
preservative against phthisis.
Annum. Mscnmxsu. 183
Has not a well known physician recently announ-
ced, that he had administered successively, without
the slightest effect, enormous doses of that narco-
tic, of which some fractions of a
grain were at first
sufficient to soothe with almost complete certain-
ty P
"
When the new
remedy is kept secret, the ei-
cess of confidence inspired in some minds by the
mystery which surrounds it, renders its curative
effects still more decided, especially in certain com-
plaints in which the imagination plays a
great part.
Hence the miracles produced at all times, and in
all countries, by the superstitiousrecipes against
madness.
"
But, in order to observe the effects of confi-
dence in its most elevated degree, we must look for
them among pious patients, who, with lively faith,
invoke the aid of superior intelligences. In them
every requisite is combined-implicit faith-a iirm
and unbounded confidence in the support of a
pro-
tecting Power which has no
limits-finally, religi-
ous exaltation, which, considered-in itself, is utii-
cient to render the organism soft as wax to all the
modifications induced by the imagination! It is
'
Nothing can be more manifestly unjust and unphilosophi-
cal, although there is nothing more usual, than to maintain that
all which takes place in cases of mental exnltation is mere de-
ceit snd imposition. Such an opinion can only adse from a
want of due attention to those psychological principles which
13% NNIHAL MAGNMISM-
inoaoh cases, therefore, that are _manifested those
mi|'aoulo\u.curos~in which all religious sects, With-
out exception, have gloried in their commence-
frssquehtbrmautfest 011 the human
constitution: For it cannot be doubted that the influence of the
soulon the body is oh.en as great as that of the body on the
#PHL hitherto, Pl\!4°iWl.bY°=¢°1lf1!1¢d.U1¢if Studie*
principally to the latter. Even in the ordinary state, we can
relieve ourselves from pain and suferlnglby a firm exercise of
volition, by §xlng.»the attention upon other objects; -nay, very
serious complaints may occasionally be wrd ill 151118 FRY- It
is well known, as has been already observed, what astonishing
elfects maybe produced upon the human body by violent joy,
surprise, terms-r-how auilyfear and anxietyaf mind may ge-
nerate How, then, wit be fleniedthst =
profound devotional feeling, which in some individuals far sur-
passes all other feelings in power and intensity, may 'likewise
hw# the 8\'Q°®¢¢;i11f1u¢P°¢ M9011 the hum1\n;b°<17 ?
Indeed, it would be much more incomprehensible if_this were
not the ease, than that it is so; and it must appear at least
equally tncomprehenslble that -w=lne,|qhioh eghilarates, and to a
certain degree elevates .theswl of mm, lh°1\l.<1 #lv be an ad-
mirable medicine in many diseases, as thats. firm confidence in
God should penetrate body and soul, and again restore the sink-
insonnrsies- »
No true physician, therefore, will be when men are
relieved from corporeal suferlng by a
strong and lively mith;
and he will nadlly-permit the more ignorant to represent these
wee at miracles, while be .wen in-.them only the -¢if°°$= °f the
same xmiversal power of nature, of the same Spirit, which lies
at the bottom of all other phenomena. The miraculous cures,
so called, must interest _him even _as mere natural phenomena,
as from them he can derive _new proqfh of the high importance
of the ,mane willbe eq,\l1\11}'_Qdl6ed in his
way by these facts, asthat devout _mind which contemplate!
them as miracles.
nrnmr. onouxrlsll- 185
ment, even when the BXBltB»ld0ll of Ih¢ll'-'f0u0W9l`5
did not .go the length of pmducingthe ecstatic ari-
sis, along .wish the incomprehensible phenomena
which accompany it. in Blot, atorfberlIlallif8StBti0l1
of miraculous, cures uethingomoreis lweieary than
a
general and lively faith: and thsrolis no religion
whieh, even -in its decline, :has .not endeavoured to
remnkindle the zeal of itefollowers, in order to ob-
tain them. When .Pnqgnislmsverywhere in ruins,
was
rapidly disappearing 'before-the numerous mi-
racles performed by thefaith_0f1tl|e_uew Christians,
it still endeavmxred in muilltllillo its ,credit _in the
public estimation, by the supernatural cures per-
formed infthe temples of lEsculapius; _and to these
the defenders of Christianity could only object by
aseribing themto the devil/'
'
The practice of ascribing these physical or
magnetic cures
tohls Satanic nqi tysnd his millitberi, prevdiled downtoa
very late perlod, end is, perhaps, not even yet entirely extinct.
The belief in question appears to have been powerfhlly en-
couraged by the "
three black Grace:-Law,fPhysic, and Di-
vinity." Amonyt o varlety of writersupon I may
refer the reader to the commencement of the second partition
of old Burton's Anatomy qf Melancholy, in which he will find a
variety of learned opinions upon this question. Nicholas Tau-
rellus says that "
common experience confirms to our astonish-
ment, that magicians can work such feats, and that the Devil
without impediment can penetrate through all the parts of our
bodies, and cure such maladies, by means to us unknown."
But, then, with regard to the lawfulness of such cures :-" It
matters not," saith Paracelsus, "whether it be God or the devil,
angels, or unclean spirlts cure him, so that he be cond." In
186 ANIMAL naem-:'r|sM.
"
If we wished to a
particular rank to the
phenomena which are
produced in our
days by the
partizans of Animal Magnetism, we should place
their cures
immediately after those which result
from religious exaltation, and far above all that
can be produced by confidence ia an
ordinary re-
medy, however new, and however secret. The ar-
dent zeal of the magnetizers, the almost supernatu-
ral marvellousness of the phenomena they describe,
the nature of their processes, which require a
long
continued re
'
ll this is amply suiiicient
to explain the difference which exists to their ad-
vantage." -
We may all recollect something of the wonder-
ful cures alleged to have been wrought at the tomb
of the Abbé Paris in France, and of the acrimoni-
ous controversies to which the circumstances gave
rise. By the friends of the Saint, these cures were
ascribed to the miraculous interposition of Divine
Power; whilst his enemies, in order to get rid of
them, were forced into an utter denial of their rea-
lity. Both parties were completely blinded by false
opposition to such atheistical opinions, honest old Burton him-
self magnanimously contends,-" much better It were for such
patients that are so troubled, to endure a little misery in this
lite, than to hazard their soul's health for ever; and (ss Delrlo
counselleth) much better die, than be so cured." This last opinion
would probably be most popular among the liculty.
°
14 cm, ; No. ao, mn July ms.
ANIMAL msezwrxsm. 187
zeal, and both were most egregiously in' the wrong.
Some of these cures, at least, if not all, were unde-
niable; but they were no miracles, in the proper
sense of the word. The learned Bishop of Salis-
bury, who had carefully investigated the subject,
admits, that "
whoever attentively weighs the evi-_
dence urged in support of some of them, mustown'
that few matters of fact ever were confirmed by'
more
unexceptionable testimony. They were per-4
formed openly, in the sight of the whole world; in;
the heart of one
ofthe greatest cities in the uni-
verse; on
persons whom every body could see and
examine; whose diseases could not be counterfeit-
ed, because we have the certificates of the most'
eminent physicians who had previously attended
or examined them; and whose recovery every in-
habitant of the city of Paris could satisfy himself
of, because they lived on the spot. And that the'
facts were examined into with all the art and ad-
dress of the ruling part of- the clergy, baclxed by
the civil magistrate, is too notorious to admit of a
dispute; as it is, also, that some of them could stand;
the examination, and remained undetected." Ac-
A- The cfwfam, by .mm Douglas, n. n., Lord Bishop or
Salisbury. .
_
Scenesofaslmilar character again occurredin more recent
times, and occasionedarenewal of the same discussions. I shall
take the liberty of quoting the following observations upon the
~
VOL. I. -
H
'
198 mann. lmunxsn.
cordingly; the Bishop very properly admits the raw-
lity of these dures, and justly aocribes them to the
principles I have already noticed-#religious eutha-
siasm, a
lively lhith, and
unbounded collfidvnee.
subject. by m
ingenious writer, to whom I have already re-
ferred.
"
There had lately discovered at Lyohd in dld tomb,
which, right or wrong, lsbelieved tobethat ofstlubin. Heu-
upon, the lmaglnations of the pious have become exalted, and
some diseased'
' '
"
peraems, mfirsus lo experience the of' new
relics, have found their eolnplaihts alleviated near this tomb, We
are told that a womm, who had been anlferlng from paralysis,
was completely cured. These circumstances have given great
to mme phllbbopheis, the Whlth of cerfln jbufnillsté
hilieenklndled, andapparenh\yt»p\mislt&whlnanfi|rhxvlng
been, or believed herself to have been cured, they have hastened
to acquaint the public that had become lniné- il: is dl$cult
wpmselve new this mimilyebuld Gimlnish the raalityuf Inf
miraculous cure. In the mean time, the account appeared of im-
portance, and was
repeated in all the joumals which espoused
the same me; which drew down upon me mme af diem s pu,
sitlve contradiction on the part of the Gaidto Udhandkda Lyon.,
which, reasonably. enough, defended the mhaculous cure.
"With regard to- our liberals, why will they not allow the re-
lics; and the newly discovered tomb of the dnt, so produce in
our days, the same ediécts which therelios and the tomb! of all
the me have proeucea in all amen 2 sc Juian may wen be
permitted so ao, fee soine time, al Lyons, that wlilch St mi-is
dial, during more than ten years, at Puig in the middle of the
18th century-that which Prince Hohenlohe, all alive as he is,
has been doing; since the eommencedieht of the lllth century,
throughout the whole extent of Catholic Europe. It is an in~
cooteltihlle het, and demonstrated by the religious hitory of all
thhes, that, whenever a lively filth lu superior power was coin-
umea with nm aonnaenee, cures vue the rerun.
\Vhy, then, obstinately deny them? Assuredly, we au§1\ not
Annan. nuonrsrsss. 139
In concluding these fer observations upon the
vast sanative influence of faith md coniidence, I
shall take the liberty of laying before my readers
the following extract of a communication from a
gentleman at the Hsvannah, which will be found
in the Monthly Magazine for February 1820. ~
"
Since my arrival, for about a
year, Ilmve wit-
nessed the sucoemive extinction of about four-fifths
of those who have arrived from Europe. A terri-
ble disorder-the vostitn negro, or
yellow fever-
almost invariably attacks the newly-landed. In
vain do I inquire what is the cause of this disease,
and what are the remedies provided against it
The physicians of the country are as uninformed
on this subject as I am; ss
evidently appears from
the different prescriptions which they distribute,
and which all tend to one common result-that of
to believe, upon light grounds, events which are almost always
exaggerated by enthusiasm ; butlnstesd offeeling annoyed when
similar accounts sre published, philosophers would do well to
investigate and ascertain the iiicts, to present them in their just
degree of importance, and to enlighten the public on the subject
ofthdr nstumesnd causes. Ismmuch decdved ifsuchconduct
would not make a
greater impression than s ridiculous exaspe-
ration, or stale rsillery, which are more calculated to excite fs-
naticlsm, then to destroy it It is time that science diould
tranklytskeposesdonof these mirsculouscures,whichsreso
evidently within its domain, and which constitute s very inte-
resting chspter of that powerful influence of the morsl over the
physical nature of msn, so frequently sppesled to, sud yet hi.-
therto so little appreciated in its more curious results."-Le
Globe, ut mp.
140 Annan. Msenrrlsuf
conducting their unhappy patients to the grave.
At the same time"--and to this passage l would
especially direct the attention of the reader--" at
the same time, the Negro women are much more suc-
aessjidin their treatment¢y`thefawl_fever than the
regularfaculty ; they inspire coz;/idence, which calms
the patient, and then, probably, Nature does the rest.
The very captains, who have brought away the
Negresses from the coast of Africa, are obliged
to implore their benevolent assistance, and are fre-
quently indebted for the preservation of their lives
to those whom they have deprived of their country
and their liberty." _
Now, these Negro women were
undoubtedly
quacks, and, as such, I presume, would have been
liable to prosecution and punishment, at the in-
stance of the Faculty, in every civilised and well-
governed realm. Yet the sanative processes, so
successfully employed by them, would appear to
have been truly Hippocratic; and it must be evi-
dent ito all who are conversant with the subject,
that they bore a
striking resemblance to the mag-
netic treatment!
°' "
The following account of the first appearance of the ve-
nereal disease is given by Villalbar When, in l493, this pre-
viously unknown disease appeared at Seville, the king and queen,
Ferdinand and Isabella, ordered their physicians to attend the
persons amicted with it in the hospital of San Salvador. Many
physicians and professors laboured for 'seven or
eight months,
ANIMAL Macsnrrsm. 141
I have said that faith and confidence are
requi-
site conditions of the success of every important
transaction of life, as well as of medicine and mag-
netism* This is a
principle which scarcely re-
quires illustration. What, I would ask, was the
grand secret of the brilliant successes of all those
great men, who, at dillerent periods, have astonish-
ed the world bythe almost never-failing accomplish-
applying thousands of remedies without benedt. The famous
physician Maestro Francisco de Gebralion, and thecelebrsted
Doctors Bodiga, Aragones, and Infantos, held councils, the nr
sult of which was a declaration that the disease was a
scourge
of Heaven, which attacked alike all ages and complexions, cities,
and villages, and that all physical remedl had till then proud
ineliicacious; they were therefore of opinion, that every one
who had greater experience should be allowed to undertake the
cure of the disorder, and prayed the king to permit non-gra~
duates to try their skill upon it. The consequence was, that a
weaver actually cured most of the patients with a sort of oint-
ment."-Litmn-y Gazette, tbr February 18. 1832.
' "
We all know that, in undertaking any diHcult task which
requires moral energy, the confidence we have in our
powers,
and the hope of success, contribute much towards enabling us
to surmount obstacles. When _one body of troops marches to
the attack of another, if it is well convincedof its superiority, if
it has no doubt of obtaining the victory, it will possess a Prodi.
glous advantage over the enemy, even
although the latter should
be superior in numbers. When soldiers make an assault, we see
them scale walls and clear ditches, which would certainly have
arrested them, if they were not previously convinced that no-
thing could resist their impetuosity. Magnetism has for its
principle a moral action ; it is the will which dartsforth the fluid
as it impresses motion; and is it surprising that confidence
should augment its energy P"-Drusuza; Defense du Magu-
rimw Animal, p. 1067
l4£ .uulat ruenrnsu.
ment of their splendid, their glorious, their won-
derfixl achievements-the Alemanders, the Hanni-
bsls, the Ocean, the Mahomets, the Tanierlanes,
the Charleses, the Cromwells, the Frederica, the
Bonapartes, 8w~ ? I answer, that it is In be found,
in a
great measure, in an unbounded confidence in
their own powers, a firm, a
lively faith, and an
energetic, a despotic volition. In the words of the
poet : Poscunt quia posse vidcntur--they were capa-
ble of performing great things, because they had a
strong, an unflinching faith in their own
ability,
and confidently looked for success in all their en-
terprises. The professors of Animal Magnetism
will tell us, that these were all magnetic men-
men who possessed, in an extraordinary degree,
that nervous power, that determined volition, and
that indomitable confidence, which gave additional
vigour to all their energies, and enabled them to
perform actions which, to ordinary mortals, might
almost appear impossible. I may add, in the lan-
guage of a noble living author, that "one of the
surest marks of a great mind is the confidence with
which it knows how to inspire others."
I have aleady observed, I believe more than
once, that our modern physiological systems be-
tray far too great a leaning to materialism; they
treat of man as a merely passive being-as little
'
Lord Mahon, History ofthe War qfthe Succession in Spain.
Aman. useuirrisx. 148
more than a machine; while the study of his spi-
ritual nature has been almost totally neglected*
Yet the latter is, at least, equally inters ting to the
physician, and far more so to the philosopher. It
makes us better acquainted with the various sym-
pathies and susceptibilities of our being, and leads
us to the discovery of the true spring: of our ac-
tions, which will always be the more admirable,
the farther they are removed from materialism and
medhanism»-fthe nearer
they approach to the an-»
ture of the inoorporealt the spontaneous, the spiri-»
tual-*tha more immediately they proceed from our
independent mural energies#-the more manifestly
they svinee the dominion of mind over matter.
Si volueria magna operon; says William Maxwell;
one of tha most ingenious of the predecessors of
Mesmer, covporeitatem a rebus pro posse dems, vel
corporidsspirituadde: Nisi aliqnid Iwrumfeoeria
anlquam magni operaberiarl-
'
One greet cause of this neglect may probably be found in
the clréinnttmce, that Physiology has been more cultivated by
medical writers than by philosophers; and we are told by H061
mann and Conringlus that Madioo, qua Medicus, ignota at Ani-
mtl.
1- If you would accomplish great things, you must divest ob.
jects, as much as poMb1e, of their materiality, or add spirit to
matter: Unless you do one or other of these, you will never
perform any thing great.
( 14,4 _)
CHAPTER VI.
Arran the preceding, I trust not altogether un-
necessary or
uninteresting and nninstrnctive, epi-
sode upon the subject of those sympathetic and~
moral influences., ,which are
occasionally operative
in the cure of diseases-and-which, if treated at
the length their importance deserves, would pro-
bably occupy far too great a
proportion of this pub-
lication ;-I shall now
proceed to a much more ex-
traordinary topic, and .direct the attention of my
readers to some
very remarkable instances which
have been recorded of the wonderful power of hu-
man volition, iirst, over the corporeal organism of
the individual exerting it, and then over that of
others.
`The most surprising cures, indeed, are said to
have been occasionally elfectuated psychically, and,
as it were, magically, without employing any tan-
gible or
ponderable remedy, or
any visible medium,
by the mere iniiuence of the will and determination
of the individual over the corporeal organs. The
celebrated German metaphysician, Kant,'wrote a
small treatise, addressed to Dr Hufeland, upon the
ANIMAL MAGNETJSU. |45
power of mental resolution in overcoming painful
sensations ari ing from some derangernent of the
animal economy; and he observed, that this power
was most eiiicaciously exerted in the case of spas-
modic affections. This observation has been con-
firmed by the experience of the animal magnetizers,
who have occasionally witnessed cases of a similar
description, and have themselves performed cures,
by means of a strong effort of the will and resolu-
tion, without the emplloyment of any manipula-
tions, or, indeed, of any physical media whatever.
Passavantlmentions, that he knew a
lady who
cured herself of spasms in this manner.-Her hus-
band, to whom she was
tenderly attached, always
treated her with coldness and indiiference when-
ever she was seized with any afection of this kind;
and this circumstance induced her to exert a
power-
ful eH`ort of resolution, of which she was otherwise
incapable, and in consequence of which she suc-
ceeded in effecting a
complete cure.* Brandis,
principal physician to the king of Denmark, re-
lates several cases of a similar description; in pur-
ticular, one of a
lady whom he cured of violent
spasms, and another of a
young man whom he
cured of St Vitus's dance, by resolutely forbidding
'
Untcrnuohungen aber den lzberu Magnetianuc und das Hell-
sahan. Von Dr J. C. Passavant. Frankfl a M. 1821.
VOL I. N
146 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
him to yield to the attack! The treatment resort-
ed to by Boerhaave, in the case of the convulsive
children in the Orphan-House at Haarlem, appears
to have been of the same kind.
Indeed, there is a
variety of instances upon re-
cord of the most marvellous and incredible influ-
ence of volition over the bodily organization, even
in the case of such operations as cannot be con-
ceived to depend, in any degree, upon the will of
the individual. Thus, in Franklin's Journey to the
Polar Sea (p. 157), a strange story is told of a man,
who, after eamest prayer, became provided with
milk, and actually suckled a child.
Bernier, in his Ceremonies et Coutumes Religi-
euaes (tom. vi. p. 188), informs us, that voluntary
somnambulism is frequent among the Indian Bra-
mins and Fakirs, and that even the means of pro-
ducing it are taught. In Avicenna's treatise De
Animalibus, a case is reported of a man who pos-
sessed the power of paralyzing his limbs at plea-
sure, hy an effort of volition. Cardanus relates of
himself, that he could voluntarily place himself in
a state of ecstatic insensibility.-r St Austin, in his
'
Brandis, Heber puychisohe Heilmittel und Magncticmus. Co-
penhagen, 1818.
-f Quatuor mihi indita sunt a nature, quae nuuquam aperiri
volui, et omnia (meojudicio)admiratione digna. Quorum primum
hoc est, quod quoties volo, extra sensum quasi in ecstasim tran-
seo, &c.-De Remm Varietale, lib. viii. c. 43. Something similar
ANIMAL uucnmxsra. 14,7
work De Civitate Dei, has recorded two case of a.
similar description; the one of a man who could
perspire when he wished it; and the other of a
priest, Restitutus by name, who, whenever he
pleased, could throw himself into a state of com-
plete insensibility, and lie like a dead man.*
One of the most extraordinary, the most circum-
stantial, and the most authentic instances which
have been recorded, of the astonishing power of'
volition over the bodily organization, is that re-
lated by the celebrated Dr Cheyne in one of his
medical treatises,1- and which appears to have been
verified by the most exact observation, and ub7
stantiated by the most irrefragable evidence. _
It
.is the case of a Colonel Townsend, who, as in the
instance mentioned by St Austin, could die, to all
is related of that singular character Emanuel Swedenborg; and
also, it is believed, of Jacob Behmen.
`
A
'
Illud multo est incredlbilius, quod plerique frstres memo-
ria recentisaima experti sunt. Presbyter fuit quidam, nomlne
Restitutus, in parmcia Calamensis eccleslm, quando ei plncebat,
rogabatus aut ut hoc facerit ab eis qui rem mirabilem corem scire
cupiebsnt., ad imitatis quasi lamentmtis cqjuslibet voces, lta se
auferebat a sensibus, et jacebat simillimus mortuo; ut non solum
bellicantes atque pnngentes minime sentiret, sed aliquando etiam
igne ureretur admoto, sine ullo dolorls sensu, nlsi post modun; a
vulnere; non autem obnitendo, sed non sentiendo non movere
corpus, eo probatur, quod tanquam in defuncto nullus invenie-
bstur snhelitus; hominum tamen voces, si clarius loquerentur,
tanquam de longinquo se audisse referebat.
-|- Cheyne, English Malady, &c.
14,8 ANIMAL Mscnurisu.
appearance, at any time that he chose, and having
lain for a considerable period in that state, could
resuscitate himself by a
voluntary struggle.
"
He
could die," says Dr Cheyne,
"
or
expire when he
pleased, and yet, by an eifort, or somehow, he could
come to life again. He insisted so much upon our
seeing the trial made, that we were at last forced
to comply. We all three felt his pulse Hrst: it
was distinct, though small and thready, and' his
heart had its usual beating. He composed himself
on his back, and lay in a still posture for some
time; while I held his right hand, Dr Baynard laid
his hand on his heart, and Mr Skrine held a clean
looking-glass to his mouth. I found his pulse sink
gradually, till at last I could not feel any by the
most exact and nice touch. Dr Baynard could not
feel the least motion ia his heart, nor Mr Skrine
perceive the least soil of breath on the bright mir-
ror he held to his mouth. Then each of us, by
turns, examined his arm, heart, and breath, but
could not, by the nicest scrutiny, discover the least
symptom of life in him. We reasoned along time
about this odd appearance as well as we could, and
finding he still continued in that condition, we be-
gan to conclude that he had indeed carried the ex-
periment too far; and at last we were satisfied that
he was
actually dead, and were
just ready to leave
him. This continued about half an hour. By nine
Amman MAGN E'r1sM. 149
in the morning, in autumn, as we were going away,
we-observed some motion about the body, and, upon
examination, found his pulse and the motion of his
heart gradually returning: he began to breathe
gently, andspeak softly. We were all astonished
to the last degree at this unexpected change, and,
after some farther conversation with him and among
ourselves, went away fully satisfied as to all the
particulars of this fact, but confounded and puzzled,
and not able to fbrm any rational scheme that
might account for it."
In the foregoing instances, we
perceive the asto-
nishing power which certain individuals appear to
have over their own
bodily organization;
and I am now
going to bring under the view of
the reader a still more incredible power, treated of
by many authors, which is said to enable one indivi-
dual, by an
energetic effort of volition, to produce
very extraordinary effects upon the corporeal or-
ganism of another. The existence of such a
power
was maintained by several ancient writers *; and,
in modern times, by a numerous sect of physicians
and philosophers, during the sixteenthand seven-
teenth centuries. It would be tedious toattempt
a minute examination of the various opinions of
thi numerous class of writers, and to point out
their several coincidences. Much of thatwhieb they
'
Vide Fmxus, De
Ilribau
150 ANIMAL Mseusrxsm.
assert or relate, mly have been taken .up too ere-
dulously, upon trnst, and without due investigation;
but still there are many things. which they aiiirm
upon their own
experimental knowledge, or
upon
the credibletestirnony of others, and these deserve
a serious consideration. Of these authors, Imay
mention, as the most eminent, Pomponatius,
*
Ro-
dolphus Geclenius, -|~ Athanasins Kircher,I Ven
Hel1nont,|] Sir Kenelm Digby, § Wihiam "Max,
well,1I VJ. G. Burgrave,_** .Sebastian Wirdig,l~H-
'
Pxraus Pouroxsnns, Dc Inoantalionibus. Basil, IM7.
-1' Ron- Goctmur Tract. dd Magund. Vain. Carat. Mar-
burgl, 1608, et Frsncoil 1613.
I Aram. Kuzcnnn, Magrm, sive do Ark Magnetioa. _ Co-
lon. 1648, et Rom. 16s4._Mag»¢¢amn Nm" Regnum, sw.
Amt. 1667.
A »
'
|| VAN Hznnorvr, D4 Magnet. Vuln. Cnrationc. -Paris,
1621.-_See also the other works of this author.
§ K. DIGBY, Of the Cure of Wounds by the Power of Sym-
pmy. Lond.'l660.
11 Gm.. Msxwnu., Medicina Magnet. libri tra, &.c.
in-mkf: 1679,
"
J. G. Bunemmvm, Biolyaluaium, nu Luoema vita, oui
aooeuit oura morborum magnelioa. 1629. This work I have not
seen; but I find it referred to by Kluge, under a title some-
what different.
-H- Snnsrxxu Wiamo, Nova Medicina Hamb.
1673. This also is a work which I have not been able to procure;
but I find the following remarkable quotation Eoml it on the
title-page of a treatise, entitled Manner jwtifé :
"
Totus mundus
constst et positus est in magnetismo; omnes sublunarium vieis.
situdines Hunt per magnetismum; vita conservatur magnetismo;
inter-itus omnium rerum duntper msgnetismum."-P. -178.
ANIMAL Mscumxsm. 151
Joaunes Bohnius, *'
&c. All of these writers, and
many others, assumed the existence of an univer-
sal magnetic power, by which they attempted to
explain the dependence and reciprocal action of
bodies, in general, upon each other, and, in particu-
lar, the phenomena of the vital organization. They
also broadly and distinctly maintained the proposi~
tion, that the will or imagination of man, when en-
ergetically called into action, is capable of p1'oduc~
ing certain perceptible effects upon the organism of
other living beings, even at a considerable distance.
This last proposition has been, perhaps, most
clearly enunciated by Pomponatius and Van Hel-
mont; and considering them as the representatives
of the whole of this class of writers, I deem it suf-
ficient to give an abstract of the opinions which
they entertained upon the subject we are now in-
vestigatiug.
Pomponatius'|' assumes it as a fact generally
acknowledged, that there are men -endowed with
'
Johanna Boinuus, Da Spirituum Animalium Medela.
I-Iamb. 1688.
To the list of authors given in the text, may be added, Jul.
Cas- Vanlnlus, Ds Admir. Natura amen. ; C- Agrippa ab Net-
teshelm, De Oaaulla Philooophta; Christopher Irving; N. Pa-
pin; Fludd, and a variety of others, who have either written
expressly upon the subject, or, at least, incidentally alluded to
it.
1' Petrus Pomponatius was bom at Mantua in 1462, and
died in 1525. He was Professor of Philosophy at Padua.
152 _
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the faculty of curing certain diseases, by means of
an etiiuenee or emanation, which the force of their
imagination directs towards the patient.
"
When
those," says he, "
who are endowed with this fa-
culty, operate by employing the force of the ima-
gination and the will, this force affect their blood
and their spirits, which produce the intended ef-
fects, by means of an
evaporation thrown out-
wards." *
He afterwards observes, that it is by no means
inconceivable that health may be communicated
to a sick person by this force of the imagination
and the will, so directed; and he compare this
susceptibility of health to the opposite susceptibi-
lity of the infection of disease.
' "
Possibile est apud me, quod homo habeat talem dispo-
sltlonem qualem dlximus. Sic continglt, tales homines qui ha-
beant hujusmodi vires in potentia, et per vim imaginativam et
desiderativam cum actu operantur, talisvirtus exit ad actum, et
a$cit sanguinem et spiritum, qui per evaporationem petunt ad
extra, et producunt tales effectus."-Cap. iv. p. 44.
1' "
Incredibile nan est, etiam sanitatem posse produci ad
extra ab snima taliter imaginante ec desiderante de egritudine."
_.P. 51.
' '
"
Quemadmodum aliquis potest iniici _et seg-ritudinem susci-
pere ab aliquo alio ex evaporatione, sic et aliquis secundum is-
tum modum potest suscipere sanitatem."--P. 88.
Vaninlus, in his work already referred to, has a.
passage to
the same effect :
"
Vehemenlem imaginationem, cui spirilus et san-
guic obodiunt, rem monte ooncoptam realiler qficere, non oolum intra,
aodetutm. Ergo prsepotentem anime de valetudine cogita-
tlonem posse a-rgroto sanitatis aliquid impertiri."-L. iv. dial. 5.
Amman Mscuarxsm. 158
In another passage, our author enumerates the
conditions of the exercise of this faculty, in nearly
the same terms as are
employed by the modern
magnetisers: and he adds, that the confidence of
the patient contributes to the ellicacy of the re-
medy.
It is necessary, says he, that he who exercises
this sort of enchantment should have great faith,
a
strong imagination, and a firm desire to cure the
sickness. But these dispositions are not to be
found equally in all men. *
There is also a curious passage in Maxwell upon this subject,
which I take the liberty of subjoining:
"
Imaginationem uh-I
corpus apemri olarum me puto. Et quid quaeso aliud est imagl-
natio quam, ut its dicsm, anime manus, per quas ills sine cor-
poris auxilio operatux-.'L_J|{ed. Magnet. l. i. cap. 2.
Here, too, I cannot avoid quoting a remarkable passage from
Cornelius Agrlppa ab Nettesheim, in which he asserts that it
ls possible for a man to communicate his thoughts to another,
even at s great distance, and appeals to his own
experience, as
well as to that of others, for the truth of the fhct: "
Possibile
est naturallter, et procul omni superstitione, nullo alio splrltu
mediante, hominem homini ad quamcunque, longlssimam etiam
vel incognitam, dlstantiam et mansionem, brevissimo tempore
posse nuntiare mentls suse eoneeptum: etsi tgmpusin quois~
tud Ht non posslt mensurarl, tamen intra viginti quatuor horn
id Herl omnlno neeesse est: et ego id facere novi, et sepius feci.
Novlt idem etlam fecitque quondam Abbas Trlthemius."-De
Ocouha Plsilosophia, lib. iii.
' "
Oportet prrecantatorem esse credulum, et mag-nam H-
dem adhibere, et habere vehementem imaginationem et fixum
desiderlum, et circa unamquamque aegritudinem. Modo patet
pon omnes homines esse sequaliter disposltos."-P. 73.
154, Annan. Mseumxsm.
It must not be concealed, however, that Pompo-
natius ascribes a much more
comprehensive power
to the magnetic virtue, than any other author whom
I have yet met with; and heeven goes so far as to
say, that, in certain. circumstances, it may render
the very elements, and matteritselfl subject to the
commands of man.
*
l
There is no author of that age who appears to
have ao fully anticipated the modem discovery of
Animal Magnetism, as Van Helmont;1~ indeed, in
perusing some parts of his works, we might almost
conceive that we were
occupied with the lucubra-
tions of some
disciple of Mesmer. His treatise,
' "
Cum hominis animae voluntaa, et maxime imaginativa,
fuerint vehementes, elements, venti et reliqua materialia sunt
nata obedire eis."-P. 237.
-|» John Baptist van Helmont was horn at Brussels in the
year 1577, and died in 1644. He was educated for the profes-
sion of a physician, but spent the greater partof his life in che-
mical researches. He discovered the laudanum of Paracelsus,
the spirit of hartshorn, and the volatile salts; and to him we
owe the Brst knowledge of the elastic airiform Buids, to which
he gave the name of gas, which they still retain. The science
of medicine is also under considerable obligations to Van Hel-
mont. But some of his most singular and original opinions are
those which relate to our subject. His works were collected,
some time after his death, and beautifully printed by Elzevir.
-In speaking of Van I-Ielmont, the learned Conringlus says 3
"
Helmontio multum dehemus, quod philosophantium sui aevi
errores acriter perstrlngendo, atque impugnando, excitavit tor-
pentla ad naturalem philosophlam ingenia, et post Verulamium
ad experimenta B nugacissimis quandoque ratiocinatlonibus re-
voeavit-"-al-I. Cbnrlngii, Introduct. in Univera. Art- Medio. 'L 28.
Annum. Maonnrxsu. 155
On the Magnetic Cure Qf Wounds, is, in this respect,
particularly remarkable. It was intended as an
answer to two authors, who had written upon -the
same
subject-Goclenius, a
physical philosopher-
then in considerable repute, and Father Robert, a
Jesuit. The first had maintained the reality of the
cures eifected by the magnetic means, and ascribed
them to natural causes. The latter did not deny
these cures, but condemned them as
proceeding
from the devil.
Van Helmont shews that Goclenius had feeblydo-
fended the cause of truth; and he proves, in oppo-
sition to Father»Robert, that there is nothing cri-
minal or diaboliealin the magnetic treatment, but
that all the phenomena depend upon natural causes.
"
Magnetism," says he, "
is an universal agent ;
there is nothing new in it but the name; and it is
a
paradox only to those who are
disposed to ridi-
cule every thing, and who ascribe to the influence
of Satan all those phenomena which they cannot
explain."* He defines Magnetism to be "
that
occult influence which bodies exert over each other
at a distance, whether by attraction or
by impul-
sion."'|~ The medium or vehicle of this influence,
'
Magnetismus, quia passim viget, praeter nomen, nil novi
eontinet; nec paradoxus nisi iis qui cuncta derident, et in Sata-
me dominium ablegant quaacunque non intelligant.
-1- Sic vocitamus eam occultam coaptationem qua absens in
156 Amman MAGNE'r|sM.
he designates by the name of the Magnale Magnum,
which he seems to consider as an universal fluid
pervading all nature. It is not, he continues, a
eorporeal substance, capable of being condensed,
measured, or weighed; but an ethereal, pure, vital
spirit, or essence, which penetrates all bodies, and.
acts upon the mass of the universe. With regard
to the human frame, he conceives that the eat of
this magnetic influence is ip the blood, and that it
is called forth and directed by the will. Van Hel-
mont occasionally gives to this influence the epi-
theta of ecstatic and magical, using the latter word
in its more favourable significationd*
In the same treatise, the author proceeds to say,
that he had hitherto delayed the communication of
absens perinfluxum agit, sive trahendovel impellendo fiat.-_
Sect. 69.
'
Lgitur in sanguine est quaedam potestas ecstatica, quae si
aliquando ardente desiderio excitata fiierit, etiam ad absens ali-
quod objectum, exterioris hominis spiritum dedueendo sit = ea.
autem potestas, in exteriori homine latet, velut in potentia; nec
ducltur ad actum, nisi excitetur accensa
imaginatione, ferventi
deslderio, aut arte aliqua pari.-Sect. 76.
f
Eadem vero anima, magica virtute non nihil expergefacta,
extra suum ergastulum, in aliud distans objectum solo nutu agere
posse, per media deportato ; in eo nempe sitam esse totam basim
magiae naturalis, nullatenus autem in ceremoniis variisque su-
perstitionibusw- Sect. 122.
Pcstremo est virtus magica a corpore quasi abstracts, qnae fit
excitamento interioris potestatis animae, unde fiunt potentissi-
mae procreationes et valldissimi effectus, et per phantasiam suam
aglt, et quo spirltualior eo potentior.-Sect. 157.
ANIMAL Msenrrrism.
'
157
a
great mystery, viz. that there resides in man a
peculiar energy, which enables him, by the mere
force of his will and imagination, to act at a dis-
tance, and to impress a virtue, to exercise an influ-
ence, upon a
very remote object* This power, he
admits, is incomprehensible; but there are other
powers and agents in nature which we are
equally
incapable of comprehending-such as the power of
human volition over the corporeal organs. The
union of the soul and the body, too, and their re-
ciprocal induence upon each other, depend upon
causes which we are unable to discover.'|'
Van Helmont also asserts, that we can
impress
upon another body the virtue with which we our-
selves are endowed; that we can thus communicate
to it certain properties, and make use of it as an
intermediate agent for producing salutary effects.
Hepmaintains, for example, that several vegetable
remedies derive a
peculiar eiiicacy from the imagi-
'
Ingens mysterium propalare hactenus distuli; ostendere
videlicet in hominesitam esse
energlam qua solo nutu et phan-
tasia sua quest agere ln distans, et lmpflmere virtutem, ali~
quam lntluentiam, deinceps per se
perseverantem et agentem in
objectum longissime absens-Sect. I58.
-1- To this may be added our
ignorance of the causes of Gra-
vitation, of the common Magnetism, of Electricity, &c. The
day, perhaps, is not far distant, when the remarkable anticipa-
tion of Kant will be realised, and when it will be generally re-
cognised snd admitted, that all of these phenomena are the pre-
duct of one
single and simple principle, differently medlded.
l58 miusr. MAGNETISM.
nation of the individual who gathers, prepares, or
administers them; and this is quite consistent with
the alleged experience of many of the modern pro-
fessors of Animal Magnetism. But one of the most
remarkable passages in this treatise is that in which
the author explains the conditions necessary to the
success of the magnetic treatment. "
We have al-
ready observed," says he, "
that all magical power
lies dormant in man, and that it requires to be ex-
cited. This is invariably the case, if the subject
upon whom we wish to operate is not in the most
favourable disposition; if his internal imagination
does not abandon itself entirely to the impression
which we wish to produce upon him; or if he, to-
wards whom the action is directed, possesses more
energy than he who operates. But when the pa-
tient is well disposed, or weak, he readily yields to
the magnetic influence of him who operates upon
him through the medium of his imagination. In
order to operate powerfully, it is necessary to em-
ploy some medium ; but this medium is nothing
unless accompanied by the internal action." All
this-at least in its essential points-as we shall
'
Diximus omnem fortassis magicam vim dormire et excita-
tione opus habere; quod perpetuo verum est, si objectum in
quod agendum est non sit proxime dispositum, si ejus interna
iintasia non prorsus annuat agentis impressioni, vel etiam si
robore patiens sit par vel superior agenti; at contra, &,c.--
Sect. 112
ANIMAL MAGNI-rrxsm. 159
afterwards see, is quite coincident with the modern
doctrine ofa Animal Magnetism introduced by Mes-
mer, and established by the numerous experiments
and observations of his successors.
There is nothing more
striking, and probably to
most persons, upon a first view, more incompre-
hensible, in the works of Van Helmont, and in-
deed of most of the early writers on the subject of
Magnetism, than the vast and mysterious influence
which they ascribe to the power of energetic and
concentrated volition-an opinion which could
hardly be founded but upon experience of the fact.
In this respect, too, there appears to be a remark-
able coincidence between their opinions and the
doctrines and practice of the Magnetic School of
Barbarin, which the reader will find explained in
the sequel.
The will, according to Van I-Ielmont, is the first
of powers. It was
by the will of the Almighty
that the universe was created; it was
by volition
that motion was originally impressed upon all ob-
jects; it is the will existing in man, which is the
principle of all his actions. Volition belongs to all
spiritual beings; it is the more active and power-
ful in them, in proportion as
they are
disengaged
from matter; and the energy with which it ope-
rates without the assistance of organs, is the essen-
tial characteristic of pure spirits. These positions
160 ANIMAL maeiwrlsu.
are laid down by our author in his treatise, entitled
/lctub Regiminis; where he repeats, in somewhat
diiferent Words, the opinions which he had so often
expressed in the work to which I have already so
fully referred!
'
,
It seems
unnecessary to take any notice of the
theory upon which, in another treatise, Van Hel-
mont endeavours to account for the phenomena to
which he refers. p
It may be observed, however,
that he there lays down more
clearly al principle,
which is implied in some of his preceding proposi-
tions, viz. that those who exert this magnetic in-
fluence, operate more or less powerfully according
to the energy of the will; and that the effects of
their operation may be impeded by the resistance
of that which is operated upon. A magician-f will
operate with much more
certainty upon weak than
upon robust beings; because the power of operat-
ing effectually by means of volition has its limits,
_and he who possesses energy of mind can
easily
resist it.1;
'
Est ergo tertia actio spiritibus incorporeis propria, qui non
requirunt ad agendum radium directum, nec aspectum subjecti,
nec ejus propinquitatem, dispositionem aut colligationem; sed
agunt solo nutu potestativo, longe vi iniiuentiali eflicaciore.-
Act. Regimin. Sect. 39.
1- This word might here be very properly translated Magne-
tiaar.
I See Van Helmont's Treatise, De Iqioalia
ANIMAL Maeusrxsm. 161
It would be premature, perhaps, at present, to
give any account of the observations and experi-
ments of Van Helmont on the subject ofthe ecsta-
tic, or
magnetic, crisis. In the mean time, I may
observe, that it appears quite evident from the
whole works of this author, that he was not only
perfectly well acquainted with the magnetic indu-
ence, but that he made use of it professionally. and
placed great confidence in its effects. He himself,
indeed, informs us, that when the plague was ra-
ging in the town of Brussels, he thought it his
duty to seize the opportunity of instructing him-
self, and of being useful to others. He according-
ly oifered his services to attend the sick ; neither
the fatigue, nor the fear of infection, could abate
his zeal, or
extinguish his charity.
"
Pereeiving,"
says he, "
that most
of the physicians deserted the
sick, I devoted myself to their service, and God
preserved me from the contagion. All, when they
saw me, seemed to be refreshed with hope and joy;
whilst I, supported by faith and confidence, per-
suaded myself that God would at length confer
upon me the science of an
adept."
These observationsand opinions of Van Helmont,
and other writers of his age, are
exceedingly curi-
ous, and certainly deserved a careful experimental
'
Promiua Auctoris, col. sect. 7.
VOL. I. 0
l62 Aiirxn Mssnartsm.
investigation.
-
But the style in which most of these
treatises were written, was so shrouded in mystical
expression ; the vague and unsatisfactory theories,
in which their authors delighted to indulge, tend-
ed so much to obscure the few facts which they
really developed; and the opinions they announced
were so much at variance with the common
philo-
sophical systems, as well as with the ordinary ex-
periences of life, that no
attempts appear to have
been 'subsequently made to ascertain thetruth or
falsehood of-their principles by a- fair appeal me me
decisive test of scientiiici experiment. About that
period, too, chemical science, and its application
to medicine, began to be cultivated with great zeal,
and prosecuted with eminent 'success ; and it was
not to be expected that much attention should be
devoted to a
subject so remote from the fashionable
scientific pursuits of the age. On the contrary,
the magnetic authors gradually came to be gene-
rally regarded as idle visionaries and contemptible
empiric ; they were
placed in the same 'class with
the astrologers and alchemists; their works were
consigned to neglect and oblivion, or, at most, were
only occasionally consulted by the curious, and re-
ferred to as striking instances of the hallucinations
of the human intellect. "Thus were the mystical
volumes of these magnetic philosophers allowed to
repose undisturbed, for a
long period, amidst the
ANIMA1. MAGNETISMJ 163
learned dust of our libraries, until, in recent times,
when the subjects of which they treated again be-
gan to attract a considerable hare of the attention
of philosophers upon the Continent, and many of
the most extraordinary opinions they maintained
were almost daily receiving fresh confirmation from
experience, they ,were
sought after with avidity,
drawn forth from their obscurity, carefully studied,
and appealed to by the professors of Animal Mag-
netism in support of their principles and practice.
I am quite aware that attempts may still be
made, by the incredulous, to get rid of these autho-
rities in a short and easy way, by representing
them as quacks, mystics, and visionaries-a charge
which is frequently brought against all those indi-
viduals who maintain uncommon opinions, or who
adopt a mode of practice different from that which
is sanctioned by their professional brethren. But
now we are enabled to subject the obnoxious tenets
to the test of experiment; and in all cases it is
surely more rational and philosophical to investi-
gate the truth of certain opinions, and the reality
or
possibility of certain facts, than to evade all in-
quiry, end endeavour to excite prejudice'by the
employment of silly and preposterous ridicule, or
by using opprobrious. names. If .Van Helmont
merits the name of quack, what physician of su-
164, ANIMAL nusm-:'r1sM.
perior attainments can
hope to escape the imputa-
tion of quackery ? Opinions supported by evidence,
however, cannot be invalidated by any such irra-
tional mode of opposition; and many of the opi-
nions I have noticed are not only corroborated by
some striking natural analogies, but confirmed by
unquestionable and unequivocal facts. Similar
opinions, too, were embraced, at a later period, by
authors of a much more
popular character, who
did not hesitatew maintain them openly, and to
give good reasons for the faith that was in them.
As an instance, I shall takeithe liberty of laying
before the reader an exceedingly curious passage
from the works of a very ingenious old English
writer, which, I think, will suiiiciently prove that
some, at
least, _of the facts which are said to have
been elicited by the magnetic practice, are not
quite such mere
visionary 'chimeras of modern
mystics, as
many persons, not conversant with the
subject, may have been induced to suppose. The
author to whom I allude is Joseph Glanvill, 'with
whose entertaining and instructive writings some
of my readers may be acquainted; and who relates,
as will be perceived, with great confidence, the
following remarkable and amusing story.
"
That one man should be' able to bind the
thoughts of another, and determine them to their
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 165
particular objects, will be reckoned in the first
rank of impossibilities :* Yet by the power of ad-
vanced imagination, it may very probably be eifect-
ed; and story abounds with instances. I'll trou-
ble the reader but with one; and the hands from
which I had it, make me sure of the truth on't.
There was very lately a lad in the University of
Oxford, who being of very pregnant and ready
parts, and yet wanting the encouragement of pre-
ferment, was by his poverty forced to leave his
'
Dr Bertrand mentions two very curious iiicts, Billing within
his own experience, which seem to prove that somnambulists
are capable of penetrating the thoughts of others with whom
they are placed an
rapport. In performing upon his first som-
nambulist, the process by means of which he was accustomed to
awaken her, with a iirm determination, at the same time, that
she should not awake, she was instantly seized with violent con-
vulsions. On his enquiring what was the matter, she answered,
"
How I you bid me awake, and you dont wish me to awake."
The other example is the following a-A poor woman, unedu-
cated and unable to read, was said to be capable, in
somnambulism,
of understanding the meaning of words, of the signiiication of
which she was
ignorant when awake; and, in point of fact, she
explained to Dr Bertrand, in the most exact and ingenious
manner, what we
ought to understand by the word encephalon,
which he proposed to her; a phenomenon which, unless we
assume the hypothesis of an accident as diilicult to admit as the
supposed faculty, can only be explained by acknowledging that
this woman read, in the very thoughts of the doctor, the signi-
fication of the word about which she was
interrogated.
This fact of the intimate rapport existing between the operator
and the patient, may afford us a key to many of the mysteries
of Animal Magnetism; but it is not the less extraordinary in
itsel£_BEn.'raaND, p. 439.
°
166 ANIMAL MAGN1-:'r1sM.
studies there, and to cast himself upon the wide
world for a livelihood. Now, his necessities grow-
ing daily upon him, and wanting the help of friends
to relieve, he was at last forced to join himself to
a
company of vagabond Gypsies, whom occasional-
ly he met with, and tofollow their trade for _a
maintenance. Among these extravagant people, by
the insinuating subtilty of his carriage, he quickly
got so much of their love and esteem, as that they
discovered to him their mystery; inthe practice
of which, by the pregnancy of his wit and parts,
he soon grew so
good a
proficient, to be able to
out-do his instructors. After he had been a
pretty
while well exercised in the trade,`there chanced to
ride by a
couple of scholars, who had formerly been
of his acquaintance. The scholars had quickly
spied out their old friend among the Gypsies, and
their amazement to see him among such society
had well-nigh discovered him; but hy a he
prevented their owning him before that crew; and
taking one of them aside privately, desired him
with his friend to go to an inn, not far distant
thence, promising there to come to them. They
accordingly went thither, and he follows. After
their first salutations, his friends inquired how he
cametoleadsooddalifeas.thatwas,andtojoin
himself with such a cheating, heggarly company?
The scholar-Gypsy, having given them an account
ANIMAL Masnmlsm. 167
of the necessity which drove him to that kind of
life, told them that the people he went with were
not such imposters as
they were taken for, but that
they had a traditional kind of learning among them,
and could do wonders by the power of Imagina-
tion, and that himself had learnt much of their art,
and improved it further than themselves could.
And to evince the truth of what he told them, he
said he'd remove into another room, leaving them
to discourse together; and upon his return tell
them the sum of what they had talked of ; which
accordingly he performed, giving them a full ac-
count of what had passed betweenthem in his ab-
sence. The scholars being amazed at so
unexpect-
ed a
discovery, earnestly desired him to unriddle
the mystery; in which the gave them satisfaction,
by telling them that what he did was
by the power
of Imagination, his Fancy binding theirs; and that
himself had dictated to them the discourse they
held together while he was from them : That there
were warrantable ways of heightening the Imagi-
nation to that pitch as to bind another's; and that
when he had compassed the whole secret, some
parts of which he said befwae yet ignorant of,-he
intended to leave their company, and give the
world an account of what he had learued."*
'
Lord Bacon (long before Glanvill), in .his Sylva Sylvarunn
(Century x. sect. 946), tells the following story coniirmative of
the same principle.
168 suxun. Msosnrrsm. _
Such is the story told by Glanvill, an author
perfectly worthy of all credit, who afterwards
maintains that this strange power of the imagina-
"
I related one time to a man that was curious and vain
enough in these things, that I saw a kind ofjuggler, that had a
pair of cards, and would tell a man what cardhe thought. This
pretended learned man told me, it was a
mistaking in me;
'
for,'
said he, 'It was not the knowledge of the man's thought, for
that is proper to God, but it was the enforcing of a thought upon
Mn, and binding his imagination by a
stronger, that he could think
no other card.' And thereupon he asked me s question or two,
which I thought he did but cunningly, knowing before what
used to be the feats of the juggler.
'
Sir,' said he,
'
do you re-
member whether he told the card the man
thought, himself; or
bade another to tell it ?' I answered, as was true, that he bade
mother tell it. Whereunto he said,
'
So I thought; for,' said
he,
'
himself could not have puton so
strong an
imagination ;
but by telling the other the card, who believed that the juggler
was some strange man, and could do strange things, that other
msn caught s strong imagination." I hearkened unto him,
thinking for a vanity he spoke prettily. Then he asked me
another question. Saith he, '
Do you remember, whether he
bade the man think the card first, and afterwards told the other
man in his ear what he should think; or else that he did whisper
first in the man's ear that should tell the card, telling that such
a msn should think such s card, and after bade the man think a
card? I told him, as was true, that he did Hrst whisper the
man in the ear, that such a man should think such a card: upon
this the learned man did much exult and please himself; saying.
'
Lo, you may see that my opinion is right; for if the man had
thought first, his thought had been fixed; but the other ima-
gining first, bound his thoughts.' Which, though it did some-
what sink with me, yet I made it lighter than I thought, and
said, I thought it was confederacy between the juggler and the
two servants; though, indeed, I had no reason so to think, for
they were both my father's servants, and he had never played
in the house before."
Anmsx. Msousrism. 169
tion is no impossibility, and contends that this ex-
traordinary inlluence seems no more unreasonable
than that of "one string of a lute upon another,
when a stroke on it causeth a
proportionable mo-
tion in the sympathizing consort, which is distant
from it, and not sensibly touched."
In the sequel of this publication, I shallhave
occasion to bring forward many stories equally
strange, marvellous, and incredible--stories grave-
'
A still more curious observation occurs in Gardiner's Music
of Natura :-" It has been found that, in a watchmaker's shop.
the time-pieces or clocks, connected with the same wall or shelfi
have such a sympathetic effect in keeping time, that they stop
those which beat in irregular time; and if any are st rest, set
a-going those which beat accurately."
The sympathy between stringed musical instruments, al-
luded to by Glanvilhalthough more familiar to us, is perhaps
as extraordinary as any of the phenomena of Animal Magnetism _
This subject brings to my recollection the following adecting
anecdote, related by Kotzebuein his Journey toParis. A young
lady used to play upon the harpsichord, while her lover accom-
panied her on the harp. The young man died, and the harp
hadremained in her room. Alter the 6rst excess of her despair,
she sank into the deepest melancholy, and some time elapsed
before she could again sit down to her instrument. At last she
.did so-gave some touches, and, hark! the harp, tuned alike,
resounded in echo. The poor glrl was at iirst seized with a se-
cret shudderlng, but soon felt a kind of soothing melancholy.
She became firmly persuaded that the spirit of her lover was
softly sweeping the strings of the instrument. The harpsichord,
from this moment, constituted her only pleasure, as it afforded
to her mind the certainty that her lover was still hovering about
her. One of those unfeeling men, who want to know and clear
VOL. I- P
170 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ly told by learned, intelligent, and sober men, phy-
sicians, professors in universities, and others, 'all
of them persons of unimpeaohable veracity, having
no conceivable motive for falsehood, honestly re-
lating what fell under their own observation, or
that of other persons equally credible, boldly pub-
lishing the results to the world at large, anxiously
chnllenging criticism, and loudly calling uponphy-
sicians and philosophers to investigate the alleged
facts. Let my readers, however, remembelzthat I
do not insist upon their conceding nihlind and imr
plicit belief to any one of these stories : I only re-
quest them to
pauseand inquire before they deter-
mine to reject them; and to exercise: a little of that
academical scepticism, which teaches us to suspend
our
judgment until we have obteihedi rational con-
viction.
up every thing, once entered her apartment ; the girl instantly
begged him to be qpiet, for at that very moment the dear harp
spoke most distinctly. Being informed of theamiahle illusion.
which overcame her neason, he 1aughed,.and, with: greatdisplay
of learning, proved to hen by experimental physics, that all this.
was very natural. From. that instant., the young lady grew
melancholy, drooped, and soolxlitel? died!-~
-
--
( m )
CHAPTER V11.
THEM: are some persons whose minds are. so
sceptically constituted, as to find great diilieulty in
bringing themselves to believe any uncommon. fact,
or series of faets, however ineontrovertibly esta-
blished by evidence; unless they are placed in asi-
tuatieu, at the BBIDQ time, to give a rationaland
apparently satisfactory explanation of the-principles
upon which they depend. Such persons-generally
continue sceptics both in regard to religion and to
philosophy. But the explanationrequired by these
individuals is, hy no means essential to our convicé
tion of the reality of any phenlemenon, nor, inmsny
cases, can it be easily aforded. Facts are every
day believed upon observation, or upon testimony,
which we should be exceedingly puzzled, if called
upon to account for. In the Introduction to this
work, I have shewn that therefare facts which had
been observed during thousands of year; before
even their existence was generally- admittede A
eommon proverb tells ns that "
there is meiiag
new but what has been fergotteni' ,
The phenomena of aleofi a
172 ANIMAL Mssnrrlsm.
nature so very extraordinary, that it is exceedingly
difiicult to account for them upon any rational and
satisfactoryhypothesis. The diiiiculty, too, has been
greatly increased by the very irrational manner in
which the nbject has been hitherto treated by many
learned men, and especially by professional physi-
cians. With such, for a
long period, the great and
sole objectappears to have been to get rid ofthefacts
altogether, by argument, by ridicule, by contempt,
or
by any means
by which they might be brought
into general discredit. They determined not even
to investigate, 'far less to admit the reality of that
which, had they taken' the trouble' to make the
slightest inquiry, they would have found completely
demonstrated. The advocates of the doctrine, on
the other hand, were
compelled, by this obstinate
hostility and incredulity of the learned, to multiply
their experiments and observations, until they had
obtained such a
body of evidence as should consti-
tute an insubvertible basis for their system. This,
at least, they must be admitted to have accom-
plished inthe most satisfactory manner; for it is
quite impossible for any candid inquirer to study
even one half of what has been written upon this
subject, without having complete conviction forced
upon his mind. Indeed, scepticism, in this matter,
is now confined entirely to those persons who ob-
stinately refuse to inquire.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 173
These circumstances, however, have not been
very favourable for the philo ophical investigation
of the subject. The individuals who, at first, ad-
dicted themselves to Magnetism, were better quali-
fied for the accurate observation of facts, than for
the construction of atisfactory theories. The op-
ponents, too, certainly demanded too much, when
they insisted upon such explanations. Mathemati-
cal reaeoning is wholly inapplicable to the pheno-
mena in question, nor could they be explained upon
the ordinary principles of Physics or Physiology.
There were serious dimculties in the way of the,
investigation of these facts, the nature of which I
cannot better express than in the language of Dr
Roget. _
"
In the investigation of the powers which are
concerned in the phenomena of living beings,"
says that distinguished philosopher,
"
we meet with
dimculties incomparably greater than those that at-
tend tbe discovery of the physical forces by which
the parts of inanimate nature are actuated. The
elements of the inorganic world are few and simple;
the combinations they present are, in most cases,
easily unravelled; and the powers which actuate
their motions, or effect their union and their
changes, are reducible to a small number of general
laws, of which the results may, for the most part,
be anticipated and exactly determined by calcula-
174 urumr. awennrlsx.
tion. What law, tor instance, can be more
simple
than that of gravitation, to which all material bo-
dies, whatever be their size, figure, or other pro-
perties, and whatever be their relative positions,
are
equally subjected; and of which the observa-
tions of modem astronomers have rendered it pro-
bable that the influence 'extends to the remotest
regions of space P The most unde/viating regularity
is exhibited in the motions of those stupendous
planetary masses, which continually roll onwards
in the orbits prescribed by this all-pervading force.
Even the slighter perturbations occasioned by their
mutual influence, are but direct results of the same
general law, and are
necessarily restrained within
certain limits, which they never can exceed, and
by which the permanence of the system is effec-
tually secured. All the terrestrial changes de-
pendent on these motions partake of the same con-
stancy. The same
periodic order governs the suc-
cession of day and night, the rise and fall of the
tides, and the return of the seasons ;' which order,
as far as we can
perceive, is incapable of being dis-
turbed hy any existing cause.
Equally definite are
the operations of the forces of cohesion, of elasti-
city, or of whatever other mechanical powers of
attraction or
repulsion there may he, which actuate,
at insensible distances, the particles of matter."
After observing that all these phenomena, to~
ANIMAL Macusrxsm. 175
gether with those of Chemistry, of Light, of Heat,
of Electricity, and of Magnetism,
"
have been, in
like manner, reduced to laws of suiiicient simpli-
city to admit of the application of mathematical
ree,sening;" and that, "
to whatever department
of physical science our researches have extended,
we
every where meet with the same regularity in
the phenomena, the same simplicity in the laws,
and the same uniformityin the results ;" the author
proceeds:
~
_
"
Far diferent is the aspect of living Nature.
The spectacle here "offered to our view is every
where characterised by boundless variety, by in-
scrntable complexity, by perpetual mutation. Our
attention is solicited to a vast multiplicity of objects,
curious and intricate in their mechanism, exhibit-
ing peculiar movements, actuated by new and un-
known powers, and with high and refined
endowments. In place of the simple combinations
of elements, and the simple properties of mineral
bodies, all organic structures, even the most mi-
nute, present exceedingly complicated arrange-
ments, and a prolonged succession of phenomena,
so varied and so anomalous, as to be utterly irre-
ducible to the known laws which govern inanimate
matter."-Dr Roget's Bridgewater Theatiee, vol. i.
pp. 7, 8zc.
"
If we are to reason at all, we can reason only
176 ANIMAL
MQGNETISM.
upon the principle, that for every effect there must
exist a
corresponding cause; or, in other words,
that there is an established and invariable order of
sequence among the changes which take place in
the universe. But though it be granted that all
the phenomena we behold are the effects of certain
causes, it might still be alleged, as a bar to all fur-
ther reasoning, that these causes are not only utter-
ly unknown to us, but that their discovery is wholly
beyond the reach of our faculties. The argument
is specious only because it is true in one
particular
sense, and that a very limited one. Those who
urge it do not seem to be aware that its general
application, in that very same sense, would shake
the foundation of every kind of knowledge, even
that which we regard as built upon the most solid
basis. Of causation, it is agreed that we know
nothing; all that we do know is, that one event
succeeds another with undeviating constancy," &c.
This is ound philosophy, and the most zealous
Animal Magnetist could not object to its applica-
tion to hi doctrine. The phenomena of the living
organism are unquestionably much more diliicult
of explanation than those of inorganic matter; but
this diiliculty ought not to deter us from collecting
and endeavouring to classify the facts. And, after
all, what do we know of the common
/Magnetism,
of Electricity, of Galvanism, &c. but the facts
ANIMAL Maauvrlsm. 177
which have been elicited by the labours of experi-
mental inquirers, and the laws which have been
deduced from their generalization? And would it
be considered a suflicient reason for the absolute
rejection of any of these facts, or of a whole class
of facts, that we are still ignorant of the principle
upon which they depend, and perhaps may never
become acquainted with it ? If we
carry the un-
disputable phenomena of Animal Magnetism along
with us, and regard them as calculated to open up
many new and interesting views in the physiology
of man, it is quite possible that, in proportion as
we advance in our
knowledge of the subject-in
proportion as we succeed in ascertaining the con-
ditions of their reality-we may ultimately become
enabled to give as
satisfactory an explanation of
the principles upon which these phenomena depend,
as in the case of any other science, or as is compa-
tible with the limited stretch of our faculties. But
toidiscourage all investigation is not the best way
to extend our
knowledge of Nature.
In order, in some measure, however, to gratify
those who require some theoretical explanation of
all natural phenomena, and to shew to all that the
professors of Animal Magnetism are not entirely
destitute of rational principles and scientific analo-
gies in confirmation of the doctrines they maintain,
I shall briefly direct the attention of the reader to
1178 nunuz. ummmrsm.
the following view of the subject.
Wllether it slnllbe 'thought satisiictory or not, I
ig leave te remind him, that the reality of the
fasts does, .in no degree, depend upon the accuracy
of the explanation.
' '
_
=I formerly observed, that it is through the me-
dium of. the nerves that the vital prhnciple appears
to be acted upon--that they arethe source of the
eniilal aifeetalaility-+the connecting link between
mutter and mind; and that many eminent physi-
em had physiologists had found themselves com-
pelled to asume the fact of the permeability of the
nerve|,i|nd also the existence of a nervous fluid,
without' any actual demonstration of their reality.
Indeed, this supposition of a nervous secretion and
circulation, with its utmost difiicnlties, seems much
more rational and satisfactory than any other hy-
pothesis with regard to their nature and action.
It has been maintained, upon speculative grounds,
by the ablest physiologists, and enables us to ac-
count for many phenomena which appear to be
otherwise inexplicable. But this hypothesis has
been almost reduced to a
certainty, in recent times,
by theinteresting researches of Reil, Autenrieth,
Humboldt, Burdach, Bichat, Beclard, and others,
who have gone far towards the actual demonstra-
tion of the fact of the secretion and circulation of
a nervous fluid, and even rendered it extremely
ANIMAL MAGNm'|aM. 179
probable that thiscirculating fluid is capable of an
external expansion, which takes place with such
energy as to form an
atmosphere, or sphere of ac-
tivity, similar to that of electrical bodies. If it be
said that this is a mere
hypothesis, yet it must he
admitted that it is an
hypothesis, not only very
probable in itself, but calculated to enable as to give
a scientific explanation of many facts which cannot
be accounted for upon any other principle* More-
over, this bypotbesk may now be considered ms
having been almost completely demonstrated by
the researches of the celebrated French anatomist
and physiologist, Béclard. This _skilful experi-
mentalist having cnt a nerve of considerable size,
adjoining a muscle, which induced paralysis in this
part, perceived the contractile action reappear,
when he approached the two ends of the nerve at
the distance of three lines. It is quite evident
'
I have somewhere read of late, although I cannot, at this
moment, refer to my authority, that s recent experlmentslist
hadsucceededininjecting thenerveswithsomelluid. Ihelieve
there are other physiologlsts who maintain, that the nerves are
merely the conductors of some fluid fiom the brsln and spinal
chord to the diffexwent parts of the body. This hypothesis
would equally suliice [br ourcxplanatian. -
Dr Roget (Bridgewater Tustin, vol. ii. p. 861), observes that
"
the velocity with which the nerves subservlsnt to liili
transmit the impressions they receive at one extremity, allg
their whole course, exceeds all measurement, and can be esm-
pared only to that of electricity passing along s conducting
wire."
180 ANIMAL MAGN1-:r1sM.
here, that an
imponderable substance, that is to say,
a fluid of some kind, traversed the interval of se-
paration, in order to restore the muscular action.
Another experiment of the same
philosopher not
only proves the existence of this fluid, but seems
also to demonstrate its striking analogy to electri-
city. Having frequently placed a
magnetic needle
in connexion with the extremity of a divided nerve,
he constantly perceived the deviation of the pole of
the needle, caused by the reciprocal attraction of
the two opposite Huids.*. To all this may be added
the experiments which have been made with re-
gard to the action of Galvanism upon dead men
and other animals; as also the galvanic pheno-
mena exhibited by a
pile composed of alternate
layers of brain and muscle.
Farther: It appears, says Dr Ure, that the gal-
"
I do not know in what work of Beclard's these experiments
are detailed, but I 'find them alluded to in a memoir transmitted
to the Royal Academy of Berlin, by Dr Leonard, entitled :_-
Magnctirme, .ron hiatoira, sa theorie, &c. published at Paris in 1834.
Some experiments are also said to have been made, with a view
to demonstrate, more conclusively, the intimate analogy that
exists between the nervous fluid and electricity; but it is sum-
cient for me to have drawn att tion to the subject, and I shall,
therefore, leave the fhrther prosecution of it to more
competent
inquirers. I may, however, refer the reader to Ha1ler's Ele-
Mm qf Plwmagy, to Mr Abemechya Physiological uw",
and to Dr W. Phl1ip's work on The Vital Functions. The expe-
riments of thelast mentioned author are particularly curious
and interesting.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 181
vauic energy is capable of supplying the place of
the nervous influence, so that, while under it, the
stomach, otherwise inactive, digests food as usual;
Certain experiments clearly shew a remarkable
analogy between galvanic electricity and nervous
influence, as the one
may serve as a substitute for
the other. When the lungs are
deprived of ner-
vous iniluence, by which their function is impeded,
and even destroyed, when digestion his interrupted,
by withdrawing this influence from the stomach,
these two vital functions are renewed by exposing
them to the influence of the galvanic trough!
`
If we are
justified, then, in assuming the exist-
ence of this nervous fluid-whether secreted or
merely conducted by the nerves-of its analogy to
'
I understand that Professor Keil of Jena, has recentlymsde
some very interesting experiments tending to demonstrate the
susceptibility of the nervous system for the magnetic influence,
and the etlicacy of the magnet ln the cure of certain diseases.
The result of these experiments, I believe, was communicated
by the Professor to a
meeting of the Royal Society of London,
about the beginning of the year 1833.
Some of the late German Journals give an account of asingu-
lsr machine, recently invented by A person of the name of Por-
tius, at Leipsic, called the Pagchometer. The object of this ma-
chine is to indicate the temperament and character of each ln-
divldual. At first, we should be apt to look upon such a ma-
chine as a mere toy, but it is seriously spoken of; and described
as exhibiting great accuracy. It is constructed upon the prin-
ciple of a supposed aillnity existing between the nervous fluid- of
the animal body, and the electric and magnetic fluids.
182 nnmu. nnemrrrsn.
the other known, active, and imponderable fluids,
and J its capability of external expansion, as in the
canof electricity; it does notappear to be a very
violent or unwanantablne proceeding to extend the
hypothesis si little hrtlher, md to» presume that it is
alsoveqnllleof beingtraasmittad or directed out-
wuds,-. either involuntarily, or
by the volition of
one individual, with such. energy as In produce cer-
tain reel:and perceptible effects upon the organismof
another, in. e.. manner analogous to what is known
to aneurin the ease of the Torpedo, the Gymnotus
eledricur, &c. Indeed, the factof the actual trans-
ference of nervous or vital power, in certain cir-
clmlilllces, from one-individual to another, is now
admittedi by some of our-own most eminent medi-
calwriters, amongst others by the leamed Dr Cop-
land. In his DidzonaryqfI-Waetieal Medicine, this
experienced physician observes, that "
this fact"-
tllat oiithetrausference of vital power-" however
explained, has been long remarked, and is weli-
known to every unprejudiced observer; but," he
adds, þÿ' ¬
it has been most uaaocountably overlooked
in medicine." The learned Doctor gives several
instances which, along with others recorded in
history, leave no doubt of 'the fact. Now, admit#
ting that such a transference takes place-where,
I would ask, does this vital power and how
is the transference in question effected?"
'
Ps it not
Anuuu. uaeunrrsm. 183
pretty evident that this power resides in the nerves,
and that it is transmitted from: one to
another, in certain circumstances, in consequence-
of some connexion between their nervous-
systems,
and in a manner analogous. to heat or
electricity?
And do not these circumstances give a
powerful
confirmation to the views of the Animal Magna-'
tists?
Physical science presents us with many' facts
analogous to the transference in- question. Take;-
for example, the case of the transmission of heati'
"
If two solid bodies"-I quote from Dr Lardner
-" if two solid bodies, having different
tures, be placed in close contact, it will be observed
that the hotter body will gradually fall- in tempe-
rature, and the colder gradually rise, until' the-
temperatures become equal. This process is not,
like radiation, sudden, but very gradual-t; the colder'
body receives increased temperature slowly; and*
the hotter loses it- at the same rata Diilerent bo-
dies, however, exhibit a different iiicilityain this
gradual transmission of heat by contact. In some
it passes more rapidly from the hotter to the colder;
and in others, the equalization of temperature is
not produced until after the lapseof a considerable
time." Similar phenomena are exhibited in Mhg~
netism, E1ectricity,_Galvanism, &c.; and there ap-
pear no
good grounds for holding it to be impos-
184 Amman Mmumlsn.
sible, or
improbable, that nervous energy may, in
certain circumstances capable of being ascertained,
be transmitted from one animal body to another,
in some
analogous manner; on the contrary, ex--
perience, without the aid of theory, seems to afford
usqabundant proofs that such a transmission does
occasionally take place.
`
.
The foregoing theory, if acknowledged to be
founded upon just data, might enable us to account
for many of the more
ordinary phenomena of Ani-
mal Magnetism, and particularly for the sanative
etiicacy of the processes; considering this eiiicacy
to depend upon a transference of vital energy, and
a.
consequent restoration of the vital functions,
through the medium of the nervous system, to a
more healthy state of action. There appears to be
nothing unreasonable in supposing that health may
be communicated in the same manner as disease;
and, as in all morbid states of the system, the
nerves are
always more or less aifected, if not the
actual seat of the malady, it does not seem irra_
tional to conclude, that their tone may he restored
by the action of a
healthy organism, and fresh vi-
gour thus diffused throughout the whole frame.
Some medical writers, I believe, have spoken of a
contagion of health, as well as of disease.*
'
It is inconceivable that any persons acquainted with the
most ordinary phenomena of physical science, and especially
ANIMAL MAGNa'r1sM. 185
It is but fair to observe, however, that"there is
a
variety of other magnetic phenomena-and these
with the changes produced upon inanimate bodies by apparent-
ly trivial and inadequate causes, should obstinately deny the
possibility of the facts of Animal Magnetism-the effects, per~
hsps, of analogous causes upon the living organism -without
condescending to make any inquiry into their reality. To all
such I would beg leave to submit the following observations.
The superposition of two different metals produces Galvanism.
The friction of a plate of glass generates Electricity. M. Haiiy
discovered that the simple pressure of the hand upon a tourma-
line rendered it electrical. The point of contact confers all its
force upon attraction. Iron attaches itself to the magnet by
the point of contact, and becomes magnetic itself by friction :
it follows the direction of the magnet at a distance, even across
intermediate solid bodies. The touch developes caloric. Fric-
tion causes the wheels of a to take fire. Phosphorus
emits light in consequence of friction. Chemistry teaches us
that friction causes
surprising detonations. The union of hy~
drogen with an elementary substance which has been called
cyvmogen, produces the hydrocyanic avid. This acid, more com-
monly called the Prussia, possesses the most singular physical
properties. It freezes at l5°, and begins to boil at 26°._an in-
terval so short, that, if a
single drop be exposed to the air, the
evaporation of a part produces a suliicient degree of cold to
freeze the rest. In its pure state, this acid is the most deadly
poison. The smallest drop, placed on the tongue of an animal,
kills lt like a bullet or a thunderbolt. The same substance
which, when combined with hydrogen, produces this frightful
poison, when united with oxygen produces fiilminating pow-
ders.
Iron filings, immersed in a liquid as cold as itself; instantly
produce a violent ebullition, and vapours susceptible of inflam-
mation. Nay, this metal, solid as it is, is afterwards destroyed,
in some measure, by the above fluid, and unites with it in such
a manner, as to pass with it through the closest filter. Another
voL. 1.
Q
186 ANIMAL MAGNETLSM.
by much the most extraordinary-as will be seen
in thi! sequel, Of which this theory does not imme-
limpid liquor suddenly dhsolves this union, and causes the iron
to fall to the bottom of the vessel in the form of an impalpsblc
powdw
M- Diibereiner, by projecting s mixture of oxygen and hy-
drogen on a small mass of spongy platinum, observed that this
simple contact combines the two gases, and produces such a de-
gree of heat as to reddan the metal-.-thus producing a red heat
by means of a blast of cold air. Oxygenated water, when thrown
upon very oxidlble metals (such ss arsenic), causes them to
burn and emit light-.-thus presenting the curious spectacle of
combustion produced by water: a single drop is suilicient to
produce the effect. On the contrary, when thrown upon gold,
silver, or platinum, the oxygen suddenly becomes free, with an
explosion, and restores the water to its tionner state, without
producing any alteration on the metal. The oxides ofthe some
metals produce this effect with still greater force.
Baron Cuvier observes, that "
all those innumerable substan-
ces whose action maintains the admirable and complicated spec-
tacle of animated nature, those substances which, independent-
ly of the body which has produced them, are still so
astonishing
in the variety of their effects, whether as delicious aliments or
formidable poisons-...whether as objects or instruments of such
numerous and such various arts,...-only differ from each other,
at least in, the eye of chemistry, in the proportion of three or four
elements. A little more or a little less of hydrogen or of car-
bon,is all the distinction we at present see between that stfych.
nia which kills like thunder, and those savoury and wholesome
fruits which constitute the delicacies of our tables; and, what
is still more astonishing, it is all that distinguishes that blood
which conveys nutrition and lite to all parts, those nerves which
connect us with external nature, those muscles which give us
dominion over her. These are effects greater than their appa-
rent causes; which gives us sufficient reason for believing that
they have causes which are still concealed from our view."
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 187
diately appear calculated to afford any satisfactory
or
complete explanation. With regard to these,
therefore, it will be best, perhaps, for us, in the
mean time, to avoid all premature theory, and to
content ourselves with collecting, arranging, and
classifying the facts, until we shall, at length, be-
come enabled to obtain some insight into the prin-
ciple upon which they depend. For this reason, I
shall proceed, in the next, and some of the subse-
quent chapters, to present the reader with an bis-
torical deduction of the magnetic doctrines and
practice, and shall afterwards endeavour to make
him acquainted with all the more remarkable phe-
nomena which have been elicited by experimentf
By simple contact, cotton and woollen articles are infected,
and carry coutagion from one hemisphere to another, &c.
Now, with what etiieacy may not the same, or, at least, ana-
logous causes, act upon living bodies, on irritable and sensible
parts, on the nerves, the brain, the phrenic plexus, &.c. ? At
all events, why so readily admit the reality of the phenomena
in the one class ofcases, and so
obstinately deny it in the other P
Are not both equally susceptible of proof? Do they not equally
depend upon evidence? Are not their causes equally obscure?
(188)
CHAPTER vm.
IN all ages, and amongst all nations, phenomena
similar to those which are now known to be pro-
duced by Animal Magnetism have been occasion-
ally observed. The ancient writers, indeed, are
full of allusions which, when carefiilly examined.
leave no room to doubt, that some knowledge of
these processes, probably, and certainly of these
susceptibilities, obtained in early times. Amongst
other inexplicable phenomena, how are we other-
wise to explain, in any thing like a
satisfactory man-
ner, the ancient oracles, the prophetic dreams, and
the cures
produced by the touch of the priests in
the Temples of Health, which popular belief im-
mediately ascribed to the miraculous iniiuence of
some beneiicent presiding deity? At a subsequent
period, indeed, the reality of these facts was either
entirely denied, or the singular effects in question
were attributed to imagination and delusion, or to
the impositions of the priesthood, aided by the ig-
norance and credulity of the people. Other causes,
into which I am
unwilling to enter at present,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM- 189
tended to strengthen and perpetuate the scepticism
entertained upon this subject. I may observe, how-
ever, that to deny a'fact is not to refute it, nor can
it be invalidated by ascribing it to an erroneous or
inadequate cause.
Many of those miracles, as
they
were called, were
probably just as real those
said to have been performed at the tomb of the
Abbé Paris, and in other instances, and may
be considered as
depending upon the principles
I formerly explained. And since the discove-
ries which have been made during the practice
of Animal Magnetism, it. has appeared exceed-
ingly probable to many learned inquirers, that
these phenomena were
not the offspring of fraud
and deception, but that they depended upon a
knowledge of certain principles, which was after-
wards obscured or lost amidst the decline of those
institutions by which it had been cherished.
Yet this knowledge does not appear to have been
totally lost. There occur, in the works of Greek
and Roman authors, occasional expressions, which
cannot well be explained, unless upon the sup-
position, that some
memory, at least, of these very
ancient practices had been preserved by tradition.
In the following verses of Solon, we have, so
far as I have been able to discover, the earliest
and most
directvtestimony to the practice of mani-
pulation, as a sanative process, to be found in an-
190 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
tiquity. It seems
surprising that they should have
hitherto escaped the notice of all the writers upon
Animal Magnetism, many of whom have exercised
great diligence in collecting the various allusion
to this process which occur
among the ancients.
Il»AAsf.vu 3' E2 »iNQn; idiimg piya yxiyvlfas Z)-yo;
Ksviz 421' 17% Aerur' iisrus tpaieuauuz doug.
T51 ai :ut-147; Yllafllfl xvxffalsv si¢'yasAiau; 'rs
-
'Axluipsssg xugofr, lui/as 'rihwf 1375.
So1.oN, apud Stobezum. *
The following remarkable 'expressions occur in
the Amplzitryo of Plautus: si ego illum trac-
tim tangam, ut dar/niat. These expressions are
evidently used euphemistically or
ironically, for
"
What if I should knock him down ;" but we can
hardly fail to perceive that there is here an obvious
allusion to some method of setting persons asleep
by a
particular process of manipulation; and, ac-
cordingly they are' so
explained, in a note upon this
passage, in Tauhmann's edition of Plautus.-f
'
Stanley, in his History of Philosophy (1666), has given
us a very competent translation of these verses:
"
The smallest hurts sometimes increase md nge
More thansll srt ofphysiccsn sssnsgs;
Sometimes the fury of the worst disesse
The hand, by gentle stroking, will sppesse."
-|- The words of Taubmenn are these :-Tractim tangam, ut
dormiat. Perbelle videtnr ludere, trslstiose a nutrieulis ducts,
ANIMAL msculrrlsu. 191
In the following verses of Martial, the process
in question is not merely alluded to, but pretty
fully described. They occur in B. iii. Ep. 82, and
appear to refer to some refinement of luxury.
Percurrit agili corpus arte tractatrix,
_Manumque doctam sparglt omnibus membria'
Sprengel, in his learned History ff Medicine, in-
forms us that, in chronic adections, Asclepiades of
Bithyuia, who acquired so much reputation, as a
physician, at Rome, recommended frictions, to be
continued until the patient fell asleep, which sleep
he considered as
very salutary. Tacitus and Sue-
tonius have preserved an account of two remarkable_
magnetic cures, which were
performed by the Em~
peror Vespasian, at Alexandria.-f
Among the ancient Oriental nations, the cure of
diseases by the application of the hands appears to
have been well known. The Chaldean priests are
said to have practised this mode of treatment; as
que pusienes palms leniuscule demuleent ut dormiaut. Taub-
mann's Commentary on Plautus was published in 1612.
'
There is also a
passage in Seneca's Epistles, in which this
process seems to be alluded to, although the meaning, perhaps,
may be considered ambiguous. Quidni ego feliciorem putem
Mucium, qui sic tractsvit igaen, quasi illum manum traetatorl
pnestitisset.-Ep. 66. The Latin words Tfaotator and Traetatris
seem to imply the knowledge and practice of some art of this
kind among the Romans.
1' Tacit. Hill. iv. 81.-Suet. in Papa. vii. Sects. 5, 6.
192 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
also the Indian Bramins, and the Parsi. Accord-
ing to the accounts of the Jesuit Missionaries for
the year 1763, the practice 'of curing diseases by
the imposition of the hands, has prevailed in China
for many ages. The theory of Animal Magnetism,
indeed, appears to have been known in the East
long before it was ever thought of in Europe. 'It
is said that there are individuals in Asia who make
the practice of that theory their profession, and
that these persons are
persecuted by the Mollahs.
When we reflect that, after the ifall of the Ro-
man
Empire, literature, science, the arts, medicine,
&c. took refuge in the monasteries, might we not
_be led to suspect that many of the secrets and prac-
tices of the ancient Egyptians, the Greeks, and the
Romans, which had always been confined to the
temples, may have passed into the monasteries
which succeeded them, and that in them the mag-
netic medicine had been mysteriously preserved?
Indeed, We have pretty good evidence that thi was
actually the case. Thiers tells us that Protogenes,
priest of Edessa, cured the children, his pupils, by
prayer and the touch qfhis hand; and that the monk,
John, had received from God the gift of curing the
gout, and of replacing dislocated limbs. The
monk, Benjamin, cured all kinds of diseases by the
touch qfhis hand, and anointing with holy oil, &c.*
'
Tmtxs; Trait! de Super-st. L vi. ch. 4.
ANIMAL Maeumrnsm. 198
Petrus Thyraeus, the Jesuit, in his work entitled
Demoniaci, hocest de Obsessis, &c. refers to a num-
ber of cures
performed by ecclesiastics, by the im-
position of the hands, and by other means analogous
to the magnetic.
If we admit, to any extent, the eliicacy of these
manipulations, and give any degree of credit to
what has been alleged in regard to the eliicacy of
human volition, we shall have the ready means at
hand of explaining, in a
pretty satisfactory man-
ner, many of those extraordinary cases which have
served as a
foundation for the popular belief in
witchcraft, sorcery, possession, &,c.-a belief which
has led to many absurdities in speculation, and oc-
casioned many enormities in practice. Some learn-
ed persons, indeed, have expressed an utter scepti-
cism with respect to the foundation of the belief in
question, considering it as
entirely delusive; some
have treated the whole subject as a matter for ri~
dicule; while others have attempted to account for
such of the phenomena as
they conceived to he un-
deniable, upon principles which _are altogether in-
adequate and unsatisfactory. If, however, upon a
more minute and unprejudiced investigation of
the powers and processes of Nature, and a more
thorough examination of the physiological and psy-
chological principles upon which they depend, it
vol.. 1. a
194 ANIMAL uacnrrxsm.
should appear that the phenomena, which have oc-
casioned so much ridicule, doubt, and discussion,
may be justly ascribed, partly to sympathetic sus-
ceptibility, to certain reciprocal influences of orga-
nic and inorganic bodies upon each other ; partly
to'a certain disposition, or
idiosyncrasy, of the ner-
vous
system, and probably, in some instances, to a
diseased state of the animal organism ;--would not
this-tend to in a
great measure, the clouds
which have hitherto enveloped this mysterioussub-
ject, and assist us in evolving principles,whicb;by
controlling alike the rash -incrcdulity of=
and the irrational errors of
~
superstition, could _not
fail to conduct. us to a more
,profound knowledge,
and# more accurate appreciation of "these apparent-
ly anomalous occurrences, and' thus pnve. highly
interesting and advantageous to
the-study of the
philosophy of man ?
Some curious- facts respecting the great coali-
deucewhich the-'North American Indians placein
the professors off the magical art,= will be found in
Hearne's-Journey. A
Suchfis-said -to be-the -iniuence
of these professors, that=they1appea1-ifto be capable
of curing -the1mcst serious complaints -without se-
sorting to any -physical"maans,- and that the>feas=of
incurring their maliglrity plunges individuals into
diseases' which ohen terminate fatally. -
One-' of
these Indians, Matonabbi by name, conceiving that
A-HIUAB ILBUHIIH
Hqu-mwum pounmmnf mpanszuml puma,
roquestanl lun to hll, by mngw,/n nnnagninst
W|mllh¢0ll|¢l'@lld~ a dmillybnhed. °To.¢Hrg\
lum Helrae, vmbont dnndmg my hd nema-
qumeel,drew.s:|nalignsn,|;ponap|»aaofgnpar,
anf1g\waathoHnton;ibi,adv\ungh\mlom;ke It
an public al
ponible. Mntonnblns many, who
aqoyod porhcliy good hulth, :candy head of
the ppcr, when he beams mnlmoboly refund
f¢od,&'oopd,m|id|o|lmtbeoou||eo£a
Hlawe hue rveryumplc c||o,,m whchwo
f|otpfoduoed,p|Im:|ly,afuot|ol|ly,ta»&enl!u-
enooofthanmngmian Butovmhoaogntlom
K1'0'|WllIUlfF'$lH8'hl\lh0i 0ll
artcllarollsndmoltnmltinblenctnuupontha
nervoulayntsmoftlmminnehnl Totluspower
lmlaal-tha llllllienilthe
sequel, mauyleamelpanouwuqatonehme,
d||po|sitoattnbn\eslltbeplu|m||s|sofAmmnl
Mqldall- Butthdomavutlnllbcrofeusl,
anwil1»pp|snh»res!t|r,vhi¢bdonot|dmto£bo-
unguplnmodupnntlmhypothi.
Tbefcllom||gcuo,m»o1|»of|h¢u¢un|,be|r¢
ntnhngrasombhnoetothoelfoctnoflinglatnm.
Ituqwhdhomtbenlrupprraponofatld
wlnol:t0okpheonttl|o'l'll\ntunAlin|,on¢l|»
4¢hofApnIl888,bafm°eMrJusuooBm'mugh.
. 195
om liikdiisllty.in Jllcriling the wholamf-
.
_
A
. .
"_
a
I I I
196 .4N1MA1. MAGNETISM.
Elizabeth Bryant, aged 50, with her two daugh-
ter , Elizabeth, aged'22, and Jane, aged 15, were
charged with maliciously assaulting an old woman,
Ann Burgess, areputed witch, under the following
circumstances :-It appears that Elizabeth Bryant,
the younger, had been alliicted with fits, which
were
supposed to have been occasioned by the in-
fluence of some malignant spirit; and a noted sor-
cerer in the neighbourhood was resorted to by the
mother for advice. The conjuror, in order to break
the charm, 'gave-an amulet to secure the wearer
against witchcraft, and prescribed some medicines
to be taken internally, and also a
paper ofherbs to
be burned with certain ceremonies and incantations.
But this was not all; for the prisoners were ac-
tually possessed with the horrible notion, that, in_
order to dissipate the charm effectually, it was ne-
cessaryuto draw blood from the witch. Accord-
ingly, having fixed upon the prosecutrix as the in~
dividual by whom the young woman was bewitched,
they took an
opportunity of making an assault up-
on her, and of drawing blood from her arm`by la-
cerating it dreadfully with a large nail. The pri-
soners were convicted, and had entence of im-
prisonment.
'
a
' '
This trial is curious, as
alfording an in tance of
the rude belief in witchcraft, still prevalent, it
would appear, in some remote parts of the country.
Auxusr. Mscnarism. 197
But there are some farther circumstances men-
tioned in the newspaper report of the case, which
are more to our
purpose.
The fits with which the young woman was af-
Hicted are not very circumstautially or technically
described. It is said that,
"
when worked upon,
she would dance and sing, just as if she was dancing
and singing to a fiddle, in a
way that there was no
stopping her before she dropped down, when the
fiend left her. Whilst the fit was
upon her, she
would look wished (wild or
frightened), and point
at something, crying,
'
There she stands ! there she
stands ." One of the witnesses said that she-felt for
the girl very much, and that her state was
'
very
pitiablef
"
It likewise appeared that she had been
subject to these fits for twelve months.
But the conclusion of the report is most remark-
able. It is said that, "
as the preparations were
taken by the ignorant creatures, it could not be as-
certained what they were, whether medicinal, or
mere rubbish, as is most probable. But we are
po-
sitively assured, that, qfter the rites were all per-
formed, such was the effect upon the imagination
of the girl, who fancied herself possessed, that she
has not had a _/it since."
Had it not been for the brutal assault upon the
old woman, this case would have been a
very in-
nocent one, and would merely have added another
198 xniisin. Mxsrinrisin
iri1H5ai1c'6f'to'tlie1many already on record, of the ef-
E@acy`of' the psychical, or, as some would probably
call them, the magnetic remedies.
Philosophical medicine was a
subject mucblcul-
tivitbff by tliejlryklbiiitls' of a' former |ige;~ but
sdeihs now* much neglected biythe professioiii as
Di' Hbliefllén remarks in" his (
" ' ""
; If
étériisto have been now almosfentirely superseded
by a more empirical practice. Upolrtheisnbject
of the psyehical or magnetic reiriediss,'ji1st'alludcd
to, however, I' niust- beg permission to make a
quo-
tatioti'l'l'ollf§"worH by :ineminent foreign physician,
whose talents and experience `ei1title'his observa#
tions w'li6'ti'eat§d'witli 'gfeatattéiitibilnflid respect'
"
_
"
It is a'proof," Dr' zl6l"lIl§.Illl,* "
of piiftial
and narrow view's§'which' constitutefa' great atidkt
jdst' 1"épi'oac'h'fo medical science' in oir` days; that
'
Steiglltz's Ideen ilborpden Tkierisohcn
Maynetinnuc. Balan-
ohtet von Dr J. C. Zlermann. Hanover, 1820.
Dr* Ziermaiiu, 1 believe, was fin-'many years ln'tlie military
ssvlce of Great"Britain. The above work waawrltten in an-
swer to a publication, upon the same subject, by Dr John Stieg-
litz, Physician to the King at Hanover, which appeared there
musu. 1n»h1s'vv<srk,~nr saegnu had pretty muy admitted
the reality of the greaterpart of the phenomena of Animal Mag-
netism, anddld not even pretend to deny the eilicacy ofthe treat-
ment as a remedy in diseases-nay, he evenwerit as tore-
commend it in all dnpsrdta cases; but his book, upon thewhole,
was composed in a hostile spirit, and it was evident that be
viewed the magnetic practice with considerable prejudice and
pfur¢.san.1~ja1a»u.y.
ANIMAL Mseumxsu. 199
its professors should conceive that all diseases must
be;cured merely by medicinal preparations This-
opiuion- certainlyfbetmys has great a
deficiency of
scienceandhexperience, asisobjected to those who
relyexclnsively upon theeilieacy of the magnetic
manipulations; That there are
great masters in
medicine--in the art of curing diseases by-the ad-
ministrationof drugs--is.no prooflto the contrary;
for they .would have been. much -greater masters of
their art., had theynot themselves limited their
means. They'would have restored to healthfmany
of those= patients whom they now dismiss as in-
curable; and they-would cure many patients more
rapidly, andl more
effectually, than they now do.
Every means that can>be used as a
remedy, with-
out grester disadvantagesthau the disease itself, is
a- sanativevand an
auxiliary, and, sm-such, oughtto
be= employed by thephyeician. He ought not to be
ignorant ofthe psychical remedies, which are inti-
mately interwoven with the doctrine of-magnetism.
Bypsychical remedies, I understand not merely
theart ofcuring' mental diseases by-means of tan-
gible and ponderable drugs, -ibut the art of
operating upon the spiritual powers and capacities
of man, upon the heart and understanding, the
temper, character, modes of thinking, and preju-
dices,-which may be done in a variety of ways,
by words, gestures, signs, and actions, according
200 ANIMAL MAGNI-:'r1su.
to the mental disposition and constitution of the
individual; so as to afect the invisible vital func-
tions, or 'the basis of the phenomenal life, and thus
produce salutary changes in the diseased organiza-
tion.» How this is effectuated, indeed, we know
not ;¢ but that it is etfectuated is certain, for we have
experienced it. ~
"
The physician, therefore, must not he a mere
dealer in medicines; he must also understand how
to operate in a
salutary manner
upon his patients
without drugs, or
by employing 'them only in part;
and if he' does not know how, or
neglects to do
this, he does not possess, or does not exercise, his
art in its whole extent; and were he even the great-
est master of medicine in the world, still he is not
the more perfect physician which he might be.
All really great physicians have acknowledged this
truth, -and applied it in practice. Along with the
use of drugs, they have employed the psychical re-
medies, in the sense in which I have used the ex-
pressions. Hence, too, we can explain how physi-
cians possessed of moderate medical attainments,
but endowed with much intuitive or
acquired know-
ledge of human nature, and, on the other hand,
men of great medical skill, have, with very insig-
nificant medicines, been fortunate in operating
cures throughout their whole lives. In vain, per-
haps, would Boerhaave have exhausted the whole
naman nusumzlsu. 201
magazine of antispasmodic dr|;gg,.even to alleviate'
the convulsions with which the children in the
Haarlem ,Orphan-house were seized. A few words
from his lips were sufficient to produce a
perfect
cure
upon the spot."*
In the following chapter, I propose to bring un-
der notice some instances of individuals, who are
'
Another eminent German physician makes the following
excellent observations on the Medicina Pagohicat
"
It is a much more diiiicult matter to apply the psychics!
method of cure, than to write a prescription. Dr Kreysig says,
in his classical work on the Diseases qf the Haart :
Psychical me-
dicine cannot be comprehended in word or rules; it presup-
poses a theoretico-practical knowledge of the human heart,
which it is the imperative duty ofthe physician to acquire, and
the first rule for its application is this :-Obtain the entire con-
fidence of the patient by thy whole conduct, so that he firmly
relies upon thy power and thy will to relieve him. When the
physician has accomplished this, and knows how to preserve the
advantage by his intellectual and moral character, he consti-
tutes himself a beneficent ruler and guardian of the mind of his
patient; and this he must do, because all patients resemble
children in mind, and requireaconductor. In this first maxim
lies the whole secret of psychical medicine, whose deeply pene-
trating effects will always remain an
enigma even to ourselves.
By the application of it, there arises areal rapport between phy-
sician snd patient, or a certain spiritual connexion, which in-
spires the patient with the hope of that cure which the physi-
cian anticipates, before the reasons for this hope and anticipa-
tion are clearly perceived. This is the n Shu of our art,
which must always render it equally beneiieent and important.
See Remarks by Dr Miiller, Physician to the Court at
win-tzburg, in the zumhnyz _hir au Anawtpaztgae, edited hy
DI' NASSG- Vol. i. p. l9'I. .
wi' Amman. maunrxsm.
lmevm to have cured diseases, .and to have pro-
duced various remurkzlile' phenomena upon the
hmmm urganism,.by means
analogous to the mag-
nodv, previous- to the discovery of Animal Mag
netism, or without any knowledge of its prin-
ciples;
( 203 )`
CHAPTER IX.
ABOUT( the middle of the seventeenth century,
there appeared in England a certain gardener, of
the name of'Lev1'et, an Irish gentleman Valentine
Greatrakes, and; the notoriou Dr Streper, who
cured, or
pretended to cure, various diseases, by
stroking with the hind. Their 'proceedings excited
considerable" sexisétion' at' thetime ; but no
attempt
appears to~have been made by' men' of science, at
that period, to ascertain the precise stlte of the
facts, orto investigate the`subject!-physidldgically;
on the contrary, the effects of their treatment soon
came to be regarded by some as a
mere'piece"of
jugglery, and by others as the' consequence of a
peculiar virtue specially conferred By Nature upon
these individuals."
~
There.;-ned reelinm, mgnuwofmaeeea, omwann
Phybleo-Medioartlni lib# me Huhliurgh,-1691, a
pretty full account of Greatmkes; ma there is al.so'ex'thiit-e
treatise said to have been written and published by thltf singu-
lar individuel himself; entitled, A Bri¢fAooount of`Mr'Yalsil|tl|
Greavrizka, &.c. London, 1806.
The etiicacy of the treetmentedopted by il' et-
204 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
'
The method of Greatrakes con isted in applying
his hands to the diseased parts, and rubbing gently
downwards. This is very similar to the most com-
mon and most simple process adopted by the pre-
sent magnetizers; and it is remarkable, that the
effects produced by this treatment appear to have
borne a
striking analogy to some of the most ordi-
nary phenomena of Animal Magnetism, viz. in-
creased excitement, different kinds of excretions,
alvine evacuations, vomiting, Src. No mention,
however, is made of sleep of soinnambulism in the
accounts given of the cures
performed by Great-
rakes; whether it be that he did not produce these
phenomena, or that he did not particularly observe
them. It is remarked, indeed, by Deleuze, and by_
other writers upon Animal Magnetism, that some
nambulism rarely appears when it is not sought to
be excited, and that it may take place without be-
ing observed, as
actually occurred to some of the
early disciples of Mesmer.
Many interesting particulars relative to Great-
rakes have been related by Joseph Glanvill-an
tested by s number of the most respectable witnases (amongst
others, by that celebrated experimental philosopher, and truly
pious Christian, Mr Boyle); who also bear ample testimony to
the simplicity of his manners, the general excellence of his cha-
racter, and his reverence for the principles of religion. The
philosophic Cudworth was among his patients, and had firm fiiitln
in the etilcacy of his treatment, _
ANIMAL Mscuerrsm.
l
205
author to whom I formerly referred-to whom
they were communicated in letters from Dr G; R;
(George Rust), Lord Bishop of Derry in Ireland.
These all represent him as a
simple, unpreteuding
man, and sincerely pious. With regard to his cures,
the Bishop says,
"
I was three weeks together with
him at my Lord Conway's, and saw him, I think,
lay his hands upon a thousand persons ; and really
there is something in it more than ordinary; but I
am convinced 12 is not miraculous. I have seen pains
strangely_/ly before his hands, till he hath chased them
out ofthe body-dimness cleared, and deafness cared
by his touch ; twenty persons, at several times, in_/its
ofthefalling sickness, were in two or three minutes
brought to themselves, so as to tell where their pain
was; andthenhehathpursuedittillhehathdrawn
it out at some part: Running sores ofthe
hingisevildriedup, and hernelsbroughttoa
ration by his hand: Grievous sores qfmanymonths"
date in afew days heakd: Obstructions andstop-
pings removed ; cancerous knots in the breast dis-
solved, &c.
"
But yet," continues the Bishop,
"
I have many
reasons to persuade me that nothing of all this
is
miracubns. He pretends not to give testimony' to
any doctrine; the manner of his operation speaks
it to be natural; the cure seldom succeeds without
reiterated touches, his patients often relapse, he
206 ANIMAL Masunrxsm.
fails frequently, he can, do nothing where there is
any decay in nature, and many distempersare lwt
at__all obedientto his touch. _So_ that,;I. confess, I
refer all his virtue-to his particular temper
complexion ;_a,nd I,-take his spirits to be a kind of
elixirand universal ferment, and that he cures (as
Dr M. 'expressed it);_hyea Sanative Contagion."
_
To these particulars communicated by the Bishop
pf_Der1'y».Gl&nvill himself afterwards adds, "
that
many of those matters of fact have been sincecri-
tieellyiuspeeted and .examined by several sagaeious
and wary~ persons of the RoyalS0ciety, and other
very learned and judicious men, _whom we may
suppose-BS unlikely to bedeceived- by at contrived
iiaposture, as any others whatsoever."
.A In hort, the evidence in, support of the processes
,Md cures Of Gneatrakesrappears to me to be as sa-
tiafaetory and unobjeetionable as is possible in- the
Glwumstanees of- the case. A mere denial cannot
inxalidate the facts so
strongly attested, and the
evidence is ,far beyond the reach of sophietnyr*
'
Since the above was written, I have seen a very curious
punphlet by Henry Stubbe, Physician at Stratford-upon-Avon,
_containing An Acoountpf Mr Greatarickqmd his Miraculous Cures,
with the appropriate motto, Non idea negars debet aperlum, quid
oomprebondi non potest quod est ooeullum. This author, an eye-
Irihueel in part, confirms, from his own experiencehand that of
others, all that has been said of _Greatrakesin the texgt. The
pamphlet was addressed to the celebrated Dr Thomas Willis.
" I do not," sayahe, "
relate unto you the-reports otiinterested
ANIMAL' Mseumlsu. 207
A great- many years
»
afterwards, .there appeared
a still. more extraordinary character, in- the person
of the German oexoroist, John 'Joseph Gassner.
Gassner was-' born, in 1727, at Bratz,_u.ear Plu-
den1.,fin.Suabia, and became Catholic-ministerfat
Cldsterle, in the" bishoprio of Chnr. than
up a notion that most diseases arose from- demoni-
acal andmould be-cured by exorcism,
he commenced by curing some of'
his P%d8hi0ll0l'8
monks and frlars conceming thingsdone in monasteries and prl-
vate cells = An indxritenumber of the nobi1ity,gentry,lull Dllgy
of Warwickshire and Worcestershire, persons too understanding
to be deceived, and too honourable and worthy to deceive, will
avow, that theyhave seen him publicly cure the lame, the blind,
the deaf, the perhaps not unjustly supposed dl|D0lll8£lil'Dd,b'
pers; besides the asthma, Billing sickness, convulsion Hts, Hts of
the mother, old aches and pains." Alter relating some of his
own observation on thecaseshe had witnessed, DrStubbepro-
ceeds,
"
I considered thstthere was no manner of fraud in the
performances, that his hands had no manner ofmedicaments upon
them, ........ nor washis stroking so violent, as that much could
beettzibuted.to,the friction. I observed tbsthe used no mm-
ner of chnrms or unlswfhl words; sometimes he ejaculsted a
short prsyer before he cured any, and always, aher hehaddone,
he bade themgive'God the praise." Now, when-is the impos-
ture in all this ?
I find from the Life of Flamsteed, recently published, that
that celebrated astronomer had also been a patient of Greatrakes ;
and although he does not seem to have himself derived mud:
benefit from the treatment, yet he, too, bears ample testimony
to the reality of the cures performed upon others, and to the
general emcecy of the processes. Divines, physicians, and phi.
losophers, therefore, and those cotemporaries and eye-witnesses,
all unite in giving
'
the most unequivocal evidence in favour of
Greatnkes.
208 Amman Msesmism.
in this manner, and excited considerable sensation
in the neighbourhood. He went first to reside with
the Bishop of Constance, and afterwards, in 1774-,
to the Archbishop of Ratisbon at Elwangen, where
he performed a number of astonishing cures, espe-
cially among patients affected with spasmodic and
epileptic complaints. The power which he appears
to have possessed and exercised over the organism
of his patients would be absolutely incredible, were
it not supported by the most ample and most re-
spectable evidence. A public oflicer took regular
and copious minutes of his procedure, which were
attested by many individuals of the first rank and
the highest respectability. The phenomena which
occurred assuredly were of the most extraordinary
character; the facts, however, o far as I am aware,
never were denied, nor
attempted to be refuted, at
the time; although, at a
subsequent period, per-
sons who had not witnessed the treatment, and
could not explain these phenomena to their own
satisfaction, found it most convenient, as is usual
in such cases, to throw discredit upon the whole
procedure, and to ascribe the effects alleged to have
been produced entirely to
quaclcery and impos-
ture.*
'
A full account of Gassner and his proceedings will be found
in one of the volumes of the German Archives of Animal Mag-
netism (Arohiv fiir den Thierioohen Magnetimuua).
ANIMAL MAGNI-:'r|sM. 209
A number of other instances might be adduced
of persons who, without any knowledge of Mag-
netism, have cured diseases by the touch of the
hand, believing themselves to have been spe-
cially endowed with this virtue. Deleuze, on _the
authority of credible persons, mentions a shoe-
maker of Auxerre, of the name of Dal, who ope-
rated eflicaciously, in this manner, upon persons
affected with the toothach, sprains, &c. (He would
accept of no remuneration; and he even alleged,
that if he once took payment, he should no
longer
be able to operate with success.
In the German Archives qf Animal Magnetism
(vol. i. No. 3), there is an extract of. a letter from
Silesia, dated 22d July 1817, giving an account of
a
magical or magnetic doctor, of_the name of Rich-
ter, who had cured many sick and infirm persons
merely by means of manipulation. He was visit-
ed, it is said, by multitudes, from ministers of state
and noblemen down to the lowest beggars; and he
cured them all indiscriminately and gratuitously.
He refused every kind of recompense; and when
any thing was given, it was
immediately handed
over to the poor. The government had investigat-
ed his conduct and procedure, and granted him
protection. He is afterwards described as a man
of good substance, an
innkeeper at Royn, near
voL. r.
-
_
s
210 amiian MAGNETISM.
Liegnitz, of s
risalthyuma vigorous constitution,
and the % reputation. Some account of this man
will be found in the sébbiid volume of Kausch;
Memorabilacn der Heilkumie.
Tlicre' ivas also another naturaf inagnetizer in
Germany, in recent times, of the name of Grabe,
a groom, I believe, by profession, of vvliem I` have
read some published accounts. He appears to have
possessed great powers of curing diseases by inani-
pulation, and was
very indefatigable and disin'te¢
rested in exercising them. Although a man of
perfectly good charactei' andaetive beneiicenee, his
proceedings gave great urhbiage to the Faculty, at
whose instance he suffered continual persecution?
At the same time; he was
paltreniled by some
dical men and other respectable illdividuatls, who
bore ample dnd satisfactory-testimony to the pro-
priety of his conduct, and the emcacy of his treat-
ment.
There are, doubtless, other instances of indivi-
'
Nothing can be more absurd and disgraceful than such per.
secution. When facts are attested by evidence, it is surely more
rational to examine them philosophically, than to attempt to in.
validate them by discreditable means. False statements of
facts can never gain any permanent credit; but when such
statements are opposed, not by reason, but by ridicule and per-
secution, s considerable bias in their favour E naturally gene-
rated in the minds of all sober, and serious, and disinterested
inquirers. No doctrine, probably, was ever
thoroughly eradi-
cated by the persecution of its adherents.
ANIMAL Mseurrlsu. 211
duals who exercised similar powers; but great
pains appear to have been always taken, upon such
occasions, by seeptiesand interested persons, to ri-
dicule, disparage, and discredit their proceedings,
and to represent themselves as. mere
'impostora
If we carefully and impartially weigh the evidence,
however, by which the reality of their cures is at-
tested, we cannot fail, I think, to find a
strong con-
firmation ot' the propositions laid down' by the old
magnetic writers, relative to the sanative eficacy
that may be exerted by one individual over the or-
ganism of another.
But it was not until towards the conclusion of
the eighteenth century, that this most interesting
inquiry was systematically revived, and that, after
an ample series of experimental investigations, the
remarkable edicacy of this mode of treatment by
manipulation was
fully developed, and firmly esta-
blished by induction. For this discovery-if such
we may be permitted to call it-the world is prin-
cipally indebted to a man, whose character, mo-
tives, and actions have been painted in such oppo-
site colours, and whose merits have been so vari-
ously appreciated, that, were we to draw our infer-
ences merely from a
perusal of the writings of his
partizans and his opponents, without any serious
and impartial examination of those labours upon
which his reputation, good or bad, must ultimately
212 ANIMAL mscunrxsu.
rest, we should find it diihcult to determine, even
at the present day,_whether we ought to consider
him as one of the greatest benefactors to science;
and to the human race in general, or as one of the
most impudent and most successful scientific im~
postors who have ever contrived to practise upon
the credulity of mankind*
'
The greatest caution is requisite in perusing the statements
of the opponents of Mesmer. The partial and hostile spirit is
everywhere apparent, and sometimes degenerates into absolute
malignity. Even the most sober of them appear to be more
desirous of throwing discredit upon the system, than of boldly
meeting and iiiirly investigating the facts. I am not aware that
the slightest stigma has been attached to the moral character of
Mesmer; and there can be no doubt that he was thoroughly im-
pressed with s perfect conviction of the truth and importance of
his discovery. The same conviction accompanied him in his re-
tirement from the world, as fully appears from the accounts
given of him by individuals who visited him in his latter days.
(213)
CHAPTER X.
Fax-:Dx-mick ANTHONY MESMER, a native of
Switzerland, was born upon the 23d of May 1734.
In his youth, he came to Vienna, in very needy
circumstances, for the purpose of studying physic ;
and after having attended the lectures of Van Swie-
ten and De Haen for several years, and taken his
degree of Doctor of Medicine, he settled in that
capital as a
practising physician, and placed him-
self in a situation of independence by an advantm
geous marriage. From his youth upwards, he is
said to have manifested a decided bias towards the
uncommon and the marvellous; and his favourite
employment was to search after the almost forgot-
ten works of the old mystical writers, particularly
those which treated of astrology, which he studied
with great attention and earnestness. The conse-
quence of this was, that, upon the occasion of his
promotion, in the year 1766, he wrote and public-
ly defended an inaugural dissertation On the Irgfu-
ence qf the Planets upon the Human Body. This
treatise drew down upon him the almost universal
214- ANIMAL HAGNETISM.
ridicule of his professional brethren, who regarded
him, from that period, as a strange and eccentric
visionary; and it is probable that this first display
of his natural bias injured his character as a
phy-
sician during the whole of his subsequent career.
But the only effect of this treatment upon Mesmer
himself, was to render him still more ardent and
enthusiastic in the prosecution- of his favourite
studies.
His theory of the influence of the stars upon the
human body was founded upon the assumed exist-
ence of a certain subtile element, or essence, per-
vadiag all nature (the ether of Newton); and this
element he atfirst thought to have discovered in
electricity, until, by repeated experiments, he be-
came convinced of the insufliciency of that prin-
ciple to explain the phenomena.
I
After a
variety of fruitless efforts, he at length,
in the month of November 1778, resorted to the
magnet, to which his attention had been particu-
larly called the Jesuit Maximilian Hell, Pro-
fessor of Astronomy at Vienna*; for which rea-
'
Hell was born at Chemnitz in Hungary in the year 1720,
land entered at an early age into the order of Jesuits. From
his youth, he devoted himself to the study of astronomy and
experimental philosophy. In 1745-46, he assisted Father J.
Francois, who had the charge of the Jesuits' Observatory at
Vienna, in his observations, and took an active part in promot-
ing the establishment of an institution for experimental physics
ANIMAL Mssnsrism. 215
son, the latter subsequently claimed tbr himself
the merit of the discovery of the magnetic remedy.
Mesmer was the more readily induced to believe
that he should be enabled to accomplish his object
by means of the magnet, as
many previous writers
had not only proved its oiiieacy upon the human
body, but had ascribed to it an extensive influence
over universal nature.
He now
proceeded to apply artificial magnets
in that city. Having taught the mathematics for some years
at Clausenberg in Transylvania, he was recalled to Vienna, to
fill the situation of astronomer and keeper of the Observatory.
From 1757 to 1786, he published his yearly Ephemeridu, which
tbrm a
very interesting collection for the astronomer. Count
Baehofl} the Danish ambassador at Vienna, urged him to under-
take the task of observing the transit of Venus in Lapland;
and, for this purpose, Hell set out in the month of April 1768.
After accomplishing his purpesq he returned to Vienna in Au-
gust 1770. Of his subsequent connexion with Mesmer, some
notice has been taken in the text. Hell died at Vienna on the
14th of April 1792, after having contributed greatly to the ad-
vancement of astronomical science. His works, besides the
Ephemefidea above mentioned, are numerous. Among these
are, Tabula Solara: N. L. de la Caille, cum
suppl. rsliquar. tabu-
lar. 1768; Tabula Lunar-ea Tod. Mayer, cam ruppl. D. Cassini, de
Lalande, et mia, l763; De Tramitu Vmerie ante divan Soir die
360 Jun. 1769, Wardahwii in Finmnarchia oburvato, 1770; De
parallari Solis an observations tramitus Venerir anni 1769. 1773,
&c.
It does not appear that Hell can justly claim much of the
merit due to the discovery of Animal Magnetism. He may, no
doubt, have originally suggested the use ofthe mineral magnet,
to which he always continued to ascribe the remedial e$cacy;
whereas the experiments of Mesmer, as will be seen in the se-
quel, ultimately led to a very different result.
216 ANIMAL Macs:-:'r1sM.
(which his friend Hell prepared for him in various
forms) to diseased parts of the human body. He
afterwards brought the affected parts into perma-
nent connexion or adinity with his magnets, and
had at length the pleasure of witnessing the_ most
satisfactory results. These results of his experience
he published to the world in a Letter to a Foreign
Physician on the Magnetic Remedy. Upon this oc-4
casion, however, he got involved in a controversy
with his friend Hell; but after some
explanations,
the parties became reconciled.
As several individuals had been relieved from
the most obstinate complaints by this treatment,
some of whom had been induced to communicate
accounts of their cure to the public through the
medium of the press, and as other physicians, be-
sides Mesmer, now resorted to the same
practice,
and experienced the same
satisfactory results; the
new remedy could not fail to attract considerable
attention, although there were some who could per-
ceive no
particular advantage in it, whilst others
totally denied its eiiicacy.
The magnetic remedy, indeed, was not general-
ly sanctioned or patronized by the physicians of
Vienna; and Mesmer experienced so much calum-
ny and persecution on account of the novelty and
singularity of his practice, that he resolved to with-
draw from that capital. Accordingly, in the years
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 217
1775 and 1776, he made travels of discovery into
Bavaria and Switzerland, and performed several
remarkable cures, both in private circles, and in
the public hospitals at Bern and Zurich. Upon
this occasion, too, he is said to have paid a visit to
the famous exorcist Gassner, at Ratisbon.
Upon his return to Vienna, in order to be en-
abled to prosecute his practice with more
secrecy,
and less interruption, he established an
hospital in
his own hon e, where he received 'destitute sick
persons, whom he subjected to the magnetic treat-
ment.
'
_
4
Hitherto, Mesmer had always made use of the
magnetic rods in operating upon his patients, and
he believed that the remedial eilieacy of the treat-
mentwas the consequence of a certain virtue in-
herent in the mineral magnet. In the course of
his experiments, however, he was now led to form
a
very_ diB'erent conclusion. *
1
~
°
Exueuoszn (p. 30.) says, that Mesmer was led to the
discovery of Animal Magnetism by the following circumstance.
Being present on one occasion when blood was drawn from s
patient, he found a remarkable difference in the flowing of the
blood when he approached or retired. Having afterwards re-
peated the experiment, the same phenomenon was manifested.
Hence, he was induced to conclude, that his person was endow-
ed with this magnetic influence, which may have been stronger
in him than in other men, as different pieces of iron or steel
may possess diferent degrees of magnetic power. I do not re-
VOL. I. T
218 Arzxanxaenzrzsu.
Heohserved tbat,.in_ the case of .nervous patients,
in particular, be was enabled to produce a
variety
of phenomena of a very peculiar character, which
were not reconeileabla with the .usual efectse of
the magnet. This induced him to suppose that
his magnetic rods, perhaps, did not operate merely
by attraction, but that they, at the same time,
served as the ,conductors of a fluid emanating from
his own body. , .This conjecture. seemed to bimto
be converted into acertainty,-.when be became ea-
tisiied, by repeated: experiments, that ~he could.-pup
duce the very same effects without using the .mag-
net at all, bpmerely passing his.-hands. from the
head of the patient. .towardathe lower. extremities,
or even by makiugthese motionsat some ,distance
from the body of the patient; and that he coulda]-
so communicate to inanimate objects, by merely
rubbing themwith his band, _the power ofrpreducing
similar effects upon such nervous patients aseame
in contact with them. *
member tohave met with this- remark in any of Mesmerh own
writings, but lt isfponible I may have overlooked it.
'
The disciples of Mesmer, therefore, could be at no loss,
upon their own principles, to account for the emcacy of 1'er»
kins's Metallic Tractors, which, at one time, made so much
noise in this country. They were, in fact, nothing else than a
modification of Animal Magnetism; and being themselves mere-
ly conductors, it was of no essential consequence whether they
were made of metal, or
(as Dr Haygarth's) of any other con-
ducting substance. Yet, if we may give credit to some of the
umln. umnsnll 819
Plrtlylwayocllvythofuctnoorhmlll bypro-
Vl0l1l
uxpenmentl, tht, in lnka manner, by ro-
morers:entwrite|~|upunAuimalll'ag:|eti||n,¢'hexe|l|pem
|.il¥V'I"lK|l-§¢illI¢|»|,Ihi¢|||l¢w|||fI gf||0
humanfnmeinvuhuurqa- Buthltothlltlllgfoetwchn
nooeeuinntoenteratpnlont.
1.'l|ehlstoryofPerBni»m,hovevcrandoflta¢1egodx1!!h
uthulUDrR|ygartl| aHw||¢|mgool|naLsride|cs,U'
mymel|wuelnted,inem£xm|ti¢mofl||¢ll|!t]¢fAuimll
mgmum.
Palinllnvantedecnzinlnuhummhnliedlnllchunrc
v!thwhiehhol|¢dl|i|Md,avmbyh||anl|nh|,loh|1;!h-
queutlyrellevedpsinmlperiurmedfumlhbleeunl. Inor-
d¢rtorehte1'ea&h1lln,DrHayg|xthm|de|»ad|n||~|d|n,v¢k
whichhemdothulpndueatlllludidnaunycistgitwu
|lleg¢d,evang|'etermrlmm'awnlad¢rf\1tlunnlp¢~wunol|taed
ofl.heptent|uHla¢raa|ar|o!'Pe|iin|. Thepdenthtctusof
Peflingthuvislqwmnapheeofquaiay TflH|§'DfH
VBl!|'»h8l*|' ¢m'H"'"- .lldiylldlllpty
rdnathcoutcryofqulckuyaalmdlynndalohenutbeyplune
-theyvIllnevu'sumndingettlxgxidoflhohnnlh|¢humbq¢,
inonefouuulmothqnntilthcydullauulhuadtncubmiz,
Nhthdrhmdaxnnunpathandnagtupllnqqahialhwusd
gltbnoftheprlndplsmilpmcueaafllnznsutlllildiadplu.
The¢hehofP¢lkhh'n,uv|llllho|»|ofAah||H|gne-
is|n,ve|'e||c:'Ihodbynll|vu1|dp||yh&|h#na-h&|h#na-
lin. WHtlIUB 1#Il!HII illi1|¢,N
hethemkmmdummyemhumihnryuhmt Anangu
lhothervirtuu mtn|nu'hed,hll||i,byio1lydchn|
itneematoaiiiurdmudmirublaansuaatoloyonnnemdindo-
lame. Butiftheinugimdmrenllydnaapaaannxdnuto-
ahhlngpovsgvhy illu|¢1lll0fdlll.ll@ d0ll0¢¥h
Doctonuuaa£mque||tlydo|ehdrplU!lvilhImlg|Il¢|m,
inateanlofpnlomouldmqar Ilthstgxlstuqundlryhqugig
dheunby oft.heI|mQ!ltion,thmbyBl|ub|rb,`|(ng»
nal|,0plum,|ndAr|enicP But,neenmBnghBtB.¢l,Q||lit
Duuluurnucdltpuloqlouuuwuuuhuunoluh. B]-Chl-'Will
|¢pad|u|nnwhyhc|llvat¢pm'odueedbylhulrb,Mqzd|,
1
I
_ | -
, .
_
. 0 .
.
_ , | _ » -
.
,
~
_
_
-
,- I
_
-
,
'
1
, -
|
I
_
'
|-_
_
I
-
_ .
__
l
'I
220 Amman MAGNETISM.
peated friction in certain directions, a
magnetic
attraction could be excited in iron, without the ap-
plication of any magnet, and partly seduced, also,
by the supposed fact, that, in the process above
mentioned, the animal body exhibited a certain po-
larity and inclination, Mesmer now
jumped at once
to the conclusion, that there exists in the animal
frame an original and peculiar species of magne-
tism, which is capable of being set in activity with-
out the aid of the artificial magnet. He then ex-
tended this magnetic power over all nature, form-
ed theories upon this assumed fact, and, in so far
as this alleged influence was manifested inthe ani-
mal body, he gave it the name of animal, to dis-
tinguish it from the mineral magnetism. *
Opium, Arsenic, Foxglove, Mercury, &c. should not also be re-
ferred to the iniiuence of the imagination. This would tend
greatly to simplify the theory of Medicine. The universal
panacea is at length discovered. The medical report gf every
case successfully treated might henceforth be drawn up in some-
thing like the following terms :
"
Visited A. B. whom I found confined to bed in a very weak
state, and labouring under a severe attack of .__.. Pres-
scribed the following dose:
Bf ....
and, such was the effect of this treatment upon the Imagination
of the patient, that he rapidly recovered, is now quite well, and
able to go about his ordinary business.
'
It has been thought proper to point out, thus parti-
cularly, the original mistake of Mesmer, because it is quite
Amman MAGNETISM. 221
It is highly probable, if not absolutely certain,
that the discovery of that organic susceptibility,
which gave rise to the magnetic treatment, did not
originate entirely with Mesmer himself, but was
suggested to him by the perusal of the works ol'
certain mystical writers of the sixteenth and se-
venteenth centuries, to which reference has already
been made. But Mesmer has the unquestionable
merit of having been the first, in recent times, who
availed himself of the hints thrown out by these
earlier writers, and who, by patient and indefati-
gable investigation and experiment, succeeded in
establishing, as demonstrated fact, that which, so
far as we know, had previously been, at least- in a
great measure, theory and conjecture.
From the period of this curious discovery, how-
ever, in whatever manner it may have been sug-
gested, its author daily assumed a more
mysterious
demeanour, veiled his experiments and observa-
tions in a sort of sacred obscurity, and talked no
more of mineral, but of animal magnetism. He no
certain that a
great deal of the argument, and almost the whole
of the wit and ridicule, by which the magnetic treatment has,
at any time, been assailed, have been suggested by the name;
and many persons, otherwise ignonmt of the subject, still seem
to expect, like the Bret French Commissioners, to see the map-
netie _fluid sensibly exhibited. I formerly mentioned, that, for
this and other reasons, many intelligent persons conceive the
name of Animal Magnetism to be improper; but it would not
be easy now to substitute one more appropriate.
222 Amman. lfA3Nl.'l'l8la _
longer made use of the magnetic rods, but consi-
dered his own
body as the depository of thiemag..
netic'virtue, which he was not merely capable 'of
communicating at pleasure, by immediate manipu-
lation, but could convey to a distance, by the power
of~his volition, and thus eradicate themost compli-
cated diseases, without explaining, in an intelliv
gible and satisfactory manner-probably without
perfectly comprehending-the nature of the me-
thod by which he performed his cures.-
No person was able to penetrate this mysterious
obscurity; ~but it was still commonly believed that
Mesmer continued to operate by means of magne-
tic rods concealed about his person. Meanwhile,
some learned individuals endeavoured to throw
discredit on his treatment; and others, who had
once been attached to him, afterwards publicly
and explicitly proclaimed their scepticism. Mes-
mer, in short, was
pretty generally held to be an
impostor, or, at least, a self-deceiving enthusiast.
In order to obviate these suspicions, he sent circu-
lar letters to the most celebrated learned societies
in Europe, in _which he attempted to explain his
principles, and gave an account of his magnetic
cures. Of these learned bodies, the~Royal Aca-
demy of Berlin alone condesoended to return an
answer, in which some doubts were expressed, and
some
queries put to the author, to which, however,
nuuat. Maeunrxsx. 228
he did not think proper to make any reply; and
by this conduct he strengthened the unfavourable
opinion which had been entertained against ~him..*
The ill repute» in which he now stood in the eyes
of his professional brethren, and -the scientific pub-
lic in general, induced Manner to leave Vienna, in
the year 1777, and to look out for some new theatre
for the exercise of his- magnetic art. Some time
elapsed before the public received- any certain in-
telligence respecting his -movements; but at length,
in themonth of February 1778, he made 'his ap-
pearance at Paris, where, however, he' atiirst found
the learned but little disposed to patroniwhis dis-
covery.~ He was afterward; however, fortunate
enough to make a convert of Dr D'Eslcn, who be-
came a zealous partizan of the magnetic 'doctrine
and treatment, and -encouraged Mesmer to publish,
in theffollowing-year, a short treatise,1- which, be-
sides an
apology for his conduct in Vienna, con-
tained a concentrated view of his system, in twen-
ty-seven-propositions. The following is the sub-
stance of this system.
Theee exists a'
reciprocal induenoe between the'
'
See Hi|t.d¢l'Aood. Royale dn Seieaou,anl775, p.33,_
&.c., and Nowdlea Momoirudofdoadalade Berlin, an 1715.-
Hiet.p.88.
'
fummmm Doooworudu x¢g»»a»»¢ Aww. Pu-|»,
1779.
224 ANIMAL MAGNETISML
heavenly bodies, the earth, and animated beings:
The medium of this influence is a
very snbtile
fluid, pervading the whole universe, which, from
its nature, is capable of receiving, propagating, and
communicating every impulse of motion. This
reciprocal action is subject to certain mechanical
laws, which have not yet been discovered. From
this action there result alternative effects, which
may be considered as a sort of _/lux and rqflui.
This Hux and reiiux may be more or less general,
more or less particular, more or less compounded,
according to the nature.of the causes which deter-
mine them. It is by this operation (the most uni~
versal of those which nature exhibits to us), that
the relations of activity are maintained between
the heavenly bodies, the earth, and its constituent
parts. The properties of matter, and of organized
bodies, depend upon this operation. The animal
body experiences the alternative eH'ects of this
agent; which, by insinuating itself into the sub-
stance of the nerves, affects them immediately.
The human body exhibits properties analogous to
those of the magnet, such as pohrity and inclina-
tion. The property of the animal body, which ren-
ders it susceptible of this influence, occasioned its
denomination of Animal Magnetism. The action
and the virtue of Animal Magnetism are capable
of being communicated to other animated and in-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 225
animate bodies. The one and the other, however,
are
susceptible of them in different degrees. This
action and this virtue can be increased and propa-
gated by these bodies. We observe from experi-
ence the flowing of a certain subtile matter, which
penetrates all bodies, without perceptibly losing
any of its activity; and it operates at a. consider-
able distance, without the aid of any intermediate
object. Like light, it is reflected by mirrors; and
it is invigorated, diifused, and communicated by
sound. This virtue is capable of being accumul
lated, concentrated, and transported. There are
animated bodies, although very rare, which possess
a
property so
opposite to Magnetism, that
their
mere
presence prevents all its effects in other bodies.
This oppositepower also penetrates all bodies, and
is also capable of being' concentrated and diffused :
It is, therefore, not merelya negative, but a really
positive power. The mineral magnet, whether na.-
tural or artificial, is likewise equally susceptible
with other bodies of Animal Magnetism, and even
of the opposite virtue, without suffering, in either
case, any alteration of its agency in respect to iron;
which proves that the principle of Animal Mag-
netism is essentially diiferent from that of the mi-
neral. This system will furnish new illustrations
of the nature of fire and of light; as also of the
theory of attraction, of Bax and reflux, of the mag-
226 Annum srsem-:'r|sM.
net and of electricity. It will inform us, that the
magnet and artilieialelectrjicity only have, with
respect to diseases, properties in common with se-
veral other agentswhich naturepresents to us;
and that, if the former have produced some salu-
tary elfects, theseeifects are to ~be ascribed' to Ani-
mal Magnetism. Bymeans of Animal Magnetism,
nervous diseases mayébe cured immediately, and
other complaints 'mwsdistelyz It explains' to us the
operation of the remedies,-aad~~promotss»the salu-
tarycrises. -
With the knowledge of its principles,
the can discover, with certainty, the ori-
gin, the nature, and the progress of diseases, even
the most complicated; he can arrest their progress,
and' ultimately cure them, without ever. exposing
the patient to dangerous or troublesome conse-
quences; Lastly, this doctrine will euablethe phy-
sician to judge accurately with respect to- the de»
gree of health possessed by all individuals, and-to
preserve them from those diseases to which they
maybe exposed. Thus, the- science of Medicine
may attain its highest degree of perfection!
'
Since the great light which has been thrown upon this sub-
ject' by the more widely extended practice of Animal Magne~
tism among persons of learning and intelligence, these early
mystical theories of Mesmer and his partisans, which appear to
have been borrowed hom the writers of a previous age, have be-
come rather curious than really interesting or instructive. In
awork like the present, however, some notice of them eouldnot,
.Z
Aumn. Macuansx. 227
This novel, extraordinary, and obscure theory
found no favourable reception among men ofscience
in France; on the contrary, it was, perhapsnot
undeservedly, treated, as the dream of a
visionary,
with coldness or
contempt.
The Medical Faculty of Paris, however, could
not be expected to continue altogether indifferent
to the subject, especially as one of its members,
Dr D'Eslon, was not only a zealous partisan of
Mesmer, but had actually published a work upon
Animal Magnetism; But t.he"measures atlength
resorted to, for the purpose of vindicating the ho-
nour and privileges of the body, were 'not,-aslured-
ly, very creditable 'to the state of science and lille-
rality towards the conclusion of "
the philosophical
century." Instead* of candidly investigating the
whole matter, with a view to ascertain the truth or
falsehood of the obnoxious doctrine, theyproceod-
ed, at once, to deprive the magnetic Doctor of his
voice in the Faculty for a whole year, and threat-
ened farther, that, if he did not reoant his prin-
ciples at the expiration of that period, his name
should be finally erased from the list of members;
in short, that he should he excommunicated. An'
with propriety, have been omitted. But let no one
imagine
that he has demolished Animal Magnetism, as a fact, when he
has merely demonstrated the improbahility of these hypothaes
to explain its cause-
228
`
ANIMAL Mscuerism.
incipient schism in the church, some centuries ago,
could not have been contemplated at Rome with
greater horror and alarm, than were exhibited by
these disciples of Esculapius on the disclosure of
the magnetic heresy!
"
But although deprived of scientific and profes-
Leamed bodies seldom obtain much credit from posterity
for their attempts to interfere with the progress of scientific
discovery. In the year 169, the celebrated Galen _came to
Home, where he became eminent for his BUCCCSBHII practice ; but
the ignorance of the learned of those times drove him thence by
an accusation of practising the magical arts. The system of
Copemicus was, for a considerable perlod, embraced by astrono-
mers only: The leamed in all other sciences viewed it with
scom and contempt. In the 17th century, Galileo was perse-
cuted by the Roman Consistory, for maintaining the true theory
of the planetary motions. The medical ihculty have always
been peculiarly unfortunate in their ludicrous crusades against
heretical remedies. Whenever they have ventured to enter
the lists, they have almost invariably been beaten od' the field.
In the year 1566, the Faculty of Medicine at Paris issued a
mandate prohibiting the use of antimony, and this mandate was
confirmed by the Parliament. Paumier of Caen,a great chemist
and celebrated physician at Paris, having disregarded this man-
date of the Faculty, thus sanctioned by the Parliament, was de-
graded in 1609. The Quinquina, or Peruvian bark, was im-
ported into Europe by the Spaniards in l640. Nine or ten
years afterwards, the Jesuits distributed a great quantity of it
at Rome, curing intermittent fevers with it, as if by enchant-
ment. The physicians, however, declared war against this effi-
cacious remedy, and the ecclesiastics prohibited sick persons
fi-om using it, alleging that it possessed no virtue but what it
derived from a compact made by the Indians with the devil.
In 1784, the Medical Faculty of Paris prohibited the practice
of Animal Magnetism by any of its members, under the penalty
of being deprived of the privileges of their profession.
4
Amman MAGNETISM. .
229
sional patronage, the practice of Animal Magnet-
ism began to make considerable progress among
the public; and this progress was greatly accele-
rated in consequence of the successful magnetic
treatment of some patients from among the more
respectable classes of society, who published ac-
counts of their cures, and being astonished at the
result of the means employed, took occasion to be-
stow the most extravagant panegyrics upon
mer and his remedial art. Among these was the
celebrated Courtde Gebelin, the learned author of
the Monde Primittf who, from a
very dangerous
state, had been restored to health by Magnetism;
and who, in a letter to his subscribers, not only re-
lated the particulars of his own case, as a proof of
the superior eilicacy of Mesmer's treatment, but
extolled the magnetic panacea as the most wonder-
ful and the most beneficial discovery that had been
made by human wisdom and ingenuity since the
creation ofthe World!
'
It is a very great mistake to suppose that all learned and
intelligent men were opposed to the doctrlnes of Mesmer : on
the contrary, he had a considerable number of adherents among
the most respectable and best educated classes of society. M.
de Segur, the elder, formerly Ambassador from France at the
Court of St Peterburgh, in his amusing publication, entitled,
Msmoiru, Souvenir: at Anecdotes (voL ii.), informs us, that he
himself was one of the most zealous disciples of Mesmer, as were
also MM. de Gebelin, Olavides. d'Espreme'nil, de Jaucourt,
de Chsstellux, de Choiseul-Gouiiier, de Lstiyette, and many
S80 annul. MAGNETIIM.
The very mystery in which Mesmer enveloped
his treatment, tended to excite curiosity, while it
withdrew the attention from the active principle,
and thus caused him to be regarded individually as
an extraordinary personage, full of the old Egyp-
tian wisdom, and conversant with all the secret in-
fluences of nature. This, while it extended his re-
putation, seemed to Hatter the vanity and mystical
disposition of the man. His house became crowd-
others, all ,enlightened and talented men. _
M. de Segur never
sbandoned his conviction of the reality of the phenomena of
Animal Magnetism, and he very judiciously appeals to his own
experience in justification of this conviction. "
I have no de-
sire," says he, "
to enter into any controversy on the subject ;
it is sudicient for me to adirm that, having been present at a
great number of experiments, I have witnessed impressions and
effects very real, very extraordinary, but of which I have never
had the cause explained." On the supposition that these im-
pressions and effects may be the results of an exalted imagination,
M. do Segurvery pertinently asks, whether this word imagina-
tion can be considered as a suiiiciently satisfactory refutation,
and whether the learned and philosophical are not bound, at
least, by the love of truth, to investigate the causes of this new
and strange power of the imagination. Assuredly, says he,
when such men as I have mentioned, and hundreds of other
learned and_ intelligent, individuals, in all parts of Eunope, have
expressed their conviction of the reality of certain facts, founded
upon personal experience, it must require something more than
a mere theoretical reiixtstion to invalidate theevidencein ii-
vour _ofa particular doctrine. It is not sudieient to ascribe the
edécts in question to the influence of the imagination g the ad-
vocates of that theory are imperatively called upon to explain
what they mean by imagination, and how the peculiar edbcts
QI! b¢ rlti0xsl1y_attrlbuted to the induence of that hculty.
ANIMAL masuzrxsm. 231
ed with patients of all ranks, and from every quar-
ter; and such was the extent and success of his
practice, that, in the course of a short time. he is
said to have amassed a
large fortune.
(232)
CHAPTER XI.
ALTHOUGH Mesmer had the unquestionable me-
rit of being the first who experimentally discovered
and demon trated the effects of the magnetic pro-
cess
upon the animal constitution, and who em-
ployed that process systematically for the cure of
di eases, it cannot be denied that he greatly retard-
ed the general acknowledgment of the reality and
the value of his discovery, ,by the absurd aifectation
of much idle, unnecessary, and almost ludicrous
solemnity, in his mode of conducting the treat-
ment. We have now no means of ascertaining whe-
ther all this was done merely for the purpose of
mystzjication, or whether he himself actually be-
lieved it to be essential to the success of his prac-
tice. There can be no doubt, however, that this
afectation of mystery was
highly unfavourable to
the scientific investigation of the subject, besides
injuring his own character in the eyes of many
learned and sensible persons, who, looking only at
the acces ories, and having no
knowledge of the
essential agent, were disposed to regard him mere-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 288
ly as an
imposing quack ; "whereas, we have every
reason to believe that he was himself sincerely im-
pressed with a conviction of the reality, and the
great scientific importance, of the discovery he had
made, however much he might attempt to disguise,
disfigure, and obscure it by ridiculous ceremony
and ostentation.
He operated not only by the actual touch of his
hands, or
by means of an iron rod extended to some
distance from his body; but, by means of cords, he
placed his patients in connexion with magnetized
trees, or conducted the invisible magnetic fluid out
of covered vessels (baquets) to the patients, who
sat round in a circle; and, by this treatment, he
was enabled to throw them into very peculiar states,
which could not be properly called either sleeping
or waking, but presented some of the phenomena
of both. It sometimes happened, however, that
none of all these arrangements was found neces-
sary; for a single look from Mesmer was
frequent-
ly suflicient to produce the same effects. This last
circumstance will be better understood when we
come to consider the improvements which were
made upon the processes of Animal Magnetism
subsequently to the retirement of its disccverer.
-
In order, it is supposed, to increase the ellicacy
of the treatment, the apartment in which he per-
vox.. 1. U
2344 Asmu. Mmnsrrsu.
'
formed his operations and cures was darkened to
a sort oftwilight ; a number of mirrors were placed
around it; and a
profound and mysterious silence
prevailed, which was onlyinterrupted occasionally
by the tones of the harmonica, an instrument upon
which Mesmer himself performed with 'great skill,
or
by those of a harpsichord.
All this whimsical apparatus and mystery, how-
ever essential it may have
'
appeared to Mesmer
himself; had toe much the semblance of quackery,
and was
certainly calculated to operate unfavour-
ably to the reputation ef his treatment in the minds
of sober' and scientific nieu; who, upon a superfi-
cial view, and judging merely from what was ae-
taally submitted to their senses, must have been
inclined to attribute any etfectsswhich they'wit-
nessed to the iniiuenee of the surrounding scene
upon the imagination and the nervous
system, ra-
ther than to that secret magnetic virtue' to which
the operator ascribed them, but which could 'not be
palpably exhibited. It is said that Mesmer, in his
latter days, approved and adoptedthe more simple
and less ostentatious, yet equally eHicacious, pro-
cesses, which were subsequently introduced by his
successors in the magnetic art. The Mesmerian
system, however, along with the use of the baquet,
was for a long time retained, and, if not now, was,
ANIMAL Macs:-:'r1sM. 235
at least till lately, ,practised by some of hisedis-
ciples. _
Mesmer was not only, deprived 'of the counte-
nance of the medical profession and the protection
of government; he wasridiouled byfthe wits of
Paris, and attacked andcalumnhted, bythe public
journals, into which, we are- told, thecensors al-
lowed no article to be admitted which .emanated
from any of his partizans. Iudignant at 'such .illi-
beral conduct, he at length found it necessary to
vindicate himself, and to expose to theworldthe
unfair proceedings of his enemies!
It cannot be denied, however, that Mesmerdrcw
down upon himself a
great deal of this obloquy and
persecution by the obscurity of some of his propo-
sitions, the mystery attending his practice, and by
the coldness and contempt with which he affected
to treat the professors, as-well as the profession, of
the medical art. He boldly set out- with the ex-
traordinary and novel principle: There is but one
hea1tl|,one-disease, undone remedy; and hearro-
gated to himself the discovery of the grand pana-
cea.
'
Bee Preeia Historique dn Fai# relatsffr au
Magnetisma Ani-
mal, Mr. 1181; a work which deserves to»be carefullyperneed
by all those who are desirous of obtaining a full knowledge of
the early history of the magnetic doctrines and practice, and of
the violent struggle they had to maintain with prejudice and
persecution.
238 ANIMAL MAGNETIBM.
tery in which it had been hitherto enveloped, and
which had, at least, secured it from any flagrant
abuse. The secret wasnot kept: The art was em-
pirically practised by persons who had obtained
merely a
superficial knowledge of its principles-;
and it was
frequently exposed to the most ludicrous
misapplications; circumstances which could not
fail to bring the whole treatment into general dis-
credit.
In the mean time, however, some of M'esmer's
pupils made a more
prudent and cautious use of
Animal Magnetism. They established Harmonic
in the different provinces and towns of
France, and united themselves under the
general
superintendence of Mesmer. In these institutions,
the destitute sick were magnetised gratis, in the
presence of physicians; the discoverie made in the
progress of their practice were communicated to
each other; and the most interesting ca es were
made public through the medium of the press.*
'
These early publications on the phenomena of Animal Mag-
netism, are very numerous, and some of them exceedingly in-
teresting. The following deserve especial notice :_-
Detail des Cures opereés B. Lyon par le "Magn. Anim. selon
les Principes de M. Mesmer, par M. Orelut; precede d'une
Lettre i M. Mesmer. Lyon, 1784.-Rapport des Cures ope-
reés h Bayonne par le Msgn. Anim. par M. le Comte Max. de
Puysegur; avec des Notes de M. Duval d'Espremenil. Bayonne
et Paris, 1784.-Detail des Cures Opereés 5. Burzancy par-le
Magnet. Anim. Soissonns, 1784.-Nouvelles Cures opereés par
Aumu. masunrrsu. 289
It is rather singular that the Medical Society of
Paris paid so little attention to this alleged disco-
very, considering the great sensationit had excited
among the public; and that they permitted Animal
Magnetism to be practised for so
long a
period,
without any investigation, interruption, or hinde-
rance upon their part.
In the year 1778, indeed, at the solicitation of a
friend of Mesmer's, they appointed a committee to
le Magnet. Anim. Paris, 1784.-Recueil d'0bservations et de
Falts relatlli au Magnet. Anim. Publié par la Socleté de Gui-
enne i Bordeaux. 1785.-Appergu de la Manlere didministrer
les Remedes lndiquis par le Magnet. Anim. 5 l'Usage des Mag-
netlseurs qui ne sont Medicina. 1784.-Expose des dlfferentes
Cures opereés depuis le 16 d'Aout 1780; Jusqu'- au 12 de Juin
1786, par les Membres de la Socleté Harmon. de Strasburg.
1786.-Suite des Cures faites par diiferens Magnetiseurs de la
Societé Harmon. de Strasb. 1787.-Annales de la Soc. Harm.
de Strasb., ou Cures que le Membxes de cette-.Societe ont ope-
reés par le Magnet. Anim. Strasb. 1789.-Ertrait des Jour-
naux d'un Magnetlseur (Comte de Lutzelbourg), attaché a la
Soc. Hum. de Strasb. 1786.-Journal dn Traltement Mag-
netique de la Dem. N. &c. par- M. Tandy de MontnveL
Lond. 1786.-Suite du Traitement, &c. By the same.-Joun
nal du Traitement Magnet. de Madame Braun. By the same.
Strssb. 1787.-Lettre A Mad. la Comtesse de L. contenant une
Observation Magnetique, faite par une Somnambule sur un
Enfant de Six Mols. 1787.-Nouveaux Extraita des Journaux
d'un Magnetiseur, &c. Straub. 1788.-Faita et Notions Mag.
uetiques. Straub. 1788.-Journal Magnetique du Traitement
de Mademoisselle D. et de Madame N. par M. C. de Lyon.
1789. A great deal of curious information upon this subject
will be found also in the periodical and other publications of
those times, but much of it must be received with caution, as
many false and prejudiced views of it were entertained.
240 ANIMAL Macunrxsu.
'
enquire into this subject, consisting of the physi-
cians, Dauhenton, Desperrieres, Mauduyt, Andry,
Tessier, and Vicq-d'Azyr ; but Mesmer himself, al-
though he had no
objection to receive these gentle-
men, or any other individuals, as witnesses of his
treatment, would not agree to the proposed inves-
tigation, on the ground that it might give him too
much the appearance of a common
mystical em-
piric. On the other hand, he proposed to the Me-
dical Faculty, as a test of the superior eiiicacy of
his practice, that twenty-four patients should he
selected from the hospitals, one-half of whom were
to be treated according to the usual principles of
medicine, and the other half should be magnetised
by himself." This proposal, however, was not ac-
cepted by the Faculty, who contented themselves
with commissioning two of their number, MM.
Andry and Thouret, to investigate the medicinal
effects of the mineral magnet, a task which these
gentlemen performed in a
very satisfactory man-
ner.1-
'
The same
proposal, it is said, has been repeatedly made by
the Marquis de Puysegur, but it has never been accepted. The
circumstance is remarkable, as it demonstrates, at least, the
great coniidence which the magnetisers repose in the efiicacy
of their peculiar mode of treatment.
1- See 0basroation|ctReohen:hca|ur1'u»agade Paimantm Me-
deaine, ou Memoirs: nw le Magnctinu Medicinal; in the Himin
de la Soviet! Royale do Modoaine for the year 1779. Paris, 1782.
.ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 241
At length, when Animal Magnetism prevailed
to such an extent in France, as to give occasion to
.many abuses of that practice in the hands of the
ignorant and unskilful, a
royal mandate was issued,
upon the 12th of March 1784, to the Medical Fa-
culty, requiring them to appoint commissioners to
inve tigate the matter. Two commissions were in
consequence appointed: the one consisting of mem-
The medicinal eflicacy of the mineral maglet seems to have
been observed in ancient times, and its application, in certain
diseases, was recommended by Galen and Dioscorides. Borelli
takes notice of its application in the toothache and earache :
"
Quidam sunt, qui dentiscalpia, auriscalpiaque habent, quae tactu
solo dolores dentium, aurium et oculorum tollant." Klarich of
Gottingen, occupied himself, about the year 1765, with experi-
ments on the medicinal efficacy of Magnetism. (See the Ha-
mnaerian Magazine for 1765, and the Giittingen Lilerary Advertiser
for 1765, 1766. The reader will also find this subject amply
discussed in the following works :___
Ludwig, Dissert. de Magnetismo in Corpore Humane. Leip.
I772.
`
J. C. Unzer, Beschreibung der mit dem Kiinstlichen Magnet
angestellten Versuche. Altona, 1775.
J. F. Bolten, Nachricht von einem mit dem Kiinstlichen
Magnet gemachten Versuch in einer Nervenkrankheit. I-lamb.
i775.
J. A. Heiusius, Beytriige zutmeinen Versuchen welche mit
kiinstlichen Magneten in verschiedenen krankheiten anges-
tellt worden. Leip. 1776.
Sammlung der neuesten gedruckten und geschriebenen Na-
chrichten von Magnetcuren. Leip. 1778.
Historia Trismitonici Quadraglnta fere Septimannrum a Phi-
liatro de Wocher cunti. Freiburg, I778.
VOL. I .
X
242 uumu. mscnmrsu.
bers of the Academy of Sciences-Franklin, Le
Roi, Bailly, De Bori, and Lavoisier-and of the
Medical Faculty-Bovie, and after his death, Ma-
jault, Sallin, D'Arcet, and Guillotin; the other
composed of members of the Society of Physicians
-Poissonier, Desperrieres, Caille, Mauduyt, An-
dry, and Jussieu.
The result of the investigation by these commis-
sioners is well known. They published reports,
abounding with inconsistencies certainly, but drawn
up with great art, and, upon the whole, altogether
unfavourable to the pretensions of Animal Magne-
tism; and these reports seem to have satisfied most
of the scientific men of that period, and have been
appealed to ever since-more especially in this
country, where great ignorance of the subject has
always prevailed -as
having set the question, re-
specting the merits of the magnetic treatment,
completely at rest. *
'
See Rapport des Commissaires de ls Societe Royale de
Médecine, nommés par le Roi, pour faire Pexamen du Magne-
tisme Animal. Paris, l784.- Rapport des Commissaires chargm
par le Rai de Pexamen du Magnetisme Animal (by M. Bailly.)
Paris, 1784.-Ecpafé des experiences qui ont été þÿ bes
sur le
Msgnetisme Animal: Lu a1'Academie des Sciences, par M.
Bailly. ram, 17sa_mp.»¢ of Benjamin Frankun, md cum
Commissioners charged by the King of France with the exami-
nation of the Animal Magnetism, as nqw practised at Pads:
translated from the French, with an historical introduction-
Lond. 1785.
The following extract from the Report of the Commissioners
ANIMAL Mssunrxsu. 243
_
'1`he whole of this investigation, however, is al-
leged by the professors of Animal Magnetism, and
upon good' grounds, to have been conducted in a
will sudiciently shew the object they appear to have lmd in
view, and the method in which the investigation was conducted :
l. Le duide, que les Commissaires nomment Fluide magne-
tique animal, n'exisfe pas, ear il echappe 5 tous le sens. _
2. Ce fiuide echappant A tous les sens, son existence ne peut
etre demonstré que par les elfets euratiih dans le traitement des
maladies, ou par les eifets momentanés sur Peconomie animsle.
Ilfautenluredcoa dau-¢pnuvasIetraUo|||n!dc¢s|s1adi¢r,paree-
qwilnepsutfoumirquedasresultats toujours incartsincst :assent
Jrompeurs.
3. Les verltsbles pneuves, les preuves purement physiques
de Pexistenoede ce fluids, sont Ieaqib momsatanis snr leoorps
cnilldl.
Pour s'assurer de ees eHv`eta,_les Commisnaires ont hit des
epreuves: 1. Sur eux-memes; 2. Sur sept malades; 3. Sur
quetre personnes; 4. Sur une socleté assembleé chez M. Frank-
lin; 5. Sur des mslades membléschez M. Jumelin; 6. Avec
un arhre msgnetié; 7. Enfia sur dilferens snjets.
4. De ces expes-ienees,laCommi»airs mt conclu, quel'ima-
gination Brit tout, que le Magnetimeest nul. Imagination, imi-
tation, attouchement, telles sont les vrais muses des eH`ets--a1.-
tribué an Magnetisme Animal. .
5. Les procedés du magnetisme etant dangereux, il suit que
tout traitement public, on les moyena du msgnaisme seront em-
ployés, ne peut avoir a la longue que des elfets fimestes.
Such is the substance of this celebrated report. It seems
quite clear, that these Commissioners were exceedingly igno-
rant of the subject they were charged to investigate, and that
their report was sddrened to a public even more
ignorant than
themselves. It would appear, however, that their principal ob-
ject was to satisfy themselves of the existence or non-existence
of the alleged 1nsgnelio._#uid, which Huid was never any thing
more than a mere hypothesis in the magnetic theories-a gra-
tuitous assumption of Mesmer's, in order to enable him to sc-
oount forthephsnomena; aadthereslityofthesephenomaa
244 snmax. Maounrrsm.
very partial, superficial, and unsatisfactory mag-
ner. Franklin is said to have been indisposed at
the time, and to have paid little attention to the
being once established, they could bein no degree affected by
the rejection ofthe supposed agent. The ducts connected with
the magnetic treatment would still have stood upon the same
footing as they did previous to the investigation.
But, in other respects, the method pursued by the Commis-
sioners in their inquiries was
sufliciently absurd. Every sys-
tem of doctrine can be legitimately refuted only upon its own
principles, viz. by disproving its facts, and invalidating the prin-
ciples deduced from them. Now, how did the Commissioners
proceed? It was asserted by the magnetisers, upon alleged ex.
perience, that the magnetic treatment was of great eiilcacy in
the cure of diseases; but, so tar as I am aware, they never pre-
tended to say that the effects could be always produced instan-
taneously. But the Commissioners, with singular inconsisten-
cy, rejected altogether the proofsresulting from the treatment
of diseases, for a reason which, if good at all, is equally appli-
cable to every species of remedial treatment, and would esta-
blish the utter uncertainty of all medical science, viz. that "
it
could only furnish results always uncertain, and frequently fal-
laciousg" and they restricted their investigation to an exami-
nation of the effects instantaneously produced, which formed no
part of the magnetic doctrine.
The Commissioners, however, do not pretend to deny that
some effects were produced in the course of their experiments,
which, indeed, is wonderful enough, considering the circum-
stances in which they were made. But these effects they as-
cribed to imagination, imitation, and attowhe|nent._that is to
say, they attempted to refute one theory by setting up another
of their own; and, whether they were
right or wrong, is com-
paratively a matter of little consequence. It is the facts, and
not the opinions of theorist , which are of chief importance
here, as in all other scientific questions. The reader, however,
will find some observations in the sequel, which will probably
convince him, that, in our
present more advanced state of know-
ledge upon this subject, the theory of imagination, imitation,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 24-5
proceedings. Of the whole commissioners, the
learned and intelligent Jussieu, it is stated, took
the greatest interest in the investigation, and be-
stowed the greatest attention upon the phenomena
exhibited; and it is a circumstance rather remark-
able, that this eminent physician not only refused
to subscribe the general report drawn up by the
other commis ioners, but published a
special re-
port of his own, in which he presented an entirely
different view of the matter, and conveyed a much
more favourable impression with regard to the pre-
tensions of Mesmer and his disciples*
and attouchement, is utterly untenable, if not manifestly absurd;
and, in fact, it has been long since abandoned by all the intelli-
gent opponents of`Magnetism.
i
The dangers attending the empirical and unslcilful admini-
stration of Animal Magnetism are allowed upon all hands-by
the partizans as well as by the opponents of the system; but this
observation cannot apply to the treatment, when carefully con-
ducted under scientilic and medical superintendence and con-
trol; and, at any rate, it has nothing to do with the truth of
the facts, unless, indeed, it be to confirm them.
It must always be remembered, that the investigation by
these Commissioners took place at a period when Animal Mag-
netism was yet in its iniimcy. The processes, as well as the
effects, were totally different then from what they are now.
An experienced magnetiser of the pnssent day cannot but
laugh when he finds Magnetism described in the Report of
these Commissioner; as
"
the art of disposing sensible subjects
to convuldve motions !"
°
Rapport de fun da Comminairu (A. L. Jussieu) ohargés
por lc Roi de fssamen du Magnetism: Animal. Paris, 1784.
I have been somewhere accused of misrepresenting the ten.
246 ANIMAL Miaurxrrsxw.
It is well known that these commissioners, in-
general, although men of undoubted learning and
talents, proceeded to the investigation of Animal
dency of the report made by Jussieu. I have not at present
that docum t at hand; but having perused it some years ago;
I am mtisfied of the general correctness of the account I have
given of it, although the author expresses his sentiments with
considerable reserve. On turning to Kluge and Deleuze, I End
that both of these authors speak of it in the same terms. De-
leuzesays, Lesfaitsqu'ilaooite.vaminé|aveo|eaooIlepuaslui
aooient pam qfrir des preuves carlaines de faction du magndiune.
In the recent Report of the Committee of the Royal Academy
of Medicine, Juasieu is alluded to as that "
one conscientious
and enlightened man who had published a
report in contradic-
tion to that of his colleagues." The integrity and manly cou-
rage displayed by Jussieu upon this occasion, will appear still
more conspicuous, when it is known that great interest was em-
ployed, even by the government, to procure his signature to the
general Report, and to prevent him from publishing hisdissent.
Since the preceding part of this Note was written, I have
had an opportunity of again seeing a copy ofthe Report of M.
Jussieu, and I find that it completely bears out my original re-
presentation. I appeal to the Report itself; inwhich the learn-
ed author unequivocally admits the influence of the magnetic
action on the human body. Referring to his own
experiments,
M. Jussieu says:
"
Casfaitasontpaunombreuaetpouoariéa, paroc-
quojsffai puoiter queoeuzquietaicnt bimvarijiéc,¢Hw'1uqud
je n'avais auoun dome. I1.s surrxaasrr roun rua Anuarran
LA POSBIBlLlT'.lf ou Exxsrmvcn n'uN rnnrnn, on AGENT, our
ss roars; na Unoxun 2 sou snnsusnn, nr axnncr ann.-
annrois sua ca naamsa Usa sc-nos' ssxsnu.1:." And ln
enumersting those influences by which the human body may be
affected, the author includes L'AC'|.`ION n'uN rmnnn' ixunré
n'uN cours snnannnn. If these expressions do not imply a
belief of the magnetic action, as asserted by Mesmer and his
disciples, I confess that I am utterly unable to comprehend
their meaning.
ANIMAL HAGNETISM. 247
Magnetismwith minds stronglyprepossessed against
the subject of inquiry. It is certain, too, that they
did not possess a
sumciently intimate knowledge
of that subject, to enable them to conduct their
researches with the requisite skill and judgment.
They did not, however, pretend to deny altogether
the eifects produced by the magnetic treatment,
imperfectly as it would appear to have been ap-
plied; and this is a circumstance of considerable
importance. But, as the fluid which Mesmer and
his friends alleged to be active in the process could
not be physically exhibited, they conceived them-
selves justified in denying its existence- probably
upon the principle, that de mm apparentibus, d non
ezistentibuc, eadem est ratio-and in aecribing the
phenomena which they did observe to sensitive ex-
citement, imagination, and imitation. The commis-
sioners, then, admitted that certain eH'ects were
produced by the magnetic processes which they at-
tempted: and they even
put forth a
theory to ac-
count for the phenomena. But this theory must
just take its place at the side of all the others
which have been formed upon the same
subject;
and it must be ultimately received or rejected, ac-
cording as it shall be found to be confirmed or re-
futed by experience.
"
'
The following circumstanceewill shew the spirit in which
the French Academicians, and other wise men of that period,
contemplated the subject of Animal Magnetism.
24,8 ANIMAL MAcNE'rrsM.
At the period, indeed, when .these commissioners
instituted their investigation, the principles of Ani-
mal Magnetism were hut imperfectly known. They
appear to have been almost entirely ignorant of the
conditions of the treatment. They were not in-
formed of the great iniluence of volition in deter-
mining and regulating the etlicacy of: the magne-
tic process, and that the external means
employed,
although frequently useful, are not absolutely es-
sential, but merely instrumental and accessory,
and may sometimes be altogether dispensed with.
They do not seem to have been aware that we
cannot always be assured of the magnetic influence
by effects instantaneously produced. In short, they
ought previously to have studied the subject more
profoundly; to have multiplied their experiments,
and taken full time to consider the nature of the
Soon after the Commissioners had made their report, M.
Thouret published his book, entitled, Recherches et doules sur le
Magnetisme Animal, in which he proposed to investigate the
subject, not with a view to ascertain the reality of the alleged
facts, or the truth ot' the doctrine, but to point out_its political
and moral relations! In the approbation given to the work of
M. Thouret by the Royal Society of Medicine, they state that
they had perceived with considerable anxiety the vogue which
Animal Magnetism had acquired; that they were much dis-
pleased that its processes, good or bad, had been administered
to patients, without having been previously submitted to them
for their approval, conform to the orders of government; and
that they considered it one of their duties to protest against
such an abuse. From such prejudiced judges what could have
been expected ?
ANIMAL MAGN 1:'r1sM. 249
phenomena, instead of pronouncing an inconside-
rate and hasty decision upon a
very superficial and
imperfect examination.
The experiments, too, were conducted, not un-
der the superintendence of Mesmer himself, but of
his pupil D'Eslon, who afterwards protested again t
the Reports of the Commissioners# as did also
several other professors of Animal Magneti xn;
among whom M. Bonnefoy distinguished himself
by an
ingenious analysis of these Reports, in which
he shewed that the Commissioners had been guilty
of a number of errors and contradictiousfl'
A variety of other publications appeared, about
this period, for and against the practice of Animal
Magnetism ;* and at length Macquart and Brieude
endeavoured to give a final blow to magneticscience,
in the article Imagination, in the Encyclopedic Me-
thodique de Medecine.
The facts, however, which the new
system of
treatment almost daily disclosed, were much too
numerous, too unambiguous, and too firmly esta-
blished, to be overthrown even
by the united force
'
Observations mr In deux Rapport: de M.M. lea Comninairu
nommés par sa
Majnté pour foramen du Magnetienw Animal, par
M. d'Es1on. 1784.
+ Analyse Raisonnée des Rapporls, &c. par J. B. Bonnefoy.
1784.
I A list of the most important of these publications will he
given in the Appendix.
250 ANIMAL macuansm.
of learning, prejudice, ingenuity, ridicule, invec-
tive, and persecution. Accordingly, the subject of
Animal Magnetism continued
'
to occasion much
controversy in France, until, upon the breaking
out of the revolution, other interests than those of
science almost entirely absorbed the public atten-
tion. It was still practised, however, as a reme-
dial art, in some of the provinces of that kingdom,
where schools were formed, and societies establish-
ed, for its cultivation and improvement.
In 'the year 1787, Lavater,* the celebrated phy-
siognomist, imparted the system of Animal Mag~
netism, as
improved by P.uysegur,1- to the physi-
'
It would appear that Lavater had been originally a dishe-
Bever in regard to the magnetic doctrines, until he had an op-
portunity of satisfying himself by experiments. The mystical
views, then combined with the practice ofthe system, werewell
calculated to make a profound impression upon a mind so en-
thusiastic as his. Some curious letters, upon this subject, ad-
dressed by him to his friend Spalding, have been preserved in
the Bth volume of Eschenmayer's Archiv fiir dm Thieriachen
Magnetismus.
T Next to Mesmer, the original discoverer, Animal Magne-
tism, perhaps, lies under the greatest obligations to the Marquis
de Puysegur, especially for the very interesting observations
which he made and published upon the phenomena of the na-
tural and of the magnetic somnambulism. His principal works
upon this subject are, Memoires pour servir a1'Hm°1re et in
1'Establissementdu Magnetisme Animal, Bdedit. Paris, 1820.
-Du Magnetisme Animal, consideré dans ses Rapports avec
diverses branches de la Physique general. 2d edit. Paris,
1809.-Recherches, experiences, et observations Physiologiques
ANIMAL MAGNE'rlsM. 251
cians, Bickers, Olbers, and Wienholt,* in Bremen;
and, about the same time, Boeckmann and Gmelin
received it directly from Strasburg. lt was
owing
principally to the zeal, ability, and industry of those
learned and most respectable physician , that the
magnetic treatment was revived in Germany, where
it has continued to flourish ever since in the bands
of many intelligent adherents, and under the direct
countenance and protection of some of the local
governments. Besides a great variety of learned
works upon this subject, whichhave appeared with-
out intermission,1' there are several Journals, both
sur 1' homme dans l'etat de Somnambulisme naturel, et dans le
Somnambulisme provoqué par l'acte Magnetique. Paris, l8ll.
'
Wienholt, for a considerable period, would not listentoany
argument in ihvour of the magnetic treatment. At length,
however, he was induced to make some experiments upon his
patients, the success of which made him a complete and a sin-
cere convert. He is the author of some valuable works upon
the subject- The most useful is that entitled, Heilkraft des
Thierischen Magnetismusnacheigenen Beobachtungen. Lemgo,
l802 ; 4 vols. Bvo.
Wienholt is, undoubtedly, one of the most _sober and sensible
writers on Animal Magnetism. His experiments were made
with great caution, and all his observations breathe the spirit of
perfect honesty, eandour, and conscientiousness. His prehee
to the work above mentioned is of considerable importance to
the early history of the progress ofthe magnetic treatment.
1- The best elementary publications on Animal Magnetism
are probably, Kings, in German, and Dolan in French, hom
both of whom I have not hesitated to borrow liberally. The
252 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
in France and in Germany, entirely and exclusive-
ly devoted to the phenomena and the theory of
Animal Magnetism; in which the cases falling un-
der that system of treatment are
regularly record-
ed, in the same manner as other important facts
which are observed in medical practice*
Meanwhile, Mesmer seems to have withdrawn
in disgust from that theatre, upon which he had
hitherto acted so
conspicuous a
part. He retired
to his native country, Switzerland, where he is said
to have continued the practice of the magnetic
treatment privately, for the benefit of the poor,_
until the period of his death, which took place up-
on the 5th of March 1815, at Meersburg on the
Lake of Constance, at the advanced age of eighty-
one
years. As a
proof of his sincere belief in the
eflicacy of the remedy which he himself had dis-
latest, and most comprehensive, systematic work in German on
the subject, so far as I am aware, is Professor Kieser's System
des Tellurimus, oder Thierisahen Magnetismus. Leips. 1822. 2
vols. large 8vo.
'
Among the most distinguished of these Journals may be
reckoned the Bibliotheque du Magnetism Animal, published at
Paris since the year 1817, instead ofthe Annales du Magnetivme
Animal, which it replaced; the Amhiufiir den Thierischen Mag-
nclimua, edited by the Professors Eschenmayer, Kieser, Nasse,
and Nees von Esenbeck, and published at Leipsic; and the
Jahrbiicherfiir den Lebem-Magnetiamus, edited by Professor Wol-
fart of Berlin, and published also at Leipsic. I have not re-
cently ascertained whether all or any of these are still in pro-
gress. They constitute a vast repertory of iiscts.
ANIMAL Mxcsrrxsm. 253
covered, it may be remarked, that he not only con-
tinued the practice of Animal Magnetism among
the poor in his neighbourhood, during his retire-
ment, but that he submitted to the magnetic treat-
ment in his last illness, and experienced from it
great relief
During the active period of his career, Mesmer
was
exposed to a
great deal of odium, and his cha-
racter was
frequently assailed by the most oppro-
brious' aspersions. But the important and now
generally recognised facts which he elicited by his
practice, prove that he was no impostor. He ap-
pears to have been constitutionally disposed to
mysticism ; he paraded his discovery in all the
trappings of quackery; and his natural vanity con-
stantly led him not only to magnify his own merit,
but to treat his opponents-nay, even his profes-
sional brethren in general-with a
presumptuous
contempt, which they could not fail to resent.
Yet he seems to have been perfectly sincere in the
doctrines which he professed, and honest in the de-
tail of that experience upon which his theory was
founded. In testimony of hisliberality, it is worthy
of notice, that, although during the course of his
busy life he had ample opportunities of acquiring
great wealth, and was
reported by his adversaries
to be of an avariciou disposition, his whole for-
tune, at the time of his death, was found not to ex-
_/""'
254, ANIMAL Msaumxsm.
~
ceed 10,000 francs. His loss was much lamented,
especially by the poor in his neighbourhood, who
had regarded him, for a long period, as their father
and their physician*
However probable it may be that Mesmer had
perused the writings of those more ancient authors
to whom I have referred in this work, and that
from them he derived the idea of his theory of na-
ture, there still remains to him, in the language of
one of his most faithful and intelligent disciples,
the unquestionable and enduring merit of one of
the greatest and most beneficial discoveries; and it
argues a mean and ungrateful spirit to attempt to
diminish the honour to which he is so
deservedly
entitled. "
Hé raised one corner of the curtain
behind which Nature conceals her secrets. Envy
perceives, acknowledges, and admires the wonders
'
ln an historical sketch of Animal Magnetism by M. de Lau-
sanne, published in the Annales du Magnetinna Animal, itis said
that Mesmer refused the offer of a
yearly pension of 30,000
livres, made to him by the king of France through the minister
Msurepss, because his own
pecuniary interest was a secondary
object with him, and he wished first to have his discovery for-
mally recognised and sanctioned by authority. His answer was:
-Les oflies qui me sont faites me semblent pecher, en ce qu'elles
presentent mon interet pecnniaire, et non
Fimportance de ma
decouverte, comme objet principal. La question doit etre abso-
lument envisageé en sens contraire; car sans ma decoverte, ma
personne n'est rlen. This is not the language of avarlce. It is
also said to have been in consequence of D'Es1on's breach of
confidence that Mesmer was induced to sell his secret.
Annum. MAGNETISM. 255
of somnambulism, which scepticism had previous-
ly denied and rejected as
phantasms and chimeras.
Incredulity can now no longer wrench the victory
from truth, but it tears the palm of merit in pieces,
because it has not fallen to its own share. In its
meauness it cannot elevate itself to the greatness
of the man; therefore it endeavours to. draw him
down beneath its own level, in order still to be
above him. Mesmer expresses himself; upon this
subject, with great truth and dignity:
'
As long,'
says he,
'
as
any discoveries were viewed as chime-
ras, the incredulity of certain learned men left me
in undisturbed possession of them; but since they
have been compelled to acknowledge their reality,
they have laboured to place in opposition to me the
works of antiquity, in which the words, universal
jiunl, Magrwtnism, influences, &c. are to be found.
The question, however, is not about words, but
about things, and the uses to which we
apply them.'
Who ,before Mesmer knew any thing of the pecu-
liar method of operating upon others, which he
discovered, and of the art of producing such re-
markable phenomena asare manifested in somnam-
bulism, which he taught us? Was not everything
that writing or tradition related of this subject as
true, considered as fabulous or absurd? Do we
not owe all that we now know of it, were it ever
so little and unsatisfactory, to Mesmer? What
256 Amman. MAGNETISM.
can those, who distinguish 'so sharply between
Magnetism and Mesmerism, who give out, under
new names (Siderism and Tellurism), the signifi-
cant notions of this man as discoveries of their own,
or
really correct one or two trivial errors-what
can they answer, when they are asked who it -was
that made them acquainted with all that they know
of Magnetism, who rendered them so wise as to be
capable of justly censuring its discoverer in one
thing or another? The Pigmy stands upon the
shoulders of the Giant, looks down upon him with
contempt, and exclaims-How tall am I! Those
ideas of the ancients may have given to his mind
the first impulse, the direction,-may have conduct-
ed him, upon the untrodden path, to the end to-
wards which he strove, and which he attained.
But, admitting that Mesmer derived the first idea
of his theory and art either in Maxwell, or in any
other forgotten author, would that circumstance
derogate from his fame? All great men who have
lived, or who now live, have been indebted for their
knowledge to teachers and to books; they increas-
ed that knowledge by their own
experience and re-
flection. But can we
justly deny them respect and
merit, because the foundation was laid by others?
No one would think of refusing to Boerhaave the
honourable name of one of the greatest of physi-
cians, because he derived his knowledge from the
ANIMAL MAGNE'r1s1u. 257
writings of Galen and Hippocrates, or e teem the
last mentioned as an insignificant empiric, because
he copied the prescriptions in the temples of health,
and is thus said to have become the father of pub-
lic medicine. Who will deny to Newton the fame
of having discovered the law of gravitation, because
Gilbert had previously alluded to it, by viewing
the heavenly bodies as immense magnets which at-
tracted and repelled each other, and, by their re-
ciprocal inlluence, were retained in their orbits?
Who will venture the ridiculous assertion, that
Columbus did not discover a new
quarter of the
globe, because America was
p1°eviously known to
its inhabitants; or that Aeronautics are no new
invention, because Icarus had already flown over
lands and seas on waxen wings ? A
"
To Me mer, therefore, there must ever remain
the originality of his genius and of his invention.
He collected and combined the scattered threads
which, in the labyrinth of ages and events, con-
duct us to the spot where the knowledge of the sa-
native instinct in diseases, and the art of develop-
ing it by means of processes which are in them-
selves restorative, lay sunk and concealed under
the ruins of the temples. He called it again into
light, and to it we are indebted for an extended
science, clearer pro pects into the depths of Nature
vox.. 1. Y
258 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
'_
and the obscurity of the past; while we had pre-
viously been accustomed to deny as
impossible, and
therefore to reject as absurd, all that individuals
had reported of it, because we were
yet ignorant
of the meansand the conditions. A great deal of
sound sense and moral courage are required to in-
troduce ideas which will only be recognized as just
after the elapse of many years. Nay, even to re-
cognise their truth will require more understand-
ing than fall to the share of most men. If there
be any one to whom this assertion appears harsh
or offensive, he is at liberty to avail himself ofthe
right, competent to all, of considering himself as
an
exception."*
Such are the claims of Mesmer to public respect
and gratitude. Let us remember, that "
the most
arduous scientific labours and the most important
discoveries have been achieved by men who have
looked forward to neglect, contempt, and persecu-
tion through life, and have triumphantly endured
all, in the assurance that their fame, phoenix-like,
would spring forth in full splendour from their
humble ashes. It would seem that God has im-
planted in the noblest spirits of his human family
a consciousness of immortality, a certainty that
from their Elysian home they shall see
justice
'
Dr J. c. L. zmimxm; ammmzac/is Danlallung du
Thierischen Magnelismuc, &c. pp. 225, &c.
_
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 259
awarded; shall hear the voice of their praise; shall
be cheered by the gratitude and love of coming
generations; shall behold the ever- ripening harvest
of their labours and their virtues. Posthumous
fame is a meed which posterity ought diligently
to award when deserved."
The time has surely now arrived, when well-
merited, although tardy, justice ought to be déne
to the character and labours of the calumniated
and persecuted discover of Animal Magnetism.
'
American Monthly Review.
260)
CHAPTER XII.
AFTER the retirement of Mesmer, the professors
of Animal Magnetism, in France, became divided
into 'three different schools, varying considerably
from each other in their respective modes of treat-
ment.
The original school of Mesmer, whose chief seat
was at Paris, operated ,principally by physical
means; by touching, rubbing, and pressure with
the hand, or
by the employment of metal conduc-
tors. His disciples made use of magnetic vessels
(baquets*) and trees, and magnetized baths; they
recommended the drinking of magnetized water,
and the carrying of magnetized plates of glass up-
on the stomach; and, in general, their treatment
was calculated to produce strong crises and reac-
tions in their patients. They regarded the con-
vulsions which ensued as a remedial process of na-
ture; and, accordingly, they endeavoured to bring
'
'1'he baquel was a kind of covered tub, filled with water,
iron, glass, &c. which was supposed to contain the magnetic in-
fluence; and cords were attached to this vessel, for the purpose
of conducting the magnetic virtue to the patients under treat-
ment.
AN1M.u. MAGN mxsm. ,
261
them on
by artificial means, and called them crises.
As the first and great object, therefore, in every
magnetic treatment, was to produce such crises,
certain rooms, called chambres de crise, were fitted
up for the purpose; apartments of which the walls
and floors were covered with matrasses and cu-
shions, to prevent the convulsive patients from in-
juring themselves in the access of their crises.
Mesmer's idea, that light and sound are
peculiarly
favourable to the magnetic process, has been al-
ready noticed.
A second school was established at Lyons and
Ostend, under the direction of the Chevalier Bar-
barin, who adopted a mode of treatment totally
different from the preceding.
The school of Barharin operated in a
purely psy-
chical manner, admitting no other agents in the
magnetic process than faith and volition. For this
reason, its disciples were distinguished by the name
of the Spiritualists. They practised no
particular
manipulation ; any physical operations which they
admitted being considered as
merely accessory, or
auxiliary, and by no means essential to the success
of the treatment. They endeavoured, therefore,
to produce all the phenomena of Animal Magnet-
ism in their patients, by firm determination, and
by the energy of the operator-'s volition, even at
262 ANIMAL nacuarxsm..
considerable distances. Their motto was: Veuiuez
le bien-allez et guerissez!
The third school was established under the di-
rection of the Marquis de Puysegur, at Strasburg,
under the name of the Societé Harmonique des amis
reunis. It was
distinguished not only by the ad-
mirable adaptation of its constitution, but- princi~
pally by combining, in a
happy manner, the phy-
sical and psychical treatment, and thus steering a
middle course between the schools of Mesmer and
Barbarin. The chambres de crise-or chambres
cfenfer, as
Pnysegur called them-were entirely
banished from this excellent institution; and the
whole magnetic treatment was conducted in a
manner the best calculated to insure the repose
and comfort of the patients. *
The manipulations,
'
Kluge gives great credit to Puysegur for abolishing the
chambres de arise. Other professors of Animal Magnetism, how_
ever, and among these Van Ghert and Ziermann, look upon
this matter in aquite diiferent light, and, with Mesmer, consi-
der the crises, when skilfully regulated, as
highly salutary. Up-
on this subject, Ziermann makes the following judicious obser-
vations: "
Nature cures many diseases only by means of crises,
that is, in the meaning in which the word is here used, by vio-
lent eiforts. In general, it is only the physician who is capable
of distinguishing this crisis from the disease itself! His im-
portant business is to manage, to moderate, to increase it, ac.
cording to the nature and necessity of the case.
Puysegur,
Deleuze, and the other respectable French magnetisers, are not
physicians-they dread that tumult which they are incapable
of controlling-that activity which they cannot direct and re-
il;
AVNIMAL Maeuarism. 263
when employed, were extremely gentle; and the
hand , instead of being brought into contact with
gulate. They are
right, and act prudently, in not attempting
to excite powers which they cannot govern. But the physician
is in a
quite different situation. He knows what diseases are
cured by Nature through similar efforts : he moderates or
avoids them altogether, when it is desirable to do so; but in
cases where a contrary procedure is indicated, he excites them
with courage and caution. It is a
peculiarity of the magnetic
treatment, however, that it promotes those crises, developes
them earlier, and in a more lively manner, and thus brings the
disease sooner to a termination. These are advantages which
it possesses in a degree beyond all other 'means He who re-
presents these srtiiiclal crises, in general, as injurious, and on
this account refprobates and rejects them, is ignorant of the very
essence and advantages of Magnetism; and instead of render-
ing it more practically useful, he, by the dissemination of such
representations, diminishes the benefits which its application is
peculiarly calculated to aH`ord." Hippocrates has a somewhat
siniilar idea: Ars medioa abao quad molestum est Iiberat, slid, ez
quo qui: agrotat, aqferemlo, nmilatem reddit. Idem et natura
per se facere novit.
The foregoing views of Dr Ziermann might be by
the authority of our own most learned and respectable plfysicians.
I shall only make the following quotation from the late excel-
lent work of Dr Abercrombie On the Brain: "
A man mention-
ed by Dr Russell (Land. Med. Obs. and Eng. vol. L), ahaer an
apoplectic attack, with hemiplegia, recovered the use of his arm
in six weeks, but the lower extremity remained perfectly para-
lytic. After twelve months, in which he made no
improvement,
he was one day astonished to find that he had some
degree of
motion of the leg, but it continued only a few minutes. [On the
same evening he had headach, and in the night he was seized with
a sort of _/il, in which the paralytic limb was strongly oonvulud, and
after thlshs had slight powerofmoving it. Tlw/itreturnednerl day,
and again in the night, and than left him completely free from para.
lysis and in peqfecl health : he had continued well for eight years
264 ANIMAL Macnnrrsm.
the patient, were
frequently kept at some distance
from him. In consequence of this mode of treat-
ment, there ensued crises of a
quite different kind
from those which were known to Mesmer and his
at the time when the account was written. A case somewhat
similar, though of shorter standing, occurred to a friend of mine.
A middle-aged man was suddenly attacked with hemiplegia
and loss of speech, while he was
using violent exercise in walk.
ing quick or running; all the usual practice was employed with-
out any improvement for a month; the paralytic limbs then be-
came one day suddenly convulced, and when this subsided, the para-
lysis was gone. In a woman mentioned by Dr Home (Clinical
Experiments ), hehipkgia qf considerable standing was removed by
an attack qffever.
"
A man mentioned by Mr Squire (Philoso-
phical Transactions, vol. 45.), without any previous complaint,
except a cold, suddenly lost his speech. He had no other para-
lytic symptom, and was otherwise in good health, but continued
perfectly speechless for four years. He was in general a man
of temperate habits, but having at this time been one
evening
much intoxicated, he fell 'from his horse three or four times on
his return home, and was at last taken into a house near the
road, and put to bed. He soon fell asleep, and had a frightful
dream, during which, struggling with all his might to call out
for help, he did call out, and from that time recovered his speech
perfectly."
"
Several cases still more remarkable are related by Diemer-
broek (0bservat. el Curat. Medica, Obs. x.) A woman, who had
been paralytic from the age of six to forty-four, suddenly reco-
vered the perfect use of her limbs. when she was very much
terrified fluringa severe thunder-storm, and was making vio-
lent efforts to escape from a chamber in which she had been
left alone. A man, who had been many years paralytic, reco.
vered in the same manner, when his house was on Ere; and an.
other, who had been ill for six years, recovered suddenly, in a
violent paroxysm of anger."-Annacaouma On the Brain, 3d
edit. pp. 293-294.
ANIMAL Macuxrrxsm. 265
immediate disciples: the most agreeable feelings
were
experienced; the intellectual faculties ap-
peared to be wonderfully increased and exalted,
and, in the higher stages, the patient exhibited a
very delicate knowledge of his own
bodily state,
as well as of the internal condition of such other
patients as were
placed in magnetic conuexion (en
rapportj with him.
This improved treatment, introduced by Puy-
segur, was
subsequently adopted, in a great mea-
sure, by all the best magnetizers, and even, it has
been said, by Mesmer himself. It is to the same
most intelligent maguetizer, too, that we are
prin-
cipally indebted for the discovery of the magnetic
Somnambulism, and of its singular phenomena.
I am not aware that any particular school of
Animal Magnetism predominates in°G'rermany. In
that country, however, the practice of the art is
very generally dilfused-many scientific and prac-
tical works upon the subject have been published
-the treatment is almost universally employed
and recommended by the most intelligent physi-
cians-much attention is bestowed upon the mag-
netic phenomena, and great ingenuity is displayed
in the formation of theories to account for them.
After the preceding historical ketch of the dis-
covery of Animal Magnetism, and of its general
VOLi 1. z
266 animal. msonarrsu.
introduction upon the Continent, itwill appear ne-
cessary, for the benefit of those who may not hither-
to have had an
opportunity of studying the subject,
or of obtaining any correct information respecting
it, that I should make a few observations upon the
magnetic power and susceptibility-the peculiar
method of treatment-and the effects produced
upon the 'organization of the patient. '
.It is alleged by some that every individual does
not possess the capability of operatingmagnetically
upon others; and that even he~who does possess
the power in some degree, willnot always operate
beneficially. 1- Certain properties, 'physical
'
It would swell out this publication to_a most inconve-
nient bulk, were I to enter into any minute detail upon these
particulars. All that I can afford is a
general view of every
branch of the subject, leaving it to the inquisitive reader to
prosecute his researches, by consulting the authors I have re-
thrred to. To professional men this will be suiiicient; and the
less that unprofessional persons meddle with the practice of
Animal Magnetism the hetter. Indeed, after the publication
of the first edition of this work, had the Faculty taken up the
investigation of the subject, as they ought to have done, I pro-
posed to have confined my attention thenceforward entirely to
a consideration of the philosophical views suggested by the phe-
nomena. It is owing to the intellectual sloth of the profession
that I became, and continue to be, an
interloper.
-1- The following, however, is the opinion of a
competent
authority:
"
Every healthy man has the powerof communi-
cating the vim! _#uid ; the more healthy he is, the sounder his
constitution, the more capable he is of communicating it. The
opposite of these conditions produces contrary efects. This
ANIMAL Mscmrrxsu. 267
and partly psychical, are suidto be reqnisilnin-the
practical magnetizer; .and the fortunate combina-
tion of these properties may, in mostcases, be icon-
sideredas a gift of nature. 'Dhere is-a similar in-
equality in the susceptibility of patients-some be-
ing not at all, others very slightly, and others,
again, very easily and powerfully affected by the
magnetic treatment. In generahstrongand healthy
persons exhibit little susceptibility; while weak and
diseased persons are
strongly affected in various
ways.
*
V
With regard to physical constitution, experience
seems to have demonstrated, what might otherwise
Huid is transmitted by means of very simple processes, and even
without their aid, by the sole act of the will. The;act of the
will is not necessary to receive it. It is transmitted the more
easily, in proportion as the will of the operator is real, strong,
and determined. It will, perhaps, be with diHiculty believed,
that the communication of the tiuidsis more or less complete,
according to the degree in which the will of the operator is more
or less developed; but daily experience has enabled us to per-
ceive, that, in order to produce the desired effects, an adept has
been obliged to learn to exert his will, as s child is obliged to
learn to walk."-.Memoirs sur le Fluids Vilal, &.c. in the 2d vo-
lume of the Bibliotheque du Magnetism: Animal.
'
To some of these circumstances, perhaps, we may ascribe
the confirmed scepticism of certain persons, who have made tri-
vial and unskilful attempts to bring the magnetic doctrines to
the test of experiment. They do not reflect, that the magnetic
action, and, consequently, the manifestation of the phenomena,
depend upon certain conditions, and that, if these conditions -are
not iixliilled in the treatment, it is in vain to expect any satin
factory result.
268 Amman Maeunrism
have appeared agreeable to analogy, that the mag-
netizer ought to possess a
preponderance of energy
over his patient. A few instances, indeed, have
been observed, in which weak persons have mag-
netized with effect. But such exceptions are said
to be extremely rare; and Wienholt attempts to
account for them upon the principle, that, in such
subjects, the vital energy has a
greater tendency
to the surface, and therefore a more diffusive efli-
cacy.
The magnetizer ought to possess not merely a
strong natural constitution, but al o a sound state
of bodily health. A maguetizer affected with sick-
ness will not only operate imperfectly, but, besides,
runs the risk of communicating his diseased feel-
ings to the patient, and of thus increasing those
sufferings which it is his purpose to alleviate. The
age of the magnetizer, too, is said to be a matter of
considerable importance. The proper age is that
in which the corporeal and mental powers have at-
tained their utmost development, and before they
have begun to decline; and the doctrinal writers
have therefore fixed it within the period between
the twenty-fifth and fiftieth years. To these phy-
sical qualifications must be added the psychical,
consisting of a sound and energetic mind, a lively
faith, and a determined, despotic volition. -
It has been observed, that different persons are
AN_114AL MAGNETISM. 269
variously susceptiblié of the magnetic iniiuence.
This circumstance will be best understood when'
we come to speak of the effects produced by the
treatment.
`
.
The magnetic treatment is either simple or com-
pound. In the former case, the magnetizer ope-
rates solely by himself; in the latter, he makes use
of certain external media. The simple magnetic
treatment is usually administered with the hand,
and is thence called But the mag-.
netizer can _also operate without employing the
hand-hybreathing, or by fixing _the eyes or the
thoughts, or
both,Vsteadily and intenselylupon the
patient. When the magnetic connexion has been
previously established, a
ingle fixed look of the
magnetiaer, accompanied with energetic volition,
has frequently been found suflicient to throw the
patient into the state of magnetic sleep, or som-
nambulism. ,
'
The magnetic treatment by manipulation com-
prehends several modes of touching and stroking
with the hand, which could not be described here
particularly without leading us into prolixity!
'
I have had several queries addressed to me, both by profes-
sional and by unprofessional persons, relative to these modes of
manipulating; but the inquirers may easily satisfy themselves
by consulting the works I have referred to. For my own part,
I am not disposed to assign the preference to any particular
method, especially, since all have been occasionally employed
with success, and the effects have been frequently produced
270 AERIAL _mlou lrmsm. _
'Phe usual method i to stroke repeatedly with
thepalms ofthe hands and the fingers, in one di-
rection downwards, from the head to the feet; and,
in returning, to throw the hands round in a-semi-
eircle, turning the palms ontwards,'in order not to
disturb the effects of the direct stroke. To mg-_
netize in thecontrary direction-that is, the
feet upwards towards the -hemd--not only counter-
aots theeifects of the former method, but frequent#
ly operates, of itself, prejudicially, especially in the
case of irritable subjects. If we
attempt- to operate
with the back ofthe hand, no effect whatoverwill
probably be produced upon the patient.
If] in the course of this process, the hands or
fingers of the 'operator are made actually to touch
thebody of the patient, it is called manipulation
with contact ; if; on the contrary, the operation is
conducted at=some distance, it is calledmanipula-
tion in distans. The manipulation with-contact is
ef two kinds : It is mcompanied either with consi-
derable pressure, or with slight touching-manipm
lation with strong or with light contact. The ma-
nipulation with strong contact is certainly»the~most
ancient. and (the most universally prevalent mode
of operating; and traces of -it are to be found-in_
without any manipulation at all. The manipulations I should
consider chiefiy useful in fixing the attention, and strengthening
the will.
_
amxmu. MAGNETISM. 271
almost all ages and countries. In manipulating
with light contact, the hand, indeed, is conducted
very lightly along the body of the patient; but the
magnetizer must perform this operation with the
utmost energy, and mustalways have the desire of
applying strong pressure to it.
The ,manipulation in distans is .administered at a
distance of generally from two to six inches from
the patientk body; in theoaee of very susceptible
persons, it is perfhrmed~at.a=still gneater distance;
The effects of this mode of manipulating are less
intense .than those produced by actual contact,
and, besides, -it requires ,a
greater energy-of voli-
tion on
the-pertofthemnagnether. -It.-is,how1ever,
frequently employed in magnetizing very firriteble
patients, who cannot endure any stronger me-
thod.*
It would be .tedious to enumerate-amd deedibe
all the various kinds of manipulation, with regard
to which themelier will receive ample information
by consulting .the -elementary_worl¢s- upon 'this sub-
ject. All ef these, however, may-he combined to-
gether in the magnetic treatment, or
employed
'
Wienholt, however, observed several cases, in which the
patients could not endure the mmipulation in diana. (Bee
Heillsvqfi, &.c. voLi. p.292, etuq. vol.ii. p.349, and voliii.
pp. ll8, ll9.) Kluge observed the samething in one ofhis ps-
tients, but couldnot dheover the .reason ofit. (Kluge ;p. 387,
note c.) _
272 ANIMAL Macumrsnx. _
separately, according to circumstances. Much,
of course, must depend upon the skill and judg-
ment of the magnetizer, who will vary his modes
of operating according to the effects produced,
and the degree of ensibility exhibited by the pa-
tient.
I must not, however, pass unnoticed the method
of administering Animal Magnetism adopted and
recommended by Professor Kluge, in whose work
the whole process is described with great min ute-
ness.'
Before commencing the magnetic manipulations,
it is necessary that the magnetizer and the patient
should be conveniently placed; in order -that the
former may be enabled freely to perform his ope~
rations, and. the latter prepared for the expected
crisis of sleep. A semi-recumbent posture of the
patient is, upon the whole, the most convenient,
the body being, at the same time, so far bent, that
the 'operator can reach, without didiculty, from the
cnownof the head to the toes. Should the patient
be unable to leave his bed, we must endeavour to
place him in a
proper bended position. It is not
necessary that the patient should be completely
undressed, only no silk covering should be allowed
to intervene. »
'
See C. A. F. Kluge, Vernwh einer Darstellung dec Animali-
schen Magnetismus, &c. Berlin, 1815.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 273
The best situation, perhaps, in which a magnetic
patient can be placed, is in an
easy arm-chair, with
his hands resting on the arms, his feet upon a foot-
stool, and his knees bent somewhat forward. The
magnetizer then
'
places himself upon a common
chair, opposite to the patient, and so near as to be
able to enclose his knees within his own, but with-
out designedly touching them.
When the magnetizer has thus placed the patient
and himself in the most convenient attitude, he
proceeds to the manipulations, which are distin-
guished into the preparatory and the agfective. The
preparatory manipulations were
formerly called
placing in connexion or afinity (mettre en rapport,
en luzrmonie) ; denoting that they were employed
for the purpose of establishing such a' sympathy
between the nervous systems' of the magnetizer
and the patient, as should render`the subsequent
operations more certain and effectual.
Some magnetizers, and amongst others Wienholt,
it is said, proceeded at once to the eH`eetive treat-
ment, without any preparation. Kluge, however,
strongly recommendspa contrary method, and, ap-
parently, with good reason; because, otherwise,
especially in the case of very irritable patients, the
preparatory manipulations enable them to endure
the more eH"ective manipulations, which, without
274 xsxmu. unnurrism.
'
such preparation, it isalleged, might be very pain-
ful. .
'llhepreparatory manipulationsare performed in
the following manner. The operator lays hold of
me: shoulders of the .patient with both his hands, in
such a manner that the hills of his thumbs. are
planed in mndthe :other fingers 'rest
upon the shoulders ofzthe Inlhisrpmition
hminntinndl .forwkw mounds, .excites in :himself
the intention of pressing the shoulders together,
and then laying hold offthwupper part of the arms,
glidesfrhvrneto the elbows, tlrriss there for alittle,
md :then proceedsdown to the ;hands,» wherehe. ap-
plies the points of his thumbs tozthoseof the pa-
Rent, .and allowsthe otheriingem to rest».uporn.the
beck of his hands. He then returns, by :means
of the dorsal manipulation (i. e. the hands ibeing
thnown round in a semicircle, inthe manner al-
ready described), to the shoulders, 'and repeatsthe
same
operation two-or three 'times;.after which he
eommemres the effective manipulations, of whieha
general description .hasfalreudy been
No- :person-ought etoattempt the magrnetic<1mest~
nlmt, -unless .he has complied with :the requisite
eonditieuisyor without having previously prepared
himself byfzn attentive study of 'the 'best 'works
which =have been written jon the subject by practi-
l`.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 275
cal authors, such as those of Tardy du_Montravel,
Puysegur, Gmelin, Heinecken, Wienholt, Deleuze,
Kluge, &c. in order that he may thoroughly under-
stand the proper methods, and profit by their ex-
perience, when analogous cases occur in his own
practice.
(276)
CHAPTER XIII.
THE effects produced upon the organism of the
patient, by the operations described in the preced-
ing chapter, are
truly wonderful ; and, considering
the apparent inadequacy of the means employed,
can
scarcely be expected to obtain belief, excepting
from those who have actually experienced or wit-
nessed them. These effects are very various, and
may be divided into two classes. The first consists
of those general elfects, which are produced upon
the entire bodily frame, and which are not merely
periodical, but continue throughout the whole treat-
ment. The second comprehends those which affect
only some
particular functions of the organization,
and which are not constantly manife ted, but only
at certain times, and especially during the mag-
netic manipulations. These last may be reckoned
among the particular effects of Animal Magnetism.
The general effects of Animal Magnetism, which
may be regarded as permanent states of the organi-
zation, and which almost always ,manifest them-
selves, in a
greater or less degree, in all subjects
AN1-MAL MAGNETISM. 277
whose diseases are of such a nature as to indicate
the application of this mode of treatment, and
which, therefore, seem to originate from the sym-
pathyof the whole body, are chiefly the follow-
ing :-
`
.
`
l.A general excitement and strengthening of
the vital functions, without any considerable stimu-
lus, in the nervous, muscular, vascular, and diges-
tive systems. Persons who could not be strength-
ened by corroborant medicines of any kind, have
been restored to health, from a state of great debi-
lity, in a short time, by means of the magnetic
treatment. The application of this remedy quickens
the pulse, produces an increased degree of warmth,
greater sensitive power, and mental chcerfulness.
The appetite and the digestion are increased; the
bowels, which had previously been kept open by
artificial means, now become regular; and the pa-
tient acquires a relish for such kinds of food, as are
good for him, and an aversion from such as are in-
jurious. Animal Magnetism also promotes all the
other secretions. In those constitutional complaints
which are peculiar to the female sex, it is said to
be the most certain, the most powerful, and most
eiiicacious remedy hitherto discovered. The treat-
ment seems to operate principally upon the great
concatenation of sympathetic nerves (the plexusso-
laris), situated in the abdomen, and, by means of
278 Asrun. mieru-znsu.
their various ramifications, to communicate its in-
fluence to the rest of the system.
2. It affords a
gentle stimulus, pervading, gene-
rally, the whole surface of the body, by which all
disturbed harmony and diseased local action are
removed, and the equilibrium again restored. In
this way, Animal Magnetism soothes the most vio-
lent action of the nervous system, the tumult of
the muscles, and the over-exertion of the vital
functions in the whole economy.
8. It draws of the increased vital action from
the diseased parts, and conducts itto others. By
this means,.a twofold advantage is attained. In
the _first place, the excited action, or irritation, is
carried away from the internal and more noble or-
gans to such whose violent action is attended with
less injury to the system; and, in the second place,
the salutary vital action is strengthened and in-
creased in particular debilitated organs. The con-
sequences of the magnetic treatment, therefore, are
-soothing and strengthening. In most instances,
the agitation produced by the diseased orga.niza~
tiontis gradually allayed, until, at length, a
perfect
recovery is efected; because,
4-_ Animal Magnetism occasions a diminution
and total removal of the existing cause of the mor-
bidaction of the nervous-system.
The particular 'effects of Animal Magnetism,
AsNIMAL Macusrxsu. 279
which are not the necessary consequences -of its
application, but only occasionally manifest' them-
selves periodieally, in a greater or lessdegree, in
individual cases, are
exceedingly various, and seem
to depend, in a great measure, upon the peculiar
physical and moral constitution, not only of the
particular patient, but also of the operating mag-
netizer.
It sometimes happens, that no
perceptibleseffect
is produced upon the patient during the magnetic
treatment, of which the eflicacy only appears in
the gradual restoration to health. Dr Passavant
mentions a case of this description which occurred
under his own
eye, where a girl was cured of' St
Vitus's dance in this way, without even
exhibiting
any of the ordinary phenomena of the magnetic
treatment. Wienholt, in a
passage formerly quoted,
informs us, that-similar cases occurred in the course
of his -practice; In most instances, -however, the
magnetic patient experiences a
variety of symptoms
of a nature more or less remarkable. Sovaricus,
indeed, and so
peculiar are these effects of' themap
netic processes, that it appears almost impossible
to arrange or
classify them under any general
heads. Such a classification, it is true, has been
attempted at diferent times by Gmelin, Heineclren,
Wienholt, Hufeland, and others; and Kluge, avail-
ing himselfof the labourssof hispredecessors, has
280 Auxmu. Macusrxsm.
distinguished the phenomena produced by the mag-
netic treatment into six classes; but he admits, at
the same time, that this classification is still a mere
essay, and necessarily imperfect.
This classification, of which I shall presently
give an abstract, follows the order of the different
degrees through which the patient has been ob-
served to pass during the magnetic treatment.
The _first degree presents no
very remarkable
phenomena. The intellect and the senses still re-
tain their usual powers and susceptibilitiesf For
this reason, this first degree has been denominated
the degree of waking.
In the second degree, most of the senses still
remain in a state of activity. That of vision only
is impaired; the eye withdrawing itself gradually
from the power of the will. This second degree,
in which the sensibility is partially disturbed, is,
by some
magnetizers, called the haljlsleep, or the
imperfect crisis.
In the third degree, the whole of the organs,
through the medium of which our
correspondence
with the external world is carried on
(the sense ),
refuse to perform their respective functions, and
the patient is placed in that unconscious state of
existence which is called the magnetic sleep.
In the fourth degree, the patient awakes, as it
were, within himself, and his consciousness re-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 281
turns. He is in a state which can neither be pro-
perly called .sleeping nor waking, but which ap-
pears to 'be something between the two. When in
this state, he is again placed in a very peculiar re-
lation towards the external world, which will be
explained by examples in the sequel. This fourth
degree has been distinguished in the writings of
the animal magnetists by the name of the perféct
crisis, or simple somnambulism. _
In thefifih degree, the patient is placcdin what
is called the state of self-intuition. When in this
situation, he is said to obtain a clear knowledge of
his own internal mental and bodily state;-is en-
abled to calculate, with accuracy, the phenomena
of disease which will naturally and inevitably oc-
cur, and to determine what are their most appro-
priate and eifectual remedies. He is also said to
possess the same
faculty of internal inspection with
regard to other persons who have been placed in
magnetic connexion (en rapport) with him. This
state, also, I shall afterwards have occasion to il-
lustrate by examples. From this fifth degree, all
the subsequent magnetic states are
comprehended
under the denomination of lucidity, or lucid vision
(Fr. Clairvoyance ; Germ. Hellsehen.) .
In the sixth degree, the lucid vision which the
patient possessed in the former degree, becomes
voi.. 1. . A a
282 ABIHAL zlsamrrlsu.
wonderfully increased, and extends to all objects,
near and at a distance, in space and in time : hence
it has been called the deg'ree=of universal luddily.
This exalted tate of the ~faeu1ties,as may easily he
supposed, is comparativelynf veryerareuccurrence;
but some
examples of it, likewise, will #be adduced
hereafter.
No patient, it is said, can reach the higherdegrees
of magnetism, without 'having previously passed
through the lower. Individuals, it is true, are some-
times placed in the higher degrees at the very :tint
magnetic treatment; but they are
supposedhave have
previously passed through the intermediate stages
in so
rapid a manner as rendered it di$ealt, iffnut
impossible, to distinguish the transitions. External
as well as internal influences, not yet sumeiently
ascertained, dispose a
patient, more or less, atpars.
ticular times, toattain a
certaindegree; and hence,
the magnetic sleep is never
permanently the same,
but always variable, depending probably upon the
predisposition of the subject, and other inducing
causes.
*
'
It is a very great mistake of the ignorant to suppose that
the higher states of magnetism can be produced in all indivi-
duals, and at all times, at pleasure. Even simple somnambu-
lism, as a consequence of the magnetic treatment, is compara-
tively rsre, and the more exalted state of Clairvoyance still more
so. It appears to me, likewise, to be a great abuse of the prac-
tice (I suspect too prevalent in France), to aim continually at
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 288
I have thus attempted to describe, as
concisely
as
possible, tbe:processes:employed~in Animal.Mng-
netism, and to point out briefly the .most remark-
able characteristicsymptoms produced by the treat-
ment. I am
quite aware that what I have said
upon this branch of the subject will be-considered
unsatisfactory by the inquisitive student. But, for
reasons
already adduced, it would have been very
inconvenient forme to have entered into -any far-
ther details. I have still a great deal of curious
information to 'lay before the public, which, as it
must be new to many, and will, I have no doubt,
appear very extraordinary to all, I am anxious to
state at some length; the more
especially, because
many of the facts, the existence of which I propose
to demonstrate by evidence, .have been roundly.and
confidently denied by very eminent scientific men;
and besides, I consider these facts as not only of
great importance in themselves, but as well suited
ibr inductive investigation.
But before I proceed to this. branch of my sub-
ject, it may he proper for me to make a few obser-
vatiom upon the .theory put forth by the iirst
French Commissioners, .in order to account for the
the production of Somnambuiism, and the- development of its
higher phenomena. The 'primary object, in every magnetic
treatment, ought to be the cure of disease, to which every thing
else should be held subordinate. Experiments of mere curio-
lty should 'be`ss much ss possible avoided.
284' Annual. macnsrlsnr.
phenomena of Animal Magnetism, which appear
to have been framed with such consummate art,
skill, and plausibility, as to have imposed uponall
those learned and scientific men who were 'igno-
rant of this peculiar subject, and, in a
great de-
gree, to have checked, for a season, all serious in-
vestigation into the matter.
This theory ascribed the whole of the magnetic
phenomena to imagination, imitation, and attouclw-
ment.
The last element of this theory is at once over-
thrown by the single decisive fact, that all the mag-
netic phenomena are frequently produced without
touching the patient at all.
The influence of the imagination, and of the
imitative principle, seem at first sight-and at
first sight only-much more
capable of affording
an
adequate explanation of the facts; but the ac-
tivity of these principles is rejected as absurd by
every practical magnetizer, as well as by every in-
telligent opponent of the system ;-in short, by
every person who knows any thing of the matter;
and besides, a
great many, if not all of the pheno-
mena, will be found, upon due consideration, to be
of such a nature, that they cannot be rationally
accounted for upon any such theory. Sleep, for
example, is a very common effect of the magnetic
treatment; and I shouldlike to be informed whe-
al
ANIMAL Mscumlsu. 285
ther sleep, in any instance, can be produced by ex-
citing the imagination, or
by imitation, where, as
in the case of the solitary treatment, there is no-
thing to imitate. Even Dr Stieglitz, an
opponent,
whose work appeared so
long ago as the year 1814-,
ridicules the idea of attempting to trace the mag-
netic phenomena to any such sources.
"
A great
multitude of facts," says the Doctor,
"
which, al-
lowing for some little variation in the more mi-
nute shades, still coincide in the most essential
points, force complete conviction upon us. The
number of credible observers who attest them, and
whose representations bear the stamp of truth, has
increased so much within the last twenty or thirty
years, in many parts of France, Germany, and
Switzerland, as to overthrow all scepticism on the
subject,"-P.1'7.
"
Have those seized the right
point of view, who ascribe all these phenomena to
the influence of a diseased imagination, or to the
excitement of sexual passion? The partizans of
Animal Magnetism have a
right to complain, when
their antagonists attempt to annihilate many vo-
lumes of observations with these turns and tirades,
eternally repeated, although long since refuted.
Indeed, this is merely to seek an outlet for escape;
-to withdraw, in the most convenient manner,
from the investigation of truth;-to prevent our
apathetic repose from being rudely disturbed, by
286 RNIMAL MAGNETISM. -
adopting shallow hypotheses, which are totally in-
applicable to the subject ;-and to party of attacks
upon preconceived opinions, which we are' neither
willing to abandon, nor
seriously to-defend." *
"
Imagination and sensual excitement," 'says the
celebrated Dr Hufeland, "
are not the causes-of
these phenomena; for we have decisive facts to
prove, that the effects have appeared witlaontthe
slightest co-operation of the imagination, andfthat
persons of the same sex have producedthem upon
each other." To the same effect, 'the learned
' "
In the times of ignorance, superstition laid hold of all
phenomena., and without searching Rrr their real- causes, every
thing was ascribed to the immediate agency of Divine Power,
or to the intervention of the devil. At present, the imagina-
tion plays nearly the same part; and in physiology it is consi-
dered as the cause of all that appears to be otherwise inexpli-
cable. The best established facts are, at first, declared to be
gross errors, and when, at length, they have become incontest-
able, they are attributed to the imagination; but no one is ca-
pable of explaining in what manner this spiritual faculty pro-
duces the physical results.
"
Science, however, teaches us
nothing, when it endows the
imagination with supernatural powers; and the truth is, that,
in doing so, it merely changes the name of something that is
unknown. Ignorance concealed under another word is still ig-
norance, and the accumulation of phenomena adds little to our
knowledge, so long as none ofthem are explained.
"
Imaginary hypotheses can never hold the place of truth,
nor dispense with the necessity of investigation."-Cusanm.,
Esaai de Psychologie physiologique. Paris, l83l.
It ls rather remarkable that Dr Stieglitz, although he op-
poses the general introduction of Animal Magnetism into me-
dicine, strongly recommends its application in all dssperale cases.
ANIMAL umunrxsu. 287
Sprengel observes, in his Institutions gf Medicine,
that the imagination of the patientis-neverlobserved
to be increased previous to the manifestation of the
phenomena, and that the effects are not diifereut
in those persons who have entertained the greatest
doubts regarding the eiicacy of the treatment,
and in those who never heard a word about it;
"
Hence," says he,
"
I hold it to be clear that the
imagination has nothing to do in the production 'of
these phenomena; and this is confirmed by Gmelin,
who relates that magnetic patients have frequently
witnessed convulsions in otherswithoutbeing them-
selves aifected in a similar manner."
Sprengel also mentions 'another decisive fact in
regard to the alleged influence of the imagination
in the magnetic process-snfaot well -knownlto all
practical magnetisers. It is simplythis,-thatifwe
attempt to manipulate in contrary directions, the
'
Ea autem methodus quosnam effeetus QlNll.lBlf, dictu est
mirabile. Plerique jucumdas habent B8'l|lldDl\¢! blandi caloris
aut etdam anne quasi deacendentis pernervgs. Neque unquam
imagimtio ante accelsum eum augetur :
neque aliter se habent ii
effectus in hominibus, qui vel maxime de e$cacia earumtne-
tationum dubitavemnt, neque alios videbis in iis, qui nunquam
de ea re quidquam audiverunt. Unde imaglnationem profecto
nihil posse, ut ea
phenomena nawmmr, explontum habco;
quod condrmstum ab Eberhardo Gmelino hge, qui magnetism
eo imbutos refert mpc convukivos aliorum adfectus conspexile
sine ulla noxa.-Sprengel; Institut. Medicina, tom. ii. p. MII,
sect. 898.
288 Amman Maeuarxsm.
usual effects will not be produced, whilst others
of a
totally different nature will be manifested!
A great deal has been occasionally said with re-
gard to the dangers that may arise from the prac-
'
Maxime autem veritatem ejus methodi et ohservatorum
candorem probat constantissimus contrariorum tractuum eifec-
tus. Quodsi enim vel frictionem vel etiam imaginationem ac-
cusaveris, neutra agere in contrariis contrariorum tractuum ef-
fectibus potest. Pallor enim subitaneus, et frigus, et nervorum
distentio, nunquam a frictione simili, contrariis duntaxat tracti-
bus suscepta, oriri possunt.-Sprengel; Institut. Medicina, tom.
ii. p. 805, sect. 398. -
Among the numerous doctrinal writers and practical magne.
tizers, the only one whom I have found, in recent times, ad-
hering to the theory of imagination, and of imagination alone,
is M. Bertrand, who publishedawork upon Animal Magnetism
in 1826. But so far as I can perceive, M. Bertrand seems to
know nothing of the magnetic treatment as a sanative process;
he appears to consider it merely as a means of producing son-|_
nambulism. Quant ii moi, says he, je crois au.: phenomena du
somnambulisme, el j'ec1-is ce Iiure powr prouver que le magnetisme es!
une pure ohimere. It is rather difiicult exactly to comprehend
what M. Bertrand really means; but so far as his opinions can
be guessed at, they are directly at variance with those of every
other individual who has a competent knowledge of the subject.
I may be permitted to observe, that the opinions of Dr
Sprengel, upon this question, are the more valuable, not only on
account of his great leaming and high reputation, but in conse-
quence of the circumstance, that he was
originally a sceptic in
regard to Animal Magnetism, and wrote a small work against it,
but subsequently became a convert to the doctrine; which, in-
deed, with few exceptions, is now universally admitted by all
the most eminent physicians and physiologists upon the Conti-
nent. _In Germany we know only a
single disbeliever of the
facts of magnetism, among several opponents of the practice.
That disbeliever is Rudolphi. And what are his arguments ?
mann. Massa-rism. 289
tice of Animal Magnetism; but these dangers are,
in a
great measure, chimerical; they could only be
apprehended from thcignoraut and unskilful appli-
cation of the treatment; auduothing of the kind
is to be dreaded from the present improved prac-
tice. In the hands of the intelligent physician, who
knows how to employ it, it isa safe and most effec-
tual remedy in many diseases. Upon this subject,
Dr Ziermann observes, that "
if, in theearlier
magnetic associations, the storm, once excited, was
allowed to rage, in the nervous
system, in uncon-
trolled convulsions-if the salutary activity of na-
ture was cherished into a destructive organic tu-
mult; it was, indeed, very meritorious to put a
stop
to these extravagances and abuses, and to warn the
public against them. Here, however, the blame is
not imputable to magnetism, but to the ignorance
sud imprudence of those, who, without medical
knowledge, or without a suilicient acquaintance
with the new method, attempted the cureof diseases
by its means; and a great part of the abuses and
mischiefs of all kinds, which must necessarily have
arisen from this cause, as well as from the illusions
under which enthusiasts, and others entertaining
false and exaggerated views, plied this occupation,
is to be ascribed to those, who, although best qua-
lified by their attainments to direct this important
vol.. x. B b
290 Anwar. nncawrisu.
business, stood altogether alootl As soon as the
intelligent physician avails himself of this method
of cure, as soon as it is wrested outof the hands of
the unprofessional, there is as little danger to be
apprehended from it, as from the poisons and sur-
gical instruments which we are in the daily prac-
tice of employing."
Au opinion in some
respects similar to that of
Dr Ziermann, upon the subject of Animal Magna.
tism, was expressed by the late Mr Dugald Stewart,
in one of the last of those valuable works with
which he enriched the philosophical literature of his
country. The ingenious professor appears to have
been well aware of the irresistible weight of the
evidence which had been adduced in favour of the
facts ; but had he been better acquainted with the
magnetic treatment, and the nature of the pheno-
mena, his candid mind would certainly have led
him to reject that absurd and exploded theory, up-
on which, along with the first French Commission-
ers, he attempted to account for the facts.
"
Among all the phenomena, however," says Mr
Stewart, "
to which the subject of imitation has
led our attention, none are, perhaps, so wonderful
as those which have been recently brought to light,
in consequence of the philosophical inquiries oc_
casioned by the medical pretensions of Mesmer
and hi associates. That these pretensions in-
asxnax. uaemarxsu. 29|
volved much of ignorance, or of imposture, or of
both, in their authors, has, I think, been fully de-
monstrated in the very able -report of
4
the French
academicians; but does it follow from thi; that the.
facts witnessed and authenticated by these acade-
micians should share in the digrace incurred by
the em
pirics who disguised or misrepresented them?
For my own part, it appears to me, that the gene-
ral conclusions established by Mesmer's practice,
with respect to the physical eifects of the principle
of imitation and ofthe faculty of imagination (more
particularly in cases where they operate together),
are
incomparably more curious, than if he had ae-
tually demonstrated the existence of his boasted
iiuid. Nor can I see any good reason why a
phy-
sician, who admits the eiiicacy of the moral agents
employed by Mesmer, should, in the exercise of his
profession, scruple to
copy whatever processes are
necessary for subjecting them to his command, any
more than he would hesitate about employing a
new physical agent, such as
electricityor galvanism.
The arguments to the contrary, alleged by the
Commissioners, only shew that the influence of ima-
gination and of imitation is susceptible of a great
abuse in ignorant or in wicked hands ;-and may
not the same
thing be said of all the most valuable
remedies we
possess ? Nay, are not the mischiev-
ous
consequences which have actually been occa-
292- lzuuu. MAGNETISH.
sioned by the pretenders to Animal Magnetism,
the strongest of all encouragements to attempt such
an examination of the principles upon which the
effects really depend, as may give to' scientific prac-
titioners the management of agents so
peculiarly
efficacious and overbearing ? Is not this mode of
reasoning perfectly analogous to that uponwhich
medical inquirers are accustomed to proceed, when
they discover any new substance possessed of poi-
sonous qualities? Is not this considered as _a strong
presumption, at least, that it is capable of being
converted into a
vigorous remedy, if its appropriate
and specific disorder could only be traced; and has
it not often happened,'that the prosecution of this
idea has multiplied the resources of the 'healing
art ?"*
l
'
Element: of the Philoaophyofthe Human Mind ; vol. iii. 4t<x.
London, 1827. Pp. 221, 222.
It is, perhaps, not generally known, that besides the reports
of which I have spoken, the Commissioners presented a secret
report to the Minister of State, in which they represented Lies-
merism in the worst possible colours, and as extremely dan-
gerous in a moral point of view. The Commissioners did not
publish this report themselves, but it afterwards found its way
to the press. It is full of exaggeration; and, at all events, to-
tally inapplicable to Animal Magnetism as nowpractised.
( 293 )
CHAPTER XIV.
IN the preceding chapters, I have given my
readers an account of the early history of`the mag-
netic opinions and practices-of the origin and
progress of Animal Magnetism; audpl have also
endeavoured to make them suiliciently acquainted
with the nature of the processes, as well as of all
those appearances vvhicb generally present them-
selves during the treatment adopted by Mesmer
and his
disciples. Of these last, as may have been
observed, Sleep-although by no means an invari-
able consequence of the magnetic manipulations,
nor
essentially necessary to their sanative eliicacy
-is by far the most common; and it usually ma-
nifests itself, after a longer or shorter period, ac-
cording tonthe degree of energy possessed by the
operator, or the greater or less susceptibility of the
patient, or in consequence of a combination of both
causes. It is proper to mention, however, that, in
the opinion of all the experienced practical mag-
netizers, this artificial sleep is something 'very dif-Q
ferent from the natural; and I conceive it is quite
294- ANlM'AL Maonlrxsm.
impossible to witness, with attention and discrimi-
nation, one or more cases of the kind, without be-
ing satisfied of the reality of this distinction! It
'
Amongst a
variety of other instances, the following case,
reported by M. Deleuze, is quite _decisive of the ihct above
stated, besides presentingisome serious difilculties to those who
are still disposed to adhere to the exploded imagination hypo-
thesis.
`
"
I was called in to magnetize a child ofeleven years ofage,
who wasvery ill, andwhom I hadthegood mmmsmmemar
s
treatment of two months. At the third sitting,
somnambulist; and two days I produoedrsomnam-
bulism in an mmm. As my other avocations aid not
me to visit my patient during the day,4at'tl|e mdofmiwék I
agreed with her parents to see her every evening at
nineoelqek,
and to magnetize her during her sleep. When' I arrived, the
cum, wh.. nsdbeenmbeanm between men ma-ugnwelosf,
had Qllen asleep, and her sleep wano sound that no noisegciald
awaken her; she could even be shahen without interrupting her
repose. After talking for some time with her parents, I 'ap-
proached the bed of the patient, stretched my hand over her,
and in one minute she passed into somnambulism. She
answered my questions-she told me how I ought to magnetize
her-she announced to me what symptom she should experience
next day, and pointed out what remedies_ I ought to give har.
When the sitting had continued a quarter of an hour, she said,
'
You must awaken me.' I answered,
'
You were when
I came-go to sleep again."
'
That is impossible] she replied;
'
I cannot pass from the state in which I now am to the nataual
sleep; and this state, if too much prolonged, would do me
I` then awakened her with a single gesture. She wished us all
good night, and turning her head on the pillow, tell asleep again.
The same
phenomenon was
repeated every day fhr six weeks.'?
_Dqfmu du Mayfwh Anim. p. 154.
I V I
M. Deleuze mentions several other instances in which the
ssmethiagocéurred. V
~»
A
» -
ANIMAL MAGNETISUA 295
appears to be the result of an entirely peculiar state
of the organism-an affection sui generis-and, if
not identical with, at least to bear a close analogy
to, that state of somnolency, which is frequently
found to precede the somnambulistic or ecstatic
crisis. Indeed, in a
variety of instances, this arti-
ficial or magnetic sleep passes into actual Somnam-
bulism--a state in which, as will be seen in the
sequel, while the corporeal organs are
apparently
dormant, and insensihle to extemal impressions,
the patient still possesses the power of speech and
of locomotion; there frequently occurs a vicarious
transference of the functions of the faculties to difl
ferent parts of the nervous system ;' while both
'lsmawtrethatthisi|oneofthemostextr|ordinary,an|l,to
thcsecucquainted withtheevidcnce, one ofthemostincredibie
factsof which 1 lmve undertaken todemnnstratetlneoccasimel
occurrence. I sm also aware that allour most eminent phyda-.
loglstl ue of opinion that the thingie impoulble. I quote the
following pusagefrom Dr Roget's Bridgewater 1'nati|a(vol. ii.
p. 375, note).
"The crednlityof the public has sometimes beenimposed
upcnbyperaonswho pretendedtoseebymeansoftheirilngen:
thus. at Liverpool, the celebrated Mila M'Avoy contrived ima
l&8d|lBt0@flI|§Elgl'§ZllllIlb8¥d' llulIl|lBI¢ll1]
pceasedthllmirecnlouspower. Eqnmllylnanrtbgqfonditlcdl
thedoriu ofpenonc, under the inyiuenal 41 Animal Mcguinn,
uahpmnaaadvmuuuu pu»fd»ua»¢s, ummm
pdgaiaboolcapplidbthnhnovortladuyul."
Now,thhhnmenddln-enophbneppaodmamnltilak
of well observed hots; and however high my reqnet- for Dr
Rcget's-talents endecquinmcnu, lkllll pardon me busy.
296 numu. MAGNETISM.
the senses and the intellectual faculties appear to
be exercised with an
extraordinary degree of deli-
cacy, vigour, and acnteness. This state of Som-
nambulism is sometimes more, sometimes less, per~
fectly developed; a circumstance which probably
ing that there is an authority which I am disposed, in all ques-
tions of this kind, to estimate much higher than his-the autho-
rity of Nature. Amicus_PIato, &,c. Even did the possibility of
this and other phenomena depend upon the
authority of man's
judgment, I could oppose to the opinion of Dr Roget, those of
men whose names, without any disparagement even to that
learned gentleman, may be placed at least upon a level with his
-the names of La Place, Cuvier, Petetin, Puysegur, Deleuze,
Wienholt, Hufeland, Olbers, Treviranus, Reil, Sprengel, Schel-
ling, Eschenmayer, Kieser, Nasse, and a multitude of others,
equally competent to observe the phenomena of nature, and
equally incapable of misrepresenting the facts they witnessed.
1 always thought the alleged detection of Miss M'Avoy's pre-
tended imposture, to say the least of it, exceedingly douhtfhl ;
and I have occasion to know that many eminent professional
men, who took no
part in the discussion, were of the same
opi.
nion.
I would respectfully remind Dr Roget ofthe expressions made
use of by himself; in a
passage formerly quoted from his other-
wise admirable, and truly philosophical Bridgewater Treatin-
"
In place of the simple combinations of elements, and the
simple properties of mineral bodies, all organic structures, even
the most minute, present exceedingly complicated arrangements,
and a prolonged succession of phenomena, so varied and so ano-
malous, as to be utterly irreducible to the known laws which
govem inanimate matter."
Finally, I would humbly request Dr Roget to examine the
evidence I have adduced in this publication, and then to state
whether and how far his prima facie opinion has been modined
by a consideration of the facts; or whether he requires still far.
ther evidence-and of what nature, and to what amount.
ANIMAL macunrism. 297
depends partly upon constitutional causes, and
partly, as in the case of the magnetic sleep, upon
the energy of the operator, and the susceptibility
of the patient.
In order to enable my readers fully to compre-
hend, and duly to appreciate, the very extraordi-
nary facts which I shall presently have occasion
to _bring under their notice, it is indispensahly na
cessary that they should have paid great attention to
the inferior and more ordinary phenomena of Ani-
mal Magnetism, and their several gradations ; and
also that they should make themselves acquainted
with those analogous cases, which occur in the ge-
neral medical practice; otherwise, their situation
would resemble that of persons brought suddenly
out of total or
comparative darkness into a bril-
liantly illuminated picture-gallery, where their eyes
might be dazzled _and their judgment confounded;
but they would be, for some time, incapable of en-
during the light, or of distinguishing the surround-
ing objects. Every doctrine of extensive applica-
tion has its alphabet, its rudiments, its grammar;
and to attempt to introduce individuals at once,
and without any previous preparation, to the phe-
nomena manifested in the higher stages of Som.
namhulism, would he pretty much the same thing
as if we were to request them to read some diili»
cult pages of a
particular volume, before they had
298 ANINAL mAc1~u:'rxsu.
learnt the language in whichit- was-written,=.u¢ to
require them to solve a
complicated- prohlemein the
highernmthematical analysis, while they werestill
ignorant of the elementary rules of arithmetic. I
am themore earnest in insisting upon the neees-
sity el' this preparatory study, because 1' lllV0"gBl~
uerally found that a great proportion' of 'thefununa
lightened in" regard tb therealityof the
-facts of Animal Magnetism, however slearnetbiu
other matters, have invariably been- dispeseilwo
listen upon some of the .higher and-more extraora
Hilary phenomena of Somnamhulismyivhiehv they
at_;oace, and in consummate ignorance of the subs
ject, pronounce to be impossible and incredible;
while they, at the same
time,~attempt'to<holdfnp
allthose who have carefully investigated the mate-
ter, examined the evidence, and ascertained the
truth of the facts, to the contempt and derision of
mankind. I trust that there is not one of my
readers in the predicament I have just described.
I would hope that, from serious attention to the
preceding chapters of this publication, accompani-
ed, with private study and investigation, they 'us
may fully prepared to follow me to the oomiderm
tion of still more striking though reoondiie truths,
which, without such initiation, they would -pro-
hilhly have regarded with the utmost incredulity.
,
.
But, in order to dispel any lurking Ilillllif
ANIMAL ruuusrrsu. 290
suspicious scepticism, which may still'-weigh upon
the minds of those to whom these pages arend-
dressed, and to convince them that thephenomenu
to he hereafter submitted to their attention are noi
mere inventions of the professors of Animalililg-
netism, I propose first to hring|mder.their.natioe
an
analogous class of facts, many of which Udo
observed longhefore the introduetionlqf the _mags
netic treatment, and all of them without any.-rip
ference, to that discovery: ~I allude. to-the phenot
mana of the natmsal. Somnambulism. Q . :=.»:
-somnambulasmmm all who have -mquinaa -signs
thefsubjeot are probably aware-~ oqnstitutessrveny
uncommon, ands very peculiar state of.tha~lmms|
organism! Fortunatclyyslthoughofpompantivdy
rare oeeurrence, many well authenticated and'mi»
'
Dr Bertrand, in his treatise On Sosummbulispuydiltin-
guishes, I think correctly, 'fhur species of that exirnordinsry
sihetlm a lst, The ascntid (idiopathic P) scumsmhnllsm, which
occsdonslly takes place in some individuals, othenrlse apps-
rently healthy, during their ordinary sleep, in consequence of
s. the nervous sy!hm`(1V6cta|ibu'.
lim) a idly, The qssptasudiv, which is sometimes olnervcdsno
oecurdurlngthe courseofcertaindisessesnndlsconsideredss
s symptom or crlsls ofthe complslnta Bdly, The which
fceqdsntly occurs ss a
consequence of the magnetic trestmenig
snd, Lthly, The dllhlid, which is produced by a
high exsltstion
of the mind, and becomes infectious by inntstion, in such per-
sons ss are predisposed and subjected to the same influences.
Ofthis lest speclegthe devotional ccsamdslsperhsps the nies!
fi-equont, and the most remarkable
' ' '
'
800 ANIMAL Macrwrisu.
nutely observed instances of the natural somnam-
bulism are
upon record; and they present pheno-
mena so remarkable, and so
interesting in many
important points of view, that, since my attention
was first directed to this curious subject, I have
frequently wondered how it could happen that they
should have been so long overlooked, disregarded,
or, at least, left without sufficient investigation, by
physicians and physiologists. I can
only account
for this extraordinary neglect upon the principle,
that these facts were little calculated to afford their
support to the prevalent systems of a material and
mechanical physiology ;-systems which, I appre-
hend, must crumble in pieces, when, guided by the
torch of truth, we shall have explored, with greater
care and exactness, the more secret phenomena of
Nature
Somnambulists,* or
sleep-walkers, are
persons
who, apparently in a state of profound sleep, rise
from their beds at night, traverse the most inac-
cessible places without awaking, and successfully
perform the most delicate and diliicult operations,
whether intellectual or mechanical; and all this in
the dark, and frequently with their eyes closed, as
'
I use the words nmnambulim and aonmambulizt as gene.
ric terms, to denote :leap-talker: as well as deep-walkers. This,
perhaps, is not strictly correct, but it is very convenient. The
affections are of the same nature, and frequently found in com-
bination. .
t
V
KNIMAL MAGNETISML 30l~
in the ordinary state of sleep. It has been ob-
served, also, that individuals, while in this state,
occasionally manifest a
superior knowledge of sub-
jects and of languages, which they had not pre-
viously studied, so asto remember them, or with
which they had been but imperfectly acquainted.
It is likewise a` striking peculiarity of thi state of
existence, that, upon awaking, the individual who
had thus insensibly performed all these operations,
retains no recollection of anything that passed while
he was under the influence of somnambulism.
,It is worthy of notice, too, that the acts of the
somnambulist are almost always performed with a
degree of freedom, boldness, and precision, supe-
rior to what he manifests when awake; and that
he generally succeeds in accomplishing every thing
he attempts. So far as I am aware, there is no
instance of a somnambulist awaking spontaneous-
ly in the midst of any operation he has once nn-
dertaken; nor of his perishing amidst the dangers
which he frequently encounters. There are, it is
true, many instances of somnambulists who have
perished, in consequence of having been suddenly
awakened by the imprudent alarm of the witnesses
of those perils to which they were
apparently ex-
posed ; but the general experience of all times
seems to lead us to the conclusion, that the som-
namhulist is guided by other senses or instincts-
808 annum. Msssnnsu.
A
I
that he is ,protected from injury by other means
and guarantees of security than these bywhioh his
conduct is regulated in his ordinary waking state.
So long as he is left undisturbed in his proceed-
ings, he acts fearlessly, and is safe; 'a sudden awa-
kening alone, byrestoring him to his natural state,
and depriving him of the protection of that in-
stinct which governed his actions, causes him to
perish.
`
.
In somnambulism, when the crisis, as it i some-
times called, is perfect, the functions of the cor-
poreal sensitive organs seem to be entirely sus-
pended, and the soul, or internal sense, is found
to energise, if 'I may be allowed the expression,
independently of the body. Such, at least, is the
only adequate explanation we can
give of the facts,
untilsome philosopher shall find himself enabled
to account for them satisfactorily upon some more
material phy iological principle. In this state,
too, there occasionally occurs that most extraordi-
nary, that apparently unaccountable phenomenon,
already alluded to-the vicarious transference of
the faculties from their appropriate organs to other
parts of the nervous system ;-a phenomenon,
than which there is nothing more marvellous and
incredible, yet nothing more
clearly and conclu-
sively demonstrated within the whole circle of the
magnetic doctrines-I may say, within the entire
numar. uaessrxsu. 805
limits of science# From sllthis, it seems clear,
that the somnambulist is placed in estate of exist-
'
I lately quoted a dictum of Dr Roget's upon this subject,
upon which I took the liberty of making a few observations;
and I must now use the same freedom in commenting upon
some
passages of Sir Charles Bell's Bridgewater Treatise, which,
although in s more indirect manner, seem calculated to throw
discredit upon the that alluded to in the text.
Sir Charles lays down the proposition,
"
that one organ of
sense can never become the substitute for another, so as to ex-
cite inthe mind the same idea. When an individual isdeprived
of the organs of sight, no power of attention, or continued ef-
fort of the will, or exercise of the other senses, can make him
enjoy the class of sensations which is lost. The sense of touch
may be increased in an exquisite degree ; but, were it true, as
has been asserted, that individuals can discover colours by the
touch, it could only be by feeling a
change upon the surface of
the stuii, and not by any perception of the colour. It has been-
my painful duty to attend on persons who have pretended
blindness, and that they could see with their fingers. But I
have ever found, that, by a deviation from truth in the Hrst
instance, they have been entangled in a tissue of deceit; and
have at last been forced into admissions which demonstrated
their folly and weak inventions." Again :-" Experiment
proves, what is suggested by anatomy, that not only the or-
gans of the senses are appropriated to particular classes of sen.
nations, but that the nerves, intermediate between the brain
and the outward organs, are respectively capable of receiving
no other sensations but such as are adapted to their particular
organs."
Now, I have neither inclination, ability, nor interest, to con-
trovert these propositions of Sir Charles Bell; and I am bound
to believe that he has fairly stated the results of his experience.
But these propositions can have no effect in invalidating the
fact I have stated, because the conditions are not the same.
The observations of Sir Charles, I presume, apply to the onli-
nary state of existence. But the Animal Magnetista assert
804 Amman maeuarxsm.
ence completely diierent from the ordinary life,
and the physiological principles, therefore, which
are
applicable to the one, are
totally inapplicable
to the other. In the one case, we see the soul and
body acting in unison, although we
may be' inca-
pable of perceiving the link that connects them;
in the other, the corporeal functions disappear,
-and I have undertaken to demonstrate-that there is an ex-`
Iraardiaarg state of existence, called.._ properly or improperly
-Sonmambulbm, in which' the phenomenon in question, amongt
others, is occasionally manifested. They do not allege that one
organ of sense ever becomes the substitute for another; but that,
in the state alluded to, the corporeal organs sometimes become
totally inseusible, and that their functions are exercised in some
peculiar manner, being apparently transferred to other parts of
the system. Should I be fortunate enough to convince Sir
Charles Bell of the reality of this lisct, we Animal Magnetists
would be delighted to have his valuable assistance in enahling
us to unravel the mystery, by endeavouring to explain the
causes and conditions of these extrordinary phenomena.
Dr Bertrand, who, according to his own
expression, regards
Animal Magnetism as
"
a pure chimera," tells us that he was
for a
long time sceptical with regard to this iiact of the trans-
ference of the faculties, even after he had witnessed several ex-
amples of it; and the grounds of his scepticism were similar to
those of Dr Roget, Sir Charles Bell, and all our eminent phy-
siologists-because, without doing apparent violence to reason,
the phenomena could only be explained upon the supposition of
chance or deception. Upon a minute investigation of the evi-
dence, however, the Doctor's scepticism vanished, and no doubt
of the reality of the fact remained in his mind.-See Btn-
rnntn, p. 445, &c.
If our own physiologists would lay aside all prejudice, and
condescend to a similar investigation, I am satisded it would
lend to a similar result."
Amman MAGNETISM. 305
and life assumes a character almost entirely spil
ritual. The one state maybe denominated organic
#the other-instinctive life. In the former state,
our knowledge is acquired through the instrumen-
tality of certain intermediate organs of sense ; in
the latter, it appears to be obtained 'by means of
some
species of more immediate intuitionl* .
In an
Appendix to the first edition of this publi-
cation, I brought forward abundance of~
evidence
with the view of demonstrating the extraordinary
fact of the occasional transference of the faculties
in certain states of the organism. While engaged
°
In their state of olairuoyanoe, the magnetic patients may
be said 'to feel, rather than to ua. Fischer's somnambulist as-
sured him that he saw his internal parts, but not aswith the
eyes; but he could not describe the manner in which he per-
ceived them. Frederic I-lufeland's patient said, only in the
highest degree of lucidity, "
I nu" at other times, she gene-
rally used the expression,
"
Ifeel" this or that part, this or that
change, &c. Gmelin's patient, too, said she did _not see, but
ful, and with great delicacy, both intemally and externally; and
Scherb's patient declared, that, in the magnetic sleep, the sensu
tions were rather those of feeling than of sight; and that the
feeling, during that state, was~much mom acute and delicate
than when awake.-See KLUGI, pp. 283, 284;
'
`
A corroborution of these views may also be derived from the
following curious declaration of Dr Despine's cataleptic patient.
"
You think," said she to those who had placed themselves en
rapport with, her,
"
that I don't -know what passes around me
every evening; but you are mistaken. I see nothing, but I
feel something which makes an impression upon me, but which
I cannot expl|in."_8ee Bxaranrn, p. 461, Nou. A
_
vol.. 1. _ _
c c'
806 Aumu. umusrxsm.
in collecting' that evidence, I found nc waist, but
tether a
redundancy of materials. ~
I found myuelf
who very much in the same slnultien with-theim
genlous Frenchman, who complainedcf the eibuw
raadcrichesces ; md might, with some lidve
exclaimed, in the words of 'the poet, IIQQIQC
copiajécit; I am
poor in the midstof abundance.
For this reason, I conceived it suiiicieut to ndduce
only the most striking and best authenticated? ia-
stances; omitting all such as did not bear so di-
rectly upon the point at issue, as had notbcenib
carefully and so minutely observed, or did Mit rest
upon equally good authority. ,
g
,
I have occasion to know, that the evillvlwé $5011
brought forward was considered pretty conclusive
as to the fact, by many persons in every
well qualified to appreciate its force; although I
am aware that thewhole subject-like everything
else relating to Animal Magnetism-has been
treated with levity and ridicule by many others,
equally ignorant, incredulous, and incompetent.
Some time subsequent to the publication alluded
to, however, I remembered that, several years be-
fore, I had, for a totally different purpose, made a
pretty ample collection of the most interesting and
best authenticated instances ofthe natural Somnam-
bulism; and it occurred to me that it might be of
use to search for and examine this collection, with
ANIMAL Meeunrxsu. 807
a view to discover whether it contained any thing
that could confer additional strength upon the co-
gent evidence already adduced in support of the
reality of the very curious facts of which I had en-
deavoured to demonstrate the manifese
tation. Having succeeded in my search, I was a
geoddeal surprised, thonglrplossed, toind that,
in almost everyone 'of these eases, the facts of the
inseneibility of the corporeal organs, ,and of the
trmetbrence of the faculties, -had 'beeumore or less
distinctly observed. I have -since been enableddo.
add several very interesting raeentnasesmf a pb
fectly uniform character, almost all of which have
been reported with great accuracy by professional
men. The discovery of the manifestation of the
remarkable phenomena in question appears to have
been almost always made by mere accident-they
are seldom brought very prominently forward-
and scarcely any attempt is made to account for
them, excepting upon the strange and inadmissible
hypothesis, that the organ of one sense supplies the
place and performs the functions of others. Such
an
hypothesis, indeed,-if otherwise admissible-»
even did it meet the facts, which it evidently does
not, is quite as
mysterious and incomprehensible as
that of the actual transference of the faculties to
different parts of the nervous system, besides being
308 ANIMAL MAGNITISM.
incapable, like the latter, of afording an
adequate
explanation of the phenomena.
'
I am, therefore, about to draw my readers aside
from Animal Magnetism for a short while, for the
purpose of laying before them a
variety of instances
of the natural Somnambulism; from which, I think,
it will fully appear, that the phenomena which have
excited so much incredulity, and even ridicule, are
by no means
peculiar to the magnetic treatment,
nor the mere inventions of individuals professing,
and anxious to establish, a
peculiar system of doc-
trines, but have been frequently known to oceur
spontaneously, in certain abnormal states of the or~
ganism. _
.
<S<w>e
CHAPTER XV.
n
SOMNAMBULISM appears to have been known to
the ancients, and has been noticed by Hippocrates,
Aristotle, Galen, and others. It is only in' the
works of modern authors, however, that we 'find
minute and accurate descriptions of its pheno-
mena.
Van Helmont tells us, that, when at college, be
slept in the same room with one of his comrades,
who was
subject to somnambuli m. He rose du-
ring the night, took the key of the garden, went
and walked in places where he ran the risk of fali~
ing; then returned and replaced the key in a
press,
as he would have done when awake in broad day-
light. One evening, Van Helmont got possession
of the key, without being perceived by his com-
rade, and carefully concealed it; but as soon as
the other became somnambulist, he went to seek it
in the place where it had been hid, and took it
without hesitation, ns if he had placed it there
himself!
'
'
Van Helmont, Da ortu Fonnarum, sect. 52.
310 smuu. lucusrxsu.
I-Iorstius, in his well lrnown work, relates, that
a
young noblernan in the citadel of Brenstein was
observed by his brother, who occupied the same
room, to rise in his sleep, put on his cloak, and
having opened the casement, to mount, by the help
of a
pulley, to the roof of the building. There he
was seen to tear in pieces a
magpie`s nest, and wrap
the young birds in his cloak. He returned-tabis
apartment, and went to bed, having placed his
cloak by him with the birds in it._ In the llqrn-
iug he awoke, and related the adventure as
occurred in a dream, and was greatly surprised
when he was led to the roof of the tower and shawn
the remainsiof _the nest, aswell as the magpies con-
cealed in his cloak. This individual would appear
to have been in a slate of imperfect somnamhulisn,
otherwise he would have reoollected nothing of the
circumstances when he awoke.
Henricus ab,Heer mentions the case of a stu-
dentiat a German university, who, having been
very intent on the composition of some verses,
which he oould not complete to his satisfaction,
rose in his sleep,_and opening his desk, sat down
with great earnestnen to renew his attempt. At
length, having succeeded, he returned to bed, after
reciting his composition aloud, and setting his pa-
pers in order as before!
'
The 'author recollect: a circumstance sunewhat similar,
Anmsi. msonrisn. 'S~l'l
`
Several interesting cases of somnambnlism will
be found in Muratori's work, Della jbrza della
Endasia Humana, some of them given on the su-
thority of Gassendi. One of Gassendi's- somnam-
bulists used to rise and dren himself in his sleep,
go down to the cellar and draw wine from a cask:
laeappeared to seeintlzedarlc aswell asinaclear
day; batvhenhcawokeeitherinthestreetorcsllar,
hewasobhyed wgrape and_feeIhiswmybacLtohis
bed. He always answerediziswaffeasfawah, bij
in an nwmsng wwzumamznang qrwm
Another sleep-walker, a
countryman of Gassendi's,
passed on stilts over a swollen torrent in the night,
but on awnking was afraid to before day-
light, of until the wmv had sunsidsa.
The same authoryon "the authority of an
eycl
witness, Vignenl de Marville, the following
account of the somnanibulism of an Italian noble-
man, Signer Augustin Forari:
`
"About midnight, Signer Augustin drew aside
the bed-curtains with violence, arose, and put on
which occurred to himself when s boy at the Grammar School.
At night, he had made many unsueeemful attempts to tniishte
sdliBcultpssssgelnJuvcul,sndd'l'wsrdswenttcbed. Un
getting up in the morning, it occurred to him thst he had rc-
ceived some light upon the subject during his sleep; ond, upon
rekrrlngtotlie pemgewhlchhsdprevloullypuzzledhim, he
found thst he then understood it perfectly well. Upon other
occasions, he had been known to get out of bed md walk ln his
sleep.
312 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
his clothes. I went up to him, and held the light
underlaiseyes. He wokno notice ofit, although his
eyes were open and staring. Before he put on hi
hat, he fastened on his sword-belt, which hung on
the bed-post: the sword had been removed. Sig-
nor Augustin then went in and out of several
rooms, approached the fire, warmed himself in an
arm-chair, and wentthence intoa closet, where
Wil his wardrobe. He
sought something in it,
put the things into disorder, and having_ set them
rightagain, locked the_ door and put the key into
his pocket. _ He went to the door of the chamber,
opened it, and stept out on the staircase. He ap-
peared to be sensible to noises, and became fright-
ened. He went into a large court and to the sta-
ble, stroked his horse, bridled it, and looked for
the saddle to put on it. As he did not iind it in
the accustomed place, he appeared confused. He
then mounted his horse, and galloped to the house-
door. He found this shut; dismounted, and knock-
ed with a
stone, which he picked up, several times
at the door. He afterwards remounted, and con-
ducted his horse to the watering-place, let him
drink, tied him to a
post, and went quietly to the
house. Upon hearing a noise which the servants
made in the kitchen, he listened attentively, _went
to the door, and held his ear to the key-hole. Af-
ter some time, he went to the other side, and into
ANI-UAL HABHITIII
a
parlour m wlllollyali lllhlrdénlllq. He Wilk-
sd round xtlevoral tuna, llldl8@ll§ll0ll9fl0lll0f
a
player He thenwlmt toslmrpnolmul on wlnch
hewu accustomed to pnotumnnd phyodnfaw
xrregular aan. After having movul ,shout for two
hours, he went to lm ruom,_|u¢l throw hmulf up-
onhmbod, clotheduhowaqaud tholluttmorll-
mgwe found hun m lll¢llll0ll0 for uofum
as has uttaelr BIDS on,lm slept lhshmldc from
elghttotenhoun. TllBl0l'1'll.lld0¢l§l'0dfl.l¢
they could onlyput am end to his plmmynmc either
by twlnlmg lllm under tlmsoleoof lm foot, or by
blowing u trumpet m his sun.
Dr Pnehard llkQll0¢l080flmllll'll0lilll im
sleep,auddlodhul»or|o,md rodetoamllht-place,
beulgalltbclulleaalaq. lluhuotlpshofa
mddlerwhowuaoouutomadtornemhulloop,
uudworkatlmtruls. Tlneaumoamtlmrlleaenlaou
the cueofa watol||.|akef'|lppmnt|ne,1rlno||l|l an
athelcofsomulmbulnmovoryiortmght. Iuthu
sumakbolghuunnbkhalwumdnnproumna,
lseperformod lucworkwulnlus ulunl aoounq,
audwualny|utou|hed,wl|anbo|woh,utl|o
pmgrallhelmlmudannootheoonmeuounaut
oftheproxylm. AuAmonoanfu'mermeutn
a|lbyProfa||orUpham,m|a1 lllll$P|"Blll
vol..I nd
- 818
. . .
;
which he was accustomed to attend ones ~u-week,
I
I
814 annul. usommsu.
to his barn, and thrashed out, in the dark, Eve
bushels of rye, separating the from the straw
with the greatest correctness.
"
A young man named Johns, who works at
Cardrew, near Redruth, being asleep in the ump-
honse of that mins, was observed by two boys to
rise and walk to the door, against which he leaned;
shortly after, quitting that position, he walked to
the engine-shaft, and safely descended to the depth
of twenty fathoms, where he was found by his
comrades soon after, with his back resting on the
ladder. They called- to him, to apprise him of the
perilous situation in which he was, but he did not
hear them, and they were obliged to shake him
roughly till he awoke, when he appeared totally at
a loss to account for his being so situated."
Dr Gall takes notice of a miller who was in the
habit of getting up every night, and attending to
his usual avocations at the mill, then returning to
bed: on awakening in the morning, he recollected no-
zmg qf ww had puma during me nigu. Dr
Blacklock on one occasion rose from bed, to which
he had retired at an
early hour, came into the
room where his family were assembled, con-
versed with them, and afterwards entertained them
with a
pleasant song, without any of them sus-
pecting he was
asleep, and without his retaining
'
Mscmsu, Philosophy of Sleep, 2d edit. p. 166.
ANIMAL uaoumlsmf. 315
aftefhsawohe the bastreodleclionq"whot hehad
done. *
A very curious circumstance is related in the
memoirs of that eminent philosopher Dr Frank-
lin. "
I went out," said the Doctor, "
to bathe in
Morton's salt-water hob-bath in Southampton, and,
Boatingou my hack, fell asleep, and slept nearly
an hour by my watch, without sinking or turning
--a thing I never did before, and should hardly
have thought possible?
"
Acase still more extraordinary occurred some
time ago in one of the tovms on the coast of Ire-
land. About two o'clook in the morning, the
watchman on the Revenue Quay were much sur-
prised at desorying a man disporting himself in the
water, about a hundred yards from the shore. In-
timatieu. having been given to the Revenue b6at's
crew, they pushed om and succeeded in picking
him up; but, strange to say, he had no idea what-
ever of his perilous situation, and it was with the
utmost difliculty they could persuade him he was
not still in bed. But the most singular part of
this novel adventure, and which was afterwards
ascertained, was, that the man had left his house
at twelve o'olook that night, and walked through
a diilicult, and, to him, dangerous road, a distance
of nearly two miles, and had actually swam one
'
Macxum, p. 109.
3l6 Aman. uscurrisu.
mile and a halt, when hewas fortunately disch-
vered and picked np.
"
Not very long ago, aboy was seen fishing oil'
Brest, up to the middle in water. On coming up
to him, he was found to be fast aslcep."*
The story of Lord Cnlpepper's brother is pretty
well known. In 1686, he was indicted at the Old
Bailey for shooting one of the Guards and his
horse. He pleaded somnambulism, and ,was ac-
quitted, on
producing ample evidence of the 'extra-
ordinary things he did in his sleep. There is a
somewhat similar story of a ,French gentleman,
who rose in his sleep, crossed the Seine, fought a
duel, and killed his antagonist,,without recollect-
ing any of the circumstances whenawake.
The following curiou case occurred not long
ago at the Town-Hall, Southwark :-" Yesterday
Mary Spencer, a
well-looking young woman,~was
placed at 'the bar, before Mr Alderman eThorp,
charged with possessing herself of a
pair of trousers
and a handkerchief, under the following most ex-
traordinary circumstances:
`
"
John Green deposed, he was
by trade a
_plas-
terer, and, on Saturday evening, after finishing
his work, he went to see some friends at Pimlico,
and returned from thence about ten o'clock,,-and
in passing through the Borough, he was accosted
'
MACIIBB, pp. 167, 168.
ANIMAL Macnrrxsu. 817
by a female: he_had at the time a bundle on hi
arm. He knew no more of what transpired until
between one and two o'clock on
Sunday morning.
þÿ' ¬Alderman Thorp.-What l were
you so drunk
that you cannot tell what happened ?
"
Complainant (with great simplici¢Y)»-I was
not drunk, your worship; I was fast asleep (laugh-
ur.) .
"
Alderman Thorp.-You cannot be serious. I
never beard of such a thing as a man walking
through a crowded thoroughfare, like the Borough
High Street, without being disturbed.
"
Complainant-What I have stated, your wor-
ship, is true; I am, unfortunately, too frequently
affected with fits of somnambulism, and, for greater
security from robbery, I always make what articles
I carry fast to my arm, so that if any one
attempt
to snatch it from me it would awaken me.
'°
Alderman Thorp.-But how do you know the
prisoner is the party who accosted you in the B04
rough ? If you were asleep, you could not see
her.
"
Complainant.-Strange as it may appear, al-
though I have not the power to arouse myself
when in such a state of excessive lethargy, yet I
can retain the sound of persons' voices in my mind,
and, from the voice ofthe prisoner, I have not the
least doubt she is the party.
8l8 annul. uaemmsn.
"
Alderman Thorp.--How do you aeeount for
the lapse of hours from being accosted by the ps-i~
sonar up to the time you discovered your lose?
"
Complainant.-fl am in the habit of walking
for hours in my sleep, and if an attempt had been
made to forcibly take the bundle from my ann, it
would have aroused me; my handkerchief was out,
and thus the bundle was
easily taken away.
"
Alderman Thorp.--I never heard each a case
before; was the handle found ?
"
Inspector M°Craw, division M. 'an-
swered in the affirmative, and added, that what the
complainant had stated about walking the streets
and roadewas true: he had made inquiries, and
found it to he the fact; itwae well known to the
"
Watts, police constable 168, division M. de-
posed, that the complainant came to the station-
house between one and two o'clook on
Sunday
morning, and made precisely the same statement
as he had made before the Alderman. The In-
spector thought the tale savoured of the marvol-
lous, and told witness to accompany him (com-
plainant) in search of the property; and on ar.
riving at a house in Kent Street, Borough, he said
he thought the bundle was there. He knocked at
the door, which was
opened, and, by the door of la
room wherein the prisoner was
sleeping, the pro-
sluzun msesrrxeu. 819
perty was band: the moment she spoke, he said
the prisoner was the person who stopped him in
the Borough. Witness took the primer to the
"
The prosecute: here pointed out the way in
which the bundle must have heel taken away, and
showed the Alderman the rent handkerchief
"
Mr Edmonds (for the primner) contended,
that no
jury would convict upon the evidenceof
a
sleep-walker, in a
prcwcution against a street-
walker _[al laugh.) The prisoner laid I0 claim to
the bundle; and as the had sworn it
was his property, the police would give it up to
him.
"
Alderman Thorp said it was so strange a casa,
that he hardly knew how to act: he should, how-
ever, under the doubtful circumstances as to iden-
tity, give the prisoner the benefit of it, and disf-
eharge her. The hundlewas given up to the com-
plainant.
"
A gentleman, who waain attendance, said he
had known the complainant many years, and it
:vassal anuacoaumosthingforlaintobaaeizedwitla
thatunhappyafictionwlailedwbrkantlleecqfzld,
and get he had never met with aa acciknt, and, while
in that state, would aanoer quedions put to hint as
though loc was awake."
Mr Macnish, in his ingenious work already re-
820 ANIMAL useurrislf.
'
ferred to, very correctly observes, that °'
to walk
on the house top, to scale preeipiees, and descend
to the bottom of frightful ravines, are common ex-
ploits with the somnambulist; and he performs
them with a
facility far beyond the power of any
msn who is completely awake." - -
Equallyjudicious are the following observations
of _the same learned writer: "
It is not always
safe to arouse a
sleep-walker; and many cases- of
the fatal effects thence arising have been detail-
ed by authors." "
Among other`examples,- that
of a
young lady,who was addicted to this affec-
tion, may be mentioned. Knowing her failing,
her friends made a
point of locking the door, and
securing the window of her chamber, in' such a
manner that she could not possibly get out.- One
night, these precautions were unfortunately over-
looked, and, in a
paroxysm of somnambulism, she
walked into the garden behind the house. While
there, she was recognised by some of the family,
who were warned by the noise she made on
open-
ing the door, and they followed and awoke her;
but such was the e&'ect produced upon her nervous
system, that she almost instantly expired."
A very aH`eeting incident, of a similar descrip-
tion, 'occurred about twelve or
eighteen months
ago at Dresden. One evening, a
young lady was
observed walking upon the top of a house in one
ANIMAL masnrrlsn. 32I
of the streets of that city. The alarm was
given,
and a considerable concourse of persons assembled,
intensely interested in the event of her perilous
proceeding. Every possible precaution was taken
to prevent her from receiving injury, in case of an
anticipated fall ;-the street having been covered
with beds, matrasses, &c. Meanwhile, the young
lady, apparently unconscious of danger, came for-
ward to the edge of the roof, smiling and bowing
to the multitude below, and occasionally arranging
her hair and her dress. After this scene had con-
tinued for some time, and the spectators were in
the utmost anxiety for her safety, she at length
proceeded towards the window of a room, from
which she had made her exit. In their alarm,
some of the family had placed a
light in this room,
which the somnambulist perceiving, suddenly a-
woke, fell to the ground, and was killed on the
spot.
The preceding instances, I presume, suiliciently
illustrate the more common phenomena of som-
nambulism-the expertness. confidence, and se-
curity with which somnambulists perform the most
diilicult and dangerous operations- the organic
insensibility attending the affection, and the com-
plete oblivion, when awake, of every thing that
may have occurred during the paroxysm-and
888 suuux. ussuzrxsu.
the danger of amusing them out of their extra
ordinary sleep. In the following instances, si,-
milnr phenomena will be found to occur, along
with others of a still more remarkable chario-
tot.
(923)
CHAPTER Xin.
Tun following else of somnambnlim is report-
ed in the 88th volume of the French Encyclopaedia,
on the highly respectable authority of the Arch-
bishop of Bourdeaux, and has been frequently
copied into other subsequent publications.
It is the case of a
young ecclesiastic, whowas in
the habit of getting up during the night, in a state
of somnambulism, of going to his room, taking
pen, ink, and paper, and composing and writing
sermons. When he had finished one
page of the
paper on which he was writing, he would read over
what he had written aloud, and correct it. Upon
one occasion, he had made use ofthe expression: Ce
divin eqfbnt. In reading over the passage, he
changed the word divin into adorable.
`
Observing,
however, that the pronoun ea could not stand be-
fore the word adorqble, he added to it the letter t.
In order to ascertain whether the semnamblllilt
made any use of his eyes, the Archbishop held n
piece of pasteboard under his chin, to prevent him
from seeing the paper upon which he wuwriting;
824 ANIMAL mseurrxsm.
but he continued to write on, without being, appa-
rently, incommoded in the slightest degree. The
paper upon which he was
writing was taken away,
and other paper laid before him; but the young
ecclesiastic immediately perceived the change.
He wrote pieces of music while in this state, and
in the same manner, with his eyes closed! The
words were placed _under themusic. It happened,
upon one occasion, that the words were written in
too large a character, and did not stand exactly
under the corresponding notes. He soon
perceived
the error, blotted out the part, and wrote it over
again with great exactness.
A
Now, in what manner, it may be asked, *was the
faculty of vision exercised by this somnambulist ?
He wrote, it will be observed, and corrected what
he had written, with his eyes closed; and he expe-
rienced no inconvenience when an
opaque body was
interposed between them and the paper on which
'
I request the particular attention of my readers to thh re,
markable phenomenon throughout all the instances of the natu-
ral somnambulism which I shall have occasion to adduce. I am
aware that, in my views upon this subject, I am opposed by all
the most eminent adherents of the prevailingsystems of physio-
logy ; but I it may be noted that, while they deny the pa-
sibility of the phenomenon, a
priori, upon mere theoretical
grounds, I have undertaken to demonstrate its reel as-istenos by
positive evidence of the most cogent and irresistible nature.
The explanation of the fact is attended with more diliiculty;
but this circumstance sfords no
argument against its reality.
.wxmst Mssmrrxsm. 825
he was
writing. Is it not evident here that the fa-
culty in question must have been transferred from
its appropriate organ to some other part of the ner-
vous system P
In the following case; which appears to have been
most minutely and most accurately observed, the
phenomenon of the exercise of vision without the
use of the eyes, and, consequently, of the transfe-
rence of the faculty of sight, is still more
conspi-
cuous.
Some interesting particulars, concerning a na-
tural somnambnlist, having been communicated to
the Philosophical Society of Lausanne, three of its
members-Dr Levade, and Messrs Regnier and
Van Berchem--were appointed acommittee to make
their observations and report upon the case. The
somnambulist was a
boy of the -name of Devaud,
thirteenyears and six months old, residing in the
house of M. Tardent, schoolmaster at Vevey.
s
The following are some of the facts observed and
reported by the Committee upon this occasion. I
have purposely left out of view the theoretical prin-
ciples upon which these intelligent gentlemen at-
tempted to account for the phenomena they ob-
served; being anxious, at present, to confine my-
self, as much as
possible, to the mere detail of
facts*
'IhsvequotcdfromstrmslstionoftheFrenchD»epmt,
828 nmru. umurrxsn;
"
We can testify," say the Committee, "
that he
dressed himself in a room perfectly dark. His
clothes lay on a great table; and when we jumbled
them with other wearing apparel, he immediately
discovered the trick, and complained grievously
that his companions made sport of him. At Inst,
by the help of a feeble ray, we saw him dress with
great precision."
"
Having snatched one of his hooks, when his
eyes were perfectly shut, he said, without opening it,
'
'Tis _a sorry dictionary] as indeed it was."
'With his eyes fast locked, he touched, in our
presence, several objects, and yet distinguished per-'
fectly well those he had, from those he had not seen
before. Once, for example, we thrust into the
drawer that contained his papers, a hook which did
not belong to him. He stumbled upon it by acci-
dent, and expre sed great concern lest he should he
suspected of theft."
"Heissometimesapprisedq)"the preseneeqfob-
jects, without beingassistedbgthe sense qfsightor
qf touch."
"
Having prevailed on him to write a version,
we saw him light a
candle, take pen, ink and papers
from his drawer, and then jot down what his master
published st Edinburgh, in 1792. An account of this case will
be found also in the Encyclopedia Britannica. Art. Snnxr-'
Wanna,
`
.
.ANIMAL MAGNBTIBK. 327-
dictated. Though we put a
thieh piece qf be-
_fizre his eyes, he continued wjbrm each character with
the same distinctness as befbre ; only he seemedto
feel uneasy, probably from the paper being placed
too near his nose, and so
preventing a free respi-
ration."
i
V
'
At tive o'clock, on the morning of the 21st De-
cember, our
young sleep-walker rose from his bed,
took his writing materials and version book, and
put his pen to the top of the page, but observing
some lines already traced, he brought it down to
the blank part of the leafl The lesson began with
these words, Film# igmwi pigritia-Il: demetuleilt
rynorans par la paresse. What is very surprising,
after writing several lines, he perceived that he had
omitted an s in the word ignorans, and inserted
two rs in paresse ;` nor did he proceed further till
he corrected both these mistakes."
`
"
At mother time, he wroteacopy, to please his
master, ss he said.
A
It exhibited specimens of large
and round text, and running hand, each done with
its respective pen. He drew a castle in the corner
ofthe paper, and erased a blot between two letters,
without touching either of them. M. Levade, in
short, has seen him cypher and calculate with great
exactness. In each ofthe above operations, the sleep-»
walker had his eyes almostalways shut, but there
was a
lightin the room." _
-
828 Amana manurrxsu.
"
Welaaveeyienlaeardlaineounedoavn slairevery
hastily, when it was quite dark."
"
We lhewed him a bool: he had never seen be-
fore. He said he would examine it in day-light;
and retiring, with this intention, into a very dark
kitchen, opened the book," &c.
"
He took from his press several of his own
books, went to examine them in total darkness, cast
up the title-pages, and named each, without
a
single mistake, as we verified by bringing them
into the light, as soon as he named them. He has
eventoldtlaehlleqfabooh, wlaentlaerewas atlaich
plank placed between it and his eyes."
"
M Tardentslaewedusaspecimen Qfllfl writing,
which, heassuredus, the skep-walker had executed
in the completest darkness."
In their observations upon this remarkable case,
the Committee conclude, that "
since the sieg-
walltercanun'itewithanythingplacedbe_/iJrel|£s
eyes, wearenottobeswprised that heshoulddoso
in the greatest obscurity. In darkness, it seemsthat
his sense of touch supplies, in some measure, that
of sight; thathalshands, andevenhisface Uhr he
hasbeenseentoapproacholyectssonear lsisfaeeas
to touch it), helplcimoutwithajustideaqfthejhnns
and qualdies q)"oQjecl:s."
The reader is requested to compare this last ob-
servation with the phenomena described in the Ap-
AFIIAL KAGHITIIU
peudnx (No II ), aa
ooenrrmgm theeases reported
by the Doetora Deapmeand Delplt, and byProfes-
sor Kisser, wlneb, I have been mformed, have been
the subject of a
great deal of wut-and ndleale In
tbosevarioua mstaneeaoftbe observation ofa very
extraordmaryfaet, xt re qmte impossible that there
could have been any tlnng like oolluslon between
the psrtlee nor ll there the slightest ground to
suspect the competency, or the good faith, of the
reporters. Had the approprlate experiments been
made m thu Lausanne case, the results, m all pro-
bability, would have been very nmllar to tbeeeob-
served and recorded by the learned Professor
ssnee
snpplymg the want of aeotber, as I formerly
hunted, xs utterly madequats to explain the facts
and therefore quite madmneible. In some of the
eaaestobeafterwardaaddneedntmll be seeuthat
tloetvMleqf'¢he eeneewerem aatateoftemporary
uepsniougsotbatuotousoftbennwaaleftto
perform tlrefnnetiemloftbeotborgeveulfsueb an
hypothesxswereotbermee tenable. Outbeotber
handnheasppesition ofthe tranafeeeneeoftlnsfae
oultxes, wlneb apparently takes plaee daring the
apathy of the organs, eomblned with an Increased
eeualblllty and aetlvlty of certain pvrhola of lbe
nervous system, wlueb bas been observed to take
VDL 1 I e
. 829
Imsybererenxarknbattbe hypetbeieofone
I _
880 ANIMAL HAGNETISM.
place in various instanees,_is much more consistent
with the phenomena actually manifested, and rem
ders the solution of all diimllties comparatively
easy. At all event; explain it as we will, the het
itself is capable of being demonstratadby evidence.
The next instance of the natural
°
to which I shall refer, rests upon the msstrespecf-
able authority of the Aulie Councillor and Profes-
sor Feder of Goettingen, a
gentleman whose 'learn-
ing and philosophical. f%l0K»tl were highly appro-
ciated in his native country. - -
_ _
The suhjectof the Professorfs ohsenvatiensy was
a tudenf, Who, during a sevsrefnsrveus eomplaieii
experienced several attacks of somnamhalism. Up-
on theso occasions, he would go _badnseom
to his parlour, and. back, open and, shut the-doors,
as also his closets, and take out of' the latter what-
ever he wanted--pieces of musig, pan,, ink, and
papers &c.-and all this with his eyes slant. From
among his music, he picked out amareh-liaom the
Medeés laid the.Sl1¢0|>iI1 8 proper situation before
him, and having found the appropriate key, he
played the whole piece, with his usual skill, upon
the harpsichord. In the same manner, hs also
played one of Bach's sonatas, and gave the inosi
expressive passages with surprising efect. One of
the persons present turned the notes upside down :
This he immediately perceived, and when be again
ANIMAL Msezurrisn. 831
began to play, he replaced the sheet inits proper
situation. While playing, he remarked a. string
out of tune, upon which he' stopt, put it in order,
and then proceeded. Hewrote a letter to his bro-
ther; and what he wrote was not only perfectly
rational, hut straight snd legible. While Profes-
sor. Feder was
upon a visitto- him one afternoon,
he observed that. it was snowing, which was really
the case. On. the same-day,-hefremerlned,nalw£tlv
standingluls eyeswere eloeed,thet the lsndlordof
the opposite house was standing at the window,
which was true; and that hats were hanging at
thewinduw of mothervroom in the samehome,
whiehwes also eorreet, dw. Nopertienlnr experi-
ments appealz to have been made, in this ease, with
the view of ueerteinilg thepreeise state- of the
diferent faculties.; but it was=
quite evident that
this somnambulist sew
distinctly without the nee
of his eyes! _,
Thelellawing csse;o£ natural somnambulism is
recorded in-the Tmnsaetions of the Medical Society
of Breslen.-f
A IDPQKICBI, twenty-thnee years of age, was
frequently overmken hy sleep, even by day-light,
°
I hsve mislsid my reference to the source whence I derived
this case; but I believe it will'be found in Morltz's Psychological
Mepulns.
-1- SeeAm Vra¢idoe.Clsseiv.srt.7.
882 sumsx. mseuarxsm.
and in the midst of his usual occupation, whether
sitting, standing, or walking. Hia eyes werejirsi-
lycloned, andl|¢Ioettl|euseqfaIll|isa:ta1|alaa|ses.
While in this state, he sometimes reeomlneneed
doing all that he had been engaged in during the
previous part of the day, from his morning devo-
tions up to the commencement of the
At other times, he would continue the work in
which be happened to be engaged at the time, and
finished his business with as great-ease and success
as when awake. When the lit overtook him in
travelling, he did not stand still, but proceeded on
his journey, with the same
facility and almost fast-
er than when awake, without missingthe road, or
stumbling over any thing. In this manner, he re-
peatedly went from Naumburgh to Weimar. Upon
one of these occasions, be came into a narrow lane,
across which there lay some timber: He passed
over it regularly, as if awake, without jinjury.
With equal care and dexterity, he avoided the
horses and carriages which came in his way. At
another time, he was overtaken by sleep, a short
while before setting out for Weimar on horseback.
He rode through the river Ilme, allowed his horse
to drink, and drew up his legs to prevent them
from getting wet ; then passed through several
streets, crossed the market-place, which W88 then
xzumu. Macs:-:'r1su. 383
full of people, booths, and carts; and arrived in
safety at the house where his business lay.
During the continuance of the parozvysm, he was
qude insensible ; though pricked, pinched, or struck,
hefelt nothing. He could not see when his eyes were
forcedopen. Hecould notsmedeven themostvolaé
tilespirit; nor eouldhehear thereportqfapistol,
when_fired close beside him.
It is scarcely necessary to observe, that the or-
dinary material principles of Physiology are quite
incapable of explaining such a case as this. Here,
it is at once obvious, there is no foundation for the
hypothesis of one sense
supplying the place of an-
other; because all the external. sensesvwere ascer-
tained to be completely dormant. The case, it is
conceived, can only he accounted for by assuming,
as warranted by the facts, a ,transference of the fa-
culties; and that the internal sense-the soul-
manifested its energies through other than the
usual organs; s
Dr Knoll gives a
curious account of a somnam-
bulist, whom he himself attentively and _accurately
observed during his nightly wanderings in winter;
and his narrative is accompanied with many judi-_
cious and interesting remarkt' _
The subject of
'
Himrisahc, Ihcoraliachc und practiachc Bdnoluungdnu Hrz-
Iieh eovyqfalltnen Naehhoandolns- 1747.
384 annul. uaourrxsx.
these observations was a
young man, a
gardener,
who became somnambulist, and, while in that state,
performed many extraordinary operations, of which
I shall notice only the following. _
The lady of the house in which he r|ided,be-
ing apprehensive of some danger from hil noe|:m:»
nal excursions, ordered him to sleeprin another
apartment, where he was locked up md' watched.
When he became somnambnlist, at the hour,
hehegan to performallsorts of operations upol
his clothes and the furniture of the room. He
climbed up to the window, and from thence to a
stove, which was much higher, and at some dis-
tance from it, and rode upon the latter, m if upon
horseback. The height of the stove, its distance
from the window, and its small breadth, were such,
that a
person awake would scarcely have ventured
to go through these operations. After descending
from the stove, he knocked a large table about,
hither and thither, and finding that it was
likely-
to fall upon himself, he very dexterously contrived
to evade it. He gathered all the clothes he could
find in the room, mixed them together, then se-pa-
rated them-carefully, and hung them up, each ar-
ticle in its proper place. The old stockings and
shoes he endeavoured to arrange together in pairs,
according to their shape and colour, as if he actual-
ly saw them. He laid hold of a needle, which he
ANIMAL uasumxsn. 335
had stuck into the wall some weeks before, put the
thread through the eye, and sewed his small-clothes.
Besides these, he performed a variety of other ope-
rations too tedious to enumerate; all, however, re-
quiring light and the use qfthe eyes, wdh which, it
would appear, hewas enabled to dispense.
In this case, we have an
example of the ease and
confidence with which the somnambulist performs
dimcult and delicate operations, without any assht-
ance from the sensitive organs. In some of the
following instances, these and other remarkable
phenomena will be still more
conspicuously dis-
played.
<=w>a
CHAPTER XVII. .
I AU now about to adduce two or three cases of
somnambulism, in which the affection appears to
have been occasioned by, or at least was concomi-
tant with, an otherwise morbid state of the system.
In these, it will be seen, the phenomena were, in
all respects, analogous to those manifested in the
preceding instances. .
The following case is given upon the authority
of M. Sauvages de la Croix.
A girl of twenty years of age was
frequently at-
tacked with cataleptic iusensibility, during which
she continued still' and deprived of all sensation,
whether standing, sitting, or lying, in the position
she might happen to be in at the commencement of
the attack, and she could be pushed forward, like
a statue, when it was wished to remove her from
one place to another. She was afterwards placed
in a diferent state, which commenced with the
same deprivation of sense and motion, hut, at iu-
tervals, presented a wonderful kind of animation.
She iirst became motionless, then, some minutes
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 387
afterwards, she began to yawn, sat up on the hed,
and enacted the following scene, which she repeat-
ed at least fifty times. She spoke with an unusual
liveliness and cheerfulness, and what she said was
a continuation of what she had spoken in her pre-
vious fit, or a
repetition of some
part of the cate-
chism, which she had heard read on the preceding
evening. She frequently addressed her acquaint-
ances in the house, and sometimes made ironical
applications of moral apophthegms to them under
feigned names, with open eyes, and uch gestures
as she had made the previous evening. That du-
ringallthos time she was not awake, is clearfrom
various experiments. A hand wassuddenlypassed
near hereyes, without producing any motion in the
eye-lids, or any attempt for evade 12, or interrupting
her speech in the slightest degree. The same thing
happened when a finger was suddenly approached
cbsetehereyqoraburningtaperlwhisoneartoit,
that the hair qfher eye-lids was actually burnt, and
alsowhenanyonecalledloudlyinto herearfrombe-
hind, or 'threw a stone against the bedstead. Nay
more, brandy and spirit qfhartshomwere poured in.
tohereyesandmouth; Spanishsnafwasblownin-
tohernostrils;shewasprichedwithneed1cs;her
_/ingerswere wrenched; theballqfhereye wastouch-
edwith a_feather,andeven wit/athejinger: 'She ma-
voL. 1. r f -
888 suunx. lusmrnsu.
mfalednottlae slightest sensation. She.a.lwa.y| he-
gan to peak with more animation,-a.nd,'soon after-
wards, she sang and laughed aloud, attnmpted to
get out of hed, and at
length sprang out. of it, and
utteredacryofjoy. She kepttlle middle waybo-
tweenthe bedsteadsasaveIIaswl|enawake,andnever
came against Uaem-turned derdcrously round bottom
the bedsteads and -
a closet, wnfholzt ever
9f0Pi"9/W' ww!/»0f¢°°wf¢i°9f'°¢ vlekvlu ¢¢MY7¢"
turning round, she returned wflzer- bod, covered-her.
selfwdhtheclothea, dyke
commencement. She then awoke, as if-from a.pro-
found' sleep, andwhen- |he~peroeived, from .thump-
penrance of the -
bystanders, that~|he -hve
had her fits again, 'she wept the whole .dayafor
shame, and never knew what hadhappened~to~ her
during the paroxysm.
This cese bears con iderable _analogy to\l|at of
LouisaBaerkmann,_reported by Dr Joseph Frank,
and noticed in the Appendix- (No. II.) It tends,
along with others, to demonstrate the total organic
insensibility attending the aifectionyand the com-
plete -forgetfulness in
-the waking statefof every
thing that occurred during theAparoxysm.
Lord Monboddo, in the llth- chapter of .the Se-
cond book of his
Aratient Metapbysios, has recorded
a
very curions ease 'of somnambulism, which, al-
though I presume it is very generally known, I
LNIHAL INDIE!!!
shall take the llbertyofzglmualahng mbunlmd-
nhlpmlwnarodl.
'
lung' uyuhal Lonlnlup, '~th¢,-easomfa
young girl; m at!! loglllndurlotllofl-ily hone In
the country, 'inland' wvlxcahaatlabn-flung well
lmowufm tlumoouatrywhra I lrngniil ilwume
of thalaqnslytlntntthefmpcngagie , unlhvlneh
mm an ll\l'll!»klIld0f fm»ywh¢|nm»a»¢
pluentl lu their |\oup,l|d mnkastioh jump and
run like penn: poholnd iiovgntlvtal-Qttnliod
bythminmmhnwjearuugo, in tid Qritgywhea
dna vu about mztaonyeanaf nga, alll-fkllhatod
ways |nlodhor!n|§0\'|ly~|5m¢,¢0h|l0l|ly|bout
1ennore\g\|\o'oIoel\~mthomomi|g,l§er|l|e
hndbeenoutofbedwmortlireelaours. I#-began
mtl: l]l&7Illi or &l'0K1Hl|YlIi¢lI'|l1'dll'|
sleep, atloantwhhthadlhoqlpeannoeof sleep
jlrhcreyaeuendondnd. Inulnwoonimonghe
wuuldleapupupoustoolsandttblomwuthuur
pnsingagnhty thensllewonldgbtoatoftbeeot-
tagewhereshelivedvnth lxarhilnenuotler and
bmtier, and i'lllW!|i|l"g!$fV!0\K0l|d§A
;u»a¢un¢mua¢wA»»an,~bun1w»y»wnh
canals dastnmon tosoueoaoplloo mthdndgh-
bourhood mdtovhielr-"phoa|l»e~dhadid,w\|en
ohefoundlheiteomingupmlnerythnahewuto
go anddiorobelsndgunetotllopllll-efluor
| n- s o 0
_
_
.
,
°
I
_
_ \. . ,
.», ..
... .|
' . |_
0 U
'
'
_
'
I _
' '
I C
4
_- 'I
`
-
I 4
-
I
'
! >
3
w
'
_ 'r '<
I l C
U I
A .
'
l_
I |
»
_
° '
aomethiig mute--than' tltua-months; "fl'l|o56t-»nl-
I I -
s _
_
| ,
_
_
._
*
-_ Q -
'
2* ,
| u l _
'
n
I \ 5 ,I
I
,
'
_'I
I
1
-
1
'
-
I
0 | |
.
| .
g U
-
l O I _ _
O A _
'
1
. 1
`
'
I C
o u -
|_
_
_ __
5
|
A \ I 'J .
-
l
340 animal. nncxlsrlsm.
destination, if she did' not there awake, she came
back in the same direction, though she did not al-
ways keep the high road, but frequently went a
nearer way across the fields ; and though her road,
for this reason, was often very rough, she never fell,
notwithstanding the violence with which she ran.
But all the whiledwrafahereyeswereqrdte sind,
as her brother attests, who often ran with her to
take care of her, and who, though he was much
older, stronger, and cleverer than she, was
hardly
able to keep up with her. When she told, before
the fit came on, to what place she was to run, she
said she dreamt the night before that she was to
run to that place; and, though they sometimes ,dis-
suaded her from going to aparticularplace, as to
my house, for example, where they said the dogs
would bite her, she said she would run that way,
and no other. When she awaked, and came out
of her delirium, she found herself extremely weak,
but soon recovered her strength, and was
nothing
the worse for it, but, on the contrary, was much
the worse for being restrained from running.
When she awahed, and came to hersem she had my
the least remembrance qf what had passed while .she
was asleep. Sometimes she would run
upon the
top of the earthen fence which surrounded her fa.
ther's little garden; and, though the fence was gf
an
irregular figure, and very narrow
attop, ye;
_...__
ANIMAL Maeumxsm. 341
she never fell from it, nor from the top of the
house, upon which she would sometimes get, by
the assistance of this fence, though her eyes were
then likewise shut. Some time before her disorder
left her, she dreamed, as she said, that the water
of a well in the neighbourhood, called the Dflffllg
Well, would cure her; and, accordingly, she drank
of it very plentifully, both when she was well and
when she was ill. Once, when she was ill, she ex-
pressed, by signs, a violent desire to drink of it
(for she did not, while in the lit, speak so as to be
intelligible), and they having brought her other
water, she would not let it come near her, but re-
jected it with signs of great aversion; but when
they brought her the water of this well, she drank
it greedily, her eyes being all the while shut. Be-
fore her last fit came
upon her, she said that she
had just three leaps to make, and she would nei-
ther leap nor run more. And accordingly, having
fallen asleep as usual, she leaped up upon the stone
at the hack of the chimney, and down again; and
having done this three times, she kept her word,
and never
leaped nor run more. She is now in
perfect health."
Having given these details of this very interest-
ing case, his Lordship justly observes: "
What I
have said of this girl remembering nothing of what
passed while she was in the fit, is the ease of all
34¢2 4
Ammu. mxuurrrsnti
night-walkersie It is hyfthis, chiefly; that' nightr
walking -is# distinguished'-' from dreiming; andf 'it
proves-Ib me; that" themind is their morefdisell-'
gaged- from the body'than'i1.fis evenfin~dresmfig.~
For' it 'is~not' only without tlle~nse°of5the Sensei,
but"without memory." Swiiirfhie Lordship." -
Here; then, is acase of"1|atnt'l
in wllieh' we ind 'several of'the phenomenafpeculiar
to the affection, audwhich' have occu!1el`fiu' IUQIY
other instances, verydistinctly developed# W`xtli=het
eyes shut, this girl' runs
rapidly along' the higlli
road, and through' the~Bolds,_uniuju1ed¢
with greater' rapidity than. she 'wasfeapable oi? =de=
ingf in-lla' ordinary state: Sho :also fruns
securely
upomthenanow and irreg=ular'top oF anfemthoné
fence, and upon the topof the-:house;_wid1'~ her
eyes stillolosed; Inf the sanxef state; she distin-
guishesfbetween the water of a-.pantienrlar well and
other -water. When' awake, shefrememinrs no-
thing of whatoccurrod dnring' her fits; and~she
predicts; the period and- the manner of her' reco-
very:
i .
~
;
The following account was communicatedfto Dr
Wienholt by Dr Schultz of Hamburg'k,- and'-if' is
alswinserted in Meinerfs eoHectioax; he ha'vin'g're-
ceivedf it from'-theasame source. -
»
0
The paiient was-a girl-ot?»thirteeu;-beldnging-to
a
respectlible'family§ who was sick of a severermm-
ANIMAL uscszrrsm. 84-8
vous
complaint, accompanied with violent convul-
sivemotioas, insensibility and catalepsy. In some
of her attacks, she conversed with much acnteness
and pointed wit. While--in a state of somnambu-
lism, she distinguished, without diiculty, all co-
lofursfpresented to-her,'and recognised the num-
bers offoards, and- the stripes- upon the painted
cards. Sbe~described»tbe colour of the binding of
books. Shcwroteas-wellas usual, and-cut out ii-
gures in paper, as. she -was accustomed to do for
amusement in her waking state; 'During all this
time, her eyes werefast closed; but iiorder-tobe
certain, that, upon these occasions, shémade-no`usc
Q/'h¢r¢w=»`¢/»¢yw¢fv1>wd¢9¢d- vim the dpzifwb/I
qftlw-oonvislsabns which preeededthe domndssuba-
liant. -
Ineedi make no remark upon this case, except
ing that itcondrms and corroborates some cfs-the
most remarkable phenomena described in the pro
ceding instances.
One of the most extraordinary lomnambnlists
'upon record is a certain John Baptist'Negretti of
Vicenza, a servant in the family of the Marquis
Louis Sale.' Messrs Righlini and Pignatti parti-
cularly observed the phenomena heexhibited; and
the latter, in the year 1745, drew up a"Report up-
on -the case, of which the substance will_be.found
in the Jmlmal
`
for the month of
844 ANIMAL Mssuarlsu.
July l762, and also in the work of Mumtori al-
ready referred to, page 96, and in the Journal E-
tranger for the year l756. _ .
I must refer the inquisitive reader to some one
of the above-mentioned works for a full account of
this very curious and amusing case ; and shall only
advert to one or two particulars, as illustrative of
the state of this somnambulist's sensibility.
Upon one occasion, Negretti dressed' a salad,
having previously taken all that was
necessary for
this purpose out of the kitchen-press; and when it
was
ready, he sat down ,at a table to eat it. The
plate was taken away from before him, and a dish
of cabbage set down in its place, which he ate in-
stead of the salad. While he was still eating, the
cabbage was removed, and a tart placed before
him, which he also devoured, without appearing to
perceive any diiference in the things he was eat-
ing; from which circumstance, the reporters ob-
serve, it may be inferred, that the usual organs of
taste were inactive or insensible, and that the soul
only was
busy, without any co-operation of the
body.
A similar inference may be drawn from the fol-
lowing occurrence :-At another time, he said that
he wished to drinka little. Accordingly, he went to
a tavern, called the landlord, and asked for half a.
pint of wine. Instead of wine, half a
pint of water
ANIMAL Msenmrxsu. 345
was
given him, which he drank-oil". Upon return-g
ing home to the chateau, he appeared very cheer-
ful, said that he had been drinking in the tavern,
and that his stomach was much the better of it.*
In Moritz's Psychological Magazine(vol. ii. No. 1,
p. 69), there is a short account, by Ritter, of a
boy
of ten years of age, who became subject to fits of
drowsines , and frequently fell asleep suddenly,
even in the day-time, whether sitting or standing.
In this state, he would converse with the persons
present; and although his eyes were, to all appear-_
ance, completely closed, he was able to see and dabcrzl
minute all oljeets presented to him. When awaken-
ed, he 'recollected nothing of what had occurred
during his sleep, but would talk of other matters.
On his again falling asleep, the thread of discourse
could be taken up where it had been previously
interrupted, and continued. When he again awoke,
he remembered nothing of the conversation that
had occurred during his sleep, but recollected what
had been last said to him when awake; and thus,
says the reporter, it appeared as if he had two souls,
one for the state of sleep, and the other for the pe-
riod when he was awake.
_In this and the following case, which presents a
still more extraordinary instance of this double
'
Similar phenomena are quite fiunilisr to those acquainted
with the magnetic somnambnlism. -
_
84¢ nmnn umsrrxsu.
personality, we
might perhaps find some corroholw
tion of the ideas of Reil andmthers, respecting the
twofautagonist poles of sensibility-in the human
constitution--the pneumatic- and- thevsoinatic-f-the
cerebral-and the ganglionic systems of -vitality;
The case now to bereferredr to-occm1'cd~in.Ame-
rica. It is described by Elliot; Prnfeuor of
Mathematics in the-United1=Statet' Military ~Aca-
demy at West Point; aud= .wamcommunieateds by
Dr Mitchell to.Dr Nott,rin
þÿqfA|»ar ¬ca,
for January'l8i6.
'Phe patient was. an
accomplished young lady,
who, in a state of somnambulism;
tion of her previous acquirements, and, like a child;
was. obliged -
to commence her education anew.
When. restored to her natural tate, she again be-
came posessed of her former knowledge, but re-
membered nothing of what had occurred' in. the in=
terval. During four years, these two states -alter-
nated periodically; but she herself- possessed- as
little consciousness of her double character, as two
distinct persons of each other.
When- treating of somna.mbulism,_Dr Abercromv
bie observes, that "
another very singular- phono#
menon presented bysome instances of this infection,
is what has been called, rather incorrectly, -a state
of _double consciousness. It consists in the indi-
vidual recollecting, during a
paroxysm, circula-
ARIHAL IAGIIHY
smnoawhnhonulduekfmwutliidvlgh
tb¢l'0Wlll'El'BH1|l10U0f"lH'Ul'llg"h'll*
tarvuh 'luxxquwollsvlnomothnphmoni
oonnaoladlwulrthoahotion unnikhglyxlliith
ed|naa\sule||n°ll|dbyDrDyaoof'A&nfdsul;u\
the Edhburgh Pkillopiinl Tnhnadun. The
§»\8\!¢W$|l~IYll\|'ll,'~d&¢&d|l\\Q
mth iitrdnmuolency; which QIIOCH hurli-
duly luviug~\l||~d|ygmd~f|u|zwiia||d\l'¢oul||¢
Iirutfbero\»cdby\i\ing;avhy~~bu|g~t&\o|t
mtatlmoponalr s|l8"¥|lm""PlM
dnl dung thmuwuh, npliugl UPU' viii
shawmmgavthis-umq |on|i\k~oPmyAHl¢ti¢
wuaaidtainr In hernhaquutpl-
mxyums, mln begun to undenmniwhlwu nil
toher and toanswerwlthnoomiddilmlqnl
of oonnimuy, lu. "Sho dsc halulvapblo
of followmg het usual employment|h||Qth¢p|-
mxyn nlunedmemhehidmnzbunllnunut-
lyRn'brl|\Hll,andnpa|tldly'dr1i||lllF|lll
mhnoluldroaof lhofamdpherqurvnmuugdd
Mawholetolls. Thnremnrhbloemsulnbliwl
nowdloov0r¢i,l||l.t,dllflIl|Ui0g|mlyl|||,ih|hi
ndlimotnadkninonof-lhdtlllpknmftl
pu-oxy|m|,thuug!||l|rh¢!'nu l'0lU 'd'"
durmgthunurvals. Atonaullgnlnwqhhl
to church whila under the Mink, ll*'i&»
I'
| w
a
_
'
|
:I
°
{ f I .
4
°
'
'
1
'
_i. A _
\ I
seemed to bl°¥.&|[b'l|>lIQ"'llllvQ§ and
1
.nun onuinnon
|`
84.8 Amman nneurrlsm.
haved with propriety, evidently attending to the
preacher; and she was at one time so much afect-
ed as to shed tears. In the interval, she had no
recollection of having been at church; but, in the
next paroxysm, she gave a most distinct account of
the sermon, and mentioned particularly the part of
it by which she had been so much afected."-" Du-
ring the attack, her eye-lids were
generally half-
shut; her eyes sometimes resembled those of a
per-
son affected with amaurosis, that is, with a dilated
and insensible state of the pupil; but sometimes
they were quite natural."-" At one time, during
the attack, she read distinctly a
portion of a book
which was
presented to her: and she often sung,
both sacred and common
pieces, incomparably bet-
ter, Dr Dyce aflirms, than she could do in the
waking state."*
Dr Abercrombie also relates the following ana-
logous history.
"
A girl aged seven years, an
orphan of the lowest
rank, residing in the house of a farmer, by whom
'
Abercrombie On the Intellectual Powers. Fourth Edition,
pp. 294, &c.
It appears that this girl was afterwards abused, in one of her
paroxysms, in the most brutal and treacherous manner. On
awak6ng,¢hchadnooonaoi¢nunauwhatecaroftl|eouhugo; butiaa
mbuquenlparaxyam, some dag: afterwards, it reournd to her neo(-
leotion, and the than related to her mother all the revoking pariiculart.
This case presents a very striking instance of the phenomenon
of double personality.
Aunuar. Macssrxsm. 849
she was
employed in tending cattle, was accustomed
to sleep in an
apartment separated by a
very thin
partition from one which was
frequently occupied
by an itinerant fiddler. This person was a musi-
cian of very considerable skill, and often speuta
part of the night in performing pieces of a refined
description ; but hisperformance was not taken no-
tice of by the child except as a
disagreeable noise.
After a residence of six months in this family, she
fell into bad health, and was removed to the house
of a benevolent lady, where, on her recovery 'after
a
protracted illness, she was
employed as a servant.
Some years after she came to reside with this lady,
the most beautiful music was often heard in the
house during the night, which excited no small in-
terestand wonder in the familyi and many a waking
hour was
spent in endeavours to discover the invi-
sible-minstrel. At length, the sound was tracedtu
the sleeping room of the girl, who was found fast
asleep, but uttering from her lips a
sound exactly
resembling the sweetest sounds of a small violin.
On farther observation it was found, that, after be-
ing about two hours in bed, she became restless
and began to mutter to herself ;-she then uttered
sounds precisely resembling the tuning of a violin,
and at length, after some
prelude, dashed 'od' into
elaborate pieces of music, which she' performedin
a clear' and accurate manner, and with a'~sound
850 Aman. umurrxsu.
exactly resembling the mostdslioste modulations
of that instrument. During the performance she
sometimes stopped, made the-sound nf' ne-tuning
her instrument, and than bqan-exactly-where she
had stopped in the most eorreetfmsnner."
'
~
"
Aftera yearor two, her music-was not con-
fined to the imitation of the-violin, vbut .wus ~
often
exchanged for that of a piano ofuvery old llescrip-
tion, which she was accustomed -to hear in the
house where she now lived; and she then also ie-
gan to sing, imitating exactlythe voicesrof several
ladies of the family. ~In another-year from 'this
time, she began to talk argrest- deal in'l|er_ sleep,
in which she seemed. to fancy herself.instructing a
younger companion. #She often descanted -with
the utmost liuency and correctness oma
variety;of
topics, both political and religious, the newsof the
day, the historical parts- of Scripture, cha-
racters, and particularly the characters of members
of the family and their visitors. Inthese discus.
sions she shewed the most wonderful discrimination,
often combined with sarcasm, -and astonishing
powers of mimicry. 'Her language* through the
whole was lluent and correct, and hers illustrations
often forcible and even~. eloquent. #She was fold of
illustrating- her ubjects by what'she.cs.led afable,
and- in these. her imagerywaaboth appropdateand
elegant. *iShe -was
by:no~ms|ms,_ says:.my=infor-
Asnnr. nnonsnau. £61
mer, limited.in her range,--Bsnapsnte,WelliQlq||,
Bluelmr, and-all~the kings of tbe.sar=th, figured
among the phmtssllsgoriafof hen lnin;~~sl|l»sll
were
aniiaadvertsd-llflm with llllh-f|¢1
restmint,-asoften- made mejhiuk posr.Naney=.hed
Truth. Tllb1j|lltlHl and truth oiher- rsmsrhs-on
all subjects, excited the utmost þÿllfA|Di"jNll§
ill
those who were limited leans
ofaeqniriag information. Sbmhss-hsea-Inova-to
eonjugateeorrectly»Latin~verhs»whieb=ehshd»pvo-
bably heard in the school-room. of the ftllily ifllll
she was once-heard to spealr l0'Yllll._lt||l¢l'l'
correctly in French,-at thessmemhe stalingthat
shahsemd them from aforeign geltlaaqibm
lllBhldl!lBt aeeilentallyh a
shop.
'
Beingxques-
dosed on this subjeetwh¢swreke,ahe-remembered
havingfseem'llB'»_g1"lIll, buteauld not repeat a
-word»o£»»hathe,said. fDariag~bev.penuysu,, is
was alnoshimpsssihle toewshhc, ddatiula
4 -smishulldlaelv-the
eye, the pupil sealed islsellslilsll lie Hill. ~Flluss-
verel years, she wan, during the psroxyllqqisb
unconscious ofthe presence of' other persons ; hut,
about the age of sixteen, she began to ohserve those
who were in the apartment, and she could tell cor-
reetly their numbers, though the utmost care was
taken to have the room darkened. She now also
852 Asnnx. nseusrxsm.
became capable of answering questions that were
put to her, and of noticing remarks made in her
presence; and, with regard to both, she shewed asto-
nishingacuteness. Her observations, indeed, were
often of such a nature, and corresponded so accu-
rately with characters and events, that by the coun-
try people she was believed to be endowed with su-
pernatural powers.
"
During the whole periodof thisremarkableaffec-
tion, which seems to have gone on for han or eleven
years, she was, when awake, a dull awkward girl,
very slow in receiving any kind of instruction,
though muchcare was bestowed upon her; and, in
point of intellect, she was much inferior to the
other servants of the family. In particular, she
shewed no kind of turn for music. She did not
appear to have any recollection of what had passed
during her sleep ; but, during her nocturnal
ramblings, she was more than once heard to lament
her infirmity of speaking in her sleep, adding, how
fortunate it was that she did not sleep among the
other servants, as they teased her enough about it
as it was-"*
'
Abercrombie, tdtup. pp. 296, &c.
( h
CHAPTER XVIII.
IN some of the preceding cases, it must have been
observed, the peculiar phenomena of somnam-
bulism, although, upon the whole, of a pretty uni-
form character, are more distinctly manifested than
in others. Sometimes, too, only one or two of
these phenomena are
developed, while the others
do not appear at all, or are
only slightly noticed.
These peculiarities may arise from the degree in
which the patient is aR`ected, from the opportunities
afforded for experiment and observation, and from
the knowledge and tact of the observers. But from
the circumstance that a
particular phenomenon has
not been 'noticed in any one case, we are not en-
titled to conclude that it might not have been de-
veloped, had proper means been employed to as-
certain its existence. It is only of late that pro-
fessional men have obtained any thing approaching
to an
adequate knowledge of the nature of _this af-
fection, and of the best means of investigating the
vol.. 1. G g
ass )
`
1;-
j
We
854 ANIMAL uaeusrxsu.
phenomena it presents. Previously, only such ap-
pearances were, in general, observed, as
might hap-
pen to be accidentally manifested.
The readers of the former edition of this publi-
cation may remember that, in the Appendix (now
No. II.), there was inserted, amongst others, a short
account of a case of Catalepsy, which occurred in
the hospital Della Vita, at Bologna. The follow-
ing very remarkable case ot' spontaneous wtalepsy
and ecstasy combined, -was also observed, at .the
same place, by MM. Carini 'and Ja Vileontig- and
by M. Maazeeorati. I extract-the interesting ee=
count givenof this cms in'the~LA1rce'r for' 1832*
83 (vol. xxiii. pp. 668, &e.)- . . . _ . .
The patient was'a female of -twenty-i=ve'yeUs of
age. I shall omitthe medical description
the morbid symptoms, and-proceed; atonoe, eo=||o»
tice the phenomena which were manifested.
The 'body was altogether insensible- eventto the
most intense and painful physical impressions;
During the first twenty-one days, the eyes were cons-
pletely shut. In the second period ofthe disease, elae
openedthem, but slwkeptthemmotabnless, turned-td.
wdfds the light, and ineensible to all the' impreleioilb
sought to be communicated tothem. M. Mazlacorati
soon perceived- that some singular 'faculties were.
developed in the patient during this state, and, in
concert with M. Carini, he tried a series of expe.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 855
riments, the marvellous :Quits oft which were the
following.,
Phenomena qf Condition.-The 'patient heard no
sound, however loud, which 'reached her by the
ears;~but9f`shewmspohenw,-evenintlwlowed
whisper, directedonthe hobw qfthe hand, or00lnQf
th¢_M~¥0Yl~¢l|&]2it qfthe stomacI|,for'alongtl|etrq;hd
¢y"tlae sympathetic meme, the heardpre/éctlg-the words
addreuedito her. It westhesame, ii; while speak,
ing to her in a
whisper, .the speaker her
hand to any of theplales abovmmentionedtw But,
stranger-still, she hestd also when the person* ad-
dressing her was
ouiyin distant mediate 'oommuni
cation, with the surface of the body; 'Amid a crowd
of experiments, which 'leave no doubt of this fact,
it will suice te-mentionvone in which the chain
was of' four~ persons, three of whom held each
others* hands, end the fourth communicated with
the the- interpositieu of n very long wax-
teper; the- first of-the chain, mein while, _being the
in eontect -with the petiens.
'
Under
amscimmmm, sheheerd ~p¢rfm1y¢h° whim
pers of the fourth pereonpronmmced at ai consider-
abledistanee. _
Phenomena efSpeech.--The petiehs whem left, _to
heneli, kept constant silence; bet, .when interro-
gated in the mnner above mentioned, she answered'
with -perfect lproprietyl, al-wsys= .i1se of <
the
356 ANIMAL Mmurrrsu.
wne of voice of her questioner. IL during her
answer, the immediate contact was broken, or the
chain interrupted, she stopped suddenly, but the
instant the communication was re-established, she
finished her discourse, w'ith this remarkable cir-
cumstance, that she took it up at the point where
it would have arrived, had there been no interrup-
tion. It seems, then, that the answer was combined
in her mind even while the external connexions
were
suspended, and that, during this suspension,
the vocal organs became paralyzed.
Phenomena ey" Natural or Magnetic va§nbu._With
her eyes closed, or even handaged, she recognised
things, and their colours, when placed on the regions
where this special sensibility existed. She pointed
out to the in tant the hours and minutes on
every
watch. She often, but not always, succeeded in
reading words written on
paper. Later in the dis-
ease, this faculty became still more
prodigiougly
developed. It suiiiced to call her attention to any
object placed in her room, or in the next room, or in
the street, or outflfthe ¢Wm,0r even atenormousdis-
tances, to have it described by her as
perfectly as
if she saw it with her eyes. The following are some
experiments suflicient to prove this assertion._In
presence of a celebrated professor of the University,
it was agreed to ask her to describe a convent in
the town, into which neither herself nor any of her
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 857
interrogators had ever entered. Next, to describe
a cellar in a
country house, equally unknown to
the questioners. According to the descriptions she
gave, plans were designed, and on the places being
visited, they were found to correspond perfectly
with the designs made by her dictation. She even
pointed out the number and position of some
barf
rels in the cellar. In the same sitting, the Profesf
ser questioned her respecting the arrangement of
his study. Her answers were of the most perfect
exactitude. The following questions and answers,
for example, are extracted from the notes taken on
the occasion :-" What is in such a corner P" "
A
table."-" And on the table ?" "
A book."-" And
on the book ?" "
A slrull."-" Of what P" "
Of
an animal."-" Of what animal P" "
I don't know
its name; but if you pronounce it among many
others, I can tell you." In fact, on
mentioning
the names of many animals, she allowed several to
pass, and instantly stopped at thc panther, to which
animal the skull actually belonged. It is remark-
able, with re pect to names of things and persons
unknown to her, that she always pursued the same
method, and thus obtained an almost intuitive
knowledge thereof.
She described also, with the same facility, the
healthy and diseasedparts qfher ownpercon, and qf
other individuals. The Prgyessor already mentioned
358 Annan. ausulznsu.
subectedber tb an anatomical ezasninatuba, vii!!!
inLatin(aIanguageq"whicl|sbe waspcrjécdyig-
norant)andaon|eta3nes in Itahbgbutaboqe wing
acnentafc nomenclature. He obtained nh repqnod
exact asm-spam, in Italian, of.:/»e hun-ami inq-
pendages,tlaeaolarplezus,thepancreae,the_}6retva=
tebra or atlas, the mastmki apoplcysis, Qc. Siu also
qfa lady she didnot know. After this, the reader
will scarcely be astonished when we add, that she
described, with equal facility, places pointed `outto
her in Rome, Paris, and Naples.
During the period in which her eyes-remained
open, and her pupils motionless and turned towards
the light, the experimentalists believed that they
observed that the optic axis had become clectmmee
ters of prodigious sensibility, since they tumed
constantly and immediately to the side where the
smallest friction was exercised capable of produc-
ing electric tension. They thus perceived electric
operations performing in an
adjacent room. Fi.
nally, they followed, like a magnetic needle, the
movements of a
magnetic bar behind the patienfs
head, or even at the other side of a wall.
Phenomena qf Smell and Taste.-Odorous sub-
stances were discovered by the patient with the
same promptitude and precision. At the moment
they were placed on the sensitive regions, she
AJHLIAL Massnrism 859
named them, or, if she had no
previous 'lmow-ledge
of the name of the substance applied, she recog-
nised the name
among many others- pronounced
before her. The much presented analogous quaf
lities. When a substance wasplaced -on a sensi-
tive region, sherecognised it as- perfectly as could
be done by the most delicate hands.
The Intellect, sutliciently acute in its natural
state, was much more so during the cataleptic ac-
cess. Although she was acquainted enlylwith the
four rules of arithmetic, she succeeded, under the
catalepvie influence, in extracting several roou-of
numbers; amongst others, that of the number 4965.
However, this experiment was
notduvariably sue-
cessful. She exposed with- much lucidity several
philosophical systems, and discussed others pro-
posedtohen- Shediecofveredanddeacribedtheplaases
ofher own disease. At present, the patient is per-
fectly cured, having had recourse to no
remedy
whatever; but the cataleptic access can be now
voluntarily reproduced and terminated. She has
pointed out means by which analogous phenomena
maybe occasioned- in other persons. The observers
propose to make known all these discoveries in a
work they are
preparing on the sulgieet*
This is unquestionably a
very extraordinary, al.
though hy no means a singular case.
My readers
°
I am not aware whether any such work ha yet appeared.
360 Anwar. lnezuvrlsx.
may compare it with the numerous
experiments
made by Dr Petetin at Lyons, as detailed in the
Appendix, with the case
reported by Dr Joseph
Frank, and with several others, in which the af-
fection appears to have been developed in its high-
est degrees. Deception in these instances is totally
out of the question, and there can be no doubt as
to the competency of the observers.
I am
happy to observe, that some of our own
most
respectable medical practitioners are now be-
ginning to pay some degree of attention to the in-
teresting phenomena of catalepsy and somnamhu-
lism, which hitherto they had, in general, either
totally disregarded, or been accustomed to treat
with contemptuous scepticism, as
pretended mi-
racles and impostures. In a recent clinical lec-
ture on a case of catalepsy, which occurred in the
Jervis Street Hospital, Dublin, by Mr Ellis, and
published in the Lancer (Saturday, May 2. 1885),
the ingenious lecturer, after describing the usual
symptoms of the cataleptic affection, and alluding
to the Bologna case, already reported, observes,
that "
this and similar statements are doubtless
well calculated to put our credulity to the test;
but when we call to mind the extraordinary phg.
nomena which occur in cases of somnambulism,
and what we have ourselves witnessed in the ease
of Mrs Finn, we are not, in my opinion, justified
362 nrnnx. lucarnsl.
todirsctyour attmtiontoalewcsss, in ordsrtu
prove the inilusncsufsympatheticimi.ta1ion,ssd
of Animal Magnetism, in causing these diseases'
Mrlillisthen refes'stotheBolognaease,pub-
lished in the Gazette .Medicaleof Paris, for Novem-
ber mae, md which win he found, along withs
variety of others, in the Appendix to this work
(No. II.), and also to that of Mrs Finn, who be-
came decidedly hysterical, in consequence of con-
stantly sitting with an
hysterical -girl. Hr Elli
proceeds:
"
The advocates of Animal Hagnethm
allege that they can, bythe exercise ufeertsin ms-
nueuvres of the hand, conducted to their
system, produce ecstasy in such persons as may -he
subjected to its influence. Many cases in support
of the truth of their doctrine have been publish-
ed ;" and the lecturer then refers to the case re-
ported by M. Fillazzi in his inaugural thais, which
I shall give at length in a
subsequent part of this
work, when I come to canvass the opinions of M.
Andral. Upon that most remarkable and most
decisive case, Mr Ellis makes the following truly
philosophical commentary.
"
However incredible
or
surprising this narrative may appear at the ii;-st
blush, yet, when we bear in mind that it has bgn
authenticated by a
physician of character, who had
been himself an unbeliever in the doctrines of Ani.
mal Magnetism, we should not, in my opinion, be
ANIHAL IIAGNETIBII. 888
justified in -doubting his vaneity. Our knowledge
of the laws .of the animal economy is lllt yet suf-
ficiently perfect to warrant our disbelief in the
possibility of certain phenomena, merdg on the
grounds .that we did net ourselves witness their
occurrenee, or beneuse theycsmot be satisfactorily
explained according to our present notions of phy-
siology and pathology. For my own pant, I have
made it .a rule to -receive -all information on these
ahstruse but very interesting subjects, with feel-
ings of impartiality, being uniniluenced byprecon-
eeived theories, and, I trust, not being hypereriti-
cally sceptical ef the statements of others, and to
wait patiently in all matters of doubt, with the
hope that time, the growing intelligence of the age,
and the advancement of science, will speedily dis-
pel the obscurity."
Mr Ellis than :proceeds tsreport the case of Mrs
Finn, who was treated in the Jervis Street Hospi-
tal. It was a case of catalepsy, and presented
many of the phenomena which we have seen oc-
curring in other instances--such as
insensibility
to external stimuli, the transference -of sensation,
8»c. "
An Eolian was
played close to her ear, but
she seemed to be unconscious of what was
doing;
her head was then placed .over a bucket, and some
cold water was dashed upon her. She screamed
violently, but did not become conscious. She was
364 armnx. naessrisns.
spohentoon¢l|eepigasb'iua|,¢hcpabnsq°tl|ehaadr,
andtlieeolesqftlwjéa- When she recovered
from the fit, on being questioned as do whether
she had heard the music, or
any person speaking,
or if she felt the water, she answered by euyns in
the negative." For a considerable period, she was
deprived of the faculty of speech, but recovered it
after vomiting. At a subsequent period, when ber
complaint appears to have become much modified,
"
she stated, that having been thinking over va-
rious matters which had occurred to her during
the last two months, she recollected having heard
a voice one day on the pit of the stomach while
she was in a fit, and consequently otherwise insen-
sible. On the occurrence of the first cataleptic
attack after this communication, she was
spoken
to on the epigastrium as
previously; and on the
subsidence of the fit, she could repeat with accu-
racy every word addressed to her through this re-
gion. This experiment was often repeated, and
always attended with similar results. She could
hear the lowest whisper, or even* the ticking of a
watch. However, she was incapableof distin-
guishing between the voices of diferent persons
who spoke to her. She stated, that the voice ap-
peared to her as if it issued from a barrel, and
that she could form no idea whatever of the state
she was in."
ANIMAL Maenmxsu. 365
It were exceedingly desirable that we
possessed
many such intelligent and philosophical practi-
tioners as Mr Ellis ;-men who would not disdain
to interrogate Nature, and to listen to reason, in-
stead of having their opinions constantly regulated,
and their views cramped, by an obstinate adhe-
rence to preconceived notions.
'
ll-H
l
Jil
r
it
Mil.
l
v !
n
Eli;
W
'
(956f
CIIAPTERXIX.
I suau. adduce only one other instance of the
natural somnambulism. The case is one of recent
occurrence. It is so
exceedingly interesting in it-
self, illustrates so many of the characteristic phe-
nomena of the affection under discussion, and was
so
carefully observed by a competent and skilful
physician, that I am induced to enter much more
fully into its details, than I have done in the pre-
ceding instances. The following account is ex-
tracted from a long and minute report by Dr Bel-
den, the medical attendant upon the patient, in the
American Journal qf the Medical Sciences, No. 28,
for August 1834-_
Jane C. Rider, in the seventeenth year of her
age, subject to frequent headachs, was first at-
tacked izvith the singular afection about to be de-
scribed, on the night of the 24th of June. Dr
Belden, who was called in, found her struggling to
get out of hed, and complaining much of pain in
the left side of her head. Her face was flushed,
head hot, eyes clo ed, and her pulse much excited.
368' Annual. l|AeNn1'|s|.-
She then cut the bread, placed it regularly on the
plate, and divided the slices in the middle; In
fine, she went through the whole operation of pre-
paring breakfast, with as much _precision as
could in open day; and this wlth ha' eyes closed,
and without any ~light except that of one
lamp,
which was
standing in the room, to enable the fa-
mily to observe her operations. During the whole
time, she seemed to take no notice of those around
her, unless they purposely stood in her way, or
placed chairs or other obstacles before her, when
she avoided them, with an
expression-of impatience
at being thus disturbed. She finally returned vo-
luntarily to bed, and on _finding the tabk arranged
_/brbreahfastwhenshe made her appearance _in the
morning, inquired why she had been su_fercd.to skep,
while another had performed her duty. None of the
transactions ofthe preceding nighthad left the slught-
est impression on her mind.
After this, the paroxysms became more
frequent.
Sometimes she did not leave her room, but was
occupied in looking over the contents of her trunk,
and arranging the different articles of dress. She
occasionally placed things where she. could not _find
them; when awake, but. some circumstances. induced
the belief that the knowledge of their situation was
restored in asubsequentparoxysm. In one instance,
she disposed of her needle-book where she could
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 869
not afterwards discover it; but after some time
had elapsed, she was found one night in her cham-
ber, sewing a ring on the curtain with a needle
which she must have procured from the lost
book. ~
The entire paroxysm was sometimes passed in
bed, where she sung, talked, and repeated passages
of poetry. _
Oncevshe imagined herself at Brattle-
borough, spoke of scenes and persons with which
shewas acquainted there, and described the cha-
racters of certain, individuals with great accuracy
and shrewdness, and imitated their actions so ex-
actly as to produce a' most comical effect.
Generally, her conceptions relative 'to place were,
to a certain extent, correct-those relating to time
were
very commonly inaccurate. She almost inva-
riably supposed it was day : hence her common re-
ply,when reminded it was time for her to retire, was
-" What! go to bed in the day-time ?"-Still her
movements were always regulated by the senses, and
not_byher preconceived notionsqfthings. Her cham-
ber was contiguous to a hall, at one
extremity of
which was the stair-case. At the head of the stair
was a door, which was usually left open, but which
was once closed after she was
asleep, and fastened
by placing the blade of a knife over the latch. On
getting up, she rushed 'impetuously from her room,
afukwitholdstopping, reached out herhand belive
910 Annu. lnssmzlsnr.
ahs¢a|netoth¢door,aeizedtl|¢bq)'i¢, clndlkroedngit
ialignantlyondcejbar, avcklisld, "Wkydoyeu
wiehtofasten mein?"
`Allusion» has been made to her sewing in the
dark, and circumstances render it almost certain
that she must at thi time llve tireldei her uealle
also. Some time after tliie occurrence, she con~
ceived the plug during; pafoxysm, of making a
bag, in which, ls' sl! said, to boil some-
&0WG9'b$3$|lm"f¢ldll06*¥il'¢fNKih
which there was barely Iuylit cnwgi tb' enable oders
toperceiee vhatshe wasdaut; aldq/%rvufds, de
same nighgshewasaeentbdaituithhereyeschued.
Is this condition, sbs eomphtel do kg; and,
though aittle puckered, s she observei, it still
answerer! very well to boil tie squash in. In' one
instance, shenotonlyarrangedthemblujiraaleal,
but awtuallyprepared a dimer inthe négkt, wit# ller
eyes chased. She first went into the cellar in the
dark, procured the vegetables, washer) eueh- kim!
separately, brought in the weed* ané manic adirem
While they were being boiled, she corlpkfeef the ar-
rangements of the table, am! then proceeded totry
the vegetables, to ascertain whether they were sui-
eienily cookedt After repeated trials, she observed
the smallest of them were dime--she took than
up, and, after waiting a little, said the rest woulil
tio, and took them up also; They were
actudly
ANIMAL Mserwrxsm. 871
very well cooked. She then remarked that S., a
little girl in the mmily, ate milk, and procured a
bowl for her-she also procured one for herself,
and ate it. As the family did not set themselves
at table, she became impatient, and complained
that the men never were ready for their dinner.
Wlule engaged ah her preparations, she observsda
lang:-burning inthe room, and it, nys
ing,sl|e did net hosvwlypezpk wishedlnlzsepa
lamp bumiry in the day-time. On requested
to go to hed, she alleging thatitiu
In tlu morning, she appeared as usual, fatally uncon-
scieusqfthetransactiomofthepreeeiingnight
At the eemmeneenent of a pamxysl; she sp-
pesred tea spectaserlihe a person geingquietlyte
sleep. therespirstieas beeune
lslg and deep, her attitude, and themetions of the
heed, resembled these of a
person in a
profound
slumber. Her manner difered exceedingly in dif-
ferent paroxysms. Sometimes she engaged in her
usssl occupations, and than her motions were re-
markably quick and impetnous-she moved with
astonishing rapidity, and accomplished whatever she
zdcmptedwulhaederilyqfsolaiclshewuseltbrlyin-
capable in her natural state. She frequently sat in
a rocking chain, at times nodding, and then moving
herheadfromsideteside,with-aldndofnenens
uneasiness, the hand and fingers being, at the ssme
372 ANIMAL Msanarxsm.
time, affected with .a sort of involuntary motion.
In`the intervals of reading and talking, and even
when engaged in these very acts, her nods, the ex-
pressions of her countenance, and her apparent in-
sensibility to surrounding objects, forced upon the
mind the conviction' that she was
asleep. Pain in
a circumscribed spot on the left side of the head
was generally, if not always, an attendant on the
paroxysm, and frequently occasioned a
degree of
suffering almost beyond endurance.
`
To this spot
she invariably ;pQimd`u' the _seat of her agony,
when she repeatedthe expression,
"
It ought to be
cut open-it 'ought _to be-cut open."*
~
_Her eyes were generally closed, but at times they
werew§delyopen,andt}zep1ipilwasthenve1jz/consi-
derably dilated. These dgfercnt states of the eye
seemed to nodzference in the power qfseeing
-she saw apparently as well when they were chased
as she did when they were open.1- ~
'
Without intending to cast the slightest imputation upon the
respectable medical attendant on this young lady, and at the
risk of exposing myself; perhaps, to the ridicule of the whole
profession, I have no hesitation in saying that, in myhumble
opinion, the wish of the patient ought to have 'been complied'
'ith,>and an operation, if possible, performed. It is one of the
many extraordinary circumstances
`
attending somnambulism,
that no medicine nor mode of treatment prescribed by a patient,
in that state, has ever been known to operate injuriously; on
the contrary, it generally does good; while the neglect of such
prescriptions frequently produces bad consequences.
`
1- In my original abstract of this case, I omitteds passage in
snxusx. Mscmwrrsm. B73
There is abundant evidence that she recollected,
during a paroxysm, circumstances which occurred in
aformer attack, though there was no renaembrancerf
them in the interval. A single illustration will suf-
fice, though many more might be given. In a
pa-
roxysm, a
lady who was
present placed in her hand
a
bead-bag which she had never seen before. She
Dr Belden's Report which here follows, because it appeared to
me to describe a solitaryphenomenon, probably depending upon
some peculiarity in this patient, from which no general conclu-
sion could be legitimately deduced. I have since learnt, how-
ever, that the matter has been viewed by others ln a dill!-:rent
light; and I, therefore, insert the passage here, lest I should be
thought to have suppressed any circumstance 'material to the
explanation of the case.
In order to test the sensibility of the eye, the reporter took
one evening s small concave mirror, and held it so that the rays
proceeding from a
lamp were reflected upon her closed eye-lid.
When the light was so dimmed that the outline of the illumi-
nated space could scarcely be distinguished, it caused, the mo-
ment lt fell on the eye-lid, a shock equal to that produced by an
electrlc battery, followed by the exclamation: "
Why do you
wishto shoot me in the eyes ?" This experiment was repeated
several times, and was always attended with the same result. It
was also tried when she was awake, and the effect, though less
striking, was very perceptible. The same
degree of light
thrown on the reporter's eye-lids occasioned no
pain. _
Understanding that attempts had been made to construct
some theory upon the above-mentioned facts, I think it rlght to
put my readers in possession of the following observation of
Professor Kluge:
"
Most frequently the magnetic treatment produces an ex-
cited sensibility in the optic nerve, and a sensation of burning
in the eyes, accompanied with flashes of light, or a convulsive
twitching ofthe eye-lids."-Kumi, p. 863. -
874 ANIMAL mumsrzsu.
examined it, named theeolours, and compared them
with those of a bag belonging to a ladyin the family.
The latter bag presented to her in a subse-
quent paroxysm, the recollection of the former
was restored--she told the colours of the beads,
and made the same remarks respecting the com-
parative value of the two bags that she had done
before. The reporter had taken measures to sa-
tisfy himself in the interval that she then remem-
bered nothing of the first impression.
At the termination of a.
paroxysm, she sunk into
a
profound sleep. The frown disappeared from
her brow, the .respirations again became long and
deep, and the attitude was that of a
person in un-
disturbed slumber. She soon began to gape and
rub her eyes, and the e motions were
repeated after
hort intervals of repose. In the course of fifteen
or twenty minutes from the first appearance of
these symptoms, she opened her eyes, when recol-
lection was at once restored. She then invariably
reverwd to the time and place at which the attack
commenced, and in rw instance, when under the care
ofthe reporter, manwzsted any knowledge of the time
that had elapsed, or the circumstances which tran-
spired during the interval.
The family in which Jane lived were
early con-
vinced, from the confidence with which she moved
about, and the facility with which she always
-
ANIMAL Mscmzzrlsu. 875
avoided obstacles, that she sow both when hereyes
were closed and in the dark; but no
experiments
were instituted to determine the fact until the
evening of the 10th of November, when it was
pro-
posed to ascertain whether she could read with her
Shewasseatedinacornerqfthe room, _thelighh
were placed at a distance from her, and so screened
as an leave her in almost entire darkness. Inthissi-
tuation, she read with ease agreatnumber qfearda
which werepresented to her, some qfwhich were writ-
tenwithapencil, andso obscurely, that inajizint
light no trace could be discerned by common eyes. She
tohlthereparterthedateqfcoius, even
whentlteji.
gures were nearly obliterated. A visitor handed hera
letter, with the request that she would read the motto
on the seal, which she readily did, although several
persons present had been unable to decyplmr it south
thetaidqfalamp. fllaewhole-qfthis timeher eyes
were, to all appearance, frmly closed.
Upon one occasion, she fell asleep while her phy-
sician (the reporter) was
prescribing for her, and
her ease
having now excited considerable interest,
she was visited during that and the following day,
by probably more than a hundred people. Upon
this occasion she did not awake until fortyeight
hours after the attack. During this time, she read
agreatvanetyqfcardswrittenandpresentedtolaer
876 ammax. mscfunrxsm.
by dgferent individuals, tohithetime bywatches, and
wrote short sentences.
»
For greater security, a second handkerchief was
sometimes placed below the one which shewore
constantly over her eyes, but apparently without
causing any obstruction to the vision. She also
repeated, with great proprietyand distinctness, se-
`veral pieces -of poetry, some of which she had
learned in childhood, but had forgotten, and others
which she had merely read several times since,
without having ever committed them to
memory.
In addition to this, she sung several songs, such as
"'
Auld Lang Sync," and "
Bruce's Address to his
army," with propriety and correctness. Yet she
never learned to sing, and never had been known
'to ing a tnnewhen awake.
On the 20th ofNovember, the reporter took a large
black silk handkerchief; placed between the _folds two
piecesqfcotton batting, andapplieditinsuchaway
that the cotton came directly over the eyes, and com-
pletely jilled the cavity on each side of the nose-the
silk was distinctly seen to be in cbse contact with the
skin a
Various names were then written on cards,
both ofpersons with whom she was acquainted, and
ofthose who were unknown to her, which she read as
soon as they were presented to her. This' was done
by most of the persons in the room. In reading,
she always held the paper, the right side up, and
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 877
brought it into the line of vision. The cards were_
generally placed in her hand, for the purpose of
attracting her notice; but when her attention was.
excited, she read equally well that which was held~
before her by another. _ .
A
Being desirous, if possible, to prove that the eye
was
actually closed, the reporter took two large
wads of cotton, and placed them directly on the
closed eye-lids, and then bound them on with the
handkerchief before used. The cotton filled the.
cavityunder the. eye-brow, came down to the middle'
of the cheek, and was in close contact with the
nose. The former experiments were then repeated,
without any diference in the result. She also took
a
pencil, and while rocking in her chair, wrote her
own name, each word separately, and dotted the i.
Her father, who was
present,fasked her to write
his name.
"
Shall I write Little 'Billy or' Stiff
Billy ?" was her reply, imagining that the question
was
proposed by a
little__boy of the name of Wil-
Bidy-the two words without connexion, and after
writing them both, she went back and dotted -the
i in each. ~
She then wrote Springfield under them,
andf after observing it a moment, smilingly re-
marked that she had left out a letter, and inserted
the I in the proper place. At another time, a
vor..r.. _
_
._ ii _
liam, belonging to the family. She wrote Staff
sq* AIIIIALL HABNETISM.
gmtlvomn pxveeeutxrnolse his namoin charaehenssol
small (hit no onmeli- oould ditinguish it at the
u||xal»&hmne iromtheeya Aesoomastho pope:
weeput into her ham# she pmnouueedtluonanne.
Although she was closely watched; noatkmptftoopen
the eyes use observed ~
almost only paroxyvm, sho- repeated
poetry- am] sung, and though there awsome-
pieoee
whicl she- nest: have repeated il thiswrayfsooros
o£ times, helkuswledge of them when she-isafwabo
is not in- thehun! implovedlby thopractice. These
experiments were'
p1i`hrmod= in the pnoseuce of? so-
vnniof theemosl meepschhlo lllkinhliigaut genib-
mea in 0lIl', and dmywem alieonximed theme
comleb he no _
While in. a
panoxysl, the lighiswreie ¥0ll.DVd
from hen noon, and thviqdawe so secsroi that;
no. object wal discernible. 'l'w|o» looks wen than
presented to hon, ,
which had boon selected; for lk
purpose; elm immediately hold the tihlnsiof boi,
though one of them was a book she hair. never seem
bofone..
The room, in. the front part of the housosha hai
never- seen, erxooyt for a. iivw moments sexoml
months before. The shutters were closed; md itz
was so. dark that. it was,
imponibh fox: any one-
possessing only ordinary powers o£ vision to die-
tingui h the colours on the carpet. She, however,
ANIMAL mAGNn'r1sm. 379
though' her eyes were bandaged, noticed ani com-
mented upon the various articles of fmuitwq and
pointed. out the different oolbursin. the hearth-rug.=
She also. took up ami read= several oazrdw which
weve»lyiug'en thewtshlb. Soon after, observing hee
with e; skein of thread in her hami, Ik Belden of-
fered! to holé it for her to wind. She
planed il: on his: bends, |nd> tookr hoidof the end; of
the-thread; in a manner which satisfiecl him that
she saw it, andcomplebsd the operation* asskiliol-
ly amd: veaéily as-if she were awake. lllving loft
the room a moment; the Doctor founii her, enf his
revurm, with her needle threaded; md# llemming a
onmbriwhundimrchief. Bryant"sPoems were given:
to-her; she- opened the book, and tuning' to-the
Thanatopaih, read thefwllole (three pages), andv the
most of its with great propriety. _
Au dinner; she Hook her seatit the.tahle,ihelpei
herselfto-Bread' when i`t was oiered, presentedher
tnmbler for watiergsand, thmoghoutrtflse whelentine,
din) not, by her manner er actions; betray the least
want of sight.
~
Wiel- a. bhselc sill llnneihenliel etnndbdwitah cot-
ton bound ever her eyes, she wrote-a part of the
Snow Storm, one
ofthe~pieees she waswin the habit
oF repeating when: asleep A pemom standiughe-
kiwi: her wry: carefully ihtenposei!mpiece of brown
paper behweem hereyel and the paperen whielmehe-
3801 ANIMAL MAGNETISM. -
was
writing. Whenever this was done, she ap-~
peered disturbed, and exclaimed-"Don't, don't."
During a
paroxy m, she went into a dark room,
and selected from. among several letters, having
different directions, the one-bearing the name she
was requested to find.; She was heard to take up
one letter after another, and examine it, till she
came to the one for which she was in search,.when
she exclaimed,
`
"
Here it is," and brought it out.
She also, with her eyes bandaged, wrote of her
own accord two stanzas of poetry on 'a slate; the
lines were straight and parallel. V
1 -, 1
-
She occasionally exhibited an
_extraordinary
power of imitation. This extended not only tothe
manner, but to the languageand sentiments of,the
persons whom _
she personified : and her perfor-
mances in this way.were so
striking," andher con-
ceptions of character so
just, that nothingcould be
more comical.
'
This, like her otherleretraordinary
powers,1was confined to her somnamlrulist state-at
other times,~sl|e did not exhibit the slightesttrace
qu.
f
'
Like other somnambulists, she appeared fatigued,
md her: morbid- symptoms were
-
manifestly aggra~
vated, by the constant trialsof her powers.
~~In one of her paroxysms, she lost a book, which
she could not .afterwards find.
`
Next. day, imme-
diately?on' theoaccess of the paroxysm, she wentzto
Q
animal. Macwzrisu. 881
the sofa, raised the cushion, took up the book, and
commenced reading. Her eyes were covered with
a white handkerchief, folded so as to make eight or
ten thicknesses, and the spaces below the bandage
filled with stripes of black velvet. ,
She then took
abook and read audibly, distinctly, and correctly,
nearly a
page. It was then proposed to her to play
backgammon. She said she knew nothing of the
game, but consented to learn it. She commenced
playing, with the assistance of one
acquainted
with 'the moves, and acquired a
knowledge of _the
game very rapidly. She handled the men and dice
with: facility, and counted off the points correctly;
She liad another paroxysm in the afternoon, in which
she played a 'number of-games of -backgammon,
and made _such proficiency, that, without any as-
sistance, she won the sixth game of Dr Butler, who
is an
experienced player. Knowing her to he a
novice, he suggested several alterations in her
moves¢-theseialterations ,she declined making, and
the result showed the correctness of her judgment.
The Doctor, a little mortiiied at being beaten by a
sleeping girl, tried another game, in which she
exerted all his skill. At its close, she had but three
men left on the board, and these so situated that a
single move would have cleared the whole. While
she was engaged in this game, an apple was taken
from a dish, in which there were several varieties,
8821 nmna. anouzrrrsm
and hold Before hen, but Qian' than' her eyes On-
hsirrg asked- its eoloul; sbs! raised hor head, like a-
porsou whswishedtasnum object mlittlo slant.-
odtmdsgsvo aeolrestmsworto-thoquosdon. Im
the lucid iatervahhnlf as houl after sho awoke
fiom the plroxysm, itwns proposed tailor to #y
hohgunuon. She observed she never
uv'it.pl|y-
gd; mdi was wholly ignorant all the game. Om
winlg, it mm found tht she could not esvom sob th:
inn. _
_
A11 anotheu time, she: opened her syn; and dm
died thatsheeowld not soewhen tllyvnn lht.
Who! reading, the Becton placed his 6l§¢l'S on
hav egos--slam laid# immediately' itwasw totd diml-
nuly and sho. could not read' a,_ wood. At_dinnog_
hot oyns were open, and alla the familysupposodz
l|o°a,walte;f but she daslhred in tho-evenitg-tbl
sho-had not the lomtrecollection of dinimg; of see-
ing some friends, or of witnessing a.
catastrophaim
the which disturbed tho: whole §1mily,.nmi
ia: which sho was much interested st- I:llo= time..
Soon a5ter this, the Doctor obsevvos that: she avi.-
dmtly had lost han former~aeu.temess ol? sight ;~ Him.
which circumstance it would appean thather lol-
namliulism- had g~rad'ually> boaomoless perfect; and:
this view is corroborated by a
subsequent! state-_
mont, that "lately her face had boon: list Hushd,
and hem head'lB|s pdnful." _ _ '_
» .
/mmm; mmsmssn. -
'
388
Im one of her' paroxysms, she wrote a long and
sensible letter to her aunt, describing lies own si-
tuation She afterwards remembered that she had
vnitim a letter, but could not recollect its con-
U0!t8s
The above is an abstract of the history of this-
very remarkable case-a case so minutely observed,
and so ably reported-a. case in which, the inmlli-
gent Reporter assures us, all idea of imposition- or
deception is precluded. I have omitted'
all those particulars which could be interesting
only to the medical student, and also many insu-
lated circumstances and phenomena which appear-
ed to me to be unimportant. I do not intend to en-
ter iuto any investigation of the theory upon which
the Reporter attempts to account for some of the
phenomena, viz. an excited state of certain por-
tions of the brain. It has hitherto been too much
the practice, in treating of this subject, to build up
a
theory upon some one
solitary fact, or, at least,
upon the circumstances of some single case; where-
as, it appears to me to he much more
philosophi-
cal, and much more
satisfactory in the end, first to
form a suiiicient collection of well-authenticated
cases to constitute a
legitimate basis of induction ;
and then to proceed to classify the phenomena
which may be found to have been manifested in
the whole, or in the greater number of instances.
884| ANIMAL Mmunrlsu.
In the preceding case, we meet with the follow-
ing phenomena: organic insensihility-vision with-
out the exercise of the usual organ-a great exal-
tation of the intellectual faculties, and an entire
oblivion, when awake, of every thing that occurred
during the paroxysm. The phenomenon_ of the
double personality also appears pretty distinctly de-
veloped. To this I formerly alluded, and other
instances of it will occur when I come to treat of
the Magnetic Somnambulism.
A
(385)
~
CHAPTER XX.
Wrru the preceding case I had originally in-
tended to conclude my examples of the natural
somnambulism, conceiving that, with the magnetic
cases to be afterwards adduced, I should have laid
a sufficient foundation for a
generalization of the
phenomena. I have been induced to alter this in-
tention, however, for reason which, I think, will
immediately become apparent; and I am otherwise
not di pleased to have an
opportunity of bringing
under the notice of my readers an
example of one
peculiar species of that remarkable generic affec-
tion which has engaged our attention in the fore-
going pages-the devotional ecstasis.
-
The following curious case is extracted from a
review of M. Auguste de St Hilaire's Tiavels in
the Diamond District qf Brazil, in the 4~2d Num-
ber of the Westminster Review, October 18841. The
Reviewer, like many other persons who write or
speak in total ignorance of the subject, compares
this case with what he is pleased to denominate
vor.. x. lc k
386 ANIMAL uscnnrxsu.
"
the speciosa miracula operated by Animal Mag-
netism in France," which, he coniidentlyassures
us, are "
susceptible of an
easy explanation ; ha-
ving been infact nothing more than a voluptuousjug-
glery, set onfoot and carried on for very intelligible
purposes." -
This is really a very beautiful specimen of the
:lap-daekstyle of criticism, so common
amongst
our ,review-writers, and so
utterly ludicrous to
every man of intelligence and oandour. The Re-
viewer seems to be profoundly _ignorant that the
phenomena-the-specabsa miranda#-to which he
alludes, have occurred, in thousands of instances,
not only in France, but_in Great,-Britain, inGer-
many, in Switzerland, in Italy, in Holland, in-Rus-
sia, in Denmark, in Sweden, in India, in America
-in allparts of Europe-in all quarters of the
globe; that no
voluptuousjugglery is attempted in
the magnetic processes, and that the purpose in
view is merely to heal-the sick. But the critic
evidently did not know what Animal Magnetism
is,_ and wanting the ingenuous modesty which
would have led himeither to acknowledge his ig-
norance, orthe .silent on the subject, and probably
'
It must never be forgotten that it is the unintelligent op-
poneatsandnot theintelllgent advocates of Animal Magnetism,
who designate these phenomena as miracles. The magnetists
consider them as natural occurrences, and endeavour to discover
their causes.
'
ANIMAL MAG-NETIBM' 387
unwilling to let slip so fair an
opportunity of say.
ing something vastly smart, he utters an oracle of
tlippant nonsense. A
The following is the case referred to :-
On the Serra de Piedade, says the traveller, I
saw a woman of whom I had heard much in the
Comarcas of Sabaré. and Villa Rica. Sister Ger-'
maine, thezwornan in question, wae 'attacked about
1808 by an
hysterical aiiiection, accompanied 'by
violent convulsions. She was at first exercised-
remedies mal-adapted-to her complaint were 'made
use of--and her condition degenerated from. bad
to worse. At length, at the- pericdof my visit,
she had for a
long time been reduced to soextreme
a state oi? wealmesa, that she was no longer able-to
rise fromf her bed, and subsiswd .upon a
regimen
which could scarcely have supported -the life of a
new-born infant. Animal food, rich soups and
gravies, her stomach was no longer in a condition'
to receive; Sweetmeats, cheese, a little bread or
Hour, constituted the whole of her food ;--fre-i
quently she was unable to retain what she had
taken;-and it was almost always necessary to
use considerable persuasion to decide her to eat at
all.
A
It was on all hands admitted, that the manners
of Germaine had always been pure, her conduct ir-4
reproachable. During the progress of her disor-
888 ANIMAL Maemrrxsn.
der, her devotion had daily assumed a more en-
thusiastic character. Fridays and Saturdays she
fasted entirely; at first, indeed, her mother op-
posed this practiee; but when Germaine declared
that, during these two days, it was utterly impos-
sible -for her to take any nourishment, she was al-
lowed to have.her own
way, and accordingly, sub-
mitted, on those occasions, to total abstinence. In
order to indulge her devotion for the Virgin, she
caused herself to be transported to the Serra. de
Piedade, where there is aichapel erected under the
auspices of Our Lady of Pity, and she obtained
from her spiritual director permission to remain
in thisasylum. In this retreat, meditating one
day. on the mystery of the' Passion, she. fell into a
kind of ecstasy : her arms
grew stiiii and were
extended inthe form of a cross; her feet were dis-
posed in the same attitude; and in this position
she remained during forty-eight hours. This was
four years ago; and ever afterwards the phenome-
non was
weekly repeated. She relapsed into her
ecstatic attitude on Thursday or
Friday night, and
continued in a. sort of trance until Saturdayeven-
ing or
Sunday, without receiving the slightest nou-
rishment, without speech or movement.
The rumour of this phenomenon quickly. spread
through the neighbourhood; thousands of persons
of all ranks crowded to behold it; it was declared
Ammu. MAGNETISH. 889
to be a
miracle ; Sister Germaine was regarded as
a saint; and two surgeons of the province commu-
nicated an additional impulse to the veneration of
the people, by declaring, in a written document,
that her situation was
supernatural. This decla-
ration remained in manuscript, but was
'widely cir-
culated, and numerous
copies of it were taken.
Dr Gomide, an able physician educated at Edin-
burgh, thought it necessary to refute the declara-
tion of the two surgeons, and, in 1814, published
at Rio de Janeiro (but without his name), a small
pamphlet, replete with science and logic, in which
he proves, by a multitude of authorities, that the
ecstasies of Germaine were
merely the effects of
catalepsy.
'
The public was now divided in opinion; but
crowds of people still continued to ascend the
Serra, to admire the prodigy operated there. Ne-
vertheless Father Cypriano da Santissima Trini-
dade, the late Bishop of Marianna, a
prudent, en-
lightened man, sensible of the inconveniences which
might arise from the numerous assemblies collect-
ed by Sister Germaine upon the mountain, and de-
sirous of discrediting the pretended miracle, from
which there resulted at least as much scandal as
edification, prohibited the celebration of mass at
La Piedade, under pretence that permission had
never been obtained from the kingi Many per-
390 ANIMAL Macuarlsu.
sons offered Germaine an
asylum in their houses:
but she gave the preference to her confessor, a
grave middle-aged man, who resided in the vici-
nity of the mountain. The devotees were greatly
alilicted at the prohibition of the Bishop of Ma-
rianna, but they did notsleep: they solicited from
theking himself permission to celebrate mass in
the Chapel of -the Serrayand it wasagranted them.
Germaine was now transported a second time to
the summit of fthe mountain: her confessor occa-
sionally ascended thither for the celebration of
mass; and the concourse of pilgrims and curious
persons ,was weekly renewed.
A short time previous to my visit, continues
M. de St Hilaire, a new
prodigy began to mani-
fest itself. Every Tuesday she experienced an
ecstasy of several hours; her arms
quitted their
natural position, and assumed the figure of across
behind her back. In the course of my conversa-
tion .with her-confessor, he told me
that, for some
time, he was unable to explain this phenomenon,
until- he at length recollected that on this day it
was-customary to proposetothe meditation of the
faithful- the suffering of Christ bound. The disin-
terestedness and charity of this priest had been 'de-
scribed to me in glowing colours. I had a long
conversation with him, and found him a
person
not altogether destitute of education. He spoke
ANIMAL Maausrlsm. 391
of his penitent without enthusiasm; professed- to
de ire that enlightened men should study her con-
dition; and almost the only reproach he uttered
against Dr Gomide was, that he hadewritten his
book without having seen the holy woman. lf
what thispriest relatedto me ¢y"the ascendency he
possessed over Germaine be not exaggerated, the par-
tizans of Animal Magnetism would probably derive
from it strong arguments in support of their system.
He injlzct assured me, that, in the midst ofthe most
_fearful convulsions, it was always sujicientfor him
totofuehthepatienttorestoreher to perfecttranquil-
lity. During herperiodical ecstasies, when her limbs
were so stgf that it would have been easier to break
than bend them, her oonfessor, according to his own
account, luzdonlytotouehher arm, inorder togive
at whatever position he thought proper. However
this may be, it is certain that, having commanded
her -to receive the sacrament, during one of these
ecstatictrances, she rose with a convulsive move-
ment from the bed on which she had been carried
to the church, and kneeling down, with her arms
crossed, received the consecrated wafer; since which
time she has always communicated during her ec-
stasies. At the same time, her confessor spoke
with extreme simplicity of his empire over the pre-
tended Saint; attributed it wholly to her docility
and veneration for the sacerdotal character; and
S92 ANIMAL MAGNETISM. »
added, that any other priest would 'have beenable
to produce the same effects( With all that con§l-
dence which the magnetizers require in their adapts,
he observed, that so
complete is' the obedience of
the poor girl, that should I command her to abstain
from food during a Whole week, she' would not he-
sitate to comply. He was also persuaded that she
would have suffered no
inconvenience from the ex-
periment, but added, "
I fear I should: be tempting
God by making it." -f ~
'
'
»
"V I requested permission," continues the traveller,
"
to see Germaine, and wasconducted into the small
chamber where she constantly reclined. Her conn-
tenauce was visible, though partly overshadowed
by a large handkerchief which projected over her
forehcad ; she appeared to be about thirty-four
years of age.......... f..Her physiognomy was mild
and agreeable, but indicative of extreme emacia-
tion and debility. I inquired respecting her health,
and she replied, in an
exceedingly feeble voice, that
it was much better than she deserved. I felt her
pulse, and was
surprised to find it very rapid. On
the following Friday, I ,again visited- Germaine.
She was in bed, stretched upon her back, with her
head enveloped in a handkerchief, and her arms
extended in the form of a cross; one of them was
prevented by the wall from occupying its proper
position, the other projected beyond the bed-side,
§J.
'ir
ANIMAL Maensrxsm. 398
and was supported by a stool. Her hand felt ex-
tremely cold, the 'thumb and forefinger were ex-4
tended,.but .the other fingers were bent, the knees
drawn up, and the feet placed over each other. In
this position she was
perfectlyimmoveable; and
her pulse being scarcely perceptible, she mighthave
been taken for a corpse, if the rise and fall of the
bosom in the act of respiration had not indicated
the presence of life. I sometimes attempted to
hand her arms, but without success; the rigidity
of the muscles increased in proportion tomy ef-
forts, which could not have been more violent with~
out inconvenience to the patient. Certainly, I more
than once closed her hands ; but on
releasing the
fingers they .resumed their former position."
Such is the case related by M. de St Hilaire,
which has called forth the sneers of the Westmin-
ster reviewer. As_I have-already stated, it consti-
tutes one instance, among many, of a
specific va-
riety of that organic afection which I have been
attempting toillustrate under. the generic designa-
tion of Natural'Soinnambulism. It presents a spe-
cimen of catalepsy combined with devotional ee-
stasy, of which many other instances might be ad-
duced, were I not afraid of trespassing too much
upon the time and patience of my readers.
The reviewer observes, in conclusion, that "
from
vox.. It L l
394 Amman MAGNETISM.
the circumstances attending this transaction, some
insight may he obtained into the character of the
Brazilians, whose ignorance, eredulity, and super-
stition exceed belief," Now, credulity and super-
stition, in one form or another, are, probably, pretty
equally diffused over the globe ;-witness the fol-
lowers of Joanna Southcote# and the adepts in the
unknown tongues, amongst ourselves ; and the re-
cent case of Robert Matthews, or Mathias, in Ame-
rica. But if -in search of ignorance, the reviewer,
assuredly, did not require to travel quite so far be-
yond the precincts of Westminster. If the pious
Brazilians were mi taken in supposing thatthcre
was any thing miraculous in the case of Sister Ger-
maine, the reviewer is still more
unpardonably
wrong in treating a
,natural occurrence with ridig
cule, and in describing Animal Magnetism as
"
a
voluptuous jugglery." It is equally strangeand
lamentable, that any writer pretending to a
compe-
'
I find from Dr lung-Sti1ling's Theory ofPneumatology, that
parallel cases to that of Joanna Southcote have occurred in Ger-
many.
"
A common servant girl in the north of Germany re-
ceived, while in a tmnce, the commission that she should bring
forth the prince who should bear rule under Christ in his ap-
proaching Hngdom. A married clergyman, and in other respects
a pious man, let himself' be deceived by her# he believed her,
and she really bore a son; but my readers," says the author,
"
may judge whether he will become that to which his mother
had destined him. A similar event took place, a few years ago,
in the south of Germany."
~
Anim/n. Macusrism. 395
tent knowledge of the literature and science of the
age, should not be aware that the ca e above de-
scribed constitutes one of a
pretty numerous class,
the phenomena of which have occasionally attracted
the attention of physicians and philosophers. Itis
part of the business of Animal Magnetism to collect
and classify these cases, and, if possible, by means
of generalization and induction, to explain their
peculiarities, to point out the natural principles
upon which they depend, and thus deprive them of
their miraculous character. In this interesting
philosophical investigation, it is quite provoking to
be met at every corner by the silly sneers of igno-
rance, imbecility, and an irrational incredulity.
END OF VOL- I.
U§ll§ REWELATA:
{_,:`
<'G 'Q{z;1aq11tt3§§ 5
IINTU
V
THE ORIGIN, PROGRESS, ANI) PRESENT STATE
/5 -/'S
W
"`
/`_
Znr1ualf§_fIag1rts\1.¢ ~
BY
,
_
J. F, ('2()IL-UFUIFNDUN, þÿ3lDT(9 ¬('A'1`E.
fl", R.S,H§.
,
V
,M _
_
gf _' i '
/
sf" ',-
`
`
> (yv- »
-I _
'
` `
l' _,
4-
'
/,
"ui Sf? @
'
n 'Ili Q l
W," he
'E ~
ff"
'
A"
A
Ill' *1 '.
`
»
"U:
419
-» -.1 5
fx _
' *Q* --
S
ff .gn @'
S
-
_
-»;'-ifgjf
~ ; f- »
---;-
&
,
S
-
¢~=¢f~
f
'
-_ SA"» N
"
`
"3 ', _
-
jr-_L A;§;,'7f3f§2T§;fj`5;§fjj, ` f
1, ._ -~x__»,~ 4. 'ii|L= &~T gf ' L
Q L
'
3.3
"
~..;" |_=_'? 'ii þÿ=:` ¬!`f
¢':'.
'I
v v
UBL, :IL
D VB(iFCCH_ MA - A. '_1.`Y¥_N _'\
AND BALDWIN (`°<lD)K_UN`;{\
Isis REVELATA:
AN INQUIRY
THE ONIGIN, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STATE
_
ANIMAL MMAGNEIISM.
QQLQUHOUN,
Z
ADVOCATE, F. R. S. E.
Ingenii comment; delet dies ; mturae judicin con£rmat.&Cxc|:|.o.
Non lingendum, non oxoogitmdum, led inveniendum et observandum
quid Natura faciat aut fent.-Bncou.
VOL. II.
o
EDINBURGH :
MACLACHLAN 8z STEWART;
AND BALDWIN & CRADOCK, LONDON.
`
MDCCCXXXYI.
S
l14}J.i:u 3' if 31175; "inn piys ylywrsa Ilya:
Knix iv rf: Aicsxv' #fun Qigpau 3045:-
Tiv Bi |5155 mfrun xuufpun igyalimg fl
'Axlfiponf xngofv ldv; 'rflnr' 17715.
A
Sonox, apud Stolneunn
Sep dolor tennis morbos produxit werbos,
Tollore quo: nullin sit medieamiqibunz
Sepe din mio jactxtum eorporis :stu
Contictu annum reddidit un.: mmm.
_
Gnorxus.
r -';: rf 5 we
I-21)-f::'f3é§l_)
CONTENTS
VOLUME 11.
. , x.. _ _
Page
CEAPTIB XXI.--General conclusions from the forego-
ing instanms of the natural Somnambulism. Phe-
nomena inexplicable upon the received principles
of Physiology.. SP8-u&lZEl'.i!B experiments on bats.
Sixth sense. Sir Charles Bell's explanation. Other
explanations. Theories-Mesmer. Tardy de Mon-
hsvelr
A
Deleuze. Attention to the facts recom-
mended. .....
Cnnnn. XXII.e-Analogy between the natural and the
magnetic: Somnambnlism. Remarkable phenome~
nanf the latmr. -Evidenceof the French Acadef
micians.: .Facts and authorities independently of
Hagnetism. .Plata Hippocrates.. Aretaeus. Ga-
len, &c. Prophetic faculty. -Ammianus Maroelli-
nus. Athenagoras. St Justin. Cicero. Month-
nns. Jamblichixs. Johnston. Unknowntongues.
Pompenatins. Lemnius. -G'a.inerius..Ficinus. Fo-
restu..xMo1~hof. In Motto le Vayer. Chnrron
Valmius( Manpertuis. Sir Henry Halford. M.
G.Lewis,&c. . _
,_ . . .
~
1
14
CONTENTS.
Cnavrss. XXIII.-Dr Frederic HoB'mann. Subtile
ethereal fluid. Greater power and purity of intel-
lect upon the approach of death, and during sleep.
Explanation of the phenomenon. Prophecy and
use of unknown languages in cataleptic and ecsta-
tic aifections. Cases of Chevalier Folard and of
Isabella Vincent.-Dr Sprengel. Instinct of re-
medies. Prediction in diseases. Case in 1760, re-
ported by Dr Dcscottes. Jung-Stilling. Wien-
holt. Romish ritual. Coleridge. Dr Brandis. Dr
Georget. Opponents of Animal Magnetism.
Cnarrsn XXIV.-Admissions of the first French Com-
missioners. Of Dr Stieglitzof Hanover. Article :
MseNn'r1s1aANn|a1.,in the Dictivnnaire des Sciemxs
Medioalea, by M. Virey. Answer' by M. Deleuze.
Opinions of M. Virey. He admits all the most es-
sential doctrines of Animal Magnetism. Sympa-
thetic iniiuence at a Case recorded by
Marguerite de Valoia, Queen of Navarre.
`
Transfu-
sion oi' the sensitive principle between living bodies.
M. Virey's opinion of the philosophy of the 'pre-
sent age. Living forces. Extraordinary develop-
ment of instinct in certain circumstances( Intui-
tion. Instinct of remedies. M. Virey explains the
phenomena of the Instinct upon the same principle
to which Kluge and others attribute those 'of Som-
nambulism generally. Cerebral .and ganglionic
systems. M. Vireyadmits in man, lst, an intellec-
tual, 2d, a sensitive principle, and 3d, material ele-
ments; and that .the soul acts upon the body
through the medium of a transmissible nervous
fluid. The soul sometimesacquires a
supernatural
development. Distinction between the inteaadual
and the sensitive elements. .The latter secreted in
the brain, descends into the nerves, and is subject
to exhaustion and renewal-. The presence, touch,
CONTENTS.
or words of a' magnetic man capable ofcuring
bodily diseases. State of ordinary life-of dream-
ing or delirium-of ecstatic meditation. Habit of
directing the nervous energies. Power of volition.
Spontaneous motions of the soul. It constitutes
the Natura Msdioatriv of physicians, and mecha-
nically aspires to restore health. Presentiment.
Prophecy. M. Vireyprobably an Animal Magne-
tizer. .
-
. .
-
. . .
Cnnfrsa XXV.-Phenomena of the magnetic Bomnam-
bulism. M. de Puysegur. M. Tardy de Montra-
vel. Case reported by Dr Wienholt, and witness-
ed by Dr Olbers, the astronomer. Case of Madame
G. by M. de Falieres. Case of M. Baron, reported
by M. Lamy Senart. 'Magnetic consultations.
Two 'young magnetizers-Anthony Tronchon, and
a girl, Virginia. <
Analogous method supposed to
have been employed in the ancient Greek temples.
'Loss and recovery of human knowledge.
`»
Caseof
a. fatuous ladyat Landau. Case reported by a lady
to M. Deleuze." A lady magnetises her physician,
-who prescribes for her while in a state of Somnam-
bulism,' and manifests the faculty of prediction.
Reports of the magnetic treatment of four females,
by M. German; Curate of Saint-Aubin-le-Cloux.
Case of Agnes Burguet, reported by M. de Puyse-
gur. Casereported by the Countess de C. Pre-
diction. Cases reported by Dr Thiriat. Madame
Hugaut's child. Incredulityremoved. Madame
Chevalier. Mademoiselle S. Remarkable instance
of lucidity. Petronilla Leclerc. . .
Cuanna XXVI.-Subject continued. Cases reported
by M. Chardel. Intimate rapport between two ais-
ters. Case of a Femme dc Case of the
.wife of a Colonel of a cavalry regiment.
"
Addi-
vii
48
6-1
viii CONTENTS.
tional particulars of the caseof Madame P., report-
ed by the late French Commissioners. Madame
Lagandré points out the seat of her mothcr's dis-
ease. Her indications verified uponga post-mortem
examination of the body, by M. Cloquet, Dr Cha-
pelain, M. Moreau, Dr Dronsart, &c.,_ Case report-
ed by Professor.Schelling. Case reported by Dr
Amdt. Case of Mademoiselle W., one ofthe most
extraordinary somnambulists and clairmyantea up-
on record, reported by Dr Klein. Prediction of
the death of thelate King of Wirtemberg by two
Snmnambulists. Evidence in favour of the extra-
ordinary phenomena of Somnambulism by the Doc-
ters Georget, Rostan, and Dupotet, &c. _
Cnax>'r:a_XXVIl--Symptoms of olairvoyanoe in Joan
of Arc, Swedenberg, and Jacob Behmen. The £a-
ther of the German poet, Goethe., Extraordinary
andapparently unaccountable nature of the facts
no sudicient reason for rejectingthem in the mee
of the evidence.. Somnambnlism long observed,
but the studyof its phenomena neglected-A state
totally diferent from that of ordinary life-Unin-
tentionally described by the poet Wordsworth.
Cannotbe explained by the laws and conditions of
ordinary life. The study of the phenomena high-
ly interesting to the philosophy of man. Not yet
known or appreciated in Great Britain. Almost
universally admitted upon the Continent. Facts
admitted even by the opponents of the practice.
Pervez-sion of the name of Science, and neglect of
Mental Philosophy in this country. Study of Ani-
mal Magnetism recommended. . .
Cnnrsa- XXVIII.-Utilityof induction and generaliza-
tion. -
Equally applicable to moral as to physical
science.. May be aately applied to the phenomena
CONTENTS.
of AnimalMagnetism. Best method of conducting
the investigation.
`
Transference of vital power in~
capable of explaining the higher magnetic pheno-
mena. No satisfactory reason can be assigned why
Sleep and Somnambulism should be produced by
the processes. It 'only remains for us, therefore,
to classify the phenomena, and to ascertain the ana-
logy between themand other constitutionsleaifec-
tions." Philosophy of Sleep and Dreams. Mani-
festations of spiritual activity without the co-opera-
tion lofthe corporeal organs. Sleep-A-sound and
unsound( Sleep and Coincident
observations of Bishop Hall. of the fre-
quently fantastic' and incoherent nature of our
Difference between the natural- and the
magnetic sleep. Prosecution of the investigation
recommended. _ . . .
Cssrria XXIX.-M.Andral's Lectures on Animal Mag-
netism. M. Andral admits the reality of the spon-
taneous and of the magnetic Somnambnlism. Re-
commends the separation cffacts from the emplana-
tiori of hots. Quotes the first Bologna case, and
the leaseireported by M. Filla.ssier§ of which he ac-
knowledges the authenticity." Rejects the theory
of touching, imitation, and -
Seems dis-
posed toadmit the agency of Animal Magnetism.
Enforces serious attention to the subject, and refers
tothe establishmentofal magneticclinic at Berlin# M.
Andral very ignorant of the evidence# N913 'Il-
ludes to M. Deleuze, or to any other 1-
thorities. Some of his general obsdrvaif
apposite. Admits,'in the magnetic
the abolition of all the ordinaryBdliwi
obliteration
A
of all circumstances
the ecstasy; but considers theasscrtqdcd
between the magnetizer and the
CONTENTS.
proved. Admits theneality of certain magical cures,
which appear to have been analogous to the meg-
netic methods. Aidmitsthat the tnagnetisediper-
son is capable ofimsintsining ascertain ,oonnenion
with the externalworld, while otherwise complete-
_ly insensible. A. Denies the Qfromedies, but
without advexting to the evidence. Expresses his
doubts with Ngllll to .t»l¢,:eali|y.d;oth¢r pheno-
mena of the magnetic Somnambnlims.. Misrepre-
aents. the erxperimentspf. Petetin... Alludes, with
scepticism, tothe expel-iments,;of R0sta.n}a.nd Fil-
lsssiar. .More profound andmone impnrtialpinquiry
-recommended to M._ Andrei. Magnetic oriyital
Hllid. Pmoi oft Facts inoontrovertiblc. '~ Dilli-
Imlty of overcoming the prejudices of medical men.
Physicians dare not avow their conviction. Facts
mentioned by M. Deleuze. . . .
Cssvns,XXX.-Beoepitulstion. Theoxies. Reil,Au-
tellrietll and Hlllllbéldh .llagnetiq lirettment ope-
rates pgincipallyupon the system. Plow-
UI solaris, or _ oerebrum abdomimle. In catalepsy
,end somnamhulism, the seat of. genex-el sensibility
fnequently transferred tothe epigastlio region. This
ganglion probably designnted as the 4:-dseus by
Puaselsus and Van Helmont. sckeilisssnmed two
polesof sensibility in, the human orgsnismf-the
pneumatic mqbtheimwtss. ; Bemazk of Dr Spun-
zheim. Possibility of yvithdm.wing_ the nervous
energy from the brain, and concentrating it in the
Plvfwl solaris., :Physical analogies. _Simplicityiwd
uniformityoflnetursl causes, Othertbeories- Ani-
mal Magnetism opposed to physiological materiel-
ism. Insuniciency and absurdity of the material
hypothesis. Animal Magnetiamdistinguishes be-
tween matter and; spirit. _lsfounded upon an in-
ductive investigation of the phenomena of living
CONTENTS.
nature. The doctrine calculated to elevate hu-
manity, and to dig-nify science. Proves [the inde-
pendent existence of the 'sonl. Theory of an ethe-
real iiuid probable. Roullier. Puysegur. Opinions
of Hoffmann, Hunter, Abemethy, Coleridge, Bake-
well. ffTheiasuumption of an ethereal ilnid does not
upon thedootrine of the immatorialityand
indinliuetihilityof the soul. It may'be'eonsi¢Iered
as an intermediate connecting link between' mind
and matter. May elucidate many obscure points in
physiology. May be considered as a peculiar fluid
sui generic, or as a modification of an universal fluid.
Views of metaphysicians and poets _realized by the
discoveries of Animal Magnetism. Religion and
Philosophy reconciled. Misapprehension of the real
tendency of the doctrine. Feelings produced|by
the contemplation of the material and of the moral
world contrasted. Views of the author. Bygone
fortimes of Animal Magnetism. Controversy be-
tween the Animal Magnetists and their opponents.
Trials and ultimate triumph of Animal Magnetism.
Enlightened physicians ought to take it into their
own management. Suggestions to the Physician,
the Philosopher, and the Divine. Views of the
Roman Catholics. Words of warning. Conclu-
sion. .... .
APPENDIX.
.
l.-Report on the Magnetic Experiments made by
a Committee of the Royal Academy of Medi-
cine at Paris. . . . .
II.-On the singular phenomenon of the Transfer-
ence of the Faculties from their usual and ap-
propriate organs to the Epigastrium, and other
xii coN'rzN'rs.-
puts of the nervous system, which has been
occesionally observed to occur in cases of Ca-
talepsy and Soinnnmbulism. . .
III.-On the common cause of the phenomena of
Light, Heat, Motion, Life, Elasticity, Sono-
rousness, Magnetism, Electricity Galvanism,
Electroilfagnetism, &c. being the foundation
of a new theory of Physics.
~~
. .
IV.-Literature. ~
_
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER XXI.
Faom all the cases of the hatural somnambulism
referred to in the preceding chapters, looking to
the ,phenomena which are found to occur in all, or,
at least, in the greater number of instances, I think
we are
fullyientitled to deduce the following con-
clusions :-
I
_In general, the Somnambulist, apparently with-
out the use of any of the organs of external sensi-
bility, sees and distinguishes objects as distinctly
as when awake and in his ordinary state; he moves
about, by day or night, with equal, if not with su-
perior conlidence and security, carefully avoiding
all obstacles that may happen to stand in his way;
he performs acts, while under the influence of this
afection, of which he is totally incapable when
vox.. xr.
'
A
» s
sl ,'
'¢", s
»'. '°
»
°
.~ 'S
Oi
'
2 _-';i._§AN°1Ms1. useusrrxsm.
awake,-ahd fearlessly exposes himself to dangers
.which he would otherwise shrink from with terror.
He reads, writes, sings, plays, thinks, reflects, rea-
sons, and performs a
variety of the most delicate
operations, whether intellectual or mechanical, not
only as if he had the complete use of all his senses,
but as if the power, acuteness, and delicacy of his
faculties were
actually increased, in consequence of
being emancipated from their organic thraldom.
In almost all of these cases. we are assured that
the eyes of thesomnambulists were either exactly
closed, or
open and staring, and destitute of sensi-
bility ;¥ and from the .decisive experiments that
were made in several instances, it appears to be
clearly made out, that the faculty of sight neither
was, nor could possiblyhave been, exercised through
the medium of the usual organ of vhion. All the
other senses, too, are frequently found in a dormant
' "
Somnambulists generally walk witli their eyes open. but
these organs are, nevertheless, frequently asleep, and do not
exercise their functions. This fact was well known to Shak-
speare, as is apparent in the fearful instance of Lady Macbeth =
Doctor.-You see her eyes are open.
Gentleman.-Ay, but their sense is shut."
Msmish, Philos. ofslosp, Bd. ed. p. 164.
The same author had previously observed, that "
some ani-
11313, g¢;q.|_h¢ hare, sleep withtheir- eyes open; and Lhsve
known similar instances in the
humem subject. But the organ
is dead to the ordinary stimulus of light, and sees no more than
if completely shut."_Ibid. p. 25.
Asian. lueasnsn. 8
of suspended state, asappcarsinavariety of eases;
and this fact lwouldprobably have~besn~ rendered
still more
prominent in these and other instances,
had the proper experiments been made with a view
to ascertain its existence. Somnambulists, it also
appears, are
capable of answering distinctly any
questions that maybe putto them, and, occasionally,
of carrying on a rational conversation; indeed, their
intellectual faculties, while in that state, seem to
possess.much more than their usual clearness and
energy. It has been likewise observed, that indi-
viduals, , while under this affection, occasionally
manifest a
superior knowledge of subjects and of
ianguages, which they had not previously studied
so as to -remember, or withwhieh they had been
but imperfectly acquainted. One of the most re-
markably .characteristic circumstances attending
this singular state°of existence, and which is inva-
riably found to accompany the perfect crisis, is,
that, on awalring, the individual who had thus, as
it were
insensibly, performed all these operations,
retains no recollection of any thing that occurred
while he was under the influence of the paroxysm.
The same individual, when awake and when som-
namhulist,.appears like two entirely diiferent per-
sons!
-
'
ln U-Note-at-the 178th page of his Hinoire Critique du Mag.
adiase Animal, M. Deleuze justly observes, that this is the most
4. Amman. Macunrxsm.
It is worthy of notice, too, that the acts of the
_somnambulist are
almost always performed with a
degree of freedom, boldness, and preci ion, upe-
rior to what he manifests when awake; and that
he generally succeeds in every thing he attempts.
There is no instance, so far as I am aware, of a
characteristic feature of somnambulism. There
are, he says, somnambulists who have their eyes open, who hear
very well with their ears, who are even an
rapport with every
body; there are some in whom a
single fhculty is augmented,
and who, in other respects, have only conliised sensations; there
are some who speak with considerable ditliculty, &c. But
hitherto not a single instance has been observed in which the in-
dividual, when awake, recollected any thing that occurred in the
state of somnambulism.
Ahaer noticing the very marked distinction between this state
and that of ordinary sleep and dreaming, M. Deleuze proceeds
to point out a very extraordinary psychological phenomenon,
viz. that some somnamhulists have spoken of themselves as of
two diferent individuals in that and in the waking state. Of
this phenomenon he adduces two examples.
Mademoiselle Adelaide de F. became somnambulist without
having been magnetized. She had no idea of the personal iden-
tityof Adelaide and Petite-the latter being 'the name she re-
ceived and gave herself during the paroxysm.
Madame N. who had received a distinguished education, ha-
ving lost her fortune by a law-suit, determined, with the consent
of her husband, to go upon the stage. Whilst occupied with
this project, she fell ill and became somnambulist. As in her
somnambulism she gave reasons against the step she was about
to take, her 'magnetizer asked her to explain herself; and be re.
ceived answers which surprised him. "
Why, then, will you go
upon the stage?"
"
It is not I, but she." "
But why, then do
3/,ou not-dissuade her?" "
What should I myto hor-:he isa
f°°'~7<f~.' 2 _
.
.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 5
somnambulist awaking spontaneously in the midst
of any operation he has once undertaken; nor of
his perishing amidst the dangers which he fre;
quently encounters. There are, it is true, several
instances of somnambulists who have perished in
consequence of having been suddenly awakened by
the imprudent alarm and fatal precautions of the
witnesses of those perils to which they were
appa-
rently exposed; but the general experience of all
times seems to lead directly to the conclusion, that
the somnambulist is guided by other senses or in-g
stincts ; in short, that he is protected from injury
by other and surer means and guarantees of secu-
rity, than those by which his conduct is regulated
in his ordinary waking state. So long as he is left
undisturbed in his proceedings, he acts fearlessly
and is safe; a sudden awakening alone, by restoring
him to his natural state, causes him to perish.
The circumstances above enumerated, as consti-
tuting the distinguishing characteristics of the state
The phenomenon of seeing or feeling one's self double is not
uniiequently observed in dying persons, who, with fixll con-
sciousness, die of chronic complaints or gangrene, 9. 9. consump-
tive or
dropsical persons. They separate the suH"erlng creature,
as
something external, and speak of him as of a third person.
Brandis tells us that a well known physician, in the last stage
of a
dropsy, always talked to him as if he were the patient, and
the latter the physician. This is a curious tact, but our medi-
cal men, it would appear, deprecate all investigation into such
matters.
1
6 ANIMAL MEAGNETISML
of somnambulism, ought, I think, to have been suf-°
iicient, if duly attended to, to make the physiolo-
gists aware, that the phenomena are
quite incapable
of being satisfactorily explained upon the received
principles of their science. Here, there can be no
question about the peculiar mechanism of the eye,
of the ear, Sw. or about the mode in which impresl
sions are received and conveyed to the mind in the
ordinary state of the organism. In onler to eluci-i
date this interesting subject, we must investigate
more
profoundly the phenomena of the spiritual-
natnre of man, and endeavour to discover how his
faculties can be exercised without the ordinary use
of their appropriate organs! In proceeding to this
investigation, we ought to reflect seriously upon
the following aphorism of 'Lord Bacon, which isso
peculiarly applicable to the present state of Phy-
"
In the words of an anonymous author, who is evidently no
mystic, "it is certain that, in this state, the whole series of or-
gans, which is formed ibr the use ofthe peculiar intemal lifeuof
the spirit, appears to undergo a change, and thus also the soul does
not communicate in the usual manner with the external world.
The individuals hear, see, taste, feel, smell-the sensitive power
is still present, as usual; but the eye-ball is motionless-they
do not see with the eyes, nor do they hear with the ears; it is'
indiferent whether these are open or shut, the whole head, the
whole brain, seems deprived of its vital energy; and all 'life ap.
pears to be concentrated in the epigsstrlum; mother proof
that the organ does not generate the power, but that the power
ibrms the organ."-See Das vnaohlelerte Bildsu Saia, oder dis
Wunder aa Magmmm. Leips. lsso. P. 69, 70.
/'
ANIMAL MAGNE'rxsM. 7
siology :--Frustra magnum expectatur augmentum
in scientiis ex
superinductione et insitione novorum
super veteraa; sed instauratio facienda est ab imis
fundamentis, nisi libeat perpetuo circumvolvi in
orbem, cum exili et quasi contemnendo progressu.
Phenomena in some
respects similar to those we
have been considering, may be occasionally met
with in some of the lower animals. I shall notice
only one remarkable instance. Spallanzani ob-
served that bats can
fly with great _certainty and
confidence in rooms, however dark, without strilw
ing against the walls. He found, that,'wheu their
eyes were covered, they could Hy with. as,,muah_
precision as before; and even when their '-eyes were
put out, no alteration in this respect was observed.
From his experiments, Spallanzani was disposed to
conclude, that the bat must possess a sizth sense.
The appropriate organs of vision had been destroy-
ed, and therefore it could not be by means of sight
that they were enabled to avoid all obstacles. In
many individuals, the ears were
stopped, so that
it could not be by hearing. In others, the nostrils
were
stopped, so that it could not be by smelling;
and taste is out of the question. In these 'circum-
stances, shall we
adopt Spallanzaui's idea of a sixth
sense, or shall we presume that the internal sense or
instinctqf the animal was
informed through other
8 ANIMAL MAGN1-:'r1sM.
media than the usual organs of eazternal communica-
tion 3 1 _
As matter oi' history, and with a view to assist
us in our investigations into this very curious sub-
ject, I may here be permitted to advert to some of
those theories which have been propounded by cer-
tain ingenious men, in order to account for the ex-
traordinary phenomena of somnambu]ism.1-
'
Sir Charles Bell accounts for this phenomenon in s some-
what similar manner.
Speaking' of the wing of the bat, he ob-
serves, that "
it is not a
wing intended merely for flight, but
one which, while it raises the animal, is capable ofreceiving a new
senmiionoracnaallom, in that uquiaitedegreaco as almosttocon-
#Huis anna |81ll6¢ On the iine web of the bat'swing nerves are
distributed, which enable it to avoid objects in its Bight, during
the obscurity of night, when both eyes and ears fiail."-1§ridge-
u-ater Treatise, p. 70.
'
Of the suiiiciency of this explanation I shall say nothing ;
but it appears to me to stand rather in contradiction to certain
other propositions laid down by Sir Charles, and formerly no-
ticed in this work, viz. that the nerves are capable of exciting
in the mind no other idea than that to which they are appro-
priate; that the organs of the senses are appropriated to parti-
cular `classes of sensations, while the nerves intermediate be-
tween'the brain and the organs are respectively capable of re-
ceiving no other sensations but such as are adapted to their
particular organs; and that, when an individual is deprived of
the organs of sight, no power of attention, or continued etibrt
of the will, or exercise qflhe other uma, can make him_enjoy the
class of sensations which is lost.
1- The very intelligent author of a Memoir on the Vital Fluid
in the Bibliothequc du Magnelilfne Animal (tom. ii. p. 26.), gives
ANIMAL MAGNETISU. 9
I observed in a former chapter, that it is through
the medium of the nerves that the vital principle
the following ingenious explanation of the meaus by which per.
sons are enabled to see and hear during sleep.
"
It has been observed," says he,
"
that, during sleep, the
senses of sight and hearing, so alert in the waking state, are the
most profoundly dormant; while, on the contrary, the organ of
the skin (the cuticular organ), which, as we know, is the prin-
cipal seat of the physical sensibility, is considerably more open
to extemal impressions and influences, when asleep, than when
awake. ......... But what has not been suspected is, that this or-
gan is the door by which we may communicate directly with
the internal sense of man in the state of sleep, excite his intel-
lectual lhculties, and even direct his moral sense to the object
we propose. Undoubtedly, this phenomenon appears a
prodigy,
but only to those who have not observed it, or who have rea-
soned ill on the subject. I can prove it. Is it not very com-
mon to make sleeping persons speak-to make them sometimes
keep up pretty long conversations, and even tell their secl'ets P
Certainly you then speak to them, and they answer; but in
order that they may be able to answer you, it is necessary, I
think, that they should hear you. Do they hear you by the ear»
while, at that moment; the ear is asleep? If they heard by
the ear, is it not clear that they could not be asleep? They
cannot, then, hear you by the ear; and it is evident that they
hear you by the only sense which is awake, that is, by the organ
of the skin. In a
state of sleep, man is not only capable of pei-_
ceiving sounds hy the organ of the akin: he is also capable of
perceiving, in the same way, the rays of light; that is to say,
he can see and distinguish objects through the medium of this
same organ."
_ For prooiis of the accuracy of this theory, the author refers
us to the history of a somnambulist in the Annales do Montpel-
lier, and to the works of M. de Puyseg.r.°
The preceding theory seems to be corroborated by the follow-
ing observations of Professor Kluge. He remarks, that the
phenomena of the corporal atmosphere in man are most con-
10 p
nnmsl, Mssulmsu.
appears to be acted upon--that they are the sources
of the animal aifectability--that many eminent
physicians and physiologists had found themselves
compelled to assume the existence of a nervous
fluid, as the vehicle of the influence in question-
aud that the existence of this iiuid, if not actually
demonstrated, had, at least, been rendered exceed-
ingly probable by the researches of several cele-
brated experimental philosophers.
Now, the existence of this nervous or 'Uiflll fluid
lies at the bottom of almost all the theories of Ani-
mal.Magnetism. Of Mesmer I have already spoken.
The following are the fundamental opinions upon
this subject of M. Tardy de Montravel, an early,
practical, and most intelligent disciple of Magne-
tism.
'
There exists a fluid diffused throughout all na-
ture, which is _the principle of life and motion.
spicuously manifested during sleep, when the activity of the
cerebral system is diminished, and that of the ganglionic sys-
tem, on the contrary, is increased. "
In continuation of this
fact," says he,
"
I need not refer to the cases of sleep-walkers
and magnetic somnambulists, but merely mention an experiment
noticed by Wienholt, and several times repeated, and always
with the same success, by mysel£ This experiment consists in
approaching s
sleeping person, and slowly moving the linger, s
metal rod, or any other substance, repeatedly above the bare
surface of the skin, at the distance of half an inch or an inch,
without producing a current of air, when the sleeper will be-
come restles, generally rub the affected part, and, if the expe-
riment be longer continued, probably awake."--Knues, p. 267,
ANIMAL Mscmrrism. _
ll
This fluid, in traversing bodies, modifies them, and
is modified by them in its turn. When it circu-
lates from one
body to another with the same mo-
tion, these two bodies are in harmony with each
other. It is by means of this liuid that our nerves
receive sensations. Besides the external organs of
the senses, man-
possesses an internal ense,
e
of
which the entire nervoussystem is the organ, and
the principal -seat, is in the plexus solaris. This
sixth sense is the principle of what wecall instinct
in animals.-- If, -by -any cause whatever, the exter-
nal senses are deadened, and the intemal organ of
sensibility acquires' more
irritability, the latter
alone performs the 'functions of all the others: it
carries to the soul the most delicate impressions,and
these impressions alfect us in a
lively manner, be-
cause our attention is no longer distracted by other
objects. This is what takes place in somnambu-
lism. With regard to previsions,* they are en-
tirely the result of the combinations of the intel-
lect, which reasons according to the impressions it
experiences, as a watchmaker foresees the instant
when a pendulum will stop-as an astronomer
foresees the various motions which will take place
in the heavens. In animals, instinct is purely me#
chanical: in man it is augmented by all the moral
'
See the following Chapters.
12 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
faculties; and it is for this reason that it sometimes
becomes the expression of conscience.
The knowledge which the somnambulist pos-
ssssss of distant sbjssts, is owing to this asia,
which conveys to him the impression of them, tra-
versing all bodies, as
light traverses glass!
A theory similar to the preceding is adopted by
M. Deleuze in his Histoire critique du Magnetisme
Animal. Indeed, it appears, .in one form or an-
other, in the works of almost all writers upon the
subject. The fluid in question is supposed to be
analogous to electricity and galvanism. Both are
thought to depend upon the same principle, and
to have one common origin; and a very ingenious
recent author has ascribed all the important phe-
nomena of nature to the various combinations of
thisuniversal fluid with matter.-f
I am
perfectly aware, that, in the present state
of gross ignorance upon the subject, it would be
equally foolish and futile to enlarge upon any such
theory as that now briefly touched upon, in this
country. The facts themselves which have given
birth to this theory, mu t first be more
generally
'
See Euai sur la Theorie du Somnambulisme Magrwtique, and
the other writings of M. Tardy de Montravel.
1' See Euai da Pagchologie Physiologiquc, par M. Chardel. Pa-
ris, 1881. Also Appendix, No. III.
'~~
'f
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 13
studied, appreciated, and admitted, as
upon the
Continent, before we can
expect that any great at-
tention will be paid to the principes upon which
they are capable of being explained.
(14),
CHAPTER XXII.
THE phenomena manifested in the magnetic
somnambulism are, in almost all respects, analo-
gous to those which occur in the natural or
spon-
taneous. In the former, however, when the patient
is very susceptible, or the operator possesses great
magnetic power, the crisis can
generally be ren-
dered more
perfect by the artificial means
employ-
ed; and much better opportunities are thus aiford-
ed for making experiments, and observing the re-
sults.
Indeed, it is one of the many benefits conferred
upon physiological science by the magnetic treat-
ment, that it has not only completely demonstrated
the possibility of producing this remarkable state
of the human organism artificially, but likewise
afforded us the means of more carefully and more
migutely investigating its various and most inte-
resting phenomena. Many of the professors of
Animal Magnetism, it is true, seem to be of opi-
nion, that the magnetic treatment is not altogether
the primary and emcient, but only the secondary
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
and ocea ional, cause of somnamhulism; that is to
my, that it merely tends _to develope that affection
in such constitutions as are otherwise predisposed
to it. It is certain, however, that it has been so
produced in a
great variety of instances, and thus
given rise to many interesting speculations, both
with regard to the agency of the magnetic _prin-
ciple upon the human constitution in general, and
to the nature and extraordinary phenomena of that
peculiar state of the organism; speculations which,
if .divested of all mysticism, and conducted in the
sober spirit of philosophical investigation, cannot
ultimately fail to improve and extend our,
physio~
logical and psychological knowledge.
The cases of the magnetic somnambulism have
become exceedingly numerous, since the more
ge-
neral introduction of that mode of treatment upon
the Continent; so numerous, indeed, that it is quite
unnecesary,-and. would .=be intolerahly tedious, to
gi!eany.full.and..particular detail of them. The
cl1araoter.:o£;the_phenomena, too, is so. similar in
all of them, that, after enumerating a few of the
most remarkable, littleadditional instruction could
be derived,,so far, at least, as. _the nature of the, af-
faction is concemed, from the very few specialties
-whichr may -'be~fonnd_ to occur in;-individual in-
stances. I shall therefore merely advert to some
.of=therln0re,remarkal>le.,,featl1re8i0f this very extra-
l6 Amman MAGNETISM.
ordinary organic state, referring those who may
feel desirous of obtaining more ample information
upon_ the subject to the various publications enu-
merated in this work.
The
phenomena I am_ now about to bring under
the particular notice of the reader, may be arranged
into four classes :
l. The faculty possessed by almost all Som-
nambulists of seeing through intervening opaque
bodies;
'
2. The faculty manifested by some somnambu-
listic patients of seeing the interior of their own
bodies _and that of other persons, of pointing out
the nature and seat of diseased structure, and of
prescribing appropriate remedies. This has been
called the faculty of Intuition.
3. The faculty of seeing objects at a distance;
and,
4. The faculty of foreseeing future events; which
last has been denominated the faculty of
_
All of these phenomena, it will be observed, are
comprehended under the fifth and sixth degrees
into which, as Professor Kluge remarks, patients
have been found to pass during the magnetic treat-
ment*
'
'
With regard to these phenomena, the Committee
'
See page 281, &.c. The evidence adduced in the Appendix to
the hrmer edition of this publication, relative to the transfer-
ANIMAL MAGNETISH. 17
of the Royal Academy of Medicine at Paris ob-
serve, in their late Report :
"
We have seen two
somnambulists who distinguished, with their eyes
closed, the objects which were
placed before them;
they mentioned the colour and the value of cards,
without touching them; they read words traced
with the hand, as also some lines of books opened
at random. This phenomenon took place even
when the eyellids were kept exactly closed with
the fingers. A
"
In two somnambulists we recognized the fa-
culty of foreseeing the acts of the organism more
or less remote, more or less complicated. One of
them announced repeatedly, several months pre#
viously, the day, the hour, and the minute of the
access and of the return of epileptic fits. The other
announced the period of his cure. Their previsions
were realized with remarkable exactness. They
appeared to us to apply only to acts or
injuries of
their organism.
ence of sensation in certain cases of Catalepsy and Somnambu-
lism, belongs to this branch of the subject; and I have there-
fore caused the paper to be reprinted at the end of this work.
(See Appendix, No. II.) To that evidence I have never heard
any reasonable objection stated; on the contrary, several per-
sons, previously sceptics, have since expressed to me their con-
viction ofthe truth of the fact-a fact which is, moreover, con-
firmed hy almost every case of the natural as well as of the
magnetic somnamhulism. ~
VOL. ll. B
18 .xuman MAGNETISM.
"
We found only a
single somnambulist who
pointed out the symptoms of the diseases of three
persons with whom he was placed in magnetic
connexion. We had, however, made experiments
upon a considerable number."*
At one time, I proposed to bring these diierent
phenomena separately under the notice of my
readers; but I soon found that this method would
necessarily be attended with a
great deal oflabour
and inconvenience, and with no little confusion.
There is scarcely a single patient, in the higher
magnetic state, who does not manifest several, if
not all, of these phenomena, at 'different stages of
the treatment. By taking them up singly, there-
fore, I should have exposed myself to much trouble
in repeatedly going back to each' individual -case;
besides diminishing the interest which might other-
wise be felt by the reader in attending to an entire
and unbroken narrative. For these reasons, I shall
bring each case which I propose to adduce, with
all its remarkable phenomena, fully under the lio-
tice of -the reader, seriatim ; beginning with the
'
With praiseworthy candour and caution, these French
Academlclans notice only such phenomena as fell under their
own observation, while engaged in the investigation entrusted
to them. I trust, however, that I shall be able to demonstrate
the reality of the other iiicts alluded to, by the testimony of
equally competent and credible witnesses.
_
ANIMAL Mseuarrsm. I9
more simple, and advancing to the more compli-
cated.
But before I proceed to the details of these very
remarkable cases, I am anxious, in consequence of
the little attention which has been recently paid to
the subject, to shew that I am
supported by com-
mon
opinion, as well as by many competent gene-
ral authorities and authenticated facts, indepen-
dently of magnetism, in my views of the question
under discussion. For this purpose, I might refer
at some-
length to the writings of Plato, Hippo~
crates, Aretaeus, Galen, &c. who held as true, or,
at least, as
probable, many of those phenomena
which have been experimentally demonstrated by
the. modern magnetizers-thns
verifying the adage,
that "
there is nothing new but what has been for-
gotten." But _my authorities are abundant and
unambiguous; and I would avoid being thought
pedantic and tedious.
Ammianus Marcellinus, in defending the sybils
and others, thus answers the objections made to
their predictions:
"
What signifies these murmur
of ignorant people? If there were any such thing,
say they, as a
knowledge of the future, why was
this person ignorant that he should be overcome in
war? Why did not that other person foresee that
such and such an accident would happen to him?
Excellent reasoning ! As if, because a certain
26 ANIMAL MAGN1-:'risM.
grammarian had committed a solecism in language
-a certain musician had produced a discord-a
certain physician had been ignorant- of a
particular
remedy; as if from these circumstances we were
entitled to conclude that there are no such things
as
grammar, music, or medicine."*
-
Athenagoras-who was first a Platonic philoso-
pher, and afterwards embraced Christianity-in his
apology for the Christians, considers the soul as
capable of itself, and by its own
powers, Qfpredict-
ing future events, and qf curing diseases, and that
these powers were
improperly ascribed to demons.
His words are :1- .Et cum suapte vi ac ratione, anima,
utpote immortalis, plerumque moveatur et agat in ho-
rnine, ita utjiaturaprwdicat, et prrzsentium sta~
tum dirigat, aut amendet (the Greek word is agsmrs
'
Ammian. Marcell. p. 180, No. 5. (Lib. xxi.)
1- Athenagoras, Gesnero Interpfete.
Kluge observes, that this phenomenon manifested by som-
namhulists gave great offence to many physicians, who thought
it an impertinent interference with their learning and dignity,
that the patient should pretend to know more than the Doctor.
The Professor, however, reminds these gentlemen, that the ob-
jection is founded upon a total mistake of their peculiar duties.
The business of the physician never was any thing more than
curative (eurare) ; the healing power (madori) resided in Nature
herseli, whose servants and subordinates they ought always to
be. In short, it is the sole duty of the physician to endeavour
to place the diseased organism in such a state as to allow Na-
ture to restore it to health.
L
ANIMAL mmm-:'r1sM. 21
-cures), Ingjue sapientie laudem dcemones sibi 'lu-
crantur.
St Justin, who lived nearly about the same time
with Athenagoras, remarks, that the Sybils, in ut-
tering their prediction , however true, did not
themselves understand what theysaid, and that,
as soon as the instinct which animated them was
extinguished, they lost all recollection qf what they
had predicted :-Sed in ipso qjtatus wmpore sortes
illa .mas eaplebat, et evamzscente instinctu ipso, simul
quoque dictorum memoria evanuitf This is 'pre-
ci ely what takes place in somnarnbulism.
The Druid priests were also physicians. Cicero
says of them :-There are Druids in Gaul, among
whom I knew Divitiacus of Autun, who pretended
to have a
knowledge of natural things, which the
Greeks call Physiology, and who said that, partly
by the science of angury, and partly by conjecture,
they foresaw future events.1' Pliuy describes the
Druids as
"
that kind of prophets and physicians"
-hoc genus vatum medicarumque.1;
Montanus the heretic prophesied. He appears
to have been in a state of habitual crisis. He had
two women along with him, Prisca and Maximilla,
who fell into ecstasies, and predicted future events ;
'
Justin, Admonitmium ad G1-zona.
1» Do mmm, L. 1. § 41, No. 89.
4; mu. Nu. L ao, ¢. 1.
22 ANIMAL Mseuarlsu.
-
but, like all somnambulists, recolkcted nothing ffwhat
they had said when in their ordinary stated* Ter-
tullian speaks of one of these' prophetesses, who,
in her crises, amongst other things, prophesied, and
prescribed remediesfor diseases.
Jamblichus, in his work De Myskzriis, speaks of
the phenomena of the ecstatic crisis, which he ap-
pears to have perfectly well known. Those who
are thus afected, he observes, neither make 'use of
their senses, nor are so awake as those whohave
waking senses. The soul, he says, has a twofold
life, the one along with the body, the other sepa-
rable from every thing corporeal. When awake,
we
ohiedy make use of the life which is common
to the body; but in sleeping, the soul may be en-
tirely released from its chains, and make use of
the incorporeal life. In this state, he recognizes,
amongst others, the phenomenon of prevision, or
foreknowledge.-f
'
_
Johnston, in his Thaumatographia naturalis, when
treating of hysterical diseases, observes, that those
who are affected with them experience convulsions,
palpitations, epileptic fits; they become deprived
of
`
sight, their voice utters an
extraordinary sound;
'
St Hieron. Proifm. ad haiam.
1- See Jamblichus, De Myneriia, in cap. De Somniis.-See al-
so Rob. Fludd, Hint. lliioroeonn. Tract. i. sect. 2, part. i. l. 3.
c. 1.
_
ANIMAL Masuzrlsu. 28
sometimes they avoid the light, and eel: the ob-
scurity of the tombs; at other times, they speak
unknown languages, and predictfuture events.
*
Many authors have noticed this last mentioned
phenomenon of speaking a
language unknown, to
the individual in his ordinary state; and it will very
frequeutlybe found coupled with the prophetic facul-
ty, as
arising out of the same or similar conditions.
Among these authors, passing over the ancients, I
may mention Pomponatius, Lemnius, Gainerius,
Fioinus, Forestus, &c. Pomponatius, (Lib. de In-
cant. c.
4».)»refers to the story of theawife of Fran-
cis Magresi, who, in an access of melancholy, spoke
in various languages, and, when cured by medical
treatment, lost all knowledge of these wnguest
The author of the Chiliads (in Declam. pro Laude?
bus Medic.) mentions the case of an Italian, who,
in a Ht of mental aberration, (novo em vemtibuafu-
' "
Solet interdum in virginibus retentum semen putreseere
in utero, deletexiam acquirere vim, et mirlnca excitare sympto-
msta. Vapor enim malignus suscitstus, intestine, ventriculum,
hepar ad diaphragma comprimit, cordis palpitatio, cardialgin,
vertigo et pallor oboritur. Alias subito mulier prosternitur,
respiratione, loquela, visu prlvatur. Epilepsia, convulsione et
deliriis interdum infestatur. Exaudiuntur interdum ex imis
visceribus mine voces. His positis, diversa et mirabilia in di.
versis etiam linguis proferri: Noctumos discunus, et circa
mortuorum sepulchra, latebras quaeri."-J. Jomtsros, Thau-
mat. nat. Amst. 1633.
"
Aliquando solent tales homines linguis peregrinis loqui, et
fixture predicere-"
'
24, ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
roris genere correptus), spoke good German, a lan-
guage previously unknown to him when in health,
and which he again forgot wlen cured _of his dis-
ease. Gainerius relates several instances of per-
sons, male and female, who spoke languages which
they had not previously kuown.*
Lemnius (Lib. ii. De Occult. Nature Mirac. c. 2.)
observes, that, in acute fevers, persons have been
known to discourse, copiously and fluently, in an
elegant and elaborate dialect, which they werein-
capable of using when in health; and he ascribes
this phenomenon, not, as was usual in his time, to
demoniacal possession, but to the influence of the
disease. The same
thing is frequently found to
occur in the ecstatic somnambulism.
Morhof (in his Polyhist. Litter. lib. iv. c. 4. § 2.),
quotes from Fulgosus the case of au Italian labour-
ing under the plague, and thought to be at -the
point of death, who, suddenly rallying, sent for
his master, and told him that he had really been
in heaven, and had learned who and how many
persons belonging to the house would die of the
plague; and having named them, he aiiirmed that
his master would survive. And in order that his
words might obtain credit, he shewed that he un-
derstood all languages, spoke Greek with his mas-
ter, and attempted other dialects with those who
'
E: Gmtilein Quaatdelnoanlationc.
Amman. nneru-:'rxsM. 25
knew them, although he had previouslyonlylearned
Italian; and having lived two days in this state, he
died, and was followed by those he had named, his
master surviving.
The same author also quotes from La Motte le
Vayer the case of a Frenchman, Le Fevre, who, in
his sleep, wh en
interrogated in any language, could
answer in the same, although, besides French, he
had only an
imperfect knowledge of Italian and
Spanish. He predicted that a certain person should
die a. violent death, and the individual subsequent-
ly perished in a duel. When awake. he seemed to
be asleep, for he had always something obtuse and
stupid about him ; while, when asleep, he exhibited
much more alacrity and vigilance. In his waking
state, he recollected nothing of what had occurred
during his sleep, except that, from intense headach,
he judged that he had been much harassed with
questions and answers. This case, which seelns
to have extremely puzzled the observers, was evi-
dently one of the natural or
pontaneou somnam-
bulism; and the symptoms appear to have been
preci ely analogous to those which have been found
to occur in other instances of the same afection.
Manyother curiou instancesofthese phenomena,
accompanied with learned and ingenious attempts
to explain them, may be found in Valesius, Huarte,
VOL. Il.
'
C
26 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Src. The facts themselves were pretty
notorious, but the theoretical explanations, from
the want of any adequate inductive investigation,
were almost always unsatisfactory.
Charron, in his Tiuitédcla Sagesse (L. i. ch. 15,
No. ll), remarks, that melancholy, maniacal, fre-
netic persons, and those aifected with certain dis-
eases, whieh Hippocrates callssacred (morbussacer),
speak Latin wilhont having learnt it, compose
verses, converse /sensibly and wisely, discover hid-
dem mags, and preaietjmve wwe (which fooihh
and ignorant persons ascribe to the devil, or 'to a
familiar spirit), huhhugh they were previously
idiolesand '1-ustics, and againhecotne so after their
cui-e.
I
1
v
Valesius (De Sacrh Plnflokqzh.cap. 30), observes,
that whatever "renders the mind Tree from external
cares, naturally disposes it for divine contempla-
tion, and 'for prophecyi and that this disposition
prhhhhiy 'becomes mm' emmiohs in cermih dis-
eases, or irreonsequence of sa great prostration of
bodily stsength, "as in 'dying persons. For 'it is
chain; "says he, thai, :ih proportion-as the-strength
of 'the shady and the weight-df the 'flesh hare aimi-
dished, wha pawafh of the mhmhewmh more em.
getie'and"tnore peffeeh.
1
`-
fllaupertifis notonly believed in 'the' possiliility
of a
faculty of provision, but he has even
attempted
nmsumnlnl. 27
toexplaiait auomethingquitenamml. .In a
pas-
sgn -afloine of his _wonkn,. lfhene -occur the following
observations :-4-1" It would -appear than the :percep-
tions 'df the pact, due prcsantqfaid ihciiilsuneg" only
dilfer in 'thc niques of the null: Op-
pmassd consequence* if pemaptians, it
pedvceives the pact ;~ into ihcwsit the
pnesent.; astute more ckalted wronlelyfparhaps, ren-
ilbr'~:it~caphle~cf 'diicovcning -die fiance; -and this,
would net bmw wonderful, as to find it
'things chaclo dactexish IQYQI'
exidad, uid nevcr'lri1l=cx§|t. -VWe>ha.ve,~ueal\of all
buracxperidioe Ao preieiltlusfrom giving fdadit to
our llifauhs. flf W6"$hKi|lB philosophically the
systems to- which we mfnht 'have nbconhepinéarder
.how wcqaerceivc that
we have §ust said will. mr
ngvear fso strmge,
asif may hawiedanewatirst. fif there lbe no real
relation .between thenbjects auilfthat spiritual es~
Hence which-perceives them; -if our
perceptions have
their .pfopcr dmse in 1he=sou.l, mndhave no relation
to' the objects but by ceucomitance, or
bym pre-
cstiblished hafzmony; or ii? the objects are
only the
occasional causes of that manifestation which God
wished the G0lfl to have iof .a substance "whdie all
ihe archetypesof it~arefolmd:sheperception folmd :she perception
of the andflmt of the future; will be no more
diicult to comprehend than thuticf 'the present."
28 ANIMAL uacuirrxsn.
Sir Henry Halford, in an interesting essayon the
Kun;-brain fever-of Aretaeus, has the following
remarkable passage in relation to this subject :
"
The author, Aretaeus, states that the first ef-
fect of the subsidence of the violent excitement is,
thatthepqtienfs mindbecomes clear, thatallhis senf
sationsarenowexquisitelylceen; thatheis thefrst
person¢odiscoverthatheisabouttodie,andanf
nouncesthistohisattendants; laeseemsto hold
conversewiththe spiritsqfthosewho have departed
before him, as Qfthey stoodin hiepresence; andthat
his soul acquires a prophetic power. The author,
with all the appearance of being him elf convinced
that this power has really been acquired by the pa-
tient in the last hours of his life, remarks that the
bye-standers fancy him to be rambling and talking
nonsense, but that they are afterwards astounded
at the coming to passof the events which had been
predicted. Indeed, he attempts to account for it
by supposing that thesoul, whilst 'shuihing of
this mortal coil,' whilst disengaging itself from the
incumbrances of the body, becomes purer, more
essential, entirely spiritual, as if it had already
commenced its new existence. -
`
"
To me, I own," continues Sir Henry,
"
it dee
not seem necessary to ascribe to persons under such
circum tances a
supernatural power. We have all
observed the mind clear up in an extraordinary
ANIHAL MAGNETISM. 29
manner in the last hours of life, when terminated
even in the ordinary course of nature, but certainly
still more
remarkably when it has been cut short
by disease, which had affected, for a time, the in-
tellectual faculties. We have seen it become ca-
pable of exercising a subtle judgment, when the
passions which had been accustomed to bias and
embarrass its decisions whilst they existed, were
extingni hed at the approach of death; when the
inferences which wisdom had drawn from the for-
mer behaviour of men were now made available to
a correct estimate of their future conduct, in the
sense of Milton's lines:
'
When old experience does attain
'
To something like prophetic strain!
"'
An illustration of this argument may be read
in the beautifull valedictory address of the elder
Cyrus to his two sons and his friends assembled
round his death-bed to receive his last instructions.
The speech, full of good sense, of truth, and of
practical wisdom, is not less Worthy of the favour-
ite disciple of Socrates, who records it, than of the
great king, who having been predicted by name,
some centuries before he existed, as the instrument
hereafter to accomplish the will of Providence, im-
parted these results of his experience at the close
of his illustrious life.
'
"
Nevertheless, that a
prophetic power did at-
30 Anmsl. useuxtnsm.
$2124124 Bills laethour generally was a notionen-
tertailwfl of oldyand has been transmitted down to
Ui fl°0H~the Qlltliest records of mankind. We ruul
in the Pent.ateue\,,tllet, "
when Jacob had made
an end of commanding his sous? (or, in other
Wordiv not lens Etithfnl tn the Voriginal, nor fozthg
version of the- Septnagimt.,
'
when Jacob had Bail;
ed his solemn to his soni),
he drew up his feet into the bed, and yielded up
the ghost." A
Now, with these solemn injunctions
were mixed up much prophetic matter, many pre-
dietions'of their future fate and fortunes: as, for
instance,-' the sceptre shall not depart from Ju-
dah, nor a
lawgiver from between his feet, until
Shiloh come, and to him shall the gathering of the
P°°Pl° be-' _
_
_">A,nd although the account here given by Mo-
ses is, as I believe it to be, in the language of in-
spiratiolb and must not therefore be humiliated by
being compared even with this sublime account of
an important disease, given by a physician for the
information of his profession, and the good of
mankind; yet we must allow it to be remarkable,
that the Almighty shpnld be pleased to choose the
dying hour of the Patriarch in which to
inspirehim
with a foreknowledge of hisgraoieus purpose to
send the Messiah into the world for the redemption
of minlrind; noi' will it seem extravagant to sup~
ANIMAL uacuarlsnr. 31
posetthat this most interesting prediction, at the
clean of»Jaeob's life, mightbe the very foundation
on wllielthe popular notion (that dying persons
were gifted with thepower of prophecy-a notion
which prevailed through so many successive ages
afterwards) was built. The _pride of human na-
ture`eesi]y disposes it to appropriate to itself extra-
ordinary pewer; and that which was peculiarly
vouchsafed to the. sanctity of the Patriarch and
Prophets of God may have been assumed to be the
privilege of mankind universally in tha. »ll0\l' of
death;
"That the. fame of the Patriarnhis prophecy,
and those of Isaiah at a much later period, was
not confined to the limits of the country in which
they wen-first promulgated, we are very sure; tlmt
they were extended, 'in 'process of time, by the ve-
nerated authority of the Sihylline leaves (which
we have good reason to believe were a collection
of prophecies), over the whole extent of the Roman
empire, is probable, and that their fulfilment was
expected the more intenselyas the time of their
accomplishment drew near, we
may assume, as a
fair inference, from the Pollio of Virgil, who makes
u e of the very same
beautiful imagery in depict-
ing the advantages to follow the expected birth of
his august personage, as
Isaiah had
employed to
describe the happy consequences of the advent of
32 ANIMAL Mseuarxsu.
the Messenger of mercy to mankind What won-
der, then, if the philosophers, both Grecian and Ro-
man, if the poets (who may be considered as his-
torians of popular notions) concurred in transmit-
ting down this accredited opinion ? Cicero, a most
accomplished philosopher as well as orator, him-
self an
augur too, and therefore probably well ac-
quainted with the contents of the Sibylline leaves,
(for they were committed to the safe custody of
the College of Augurs), in his first book on Divi-
nation, gives a
story of the prediction of the death'
of Alexander the Great, by an Indian about to die
on they funeral-pile. His words are:
'
There are
certainly some traces of presentiment and divina-
tion even
among barbarous nations; as Calanus,
the Indian, proceeding to death, when he ascended
the buming pile, exclaimed: O excellent departure
from life! when, as
happened to Hercules, the soul
shall ascend into light from the ashes of the mor-
tal body; And when Alexander asked him whe-
ther he wished to say any thing more, he answer-
ed: It is well-I shall see you soon. In fact, in the
course of a few days afterwards, Alexander died at
Babylon."
'
A somewhat analogous and very singular story is told by
thelate Mr M. G. Lewis, inhiuaunmzqfa Wnumua Pro-
prietor. The story relates to Plato-not the celebrated philoso-
pher of that name, but-the runaway negro, and captain of a
troop of bandittiin Jamaica_a man of daring courage, and a
ANIMAL Msaunrrsm. 38
"As to the poets, Homer transmits this popular
notion-Sophocles adopts it-Virgil copies Homer
-and our own
Shakspeare records it in various
passages."
professor of Obi, or the Indian magic. This man was, at length,
apprehended and executed. "
He died," says Mr Lewis,
"
most
heroically ; kept up the terror of his imposture to the last mo-
ment; told the magistrates who condemned him, that his death
would be revenged by a storm which would lay waste the whole
island that year ; and when his negrojailor was binding him to
the stake at which he was destined to suffer, he assured him that
he should not live long to triumph in his death, for that he had
taken good care to Obeah hlm'before his quitting the prison. It
certainly did happen," continues Mr Lewis,
"
strangely enough,
that before the year was over, the most violent storm took place
ever known in Jamaica; and as to the jailor, his imagination,"
as Mr Lewis has it, "
was so forcibly struck by the threats of
the dying man, that, although every care was taken of him, the
power of medicine exhausted, and even a voyage to America
undertaken, in hopes that a change of scene might change the
course of his ideas, still, from the moment of Plato's death, he
gradually pined and withered away, and finally expired before
the completion of the twelvemonth."
Urban Grandier predicted the death of one of his persecutors,
Father Lsctantius, within a month of his own, and the predic-
tion was verified. A similar story is told of Molay, grand master
of the order of Templars, in respect to King Philip of France
and Pope Clement V.
'
(34)
CHAPTER
A'r the conclusion of the preceding chapter, I
took the liberty of making a
pretty long quotation
from an elegant treatise by Sir Henry Halford, in
order to make the reader Fully aware of the uni-
versality of the belief; prevalent from the most re-
mote times, in the exercise of prophetic powers
under certain organic conditions; a belief which,
however occasionally associated with prejudice,
superstition, and error, assuredly was not entirely
destitute of a natural foundation, Sir Henry's own
opinion on the subject is not very clearly or deci-
dedly expressed; but, perhaps, like many other
learned and intelligent individuals, his attention
had not been attracted to the evidence by which
the belief in question is supported. I shall now
proceed to adduce my other authorities for the
fact.
The following passages, which are well worthy
of attention, are extracted from a learned treatise
written by the celebrated Dr Frederick Hoffmann,
.muses Mtczuznsn. 35
physician to the king of Prussia-entitled, De Op-
tima Pbélosqilnandi rahlme.
"
In' what- manner the soul confined by the
chains ofthe body may be disturbed in its actions,
has not hitherto been satisfactorily ascertained, but
is still a moot point in philosophy. In my opinion,
it appears very probable, that the intellect, origi-
nally pnre, luminous, and inorganic, infused by the
Almighty into 'a living at its first creation,
has a connexiou and commerce with a very subtile
ethereal jfuid, which is separated fiom the blood
and lymph in the minute fabric of the brain, and
that the purer this fluid is, the functions of the
mind are
performed with so much the more alacria
ty; whilst, on the contrary, the more
impure it is,
and the more it is imbued with sulphurous, va-
pomus, and terrestrial particles, men are found to
be more dull 'and stupid."
"
From what has been said, wo, we may End the
'
'
Qucmodo eutem anime corporls vincuhs inlumens in ac-
tlonibus suis turberl pceslt, nondum mtis evictum, sed adhuc
sub phllosophis lls est. Meam quad attinet sentsntiam, es
mhi videtur veto slmilis, quod lntellectus insitus, puma, lumi.
nosus, criginaliter inorganicus, aheoin prima creatione ccrpcri
vivo infums, cum subtilissimo setliemc iiuido, qucd in cerebrl
fabrlca tenuimima a ssnguine et lymplm aeperatur, hsbeat vin-
culum et commercium, quod Buidum, que pm-tus est, eoslacrius
hmctiones sunt mimi, quo vero impurius, et quo magic multi:
psrtlculis sulphureis, vspcrosis, et terrestrlbus imbutum est, so
hebetiores et obtusi lwmines inveniuntur.
86 ANIMAL Mscnnrlsm.
reason
why those. individuals who are weak in
body, who take little food and drink, and rather
indulge in fasting, have a much readier and purer
power of intellect; which we have not unfrequent-
ly observed, especially in pious persons, upon the
near
approach of death. For they, returning to
themselves during a
period of quiet, speak of the
wonderful joys they experience, and glory in the
society of God and the angels; which joy and ala-
crity of the dying, Cicero (De Consolat.) ascribes
to the gods, when he says that we ought not to de-
spair of the benignity of the gods, since they soothe
and lighten the minds of those departing from life.
Undoubted signs of this are
very frequently ob-
served in the dying, when, as if roused from sleep,
at the time they are in extremities, they appear so
sprightly and joyful, that we might imagine they
departed this life with the greatest pleasure."*
'
Ex his quoque adductis repetenda erit ratio, quod iis ho-
minibus, quorum corpora indnna, parum cibis et potu onerantur,
msgisque jejuniis indulgent, longe promptior et purior intelli-
gendi vis insit; quod etiam in morti proximis, prsesertim piis,
non raro ohservamus. Hi enim ad tempus quieti ad se redeun-
tes, mira enarrsnt gaudia, et de Dei mgelorumque consortio glo-
risntur; quam morientium lsetitiam et alacrltstem Cicero (De
Cmrolat.) diissscribit: cum sit x non despenndum de deorum be-
nignitate, quin eo tempore e vita propermtem discedere foveant
stque sllevent. Cujus rei in morientihus signs smpissime mi.
nime dubis cemuntur, cum velut e somno exciti, quo tempore
extmemum spiritum editurl sunt, its gsudentes et alacres adspi-
dunt, ut libentissime e vita judiess proiicisci.
mmm. Msennrnsn. 37
"
Daily experience teaches us that, during sleep,
the body is at- rest, and the mind is not distracted
by external objects: hence, therefore, the latter
can more
readily and more successfully execute its
operation . In dreaming, it not 'uufrequently hap-
pens that manythings become to us clear and ez-
posed which were prevabusly concealed, things long
forgotten occur to the memory, and powers which na»
tureq/ten seemedtohavedeniedto us, are deuekped
during sleep, when the mind is re-inatated in its rights.
Thus, it has frequently happened to myself, who
possess no natural genius for poetry, to have com-
posed and recited very elegant Latin verses, in
proper order and series, of which I could still re-
member some when awake. And who is so igno-
rant ofsacred literature as not to know, that God has
revealed the most important matters in dreams,for no
otherreasonthanthatthemind,duringsleep,iamone
attentive, and more capable of apprehending those
things which are revealed.
"
Scnouou. ~
"
The most ancient Father of physicians, Hip-
pocrates, already in his time diligently noted this
in his book De Insomniis, where he says, near the
commencement: When the body is awake, the
thinking faculty of the mind is not in complete
possession of its powers, but distributes some
part
of them to the diiferent parts of the body, or
the
§8 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
senses-of hearing, sight, touch, muscular action
-and to all the corporeal faculties. .
But when the
bodgisatrest, tlwsoul-is in motion, andpervading
household, and,qf
c`taelj§_peg1bnnsaIltl|e actionsqfthe body. .Fortlae
hody, when asbp, peroeiws natking ; whileothe soul,
stall awake, knows, sees, hears, moves about, touches,
|»am_)%stsjoyorsoa~row,§fc. Injine, all the como-_
real and intellectual Qw(-'88 are executed by the soul
during sleep. And Cicero [De lih. i.)
says: When 4iemindiscepuraudbysleepj5'on|the
aocietyand oontagionqftlaebody,:1 ibenremembers
the past, perceives the present, andforesees theflrtauve.
For -the body of a
sleeper lies like Lthat of one dead,
"bntthe mind .lives and is vigorous. How much
more-so after -death; when it shall have altogether
'separated from the body ! For this reason, upon
the approach of death, it becomes much more ca~
pable of divination."
'
Tandem experlentia constat quotidiann, in somno
corpus in
qulete esse, neque animum ab objectis externis distmhi: hinc
etinm operationes suas feliciua 'et promptius exsequi potent.
In insomniis baud mro multa nobis clara Hunt et detects, que
mtea noble fuereabsconditn, diu oblita in xnemorinm venixmt, et
-quicquid saepe natun denegnue videtur, id anime. in somno,
sui juri| reddita, prseatst. Sic saepe mihi, cu! nullum unquam
a nature datum est ingenium poetlcum, nliquoties obtiglt, ut
flegmdnimos latinas versus concinno ox-dine etnerle conzicerim
ot recitnverim, quorum aliquot vigilms de somno sdhuc recen-
eerepotui. Et qx!sinsacx-islitterlatamhospeaestqui nesciat,
Deum indnsomniis muimn nevelnssez nonnliam ob eausam,
Amsnx. Mseuzrxsm. 39
"And whobns not odbserved that sick persons,
especially hysterical Females, of whom I have seen
several, attacked with cataleptic and ecstatic affec-
tions, 'either during or after the paroxysm, have
predictedjlsture events,¢mdhavespokenin'languages
witioh they -themselves had never learnt, although
their parents knew them."-f
quam quiz mens tunc sit attentior ad ea capiends, quse reve-
lantur.
Solomon.
Antiquissimus medicorum parens, Hlrroclurrxs, id suo jam
tempore observavit sollertissime in lib. de Imomniia, ubi inter
initis scribit: Corpus cum vigllat, anime cogitafio non sul
juris est, sed partem aliquam singuli corpnris pau-tlbus, sive
sensibus, distrlbuit, auditui, visul, tactui, gnessul, -actioni ac
omni corporis hcultati. Cum autem corpus quiesclt, anizm in
motu est, et eorporis panes perreptms, domum suam gubemat,
etomnes eorporls sctiones ipsa pe:-Beit. Nam corpus dormiens
non
sentit,ipsaverovigllnnscognoscit,ecviaibiliav1det, et au-
dibilia audit, vsdit, tangit, tristatur, animadvertit. In summs,
qusecunque eorporis autanimae munia, es omnin anime. 'ipso in
somnomhit.-Et-Cxcsno, 'De pivinat. lib. i. Cum somno sevo-
cstus, sit, animusm soaietate et oontaglone eonporls, tumémemi-
nit pneteritorum, pmesentin cernit, future .previdet Jacet
anim»wrpla=d0tlnientis ut mortui, viget autem 'et vlvit snimus,
quad multo magls -fseiet post mortem, cum omnino-e corpore
excesses-it ;-itaque appropinquante motte multo est divinlor.
1-/Et quem hxgit aegrotantes, imprlmis 'mulleres hysterieas,
quss plures vidi, sdfectionecataleptica, quam pro ecstasi habue-
sintfbentssns, prsesente psroxysmo aut £uito,`i'utura pnedrlxisse,
ec lllhguis, quas ipsue nunqusm, patentee vero, didicerunt, -lo-
cutie.
`
The-celebnted Chevalier Folaxd, who, in`his old age, became
eiieedinglywlevout, frequently felllnto paroxysms of ecstssis.
Upon these occasions, he suddenly fell down, and became mo-
4,0 ANIMAL macmrrxsm.
The same
distinguished physician farther ob-
serves, in the same treatise, that cachetic or
phthy-
sical patients, when their bodily strength is ex-
hausted, often exhibit a much greater and truly
wonderful alacrity in explaining divine things, than
when in health ; and that in valetudinary and in-
iirm persons of more advanced age, the corporeal
powers--the memory and the imagination-de
crease, while the vigour of the intellect and the
judgment is augmented. This, it will be observed,
is coincident with the opinion of Valesius, former-
ly quoted.
tionless; afterwards he sung, then wept, and, at length, suddenly
began to speak in monusyllables-a sort of jargon which some
took tobe Slavonic, but which nobody could understand. When
his eyes were open he declared that he could see
nothing, but
was in total darkness; when they were shut, he said he was sur-
rounded by brilliant light, and in a most agreeable state. At
these times he is also said to have prophesied.-See a curious
work, entitled, Histoirs d'¢m Voyage Littoraire fait an 1788; also
the Biblioth. du Magnetiamc Animal, for December 1818-
The author of the foregoing narrative notices a parallel case,
mentioned in Jurlen's Pastoral Letters, of Isabella Vincent, a
shepherdess, between sixteen and seventeen years of age, who
fell into Hts of ecstasis, which resembled a profound sleep, out
of which it was impossible to awaken her. She was entirely de-
prived of sensibility. In her accesses, she spoke and said most.
extraordinary things, although she could neither read nor write.
Her voice was clear and distinct; and she had no violent or con-
vulsive motions. She prophesledhxture events, and promised
a speedy deliverance to the persecuted church. When the pa-
roxysm was over, she recollected nothing of what had occurred,
or what she had said.
ANIMAL maonnrlsm. 41
The opinions of a
philosophical physician of such
eminence as Driirederick Hoffmann upon a sub-
ject of this nature, originating in a sound, discri-
minating judgment, and founded upon an exten-
sive practical experience, I should be disposed to
consider as of very great value. Nor do I attach
less importance to those of another professional
gentleman, well known and esteemed in the scien-
tific world, whom I believe to have been, in his
day, perhaps the most learned physician in Europe,
and who, moreover, had the advantage of being in-
timately acquainted with the discoveries of Animal
Magnetism : I allude to the late Dr Sprengel.
This very learned individual published many ex-
cellent works upon medical and other scientific
subjects; amongst others, one in five volumes, en-
titled the Institutionsef Mediczhe ; from the second
volume of which I shall take the liberty of making
one or two quotations, which are exceedingly ap-
plicable to the subject I am now discussing. The
work is written in Latin ; but it is easily accessi~
ble; and I shall
translate those passages to which
I wish to call the attention of the reader.
Speaking of the magnetic Somnambulist, Dr
Sprengel observes (p. 303), "
Hence also that in-
stinct revives, by means of which the patientac-
quiresaknowledgeQfhisownstate¢fhealth,andqf
VOL. ll. p
42 ANIMAL Msczuvrlsm.
that ofany other person who is placed en
rapport
withhim--andiealsoenabkdtopredicttheduration
qfthecradsanditaterniination, andtoprescribethe
appropriate remedies. These remedies are general-
ly vulgar and domestic, when recommended by the
rustic; or oliicinal preparations, when prescribed
by the better educated man.
They are
frequently
such as a
physician would scarcely think of pre-
scribing-such as
culinary salt, a
pepper-bath, 8tc.
-but in most cases they do good, and Dr Wien-
holt does not recollect a single instance in which
they were administered without beneficial eifeutefi
In another passage (p. 3305); the learned Doctor
admits that "the Somnambulists predict the crisis of
their complaints, and determine their duration and
end. I have myself,'7 says he, "seena young man,
a relation of my own, _who had,never been treated
in this artificial manner," viz. by Magnetism-who
was therefore, I presume, a natural Somnambulist
-="`who, in 'the very crises themselves,_predicteld,
with the utmost certainty, the repetitions qf the ac-
cesses, prescribed the appropriate remedies, andjbre-
told the period when me disease should
°
Dr Descottes, in the year 1780, attended, at Argenton, two
young hysterical women, who were much attached to each other,
snd who knew each other's situation, although living separately
in distant houses; and who, moreover, always predicted their
own state of health, and that of the other, three or four days in
advance. (See Fr. Bmuier do Sauoages, Nosologia
ANIMAL MAGNETISM7 4-3
The volume from which I have quoted appears
to have been published so long ago as the year
1810, since which period, the faetsto which the
learned Doctor alludes have been abundantly con-
firmed and elucidated by a variety of additional
instances. I may add, however, that the testimo-
ny of Dr Sprengel in favour of the authenticity of
these facts is so much the more valuable, because,
like most other learned men, he was originally an
opponent of Animal Magnetism, and Wrote against
t. p. i. p. 398, &c) Iung-Stilling mentions a similar case
{1'haoria d. Geisuvkunde, p. 151) ; and Wienholt notices two cases
of a like description (Heilkr. d. Thicrisch. Magnet vol. iii. Abds.
2, u. 3).
According to the Bomish ritual, the speaking various strange
and unknown languages, and giving proper answers in each lan-
guage, is an undoubted mark of possession: as also, having an
insight into What is transacted in distant countries, and a faculty
of discovering secrets, without any means of information from
without. These circumstances, then, must have been known to
have occasionally occurred, however erroneous and absurd the
cause to which they were
To the opinions already noticed, in regard to the possibility
of the occasional manifestation of a
prophetic faculty, I may add
that of the late Mr Coleridge.
"
It is impossible," says he,
"
to say whether an inner sense does not really exist in the
mind, seldom developed, indeed, but which may have a
power
of presentiment. All the external senses have their correspon-
dents in the mind; the eye can see an object before it is dis.
tinctly apprehended ;-why may there not be a
corresponding
power in the soul? The power of prophecy might have been
merely a spiritual excitation of this dormant faculty."_TabI¢-
Talk, vol. i. pp. 36, 37.
44 ANIMAL MAcNE1°1sM.
its"doctrines and treatment ;--until he appears, at
length, to have satisfied himself of their truth and
utility by investigation, observation, and experi-
ment, when he manfully threw off his previous pre-
judices. But I am not aware that he ever was a
professed practical magnetizer, or that he looked
upon the subject in any other light than as a mat-
ter of science.
Dr Brandis, physician to the King of Denmark at
Copenhagen, a
gentleman of great professional emi-
nence, and who, by those who are
acquainted with
him or his writings, will not be accused of an enthu-
siastic or undue bias towards the doctrine of Animal
Magnetism, since he declares himself disposed to
view, with the utmost suspicion and scepticism,
every phenomenon which has not fallen under his
own observation-Dr Brandis, I say, amply and
unequivocally confirms this fact of the prevision of
somnambulists. "
The magnetised person," says
he,
"
predicts most
exactly the progress of his dis-
ease, and especially the individual incidents-at-
tacks of convulsions, syncope, evacuations, &c.-
Vwith all their concomitant circumstances; and,
with the same precision, he points out the period
of his cure. I confess," continues the Doctor,
"' that the exactness with which all such predic-
tions of four chirvoyantes, whom I myself have
ANIMAL MAcNa1'1sM._
'
45
hitherto had an
opportunity of observing, were ve-
rified, greatly astonished me." * A
The celebrated French physiologist Dr Georget
has, upon various occasions, and in the most decided
manner, recorded his perfect conviction, founded
upon experience, of all the remarkable facts of Ani-
mal Magnetism.
"
During forty years," says he-
now more than half a
century-" magnetism has
been studied, practised, propagated in France, and in
a
great part of Europe, by a multitude of enlighten-
ed and disinterested men, who proclaim its truth
in defiance of all the ridicule with which it is vain-
ly attempted to overwhelm them. It is a
very as-
tonishing thing, that Animal Magnetism is not even
known by name among the ignorant classes: it is
among the enlightened ranks that it finds support.
It is men who have received some education who
have taken its cause in hand: it is partly learned
men, naturalists, physicians, philosophers, who
have composed the numerous volumes in which
the facts are accumulated which may now be ad-
duced in its favour."
In another passage, the same enlightened physi-
cian pronounces the following peremptory opinion
in regard to the utility of the magnetic practice:
"
I believe that no
perfect medicine can exist but
that of the somnambulists in every thing which
"B|uxms, p. 102.
_
4~6 ANIMAL Macnzrrsn.
concerns themselves; and that it is possible to de-
rive advantage from their admirable instinct in the
case of other patients."
But it is not only in the works of the advocates
of Animal Magnetism, or of the candid and inde-
pendent inquirer, that we
may look for an
approval
of its principal doctrines, and a confirmation of its
more remarkable facts. Even the writings of its
professed opponents supply us with abundant tes-
timony in its favour; insomuch, that it is often ex..
cecdingly diiiicult to discover to what particular
points their opposition is directed. Their contro-
versial tactics resemble those eccentric operations
in actual wariinre, which are
generally a great deal
more showy than efective, and are never of any real
advantage against an
antagonist who cautiously
keeps his forces concentrated, and stands firmlypre-
pared to resist everyassault. Theymaysend upafew
brilliant but harmless rockets into the air, amidst
the obscurity previously produced by their own ar-
tificial contrivances; hut when these have once
exploded, and the atmosphere has again become
clear, no actual injury is found to have been in_
ilicted, and the relative situation of the combatants
continues the same as before!
'
I am not in the habit of regularly penxsing all the Reviews
which are published in this country, and consequently, it is pos-
sible that the opinions which some of them may have been
Anxmu. MAGNETISM. 47
In the following chapter, I shall produce some
instances of the inconsistency of the opponents of
Animal Magnetism, in attempting to deny the
reality of facts which they either directly or indi-
rectly, admit.-Fas est ab haste doceri.
_
pleased to express on the subject of Animal Magnetism may
have escaped my notice. This I can hardly regret, as those I
have happened to see have appeared to me to be the pure off-
spring of ignorance and prejudice. I understand that a critique
of the former edition of this work appeared some time ago in
one of the numbers of the Foreign Quarterly Review. I have
not myself seen the article, but the sample I have received of
its logic has not tempted me to take the trouble of looking into
it. The reviewer, I am informed by a friend, attempts to re-
Rite the truth of Animal Magnetism by means of the follow-
ing swam Wm at bszama an bgquecks at quaolwry; Gaz, sw-
sheim, and Hahnemann are believers in Animal Magnetism; but
Gall, Spwrzheim, and Hahnemann are quaclrs; ergo Animal Mag-
netism is quackerg.
Now, without objecting that as neither I nor any other writer
on the subject have ever
alleged the authority of any of these
gentlemen in favour of Animal Magnetism, it is surely incom-
petent to discreditthat doctrine hy an attempt to discredit a
testimony on which it was never sought to be established; with-
out objecting, also, that their quackery cannot be reasonably as-
sumed upon the ipse dizit of an individual, who has not even evin-
ced_his title, either from privilege or from intellectual and moral
capacity, to hold so decided an opinion on their merits ;-ad-
mitting, I say, all this, what is the nature of the reasoning it-
self? Let us test it by another application. What is believed
in byquuoks iaquackory; G. S. and H. are believers in Christianity ;
but G. S. ami H. are quaalrs; ergo Christianity is quackery.
There are few, I think, who would give much weight to the
opinion of any such logleian as this Reviewer, upon any scien-
tific subject.
(4»8~)
CHAPTER XXIV.
IN a
previous part of this work, 1 shewed that
the first French Commissioners who were
appoint-
ed to investigate the reality of the pretensions of
Animal Magnetism, in the infancy of the discovery,
with the very imperfect knowledge they possessed
of the treatment, and with all their avowed scepti~
cism and hostility to the system, nevertheless were
forced to acknowledge that certain eR`ects had been
produced by the processes they employed, and that
they even ventured to propound a
theory of their
own, in order to enable them to account for the
phenomena. I have also shewn that Dr Stieglitz
of Hanover, another opponent, has been compelled
to admit the whole of the facts, and that he actual-
ly ridicules the theories by means of which these
French Commissioners and others attempted to
explain them. I am now about to take some more
particular notice of another more recent and more
formidable assailant, and to point out, from an exa-
mination of his own works, what are his real and
un
prejudiced opinions upon the subject.
ANIMAL Maoru-:'r1su. 49
The article MAGNETIBME ANIMAL, in the Dic-
tionnaire des Sciences Medicales, was written by M.
Virey, a medical gentleman of considerable learn-
ing and talent. It was
composed with great care
and ability, and. every possible objection to the sys-
tem was
urged with much force and ingenuity.
In short, the article was all that the most violent
and obstinate opponents could have desired; and
it will probably be handed downto posterity, in
the learned work of which it forms a
part, as one
of the most splendid monuments of perverted in-
genuity and scientific prejudice. These opponents,
however, were not long permitted to enjoy their
imaginary triumph 'over the obnoxious doctrine.
Thearticle received a most elaborate and 'satisfac-
tory answer from the venerable M. Deleuze, in
which the whole ofthe objections urged by M.
Virey were effectually met and obviated, with all
that calmness, philosophy, dignity, and decision,
which so eminently distinguish the veteran histo-
rian of_Animal Magnetism!
`
'But I wish to have nothing 'to do, at present,
with M. Virey's refutation of Animal Magnetism.
My object, in the mean time, is to shew that, in his
°
See Dqfenudu Mayndiams Animal eonlrolesattaquesdontil
estfobfst damsle Dictionnairedcs Sciences Msdicales. Par M. J.
P. F. Dxaluza. Paris, 1819.
VOL. ll. '
E
50 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
other writings, when free from the fetters of pre-
.judiee, and not engigedin performing the task of
4
professed-_advocate or
speciallpleader, this inge-
nious gentleman has,aotua.lly.adopted' all the most
essentialropinions of the philosophers whose dog-
.mal he- attempts to controvert-that he is, in fact,
lll~AlliID81iMlgll6ti8§ in every thing but the name.
If I am; able tosatisfy my readers upon this point,
Ahoy cannot,-I think., lookupon the article in ques-
tion i.n,any other light than that of a clever Jeu
d'esprit.*
_
M. Virey speaks of Animal»Magneti|m, as of an
influence .which-may he felt at adistanee- -Now,
.imthe articleflurnuzscn of the ,Dictionnaire du
Medabalss, the author (M. Virey himself)
endeavours to establish .theprinciple that, when
two' beings are in sympathetic connexion with each
other (ontentre eua: des rapports), when their con-
stitutions. are in harmony, when two 'individuals
-have lived together, and are united by the most
tender afection and by similar habits; there lien
talueplace between them a transmissrbn if the va2a1
pnifleipkmlnd 01w.Qf tlaemis capable of acting upon
the other -at a distance.
`
"
As there is only, as it were, one I between
these' two beings, their souls will correspond; the
'
For the following references I am indebted to the volume
of M. Deleuze, mentioned in the Inst note.
\
ANIIIAL lIAGNE'l'I8H»
brother in France will have a presentimedv, even
in his dreams, ofiwhat;his brother maybe doing
in America,-in_a given situation. What stronger
proof.can we -require of the reality of sympathetic
inlluences ?*
"
If there existed between these individuals only
a
simple imitation, without" any transmission of
the vital influence from the one to the other, these
thusfassimilated, would resemble clocks
which strike the same hours at thesame moment,
`
'
One of the most remarkable instances upon record, of the
exemlse of this faculty of sympathetic or magneticpresentlment
or
visipnataidistanee, is to be found in the Manoiru ds Mar-
guerite dd Yaloia, Raine do Navarre, a
lady who has never been
accused of superstition; and the narrative bears all the marks
of authenticity. Moreover,_tiom the period it took place and
was recorded, it is obvious that it could have norneference to
of the modem doctrines of Animal Magnetism.. I shall
give the story in the original language.
H
_
Ll ma m¢;¢,r¢0Qi1~ s Metz, dangereusement malade de
lanevre. .Elle revant, et etant sssistée auteur de son lit du Roi
mon frere, et de ma soeur et mon frere de Lorraine,
de plusieurs<Messieurs du Conseil et de force dames et prin-
oesses, qui la tenant horsd'eppera.nce ns Pabbandonnoient point,
s'ecria, continuant ses reveries, comme si elle ent vu donner la
hattallle dé Jarnac: Voyés comme ils lixyent; mon iils a la vic-
lotre; helloni Dieu! relevés mon fils, il est par tene: Voyés
vous dans cette haye le Prince de Conde mort P Tous cena qui
etoient la crojolent qu'elle revoitQ Mais la nuit sprés M. de
Lopez lui en ayant apporté la nouvelle: Je le ssvois bien, dit
elle use Plvoisje vu mint-hier. Lore on rewnnut que e
n'etoit point reverie de iievre, _mais un avertissement que Dieu
donne aux
personnes illustres.-Many instances ofthe same phe-
nonienonxill be found in the various eases of the natural md
magnetic somnambulism adduced in this work.
52 ANIMAL maennrzsn.
but there would be no union between them, nei-
ther would act upon its neighbour. Let us
prove,
on the contrary, that there evidently exists a lrind
of
transfusion_of the _sensitive principle between
living bodies."
`
.
After having adduced his proofs, the author an-
nounces the conclusion in the following terms :
"
There exists then, in all probability, an invisible
and transmissible vital fluid; there are real indu-
ences in operation." .
_.
In the article Houma in the same
Dictionary,
written also by M. Virey, the author pronounces
the following severe censure
against the philoso~
phers and philosophy of the present timesi _
_
"
It is scarcely to be imagined with what an un-
pardonable degree of presumption, and in what a
peremptory and decided tone, the dogmatists esta-
blish their at least very problematical opinions,
and contemptuously treat as absurd, as ridiculous,
as
impossible, or even as
ignorance and folly, all
that is opposed to their sentiments.............
'
...... .
Now, is it not manifest, if we
will only reflect,
that man does not constitute the absolute measure
of all things? that there may exist, and that there
really do exist, powers or
principles imperceptible
by our senses, and whose existence is only revealed
by certain indications ? Take, for example,
netism-attraction at a distance. Our age, which
,
"For the same reason, wefrequently esperience,
-ANIMAL Mseuarism. A58
boasts so much of its superior lights, shews as
much horror for spirits, as Nature formerly did,
according to Aristotle, for a vacuum. We are in-
disposed to acknowledge any thing but matter and
no matter; we should deny the motion emanating
from living forces, if a thousand proofs did not at-
test it every hour in man and other animals. We
thus voluntarily deprive ourselves of the most won-
derful facts,`of the highest and most incomparable
truths, in order to attach ourselves to the uncer-
tain reports of the senses, to only the mo t brute
and material consequences; we do not even inves-
tigate upon what foundations the nature of man
reposes, whose sense and reasoning are taken for
supreme arbiters, as the universal rules."
In the article INSTINCT in the Dictionary above
named, likewise by M. Virey, we are told that it
is wrong to deny that man is endowed with in-
stinct, like the other animals; and that thisfaculty,
unexercised in our ordinary state, is developed in cer-
tain circurnstances, and gives us more certain infor-
mation than that which we can acquire by the senses
and experience.
"
Nature, acting then alone, and without being op-
posed or the intellectualfaculties or the
will, manyests those astonishing acts qfsalutary con-
directionfor the cure Qfdiseases."
4
54 ANIMAL Msourrrlsu.
during sleep, the annunciation or indication ofthe
staleqfthebody, which is the rnangfestvoiceqfthe
instinct? V
'
' '
4
'
'
M. Virey continues: "
We will not he accused
of giving credit to the _illusions of the pretended
Animal Magnetism ; but its disciples".s~uppoit~their
doctrine by well known caaes,£nw/cichlthe
comes intoplay,inoonsequenceqftheinactiv|lyqfM¢
external senses. Let a delicate or nervous female
abandon herself to that state of half-sleep called: the
magnetic sonunambulisrn, let her shut up her senses;
or the doors of external impressions, the internal
impressions becoming predominant, she will then
feel in a more lively manner; she will see, ,according
to herownlanguage, alltheinteriorqfherecono1ny~
.........'._..It is natural, and conformable w the laws
qftlae organism, that slaeshould .spontaneously desire
anddemandthosc kinds qf remedies which are most
appnpriate to her aalynents." , _
.
_
Now, although thefacts here are not very fairly
stated# -yet, taking M. Virey's own view of the
'V "
We do not know why one individual is more
susceptible
of somnambulism than another, why the same person is sus-
ceptible of somnambullsm in one diseaseymd not in another,
&.c.; but we are certain that men of a robust temperament
and an apathetic character Bill into somnambulism as easily
asdelicate and nervous women. The best somnambuusu are
not those who, In their waking state, appear to have an irritable
andydelicate nervoussystem. Wienholt
even became assured
that magnetism produces very little efect in inveterate nervous
l
Munn. mscnsnsm.
_
55
matter, what great difference does there exist be:-
tweeh the opinion he has expressed and that which
is held, upon experimental evidence, by the Ani-
mal Maguetists P Does notM. Virey acknowledge
the reality and the utility of the magnetic som-
nambulism ?. He does not, indeed, appear to have
a.
very accurate notion of the nature of the affec-
tion in question, which he improperly denominatee
a haljlsleep; but he admits the essential pheno-
mena. M. Virey, however, denies that a soxunam-
bulist can
"
contemplate the interior of the econe~»
my of another individual, prescribe remedies for
him," &c. But here the author seems to -have for-
gotten what he had previously said in tlieartiole
Iurnuancn, in which he acknowledged that such
a.
sympathetic connexion might be established be-
tween two individuals, as that the one should feel
all the complaints of the other.
It is rather remarkable, that' M.'Virey explains
the phenomena of the Instinct upon the same prin~
ciple to which Kluge and others attribute -those-of
Somnambulism. According to his view, the diffe-
rence that exists between the instinct and the in~
tellect results from the distinction of the two ner-
diseases, especially when the patient has made use of stimulants s
and I
believe that the most of those who have practised mag-
netism have acknowledged the truth of this observation."-DL
l-H3532 174515, ac' P' 67~
56 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
vous_ systems:
"
The interior or
ganglionic sys-
tem,"_ says he, "
is the exclusive seatof the instinct.
From thence emanate the spontaneous impulsions.
watches continually over the conserva-
tion of the individual, even during sleep, in deli-
rium, in disease." ML Virey had previously said
nearly the same things in the article Foncns Mn-
DICATRICESZ
ff When a sensible organization ob-
serves itself internally, the instinct speaks; it in-
spires and instructs the individual onthe subject
of his peculiar complaints, and frequently in
'
a
more luminous manner than the most skilfulphy-
sician is capable of doing. This internal voice' is
independent of the intellect: the most simple per-
sons, idiots, individuals half-asleep, are even more
capable of hearing it, because they are less distract-
ed by external sensations."
'
f
Now, the phenomena described by M. Virey are
precisely of the same class with those produced by
Animal Magnetism. M. Virey, indeed, is conti-
nually_ protesting against the idea of hi being
thought to give any countenance to what he is
pleased to call the "
extravagances" of Animal
Magnetism. But_he fully admits that nature some-
times, and under certain conditions, produces ex-
traordinary and most important changes on the
animal organism; and all the extravagance of the
magnetizers consists in having discovered and de-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 57
termined one of the causes by which these changes
may be developed, and in having given to this
cause a
particular name.
`
' I
Independently of the articles inserted in the
Dawonnairedes Sciences Medicaks, M. Virey is the
author of a
metaphysicaland physiological work,
in 'two volumes, published in 1808, under the title
of L'Art de Perfectibnner l'Homme. At the period
when this work was published, M. Virey was
per-
haps 'entirely ignorant of Animal Magnetism; at
least he does- not appear to have then had any idea
that he should one" day be engaged as the redoubt-
ed antagonist of that doctrine, for he makes not
the slightest allusion to the subject. In this work,
the author proponnds opinions in all 'respects coin-
cident withthose already noticed; and of these I
shall quote a few, for the purpose of shewing with
what consistency he can
attempt to controvert the
doctrines which he undertook to refute.
'
M. Virey recognises in man
"
a soul-a peculiar
force which animates him." (Vol. i. p. 2).
"
This
force has particular faculties, independent of the
organization of the body............. It is by 'means
of this invisible agent that we acquire all our
knowledge;............ it alone constitutes our true
being." pp. 4, 5).
' `
"Man is composed of three kinds of principles ;
1- Of an immaterial or intellectual soul; 2. Of a.
58 *ANIMAL lueunrlsm.
'
sensitive faculty, or life ;- and, 8. Of material cle#
ments."-(P. 7); "
In order to act upon the body,
the soul makes use of a
vitalprinciple, or oiia ner-
vous Huid, which is capable of impressing motion
and sensation uponz our `orgaue.f*-(Ibids) ~ .
"
Although this-principle? ienperhaps more sub-
tile than light, it appears to be a material sub~
stance, capable o£'aecumulatiu§,~aud~`eveu of pass~
ing from one body t»e.auodxer.'?~¢(P; Str) =
-
"
If there exist in the intervals ofV
the stars an
exceedinglyrare and subtile fluid, which has been
called ether, it must possess the most penetrating
qualities. It must even be capable of producing
the mostwonderful effects (as Newton and_ Euler
imagined). This ethereal substance being ableito
insinuate itself into the most compact. matters,
must produce in them diEerent edhcts, according
to the nature of the bodies, the inodilicationslof
which it is susceptible," 8zc.--(Pp. 15, 16.) *
"
The soul may sometimes acquire a
supernatu-
ral development,'and» receive from God an increase
of knowledge and of energy."--(P. 59.) . _
"
Our soul perceives without reason-ing, and by
a secret action of its faculties, harmonious rela.
tions with other souls, such as sounds have amongst
each other. We do not acquire this instinct by
'
See Appendix, No. iii.
ANIMAL mscumrxsu. 59
science, although it may berendered more perfect
by study."-(P. l'72.)
"
The sensitive 'element is not of the same na-
ture with thought: itis secreted in the brain; it
descendwinto the nerves; it exhausts itself and`is
renewed. ..,...An animal .is a fountain of life: it
loses some
part every day, and it extracts a fresh
portion from the surrounding bodies. We never
live more energetically-than when effusing the vital
principle outwards."-(Pp. 317-320.) -
i
,
The -author then' speaks of the sympathy that
exists between all human- beings by the mutual
transmission of their vital heat, and quotes the
dictum of Hippecxiates: Si quiz animam anima
miscerenon credul, ills decipit."-(P. 321.)
"
There may exist objects which transcend our
senses, and if we
perceive all thatis necessary for
us, we do not perceive- all that exists. We only
know the magnetic iiuid by- its effects upon iron,
and its polarity. Electricity was for a
long period
unknown. We may suspect that there are in the
world several subtile fluids, and certain concealed
properties, of which we have yet no notion; and
this is the reason why we find many phenomena
inexplicable."-(P. 852.)
A
"
The presence, thewuch,orthewordaq/`avery
eminent man, have a very singular influence on mji-
ferior minds, and are capable qf curing bodily dis-
60 ANIMAL MAGNE'r1sM.
ease. Hence fascinations, enchantments," &c.-
(Vol. ii. p. 22.)
»
"
M even in delirium, the soul preserves clear and
lively ideas; 0' it perceives what is suitable to the
malady, and discoversthe appropriate remedies; if it
foresees the accesses ofthe crises, the cure, or death-
it is a proofthat it is not changed in its essence. This
delirium, in fact, only changes the state of the body,
the pure spirit being an incorruphble principk."-
(P. 2o9.) .
-~~'e
~ '
'
"
Our soul is susceptible of three principal states:
1. That of ordinary life, which' employs the soul
and the body; 2. That of dreaming or delirium,
which chieiiy occupies' the sensitive faculties of the
body; 8. The state of ecstatic meditation, in which
the soul acts almost alone."-(P. 2l2.) In u. sub-
sequent passage, the author observes, that, in this
last state,
"
the soul can contemplate events from a
of view, and itsdreams have something
qfa prophetic character ; for being prodigiousv se-
parated from the body by meditation, it seems to
have diffused itself throughout universal nature,
where it can remark many eE'ects in their source."
-(P. 23"/.)
s
"
The habit of directing his nervous
energies,
gives to him who contracts it a marked superiority
over other men.......Experience proves that the will
sends the vital spirits into the nerves."-(P. 267.)_
AN IMAL MAGNETISM. 61
"
Our soul has spontaneous motions(......... It
acts alone, without the concurrence of the body: it
directs the vital pirits to where they are
_required
to go. ......... It organises the faetus ......... In dis-
eases, it constitutes that natura medicatrix, which,
taking care to' direct the ,humours in a
salutary
manner, points out to the physician what he ought lo
do. ......... It is not an
acquired science, but an in-
nate faculty. Instructed by the Author of all be7
ing Himself, the soul has no need of acquired know-
ledge, which is only relative to external objects."
-(Pp. 324, 225.) , 4
_
'
"
When the equilibrium of health has been de-
turbed, the motion of the soul mechanically aspires to
restore it. .....'. Every disease frequently discovers its
remedy, if we will only listen to its
Medicine is in ourselves; we do not create, we
develope it, when, consulting in silence theimpulse of
nature, we_favourits directum, according to the
of H@>pocrates : Quo natura vergit eo ducendum
est. ...... Nature may produce in every heing the de-
sire qf an olyect, and cause an individual
to divine a remedy, qfwhich, perhaps, all the science
of the phymbian would never have dreamt."-(Pp.
sw, ssl.) _
'
"
Without doubt, we owe to a certain ability of
mind those predictions which result from expe-
rience andi prudence; but nature replaces this ad-
62 ANIMAL uacnsrisu.
vantage, in animals, and the most simple of man-
kind, by very delicate instincts. Our souls have
naturally a taetwhich gives themfa presentiment
of seasons, and sometimes of events. ...... The more
themind is occupied with science, the less is it
moved by internal impressions. Ignorance, too,
by leaving thesoul inits-natural condition, is more
susceptible of instinctive impressions, than the lo-
and limited march of the reasoning power."
-(Pp.>34»6-348.)
'
""
Amongst doubtful events, when -we cannot
form a
conjecture as to what may be the issue, if
we take them so much to heart as to'~beoome heat-°
ed, the sonl is enlightened, and sometimes -pene-
trates into the future:...... A prophet does not know
the cause' of his prophecying: -he feels himself
moved by a
power which exceeds his natural ener-
he does not- divine all things, but only that
which comes into his thoughts."-(P. 852.)
"'
This species of divinationari es, and is lost
naturally, and is with diiculty retained. When
the' mind manyhsts it,'all the smsesare in a state of
temporary suspensfkm, and nothing external dis~
mists them."-(P;s54~.)
"
Our soul may he placed in such harmony with
that of another, as to divine many accidents which
may befal him, although the hodies'maybe distant
'from each other."--(P. 859.)
"
ANIMdll MAGNETISM. 63
Such are some of the deliberate and unpreju-
diced opinions of M. Virey. I do not feel myself
called upon either to defend or to controvert them.
But I cannot help expressing my astonishment that
the individual professing them should affect to be
so
decidedly hostile to Animal Magnetism-a stu-
dy which supplies the only experimental data by
which they are
capable of being supported!
MJ Fournier, the 'author of the article Errnuvn in the
Dklionnairs dn Sciences Medioakr, mentions the following cu-
rious ihct. "
For ourselves, who have witnessed several effects
of magnetism, but who are not yet sufliciently enlightened to
lisvea Bxed opinion upon its causes, its advantages, or even the
extentofits power, and who in our observations are always guided
by the spirit of philosophical scepticism, we attest that many
persons have vainly attemptedto make us experience magnetic
efects; a
single physician succeeds in producing upon us their
manifestations. Scarcely have we
subjected ourselves to his
luiouchemens, when we experience, without being able to pre-
vent it, a somnolency, a numbness, more
agreeable than pain-
ful, which chains down ourwill and our thought; and if in these
circumstances we feel my spasmodic pain, an attack of megrim,
it almost suddenly disappears. The physician qf whom we speak
aimq/so cmlributorsloihis nmnmy, wx no amanguwwa
himselfas one qfthe most eloquent adversaries qfmagnetimc."
can the physician here alluded to be M. virey.
( 64 )
CHAPTER XXV.
HAVING noticed the almost universally prevalent
belief in the occasional development of some most
extraordinary powers and faculties in certain states
of the human organism; having produced various
instances in which the remarkable phenomena in
question ,were conspicuously manifested in the na-
tural somnambulism; having quoted the opinions
of many ingenious and impartial physicians and
philosophers, who have borne distinct and ample
testimony not only to the possibility but to the ac-
tual
occurrence of the facts, and having, moreover,
shewn, that the most celebrated antagonists of Ani-
mal Magnetism fully admit the essential data upon
which that doctrine is founded; I trust that my in-
telligent readers are now
prepared to follow me to
the consideration of certain cases, which, without
such preparation, they would unquestionably have
been disposed to regard with the utmost scepticism,
notwithstanding the undoubted competency and re-
spectability of the reporters. The phenomena I
.ANIMAL maeurmsu. 65
am now about to illustrate by a few examples, are
those which have been found to occur in the Mag-
netic Soninambulism; and I think these examples
will sufliciently shew that the opinions I recently
referred to have been abundantly confirmed by di-
rect experiment. ,
-
I shall pass over the works_ of the_ Marquis de
Puysegur, and those of Tardy de Moutravel,-
whose cases, although of the highest importance to
the study of this interesting subject, are generally
too minutely reported for convenient abridgment,
-and commence with a case of which the details
will be found in the works of one of the earliest
patrons of the magnetic treatment after Mesmer,
and one of the most sober, honest, and intelligent
writers upon the doctrines and practice of Animal
Magnetism-Dr Wienholt. The case itself is
otherwise interesting, as
having first given occasion
to the introduction of this branch of medical prac-
tice into Bremen!
In consequence of a complete failure of all the
ordinary means of cure, in the case of one of his
female patients, Dr Wienholt resolved to resort to
Magnetism., This resolution was
approved of by
his "colleague, Dr Olbers-the celebrated astrono-
mer,-who, however, had, at that time, little confi-
'
Wxrxwnoxxr, Heilhr. d. Thief-inch. Magnet. voL i.
VOL. ll. I'
66 'ANIMAL' MKGNETISM.
dence in the ofiicacy of the treatment.
'
The _lady
was magnetized, forthe first time, on the 6th of
July; and for some weeks there- was little percep-
tible change in her state, excepting that her com-
plaints gradually became less frequent Rlid-lOl! vio-
lent. After about three weeks, ~tbe Doctor sper-
ceiéed that, when hefmanipulated her dulingacaf
taleptic attack, especially towards the pit of _the
stomach, she occasionally became more restless,
her limbs appeared lessfrigid, and, the lit more
nearly resembled a natural- sleep; I needriot #bk
low the progress of this successfultreatmeut farther
than just to point- outthe remarkable phenomena
which occurred. 'Upon the 4th of. September, the
lady appears -to have become somnambulist for
the first time, and the doctor now .heard _herzspeak
in her sleep. She told severabstories -in a oheerfifl
tone, mingled with some strokes of good-natured
satire--her expressions weredigniiied and approa-
priate, and perfectly coherent-her voice .was more
rnelodious than usual, and she spoke in a
superior
dialect. At this time she answered no questions,
but proceeded with the narrative in which she hap-
pened to be engaged.
»
When the doctor visited her
in the evening of the same day, she immediately
began to Ispeali, and mentioned, amongst other
things, that acertain physician, otherwiseastranger
to her, wished her to take rhubarb. The doctor
ANIMAL MAGNl:'r1sM. 67
then asked her whether shewould not take rhubarb,
as it might perhaps do her good. She answered,
"
No lit is impossible for me to take it." She was
then asked whether an emetie would be of service
to her. She answered,
"
No." "
Whether she
would drink some
Pyrmont water F" "Not yet,"
was the answer. To other questions she gave no
answer at all. After having been again magnetived
for some time, the doctor began to ask questions,
and received precise an wers. She was asked if
she would eat a particular kind of soup ? She an#-
swered, "
No."-" Why ?"-" Because I am sick."
-" Oh! you are not sick#-you look so cheerful
and pleased-get up and walk about."-" How can
I do so?-my limbs wont carry me."-" When
will your sickness terminate ?"-" I do not know."
-" Will you resume your bathing ?"-No answer.
-" Will you drink Pyrmont water P"-" No."-
"
Why P"-" Because it would be of no use to me
at present." On asudden, she turned round and
began to question the doctor. "
Did not you tell
your wife that you conversed with me during my
sleep ?" The doctor denied this. "
Now," said
she, "
you are not telling :the truth." Here, Dr
Wienholt observes that 'neither he 'nor his wife
were
uponany 'footing of friendly intercourse with
this lady or-her relations, and, therefore, she had
no means of knowing any confidential communica-
68 -ANIMAL Macnnrlsm.
tion he might have made to his wife. .
"
Yes." said
the doctor,
"
I confess I told her so."
'
.
_
Upon another' occasion, the doctor again asked
her. whether she .would not _resume her bathing.
She answered in the ailinjmative. "Should the
bath be cold, as
formerly ?"-"YNo, rather warmer.'?
+" Will you be able _to bear it now P"-" I believe
I shall.'f-" Do_ you think _that ,steel would be of
use tn
you ?" ,
This question was also answered in
the aiiirmative. _" Shall I give it you in drops or
in powders ?"-'F In _drops,"e" Would not some
glasses of Pyrmont water, taken early in the morn-,
ing, be of advantage to you ?"-" O, yes." When
asked whether Magnetism ought to be continued
in the same way as hitherto, she_ answered in the
dmfmddvd, and added dm it would be ddmdiem
to administer it once a,-day. This lady repeatedly
answered many similar questions in her sleep, and
also pointed out the particular treatment which
would be of most benefit to her.
I
At another time, Dr Wienholt happened to ask
her whether she had lately receiyed any letters
from her brother in Riga. _She answered,
"
_No-
he_has been sick, very sick."-" How do_you know
this ?"-3-No answer.--" Who told you so ?"-" No-
body."-" Have you dreamt it then P"-A serious
and imeasy look, but no answer. The doctor again
asked her how she_ had come to entertain such
ANIMAL useumism. _
69
thoughts.
'
She answered that certainly nobody had
told her, but, nevertheless, she knew that he had
been extremely ill. Her mother knew nothing of
this illness, and so little did she herself suspect it
in her waking state, that she expressed great sur-
prise when accounts arrived, 'some days afterwards,
that her brother had been seriously indisposed, but
was
getting better.
Upon one occasion, Dr Olbers came into the
hou e, and the patient, without being told of it,
knew that he was in the ante-chamber. Next
morning, the mother said that she had spoken to
her daughter, when awake, 'upon this subject, and
that she recollected nothing of the circumstance.
The Doctor asked the patient, when asleep, how
she came to
_know yesterday that Dr Olbers was
in the ante-chamber. She answered, because she
had seen him; and being again asked how she
could pos ibly see him when her 'eyes were shut,
and the wal] and the door were between them-
she could give no satisfactory explanation of the
phenomenon.
At another time, this patient, during her mag-
netic' sleep, predicted two fainting-fits which were
to take place the' next day, and which took place
accordingly.
'
'
This case
presents a
variety of other instances
of the magnetic clairvoyance, which are related
70 ANIMAL umunrrsm.
with great minuteness by Dr Wienholt himself, in
his principal work on .Animal Magnetism; butyl
am unwilling to enter any farther into the detail
of these particulars, and must therefore refer the
reader tothe work itself :
being anxious to proceed
to noticeother cases, in which phenomena of a sif
milar description were manifested. -
A
-
In the first volume of the Bibliotlteque du Mag-
netirnie Animal, there is a short ascount of the
magnetic treatment ofa Madame G. by M. de Fa-
lieres. This lady was much contused and injured
by an accident, and was
magnetized by the gentle-
man above named. At the very first sitting, she
became somnambulist, described her own com#
plaints, prescribed the appropriate remedies, and
predicted the period of her recovery, with great
exactness.
'
In the same volume, the following case is re-
ported by M. Lamy Senart :-FA M. Baron was
magnetized by this gentleman, and placed in a state
of somnambulism. At the third sitting, the patient
alluded, by signs and gestures, to a
journey which
the operator was obliged to make, and at which he
expressed great concern. M. Senart assured him
that he should return in the course of eight days.
Upon this, the patient held up first his ten fingers,
and then a single one, by which the operator un-
derstood him to intimate that he should be absent
ANIMAL mxeusrrssr. 71
eleven days. The question was
put to him, and
he answered, by a motion of his head, that such
was his meaning. M. Senart renewed his promise
of being back in eight days; -but the patient per-
sisted in holding up eleven lingers. M. Senart was
a
good deal struck by this prediction; but, in-point
of fact, although he persevered_ in his original in-
tention, he met with an accident which detained
him on -the road, and he did not return till the
eleventh day, thus verifying the prediction of M.
Baron.»»»
"
_
This patient also saw and described his own
complaint, predicted a severe fit of convulsions,
and, at the request of the operator, pointed out the
means of averting it. He was likewise consulted
upon the complaints of others,.and, in the words
of the reporter, such was his lucidity, that he was
never once mistaken with regard to the diseases of
the patients who consulted him, who all went away
satisfied and astonished at the sagacity and accnQ
racy of his decisions. M. Senart has appended an
account of some of these consultations to his report
of this case. I may add, that this .patient predict-
ed, with great accuracy, the period of his recovery.
One of the consultations alluded to is rather cu-
rious and amusing. .
A certain physician, having
heard of the extraordinary faculties manifested by
M. Baron, came from a distanceof fifteen leagues,
'72 ANIMAL Mscusnsm.
'
for the purpose of seeing and examining him. M.
Senart set the patient asleep by magnetism. His
sleep appeared to the physician to be so natural,
that he could not be persuaded that he was in a
state of somnamhulism. He was then placed en
rapport with the patient, and requested to ask him
some questions respecting his complaint. The phy-
sician, in his examination, made use of medical
terms: the Somnarnbulist answered him correctly,
but without employing the same
phraseology. The
inquisitive observer pressed the patient with ques-
tions, in hopes of leading him into some mistake.
They conversed about half _an hour, at the termi-
nation of which period the physician declared :
"
I
can' now make no
objection to him-in fact, he
knows more than I do myselll"
But the experiments were not yet at an end.
"
Am I in bad health ?" asked the physician.
"
No," answered the patient.
"
Have I been in-
disposed ?" "
No." "
What is the reason of this ?"
"Thoughtless persons, like you, are seldom indis-
posed." The physician asked no more
questions.
His brother, M. Cambronne, merchant at Saint-
Quentin, then said to him :
"
Well, brother! he
never saw you before, but you must
acknowledge
that he knows you pretty well."
In an article upon the Vital Fluid, in the second
volume of the same Journal, an extract is commu-
ANIMAL Msuuarrsm. 73
cated from a letter, dated from Cadenet, in the de-
partment of Vaucluse, in the month of October
1802, giving an account of two young Magnetizers
-the one
Anthony Tronchon, a lad of twenty-one
years of age, and the other a
girl of twenty, called
Virginia. The following is the method in which
Tronchon is described as
proceeding to his consul-
tations. He sits down in an arm-chair; his bro-
ther then magnetizes him, and he falls asleep
speedily and profoundly. The patients are then
brought near him, and, in his somnambulism, he
describes with great exactness all their complaints,
and the sympto which preceded and which ac-
company them, without passing over even the most
minute particular. The complaints once known,
be prescribes the appropriate remedies, recom-
mending only simples. He points out to the pa-
tients the mountains where they grow; and cer-
tainly, without having studied Linnaeus, l|e de-
scribes them in such a manner, that they may be
recognised at the first glance. The girl, Virginia,
operates in a similar manner, and with equal suc-
cess. I may here observe, that the cures alleged
to have been performed of old in the Greek tem-
ples, are
supposed to have been eifected according
to some method analogous to that now described;
vor.. 11. G
74 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
and upon this supposition we might be enabled to
explain many ofthe mysteries ofthe ancient priests,
without having recour e to the agency of supersti-
tion and delusion. My limited space will not per-
mit me to enlarge upon this subject at present; but
I am not the first who has had occasion to remark
that such is often the fate of human knowledge.
"
It is found and lost, and found again; like one
of those rivers which, after flowing visibly over a
certain space, sink into the ground, and are lost
for a time, but afterwards return to the surface of
the earth, and again roll along in day-light."*
In the same article from which I have extracted
the preceding account of the two young Ma.gneti_
zers, the author mentions that, at Landau, he once
magnetized a lady of about thirty years of age, who
had been fatuous from her birth. She belonged to
an
opulent and distinguished family, who had used
every possible means to endeavour to restore her
intellect, but without success. When placed in a
state of somnambulisrn, she conversed upon vari-
ous matters with great propriety ; she was no longer
the same being; a
person who saw her then for
the first time would never have suspected that she
was deficient in mental energy. Her parents, who
were' present, were astonished, wept for joy, and
'
Edinburgh Annual Register, for l8l0, p. 520.
ANIMAL Masnnrism. 75
exclaimed: "
Ah! why is she not always a Som-
nambulist ?"*
In the same volume of the work referred to,
there is a letter from a
lady to M. Deleuze, the ce-
lebrated writer on Animal Magnetism, containing
an account of a
very curious case. The lady was
ailiicted with a
very serious complaint, and, despair~
ing of relief from the ordinary resources of medi-
cine, she applied to a Magnetizer, who agreed to
undertake her treatment. He accordingly did
magnetize her during three or four months, when,
'
The author of the article from which I have made the above
extracts, makes the following observations upon this subject.
"
I have often had occasion to remark, that persons affected
with mania, or labouring under some mental irregularity which
caused them to be taxed with slight insanity, are, in the state
of somnambulism, generally more clairvoyants than others, and
that, at such times, they exhibit no indication of the defects of
mind with which they are charged. I have remarked the same
thing in cases where the intellectual faculties were absent, or
manifestly iniirm.
"
These phenomena are suliiciently explained by the observa-
tions of old and experienced physicians. They know that par-
tial insanity, diiferent kinds of mania, symptoms of an habitual
aberration of mind, have most frequently their principal seat in
some deeply afected circus of the epigastrium; and, in that case,
the irregularity of the cerebral functions is only sympathetic.
Now, somnambulism, has the effect of insulating the latter, of
rendering them, for the time, independent of their usual rela-
tions, of withdrawing the brain from its morbid afections; and
it is by such means that this organ instantaneously acquires this
freedom, this facility, this great latitude of operating, which it
enjoys in this state."
76 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
visiting her one
day, he saidhe was afraid that he
should not be able to magnetize her, as he was
himself very much indisposed. The lady then pro-
posed to magnetize him-he consented-and in a
quarter of an hour he became somnambulist. He
requested that his eyes might be bandaged, as he
thought he should then be able to see better. The
lady then requested that he would examine him-
selh and endeavour to discover how his sufferings
might be relieved. He answered: "
I have too
little fortitude, and am
easily aifected. My com-
plaint is trifling, and I shall be well to-morrow.
It is you that I must examinel But how fortunate
it is that you have made me somnambulist I Hence-
forth, we shall always commence our
magnetic
treatment in this manner, and I assure you that
you will be well attended to." -
From that period," the lady constantly set her
magnetizer asleep every day, and in consequence
of following his prescriptions, while in a state of
somnambulism, her complaint (a scirrhus) was re-
moved. While in this state, too, he predicted that
she should be attacked, some time afterwards, by
a complaint of a different nature. This prediction
was fulfilled, and she was again cured in precisely
the same manner as before. The veracity of this
account is vouched by M. Deleuze himself; who
knew the parties. _
ANIMAL Macuxrlsm. '17
At the end of the same volume, there are Re-
ports of the magnetic treatment of four females,
amongst others, by M. Germon, Curate of Saint-
Aubin-le-Cloux. All of these four became lucid
somnambulists, and, in _that state, prescribed the
proper remedies for their diferent complaints.
They were all cured but one,_ whose complaint,
however, was much alleviated, and hopes were en-
tertained of her complete recovery. These Reports
are certified by the authorities of the place, and by
other respectable persons.
In the fourth volume of the Baszamqw at Mag.
netisme Animal, M. de Puysegur gives some
account
of a woman, Agnes Burguet, called La femme
Maréchal de Buzancy, of whom he had made men-
tion in some of his previous writings. This wo-
man' had for many years been subject to irregular
and periodical fits ofconvulsions, accompanied with
other symptoms, which, if left to themselves, would
inevitably have terminated her existence. She had
been treated magnetically by M. de Puysegur,
whom she always apprised, in due time, of the day
and the hour when a lit was to come on. When
in a state of somnambulism, she not only saw her
own complaints and prescribed for them, but also,
after careful examination, saw and prescribed for
the complaints of others with whom she was
placed
en rapport; of which remarkable faculty several
'78 ANIMAL Maeumism.
instances are given in the volume referred to. M.
de Pnysegur observes, that it was
always necessary,
upon these occasions, to submit implicitly to the
dictates, and to execute punctually the directions,
of the
Somnambulist; and this observation is con~
iirmed by the experience of every other practical
magnetizer. _The prescriptions of Somnambulists
are
invariably found to be eiiicacious--a deviation
from them frequently proves dangerous.
In the same volume of the Bibliotheque, there is
an extract of a letter written by the Countess de C.
Her son, who had been under magnetic treatment
fifteen years before, had predicted, in his last crisis
of somnambulism, that he should enjoy good health
for fourteen years, but that, at the termination of
that period, he should again become seriously in-
disposed. This prediction was fulfilled, and the
patient was
again relieved by the same mode of
treatment.
There is also, in the same volume, an account by
M. Thiriat, Doctor of Medicine and Physician at
the mineral waters of Plombieres, of a
patient
who was sent to consult him and to drink the wa-
ters, on account of some complaints, originating, in
a
great measure, from previous injudicious treat-
ment. This lady having been magnetized by M.
Thiriat, she became somnambulist, and gradually
more and more clairvoyante. In a short time, she
ANIMAL MAGNE'r1sM. '79
conversed with the Doctor about her situation with
a
precision which astonished him. She pointed out
the cause of her complaints, and prescribed the
treatment necessary to restore her to health. The
thermal waters did her good by strengthening her ;
but the grand remedy, says Dr Thiriat, was the
magnetic sleep, during which she pointed out the
manipulations which ought to be used, and the
other medical means which ought to be employed.
"My knowledge of medicine," says the Doctor,
"
never
placed me for an instant in contradiction
with her indications. I may even assert, that she
sometimes rectified my own ideas." This lady even
discovered one day, by accident, that the Doctor
himself was indisposed, and she pointed out the na-
ture of his complaints, and the remedies he ought
to employ. We have the Doctor`s own assurance
that the mode of treatment she prescribed was ex-
ceedingly appropriate and completely successful.
He also consulted her in the case of some of his
other patients, and was perfectly satisfied with the
reflections she made upon them.
Madame Hugaut had a weakly child, upon whose
case Dr Thiriat thought it advisable to consult
some of his somnambulists; The husband of this
lady was
very incredulous, and although he had
witnessed some
very extraordinary magnetic phe-
nomena, he could never be convinced of their rea-
80 Amman MAGNETISM.
lity, until this consultation about his own child.
Madame Chevalier, another patient of the doctor's,
was
exceedingly clairvoyante in her somnambulism,
and transported herself mentally to the house of
this gentleman, whom she did not know, and of
whose place of residence she was ignorant in her
waking state. She there saw his son, a
boy of
twenty-seven-months, described his situation and
the nature of his complaints, and predicted some
other symptoms which were to occur. Mademoi-
selle S., another somnambulist, was consulted next
day upon the case of the same child, and repeated
precisely the same
things, only that she entered
more into detail; but although in other respects
quite as clairvoyante as Madame Chevalier, Made-
moiselle S. could not transport herself mentally
into a house she did not know: it was
necessary
that she should touch the persons about whom she
was consulted.
The following case occurred at Paris, in the
chambers of Dr Fouquier, in the year 1880, and
was witnessed by a great many persons.
Petronillaleclerc, aged twenty-six, was admit#
ted into the Hoapdal de la C/aarité, amicted with a
cerebral, spasmodic, epileptiform aB`ection. M.
Sebire, who had charge of her, applied magnetism
to her several times, when some very remarkable
phenomena were manifested.
Amman nacnnrlsm. 81
In the first sitting, the somnambulist gave seve-
ral marks of lucidity. The person who had mag-
netized her, presented to her some objects, such ns
a bottle filled with vinegar, sugar, bread, Src. which
she recognised perfectly well without seeing them.
Besides, she had a
bandage over her eyes. In or-
der to answer
questions which were put to her, she
turned to the opposite side, and plunged her face
into the pillow. Without being asked, she said to
the person who was holding her hand, F' You have
got s headach." The fact was true; but to try
her, M. Sebire answered that she was mistaken.
"
That is singular," she replied,
"
I touched some
person who had a headach, for I felt it." She dis-
tinguished several persons who were
present at the
experiments by some
peculiarities of their dress.
One of the most remarkable circumstances was
the following. The magnetizer had retired, after
promising to return at half-past five o'clock, 'in or-
der to awaken her. He arrived before the time.
The somnambulist made him observe that it was
not yet half-past live. The latter answered that
he had just received a letter which obliged him to
return sooner.
"
O yes !" she immediately replied,
"
it is that letter which you have in your portfolio
between a blue and yellow card." The fact was
strictly true. M. Sebire, without saying any thing,
placed a watch behind the occiput, and then asked
82 ANIMAL Macnnrism.
her what o'olocl< it was. She answered,
"
Six mi-
nutes past four ;" and she was
right.*
I conceive it quite unnecessary to bring forward
any more instances, than those already adduced, of
that phenomenon of lucid vision, which consists of
the faculty of seeing through intervening obstacles,
and of intuition, that is to say, that condition of the
organism, in which, as
formerly described, the pa-
tient obtains a clear knowledge of his own internal
mental and bodily state, is enabled to calculate,
with accuracy, the phenomenaof disease which will
naturally and inevitably occur, and to determine
what are their most appropriate and effectual re-
medies; as also to exercise the same power of in-
ternal inspection with regard to other persons who
have been previously placed in magnetic connexion
with him. M. Chardel, the ingenious author of an
essay on Physiobgical Psychology, assures us-and
I have no doubt of the fact-that he could adduce
hundreds of examples of these phenomena, which
occur in almost every magnetic treatment; but that
it appears to him quite superfluous to be continually
recurring to the reality of facts which have been
already so
amply established. I shall, therefore,
now
proceed, in the progress of my induction, to
give a few instances of those phenomena which oc-
'
aww tu sane, isao, No. ae.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 88
cur in Dr Kluge's sixth degree, and which have
been thus described in a former part of thi work:
"
In the sixth degree, the lucid vision (clair'vog-
ance), which the patient possessed din the former
degree, extends to all objects, near and at a ,dis-
tance, in space and in time; hence it has been _de-
nominated the degree of universal lucidity."
( 84- )
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE first two or three instances of the pheno-
mena in question, I shall extract from the work of
M. Chardel, already referred to, who treats of Ani-
mal Magnetism incidentally, as connected with
psychological science, and who, moreover, speaks
from personal knowledge of the facts he relates.
M. Chardel had two sisters as his patients, who
were both magnetic somnambulists, and in the
most intimate ra_zqnort with each other. M. Chardel
proposed to bleed the elder of these two sisters in
the foot. In the mean time, the younger sister,
after being magnetized, felt somewhat indisposed,
and went to bed in another room. The father and
mother remained to assist the operator. At the
first attempt to insert the lancet, a
piercing cry
was heard to proceed from the bed-room of the
younger sister, who, on entering it, was found to
he in a swoon, in the position in which she had
gone to sleep. M. Chardel recovered her, and en-
quired the cause of her fainting. She then related
the details of all his movements in the projected
ANIMAL Macnnrxsm. 85
operation. She said that she had constantly fol-
lowed him with her eyes, and that, at the moment
he was
going to insert the lancet, an emotion, which
she could not control, had entirely deprived her of
sense. In the case of ordinary life, this would have
been impossible, considering the distance and the
intervening walls.
'
The same author mentions the following anec-
dote, upon the authority of a.
gentleman of distinc-
tion and credit.
The wife of this gentleman had a femme de
chambre in a
very weak state of health. She mag-
netized her, and placed her in a state of somnambu-
lism. The lady was assisted by her husband. One
day, when the magnetic sitting was
accompanied
with some considerable pains, the patient asked
for some old wine( The husband took a candle,
and went down to the cellar in search of it. He
descended the first flight of steps without any ac-
cident; but the cellar being situated pretty far un-
der ground, the steps in the lower part were wet.
He slipped upon the stair, and fell backwards, but
without hurting himself, and even without extin-
guishing the light which he' held in his hand.
When he returned with the wine, he found that
his wife was informed of his fall, and of all the
particulars of his subterranean journey-the som-
nambulist having related them to her exactly as
86 Amman MAGNETISM.
they happened. M. Chardel says that he could ad-
duce several other instances, within his personal
knowledge, of a similar degree of clairvoyance ha-
ving been manifested at much greater distances.
The same respectable author mentions that he
knew the wife of a Colonel of a
cavalry regiment,
who was magnetized by her husband, and became
somnambulist. Having himself become indisposed,
he was
obliged to call in to his assistance, for eight
or ten days, an otiicer of the same
regiment. At
a magnetic sitting subsequent to this, the husband
having placed his wife in a state of somnambulism,
called her attention to this oliicer. "
Ah ! the
wretched man!" she exclaimed,
"
I see him-he is
at--, he is going to kill himself-he has a
pis-
tol in his hand-run, run !" The place was about
a
league distant-the husband mounted his horse,
and made all the haste he could; but he arrived
too late-the suicide had been already perpetrated.
My readers may perhaps recollect the case of
Madame P., which is recorded by the late Com-
mittee of the French Royal Academy of Medicine,
in their celebrated Report, a translation of which
was
formerly published, and which will now be
found in the Appendix. It will probably be re-
membered that this lady was
placed, by means of
Magnetism, in a state of complete corporeal insen-
sibility, and, while in this situation, had a serious
Amman Macmrrxsm. 87
and painful operation performed upon her~by M.
Cloquet. M. Chardel has preserved several addi-
tional particulars relative to this case, which are
well worthy of notice.
This lady, whose name was Madame Plantin,
had a married daughter, Madame Lagandré, who
resided in the country, and was unable to repair
to Paris until some
days after the operation had
been performed upon her mother. Madame La-
gandré, having been magnetized, became somnam-
bulist, and manifested a
very remarkable degree of
lucidity. It was
proposed to consult her upon the
state of her mother, and for this purpose Dr Cha-
pelainmagnetized her on the 26th of April, and
questioned her on the subject. She answered by
giving a circumstantial and accurate description of
her mother's complaints, and predicting ber death in
the course of two days, in spite of all that could be
done for her. On the following day, Dr Chapelain,
upon visiting his patient, Madame Plantin, found
that the melancholy prediction of the Somnambu-
list was about to be verified. She was
evidently
much worse. M. Cloquet requested Dr Chapelain
to place Madame Lagandré in a state of somnam-
bulism, and put several questions to her relative to
Madame Plantin. She answered that her mother
had become very weakduring the last few days-
that her life was
only artificially prolonged by
88 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
magnetism-and that, notwithstanding every eG'ort,
she should die next morning early, without pain.
When asked what were the parts diseased, she
gave, as will be afterwards seen, acorrect descrip-
tion of them. M. Chapelain magnetized Madame
Plantin several times, with great energy, during
the course of the day, and could scarcely succeed
in setting her asleep. When he returned next
morning about seven o'clock, the patient had just
expired.
The two Doctors were
very naturally anxious to
verify the declarations of the Somnambulist rela-
tive to the internal state of the body, and obtained
the consent of the family to examine it. M. Mo-
reau," secretary to the surgical section of the Aca-
demy, and Dr Dronsart, were
requested to attend
as witnesses, and it was resolved that the exami-
nation should take place next day in their presence.
It was conducted by M. Cloquet and his assistant,
M. Pailloux. Dr Chapelain was also present. The
latter set Madame Lagandré asleep, a short time
before the hour fixed upon for the operation. The
medical gentlemen then requested to know, from
her own mouth, what she had previously said she
had seen in the interior of the body of Madame
Plantin; when the Somnambulist repeated, in a
firm tone of voice, and without hesitation, what
she had formerly announced to MM. Cloquet and
.mxM.u. Macmvrxsu. 89
Chapelain. The latter then conducted her to the
room adjoining that in which the operation was to
be performed, and of which the door was exactly
shut. Madame Lagandré was still in a state of
somnambulism, and, in spite of the barriers which
separated, her ,from these gentlemen, she followed
the bistoury in the hands of the operator, and said
to the persons around her: "Why do they make
the incision in the middle of the breast, seeing that
the efusion is in the right side ?" _
The indications given by the somnambulist were
found to be quite correct. The procés-verbal of
the examination was drawn up by Dr Dronsart,
attested and signed by all the persons present, and
inserted at length in the work of M. Chardel.
In the German "Annals of Medicine" (JaJ|r-
lnicher der Medicinj, the celebrated philosopher
Schelling, relates the following case, which oc-
curred under his own observation. p
"
In a crisis of clairvoyance, Miss M. having pre-
viously been quite cheerful, began, all at once, to
assume an
appearance' of anxiety and sorrow, and,
at last, fell a-weeping. When I asked her what
was the matter, she answered, that she had just
then become aware that a death had recently taken
place in the family, at the distance of more than
one hundred and fifty leagues. I endeavoured to
vol.. 11. H
90 ANIMAL Mncnmxsm.
dissuade her from entertaining such thoughts, but
in vain; she insisted that she was quite certain' of
the fact,_and continued to weep. Wishing to as-
certain how she had come by this intelligence, she
said she herself did not well know, but that she
had at once become quite certain of it. I asked
her whether she could name the person who had
died: She said she could not at that time, but
should be able to do so in a future crisis. She add-
ed, that the letter containing the intelligence was
then upon its way. She conjured me to say no-
thing about this presentiment after the crisis, other-
wise it would 'give her mortal anxiety.
"
It is well known," says the Professor, "
that
somnambulists, when they awake out of the mag-
netic sleep, have not the slightest recollection of
what may have taken place in it. When she a-
woke out of her sleep, Miss M. was as cheerful as
ever, and had not the most distant idea of her vi-
sion. The expres ion of pain he exhibited du-
ring the crisis, which seemed to proceed so entire-
ly from an internal conviction of the reality of
the fact, and the obstinacy with which she ad-
hered to her assertion of its truth, induced me to
give her credit. I mentioned the case to Professor
Schmidt, in order that he might be a witness to
the fact. I awaited with great anxiety the hour
when I could again set my somnambulist asleep, in
Asxmu. maeszrisu. 9|
order to ascertain whether she would again have
the same vision. For a considerable period during
the crisis, nothing of the kind appeared. She was
as usual quite cheerful, and spoke a
great deal, un-
til, all at once, marks of sorrow were exhibited in
her countenance. She turned away her face, and
hid it on her arm, which she had placed on the arm
of her- chair, and wept in silence. At length, I
asked her what ailed her. '
The same as
yester-
day,' she answered; '
a death has taken place in
our
family--I know it for certain! She thought
it fortunate for her that she knew nothing of this
when awake, because it would occasion her so much
grieff I again asked her whether she did not also
know the individual who was dead; and she rel
peated that she would be able to tell me in a fu-
ture crisis, provided I put the question to her. In
the following crisis, as soon as she was set asleep,
she again began to weep. She requested me to
use
every means of diverting her attention from
this circumstance during her sleep, and I endea-
voured to do so
by introducing other subjects of
conversation; yet she frequently reverted to it.
Had I foreseen the circumstances which subse-
quently made it impossible for me to place her
more frequently in a state of crisis, I should, upon
the last occasion, instead of diverting her thoughts
from the subject in question, rather have endea-
92 ANIMAL Macruvrism.
voured to ascertain whether she could give any far-
ther particulars of the event. But I neglected the
opportunity, and reserved my questions for future
crises, which could no longer take place. Four or
live days after the last sitting, upon entering her
apartment, I found Miss M. much downcast, with
appearances on her countenance indicating that
she had been weeping. On inquiring into the rea-
son of this, she pointed to a letter which lay upon
the table, and said it contained intelligence of the
death of a near relative and particular friend. I
asked her whether she had received any previou
accounts of the indisposition of this individual. She
answered, '
No-none at all; the intelligence came
upon me quite unexpectedly? Nor was she at all
aware of any presentiment she had of the event."
Dr Amdt, an eminent German physician, re-
lates, that being one
day seated near the bed of
one of his somnambulists, on a sudden she became
agitated, uttered sighs, and, as if tormented by
some vision, exclaimed,
"
O heavens! my father!
he is dying l" A few moments afterwards, she
awoke, seemed quite cheerful, and recollected no-
thing of the anxiety she had so
recently manifest-
ed. She again relapsed twice into the same state
of magnetic sleep, and each time she was torment-
ed by the same vision. Being asked what had hap-
pened to her father, he answered, "
He is bathed
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 93
in blood-he is dying." _
Soon afterwards she
awoke, became composed, and the scene finished.
Some weeks afterwards, Dr Arndt found this lady
pensive and sorrowfulf She had just received
from her father, who was at a distance of some
hundred miles-an account of a serious accident
which had befallen him. In ascending the stair of
his cellar, the door had fallen upon his breastea
considerable hemorrhage ensued, and the physi-
cians despaired of his life. Dr Arndt, who had
marked the precise time of the preceding scene
of the somnambulism of this lady, found that it
was
exactly on the day and at the hour when the
accident happened to her father. "
This," ob-
serves the Doctor, "
could not have been the mere
effect of chance; and, assuredly, there was no con-
cert nor deceit on the part of the observer."
The next case I shall adduce is still more re-
markable than any of the preceding.
Mademoiselle W., whose disease and its treat-
ment have been minutely reported by Dr Klein,
her physician, appears to have been one of the most
extraordinary natural somnambulists and clairvoy-
antes upon record. The following facts concerning
her, which Dr Klein has slightly alluded to from
motives of delicacy towards the family, are related
in the third volume of the Bibliothegue du Magrue.
94 ANIMAL Masusrxsm.
tisme Animal, by an
eye-witness who is worthy of
all credit.
'
After Mademoiselle W. had arrived at the house
of M. St --, a
respectable and opulent man,
whose family is one of the most distinguished in
the country, this gentleman, who had previously
heard of the accidental somnambulism of this young
lady, looked upon her as a
very extraordinary per-
son, and requested her to give him, as she had al-
ready done on several former occasions, some
proofs
of the accuracy and extent of her magnetic telescope,
and to direct it towards his son, an olficer in the
army, at that time serving in Russia. From that
moment, Mademoiselle W. directed her thoughts
to this young man, and in all her paroxysms, al-
though she had never seen him, she drew his por-
trait exactly as if she had him before her eyes.
She said that he was
constantly present to her
mind-she accompanied him in all his military
movements, and observed that, naturally brave, he
exposed himself too inconsiderately to danger. She
frequently asked the sister of this youug ofiicer,
whether she did not see him in a corner of the
room; and, one day, upon receiving anegative an-
swer, she said, "
Well, then l ask him any questions
you please, and I shall return his answers." The
sister, having consented, asked all sorts of questions
3
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 95
relative to family matters, which were unknown to
the somnambulist, who answered them all in a
manner so
precise and so accurate, that the inter-
rogator afterwards declared that she felt herself
seized with a cold perspiration, and was several
times on the point of fainting with fright, during
what she called the dialogue of the Spirits.
In another scene, the somnambulist declared to
the father, that he saw his son at the hospital, with
a
piece of white linen wrapt round his chin-that
he was wounded in the face-that he was unable
to eat, but, at the same time, that he was in no
danger. Some days later, she said that he was now
able to eat, and that he was much better.
The family soon ceased to pay much attention to
these visions, probably putting little faith in them,
when, some weeks afterwards, a courier arrived
from the army. M. St. immediately went to Count
Th. to inquire what news he had received. The
latter, at once, set his mind completely at ease, by
informing him that his son's name was not in the
list of the wounded, Src. Transported with joy,
he returned home, and said to Mademoiselle W.,
who was, at that time, in her somnambulic sleep,
that, for once, she had not divined accurately, and
that, fortunately for his son and himself; she had
been completely deceived. At these words-di
vined, deceived-the young lady felt much offended,
96 ANIMAL MAGNs'r1sM.
and, in an
angry and energetic tone, assured the
father that she was
quite certain of the truth of
what she had said-that, at the very moment, she
saw his son at the hospital with his chin wrapt in
white linen, and that, in the state in which she
then was, it was
quite impossible she could be de-
ceived. Soon afterwards, there came a note from
Count Th.; which, after some
expressions of polite-
ness and condolence, contained the following in-
telligence. That a second list of the wounded had
arrived, in which was the name of his son, who
had been struck by a musket-ball on the chin, and
was under medical treatment in the hospital, &c.
According to my information, the veracity of
the persons, upon whose authority the preceding
narrative has been given, lies under no
suspicion.
With one other case It shall close this evidence
with regard to the extraordinary phenomena of the
magnetic somnambulism. It is a case which ex-
cited a great deal of sensation in Germany some
years ago, and which is considered as one of the
most remarkable and best authenticated of any that
has occurred in the annals of Magnetism. _
It is now well known that two patients, in the
highest degree of somnambulism, predicted the
death of an illustrious personage-the late King of
Wirtemberg. The prediction of the first somnam-
lbulist, in which the year and the month were an-
~
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. _
97
nounced, took place four years before the event.
The circumstance was, for obvious reasons, kept
secret amongst a few friends, and, from the length
of time that elapsed, had been nearly forgotten,
when it was
unexpectedly confirmed by a second
somnambulist, who announced not only the year
and month, but the precise day. From the period
of the second prediction, the report became more
widely circulated, and those in
they knowledge of
the circumstance were naturally exceedingly an-
xious to watch the result. Bets to a considerable
amount were even offered upon the fulfilment of
the prediction.
The first prediction was made by the same som-
nambulist, Mademoiselle W., of whose extraordi-
nary clairvoyance some account has been given in
the preceding case. It took place in the year 1812,
in presence of Dr Klein, and several other respec-
table persons, and was to the following effect :-
"
His Majesty will die, in an unusual manner, be-
tween tbe 18th and 20th of April l8l6." When
questioned, in some of her subsequent crises, re-
specting the accuracy of this announcement, she
said that she was
quite certain as to the year, but
might be mistaken as to the particular month. At
a
subsequent period, she iixed upon the month of
October, without specifying any particular day.
vol.. n. 1
98 ANIMAL uscmvrrsu.
M. St., in whose house, probably, these scenes took
place, had, from former experience, such confidence
in the clairvoyanee of this somnambulist, that he
was induced to offer a
large bet upon the event.
The _second prediction was made by a somnam-
bulist, Kr., a
patient of Dr N., upon the 17th of
April 1816, in presence of Dr Klein, Dr N., and
Professor L ......
t, and was to the following effect.
"
His Majesty will die this year in the month of
October." When asked whether the event would
take place in the beginning, the middle, or the end
of the month, she answered, "The end." "
Can
you determine the precise day ? Will it be the
26th ?" "
No." "
The 28th P" "
On that day be
will be struck with apoplexy."
-
-
The King was
actually struck with apoplexy on
the day predicted, and died in the course of a
day
or two thereafter.
`
'
The Report from which I have extracted the
preceding abridged account 'was drawn up by Pro-
fessor Eschenmayer, and inserted in the first vo-
lume of the German ArchivesqfAnimal Magnetism.
It is attested by the names of nine well known in-
dividuals-medical men, and other persons of re-
spectability; and the Professor declares that, if
necessary, he could adduce two hundred witnesses
to prove the truth of the facts.
For numerous additional instances of the :nag-
ANIMAL MAGNET'§Me 99
netic somnambulism, and _its highly interesting
phenomena, I must refer the rationally inquisitive
reader tp the works of the, Marquis de Puysegur,
to those of M. Tardy de Montravel, to the Bibli-
otheque du Magnetisme Animal, to the German
Archives of Animal Magnetism, edited by the Pro-
fessors Eschenmayer, Kisser, Nasse,-and-.Ness von
Esenbeck-and to all the other publications I have
noticed throughout this work.*' I could not have
'
The celebrated Dr Georget, a member of the Institute, who,
from being an obstinate sceptic, afterwards became convinced of
the reality of the phenomena of Animal Magnetism by nume-
rous experiments, gives the following general result of his ob-
servations : -"
My somnambulists are so totally deprived of the
sense of hearing, that the loudest noise most unexpectedly pro-
duced does not cause in them the slightest alarm. Thus a
pis-
tol-shot, a noisy bell, do not produce the smallest motion, or
prevent them fi-om continuing without interruption a conver-
sation already commenced. But the magnetizer is always heard."
Georget also tells us, that' his own conviction, as well as that of
many other eminent physicians, was acquired from a number of
experiments, guarded by the most rigorous precautions.
Dr Rostan, another distinguished physician, aiiirms that he
has witnessed all that Dr Georget has published. He, too, was
originally a sceptic, and during ten years spoke and wrote of
Animal Magnetism asa system of jugglery and imposture, and
of the magnetizers as a set of rogues and dupes. But he also
became convinced by the unambiguous results of a number
of cautious experiments.-See Diclionnairs de Medicine, Art.
Magnefisms Animal.
M. Dupotet informs us, that, at his famous experiment; per.
formed a few years ago, at the Hotel Dieu, more than fifty per.
sons were present, chiedy physicians and students of medicine.
M. Dupotet published an account of these experiments, which
100 nuusr. sucmrrzsm.
gone more at large into the evidence in favour of
these extraordinary facts at present, without great
inconvenience. The cases on record would them-
selves fill many volumes.
passed through three editions; and although this account has
been sevenl years in possession of the public, no objection has
ever been made to any of its details. Yet these experiments
confirm all the more remarkable phenomena of Animal. Mag-
netism.
'
'-
'-
( 101
"
CHAPTER Xxvn.
IN the two preceding chapters, I adduced seve-
ral instances-instantake osten-sivae, according to' Ba-
con-of the manifestation of some of the more re-
markable phenomena which have been found to
occur in the magnetic somnambulism--the exer-
cise of the faculties without the use of their appro-
priate organs, corporeal insensibility, the e:ialta»
tion of the intellectual powers,_intuition, prevision,
prophecy, &c.* These, it will be perceived, are
'
All of these phenomena are fully admitted by an anonymous
author, to whom I formerly referred, who, so fir as I can see,
does not appear to be a practical msgnetizer, but who seems to
have an intimate knowledge of the subject, treats it with much
philosophical acumen, and loudly condemns the abuses and ex-
travagances of the practice.
"
In so namhulism, the sensitive
power, no longer attached to the usual organs, but appropriated
by the soul itself; now operates certainly in a wonderlixl mm.
ner, according to other than the ordinary laws, has a clear view
of objects through a series of untransparent bodies, and perceives
things at a distancewhich no ordinary human power could pe-
netrate. The somnambulist sometimes knows what is occurring
at very distant places; nay, he not uniiequently possesses also
the faculty of producing so powertiil anefect upon distant per-
sons, who are an rapport with him, that his image presents itself
102 _ `-_:.__:iNlMAL MAGNETISM.
exactly'siinilar in kind to those which occur in the
Qtlpral crisis; which latter originates spontaneous-
~l'y, probably in consequence of some constitutional
idiosyncrasy; whereas, in the former, that peculiar
state of the organism and the intellect is produced
by artificial means.
U
n
Individuals have been known to manifest some
symptoms of `this"constitutional affection in their
conduct and 'behaviourduring the' whole course of
their lives. Joan of Arc, the Maid of Orleans, is
supposed to have been in a state of habitual crisis.
Swedenborg appears to have been a natural clair-
voyant, as is pretty evident from several passages
of his life. Jacob Bechmen seems to have been in
s somewhat similar state. It is not unfrequeutly
engendered by religious enthusiasm, exaltation,
my ticism, and an excessive devotion. Indeed, a
to their involuntary imagination. But not only is the sphere
of their sensitive power so remarkably extended ; their mental
powers also frequently acquire an extraordinary augmentation.
and to them it becomes mere child's play to solve questions,
which they never could have answered when awake. ............
But their power of operstingat a distance is not merely
confined to the unusual penetration of a
large space.-it even
extends to the future. They not only know what is occurring
at the -moment in places from which they are often many miles
distant; but they also know and predict what will happen to
others or to themselves," &c.-Bee Das Versohleicrtollild su Sain,
formerly referred to, p. 75, 76. The author also admits the
other remarkable phenomena-intuition, the instinct of reme-
dies, &c.
'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 103
certain degree of this affection is probably more
common than is generally imagined, and its mani-
festations may frequently be ascribed to eccentri-
city of character, or to partial or slight insanity.
The celebrated German poet Goethe tells us, in
the first volume of his autobiography, that his
grandfather possessed the gift of prophecy, espe-
cially in regard to matters relating to himself and
his destiny, of which he gives ome
examples; and
he mentions it as something still more remarkable,
that persons, who had never
upon any other occa-
sion discovered any traces of this power, in the
presence of his grandfather (en rapport with him)
acquired that faculty for the moment, and had a
presentiment of events which were, at the same
time, occurring at a distance.
`
Inhave now brought under the view of my readers
a
variety of instances, both of the natural and of
the magnetic somnambulism, for the purpose of
demonstrating the reality of the more remarkable
phenomena which are manifested in these extraor-_
dinary states of the organism. I request it may be
considered, however, that all I have laid before
them is but an inconsiderahle fragment of the real
evidence in the case, although suiiicient, I should
think, to give perfect credibility to the facts. To
have adduced every case
upon record-to have
treated the subject in its fullest details, by dwelling
l04~ Munn. MAGN 1-:'r|sM.
minutely upon the phenomena presented in each
individual instance, would have spun out this work
to a size which I never
contemplated, and rendered
it more tedious than instructive. Besides, a few
well-authenticated cases are as
good as a thousand
to those capable of weighing evidence. It has been
my object, in short, to present my readers with a
general view of this interesting subject; and I trust
I have done enough, if not to secure their complete
conviction, at least to awaken their interest and
their curiosity, to dispel their prejudices, and in-
duce them to pause, and inquire, and reflect, be-
fore they proceed to form any unfavourable con-
clusion.* Let them not permit the extraordinary
'
I regret that I am unable to give any better and more par-
ticular account of the following recent and very remarkable
case, than what 1 have derived from s newspaper paragraph,
evidently written by a person equally ignorant and incredulous.
(See the Landon Weekly Dispatch, 15th March l835.)
"
The Belgian journals contain the account of a case ofsom-
nambulism or catalepsy, of a nature seextraordinary as to merit
the attention of physiologists, and, if the assertions of those me-
dical men who have seen her be true, must shake the scepticism
of the most incredulous. The patient is Sophia Laroche. a
peasant girl of Virieu, in the French department ofthe Isere,
aged fourteen ; and the most ridiculously romantic circumstances
respecting her are o&-:red to the gullibility of the public.
Amongst others, DrEymard has 'published an aecoimt of his
visit to her during the last mouth. This is not a place for en-
tering into details suflice it to say, that the girl in question,
in a oompIetadulcqf|omnamb|di|m,i1nitl»her'eyctba4daged, erin
told darkness, canned, and ioliaguioltysccnt, vaio: cnd_tow:I
_
ANIMAL uacurrxsm. 105
character of the facts to confound their judgment,
or tempt them to reject them at once, without due
investigation, and an attentive consideration of the
evidence by which they are
supported. Let them
remember, that if many of those higher phenome-
na, to which I lately presumed to direct their atf
tention, be extraordinaryand apparently unaccount-
poraons naoror ata distance; thatwhihl Iabouringunder tha Moen,
whiohIamseocralhoun,and|omdimudays,|hemakuthemod¢|-
truoniinary revelations, discovers hiddm andloat ob_7%d|,jlnd| hr
woyabout thetoum, understands Greek, Latin, penetrates people?
thoughts, and answers questions upon subjects which, during her na-
Nralstato, :he iswhollyignorantej Har body, during some of
tla¢|ep¢rioda,appearstobc¢ndowal|oithapcv|diaflighh|¢||alJ
elasticity, so that she maylae Ima! up as though she only weighed a
fswouncegoraaiflhemereapproaohofthe handasrvedtorender
her buoyant. These, together with many other marvels, are re-
counted by hundreds of persons who have attentively watched
her. It appears, however, that 'the accesses of catalepsy are
gradually diminishing as she grows older, and that there is every
prospect of their becoming totally extinct as her body gains
strength. In the mean time, Sophie Inroche isthe wonder and
admiration of the whole department of the Isere, and has fur-
nished fresh arguments for the speculations of the disciples of
Animal Magnetism."
The above is all I know of the case in question. It will he
seen that the phenomena described are precisely the mme as
those which have been found to occur in other instances, except-
ing the circumstance stated of the lightness, elasticity and buoy-
ancy of the body, of which, however, I believe other examples
may be found. If the fact were once demonstrated, it 'might
serve, perhaps, toexplain some ofthe extraordinary powers at-
trlbuted to witches, such as dying in the air, &c. The subject,
therefore, deserves attention. .
,
The following case, mentioned by Dr Abercrombie, uppers
-106 ANIMAL Maeunrxsm.
able in themselves, the remarkable organic state
out of which they arise, or in which they are
manifested, is no less so. Somnamhulism, as a
fact, like that of the fall of meteoric stones, has
been known and observed for ages, and many cu-
rious instances of its occurrence have been wit-
nessed and recorded. Until lately, however, the
nature of that peculiar affection appears to have
been little, understood, and its most remarkable
characteristic features seem to have long escaped
the attention of physicians and philosophers, al-
though of immense interest to physiological science.
It was
generally considered as a diseased, or, at
least, as an anomalous state of the system, from
which no
important general inferences could he
deduced; and it is only of late-since the intro-
duction of the magnetic practice, and the conse-
quent discovery of the possibility of its artificial
production, for which last we are
principally in-
debted to the careful and meritorious experimental
investigations of the enlightened Marquis de Puy-
segnr-that its peculiar character and conditions
to have some
analogy to the present.
"
At times, the patient,"
nys he, "
after lying for a considerable time quiet, would, in an
instant, throw her whole body into a kind of convulsive spring,
by which she was thrown entirely out of bed; and in the same
manner, while .sitting or lying on the floor, she would throw
herself into bed, or leap on the top of awardrobe iive feet high."
-Anncaoxnxn On the Brain, Bd edit. p. 407. . _
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. l0'1
have been more
correctly ascertained, and its va-
rious and interesting phenomena more
accurately
observed and more
justly appreciated. It isa state,
as
my readers must now be aware, totally different
from that of ordinary life-a state in which the
animal sensibility undergoes an essential change-
a state' in which the ordinary activity of the corpo-
real faculties is suspended for la time, and the in-
ternal instinct-the immaterial principle-perhaps
the soul itself-displays its unfettered energies, in-
dependently of the material organs ;*-a. state of
existence which has been almost prophetically, al-
though unintentionally, described, in the following
' "
The phenomena of Animal Magnetism are facts, which
can no more be doubted, than can the reality of those meteoric
stones which occasionally fall from the heavens. If there be
any bridge, any connexion, between this and the other world,
any transition from the temporary life of the soul to the eternal
life of the spirit, these phenomena must be capable of giving us
some
insight into the subject. They deserve, therefore, in des-
pite of all danger of deception, our most serious attention; as
it would be equally foolish, in the face of such amply attested
experience, to deliver ourselves over to an
all-denying scepti-
cism, as to resign ourselves to a blind faith, in the case of every
alleged phenomenon.
"
Somnambulism afords us at least, in its already admitted
facts, the incontestible proof that higher powers reside in 111811,
which stretch beyond the narrow sphere of the rude -sensual
existence, and transcend the horizon of the human understand-
ing entangled in its abstractions."-C. J. Exsxxnonn (Privy
Councillor to the Grand Duke of Baden, &.c.), Irene, kc. Carls-
ruhe, loan. Pp. 22s.22s.
108 ANIMAL Mscunrlsm.
beautiful lines of one of the most philosophical of
our living poets ;--a state,
"
In which the burthen of the mystery
In which the heavy and the weary weight
Of all this unintelligible world
Is 1ighten'd: that serene and blessed state
In which the afections gently lead us on,-
Until, the breath of this ooqnorealframs,
And even the motion qfaur human blood
Almost suspended, wx Au mlm Ansar
hr nonr, um nlwolz A uvnm sour. :
Whilswithansysmadaquictbylhepolnr
0fM"W'!/» #Wi W d¢¢PP°w°" vfiw,
Wx sz! nrro 'ral url or 'rnnrss."'
`
It cannot fail, I think, to be perceived, with
what remarkable, what wonderfully minute accu_
racy, this poetical description tallies with the phe-
nomena which actually occur in the magnetic som-
nambulism. In that state,_we appear to forget all
knowledge of our previous existence-
'
"
the burthen of the mystery,
the heavy and the weary weight
Of all this unintelligihle world
Is lightened ;"
the ordinary functions of the animal organization
are
suspended-
"
...... ..... . we are laid asleep
In body ;"
the mind 'becomes divested of the ordinary cares
'
Woanswonnx ; Lines on thaB¢mlu ofthe Wye; in
my humb1e_ opinion one of the finest pieces of blank verse in
the English language.
nzxmsr. maesmisu. 109
and anxieties of the world, and is unusually com-
posed, serene and cheerful; while the intellectual
faculties, free and unfettered, are exercised with
an
extraordinary degree of vigour and acuteness.
"
We become s
living soul."
At the same time, the eye of the mind, the inter-
nal power of vision, is wonderfully strengthened
and enlarged, and seems uncoufined within the
narrow limits of space and time;-we do not see
objects in a
merely superficial manner-we
pene-
trate beyond external nature-
"
We see into the l§f¢ of things."
'
It must be quite evident, that the phenomena
of such a state of existence as that described can#
,' Dr Jung-Stilling, in his Theory of Pncumahlogy, discrimi-
nates and contrasts the natural and the magnetic states in the
following manner: .
"
The human soul is present in every part of its body: it is
conscious of itself in every part, according as the organs of the
body give occasion; it sees with the eyes, hem with the ears,
smells with the nose, tastes with the tongue and palate, and
feels withthe whole akin, or the whole superficies of the body.
All this it has in common with the animal soul; but there is
something more superadded, which gives it a rank ii: different
and more elevated than the brutes; it is an
intelligent being,"
&c.._" The human soul is directed, in the natural state, by the
nerves, wherever feeling, consciousnes, and motion are neces-
sary. It appears to have the principal seat in the brain; but,
by magnetislng, it is more or less detached from the brain and
nerves, and consequently becomes, more or less, a the agent;
ll0 ANIMAL mscnrrxsss.
not be explained by the laws and conditions of or-
dinary life-the physiolo@cal principles which are
applicable in the one case, are
totally inapplicable
for, as the clear-seeing somnambulist does not see with the eyes,
but out of the region ot' the pit of the heart, and as this is al-
ways the case, without exception, it is clear from hence, that
the human soul of itself can not only see without the aid of
the body, but also so much clearer than in its fleshly prison,
nor does it stand in need of our material light; for magnetic
sleepers rad what is laid on the pit of the heart, and the con-
tents of closed letters. Nay, they can read at a distance, when
the book or writing is separated fiom them by dense and opaque
bodies, as soon ss that which is to be read is held by a person
with whom the somnsmbulist stands in psychical contact or con-
nexion."--" The human soul, in this state, not only sees but
also feels every thing more acutely than in its natural waking
state, without requiring for this purpose any one of the bodily
senses; but it is very remarkable, that it is not susceptible of
,the smallest thing belonging to the visible world, except when
brought into a psychical contact, connexion, or rapport," &c.;
"
the somnambulist can then, particularly when he is in s very
exalted and clear-sighted state, perceive every thing that the
person thinks, suffers, feels, and enjoys, who stands in connexion
with him."
"
The magnetic facts and experiments above stated prove, to
s demonstration, the existence of this spiritual, luminous body;
they iiirther prove, that this human soul has need of its gross
and animal body, solely with reference to its earthly life, in
which man must necessarily stand in reciprocal operation with
the sensible or material world; but' that it is able without it
to think and feel, and to act upon others, both near and at a
distance, in s much more_ perfect manner, and is also more sus-
osptlbleof sufering and enjoyment. This conclusion must un-
questionably arise in the mind of the impartial observer, when
hs snemblss all the various exhibitions which magnetism pro-
duces, and then calmly and rationally reflects upon them."
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. ll l
in the other.*' Yet every sy tem of human phy-
siology which declines to investigate these facts
upon their own
appropriate principles, must neces-
sarily be imperfect. Indeed, an impartial and at~
tentive study of the phenomena of somnambulism
cannot fail to lead us to conclu ions highly inte-
resting to the philosophy of man. A good deal
has been lately done for this psychological branch
of physiology upon the Continent: in this country
it is still little more than a blank-a sheet of
white paper; and even the study of it is most
unaccountably discouraged. The sun of Animal
Magnetism, as an
enlightened foreigner remarks,
has not yet arisen in the British dominions. May
his animating beams speedily dispel the darkness
that envelopes those recondite but most important
truths, to which our
eyes have hitherto been blind,
or which, at present, we
only see dimly reflected
by a remote mirror l T
'
'
M; Deleuze has very justly observed, that the antagonists
of Animal Magnetism wish to explain a
peculiar class of pheno-
mena by the same theory they employ to explain phenomena
of a
totally different class. By pursuing such a method they
never can succeed.
-1- It is a rather remarkable but an
indisputable fact, that, in
modern times, and especially in this country, the term Science
has become totally perverted 'from its original and genuine
nification, and that it is now limited almost exclusively to Phy-
sica All our Royal and Philosophical Academies and Societies
are entirely occupied with objects of mathematical and physical
research: Mental and moral philosophy are utterly neglectedf
II2 ANIMAL Maouarlsm.
I formerly mentioned, that, whatever diferences
of opinion may exist in regard to theory, the reality
Were it proposed to read before any of the Societies alluded to
a
paper on Animal Magnetism, the proposition would probably
be almost universally scouted, and the proposer laughed to scom
as an ignommus or a
visionary, although upon the Continent
the most eminently learned bodies have not hesitated to encou-
nge the investigation of the subject, without any loss of cha-
racter, nr
feeling of degradation. With us, the apophthegm of
th e poet,-
"
Homo sum, nihil humani a me alianum puto,"
is quite out of iilshion -our philosophers no longer admit that
- "
The proper study of mankind is man"--
sll research is directed towards external nature-and mind is
considered altogether subordinate to matter. In an article in
the Edinburgh Review, formerly noticed.,
"
the follies of Animal
llagnelina" are actually placed in marked contrast with the prin-
ciples of science-meaning Physics, I presume; and no term of
contempt is sufliciently strong to designate the absurdity of all
investigations into the phenomena of mind.
Now, there is no man more willing than myself to acknow-
ledge the immense advantages which society has derived from
the application of the principles and discoveries of physical
science to the arts of life--to the physical wants of the spe-
cies; but I cannot, I never will, admit that Physics_consti-
lute the whole of science, or that they are best calculated to
promote the great ends of our
being. I cannot consent to
abandon mental physiology and philosophy-to relinquish the
study of the spiritual and moral nature of man-to sacrifice
mind to matter and mechanism. Nor can I allow that such
pursuits are subordinate to those ofthe mathematician, the che-
mist, the astronomer, the botanist, or the geologist. I am
quite
aware that the study of Animal Magnetism is not calculated to
assist us in discovering the longitude at sea, to enable us to
apply and to regulate the action of steam, or to be of service
to us in the building of bridges, or the construction of rail-
ANIMAL uscunrism. 1 I8
of the phenomena of Animal Magnetism is now uni-
versally admitted by all impartial, competent, and
intelligent inquirers upon the Continent. There,
indeed, there can
hardly be said to be two opinions
upon the subject amongst those enlightened men
who have bestowed any attention upon it. Even
those professional gentlemen who, from some
vague
notion of imaginary dangers, have manifested a
spirit of hostility to the practiceeas in the case of
Dr Stieglitz and others-not only do not dispute,
but, on the contrary, fully admit the facts. Indeed,
it would be strange were they to attempt to deny the
existence of things which they have almost a. daily
opportunity of witnessing. I have no doubt that
the same will be the case in this country, as soon
roads. But if it be true that this doctrine involves the disco-
very of new therapeutic principles ;-if it has developed agen-
cies and susceptlbilities in the human constitution hitherto un-
known or
disregarded;--if it has already opened up many new
and interesting views of the physical and moral nature of man,
their coanexlon and reciprocal action upon each other;_if it
has glven us a clearer insight into the motions of the immate-
rlal principle which mimates and actuates the material orga-
nism ; _if it has already done all this, I say, and if it promises
still farther to enlarge our knowledge, and to render us
"
wiser,
happier, and better," by what just right shall it be arbitrarily
excluded from the circle ofthe sciences ?
See some excellent observations-on the study of physical and
moral science, in Dr Hampden's second Lecture on the study
of Moral Philosophy, recently published.
VOL. II. K
114- ANIMAL Macnzrisnr.
as the' subject becomes better known and apprel
eiated-as soon as our professional gentlemen and
men of science shall have recovered from the sur-
priseoecasioned by the apparent novelty and the
extraordinary character of the phenomena-as soon
as
they shall be induced to abandon their prepos-
sessions, to examine the matter with philosophical
impartiality, to look the phenomena boldly and ho-
nestly in the face, and submit to be taught the se-
crete of nature by patient investigation, careful
experiment, and accurate observation.
( U5 )
CHAPTER XXVIII.
WHEN we have once obtained possession of a
new and important series of facts, and become per-
fectly assured of their reality, it is an
unquestion-
ably useful task to endeavour to ascertain in what
degree they may be considered as
extending or
modifying our
previously acquired knowledge, by
tracing the results to which they directly and legi-
timately eonduct us. This proceeding, indeed, is
absolutely necessary, in order to arrange and sys-
tematize our scientiiic acquirements.
Although hostile, as
may have been observed, to
all vague and premature theories upon scientific
subjects-which more frequently tend to retard
than to advance our progress in knowledge-»and
still more to all monopolising and exclusive sys-
tems of science; I would by no means be under-
stood to dissuade the philosophical inquirer from
attempting that cautious method of induction and
generalization introduced and recommended by
Lord Bacon, and since prosecuted with such re-
I 16 ANIMAL Mztessnsm.
markable success in several of the departments of
Natural Philosophy ;-that method which consists
in collecting kindred facts, comparing them with
each other, remarking their analogies, discriminat-
ing their differences, and grouping them together,
with a view to discover the common nexus that ex-
ists between them, the principle upon which they
jointly depend, or, at least, the general law or laws
under which they may be all comprehended. On
the contrary, I consider it exceedingly useful and
praiseworthy to endeavour to extend and systema-
tize our knowledge in this way; for, as Burke long
since observed, "
hy looking into physical?-he
might have added moral-" causes, our minds are
opened and enlarged; and in this pursuit, whether
we take or whether we lose the game, the chase is
certainly of service." This method _I consider
equally applicable to moral as to physical science ;'
notindeed to that metaphysical philosophy which
delights in airy and empty visions, and spurns the
support of facts; but to those well-regulated intel~
lectual speculations which are founded upon an
accurate observation of the actual phenomenaof
nature. I am also of opinion, that the time has
now' arrived, when we
may safely, and perhaps
successfully, apply this method to the phenomena
of Animal Magnetism-since the industry of the
pioneers of that doctrine has already supplied us
ANIMAL msczurrxsm. 117
with an abundant store of well-attested facts; and
I shall now take the liberty of pointing out to my
readers the way in which, as it appears to me, the
merely philosophical part of the investigation might
be conducted with the best prospect of success.
I formerly alluded to a
theory by which most of
the ordinary phenomena of Animal Magnetism
might be, in some measure, accounted for, upon
the supposition of a certain transference of vital
power from ,one subject to another, through the
medium of the nervous system! This theory,
however, besides being founded upon an
hypothe-
sis which, however probable, may be considered as
not yet satisfactorily demonstrated, appears quite
incapable of explaining the higher magnetic phe-
nomena. Indeed, it seems
utterly impossible. to
any satisfactory reason
why sleep and som-
nambulism' should be, as
they certainly are, pro-
duced by the processes employed. We only know
'
It would constitute one of the most remarkable incidents
in the whole history of' science, should it be ultimately demon-
strated snd admitted, that an universal ethereal fluid pervades
all nature, producing, in its different modifications, and in its
various combinations with matter, the phenomena of Light,
Heat, Motion, Magnetism, Electricity, &c. To this point,
however, although there is yet no suliicient demonstration of
the tact, recent physical investigation seems rapidly tending;
and it may ultimately realize one of the boldest and apparently
most fanciiiil hypothesis ol' s certain class of philosophers, who
have been perhaps too rsshly condemned as mere visionaries'
and mylties.-See Appendix, No. III.
'
1 18 ANIMAL Macmvrlsu.
that, in many instances, the one has been found to
follow the other, without the presence of any other
perceptible cause; and this circumstance, however
unaccountable it may be, is suiiicient to justifyus
here, as in othersciences, in assuming that there
must be some connexion between them ; and this
assumption, provided we are assured ofthe facts,
cannot he invalidated by any argument whatever
founded upon the alleged insutiicieney of the
cause to produce the eii`ects.* As 'in this case,
however, we are
incapable of discovering and point-
ing out the precise operative principle, it only »re-
mains for us to classify the phenomena, by ascer-
taining the particulars in which they agree, and
the analogy that exists between them and 'other
constitutional aifections, in order to enable us -to
comprehend the nature of these afections, and,-if
possible, the cause
upon which these phenomena
necessarily depend.
'
We have already seen that, independently of
their sanative efiicacy, the usual eH'ects of the mag-
'
I do not conceive that we are entitled to consider that, in
these cases, the effects must be dependent solely upon the ma-
nipulations employed, or to reject, without adequate investiga-
tion, those other elements which are held by the Animal Mag-
netists to he operative in the magnetic proceaes. For example,
it is maintained that the will has a powerful iniiuenee in deter-
mining the magnetic phenomena. This is an alleged that which
is _capable of being demonstrated by experience; and my own is
entirely coincident with theresulu noticed by þÿ0§ll ¬l'ls ,
ANIMAL rucusrxsm. 119
netic processes are the production of sleep and
somnambulism, the latter state being obviously a
more
profound degree of the former. The pheno-
mena
invariablyobserved in somnambulism, when
the crisis is perfect, are-insensibility of the cor-
poreal organs, exaltation of the intellectual facul-
ties, a transference of the sensitive powers to other
than the usual parts of the nervous
system, intui-
tion, prevision, prediction, and the total oblivion,
when restored to the natural state, of all that oc-
curred during the continuance of the affection.
Let us, then, endeavour to trace the analogy bet
tween these phenomena and those of another state,
which is much more familiar to ns.
The philosophy of Sl88P;Ill`ld tnmmg, which ig'
calculated to throw considerable light upon this
branch of inquiry, has, at
various times, engaged
a
good deal of attention, and been the fruitful
source of much ingenious speculation ; but I think
it may be doubted whether any generally satisfac.
tory theory has been hitherto propounded upon
this subject, to guide us in our
attempts to account
ibr the phenomena upon intelligible and correct
principles! One reason, and indeed the principal
' "
Aristotle, vhohsthwrltten ssingulartnet on sleep, hath
not, methlnks, thoroughly defined it; nor yet Galen, though he
seems to have correctedit; for those noctsmbuloes and night-
walkers, though in their sleep. do yet enjoy the action of their
senses; we must, therefore, ssjthst there ll_Nm¢tlllls in us
120 ANIMAL Mscurrrlsm.
one, for this failure, appears to me to be, that phi-
losophers have not
su$ciently generalized their
views, but have founded their speculations upon
far too limited an induction of facts, and then at-
tempted to explain these facts upon the principles
of some
preconceived hypothesis. Some part of
their errors, too, may 'probably be ascribed to that
material tendency which, as I formerly observed,
has long been conspicuous in all our
philosophical
that is not in the jurisdiction of Morpheus; and that those ab-
stracted and ecstatic souls do walk about in their own bodies, as
spirlts with the bodies they assume, wherein they seem to hear,
see, and feel, though indeed the organs are destitute of sense, and
their natures of thoseliiculties that should inform them. Thus, it
is observed, that men sometimesupon the hour oftheir departure,
do speak and reason above themselves. For then the sonlbeing
near freed from the ligaments of the body, begins to reason
like herself, and to discourse in a strain above mortality."-Sir
Tnorus Blows, Religio Aledioi.
The latest English work I have seen upon this subject is the
second edition of the "
Philosophy of Sleep," by Mr Macnish,
a most ingenious and entertaining volume, in the perusal of
which it is impossible not to admire the industrious research
and talent of the author. But I cannot agree with this learned
gentleman in his attempt to account for the phenomena upon
phrenobgieal principles. Phrenology itself; after long attention
to the speculations of its votaries, _I never could view in any
other light than as a mere hypothesis, founded upon postulates
andassumptions, built up with iimciful observations, and ter-
minating at length in a patitio It always appeared to
me to be entirely destitute of the support of any positive and
unambiguous Ects, and to owe its temporary reception to the
introduction of a new and imposing nomenclature, and to the
ingenious of its advocates Every attempt to apply
ANIMAL MAGNETISML, 121'
systems. In the following few observations, I
shall endeavour to avoid both of these errors, by
adapting my explanations as
strictly as
possible to
the character of the phenomena.
Sleep appears to_be the natural state of repose of
the corporeal organism. I say, of the cmporeal of-
ganism, because it cannot be conceived that the
soul itself-the immaterial principle-ever sleeps,
otherwise, it were not sleep, but death. In dream-
ing, we occasionally perceive the soul-the imma-
terial and inorganic principle-struggling, as it
were, to manifest its independent activity without
the co-operation of the bodily organs. It is pro-
bable, if not certain, that all sleep is accompanied
with dreaming, that is, with the exercise of spiri-
tual energy; but in the ease of the soundest sleep,
these dreams-the manifestations of this spiritual
activity-are not remembered; there has been no
co-operation of the corporeal organs, and, therefore,
no
adequate impression has been made upon the
material part of our constitution; in like manner,
this science to the explanation of phenomena seems to consist
merely of a translation of one language into another, leaving
the enquirer just as wise as he was before. I am
surprised that
an individual so acute as Mr Macnish should not have perceived
that, in resorting to Phrenology for elucidating the phenome-
na of Sleep and Dreams, he was only giving an example ofthe
obaow-urs per obsouriur.
VOL. IL L
122 ANIMAL macrurrxsm.
as we have seen that the operations performed, and
the conversations held, in the state of perfect som-
nambulism, when the sensibility of the corporeal
organs is altogether suspended, are
entirely forgot-
ten when the individual awakes, and is restored to
his natural state. In sleep, the corporeal organs
are merely more or less profoundly dormant, but
still sensible to extemal impressions, when suili-
ciently strong to affect them; in somnambulism,
on the other hand, they are in general entirely de-
prived of their sensibility for a time; as has been
seen in the case of the Breslau rope-maker, in that
of Madame Plantin, and, indeed, in almost every
case both of the natural and of the magnetic som-
nambulism. 'It appears to be only when the natu-
ral sleep is unsound, or disturbed, that the dreams
are remembered, and that they recur to the recol-
lection with more or less distinctness, in proportion
to the degree in which the material organs have
been affected. The sound sleeper declares that he
never dreams; that is to say,'he has no recollection
of having dreamt, his sleep having been so
pro-
found. On the other hand, the unsound sleeper
continually dreams, and he has also a distinct re-
eollectiouof his nocturnal reveries when awake.
This circumstance proves that the corporeal organs
have only been in a state of partial or
imperfect
repose.
~'
annul. numurrisal. |28
Upon this subject of the constant and
restlessness of the soul, during the temporary re-
pose of the corporeal sensibility, I find the follow-
ing coincident observations in the works of that
eminent divine, Bishop Hall. "
I do not more
wonder," says that distinguished prelate,
"
at any
man's art, than at his who professes to think of
nothing; and I do not a little marvel at that man
who says he can
sleep without a dream; for the
mind of man is a restless thing; and though it
give the body leave to repose itself; as knowing it
is a mortal and earthly piece, yet itself beinga
spirit, and therefore active and indefatigable, il
_ever in motion. Give me a sea that moves not, a
sun that shines not, an open eye that sea not, and
I shall yield there may be a reasonablelsoul that
works not. It is possible that through a natural
or accidental stupidity, a man
may not perceive
his own thoughts (as sometimes the eye or ear may
be _distracted not to discern his ownsobjects) ; but,
in the mean time, he thinks thatwhereof he cannot
give an account; like as we
many times dream,
when we cannot report our fancy. Since my mind,"
adds the Bishop,
"
will needs be ever working, it
shall be my care that it may always be well. em-
ployed."
Upon the same principles, wo, we
may
the frequently fantastic, absurd, and incoherent
124, ANIMAL usuumism.
'nature of our dreams. The union and harmony
between the soul and the body, although not ac-
tually dissolved, is partially interrupted by sleep;
the latter is no
longer capable of co-operating ef-
fectually with the former. Hence, in imperfect
sleep, when the
sensibility is enfeebled but not an-
nihilated, the soul is still encumbered by the partial
wakefulness of the body, and, at the same time, and
for the same reason, it is incapable of freely exerting
itsown independent energies. Ou the other hand,
when the sleep is profound, when the corporeal
sensibility is completely dormant, the energies of
the soul are set at liberty and freely exercised,
without any co-operation or control 'of the body,
but of this exercise there can be no recollection in
the waking state, because, as
formerly observed,
no
adequate impression has been made upon any
material organ.
'
Moreover, the magnetic sleep diH`ers from the
natural in this, that, in the former, the organic re-
pose is generally more sound, the corporeal organs
are in a state of greater inactivity. So far as I am
aware, there is no instance of dreaming during the
magnetic sleep; that is to say, there is no distinct
recollection of any thoughts that may have oc-
curred to the mind during its continuance. All
that a
patient, when awakened out of this state,
can remember of having experienced, is a mere
ANIMAL ld;GNETISM. 125
vague feeling of certain pleasurable sensations. It
appears, therefore, to constitute the transition-state
from one mode of existence to another; and this,
transition is completed in somnambulism, by the
total uspension or
temporary annihilation of the
corporeal sensibility-in a far greater degree than
that which takes place in the ordinary sleep-the
undisturbed activity of the soul, and consequently-
the manifestation of a life purely spiritual and in-
organic!
'
a
In following out this investigation and compari-
son of the phenomena of the natural and the mag-
netic sleep, and of sleep and somnamhulism, I have
little doubt that we should be enabled to trace, al-
'
The subject of sleep and dreams, omeas, sympathetic fore-
bodings, second sight, &c. are intimately connected with the
doctrines of Animal Magnetism; but my limits will not permit
me to enter fixlly into it at present. There are various well-
authenticated phenomena which prove the reality of these oc-
currences, and justify the assertion of the poet, that
"
Dreams full oft are found of real events
"
The forms and shadows."
The same may be said of omens, presentiments, &,c. It is dif-
ficult to reject the whole ofthe evidence upon this subject, and
absolutely to deny that, upon some occasions, and in certain
circumstances,
"
Coming events cast their shadows before."
Animal Magnetism affords us the means of giving a natural ex-
planation of these phenomena; and the whole subject deserves
to he philosophically investigated, with a view to dispel super-
stition on the one hand, and scepticism on the other.
126 ANIMAL MkGNETISM.
though in a more faint degree, in the former, as in
the latter; the distinction between the material or-
ganism and" the vital or spiritual principle which
animates it ;` and thus succeed, at length, in with-
drawing a portion, at least, of that veil, hitherto
deemed impenetrable, which hasso long enveloped
some of themost important secrets of nature, andf
cdncealed from our view the noblest and most in-
teresting element in the constitution of man.
(127)
CHAPTER XXIX.
Arran the whole materials for this work had
been collected and arranged, my attention was di-
rected to a series of physiological lectures deliver-
ed in the University of Paris by M. Alndral, in some
of which the author discusses the subject of Ani»
mal Magnetism. Theparticular lectures to which
I allude are the'l8th, wh, and wth ofthe series,
and -they were translated 'and published in the
Lancet for 1882-88, vol. iii. pp. 769, Szc. The
opinions of a
professional gentleman of such 'emi-
nence as M. Andral upon such a
subject as this,
when given with caudour and sincerity after due
investigation, would of themselves be very valu-
able; but'I consider them as still more
important
when indicating the great change which has lately
taken place in the sentiments of those medical men
who had previously viewed the phenomena with
deep suspicion and inveterate scepticism.
In his 18th lecture, M. Andral admits that the
state of ecstasy, or somnambulism, may either he
spontaneous, or it may be producedin one individual,
128 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
in consequence qfan
influence exercised on him by an-
other. "
In entering," he says,
"
on the conside-
ration of this much-debated and, I must say, deep-
ly-interesting topic, I have to recommend you to
follow my example, in determining to separate
facts from the e.1,planationof facts, in endeavouring
to ascertain, in the first place, what it is that is
proved, and then seeking to unravel whatever
mysteries that presents; and in remembering that
a
thing may not be the less true, because it is not
included in the category of circumstances which
the state of human science, or the extent of the li-
mits of the human intellect, enables us to compre-
hend, and compels us to recognize."
"
Many facts," he states, "are on recordywhich
permitno one to entertain the least doubt as to the
possibility of the spontaneous occurrence of this
state" (ecstasy); and he relies exclusively upon
the one instance which occurred at the Clinic of
Bologna, published in the Gazette Medicale of
Paris, of the 24th of November 1882 ;*
"
as it con-
tains all the elements of authenticity. and has been
observed by medical men of high skill and reputa-
tion." _
~
M. Andral then asks, "
Can the state thus de-
scribed be produced in one individual by any influ-
'
This ease will be tbund, along with a variety of others, in
the Appendix, No. II.
'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 129
ence. exercised by mother ?"' This question the
author also answers in the ailirmative, relying sole-
ly upon the following evidence. "
In the inaugu-
ral thesis of M. Fillazzi (Fillassier), defended be-
fore our
Faculty of Medicine, there is the narrative
of an occurrence bearing irresistible proofs of its
authenticity, and whichseems to me suflicient to
decide the question. The facts are
particularly
curious. The author, then an interns at the Hotel
Dieu, and totally sceptical regarding the powers
ascribed to this mysterious essence, this asserted
magnetic fluid, formed, for amusement, the plan,
with a brother interns equally iucredulous, of sub-
mitting this friend to the mancsuvres of the mag-
netizers, in the manner M. Rostan describes. The
passes were continued for about twenty minutes
without any remarkable effect, but at the expira-
tion of that time, the young man began to yawn,
his eyelids grew heavy, and closed involuntarily;
he attempted to shake of the torpor in vain; his
respiration next became accelerated, his head fell
on his shoulders, and he uttered a sardonic laugh
of indescribable expression.
'
We thought,' says
the narrator,
'
that he was amusing himself at our
expense; but in a little, what was my horror when
I saw his lingers turn blue, his head fall powerless
forward, when I heard his respiration rattling like
a
dying man's, and felt his skin as cold as death
130 ANIMAL Msem-:'r|sm.
itself l
'
I cannot find words to describe my suffer-
ings. I knew not what to do. Meanwhile, all
these horrid phenomena increased in intensity. I
tremble at the recollection of what I saw ;-there
lay my friend, my victim, devoid of the aspect of
life, in a state of complete and terrible collapse.
With his hand- clasped in mine, in a state of agony
no-tongue could tell of,-I laid him- on a hed, and
waited the result-in a state-of mind Ivcan never
forget. In a quarter of an hour he recovered, and,
exclaiming that in the ecstasy he had experienced
sensations of extreme delight, begged me to re-
commence the passes. I did so with less appre-
hension, and again the somnolency proceeded. The
collapse, however, was less profound and terrific,
and in some minutes he suddenly awoke with the_
exclamation: '
What happiness is this I'
"
_
Upon the strength of these two solitary instances,
M..Andral decides in favour of the spontaneous
development of this ecstatic state, and of the possi-
bility of its production by the influence exercised
by one individual on another. "
As to their au-
thenticity," he remarks, "
it is beyond dispute.
The statements are entitled to as much credence'
as any thing can be which we have not ourselves
seen." M. Andral then alludes to the theory of
lmlching, and imagination, which he just-
ly considers inadequate to explain the phenomena..
ANIMAL MAGNETl8M» 18|
The last case, be confesses, is "
an
embarrassing
one, at any rate, for the imagination hypothesis-
hoth the operator and the patient being medical
men, both sceptics, and both persuaded that no-
thing peculiar could happen."
-
»
"
So far, then, as we'have gone," continues M;
Andral, "
we find that the operation;of known
causes and influences is by no means adequate to
explain the phenomena which-are proved to have
been induced in persons thus treated. We must,
consequently, either not attempt this skind of ex-
planation, or else we must admit the existence of
aforce, a
power, which has been called magnetic.
The name is qfno consequence whatever."
After alluding to the earlier history of the magi-
netic practices, M. Andral proceeds:
"
Again,
however, I must press upon you, gentlemen, that
there are numerous facts which prove that this
subject deserves .your serious attention. So strong
are they, that many men of high information and
discernment have not hesitated to profess their
faith in the existence of the asserted principle- At
Berlin, they have even established a magnets? clinic,
for the purpose of investigating the matter experi-
mentally, and applying it successfully to thetreat-
ment of disease. Now, is all this delusion ?"
After arguing the matter for some time proand
con, M. Andral seems to think that the truth may
182 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
probably lie between the two extremes of plenary
belief and absolute scepticism. But although M.
Andral occasionally speaks of evidence, he is ma-
nifestly ignorant of almost the whole of the proofs
by which the magnetic doctrines have been incon-
trovertibly established, and generally supports his
belief of a
particular fact upon one solitary in-
stance, when additional and easy research might
have supplied him with hundreds.
Some of his general observations upon the sub-
ject, however, are
exceedingly just and apposite.
"
We are
apt," says he, "
for example, to start
with the idea that a thing is impossible. This is
wrong, it is irrational, it is unwise; it leads us to re-
jectproofic of these facts, because these proofs do not
agree with our own
previous notions. We must not
be so
proud of ourown powers as to fancy that ana-
logy, that induction, are
omnipotent in the discri-
mination of truth, neither must we measure possi-
bility by the standard of our own restricted no-
tions. How many are the things which we now
readily admit, and which but fifty years since were
denied ? How many things do we see
daily done
which we but lately deemed impracticable ?" The
-learned lecturer then cautions his pupils, on the
other hand, against an excess of credulity.
'°
Too
great :_ facility in belief is as
great an evil as too
rigid a
tendency to distrust. We must therefore
Amman 1uAG1u:'r|sM. 183
subject the asserted facts to a
rigorous scrutiny,"
&c. But in proceeding to such a
scrutiny, it is
absolutely necessary that we have all, or, at least,
a
great part of the evidence before us, in order to
enable us to arrive at a
satisfactory conclusion;
whereas M. Andral, with the utmost honesty of in-
tention, no doubt, seems to be possessed of only
one or two recent instances of certain magnetic
phenomena, and these by no means the most im-
portant. Upon such a scanty and very partial view
of the evidence, however, it is manifestly unjust
to found any general conclusion. It is somewhat
singular that M. Andral should not even once al-
lude to the excellent work of his countryman M.
Deleuze. Of 'the other numerous French and Ger-
man writings upon this subject, by medical authors
and others, he seems to be totally ignorant.
'In considering the phenomena of Animal Mag-
netism, M. Andral admits, in the magnetic som-
nambulism, lst, The fact of "
the abolition of all
sensibility by the ordinary organs of perception ;"
and, 2dly,
"
The obliteration from the memory of
all circumstances occurring during the ecstasy ;"
while he considers the asserted connexion between
the magnetizer and the magnetised as not proved.
The admission of M. Andral, however, are of great
importance, as evincing his conviction of the in-
fluence of the treatment.
l84» Amman. macunrrsu.
In his 14th Lecture, M. Andral proceeds with
his strictures ou the alleged 'phenomena of Animal
Magnetism. He admits that one person is capable
of producing certain symptoms upon another "
by
peculiar touches, passes, or manual manuauvres ;"
but he "
sees no fact sulliciently decisive and au-
thenticated, to establish the intermediate agency;"
that is to say, the effects alleged to be produced
through the intervention of other persons and
things. Here, I am sorry to observe, M. Andral
discovers a
very imperfect knowledge of the nature
of _the magnetic processes, which do not consist al-
togetherof "peculiarIouches, paases,ormanual ma-
namvres." The advocates of that practice ascribe
much eilicacy to the will and intention of the ope-
rator, and of this M. Andral says nothing. Here,
too, as elsewhere, the lecturer betrays great igno-
rance of the facts, as well as of the overpowering
evidence by which their existence has been demon-
strated; but the reality of the facts can
only he es-
tablished or refuted by a due consideration of the
_whole evidence, thoroughly sifted and weighed.
In treating of the alleged' cure of various dis-
eases by means of magnetism, M. Andral alludes
to some -curious facts. "
Now, all this I think
very probable. A vast number of diseases, -espe-
cially those strictly nervous, disappear completely,
when the mind is powerfully excited." In mag-
ANIMAL uacru-vrism. 135
netism, however, as at present practised (whatever
may have been the case in the days of Mesmer and
his immediate followers), there is absolutely no-
thing that can be supposed capable of producing
any such powerful mental excitement at all; and
it is a
great mistake misuppm that the treatment
is peculiarly or exclusively adapted to nervous. dis-
eases. The best and most experienced practical
magnetizers, indeed,_hold¢ an
opinion precisely the
reverse of this. M. Andral proceeds:
"
Intermit-
tent fevei' even has thus been cured; and it is no
less whimsical than true, that, at one time, the re-
petition of the uncouth and unmeaning.word-
abracadabra--accompanied with _
various gestures
and imposing parade, was deemed a
sovereign cure,
andlbelieveitwas so, foragreat mnnber of ner'-
vous disorders. Nay, it is certain, even that not a
_hw diseases cf the circulation, and qf the organs-qf
secretion and' mdritubn, were thus-
cured, or at any rate materially modzjied." *
Now, the sceptical opponents of Animal Magne-
tism have always appeared anxious to bring for-
ward cases of cures defected in the manner de-
scribed above, as if these aforded any solid grounds
'
Thehleamed T. Bartholinus said,
"
Why shall I condemn
the cures efected by gestures, characters, words, and other ns-
tursl~ actions, without the sid of superstition, although our feeble
reason comprehends not how these cures are produced, for they
ared¢momtratedbge.fperienoe.'
' ' '
186 Annum. incur-:'nsM.
for invalidating the doctrine they opposed. But
because diseases may have been cured by one mode
of treatment, that circumstance, of itself, can af-
ford no argument against the possibility of their
being also cured by another mode of treatment;
in either case, we must just be content to fall back
-upon the evidence. Besides, it is by no means clear,
that the two methods are not analogous to each
other, and may not depend upon the same
prin-
ciple. The advocates of the doctrine in question,
indeed, have neither any desire nor
any interest to
deny the authenticity of such facts, when brought
forward by their opponents; on the contrary, they
rely upon these very iacts as evidence in favour of
the opinions they maintain. M. Andral fully ad-
mits that cures have been effected in the manner
he describes; but is he quite certain that the cures
to which he alludes were not produced in conse-
quence of some more or less perfect modification
of the magnetic treatment?
M. Andral continues: "
But what seems special
-to this state"-that of the magnetic ecstasy or
somnambulism-" is, that the magnetised person
.isasserted to be capable of maintaining a certain
kind of connexion with the external world, while
otherwise completely insensible. Thus, he has
'been known to hear and answer connectedly va-
rious questions and observations proposed to him
Ammu. Maeumlsm. 187
by one individual, while he remains insensible to
the loudest noises, the most exciting remarks of
all the other persons about him. It is dillicult not
to admit that this has happened in several cases.
I have not seen -the fact myself, but I have, in the
course of reading, met with several instances of it
so well authenticated, that`I shouldnot be justified
in refusing to believe it." This admission does not
seem
very consistent with the author's previous de-
nial or disbelief of the alleged connexion, or rap~
port, between the operator and the patient. After
noticing some other remarkable features of the
ecstatic crisis-such as the occasional exaltation
of the sensibility, hallucinations, an extraordinary
development of intelligence, increased muscular
energy, &c.; M. Andral proceeds to consider the
instinct of remedies, with which the magnetic som-
nambulists and others are said to be endowed.
Upon this subject, M. Andral is unusually decided
and peremptory, but, unfortunately, his opinion is
directly in the teeth of the evidence. "
Now,"
says he,
"
in the whole of the statements on this
point, I must confess that I can again see
nothing
but the acme of imposition, juggling, and quack-
ery."
This, I am aware, is a
point upon which medical
gentlemen, who have not sumciently studied the
VOL. II.
_
M
IS8 ANIMAL Macnnnsm.
subject, are
peculiarly sensitive; yet here I do not
hesitate to avow, that, although not a member of
the profession, I am directly at issue with M. An-
alral; and as this is a fact which, like all others,
must be ultimately decided by proof, I would re-
fer this gentleman, and the public who are to
judge between us, to the evidence adduced in this
work.*. Does~M. Andral really mean to include
the Doctors Hoffmann, Wienholt, Hufeland, OL
bers, Brandis, Nasse, Sprengel, Cabanis, Georget,
Virey, with a
large proportion of the most eminent
physicians in Paris, among his impostors, jugglers,
and quacks ? For my own
part, I do not hesitate
to declare, that, explain it as we' may, I am ac-
quainted with no fact in physics which has been
more satisfactorily demonstrated than the one he
thus questions.-}
~
f
'
Whatever may be said for or
against it., the instinct qf re-
made: is no longer mere matter of opinion, but s ihct which
rests upon the most ample and incontrovertible evidence. It
is manifested more
tiequently in somnambulism, than in other
states of the organism; and even Cabanis, with all his philoso~
phical scepticism, bears his testimony, as an eye-witness, to the
fact, that some patients have been known to point out, with
wonderful sagacity, the remedies most appropriate to their re-
spective complaints.
1- "
In general, almost all somnambulists possess,du1-ing their
crltical sleep,-the Iiculty of recognizing their own complaints,
and those of others, of determining their nature, their duration,
and their accidents; of declaring whether they are our-able or
not; of predicting of what nature the crises shall be, the nian-
ANIMAL MAGNETISH. 189
At the conclusion of the l4»th, and commencew
ment of the 15th Lecture, M. Andral expresses his
doubts with regard to the reality of other alleged
phenomena of the magnetic somnambulism, espe-
cially that of vision, without the assistance of the
eyes. Upon this point I need say nothing here,
having already placed the evidence upon it sofnlly
before the public, as to enable every intelligent
individual to judge for himseltl*
I regret to find, that, in his 15th Lecture, M.
Andral has, I trust. unintentionally, entirely mis-
represented the interesting experiments made by
Dr Petetin of Lyons. I-Ie alludes to only one case,
of which, however, he admits that "
the narrative
in itself bears all the characters of good faith im
the narrator, and truth in the details." But he.-
afterwards remarks, that "
Petetin's testimony is
corroborated only by the evidence of the husband,
sister, and sister-in-law, of the cataleptic female..
No strangers were
present, the observations were
not repeated with sudicient frequency, and, above*
ner in which they will take place, the precise moment of their
appearance; of pointing out how they may be best promoted.
seconded, sustained; finally, of prescribing all the means pro-
per to be employed in order to effectuate acure."-Memoirs nn'
ls Fluide Vim, ac. in the Bébziam. du Magnstinrne Animal, :_
See also the opinions of Brandls and others, formerly quoted,'
and the numerous instances I have adduced. y
_
'
See Appendix No. Il., and almost every case ol' somnam-;
l40 ANIMAL useumism.
all, by different individuals." Now, in the paper
referred to in the last Note, the reader will find'
that Petetin's experiments were made upon seve-
ral patients, and that they were witnessed and re-
peated by all the professional and learned gentle-
men in Lyons and the neighbourhood, who were
perfectly satisfied of the reality and correctness of
the results. Moreover, it will be seen that these
results were confirmed, in all essential points, ina
number of subsequent experiments.
M. Andral afterwards refers to some othereases,
to which, as it appears to me, he makes some rather
quibbling and evasive objections. These I shall
pass over, as I consider the fact in question, via.
the transference of _
the facultieséto have been sa-
tisfactorily demonstrated by the most ample and
unimpeachable evidence! I must, however, take
'
This, indeed (the transference of the Bsculties), is a pheno-
menon which is now considered by all who have investigated
the subject as having been placed lar beyond the reach of scep-
ticism. Professor Biunde of Treves, in all other respects an
opponent of Animal Magnetism, speaks of the phenomenon in
question ln the following terms :
"
If we pay particular attention only to those narratives
which may be considered most authentic, thus much only can
with probability be deduced h°om_ them, that, in the state of
magnetic the senses (theinfirlor spiritual nature in man),
in the exacise of their functions, are not neeesnrlly bound
down to the mediation of those organs, which are
necessary to
them in the walrlng and normal state. Such s transference of
sensation to other parts of the nervous system must always ap-
Amman MAGNETIBM. 141
some notice ofthe two last cases referred to_by M.
Andral, as even he, with all his scepticism upon
this point, appears to attach considerable importance
to them, and `they have not yet been laid before
my readers. They are not at all necessary to my
demonstration, but perhaps they may make a si-
milar impression upon other sceptics as
they appear
to have done upon the ingenious lecturer.
"
The sixth ease," says M. Andral, "is the most
serious of all. It is described by M. Rostan-a
high authority-in his Systeme Medabale. M. Fe-
russ was present at the experiment. A watch was
held behind the individual's head. 'I see,' said he,
'
something that shines I' '
What is it ?'-' A
pear very remarkable and extraordinary ; but the extraordinary
and remarkable may be perceived in many other phenomena.
Thus, magnetized persons have read perfectly well folded letter!
placed on the pit of the stomach. In this, however, there is
nothing wonderful. For the soul of man is a power which, ln
the normal state ofhealth, can onlyexercise its iilnctions through
the medium of the sensitive organs, but manifestly only because
it stands in as determined relations to the body as to its organs.
Should this relation be changed in an abnormal state, which we
must conceive to be possible; then, seeing, hearing, smelling,
tasting, dw. as
energies of the soul, may be manifested ln other
ways and by other means, in a manner with which we can never
become sufficiently acquainted, because, in such states, the in~
dividual is incapable of reflecting upon them, and mere external
experience cannot lead us suiliciently into the depth of the
matter."- F. X. Biunde, Vmuch einer syetasnat. Behaadl. der
fmpafwll. Psychalogic, 1. b. p. 430.
The author is a complete sceptlc in regard to all the other
extraordinary magnetic phenomena p
142 nzmu. macimrxsm.
watch! s
He was asked the hour, and replied ex-
actly. Two different watches were tried. He was
equally precise. The -watches were taken 'out of
the room, 'and the hands altered. He still told the
hours and minutesexpressed on the dials. _ _
(Marks
gf attention.) Gentlemen, this is a remarkable
fact. I wish I had seen it. (A laugh.) Had I
seen it, I certainly would have believed it; but as
it is, the experiment demands repetition."
-
_ __
'
..
"
The last case I shall mention is recorded by-
M. Fillazzi, in the thesis I quoted in the first of
thc' lectures- on this subject. The subject of the
experiment was a
female. She told the hour on a
watch held to the back of her bead. Nay, more,
the watch having been taken into a dark apartf
ment, and the bands altered, she again described
the time theyrindicated, with exact precision, and
this experiment was repeated innumerable times,
the operator himself not knowing the changes of
the hands until the answer was given. (Sw7m1¢e.)_
Gentlemen, with respect to this narrative, I am far
from considering it very decisive. I want to know
who. took the watch from one
apartment to the
other. (Some murmurs among the auditors.) Gen-
tlemen, this precision is very necessary. Remem-
ber, we are investigating a
very serious subject,
respecting which nothing must be admitted, if it
be susceptible of rational doubt."_
_ _
_
_
_
ANIMAL Masurrxsm. 143
The above is all that I deem of importance in the
lectures of M. Andral. The author, I understand,
enjoys great, and, I have no doubt, deserved repu-
tation in his profession ; and I believe him to be a
perfectly honest and honourable man. But, as I
formerly observed, it is manifest that he is not ac-
quainted with the greater 'part of the evidence on
the subject he has undertaken to investigate, and
that he cannot entirely divest himself of his pro-
fessional prejudices. Indeed,~ a continual conflict
appears to be going on in his mind, between those
prejudices and the impression made upon him by
the weight of even that small part of the evidence
which he knows. A little more profound, more
extensive, and more
impartial enquiry would pro-
bably produce entire conviction of the truth. In
the mean time, his admissions, forced, as it were,
from him, are
very valuable; and it is extremely
gratifying to find, that even the adversaries of the
system are new beginning to pay much more se-
rious attention to a very interesting class of facts,
and that the old and absurd theory of attouchement,
imagination, and ifmlation, once deemed so satisfac-
tory, is now abandoned by almost every intelligent
opponent of the magneticdoctrine.
With regard to the theory of the magnetic or vital
_/luid,* and ia transmissibility, I fully admit that
'
A most intelligent medical correspondent, who is disposed
14-4 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the onus probandi lies, if any where, upon the mag-
netizers; and I am well aware of the difliculty of
that proof But our opponents mu t not require
of us
impossibilities. Where, I would ask, is the
exact demonstration to be found of the actual exist-
ence of the ordinary magnetic, electric, and gal-
vanic lluids? Have they not been in a
great mea~
sure assumed from the necessity of explaining cer-
tain series of physical phenomena ? In my humble
opinion, the professors of Animal Magnetism have,
at least, rendered it extremely probable that such
a fluid does exist, that it may be communicated
under the direction of the will, and that it is ca-
pable of producing very extraordinary phenomena;
although it would be in vain to expect a
complete
demonstration of this fact, at least until physiolo-
gists shall have more
profoundly investigated the
economy of the living animal frame, and the ope-
rations of the vital functions. In the mean time,
we cannot do better than proceed with the collec-
tion and classification of authentic facts, for of
these our adversaries cannot deprive us:
Ifactum
infectumjieri nequit.
It will probably be long, indeed, before the me-
dical profession generally, especially in this coun-
tosdmit the existence ofsuchstluid, ingeniouslysuggeststlut,
hrthe||keofdlstinctioll,ltmlghtbedenomlnatedthe0b0¢N~
aorvhc fluid. This suggestion deserves consideration.
ANIMAL macumisu. 145
try, are brought to acknowledge even the facts of
Animal Magnetism, however irresistible the evi-
dence by which they are
supported. Their pride
is compromised, the esprit du coqzs is tremblingly
alive, and it is quite natural that they should en-
deavour to maintain a
long and obstinate struggle
against the humiliation of admitting the truth of
doctrines which, hitherto, they have persecuted,
ridiculed, or
neglected. Some of these learned
gentlemen, I 'am told, have magnanimou ly de-
clared that they will neither investigate nor even
listen to the subject. It is to the philosophical
public, therefore, that the appeal must now be
made; they are more
likely to be impartial, and
they are equally capable of pronouncing a satisfac-
tory verdict in a matter depending upon evidence.
The gentlemenofthe profession will unquestionably
he forced to give way, as
soon as
they are made to
perceive the ludicrous nature of their position, in
continuing to close their eyes to generally acknow-
lodged truths, and attempting to oppose their wil-
ful ignorance to the lights which every where sur-
round them.
"
There are few things more disgusting to an
enlightened mind, than to see a number of men-
a mob-whether learned or illiterate, who have
never scrutinized the foundation of their opinions,
vox.. 11. N
I
14,6 ANIMAL MAGNETIBM. _
assailing with coutumely an individual who, after
the labour of research and reflection, has adopted
different sentiments from theirs, and pluming them-
selves on the notion of superior
'
knowledge] be-
cause their understandings have been tenacious of
prejudice." But "
the true conquests, the only
ones which do not cost a tear, are those which are
gained over ignorance. The most honourable, as
well as the most useful, occupation of man is-to
contribute to the extension of ideas."1-
Many even of the most sublime and most im-
portant truths have been left to work out their
establishment through many long years of doubt
and discredit; they have been rejected from preju-
dice, or obscured by theory and speculation, until
forced, at length, upon unwilling minds by the ir-
resistible strength of the evidence by which their
reality was ultimately demonstrated.
In his Defense du Magnetisme Animal against the
attacks of M. Virey, M. Deleuze mentions, that he
had received a number of letters from various in-
dividuals, who had been previously hostile to Ani-
mal Magnetism, declaring their conviction of its
reality; and that one of these was from one of the
gentlemen who had subscribed the Report of the
'
BAILEY.
1- Naronzox BuoruP.n'rz.-See Ausozfs Hiatoryqf Eu-
rope during the French Revolution, vol. iii. p. 379.
ANIMAL Masumxsu. 147
Academicians in 1784. The same author also states
that many physicians are as much convinced as him-
self, although they dare not publicly avow their
sentiments; and that several of them, in this state
of matters, have privately recommended experi-
ments to their patients. Surely this is not as it
ought to be. Why should we be ashamed of the
truth ? ~
( 143 )
CHAPTER xxx.
I HAVE now concluded all the practical details
which I originally proposed to submit to the pub-
lic on the subject of Animal Magnetism. I have
endeavoured to unveil the apparently miraculous
features of its peculiar phenomena, and to exhibit
them as
merely the effects of natural agencies. It
has been shewn to be exceedingly probable, that,
if not exactly by name, at least in theory and in
practice, the inliuences it developes were known,
in a greater or less degree, in ancient times, and
among various nations. I have pointed out many
curious and coincident opinions, observations, and
allusions, in the writings of ancient and of modern
authors. I have noticed the analogous practices
of several individuals, previous to the introduction
of the more systematic treatment in recent times.
I have dwelt at some
length upon the modern dis-
covery of Mesmer, and followed its progress and
improvement among his disciples and successors in
the magnetic art. Both the ordinary and the ex-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 1419
traordinary phenomena resulting from the treat-
ment have, I think, been sutliciently brought into
notice; and I have taken the liberty of drawing the
particular attention of my readers to the very re-
markable appearances manifested in
the natural and
in the magnetic somnambulism,totheir analogywith
each other, and to the additional light they seem
capable of throwing on the subject of Sleep and
Dreams, as well as on the manifestations of the
spiritual principle in general. In the course of the
work, I have likewise had occasion to consider and
to obviate nearly all' the objections, so far as I am
aware, which have been urged against the system,
both by ignorant and by learned individuals. _ To
the former, I have ventured to recommend invelg
tigation. I
The hostility of the latter, I trust,`I have
shewn is less in reality than in name. -
It only remains for me, in this concluding chap-
ter, to make a' few additional observations upon
the theoretical views which have been taken of the
subject, and to endeavour to dispel some serious
misapprehensions, by pointing out more
particu-
larly the general tendency of the doctrine.
Limited as is my knowledge of the medical
sciences, it may be thought highly presumptuous
in me to propound any theory upon a
subject so
very obscure as this; yet, considering the extreme
ignorance that prevails with respect to the nature
150 ANIMAL Msouarism.
of the spiritual principle in man, and of the laws
which regulate its manifestations, I may, perhaps,
be permitted shortly to advert to certain hypo-
theses which have been framed by more learned
and more competent persons, with the view of en-
abling us to account 'for some of the more extra-
ordinary phenomena.
Although it has long been customary to ascribe
the operations of sense, as well as of intellect, in
the normal state, to the cerebral organs, yet I be-'
lieve it has never been altogether denied that these
operations may be influenced, in a considerable de-
gree, by the peculiar condition of other parts of
the organism, and especially of the nervous system
in general!
The late profound and interesting researches of
those eminent physiologists, Reil, Autenrieth, and
Humboldt, have gone far, not only to demonstrate
the existence of a nervous circulation, but even to
render probable the external expansion of this cir-
culating fluid-an expansion which is supposed to
take place with such energy, ns to form an atmo-
sphere, or
sphere of activity, similar 'to that of
electrical bodies. Of this theory I have given
'
Even the Phrenologlsts-the greatest sticklers for the om-
nlpotence ot' the cerebral organs--were at length compelled to
modify their hypothesis, by the adoption ofa peculiar theory of
the temperaments, and by the convenient postulate of cam-is
ANIMAL mics mxsm. 151
some account in a
previous part of this work.
Were we, then, to admit the eziistence of this ner-
vous Huid, of its sensible atmosphere, and its ana-
logy in other respects to electricity, it does not
seem to be a
very violent or
unphilosophical hypo-
thesis to presume, that., in certain circumstances,
and under certain conditions, it may be capable of
being directed outwards, by the volition of one in-
dividual, with such energy as to produce a
pecu-
liar effect upon _the organization of another. 4
This
hypothesis, too, appears to be supported by the
fact, that individuals possessing sound health, and
great nervous
energy, operate in general most ef-
fectually in the magnetic treatment; and that weak
and diseased persons are most susceptible of .the
magnetic influence, and manifest the most extra-
ordinary phenomena.
Almost all the practitioners of Animal Magne-
tism, indeed, seem to agree in this, that the mag-
netic treatment operates principally, if not entirely,
upon the nervous
system, and particularly upon
those nerves which are situated in the abdominal
region# Now, in this region, we find the great
'
The principal eifect of the magnetic treatment upon the
brain, appears to consist in the temporary suspension of the
sensibility and activity of its organs. But, in proportion as the
activity of the cerebral organs is depressed, that of the gan-
glionic system is exalted. Is not this analogous to polariza-
tion P
152 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ganglion, or concatenation of sympathetic nerves,
called the plexus solaris, which appears to be the
centre of the ganglionic system-a system of ner-
vous iniiuence opposed, as is now well known, to
that of the brain.* So important in the human
economy has the region of this great ganglion been
considered, that some of the elder philosophers
conceived it to be the seat of the sentient soul. In
'
'I'he ganglionic system does not spring, as was
formerly
believed, from the fifth and sixth cerebral pairs, but only com-
municates with them, as with many others, and with all the
nerves of the spinal cord. It constitutes of itself a separate
and independent whole. A series of ganglions, lying on both
sides of the spinal cord, linked together by means of connect-
ing branches, formed into a circle by the rump below and the
bmin above constitutes the definite boundary of both systems.
Within this boundarythe ganglionic system expands, and commu-
nicates outwards with the brain by means of connecting branches.
The ganglionic system contained within this elliptical boundary
consists of a contexture of apparently irregular plat-us of nerves,
sometimes more loose, and, where the principal vessels lie, more
closely pressed together, and occasionally provided with nervous
knots. In this labyrinthic contexture, one particular group pre-
ponderates in respect to mass, separation, and lnduence, which,
in consequence of its form, has been denominated the plea-ua so.
lm-ia.
The nerves of the cerebral and ganglionic systems diH~`er in
respect to their intemal structure; those of the cerebral system
being more strongly oxidized, whiter, and harder; those of the
ganglionic system softer, more jelly-like, and of a
greyish-yellow
colour. These and other differences in structure and appear.
ance induced Smmmerlng and other physiolcglsts to believe
that the functions of the two systems are essentially different-
the cerebral system being appropriated to the purposes of the
animal life, and that of the ganglions to the vegetative.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 158
diseased states of the organism, this ganglion ap<
pears to stand in very peculiar relations towards
the cerebral system; and it has sometimes been,
perhaps not unreasonably, denominated the cere-
brum abdmninale.
'
i
Now, it is a
singular fact, that, in many cases of
catalepsy and somnambulism, the usual organs of
the senses have been found to be entirely dormant,
and the seat of general sensibility transferred from
the brain to the region of this ganglion, or `cere-J
brum abdominala* Does not this circumstance
suggest some distinction, hitherto not sufficiently
investigated, between the intellect and the
lity-between the cerebral and the ganglionic sys-
tems of nervous
energy ?°|' _
t
There seems little reason to doubt, that this im-
portant ganglion, with its appendages, was desig-
nated by Paracelsus and Van Helmont, in what
'
This fact was
long ago demonstrated by the experiments
of Dr Petetin at Lyons, and has since been abundantly con-
firmed.
1- Although we have good reason to believe that the brain is
the seat or centre of the operations of the intellect, we have
equally good reason to hold that the gauglionic system-the
nerves and plexus of the chest and abdomen--is the primary
seat of the passions and affections of the mind. Love, hate,
jealousy, joy, sorrow, anger, surprise, terror, &c. alter the func-
tions, and even the structure of these last organs. Any effect
produced by these passions and emotions upon thebrain, sp-
pears to be merely secondary or
sympathetic. .
154 ANIMAL mscnmxsm.
they have said respecting the existence and func-
tions of the Archeus, which they considered as a
sort of demon, presiding over the stomach, acting
constantly by means of the vital spirits, performing
the most important offices in the animal economy,
producing all the organic changes which take place
in the corporeal frame, curing diseases, &c. Van
Helmont even held, that, by virtue of the Archeus,
manwas
approximated tothe realm of spirits; mean-
ing, I presume, that, in cases of ecstasy, catalepsy,
and somnambulism, the excited sensibility of the
Archeus (or plexus solaris ?) predominates over the
cerebral energy, supplies its functions with in-
creased activity, and, in the absence of the ordi-
nary organic influence, seems to transport us into
another world. Taking into view the whole of
the facts connected with this subject, the ideas of
Paracelsus and Van Helmont, when divested of
their obscurity and mysticism, may be found not
quite so extravagant and chimerical as has been
hitherto supposed.
i
In consequence of his minute and most ingenious
investigations into the nervous system, Reil con-
ceived himself entitled to assume two poles of ner-
vous sensibility in the human organism-the one,
the pneumatab pole, being situated in the brain-
the other, the somatic pole, in the ganglionic sys-
tem. The late ingenious Dr Spurzheim, without
ANIMAL Macnarisu. 155
any reference to the subject we are now investi-
gating, has made the following judicious remark:
"
Sometimes it would appear as if the vital power
were concentrated in one
system, to the detriment
of all the others. The muscular or athletic con-
stitution is often possessed of very little nervous
sensibility; and, on the other hand, great activity
of the brain seems
frequently to check muscular
development."
*
This observation is quite consist-
ent with the opinions of Reil. If we admit the
relationship, or
perhaps rather the antagonism al-
ready pointed out, between the intellect and the
sensibility, between the cerebral and the nervous
or ganglionic systems, and could we conceive it
possible, either by means of the manipulations,
Src. employed in the magnetic treatment, or
by
any other accidental or undiscoverable means, to
withdraw a considerable portion of the nervous
or vital energy from the cerebral region, and con-
centrate it at the epigastrium in the plexus sohris,1-
or distribute it throughout the ganglionic system;
should we not thus he enabled to account, .in some
degree, for many of the extraordinary phenomena
'
Phrenology in connexion with the Study of Physiognomy,
p. 15.
1' In fact, this is just what appears to take place in the natu-
ral and in the magnetic somnambulism. The cerebral organs
are rendered dormant, and the sensibility seems
frequently to
be transferred to the epigaurium.
156 ANIMAL MAcN1~:'r|sM.
of Animal Magnetism, occasioned, it would appear,
by -the suspensiouof activity in the cerebral or-
gans, and the exalted sensibility of the abdominal
ganglions? And might not the same
phenomena
be manifested in certain diseased or disturbed states
of the organism, such as
catalepsy and somnam-
bulism, in consequence, perhaps, of some unequal
and irregular distribution ofthe nervous
energy,
or vital forces, or of some other causes hitherto
undiscovered. Many physical analogies might be
pointed out in the phenomena of Electro-Mag'ne-
tism, shewing the influence of electric currents
upon the magnetic needle. At Paris, a sensible
variation of the needle is produced hy Aurora: bo-
reales occurring in the northern regions, at a dis-
tance ofthousands of miles. A stroke of lightning
has been known to reverse the poles of the mari-
ner's compass*
'
I am no great lover of thecrles, and feel little interest in
defending them, a task which frequentlygenerates a
greater love
of controversial display than of truth, which last ought always
to be our ultimate end. Yet it is impossible for the reflecting
mind to avoid being struck with the numerous analogies of Ne-
ture, and with the simplicity and uniformity of the means by
which she accomplishes the greater part if not the whole of her
most wonderful effects. But if little inclined to attach much
value to theories, I would give still less weight, in the present
state of physico-psychological science, to the mere authorita-
tive diota of philosophers, especially when I find men of such
eminence as Dr Roget and Sir Charles Bell denying, upon spe-
culative grounds, the possibility of phenomena which have been
ANIMAL Mscmrrxsm. 15?
Other ingenious inquirers have endeavoured to
explain the magnetic phenomena upon similar
principles, indeed, although upon a still more sim-
ple theory than the preceding. The brain they
consider analogous to a
galvanic battery, habitual-
ly charged with a neutral or natural fluid, having
need of isolated fluids, positive and negative, sent
to the animal and organic life by an act of the will,
through the medium of the nerves, as conductors.
Without going farther than the mere
simple state-
ment of this theory, which, I trust, will be sui-
ciently intelligible to .my readers, I shall' proceed
to shew in what 'manner a late intelligent writer
attempts to account for the peculiar phenomena of
the artificial somnambulism upon its principles.
_
Every man, it is said, has the faculty of causing
the magnetic iiuid to radiate from his brain, by the
sole act _of his will. This iiuid is in a neutral or
natural state. Now, suppose this iiuid directed by
the magnetizer toward the brain of another indi-
vidual," the consequence will be this :` If the Huid
of the_ magnetised person is equally natural,`no ef-
fect will be produced, because two 'neutral fluids
do not act upon each other; and this is what ge-
nerally takes place when we
attempt to magnetise
observed' to occur in thousands of instances, and whose actual
existence has been demonstrated by the most ample, the most
unexceptionable, and
irreliugable evidence-facts which are all
but universally notorious.
`
'
158
'
ANIMAL Maenarlsu.
a
person in health. But if the Huids are isolated,
as is usually the case in sick persons, each of these
two fluids will tend to decompose the neutral Huid
of the magnetizer, and to combine with its oppo-
site.
It is a remarkable fact, that the combination of
the fluids of one individual with those of another
has the effect of producing sleep. This combina-
tion causes the brain to pass into a sort of ercthie-
nws, which, gradually increased by the continua-
tion of the magnetic action, determines, in the
brain of the magnetised person, a considerable dis-
engagement of fluid. _
It is this excess of fluid
whose subtilty, traversing the sides of the crani-
um, irradiates the surrounding objects, and occa-
sions the wonderful phenomena of lucidity. In
such circumstances, the brain is enabled to dis-
pense with the instruments of the senses, and the
individual can see without the eyes, and bear with-
out the ears. In the ordinary state, the organs of
the senses are a kind of conductors, which bring
us the impressions of external objects; but in som-
nambulism, the fluid comes into immediate con-
tact with these objects, so that the natural conduc-
tors of sensation become useless.
We have seen that, in somnambulism, the sen-
sibility of the animal life is entirely abolished.
This phenomenon, in our opinion, is susceptible of
ANIMAL mscumusm. 159
a rigorous explanation. We feel nothing, because
the brain, completely absorbed by the activity of
this new order of perceptions, entirely abandoned
to this ecstatic life, no
longer perceives any other
impressions. We may form some idea of this in-
capability of perceiving in the brain, from what
daily takes place, when a
strong sensation annihi-
lates within us a weaker one. It is thus that an
individual, profoundlypre-occupiedwith some
great
idea, or struck with the sight of a
very interesting
object, sees and hears nothing of what is going on
around him. It is thus, too, that in a contest em-
bittered by wrath or vengeance, the two adversaries
scarcely feel the blows which they mutually indict
upon each other.
'
»
I
u
After a magnetic sleep, why does the somnam-
bulist recollect nothing of what passed in this state i'
He remembers nothing, because every thing has
taken place out of his brain, since we have seen
that the fluid goes in search of the objects. We
can conceive that dreams should leave some recol-
lection behind; 'in fact, every thing then takes
place in 'the brain, and although the impression
may have been slight, yet it may be retained until
awaking, and leave some trace in our memory.
Why is the magnetizer not always capable of
acting effectively? Because his will, at the given
moment, may be incapable of directing the Enid;
V160 ANIMAL MAGN mism.
because he is distracted or indisposed, and his fluid
no
longer possesses the requisite conditions; be-
cause he acts
upon a
healthy person, and their neu-
tral Huids are
incapable of acting upon eaéh other;
because he operates upon a sick person, whose
iiuid, at the moment, is in a natural state; finally,
because some third party exerts a
contradictory
action, with or without intention.
`
'
Why ought the magnetised person to have con-
fidence in Magnetism? Because it is necessary
that the brain should he in certain moral condi-
tions, in order to produce certain moral iefl"ects.*
i
I repeat, that I have not presumed to bring for-
ward any of the foregoing hypotheses, with the
hope that any one of _them will he found to afford
a complete and satisfactory theory to account for
the phenomena in question, but merely as hints or
queries addressed to those persons who, with supe-
rior qualiiications for the task, may feel inclined
to prosecute the inquiry. Much, indeed, still re-
mains to be done in the investigation of this dark
and difficult ubject; but a
patient and judicious
perseverancenin the path of experimental research,
and especially a more attentive observation and
classification of the psychical manifestations, as
.
'
See Maaxsrxsnn, con hiatoire, sa theoria, can application au
traitemen! des maladies: Memoirs snooyé 6 l'Academis de Berlin.
Par le Docteur Lsozuan. Paris, 1834.
'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 161
contra-distinguished from the mere acts of the sen-
sitive organism, may ultimately lead to a success-
ful solution of some, at least, of the many diflicul-
ties with which it is now beset. Nay, the fortu-
nate evolution of some single, and perhaps simple,
principle may at length dispel the darkness which
now
envelopes this most interesting physiological
question; and a more enlightened posterity may
even wonder that we should have been impeded,
by apparently insuperable obstacles, in an investi-
gation, in which every thing has to them become
comparatively smooth and easy.*
But whatever speculative notions we may be
pleased to entertain, in the mean time, upon this
abstruse but fascinating subject, I should conceive
that even a
superficial consideration of the facts
brought forward in this work, independently of all
°
Veniet tempus, quo ipsa que nunc latent, dies extrahet, et
longioris aevi dillgentia. Ad inquisitionem tantorum aetas non
una sufllcit. Venlet tempus, quo posterinostrl tam aperta nos
nesclvisse mirabuutur.-Sl-zxxca. ,
It is, perhaps, unfortunate, that Physiology is almost exclu-
sively cultivated by medical men, and for medical purposes,
without any sudiclent attention to its bearings upon the science
of mind. Hence, probably, the material tendency of the views
it presents. Could a physician and philosopher, like Dr Aber-
crombie of Edinburgh, be induced to devote a
portion of his
time and attention to a systematic work upon this interesting
subject, I have no doubt it would be made to assumes very dill
ferent aspect.
VOL. ll. 0
H160 AN1MAL MAGNETISM.
because he is distracted or indisposed, and his iiuid
no longer possesses the requisite conditions; be-
cause he acts upon a
healthy person, and their neu-
tral fluids are incapable of acting upon each other;
because he operates upon a sick person, whose
fluid, at the moment, is in a natural state; finally,
because some third party exerts a
contradictory
action, with or without intention.
'
Why ought the magnetised person to have con-
fidence in Magnetism ? Because it is necessary
that the brain should bein certain moral condi-
tions, in order to produce certain moral effects!
I repeat, that I have not presumed to bring for-
ward any of the foregoing hypotheses, with the
hope that any one of _them will be found to afford
a complete 'and satisfactory theory to account for
the phenomena in question, but merely as hints or
queries addressed to those persons who, with supe-
rior qualiiications for the task, may Feel inclined
to prosecute the inquiry. Much, indeed, still re-
mains to be done in the investigation of this dark
and diHicult subject; but a patient and judicious
perseverance "in the path of experimental research,
and especially a more attentive observation and
classification of the psychical manifestations, as
_
'
See Maexarxsnz, um histoira, an than-ie, son application au
traitement des maladies: Memoirs envoyé a l'Academie da Berlin.
Par le Docteur Lnozuan. Paris, 1834.
'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 161
contra-distinguished from the mere acts of the sen-
sitive organism, may ultimately lead to a success-
ful solution of some, at least, of the many dillicul-
ties with which it is now beset. Nay, the fortu-
nate evolution of some single, and perhaps simple,
principle may at length dispel the darkness which
now
envelopes this most interesting physiological
question; and a more enlightened posterity may
even wonder that we should have been impeded,
by apparently insuperable obstacles, in an investi-
gation, in which every thing has to them become
comparatively smooth and easy.*
_
But whatever speculative notions we
may he
pleased to entertain, in the mean time, upon this
abstruse but fascinating subject, I should conceive
that even a
superficial consideration of the facts
brought forward in this work, independently of all
'
'
Veniet tempus, quo ipsa que nunc latent, dies extrahet, et
longiorls aevi diligentia. Ad inquisitionem tantorum aetas non
una sufliclt. Veniet tempus, quo posteri nostrl mm aperta nos
nescivisse mirabuntur.--Sninca. ,
It is, perhaps, unfortunate, that
Physiology is almost exclu-
sively cultivated by medical men, and for medical purposes,
without any suliicient attention to its bearings upon the science
of mind. Hence, probably, the material tendency of the views
it presents. Could a physician and philowpher, like Dr Aber-
crombie of Edinburgh, be induced to devote a
portion of his
time and attention to a systematic work upon this interesting
subject, I have no doubt it would be made to assume a very dif-
ferent aspect.
VOL. II. 0
l60 ANIMAL MAGNr:'r|sM.
because he is distracted or indisposed, and his Huid
no longer possesses the requisite conditions; be-
cause he acts upon a
healthy person, and their neu-
tral Huids are
incapable of acting upon each other;
because he operates upon a sick person, whose
fluid, at the moment, is in a natural state; finally,
because some third party exerts a
contradictory
action, with or without intention.
'
Why ought the magnetised person to have con-
fidence in Magnetism? Because it is necessary
that the brain should bein certain moral condi-
tions, in order to produce certain moral effects!
I repeat, that I have not presumed to bring for-
ward any of the foregoing hypotheses, with the
hope that any one of _them will be found to afford
a
complete' 'and 'satisfactory theory to account for
the phenomena in question, but merely as hints or
queries addressed to those persons who, with supe-
rior qualifications for the task, may Feel inclined
to prosecute the inquiry. Much, indeed, still re-
mains to he done in the investigation of this dark
and diflicult subject; but a
patient and judicious
perseverance in the path of experimental research,
and especially a more attentive observation and
classification of the psychical manifestations, as
.
'
See Mmsarxsnn, son hiatoiro, sa theorie, .nm application au
traitement des maladies: Memoirs envoyé 6 þÿl'Academ ¬e
de Berlin.
Par le Docteur Lzoiuan. Paris, 1834.
Amman MAGNETISM. 161
contra-distinguished from the mere acts of the sen-
sitive organism, may ultimately lead to a success-
ful solution of some, at least, of the many diilicul-
ties with which it is now beset. Nay, the fortu-
nate evolution of some
single, and perhaps simple,
principle may at length dispel the darkness which
now
envelopes this most interesting physiological
question; and a more enlightened posterity may
even wonder that we should have been impeded,
by apparently insuperable obstacles, in an investi-
gation, in which every thing has to them become
comparatively smooth and easy!
But whatever speculative notions we
may be
pleased to entertain, in the mean time, upon this
abstruse but fascinating subject, I should conceive
that even a
superficial consideration of the facts
brought forward in this work, independently of all
'
'
Veniet tempus, quo ipsa qu; nunc latent, dies extrshet, et
longioris aevi diligentis. Ad inquisitionem tantorum aetas non
una. suiiicit. Veniet tempus, quo posterl nostrl tam aperta nos
nescivisse mlfibuhtuf--SEl¥ECA» A
It is, perhaps, unfortunate, that Physiology is almost exclu-
sively cultivated by medieal men, and for medical purposes,
without any suiiicient attention to its bearings upon the science
of mind. Hence, probably, the material tendency of the views
it presents. Could a physician and philosopher, like Dr Aber-
crombie of Edinburgh, be induced to devote a portion of his
time and attention to a systematic work upon this interesting
subject, I have no doubt it would be made to assumea very dill
ferent aspect.
_
vox.; u. o
162 ANIMAL Masnnrism.
theory, must be sufficient to enable my readers to
perceive that the phenomena of Animal Magnetism
come into direct collision with the opinions and
doctrines of the mere
physiological materialist-
the advocate of the organic origin and nature of
the mind, or
spiritual principle-and expose, in all
their nakedness and deformity, the' scantiness, in-
sufliciency, and utter absurdity of his creed. In-
deed, the very material character of the predomi-
nant systems of philosophy, in this unphilosophical
age and nation, has probably opposed the strongest
barrier, in this country, to the general recognition
of the facts adduced, and the doctrines maintained
in this work.* But the more
diligently, the more
'
I had conceived that Materialism, in its more gross and of-
fensive form, had been long since exploded; but I was mistaken.
I [ind that it has been recently reintroduced into Physiology,
not by any philosopher, indeed, but by a physician. Dr Elliot-
son of London, in his work on Physiology, asserts that
"
Mind
is the functional power ofthe living brain," and that "
the brain
thinks, and feels, and wills, as clearly as the liver produces
bile." These assertions are probably results of the science of
Phrenology, of which I have already ventured to give an opi¢
nion, and in which, I understand, Dr Elliotson is an
adept. I
might have been induced to make some remarks on
the mon-
strous absurdity of all such opinions, had not this been already
done to my hand by Mr Roberton of Manchester, in two ad-
mirable communications inserted in two recent numbers of the
London Medical Gazette. What would Dr Elliotson think if
I, who am no physiologist, should assert, in opposition to him
whoiatmc Mina_mz,¢pa-az, mamma'-aazpfa
'A
'
,
form, creates thfbmini Yet I might perhaps be able tb adduce
ANIMAL mscuarisu. 168
intimately, the more
profoundly, we examine into
the human constitution, and the more attentively
we observe its most interesting phenomena, the
more
firmly must we bc convinced that there are
many important springs and operations, many re-
markable actions and reactions in the vital econo-
my, which never can be satisfactorily explained.
upon the pure principles of Materialism. The Ma-
terialists themselves, indeed, seem to be perfectly
aware of the deficiencies of their own
systems;
and in order to supply a
remedy, they are com-
as many and as goodfacts, arguments, and authorities, in favour
of my assertion, as he could in support of his. But, in the
words of a former quotation, Medica, qua Median, ignotaeat anime.
The materialists, indeed, aB`ect to consider this question, re-
specting the nature of the soul, as of little or no consequence.
But here also I differ from them.
I beg lave to call the attention of my readers toan excellent
work lately published, entitled Natural Evidanoaqf a Future Life,
by F. C. Bskewell; a truly philosophical production, containing
one ofthe most beautiful and convincing specimens of analogi-
cal reasoning I ever happened to meet with. I wish I had seen
it sooner.
Sir Kenelm_Digby says it cannot be "
expected that an ex-
cellent physician, whose fimcy is always fraught with the mate-
rial drugs that he prescribeth his apotbecary to compound his
medicines ot; and whose hands are inured to the cutting up,
and eyes to the inspection of anatomized bodies, should easily,
and with success, die his thoughts at so
towering a
game as a
pure intellect, a
separated and unembodied soul."-Observations
an Sir T. Brown's Hdigio An anonymous commentator
on the same work alludes to a common saying: Ubi tres Medici,
the Athei.
164 ANIMAL mseusrlsm.
pelled to call in to their aid the auxiliary assistance
of two foreign principles: With their matter they
associate mechanism, which implies' design, and
must therefore be a
product of mind or
intelligence,
and postulate motion, the nature of which is direct-
ly opposite to that of matter; and they afterwards
resort to a
variety of gratuitous hypotheses, in or-
der to enable them to explain the reciprocal action
of these elements, in a manner
corresponding with
the _phenomena of the vital functions. They might
truly exclaim with the sacred' writer: Ambulavi-
mus vias d%les, et erravimus a via verdatis. For,
after all their expenditure of labour and ingenuity,
they find it wholly impossible to account for intel-
lect and the moral manifestations upon their fa-
vourite principles: and, at last, they only exhibit
to view a fanciful, fantastic,'and frightful monster
-like the Caliban-creature of the modern Prome-
theus-whose uncouth form and awkward move-
ments are calculated to excite the disgust, or the
risibility, of the rational philosopher.
The Animal Magnetist, on the other hand, takes
a more
simple, a more discriminating, and, at the
same time, a more comprehensive view of nature.
He distinguishes, as authorised by the facts pre-
sented to his notice, between the materiality and
the motion of bodies, and the spiritual principle
which animates and actuates organised beings; and
ANIMAL macunrxsm. 165
he considers the phenomena manifested by the lat-
ter as infinitely more
important to the philosophy
of man, than those of the former. He is not con-
tent to examine the Heshless skeleton, in order to
acquire a knowledge of the principles of life and
action; or to pore over the sapless trunk, with a
view to discover the causes of the germination of
the bud, or of the gradual growth and ultimate
maturity of the fruit. His business does not lie
among the tombs and _theccharnel-houses-the
abodes of decay and corruption. In the true spi~
rit of the inductive philosophy, he cautiously in-
terrogates living nature, receives her answers with
humility, and treasures them up with faith and
confidence, as infinitely more edifying and useful
than the most profuse ingenuity of perver e specu-
lation; and he is so much the more assured of the
reality and the solidity of the knowledge he has
thus acquired, because it ultimately rests upon a
lirm and insubvertible foundation of facts present-
ed by nature herself, and discard the feeble, pre-
carious, and unsatisfactory support of unsubstantial
and unstable hypotheses. He is thus enabled to
give a simple and suilicient philosophical reason
for the faith which is in him; while his whole
doctrine is calculated to elevate humanity, and to
dignify, by spiritualising, science.
In short,-in the phenomena manifested in the
166 .mnun Msenmrxsm;
higher degrees of Animal Magnetism, we
may find
a
complete practical refutation of all the material'
theories of the human mind, a most distinct, co-
gent, and impressive proof of the independent ex-
istence of the soul of man, and, consequently, the
strongest philosophical grounds for presuming its
immortality; since it has now been demonstrated
beyond the possibility of rational doubt, that, in
its manifestations, it is not necessarily chained
down to anyparticular part of the sensible and
mortal body; but that it is capable of exercising
its various functions, in peculiar circumstances,
without the assistance or
co-operation of any of
those material organs, by means of which it usual~
ly maintains a
correspondence with the external
world.* »
°
In eo tamen Wienholto adsentior, et his phaanomenis ali
immortalitatis spem ac augeri; cum nullum supersit dubium,
posse nos sentire ac percipere sine ullo organorum externorum
commercio.-Srmcwozn, Inst. Med. p. 311, § 401.
Dr Georget, to whom I have already referred, a
young and
most promising physician, and also a Member of the Institute
or Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, published a work of
great merit, in 1821, underthe title ot' Physiologie du System:
Nervous, in which he broadly professed the principles of mate#
rialism; but aitex-wards, on becoming acquainted with the phe-
nomena of the magnetic somnambulism, he found reason to
change his opinions, and in his last will and testament, dated lst
March 1826, he earnestly requested that the utmost publicity
might be given to his recantation.
Dr Georget is said to have been engaged in a work upon this
subject st the time of his death, in 1828.
'
`
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 167
With the greatest deference to the opinions of
those more
competent than myself to such inquiries,
it does appear to me, that the only possible method
of explaining how this correspondence is carried
on, in the circumstances alluded to, is by assuming
the existence of a
very subtile and attenuated
ethereal fluid, probably secreted in the brain, or
modified by that organ, acting under the command
of the will, and conducted to all parts of the cor-
poreal frame by means of the various ramifications
of the nerves. This opinion_ was
formerly enter-
tained, as we have seen, by the celebrated Hoff-
man, and by many other learned men, long before
the modern discovery of Animal Magnetism ;* and
°
In consequence of my ignorance of medical literature, I was
not, until lately, aware, that similar opinions had been adopted,
and maintained with great knowledge and acuteness, by those
eminent practical enquirers, _Mr Hunter and Mr Abemethy.
The latter, in illustrating the theory of his predecessor, considers
Life, or the vital principle, as a sort of connecting medium be-
tween mind and matter-each, however, being independent of
the other; and that mind is added to life, aslife has been added
to organization.
"
1 am visionary enough," he observes,
"
to
imagine, that if these opinions should becomeso established as
to be generally admitted by philosophers, that if they once saw
reason to believe thatslife was something of an invisible and ac-
tive nature, superadded to organization, they would then see
equal reason to believe that mind might be superadded to life,
as life is to structure. They would then, indeed, still further
perceive how mind and matter might reciprocally operate on each
other by means of an
intervening substance. Thus even would
philosophical-researches enforce the-belief; which, I may say, is
168 ANIMAL Macs!-:'r1sM.
there are various facts and observations, indepen-
dently of the analogous phenomena of Magnetism,
Electricity, and Electro-Magnetism, which almost
seem to take this assumption out of the category of
a mere hypothesis. Roullier observes, that, 'in
Magnetism, the physical processes elicit a. Huid,
which reasoning and analogy would compel us, as
it were, to admit, even if all somnambulists had
not besides invariably attested its existence. The
somnambulists see this Huid white as
light, and
natural to msn, that, in addition tohis bodily 6-ame, he possesses
a sentient, intelligent, and independent mind; an
opinion which
tends, in an eminent degree, to produce virtuous, usefiil and
honourable actions." Mr Abernethy is also favourable to the
hypothesisofan universal attenuated ethereal fluid or substance,
pervading all nature, and constituting the life of the world; and
he thinks that a similar principle may pervade organized struc-
tures, and have like eifects on them.....See Anxnurrnfs Phy-
siological Lectures. I believe that these rational opinions of Mr
Abernethy encountered vimlent opposition from the materialistic
tendency of the age.
The late Mr Coleridge thought that "
it is a
great error in
physiology not to distinguish between what may be called the
general or fundamental life-the principium vita, and the fianc-
tional life-the life in the functions. Organization must pre-
suppose life as anterior to it ; without life there could not be or
remsin any organization; but then there is also a life in the
org|.ns,}orh1nctions, distinct from the other."- Table- Talk, vol. i.
pp. 144445.
I do not precisely see thenecessity of Mr Co1eridge's distinc-
tion between the fimdamental and the timctional life; the latter
may be considered as merely a portion of the former, destined,
or directed, to a particular purpose. But I conceive that Cole-
ridge is quite correct in lying that organization presupposes
_
ANIMAL MacN1=:'rIsM. 169
sprinkled with brilliant sparks, when the magneti-
zer operates, with more or less energy, with the`
points of his fingers; and among these somnambu-
lists, there have been children, persons without
any knowledge of physics, and even some who, in
their natural state, had no confidence in Magnet-
ism."* And Puysegur makes the following curi=
ous
comparison between the magnetic processes
and the action of the electric machine :
"
The elec-
tric machine, set in motion by the handle, which
causes the glass-plate to revolve between two cu-
life as anterior to it, and that without life there could be no or-
ganization. Life, embracing the niausformativuaiof Blumenbach,
is, unquestionably, the secondary cause of all organization, ss
well as of all functional manifestations. _
'
The following are some of the general conclusions deduced by
Mr Bakewell, in his interesting work on the Natural Evidence
of a Fulure Life. ~
The vegetative principle exists prior to the organization ot'
the plant, unless we could suppose that the effect of vegetation
is produced without any cause. In organized beings, the living
principle must exist prior to, and is not consequent upon, animal
organization. The sentient principle, and the intellectual
powers, are distinct fiom material substance, and independent
of the material agents by which they are developed. The brain
is merely the apparatus for developing the powers of the mind;
and any deficiency in the proper development, occasioned by
injury, or by the decay of the apparatus, is no more indicative
of the decay of mental power, than any derangement in the
machinery of the steam engine, which impedes its action, is to
be considered indicative of the loss of the expansive power of
heat, by which it was previously set in motion.
°
seeBibzi¢a»¢gu¢auM¢ymi»»¢A»i»»¢1,wm.iis.__ ~
VOL. ll.
°
P
170 ANIMAL maeumrxsu.
shions, is the image of the human magnetizer. Let
this motion stop, then all communications cease,
all the sparks disappear, in short, all kinds of elec-
trical manifestations are at an end. In the same
manner, the manifestations of Animal Magnetism
cease, from the moment that our will, the handle
of our
thought, no longer acts magnetically, with
the intention of producing tbem."*
But although we
may find ourselves compelled,
either by the necessity of the case, or
by the result
of experiment and observation, to admit that some-
thing of attenuated, invisible, and imponderable
materiality, analogous to Electricity, exists in the
living body; in doing so, we in no degree infringe
upon the important doctrine of the immateriality
and indestructibility of the soul itself. The ner-
vous, vital, or magnetic energy, or
by whatever
other name it may be called, may be considered as
an actual iiuid, supplied from the blood, elaborated
by the brain and nerves, pervading the whole sys--
tem, and forming an admirable gradation, a beau-
tiful and most appropriate connecting link between
the more
gross material parts and the immaterial
soul. Such a
theory-viewing it merely as a
theory-might elucidate many obscure points in
physiology; such as the evolution of animal heat,
the operation of the senses, the separation of the
'
See Bibliodlequtdu Magrutiame Animal, p. 2ll.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 171
blood drawn during inflammatory diseases, irrita-
bility and contractility, the dependent action of the
heart, lungs, and arteries, the reciprocal inliuenee
of the body and mind upon each other ; in short,
many of the most wonderful, and apparently inex-
plicable, phenomena of the animal economy. Such
a
theory, too, seems far more analogically consist~
ent with that beautiful regularity, that harmonious
and almost imperceptible gradation, which is so
admirably manifested in all the works of Divine
Power and Wisdom, than to conceive the immate-
rial and immortal soul to be immediately united to
the gross and perishable body. Moreover, this vi-
tal energy may be considered either as a
peculiar
fluid sui generis, or as a
particular modification of
an universal fluid, pervading all nature, as the ve-
hicle or medium through which are
produced all
the most remarkable phenomena that occur in the
physical and the moral world.*
The preceding views are powerfully corroborated
by the speculations of some of the most eminent
metaphysicians.
A certain class of philosophers, deeply impressed
with the mysterious intimations and manifestations
of our spiritual nature, in contradistinction to
those of the mere sensible organization, have been
'
See some speculations upon this subject in the Appendix,
No. III.
172 Amman MAGNETISM.
led, independently of Revelation, to assume a two-
fold world-a sensible and a
supersensible, a two-
fold life in man-the phenomenal and the noumenal ;
the one
adapted to our condition, and the circum-
stances by which we are surrounded, in the pre-
sent state of our existence-the other manifesting
within us a more
spiritual character, and render-
ing' us
capable of anticipating and enjoying the
prospect of la future. The poets, too, yielding to
the impulse of these lofty aspirations, have fre-
quently appealed, with rapt inspiration, to the
higher principles of our being, in their glowing
ideal representations of the dignity of that spiri-
tual nature which was infused into man at the
creation. The discoveries of Animal Magnetism
have at length demonstrated that, in all this, there
is something more than mere
metaphysical hypo-
thesis, or
poetical rhapsody. They have experi-
mentally proved that there is something more ele-
vated in the nature of man, than appear to com-
mon observation in the ordinary state of our exist-
ence; and, from the interesting and consolatory
truths they have unfolded, there has been deve-
loped, as the Bower from the bud, that delightful
faith in the expansive and imperisbable character
of our
spiritual being, which, while it exalts us
beyond the narrow limits of time and space, and
teaches us to aspire to a brighter, a
purer, and a
ANIMAL Mscnnrism. 173
loftier destiny, seems calculated ultimately to pro-
duce an etemal reconciliation and harmonious con-
cord between Religion and Philosophy!
'
I have heard with concern that certain clerical personages
_-of what 'denomination I know not -were disposed to take
violent offence at my former publication, conceiving it, I pre-
sume, to be hostile to some of their religious principles. I have
not seen their animadversions, nor do I wish to see them; being
naturally averse to all such controversy, and not particularly
anxious to expose myselfto the proverbial odiwn thaologicum.
An anonymous annotator on Sir Thomas Brown's Ileligio Ms-
dicipbserves, that "
the author's behaviour, and general method
of reasoning as to matters of religion, was always inclining to
moderation. Upon that account he easily foresaw, and perhaps
had undergone the imputation of atheism from the narrow-
minded bigots, who are so overswayed by a preposterous zeal,
that they hate all moderation in discoursing of religion: they
are the men, fox-sooth,_-qui solos oredant habendoc we Door qua:
ipsioolunt." At one time, indeed, all those philosophers who
applied themselves to the study of the operations of nature,
were accounted irreliglous; and there is scarcely any one science
which has not, in its tum, been denounced as impious.
But I would justentreat the reverend gentlemen, to whom I
have alluded, to consider, that the whole of my offence consists
in having brought prominently forward some natural facts, hi-
therto overlooked or
neglected. Now, I hold that, to use the
language of Lord Bacon,
"
there is no enmity between God's
word and his works." lf these alleged facts be false, let them
be disproved or invalidated. If they be true-How can truth
injure religion? How can our
knowledge of these things di-
minish our reverence for that Being who is the author of the
one, and the object of the other ? Nothingbut gross ignorance,
and an ill regulated devotion, indeed, could suggest any such
views ; and their prevalence would only prove that, in spite of
the boasted intelligence ofthe present age, the day has not yet
arrived, when, as anticipated by the great Kepler,
"
pious
174 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
I have thus humbly endeavoured to make my
readers acquainted, not only with the interesting
facts disclosed by the processes of Animal Magnet-
ism, but also with the nature and tendency of the
doctrines necessarily embraced by its advocates-
If they believe, as
firmly as I do, in the truth of
the facts which have been submitted to their con-
simplicity will become ashamed of its blind superstition- when
men will recognise truth in the book of nature, as well as in the
Holy Scriptures, and rejoice in the two revelations."
The doctrines of Animal Magnetism, I apprehend, are emi-
n tly calculated to promote the true interests of spiritual re-
ligion, by associating with it a spiritual philosophy. And where
shall we find a more admirable demonstration of the Power,
Wisdom, and Goodness of God, than is presented to us in the
phenomena detailed in this work? Where a more sublime and
ennobling subject of contemplation, than the manifestations of
the immaterial soul of man, breathed into him by the Creator,
independently of the material organism ? When engaged in
such contemplation, who would not feel disposed to exclaim with
the poet :
"
How poor-how rich-how abject-how august-
"
How complicate-how wonderful is msn!
"
How wonder He who made him such!
"
Who center'd in our make such strange extremes ;
"
From diferent natures maroellolnly þÿm ¬:r'd
;
"
Connexion exquisite qfdistant worlds I"
I have always had considerable doubts whether any contem-
plation of the merely material universe can produce, in our
minds, such lohy thoughts of the wisdom and goodness of God,
or of the nature and destinies of man, as a
just and comprehen-
sive view of his spiritual, intellectual, and moral constitution.
In contemplating the phenomena of the external world, the
ANIMAL MAGNI-:'r1sM. 175
sideration-and this, I presume, must depend upon
the attention they have bestowed upon the evidence
-they cannot fail, I think, to he convinced, that
the discovery of the agency in question is of great
value to medical science, and of almost infinite im-
portance to philosophy. For my own
part, I do
feelings naturally excited in the mind are those of admiration
and awe; but I much doubt the propriety of any finite being
presuming to sit in judgment over the works of infinite power
and wisdom, and attempting to explain them according to his
own narrow notions of fitness, adaptation and design; and I am
therefore exceedingly sceptical with regard to the spiritual edi-
Scatlon to be derived from a perusal of the late Bridgewater
Tzutises, excellent as they are in other respects. It appears
to me, that, in the following truly sublime passage, the immortal
Kant has justly discriminated between the feelings produced
by the two species of contemplation alluded to z
"
There are," says he,
"
two things which fill the mind with
ever new and increasing admiration and awe, the longer and the
more frequently we reilect upon them. The starry heavens
above, and the moral law within me. Neither of these may I
consider as involved in obscurity, or as placed infinitely beyond
my sphere of contemplation. I see them both before me, and
connect them immediately with the consciousness of my exist-
ence. The first commences at the place I occupy in the exter-
nal world of sense, and extends into the immeasurably great the
connexion in which I stand towards worlds upon worlds, and
systems upon systems, with their boundless periodical motions,
their commencement and duration. The second commences
with my invisible self, my personality, and represents itself as
in a world of real iniinitude, although comprehensible only by
the understanding, and with which (as, at the same time, with
all visible worlds), I find myself placed, not, as in the former
case, in merely accidental, but in an universal and necessary
connexion. The Brst aspect of an innumerable multitude of
|76 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
not hesitate to avow
my sincere and honest con-
viction, that the results to which this discovery
has conducted us, are destined, sooner or later, to
operate a, most essential change upon the aspect
and constitution of several of those sciences which
have obviously been founded upon too narrow an
induction, and which yet pretend to exclusiveness,
although their professors are
compelled to have
recourse to empty speculation, in order to sup-
worlds annihilates, as it were, my importance, as an animal be-
ing, which must again restore to the planet it inhabits-s mere
point in the universe-the matter out of which it was
originally
created, after it had been, for a short time, we know not how,
endowed with vital energy. The second, on the other hand,
infinitely exalts my value, by reason of my personality, in which
the moral law reveals to me a life independent of the mere ani-
mal existence, and even of the whole sensible world, atleast so
far as we can
judgefrom the appropriate destination of our being
through this law, seeing that it is not restricted to the conditions
and limits of this life, but reaches into eternity."-Crit. dar
Pract. Vern.
The contemplation of the external universe is calculated to
make the deepest impression upon the rude_mind of the savage;
that of the moral world, upon the more refined intellect of the
civilized man.
I have already mentioned the case of Dr Georget; and I am
informed that the study of the phenomena of Animal Magnetism
has lately done wonders in France, by weaning many from the
deadly errors of materialism and infidelity, and giving birth to
a sound spiritual and religious faith#
Notwithstanding some recent phrenologlcal manifestations, I
trust that our Scottish clergy are not yet indissolubly attached
to the principles of materialism, and prepared, like Priestley, to
attempt to reconcile them with religion..
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 177
ply their acknowledged want of a solid basis of
facts!
If, unfortunately, I have been unsuccessful in
my endeavours to impress upon the minds of my
readers a
complete conviction of the reality and
° "
That which distinguishes this from all previous discove-
ries, is, that not only have the physical sciences become enriched
by a filet until then unknown or mis1mderstood,,but that meta-
physics will inevitably derive from it lights favourable to 'the
development and future progress of that science. This Brat
cause, this eternal principle of things, this spirit which viviiies
matter--the freedom of man, the incorporeal nature of thought.
its immaterial origin, and the immeasurable sphere of its action
-all these great questions, which metaphysics hitherto could
only resolve by the help of speculation, seem now to be analy-
tically and experimentally demonstrated by the magnetism of
the _will."_.BibI6othaque du Magnatiame Animal, tom. ii. pp. 145,
l46.
The following are some of the important inferences which Dr
Jung-Stelling justly deduces from the phenomena of Animal
Magnetism. My readers may compare them with the facts ad-
duced in this work.
"
In our present natural state, we cannot attainto any know-
ledge of created things, in any other way, than through the
medium of our tive organs of sense.
"
If any change be made in our organs of sense, or their in-
ternal arrangement be altered, our ideas of things, and, with
them, our
knowledge becomes different; for instance, if our eye
were otherwise formed, all colours, forms, figures, dimensions
and distances would also be different, and the same is the ca.se
with all the five senses.
"
Beings that are differently organized from ourselves, form
an entirely different idea of our world, from what we do. Hence
it follows, incontestihly, that the ideas we form of the creation,
and all the science and knowledge resulting from them, depend
upon our
organization. _
I78 ANIMAL Macs:-:'r|sM.
importance of the phenomena of Animal Magne-
tism-a circumstance which I should be disposed
"
God views every thing as it is in itself, and in reality, out
of time and space," &.c._" No space exists out of us in Nature,
but our ideas of it arise solely from our
organization."_" Time
is also a mode of thinking peculiar to finite capacities, and not
any thing true or real."
"
Animal Magnetism undeniably proves that we have an in-
ward man, a soul," &.c.
"
Light, electric, magnetic, galvanic matter, and ether, ap-
pear to be all one and the same body, under different modifica-
tions. This light, or ether, is the element which connects soul
and body and the spiritual and material world together.
"
When the inward man, the human soul, forsakes the in-
ward sphere, where the senses operate, and merely continues
the vital functions, the body falls into an entranced state, or a
profound sleep, during which the soul acts much more freely
and poweriillly, all its iiaculties being elevated.
"
The more the soul is divested of the body, the more ex-
tensive, free and powerfinl is its inward sphere of operation.
It has, therefore, no need whatever of the body, in order to
live and exist: the latter is rather an hinderance to it," &c.
"
The foregoing inferences are drawn from experiments in
Animal Magnetism. These most important experiments unde-
niably shew, that the soul does not necessarily require the or-
gans of sense in order to be able to see, hear, smell, taste, and
feel, in a much more perfect state."-" The soul in this state
has no perception whatever of the visible world; but if it be
brought into reciprocal connexion (rapport) with some one who
is in his natural state, and acts through the medium of his cor-
poreal senses......... it becomes conscious of the visible world
through him, and in him is sensible of it."
"
Space is merely the operation of the material organs ot
sense; out of them it has no existence; therefore, as soon as
the soul fbrsakes the latter, all proximity and distance cease.
H ee, if it stand in rapport with a
person who is many thou-
sand miles distant from it, it can
impart knowledge, by an in-
ANIMAL MAGN1-:'rxsM. 179
to ascribe to the inability or unskilfulness of the
advocate, rather than to the weakness of the cause
-I trust that I have, at least,_been enabled to dis-
pel many unjust prejudices which they had been
previously induced, by ignorant or interested per-
sons, to entertain in regard toits facts and its doc-
trines, and to stimulate their curiosity to become
better acquainted with this highly interesting sub-
ject of investigation. Even in this view, I should
not conceive my time and labour to have been un-
profitably spent. Although myself unable to give
an effective blow to the materialism and scepticism,
the sensuality and libertinism of the age, I may
yet have succeeded in giving a favourable impetus
to public discussion, and furnished arms and argu-
ments which may be wielded with greater force
ternal communication, and receive it from such an one, and all
this as rapidly as
thoughts follow each other."-" When the
soul is separated from the body, it is wherever it thinks to be;
for as space is only its mode of thinking, but does not exist ex-
cept in its idea, it is alwafs at the place which it represents to
itself, if it may be there.
"
Time being also, in iiict, a mere mode of thinking, and not
existing in reality, the departed soul may be susceptible of iii-
ture things, &c.
"
By magnetism, nervous disorders, long continued efforts
of the soul, and by other secret means, a person who has a na~
tural predisposition for it, may, in the present life, detach his
soul, in a
greater or less degree, from its corpcreal organiza-
tion," &c. See Dr Jung-Stilling's Thooryqf Pnoumatology-a
work containing many curious and important facts, and much
ingenious reasoning, mixed up with some mysticism.
180 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
and eifect by more
powerful hands and mightier
minds than my own.
With regard to the bygone fortunes of Animal
Magnetism, the first report of the French Acade-
micians in 1784 threw a
degree of doubt and ri-
dicule over the whole inquiry, which the subse-
quent efforts of many leamed men, eager to re-
fute, or to condemn, yet unwilling to investigate,
naturally tended to augment, rather than to dis-
pel. They would not grant the new doctrine even
the privilege of a fair hearing. It has been ob-
served by Lord Bacon, that "
when a doubt is*once
received, men labour rather how to keep it a doubt
still, and accordingly bend their wits." ......
"
But,"
says his Lordship,
"
that use of wit and knowledge
_is to be allowed, which laboureth to make doubtful
things certain, and not those which labour to make
certain things doubtful."
More than half a
century has now
elapsed since
the report in question was drawn up and presented
to the public, and, during that period, many learn-
ed and eminent individuals have, by experimental
investigation, fully demonstrated the reality of the
disputed facts, and thrown much light on the prin-
ciples upon which they probably depend. The
truth of the doctrines of Animal Magnetism, there-
fore, must be determined, not by the points of
view in which they presented themselves to the
ANIMAL Macssrxsm. |81
French Commissioners in |784-, but according to
the more matured form they have since been made
to assume
by the assiduous labours of subsequent
inquirers. For my own
part-~a humble labourer
in the vineyard of science-I should be happy
to think that I had been, in any degree, in tru-
mental in diffusing a knowledge of these import-
ant but neglected truths, or, at least in promoting
and facilitating the investigation. I desire not a
blind belief, but an
impartial examination, and a
rational conviction. ln short, all that 1 now ask,
or have ever asked, for Animal Magnetism, is, what
I presume no
person of intelligence and candour
can refuse .me-a _fair field, and no favour. Hoc
unum gestit : ne ignorata damnetun*
It may be, with truth asserted, that the merits
of the controversy between the Animal Magnetists
and their opponents of all descriptions, must be
considered as
having been long since determined
in the eyes of all enlightened and rational men_
On the one side, we have a vast number of curious
and incontrovertible facts, abundantly attested by
competent and credible witnesses, and supported
by many natural analogies: On the other, we meet
with nothing but ignorant ridicule, wilfully blind,
perverse and invincible prejudices, or with inge-
nious but empty opinions, arguments and specula-
'
TEITUILIAU, Apologslioum, c. l.
182 ANIMAL MAGNE'rxsM.
tions, incon istent with these i`acts and analogies.
The contest lies entirely between fact and theory
or preconception; and no rational mind can hesi-
tate for a moment, after adequate inquiry, to de-
termine on which side the truth is to be found.
Indeed, it may happen here, as, in other cases, that,
in the words of Bacon, "
the voice of Nature will
consent, whether the voice of man do or not."
-By those, indeed, who have thoroughly investi-
gated the ubject with attention, discrimination,
and impartiality, the doctrine of Animal Magne-
tism is now considered as a real, an
important,
and an
imperishable acquisition. There are few
truths which have been ultimately evolved under
more unfavourable circumstances. It has already
withstood the severest trials- time, scientific op-
position in an enlightened age, persecution, misre-
presentation, sophistry, contempt, ridicule-even
the desolating tempests of political revolution. If
the victory has been at length achieved upon the
Continent, we owe a debt of gratitude to those ho-
nest, those persevering and indefatigable men, who,
having once been fortunate enough to seize upon
the truth, held it fast for a time, until at last they
were enabled to carry it triumphantly into the very
camp of the scorner.*
'
See the late Report of the French Royal Academy of Me-
dicine, Appendix, No. I.
1
ANIMAL Maeulrrxsm. 183
But, in order to render the ultimate triumph of
truth fully available to humanity, it is necessary
that philosophers and enlightened physicians should
at length abandon that irrational state of opposi-
tion or indiH`erence in which they have hitherto
sought to entrcnch themselves--that they should
restrain that upercilious scepticism with which
they have long been accustomed to regard the phe-
nomena-that they should condescend toinvesti-
gate the facts carefully, rigorously, and impartially
-that, when their researches have produced con-
viction, they should endeavour to wrest the mag-
netic treatment out of the hands of the unskilful
empiric, take it into their own
management, and
exercise it for the benefit of mankind. Should me-
dical men
spurn this advice, I do not hesitate to
maintain, that they wilfully neglect one of the
most important duties of their profession, deprive
themselves of a large sphere of usefulness, and ren-
der themselves guiltyof no slight offence against the
interests of society. Let them remember, as Lord
Bacon has justly observed, that "
the science of
medicine, if it be destituted and forsaken by natu-
ral` philosophy, is not much better than an
empiri-
cal practice."
To the philosopher, I would repeat the sugges-
tion of the venerable M. Deleuze, in his admirable
Defense of this doctrine against the attacks of M.
184 ANIMAL Mionsrism.
Virey. Animal Magnetism is a natural cause,
which explains all the ei}`ects lbrmerly attributed
to magic and witchcraft, as
electricity explains the
thunder, as astronomy explains the appearance of
comets, as a knowledge of the different laws of na-
ture explains all those phenomena which, in times
of ignorance, were ascribed to supernatural agents.
The opinion that an
emanation from one
person,
directed by his will, may act upon another indivi-
dualats an emanation from the brain acts upon
the lingers-does not conduct us to the belief of
the action of devils: on the contrary, it annihilates
this superstition, by teaching us to see in ourselves
the cause of many eii'ects, which were
formerly as-
cribed to strange and chimerical powers.*
To the Divine I would humbly submit, that the
doctrine of Animal Magnetism does, in no
degree,
interfere with our belief in real miracles, because
it does not prevent us from believing that the om-
nipotent Author of nature may, if and when he
pleases, interrupt or suspend the ordinary laws of
nature. But this doctrine does tend to prevent us
from believing in false and pretended miracles, by
'
In this view, Animal Magnetism might., perhaps, be not
inaptly considered as the Philosophy of Superstition ; its object
being to investigate the natural causes of many of those pheno-
mena which have hitherto been entirely disbelieved against po-
sitive evidence of their reality, or held to be the effects of su-
pernatural agency.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 185
demonstrating that the facts, which appeared mira-
culous before Magnetism became known, are
only
the effects of a
faculty natural fto man! The real
'
The Roman Catholics have a curious, and rather ingenious,
method of accounting for the extraordinary phenomena of Ani-
mal Magnetism. When they are produced by a priest or saint
of their own church, they are the work of God; when by a
pro-
estant, or a member of any other persuasion, they are the work
of the devil.
I have now before me a work, entitled, La Religion oomtatéc
univeraellemant, &c. by M. dela Marne, published at Paris in
1833. The author is a bigoted Roman Catholic. In the course
of his work, he has occasion to investigate the subject of Animal
Magnetism; and the most zealous disciple of Mesmer could not
be more anxious, than he is, to establish the reality ofthe phe-
nomena. But, then, he ascribes them all to the devil, or to
diabolical agencies. Every Protestant writer-every writer who
is not a blind devotee to the Romish church_he uniformly stig-
matizes as an ecrivain impia or irreligieur ; and I verily believe
that if our own venerable and venerated Dr Chalmers should
happen to come across the path of this zealot, even he would
not escape the fiery anathema.
But this jesuitical author is not content with anathematizing
Christian authors. He attacks the Bible itself; as in duty
bound; and'is not far from designating it as an impioua book.
The thing is scarcely credible, but it is really so. After telling
us, in the text, that "
there are no means more easy or more
eiiicacious, for becoming acquainted with religion in all its ple-
nitude, than to listen with respect to the instructions of the
Church; he proceeds, in the following manner, in a note :_-
"
The Protestant sects"fbut I must decline to translate such
irreverent matter, and give it in the author's own
language-
"
Les sectes protestantes disent que la Bible, qu'elles appellent
superstitieuseunt Ia parole da Dieu, est encore un meilleur moyen.
Conjecture deraisonablei Car d'abord qui vous a dit que ce
recueil d'ecrits, rédigéstant bien que mal, etait Ia parole do Dieu ii
vol.. ii. _
Q
186 ANIMAL Mmm-:T1sM.
tendency of Animal Magnetism, therefore, is to
give a
powerful, although an indirect, support to
De qui tenez-vous cette etrange assertion ? Ou sont vos
preuves, vos garanties, vos raisons P Helss I la superstition
vous etourdil.. Vous croyez puerilement sans ombre de preuve.
Vous ne vnyez pas meme que votre credulité attribue h Dieu
de grossieres erreurs, une ignorance choquante, toutes les mi-
seres
mentalesdes ecrivains de la Judée. Et ensuite d'ou save!
vous que toutes les doctrines sacrées se trouvent ecrites dans la
Bible? Elle-meme le dit-elle? Nulle part. Jesus-Christ Ps
t-il revelé? Jamais; la Bible d'ailleurs n'etait qu'a moitié fiife
de son temps. L'Eglise enseigne-t-elle ce point capital P Loin
de la, elle assure le contraire. Encore une fois donc, ou avez-
vous trouvé cette mysterieuse nouvelle? Ssotes bibliolatrul ici,
vous le comprenez, il iinut vous taire. Mais au moius regardez-
la done de-pres, cette Bible que vous divinisez. Bemarquez-en
les nombfeux dehuts. Considerez aussi combien elle est loin
d'avoir la moindre apparence d'un recueil complet d verit6s re-
ligleuses. Que sont en effet les livres qui la composent? Des
relations historiques, des discours sur quelques doctrines parti-
culieres, des allegoriés morales, des predictions. et des lettres.
Est-il un seul de ces ecrits qui ait Paspect d'un traité de la Re-
ligion ? En est-il un seul qui paraisse le moins du monde avoir
et6 iiait pour l'exposer toute entiere ? Et Pensemble ne re-
pousse-t-il pas avec force cette vaine conjecture ?"
After this, the reader will scarcely be surprised to End this
worthy disciple of Ignatius, Loyola and Peter Deus exalting the
Fathers of the Church above the Bible and its faithful exposi-
tors, and devoting the impious protestant bibliolahea to the wrath
and vengeance of God.
"
Mais viendra le jour des vengeances. Alors malheur A 1'in-
gratltude; malheur, malheur, a
Pimpieté! Car l'Eternal compte
les crimes des hommes, le glaive de sa justice est etendu sur
leurs tetes, le feu des chatiments brule deja, nul coupable n'e-
chappers. Ilfadit, le aqmmeArbétndos¢simnoss; elasapanla
nepauantpoint."-See tom. ll. pp. 451, &,c.
(This, by-the-by, is rather inconsistent. Where are these
ANIMAL MAGNETISH. 187
true religion, by overthrowing one
prevalent species
of superstition: For, as St Cyprian has said, super,
falsak religio vera sulrvertitur.
To the philosopher, the physician, and the di-
vine, I would strongly recommend the study of
the proofs, alforded hy Animal Magnetism, of the
immateriality, independence, and immortality of
the human soul.
Before I conclude, I must beg leave to be per-
mitted to add u few words of solemn warning. In
attempting to produce the magnetic phenomena, I
would earnestly caution individuals against all ex-
periments of mere curiosity. Whatever ludicrous
ideas many persons may have been hitherto in the
habit of associating with this subject, I can seriousi
ly assure them that experience has proved Mag-
netism to he no triding matter. Even the oppo-
nents of the system acknowledge, whilst its advo-
cates admit, that the injudicious practice of it may
words of God to be found if not in the Bible P But the author,
ss we have does not admit that the Bible is the Word of
God.
Tlie theology of this writer can impose upon no person of
sense and education. The resson of his hostility to Animal
Magnetism is also clear. The discoveries of the professors of
that doctrine have revealed the secret of the pretended Roman
Catholic miracles; they have unveiled and exposed their diabo-
lical exorcisms; and thus threaten to deprive the priesthood of
that church of one of themsin pillars of their establishment,
-
vfoneofthemostlucnlzlvehranchesofthelrtrade.
188 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
be attended with. dangerous consequences. We
must not recklessly attempt to handle the thunder-
bolt, or to play with the lightning of heaven,lest
we be consumed to ashes. Like every higher gift
conferred upon us
by the Creator, the magnetic
faculty ought to be exerted with judgment, pru-
dence, and discretion, and only forhenevolent pur-
poses.
"
We do not know," says the great Dr
Hufeland (in his Journal der Heilkunde)-" we do
not know either theessence or the limits of this
astonishing power; but every thing proves that .it
penetrates the depth of the organism, and the in-
ternal life of the nervous
system; that it may even
aH`ect the mind itself, and disturb its ordinary re#
lations. Whoever, then, undertakes to govem and
direct this mysterious power, attempts a
very hold
taslr.= Let him consider well. that he is probably
penetrating, as far' as is possible, into the most
elevated laws of nature. Never .let him enter this
sanctuary without reverential fear, and without
the most profound respect for the principle which
he endeavours to set in operation. Above all, let'
him beware of magnetizing in sport. In medicine,
the most indifferent remedy is injurious to persons
in health; still more so an
agent which is perhaps
the most active and energetic of all remedies."
For these reasons, while the unquestionable phe-
nomena of Animal Magnetism suggestto the phi..
ANIMAL MAGN l~:'r1sM. 189
losopher the most interesting topics of scientific in-
vestigation, it has always been the wish of every
intelligent Magnetist, that the remedial practice of
the art should be consigned entirely into the hands
of the professional physician. Upon the Continent,
this object seems to have been already nearly ac-
complished. In this country, on the contrary, the
profession, in general, appear to look upon the
whole subject with the most profound apathetic in-
difference, out of which, it is probable, they will
only be eventually aroused, in self defence, by the
superior intelligence of the public.
d
In this work, I have merely touched upon some
of the more
important consequences which are like-
ly to result from the magnetic discovery. There
are
many other subordinate topics, connected with
the subject, which may probably _suggest them-
selves to the mind of the philosophical inquirer ;
and these may afford matter for farther discussion,
upon some future occasion.
APPENDIX
( 198 ;
No. I.
_
REPORT
ON THE
MAGNETIC EXPERIMENTS,
A
MADE BY A COMMITTEE OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF
MEDICINE, AT PARKS.
GBNTLEMEN,-MOIO than. five years have elapsed
since a
young physician, M. Foissac, whose zeal and ta-
lent for observation we have had frequent opportunities
of remarking, thought it his duty to draw the attention
of the Medical Section to the 'phenomena of Animal
Magnetism. With regard to the Report made by the
Royal Society of Medicine in 1784, he recalled to our
recollection, that, amongst the commissioners charged
with conducting the experiments, there was one oon-
scientious and enlightened man, who had published a
Report in contradiction to that of his colleagues# that
since the period in question; Magnetism had been the
object of new experiments and of new investigations;
and, with the consent of the section, he proposed to
VOL. rx. B
194 Arrsumx, No. 1.
submit to their examination a somnambulist who ap-
peared to him to be capable of throwing light upon a
question, which several of the most intelligent men in
France and Germany considered as far from being re-
solved, although, in 1784, the Academy of Sciences
and the Royal Society of Medicine had pronounced an
unfavourable judgment.
A committee, composed of MM. Adelon, Burdin the
elder, Marc, Pariset, and mylelf (M. Husson), were
appointed by you to report upon the proposition of M.
Foissac.
The Report, which was
presented to the Section of
Medicine at its meeting of the 13th December 1825,
concluded that Magnetism ought to be subjected to a
new investigation. This conclusion gave rise to an
animated discussion, which was prolonged during three
meetings-the 10th and 24th of January, and the 14th
of February, 1826. At this last meeting, the commit-
tee replied to all the objections which had been made
to their Report; and at the same meeting, after ma-
ture deliberation, after adopting the mode hitherto im-
nsual in matters of science, of an individual scrutiny,
the Section decided that a special committee should be
appointed, in order to investigate anew the phenomena
of Animal M°8"!9§iSm-
This new committee, consisting of MM. Bourdois,
Double, Itard, Gneneau de Hussy, Guersent, Fauquier,
Laennec, Leroux, Magendie, Marc, and Thillhye, was
nsronr on ANIMAL maeunrxsm. 195
appointed at the meeting of the 28th February 1826.
Some time afterwards, M. Laennec, having been ob-
liged to leave Paris on account of his health, I was
named to replace him ; and the committee, thus consti-
tuted, proceeded to discharge the duty with which it
had been entrusted.
Their first care, previous to the retirement of M.
Laennec, was to examine the somnambulist who had
been ofered to them by M. Foissac-
Varieus experiments were made upon her within
the premises of the Academy; but we must confess
that our inexperienoe, our impatience, our distrust, per-
haps too strongly manifested, permitted us only to ob-
serve certain physiological phenomena sniiiqiently cn-
rious, which we shall communicate to you in the sequel
of our Report, but in which we did not recognise any
peculiar phenomena of somnambulism. This somnam-
bulist, fatigued, no doubt, with our importunities,
at this time, to be placed at our disposal; and we were
obliged to search the hospitals for the means of prose-
cuting wr experiments-
M. Psriset, physician to the Salpetriere, was more
capable than any other of assisting us in our search.
He set about the task with an ardonr, which, unfortu-
nately, led to no result. The committee, who founded
a great part of their hopes upon the resources which
this hospital might he capable of furnishing, whether
in regard to the individuals who might be subjected to
196 APPENDIX, No. 1. »
experiment, or to the presence of M. Magendie, who
had requested to accompany them as one of the com-
mittee; the committee, we
say, seeing itself deprived
ofA
those means of instruction which it had expected to
ind, had recourse to the zeal of each of its individual
members.
M. Guersent promised us his assistance in the hos-
pital des Enfana, M. Fouquier in the' hospital de Ia
Charité, MM. Gueneau and the Reporter in the Hotel-
Dieu, M. Itard in the Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb ; and thenceforward, each prepared to make ex-
periments, which were subsequentlyto be witnessed by
the other members of the committee. Other and more
powerful obstacles soon arrested our labours; the causes
from which these obstacles proceeded are unknown to
us; but, in virtue of a decree of the General Council
of the Hospitals, of date the 19th of October 1825,
which prohibited the use of every new
remedy which
had not previously been approved of by a committee
appointed by the Council, the magnetic experiments
could not be continued at the hospital de la Charité.
Reduced to their own resources, to those which the
particular relation of each of its individual members
might present, the committee made an appeal to all
the physicians who were known to make Animal Mag-
netism the object of their researches. We requested
them to allow us to witness their experiments, to ac-
company them during their progress,`and to confirm
nspom' on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 197
the results. We are bound to declare that- we have
been most effectually assisted in our investigations by
several of our brethren, and especially by the gentle-
man who first suggested the inquiry, M. Foissac. _
We
do not hesitate to declare, that it is to his constant and
persevering intervention, and to the active zeal of- M.
Dupotet, that we are indebted for the greater part'of
the inaterials embodied in the Report which we now
presentto you. Nevertheless, gentlemen, do not be-
lieve that your committee, in any circumstance, intrust-
ed to others than its own members the task of direct-
ing the experiments which we witnessed, that any
others than the Reporter held the pen, at any instant;
for the purpose of compiling the minutes of procedure,
and of commemorating the succession of the phenomena
which presented themselves, and exactly as
they pre-
sented themselves. The committee proceeded to fuliil
their duties with the most scrupulous exactness; and
if we render justice to those who assisted us with their
kind co-operation, we must, at the same~ time, destroy
even the slightest suspicion which might arise in your
minds with regard to the share, greater or less, which
others than ourselves may be supposed to have had in
the investigation of this question. Your committee al-
ways snggested the different modes of experimenting;
traced the plan of inquiry, directed the course to be
pursued, followed and described its progress. Ifinally,
in availing ourselves of the services of auxiliaries more
198 APPENDIX, No. 1.
or less zealous and enlightened, we have always been
present, and always impressed our own direction upon
every thing that has been done.
Thus you will see that we admit no experiment made
without the presence of the committee, even
by mem-
bers of the Academy. Whatever confidence the spirit
of confraternity, and the reciprocal esteem with which
we are all animated, ought to establish amongst us, we
felt that in the investigation of a
question of which the
solution is so delicate, we should trust none but our-
selves, and that you could trust only to our guarantee.
From this rigorous exclusion, however, we have thought
proper to except a
very curious phenomenon observed
by M. Cloquet, which we have admitted, because it was
already, in a manner, the property of the Academy,
the Section of Surgery having been occupied in its in-
vestigation at two of its meetings.
This reserve, gentlemen, which the committee im-
posed upon itself, in regard to the use of various facts
relative to the question which we studied with so much
care and impartiality, would give us the right to de-
mand a return of confidence, if any person who had
not witnessed our experiments should he inclined to
raise discussions in regard to their authenticity. For
the same reason that we only demand your confidence
in respect of what we ourselves have seen and done,
we cannot admit that those who, at the same time as
ourselves and along with us, had neither seen nor done,
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 199
can attack or call in question that which we allege to
have observed. And, moreover, as we
always enter-
tained the greatest distrust of the announcenients which
were made to us of wonders to come, and as this feel-
ing constantly predominated during all our
researches,
we think we have some right to require that, although
you may suspend your belief; you will, at least, raise
no doubt in regard to the moral and physical disposi-
tions with which we always proceeded to the observa-
tions of the various phenomena of which we were wit-
nesses.
c
Thus, gentlemen, this Report, which we are far from
presenting to you with the view of fixing your opinion
upon the question of Magnetism, cannot and ought not
to be considered in any other light than as the combi-
nation and classification of the facts which we have hi-
therto observed: We offer it to you as a
proof that we
have endeavoured to justify your confidence; and while
we
regret that it is not founded upon a
greater num-
ber of experiments, we trust that you will receive it
with indulgence, and that you will hear it read with
some interest. At the same time, we think ourselves
bound to mslre you aware, that what we have seen in
the course of our experiments bears no sort of resem-
blance to what the Report of 1784 relates with regard
to the magnetizers of that period. We neither admit
nor
reject the existence of a Huid, because we have not
verified the fact; we do not speak of the baquet,-of
200 APP:-:N DIX, No. 1.
the baguede,-of the chain established by the medium
of a communication of the hands of all the magnetised
patients,-of the application of means prolonged, some-
times during several hours, to the hypochondriac region
and the stomach,-of the vocal and instrumental music
which accompanied the magnetic operations,-nor of
the assemblage of a
greatnumber of people together,
who were
magnetised in the presence of a crowd of
witnesses; because all our experiments were made in
the most complete stillness, in the most absolute silence,
without any accessory means, never
by immediate con-
tact, and always upon a
single person at a time.
We do not speak of that which, in the time of Mes-
mer, was so improperly called the crisis, and which
consisted of convulsions, of laughter, sometimes irre-
pressible, of immoderate weeping, or of piercing cries,
because we have never met with these different pheno-
mena.
In all these respects, we do not hesitate to declare,
that there exists a
very great difference between the
facts observed and decided upon in 1784, and those
which we have collected in the work which we have
the honour to present to you ; that this diE`erence es-
tablishes a most glaring line of demarcation between
the one and the other; and that, if reason has done
justice in regard to a great proportion of the former,
the spirit of observation and research should endeavour
to multiply and appreciate the latter.
V
REPORT ou ANIMAL MAGNI-:'rxsM. 201
It .is with Magnetism, gentlemen, as with manyof
the other operations of nature; that is to say, a certain
combination of conditions is required in_order to the
production of such and such effects. This is an incon-
trovertible principle, which, if it 'required any proof;
might be confirmed by that which takes place in divers
physical phenomena. Thus, without a certain dryness
of the atmosphere, electricity would be but feebly de-
veloped-without_ heat, we should never obtain that
combination of lead with tin, which constitutes the com-
mon solder of the plumbers-without the _light of the
sun, we should not witness the spontaneous combustion
of a mixture of equal parts of chlorine and hydrogen,
&c. &c. Whether these conditions be external or phy-
sical, as in those cases to which we have just referred;
whether they be internal or moral, such as the mug-
netizers allege to be indispensable to the development
of the magnetic phenomena.-it is enoughthat they ex-
ist, and that they should be ercaaed by them, to make
it incumbent upon, your committee to endeavour to
unite them, and to make it their duty to submit to them.
It was, however, neither our duty nor our inclination
to divest ourselves of that indefatigable curiosity which
induced us, at the sametime, to vary our' experiments,
and, if we could, to set at fault the practices and the
promises of the magnetizersf For this double reason,
we conceived ourselves boimd to disburthen ourselves
of the obligation they would impose' of having a strong
202 Arrmmxx, No. 1.
faith, of being animated solely by benevolent motives.
We sought only to be inquisitive, mistrustful, and ex-
act observers.
Neither did we think it our duty to endeavour to
explain these conditions. This would have been i ques=
tion of pm'e controversy, for the solution of which we
had no better means than in attempting to eiplain the
conditions ef other physiological phenomena, such as
those that regulate the action of diferent medicines.
These are questions of the same kind, upon which
science has yet pronounced no judgment.
In all the experiments which we made, we invariably
observed the most rigorous silence, because we con-
ceived that, in the development of phenomena so deli-
cate, the attention of the magnetiaer -and of the mag-
netised ought not to be distracted by any thing foreign.
Besides, we did not wish to incur the reproach of hav-
ing injured the success of the experiment by conversa-
tion or by other distracting causes; and we always
took care that the expression of our countenances should
neither operate as a constraint upon the magnetiser,
nor
inspire doubt into the mind of the person mag-
netised. Our position-we are anxious to repeat it-
was constantly that of inquisitive and impartial ob-
servers. These different conditions, several of which
had been recommended in the works of the respectable
M. Deleuze, having been well established, we proceed
to state what we observed.
nnronr on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 208
The person to be magnetised was placed in a
itsing
posture, either in a convenient elhovwchair, or on s
couch-sometimes even in a common chair.
The magnetizer, seated on s chair a little more ele-
valzd, opposite, and at the distmceof about a foot from
the patient, seemed to collect himself for some moments,
during which he took the thumbs of the patient between
his two lingers, so that the interior parts of the thumhi
were in contact with each other. He fixed his eyes
upon the patient, and remained in this position until he
felt that an equal degree of heat was established be~
tween the thumbs of the magnetiser and the msg-
netised. He then withdrew his hands, turning theni
outward, placed them on the shoulders, where he al#
lowed them to remain about a minute, and conducted
them slowly, by a sort of very slight friction, alohg the
arms to the extremity of the Bngers. This operation
he performed five or six times, which the magnetisers
call a
pass ; he then placed his hands above the head,
held them there a moment, drew them downwards in
front of the face, at the distance of one or two inchei,
to the epigastrium (pit of the stomach), resting his lin-
gers upon this part of the body; and he descended
slowly along the body to the feet. These passes were
repeated during the greater part of the sitting; and
when he wished to terminate it, he prolonged them be-
yond the extremity of the hands and feet, shaking his
lingers each time. Finally, he made transverse paws
204 Arrsunxx, No. 1.
before the face and the breast, at the distance of from
three to four inches, presenting his two hands approxi-
mated to each other, and separating them abruptly.
At other times, he approximated the fingers of each
hand, and presented them at the distance of three or
four inches from the head or the stomach, leaving them
in this position during one or two minutes; then, with-
drawing and approximating them alternately with more
or less rapidity, he imitated the very natural movement
which is performed when we wish to shake off a liquid
which has moistened the extremity of our
fingers.
These diferent modes of operation have been adopted
in all our
experiments, without any preference of the one
to the other. Frequently we employed only one, some-
times two, and in the choice we made, we were never
guided by -the idea that one method would produce an
efect more readily and more
conspicuously than the
other.
In ennmerating the facts observed, yourncommittee
shall not follow precisely the order of time in which
they were collected; it has appeared to them to be
much more convenient, and, above all, much more ra-
tional, to present them to you classified according to
the more or less conspicuous degree of the magnetic
action recognised in each.
We have, therefore, established the following four
divisions:
"ni-:1>oa'r on Azumax. mass:-:'r1sM. 205
I. Magnetism has no effect upon persons in a state
of sound' health, nor upon some diseased persons.
II. In others, its efects' are slight.
III. Theseeifects are sometimes produced by ermui,
by monotony, by the imagination. ,
~
IV. We' have seen them developed independently
of these last causes, most probably as the effect of Mag-
netism alone.
I. Magndinn without q#`eet.-- The Reporter of the
Committee has several times submitted to the operation
of Magnetism. Once, amongst others, while in the
enjoyment of perfect health, he had the patience to re-
main seated in the same
position for a
period of three
quarters of an hour, with his eyes closed, in complete
immobility; and he declares, that, during the operation,
he experienced no kind of effect, although the ennui of
his position, and the absolute silence which he had re-
commended to be. observed, might have been very ca-
pable of producing sleep. M. Demussy submitted to
the same experiment with the same result. At another
time, when the reporter was tormented with very vio-
lent and very obstinate rheumatic pains, he allowed
hirnselfto be repeatedly magnetized, and he never ob-
tained by this means the slightest mitigation, although
the acuteness of his sufferings made him vehemently
desire to have them removed, or at least alleviated.
On the llth of November 1826, our
respectable
806 nrzunlx, No. 1.
~
colleague, M. Bourdois, had experienced, during two
months, an iudisposition which required particular at-
tention, upon his part, to his habitual mode of
This indispositien, he told us, was not his ordinary or
normal state, he knew the cause of it, and could indi-
cate the point from which it proceeded. In these cir-
cumstances, whinix, as M. Dupotet ailirmed, were fa-
vourable to the development of the magnetic pheno-
mena, M. Bourdois was
magnetised by M. Dupotet, in
presence of MM. Itard, Marc, Double, Gueneau, and
the Reporter. The experiment commenced at thirty-
three minutes past three o'clock; the pulse was then at
84, which M. Double and M. Bourdois declared to be
the normal state. At forty-one minutes past three the
experiment terminated, and M. Bourdois experienced
absolutely no efect. We only observed that the pulse
had fallen to 72, that is to say 12 less than beibre the
operation.
At the same
meeting, our colleague, M. Itard, who
had been aiilicted for eight years with chronic rheu-
matism, the seat of which was then in the stomach, and
who was sufering at the time from a recurrent cisis
of the disease (crise laalnluelle attachéed sa maladie-
these are his own expressions), caused himself to be
magnetized by M. Dupotet. At fifty minutes past three
o'clock, his pulse was at 60 ; at iifty-seven minutes past
three he closed his eyes; at three minutes past four
the operation terminated. He told as that, during the
f
nnrowr QN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 207
time he had his eyes open, he thought that he felt the
impression made upon his organs by the passage of the
fingers, as if they had been struck by a blast of warm
air; hut il18¢» after lwvingelosed them, and the expe-
riment continuing, he had no longer the some sensation.
He added, that, at the end of live mimmn, he felt u
headach, which affected all the forehead and the hue
of the orbits, with a sensation of in the tongue,
although when observed by ns, the tongue was very
moist. Finally, he said that the pain which he felt
previous to the operation, and which he had described
as depending upon the aifection of which he complained,
had disappeared, but that it was, in general, very va-
riable. We remarked that the pulse had risen to 74,
that is to say, 14 more than before the operation.
We might certainly have reported other observations
in which magnetism manifested no sort of activity; but
besides the inconvenience of referring to facts unat-
tended with any result, we conceived it suiiicient for
yon to be Hilde acquainted with the experiments which
three of your committee made upon themselves, in order
to have s more complete assurance of the truth of our
investigations.
II. Slight gfect; qf Magnetism.-It cannot have
escaped yen, gentlemen. that the last case in the pre-
ceding series presented a commencement of the mag-
netic action. We have, accordingly, placed it at the
208 APPENDIX, No. I.
"
end of-the section, in order to serve as a link to con-
nect those which are to follow.
M. Magnien, doctor of medicine, aged 54 years, re-
siding in the street St Denis, No. --, walked with
great dillicnlty, in consequence of a fall he had some
years before upon the left knee, and very probably,
also, in consequence of the growth of an aneurism of
the heart, which carried him off in the month of Sep-
tember last. He was magnetized by the reporter upon
the 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22d, and 23d of August-
1826. The number of pulsations was less=at the end
of five sittings, than at the commencement, the pulse
falling from 96 to 90, from 96 to 86, from 76 to 71,
from 82 to 79, from 80 to 78, -and at the sixth sitting,
the number was the same at the commencement and at
the termination, viz. 83. 4
The inspirations were equal,
excepting upon one occasion, when they were 20 at the
beginning, and 26 at the end. M. Magnien constantly
experienced a sensation of coolness in all those parts of
his body to which the lingers of the magnetizer were
directed, and kept for a
long time in the same direc-
tion. _
This phenomenon never once failed to present
itselfi
Our colleague, M. Roux, who complained of a chro-
nic aifection of the stomach, was magnetized six times
by M. Foissac, on the 27th and 29th of September, and
on the lst, 3d, 5th, and 7th of October, 1827. He
experienced, atlirst, a sensible diminution in the num-
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 209
ber of inspirations and pulsations, afterwards, a
slight
degree of heat in the stomach, a
great degree of cool-
ness in the face; the sensation of a
vaporization of
ether, even when no
manipulations were practised be-
fore him, and, finally, a decided disposition to sleep. _
Anne Bonrdin, aged twenty-live years, residing in
the street Du Paon, No.-15, was magnetized on the
17th, 20th, and 21st of July, 1826, at the Hotel-Dieu,
by M. Foissac, in presence of the reporter. This wo-
man said she complained of headach (cephalalgia), and
of a nervous pain which had its seat in the
lei eye. Duringpthe three magnetic sittings, we per-
ceived the inspirations increase from 16 to 89, from 14
to 20, and the pulsations from 69 to 79, from 60 to 68,
from 76 to 95. .The head grew heavy during these
three experiments,-the woman fell asleep for some
minutes,--no change was effected in the nervous pain
of the eye, but the beadach wasalleviated. _
Theresa Tierlin was magnetized on the 22d, 23d,
24th, 29th, and 30th of July, 1826. She had been
admitted into the Hotel-Dieu, complaining of pains in
the belly and in the lumbar region. During the mag-
netic bperations, we observed the inspirations increase
hom 15 to 17, from 18 to 19, from 20 to 25, and de-
crease from 27 to 24; and the pulsatioas increased from
118 to 125, from 100 to 120, from 100 to 113, from
95 to 98, and from 117 to 120. We remarked that
VOL. Il. S
210 nrsunxx, No. 1. _
thh woman seemed to be afraid of the motions of the
fingers and hands of the magnetiler,-that she at-
tempted to avoid them by drawing hack her head,-that
she followed them with her eyes in order that she might
not lose sight of them, as if she dreaded that they would
do her some injury. She was
evidently teased and an-
noyed during the live sittings.
We observed in her frequent and long-drawn sighs,
sometimes interrupted, winking and depression of the
eyelids, rubbing the eyes, repeated deglutition of the
saliva, a motion which, in the case of other magnetised
persons, has constantly preceded sleep, and, finally, the
disappearance of the pain in the lumbar region.
Your Committee, in arranging these diEerent facts,
has only wished to lix your attention upon the series
of physiological phenomena which are developed in the
two last eases. We can attach no
importance what-
ever to the partial amelioration in the morbid symptoms
of the very insignificant disorders of these two women.
If these disorders existed, time and repose may have
triumphed over them. If they did not exist, as is too
frequently the case, the feigned malady might have dis-
appeared as well without Magnetism as with it. Thus,
gentlemen, we have only presented them to you as the
first elements, as it were, of the magnetic action, which
you will see more decidedly manifested in the sequel
of this report.
naroar ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 211
~
III. The anjivquendypioduaed byen-
mvi, by monotony, dnd by the imagination.-Your Com-
mittee has remarked upon several occasions, that the
monotony of the gestures employed, the religious si-
lence observed during the operations, the emmi ocea-
sioned by remaining long in the same position, have
produced sleep in several individuals who were not
subjected to the magnetic influence, but who were in
the same physical and moral circumstances in which
they had been previously set asleep. »
In these cases,
it was
impossible for ns not to recognise the iuiluence
of the imagination; an influence by the force of which
these individuals, believing that they were magnetized,
experienced the same effects as if they really had been
so. We shall adduce, in particular, the following ob-»
servations.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, twenty-tive years of age,
had been for three years slllicted with an affection of
the light (amaurosis), when she was admitted into the
Haul4Dieu. She was
magnetized upon the 7th, 13th,
14th, 'l5th, 16th, 17th, lszh, 19th, 20th, em, and 22d
of -July, 1826. We shall not here repeat the dii¥erent
phenomena which marked the commencement of the
magnetic action, and which we have already detailed in
the preceding section,-such as the winking, the de-
pression of the eyelids, the -rubbing of the eyes as if to
get rid of a
disagreeable sensation, the sudden inclina-
tion of the head and the swallowing ofthe saliva. These,
212 arrnlmx, so. 1.
aswehavealreadysaid, aresignswhichwehaveeon-
stantly observed, and to which, thaefore, we shall not
revert. We shall only observe, that we remarked a
commencement of drowsiness at the end of the third
sitting; that this drowsiness increased until the eleventh;
that, dating from the fourth, there were manifested con-
vulsive motions of the muscles of the neck, of the face,
the hands and the shoulder; and that, at the end of
each sitting, we found a
greater acceleration of the
pulse than at the commencement. But what ought
most to fix your attention is, that after having been
magnetized ten times, and having appeared during the
eight last suwessively more and more susceptible of the
magnetic action, at the eleventh sitting, the 20th of
July, M. Dupotet, her magnetizer, upon the suggestion
of the reporter, seated himself behind her, without
making any gesture, without having any intention of
magnetising her, and that she experienced a more de-
cided tendency to sleep, than upon any of the preced-
ing days, accompanied, however, with less of agitation
and convulsive motions. There was no perceptible im-
provement of her sight since the commencement of the
operations, and she left the Hotel-Dieu in the same state
as when she had been admitted. _
Louisa Ganot, a servant, residing in the street Du
Balloir, No. 19, was admitted into
the Hotel¢Dieu upon
the 18th of July 1826, in order to be treated for a
kucorrluea, and was magnetised by M. Dupotet on the
lu-:ron'r ou ANIMAL naeuzrisu. 213
em, 22.1, 23.1, 24th, 25th, sen., sm, and 28th of Jul y,
l826.» She told us that she_was` subject to nervous
attacks, and; in reality, convulsive motions of an hyste-
rical character were constantly manifested during all the
magnetic sittings. Thus, the plaintive cries, the stiff-
ness and contortion of the superior members, the direc-
tion of the hand towards the pit of the tomach, the
bending of the wholebody backwards; so as' to form
an arch of which the concavity was in the-back, 'some
minutes of sleep which terminated this scene,-all de#
noted in this woman hysterical attacks, occasioned, it
might have been believed, by the magnetic influence.
We wished to ascertain how far the imagination might
act upon her, and at the 6th sitting, upon the ~26th of
July, M. Dupotet, who had hitherto magnetized her;
placed himself in front, at the distance of two feet,
without touching her, without practising any manipula-
tion or external act, but having an energetic intention
of producing in ber some of the magnetic phenomenal
The agitation, the convulsive motions, the long and in-
terrupted sighs, the stifness of the arms, did' not fail
to manifest themselves as at the preceding sittings. on
the day alter, the 27th, we placed M. Dnpotet behind
her, and she was seated in the great elbow-chair which
she had used in the preceding operations. The niag-
netizer merely directed-his fingers opposite the middle
part of her back; wnsequently, the back of the chair was
interposed between the magnetiser and the magnstised.
214 Arran mx, No. 1.
In a short time, the convulsive motions of the pre-
ceding days were displayed with greater violence, and
she fi-equently turned round her head. She told ns
when she awoke, that she had executed this motion, be-
cause it appeared to her that she was
annoyed by some-
thing which acted upon her from behind. Finally,
after having observed, upon the 26th and 27th of July,
the development of the magnetic phenomena, although
in the one case there were no
manipulations at all, but
only the intention, while, in the other, these very simple
external acts (the direction of the fingers) were exe-
cuted behind her back, and without her knowledge;
we were desirous of ascertaining whether the same
phenomena could be reproduced in the absence of the
magnetizer. The experiment was made upon the 28th
of July. She was
placed in precisely the same circum-
stances as in the former experiments,-the same hour
of the day (half-past live in the morning),-the same
locality, the same silence, the same elbow-chair, the
same persons present, the same preparations; all, in
short, exactly the same as on the preceding days, with
the exception of the magnetizer, who remained at home.
The same convulsive motions were evinced, perhaps
with a little less promptitnde and violence, but always
with the same character.
A man
aged 27, subject, since his 15th year, to at-
tacks of epilepsy, was magnetised fifteen times at the
Hotel-Dieu; from the 27th of June to the 17th of July,
1:1-:roar ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 215
1826, by the reporter. Sleep began to appear at the
4th sitting (lst of July), and became stronger at the
5th (2d of the same month). In the following, it was
rather slight and easily interrupted, either by noise, or
by questions put to him. In the 18th and 14th, the
reporter took the precaution to place himself behind
the elbow-chair in which he was seated, and there to
perform his manipulations. At the 15th sitting, upon
the 17th of July, he continued to place the patient, as
in the ease of the woman Ganot, in the same situation
in which he had been placed since the commencement
of the treatment: he also placed himself behind the
elbow-chair, and the same phenomena of drowsiness
were manifested, although he did not magnetise him.
From this series of experiments we found ourselves
necessarily bound to conclude, that these two women
and this epileptic patient experienced the same efects
when they were actually magnetised, and when they
only believed themselves to be so, and that, conse-
quently, the imagination was sullicient to produce in
them phenomena which, with little attention, or with
a
prejudiced mind, might have been attributed to mag-
netism.
But we are anxious to declare, that there are seve-
ral other cases, not less rigorously observed, in which
it would have been dillicalt for us not to admit magne-
tism as the cause of the phenomena. These we place
in our 4th class. -
2l6 arreunlx, No. 1.
IV. Thus, a child of 28 months, subject, like its fa-
ther, of whom we shall have occasion to speak in the
sequel, to attacks of epilepsy, was
magnetised in the
house of M. Bourdois, by M. Foissac, upon the 6th of
October 1827. Almost immediately after the com-
mencement of the treatment, the child rubbed its eyes,
bent its head to one side, supported it upon one of the
cushions of the sofa where we had placed it, yawned,
appeared agitated, scratched its head and its ears, seem-
ed to contend against the approach of sleep, and soon
rose, if we
may be allowed the expression, grumbling ;
it was seized with the desire of maldng water, and,
after being satisfied in this respect, it appeared very
sprightly. We xnagnetised it again ; but as there ap-
peared, this time, no symptom of drowsiness, we ter-
minated the experiment. _
There occurred to us a similar case of a deaf and
dumb lad, eighteen years of age, who had long been
subject to very frequent attacks of epilepsy, and upon
whom M. Itard wished to try the effects of magnetism.
This young man was magnetised fifteen times by M.
Foissac. We need scarcely say here, that the epilep-
tic attacks were entirely suspended during the sittings,__
and that they did not return until eight months after-
wards-acircnmstance unprecedented in the history
of his disease; but we shall observe, that the appre-
ciable phenomena exhibited by this young man during
the treatment were a heaviness of the eyelids, a
ge-
REPORT on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 217
neral numbness, a desire to sleep, and sometimes ver-
Hw-
' '
A still more decided elfect was observed in 'a mem-
ber of the committee, M. Itard, who, as we have al-
ready observed, had submitted to the magnetic treat-
ment on the llth of November 1826, without having
experienced any efect. VVheli magnetised by M. Du-
potet on the 27th _of Dctober 1827, he experienced a
heaviness without sleep, a decided sensation of a
pecu-
liar nature-a setting on edge (agacement) in the
nerves of the face, convulsive motions in the nostrils,
inthe muscles of the face and jaws, and a flow of sa-
liva of a_ metallic taste-5a sensation analogous to that
which he had experienced from galvauism. The two
first sittings produced headach, which lasted several
hours, and, at the same time, his habitual pains were
considerably diminished. A year afterwards, M. Itard,
who had pains in the head, was magnetised eighteen
times by M. Foissac. The treatment almost constantly
produced a How of saliva, twice with a metallic Bavour.
We observed little motion and muscular contraction,
excepting some twitchings (soubreaauts, aubsultus) of
the tendons of the muscles of the foreéarms and the
legs. M. Itard told us that his headach ceased each
time, aher a treatment of from 12 to 15 minutes, that
it entirely disappeared by the 91211 sitting, when it was
recalled by an interruption of the magnetic operations
vox.. xl. 'r
218 arrmtmx, no. 1.
-for three days,and again dinipatedbythe same means.
He experienced during the treatment s sensation of
general health, an agreeable disposition te sleep, som-
nolency accompanied with vague and plealnt revesiaa.
His plaint underwent, as before, a sensible amelio-
ration, which, however, was not of long duration aher
he ceaed to be magnetised. »
'
_
These three cases appearedtoyour Committee to
'be altogether worthy of remark. The two individuals
who formed the subject of the two first-the onea
child of 28 months, the other a deaf and dumb lad-
vere
ignorant of what was done to them. 'l'he one,
indeed, was not in a state capable offlrnowing it; and
the other never had the slightest idea of magnetism.
Both, however, were sensible of its indnenee; and most
'certainly it is impossible, in either case, to attribute
this sensibility to the Still less is is attri-
butable to this principle in the case of M. Itard.
It is not over men of our years, and, like us, always
on their guard against mental error and sensible de-
lusion, that the imagination, sach as we view it, has
any sway. ~At this period of life, it is enlightened by
reason, and disengaged from those illusions by which
young 'persons are soeasily seduced. At this age we
stand upon our guard, and distrust, rather than confi-
dence, presides over the diferent- operations of our
minds. 'I`hese circumstances were happily united in
our colleague; and the Academy lmows him too well
amronr on ANIHAL Maeunrxsm. 219'
not to admit that he mally experienced what he de-f
clares that he felt. His veracity was the same upon-
the lltlf of October' 1826, when .he declared that' he
felt nothing, and upon the 27th of October 1827, when
he airmed to nsthat he was sensible of the magnetic
The somnolency observed in the three cases which
we have just reported appeared to us w»be the tiinsi-
tion from the waking to' that which is called the
magnetic 'sleep, or sonuambnlism-'words which
Committee have deemed improper, its they
riseto' fslseldeas; bnt which we have been forced to
adoptyin oonseqnenceof the impossibility of changing
themsvith advantage.
`
-
~ ~
' -*'~
When 'the' individual 'subjected to the operation* of
magnetismiisin the state' of somrnambulism, the mag#
netisers assure us, that, in general, he only hears those'
persons who- have been placed in magnetic -connexion
(en rapport)fwith him, either theiperscirwho operates
upon him, oifthose whom the operator has placed -in
communication with him, by means of joining hands,
or some species of .immediate contact. According to
them, the external organs of the senses become wholly,
or
wholly, dormant (asampis), and, notwith-
standing, he experiences sensations. They add, that
more sppegnztq ye awakened in him an imma
a
species of instinct which explains to him, sometimes
the state of his own health, sometimes that of other
220 arrsunlx, No. |.
pssous with whom 'he is plaeed in magnetic eonnexion-
(en rapport). During the whole duration of this sin-
gular shte,he is,eaytbey,suhjeeted to the inlueuee
ofhismagnetisenandappeantooheyhimwithau
nnreserved docility, without my strung
exertion of intemsl volition, either by gestures or
words- '
This singular phenomenon, gentlemen, appeared to
your Committee to be an the more
worthy of
their attention and investigation, hemuse, although Ms
Bailly seems to have hadaglimpse of it, itwas still
unknown at the when the of suilml
magnetism was submitted to the examination of the
Commissioners, who presented their Report upon it in
1784; and, besides, it was for the purpose of studying
it that M. Foissac had, if we
may use the expression,
dieinterred the question of magnetism. It was
only in
1784, after the publication of the Report of the Com-
missioners, that this phenomenon was observed for the
first time at Bnzancy, near Soissons, by one of the
most zealous disciples and promoters of animal magne-
tism, M. de Pnysegur.
° "
Maguetised persons," says the illustrious and unforhxnste Bailly,
at the 7th page of his celebrated report presented to the Royal Aude-
my of Sciences in 1784,
"
may appear tobe plunged into estate of
total insensibility; but the voice of the msgnetiser, his look, a
revives them; and we cannot hesitate to recognise in these invarishle
eieeu a great indnenee whieh acts upon the patients, governs them,
and of which thsmagnetiser appears to be the depositary.
"
nl-:roar on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. -221
Upon a
subject which might so
easily he get up hy
quackery, and which appeared to us so remote from all
that was previously known, your- Committee felt that
they were hound to he very rigid respecting the kind
of evidence admitted to prove the phenomenon, and, at
the same time, that they ought to keep themselves
continually upon their guard against that illusion and
imposture of which they might dread being made the
dupes.
°
The Committee request your attention to the follow-
ing cases; in the arrangement of which it has been
their ohject, that the development of this singular
state, and the manifestation of the phenomena which
characterize it, might he presented to you in a
regu-
larly increasing progression, so as to become more and
more evident.
Mademoiselle Louisa Delaplane, aged 16 years, re-
siding in the street Tirechape, No. 9, had a catamenial
suppression, accompanied with pains, and with tension
and swelling in the lower part of the abdomen, when
she was admitted into the Hotel-Dieu, on the 13th of
June 1826. Leeches applied to the labia valve, baths,
and, in general, an appropriate treatment, producing no
relief; she was magnetised hy M. Foissac on the 22d,
23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th of June 1826.
She fell asleep at the iirst sitting, at the end of eight
minutes. She was spoken to, hut made no answer; a
white iron screen was thrown down near her-she
222 APPENDIX, No. 1.
continued in a state of complete insensibility; a
glass
bottle was forcibly broken-she awoke with a start.
At the second sitting, she answaed by alhrmative
andnegativemotionsofthehesdtothequestions
whichwere sddrossedtoher. Atthe third,sbe gave
ustounderstand, that,in two dsys, shewould speak
md point out the nature and seatof her
She was pinched very strongly, so .as to produce
e livid mark-she gave no sign of sensibility. A
hottliul of ammoniac was opened under her nose.
She was insensible to the iirst inspiration--at the se-
cond, she carried her hand to.her nose. When she
awoke, she complained of psin in the pert which had
been pinched, as also of the fumes of the ammonisc,
and she drew back her head hurriedly. The. parents
of this girl resolved to remove her from the Hotel-
Dieu on the 80th of the same month, bemnse they
heard that she was subjected to the magnetic treatment.
She was still, however, magnetised three or four times.
In the course of these experiments she never once
spoke, and answered only by signs to the different ques-
tions addressed to her. We shall add that, insensible
to the tickling of a feather introduced inte her nostrils,
moved along her lips and the sides of her nose, and to
the noise of a board thrown suddenly upon a table, she
was awakened by the noise of a copper basin thrown
against the iioor, and at the noise of a bag of crowns
which was emptied from above into the same basin.
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
'
223
At another time, upon the 9th of December 1826,
M. Dnpotet, in presence of the Committee, magnetised
Baptiste Chamet, carman at Charonne, whom he had'
magnetised two or three years before. =At-the end of
eight minutes, repeatedly interrupted in order to ss-
eertain from him whether he was aleep, he suddenly:
made hn allinnative motion of the head/ Several ques-
tions were put to him without obtaining "aa answer;
As he seemed to suffer pain, he was asked what ailed
him, when he pointed with his hand to his breast. He
was again -asked what part that was. He answered
that it was the liver, still pointing to his breast.
`
M.
Gnersent pinched him severely on
the left wrist, and
he manifested no sense of pain. We opened his 'eye-
lid, which, with diiculty, yielded to our' attempts, and
we found the ballof the eye turned, as if convulsively,
towards the top of the orbit, and the pupil perceptibly
In these two last cases, your Committee witnessed
the Iirst appearance of somnambulism-of that faculty
by meansef which the magnetisers say, that, in .the
dormantstate of the external organs of sense, there' is
developed in the persons magnetised an internal sense;
and a species of instinct capable of. manifesting them-
selves by rational external actions. In each of the
cases above reported, your Committee perceived-
whether in the answer given to questions put either-by
signs or by words, or in the prognostications, always
224 Arrzumx, No. 1.
deceitful, indeed, of events which never took place-
the iirst traces of the expression of a commencement
of intelligence.
The three following cases will prove to you with
what distrust we
ought to regard the promises of cer-
tain pretended semnambulists.
Mademoiselleulosephine Martineau,` aged 19°years,
residing in the street St Nicolas, No. 37; had been af-
fected fer three months with a chronic inflammation of
the bowels (gastritis), when she was admitted into the
Hotel-Dieu, upon the 5th of August 1826. She was
magnetised by M. Dupotet, in presence of the reporter,
liheen days consecutively, from the 7th to the 21st of
thesame month, twice between four and tive in the
afternoon, and thirteen times from six to seven in the
morning. She began to sleep at the second sitting,
and at the fourth, to answer the questions which were
addressed to her. We need not repeat to you, that at
the end of each sitting, the pulse was more frequent
than at the commencement, and that she preserved no
recollection of any thing that took place during her
sleep. These are ordinary phenomena, which have
been previously well established by other magnetizers.
Our business here is with somnambulism, and it is this
phenomenon which we endeavoured to observe in Ma-
demoiselle Martineau. In her sleep, she said that she
did not see the persons present, but that she heard
them; and no
person was speaking. When cross-iu-
anroar ON ANIMAL HAGNETISM. 225
terrogated about 'this matter, she 'answeredfthar she
heard them when a noise was made._ She said"that
she would not recover until she was purged; and for
this she prescribed three ounces of mauna, and English
pills to be taken two hours aher the manna. The 'next
and following days, the reporter gave her no manna,
but administered four pills ofthe 'crumb of breadin
two days. During these two days she had four stools.
She said that she would soon' awalxe after five or ten
minutes' sleep, and she did not awake uutilaher se-
venteen and sixteen. She announced that, upon a"cer-
tain 'day, 'she would give us a detailed account of the
nature of her complaint; and whenthe day arrived,
she told us
nothing. In short, she was at fault every
time.
M. de Geilin, residing in me meet de Gfmzle se
Honoré, No. 87, wrote to inform the Committee, on the
8th of July 1826, that he had at his disposal a som-
nambulist, Mademoiselle Couturier, lace-maker, aged
30 years, residing in the same house with himself; who,
amongst other faculties, possessed that of being able to
read the thoughts of her msgnetizer, and to execute
the orders which he communicated to her mentally.
The proposal of M. de Geslin was too important not
to be accepted with eagerness. M. Gueneau 'and the
reporter waited upon M. de Geslin, who repeated the
assurances which he had given us in his letter relative
to the surprising' faculties of his somnambulist; and
226 arrnnnxx, No. 1.
lffdr having set her asleep` by the process we have al-
readydescrihed, he requested themto inform himwhat
they wished ,him to require, mentally, of his somnam-
iilllilt-_ .
_Que of us-the reporter-placed himself at s desk,
for the purpose of writing down withthe utmost ex-
actness every thing that might occur; and the other,
M. Gueneau, undertook tom-ize_ upon slips of paper.
which hecommunicated to his_ colleague, the orders
which_we'both wished to be communicated to the.pa~
tient. _
4
_
_
Upon the first slip of paper, M. Gueneau wrote the
following words: Go and sit down upon tlledool in
_#ont cfthepiano. M. de Geslin having conceived this
mentally, told the somnamhnlist to do that which he
required of her. She rose from har place, and going
up to the clock, she said it was
twenty minutes past
nine. M. de Geslin told her that was not
what he _re-
quired her to do; she than went into the next room.
She was informed that she was still mistakenwhen she
resumed her place. She was mental1y_bid to scratch
her fmhe»a.` she stretched owner hand, but did not
execute the motion required. The magnetizer com-
plained that she did not do what he desired her: She
rose and changed her seat. We requested that, when
M. de Geslin held up his hand, she should hold up hers,
and keep it suspended until that of the magnetizer fell.
She raised her hand, which remained immoveable, and
»
neronr on sumu. nsennrzsm. 227
and did not fall until live minutes after that of Mrde
Geslin. The back of a watch was presented .to her-
she said itwas thirty~|ive minutes put nine, and the
hand pointed at seven o'cloclr£ She said there were
threehends, Ind there were only two.' 'A watch with
three hsnds was substituted, and= she -ssid there were
two-thstfit was
forty minutes past nine; while the
whtclr indicated twenty-live minutes past nine. She
me
placedenragzortwith M. Gneneau,'nnd toldhim
enumberof things. srithregerd to the state of his own
health which were 'altogether erroneous, and in direct
contradiction to what our colleague had written upon
this subjed before the experiment. To_sum up ell, this
lady did not fulfil any of the promises which had been
made to us ; -and we
thought ourselves authorised to
believe, that M. de Geslin had not taken all the propd'
precautions to prevent being led into errm-,'nnd'th.st
this 'was the eeuse of his belief in the extraordinary
fiicultiee he sttribntedto his patient-faculties which
we could- in nofdegree recognise.
'
~~M.=Chepel|in,~~doctor' of medicine, residing in the
Cour Babes, No.'8; informed the Committee, upon
the 14th of Merch 1828, that e women of 24 years of
age, his honse, and who had been recom»
mended to him by om' colleague M. Caille, had nn-
nouneed, when set asleep by the magnetic process, that
next day, at fifteen minutes from eleven in the even-
ing, as taihms produdiorembmdiio qbcturann cus. Your
228 nraumx, no. 1.
Committee had too great a desire to witness the result
of this annunciation, to neglect the opportunity thus
presented. Accordingly, MM. ltard, Thillaye, and the
reporter, accompanied by two members of the Acade-
my, MM. Caille and Virey, as also Doctor Dance, at
present physician to the hospital Cochin, repaired next
day, at iifty-live minutes past ten in the evening,
to the house of this woman. She was
immediately
magnetised by M._Chapelain, and set asleep at eleven
o'clock. (Hereanomiltedsonseindclécata ddails,qfIit¢Is
ornoinportunoeintlaeanselves, andonlyshewingtlwjis-
lilily qf t/acpatiusfs pmgnosis.) Here, then, are three
cases, well established, and we might quote others, in
which there evidently was error, or an attemptto de-
ceive, on the part of the somnambulists, either in what
they promised to do, or in their annunciations of what
was to happen.
In these circumstances, we
ardently desired to eluci-
date the question, and we
thought that it was essential,
as well to the interest of the investigations in which we
were
engaged, as to withdraw ourselves from the de-
ceptions of quackery, to ascertain whether there -was
any sign by which we could be assured of the real ex-
istence of somnambulism; that is to say, whether the
magnetised person, when asleep, was-permit us the
expression-more than-asleep, whether he had arrived
at the state of somnambulism,
M. Dupotet, whom we
haye already mentioned se-
nnronvr on Amman Msem-:'rxsM. 229
veral times, proposed, on the l4th'of November 1826,
to make your committee witnesses of certain experi-
ments, in which he should reduce the question with re-
gard to the magnetic somnambnlism toan absolntecer-
tainty. He undertook, and we have his promise to
this elfect under his own hand, to. produce at pleasure,
and out of sight of those individuals whom he had
placed in a state of somnambulism, 'convulsive motions
in any part of-their bodies, by merely' directing his lin-
ger towards that part. These convulsions he regarded
as an
unequivocal sign of the existence of somnambu-
lism. Your committee took advantage ofthe presence
of5Baptiste Chamet, already mentioned (page 228), to
make experiments upon him, for the purpose-of eluci-
dating this question. Accordingly, M. Dnpotet having
placed this person in a state of somnambulism, directed
the point of one of his fingers towards thoseof Chamet,
or
approximated mem with s metallic rod: No convul-
sive efectewas produced. A iinger of the magnetizer
was_again_ directed towards those of the patient, and
there_W2S perceived, in the fore and middle Engers of
both, hands, a slight motion, similar to thist produced
by the galvanic pile. Six minutes alterwards, the lin-
ger of the magnetizer, directed towards the left wrist
of the patient, impressed upon it a
complete convulsive
motion; and the magnetizer then informed ns, that in
five minutes laeshoulddoalltlaathepleaud
M. Marc then, placing himself behind the patient, indi-
280 _
Arr:-zumx, No. 1.
cated that the magnetiser should endeavour to act upon
ow fm-aught of the right hand: He directed llll owne
fore-linger towards this part, and the convulsions took
place in the left, and in the thighofthe eameside. Ai
alater period,the lingers were directed towards the
toes, but no eifect was produced. Some anterior ma#
nipulations were performed. MM. Bourdois, Guer-
sent, and Gueneau de Many, successively directed their
lingers towards those of the patient, which became con-
tracted at their approach. At a later period, motions
were perceived in the left hand, towards which, hew-
ever, no
linger was directed. Finally, weenspended
all ,our experiments,`in order to ascertain whether the
convulsive motions did not take place when the patient
was not magnetised; and these motions were renewed,
but more feebly. Hence your committee, concluded,
that the approximation of the-lingers of the
was not necessary for the production of the convulsiom,
although M. Dupotet_ added, that, when they have once
commenced, they may he reproduced of themselves.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, of whom we have already
spoken (pagfe 211), when treating~of` the iadnence of
the imagination in producing the magnetic phenomena,
also presented an instance of~this convulsive mobility,
but sometimes' these motions, pretty similar in
ness to those experienced from the approach of an elec-
tric spark, took place in a in consequence
of the-approximation of the ingers, sometimes, also, in-
nr-:Pom ON Annan. MAGNETISM. 281
dependently of this condition. Sometime# too; we
perceived them take place at s greater or less
of time after the attempt made to excite- them. Some-
times this 'phenomenon took pleeeseversl times stole
sitting;' sometimes it' did not' once "mike its -eppesrsnoe ;
md sometimes thenpproximation of the lingers towards
one part was followed by.eonvnlsions'in»siiother. V
~
M. Chnles, French v0onsul'et`0desse, .furnished ns
with another eiample o£ this phenomenon. M.: Dope#
tet magnetised him in our presence, on the 17tli of=No~
vember 1826. He direotedihis Eager towards the loft
ear, end immediately 'we perceived rrnotion imthehslr
behind the fear, which was ascribed to s eontradtien of
thewnuoles of- that region. The manipulations were
renewed with :single hand, 'without directing the Eir-
ger towards the ear,-end we perceived in the ear age-
nenl and lively= ascending motioni- The inger'=was
then -directed towards the same ear, and no efed wss
Pl'0d1100@ .
'~ '~ -
i
'
-
'
=* 1
It wsrprineipelly in 'the case of M. Petit; tutor
firutiadaurj' st Athis, sged 82 years, that the convul-
sive motionlwere developedwith the greatest precision
by approaching the Gngers of themsgnetiser. 'M. Dn-
potet presented him- to: the committee Iipon the 10th of
Angust 1828, informing-them -thst>this Mn Petit was
very nsoeptible- of `semn|mhu]:isin, ind when ein
this=stite,lé, M.=Dpete0;»eonlvd st_piehsere,f and with-
out speaking, by the mere spproximetion of his ing-ers,
282 APPENDIX, No. 1.
produce visible convulsive motions in those parts which
the committee should point out by writing. The pa-
tient was
very speedily set asleep, and then the com-
mittee, in order to prevent all suspicion of collusion,
handed over to M. Dupotet a note written at the mo-»
ment
in silence, in which they pointed out the particu-
lar parts which they wished to be convulsed. Provid-
ed with these instructions, he iirst directed his hand to-
wards the left wrist, which became convulsed; he then
placed himself behind the patient, and directed his lin-
ger first towards the left thigh, then towards the left
elbow, and, at last, towards, the head. 'l"hese three
parts almost immediately became couvulsed. M. Du-
potet directed his left leg towards that of the patient,
which became so much agitated that he was upon the
point of falling. M. Dnpotet then directed his foot to-
wards M. Petit's right elbow, which became agitated ;
he afterwards carried his foot towards the elbow and
the left hand, and very strong convulsive motions were
developed in the whole upper part of the body. One
of' the committee, M. Marc, in order still farther to pre-
vent every kind of deception, put a
bandage upon the
eyes of the patient, and the same
experiments were re-
peated with a slight diiference in the result. After
instantaneous mimic signal from one or two of ns, M.
Dupotet directed his foot towards the leii: hand: at its
approach both hands became agitated. We desired
that the action should be carried at
once to the two in-
1u=:Poa'r on ANIMAL Maemvrxsu. 283
ferior members. At Erst, the fingers were approxi-
mated without any-result. Soon afterwards, the som-
nambulist first moved his hands, then drew back, then
moved his feet. A few moments later, the finger ap-
proximated to the hand, made it draw back, and pro-
duceda general agitation. MM. Thillaye and Marc
directed their fingers towards several parts of the body,
and excited some convulsive motions. Thus, M. Petit
was
always affected with these convulsive motions, up-
on the approximation of the fingers, whether he had or
had not a bandage upon his eyes; and these motions
were more decided when there was directed towards
the parts subjected to experiment a
piece of metal, such
as a key, or the branch ofa pair of spectacles. To sum
up the whole, your committee, although they have witQ
nessed several cases in which this contractile faculty
has been put in play by the approximation of the fingers
or
pieces of metal, have
need of new facts in order to
enable. them to appreciate this phenomenon, upon the
constancy and importance of which they do not con-
ceive themselves suiciently informed 'to entitle them
topronounce a decided opinion.
Reduced, in consequence, to the necessity of relying
upon our own unceasing watchfulness, we pursued our
researches, and multiplied our observations, with re-
doubled care, attention, and distrust.
Perhaps, gentlemen, you may remember the experi-
vol.. n.
~
.
U
i
284 nrznnxx, No. x.
ments which were made in 1820, at the Haul-Dieu, in
presenw of a great number of physicians, some of whom
are members of this Academy, and under the eyes of
the Reporter, who alone conceived the plm of them,
directed the details, and consigned them, minute #ROI
minute, to apropés~unbal, which was subscribed by each
of the assistants., :Perhaps we abould have abstained
from alluding to them upon the present occasion, had
it not been for a particular circumstanemwhich rmdera
it imperative upon us to break silence. You may re-
collect that, in the midst of theediscussiona which were
excited in the bosom of the Academy, in consequence
of the proposal to submit Animal Magnetism to a neyn
investigation, a member, who, however, did .not deny
the reality of the magnetic phenomena, amrmed that,
while the magnetiaers proclaimed the cure of Madew
moiselle Sanson, aherequested of_ him to be again ad-
mitted into the Hotel-Dieu, where, he added, she died.
in consequence of an organic _lesion which the physi-n
ciane deemed incurable. _
I
_
Nevertheless, this same Mademoiselle Sanson re-ap-
peared, six years after her pretended death, and your
committee, assembled on the 29th of, December 1826,
fer the purpose of making experiments upon ber, were
desirous of ascertaining, first of all, whether the indi-
vidual presented to tbemyby My Dllpotet, -whose good.
faith mn, moreoter,P21'fB¢|y well known to them, was
the identical person, who, nine years before, bad been
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
mugnetised at the :Hotel-Dieu. MM. Bricheteau and
Pstissier, _who had been present at these first experi-
ments, had the .goodness to comply with the requestfof
the committee, and, _conjointly with the Reporter, they
certified by a writing. which they signed, that it was the
same person who had been the subject oii the experi-
ments msde in the Hotcl~D|bu in 1820, and that they
perceived no other change in her than that which indi-i
cated s sensible amelioration of her health. _
The ,identity having been thus verified, Mademoiselle
Ssnson was magnetised by M. Dupotet in- presence of
thecommittee- The manipulations had scarcely com-
menced, when
Mademoiselle Sanson became restless,-
rnbbed her eyes, expressed impatience, complained,
coughed with a hoarse voice, which recalled to the re-»
collection of MM..Brichetean, Patissier, _and the Re-
porter, me same sound of voiee which had mek them
in 1890, and which then, as upon the present occasion,
pointed out to them the commencementof the magnetic
action. _Soon alter, she stamped withher foot, support-
edher held upon her righnlland, which rested upon
the elbow-chair, and appeared to fall nleep. We raised
her eyelid, and perceived, as in 1820, the ball of the
eye tumed cenvulsively upwards. .Several questions-
were addressed to her, and remained unanswered; then,
when new, ones were put, she exhibited sigusof impa-A
tience, and said with ill humour that we ought not to
annoy her. At length, without having intimated his
236 srranmx, No. x.
intention to any one, the 'Reporter threw down upon
the Boot a table and a billet of wood which hehd
placed upon it. Some of those present uttered a
cry
of terror,-Mademoiselle Sauson alone heard nothing,
made no sort of motion, and continued to sleep shes' as
before the sudden and violent noise. She was awakened
four minutes afterwards, by rubbing her eyes in a cir-
cular manner with the thumbs. The same billet was
then suddenly thrown upon the iloor; the noise made
her start now that she was awake, and she complained
bitterly of the fright that had been given her, although
six minutes before she had been insensihle to a much
greater noise. -
You have all likewise heard of a case, which, atthe
time, attracted the attention of the Surgical Section, and
which was communicated to it at the meeting of the 16th
of April 1829, by M. Jules Cloquet.
'
Your committee
have thought it their duty to notice it here, as aford-
ing one of the most unequivocal proofs of the power of
the magnetic sleep. The case is that of a lady, P--,
aged sixty-four years, residing in the street of St Denis,
No. 151, who consulted M. Cloquet, upon' the 8th of
April 1829, on account of an ulcerated cancer on the
right breast, of several years' standing, which was com-
bined with a considerable swelling (engorgement) of
the corresponding 'axillary gauglions. M. Chapelain,
the ordinary physician attending this lady, who had'
magnetized her for some months, with the intention,
narowr ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 237
as he said, of dissolving the swelling (engorgévnenl) of
the breast, had obtained no other result than that of
producing a most profound sleep, during which all sen-
sibility appeared to'be annihilated, while the ideas re-
tained all their cleamess; He proposed to' M. Cloqnet
to operate upon her while she was
plunged in this mag-
netic sleep. The latter having deemed the operation
indispensable, consented. 'The two previous evenings,
this lady' was' magnetized several times by M. Chape~,
lain, who, in her somnambnlism, disposed her to sub-
mit to the operation,-who had even led her to con-
verse about it with calmness, although, when awake,
she rejected the idea with horror. ,
Upon the day fixed on for thezoperation, M. Clo-
quet arriving at half-past ten in the morning, found the
patient dressed and seatedeon an elbow-chair, in the at-
titude of a
person enjoying a quiet natural sleep. She
had returned about an hour before from mass, which
she attended regularly at the same hour. Since her
return, M. Chapelain had placed her in a state of mag-
netic sleep, and she talked with great calmness of the
operation to which she was about to submit. Every
thing having been arranged for the operation, she un-
dressed herselfi and sat down upon a' chair.
`
M. Chapelain supported the right arm, the left was
permitted to hang down at`the side of the body; M.
Pailloux, house pupil of the Hospital of St Louis, was
employed to present the instruments, and to make the
ligatnres. A Srst incision, commencing at the arm-pit
288 APPENDIX, No. 1.
was continued beyond the tumour as fx' as the internal
surface of the breast. The second commenced at the
same point, separated the tumour from beneath, and
was continued until it met the first. The -swelled'
ganglions (ganglabns mgorgés) were with
precaution on account of their vicinity to the axillary
artery, and the tumour was extirpated. The operation'
lasted from ten to twelve minutes.
_
During all this time, the patient continued to con-
verse quietly with the operator, and did not exhibit the
slightest sign of sensibility. There was no motion oi'
the limbs or of the features, no
change in the respira-
tion nor in the voice, no emotion even in the pulse.
The patient continued in the same state of automatic
indiference and impassibility, in which she was some
minutes before the operation. There was no occasion!
to hold, but only to support her. A ligature was
ap-
plied to the lateral thoracic artery, which was open
during the extraction of the ganglions. The wound
was united by means of adhesive plaster, and dresseds
The patient was
put to bed while still in a state of som¢
nambulism, in which she was left for forty-eight hours.
An hour after the operation, there appeared a slight
hemorrhage, which was attended with no consequence.
The iirst dressing was taken oh' on the following Tues-
day, the 14th,-the wound was cleaned and dressed
anew-_the patient ekhibited no
sensibility nor pain-
the pulse preserved its usual rate.
'
nnronr ou ANIMAL Macs:-:'r1s1r. 239
After this dressing, M. Chapclain awakened the pa-
tient, whose somnambulic sleep had continued. from an
hour previous to the operation, that is to say, for two
days. This lady did not appear to have any idea, any
feeling, of what had passed in the interval; but upon
heing informed of the operation, and seeing her children
around her, she experienced a
_very lively emotion,
which the magnetizer checked by immediately setting
her asleep.
»
'
In these two cases, your committee perceived the
most evident proof of the annihilation of sensibility
during somnambulism; and we declare, that, although
we did not witness the last, we
yetgiind it impressed
with such a character of truth, it has been attested and
repeated. to us
by so
good an observer, who had com-
municated it to
the Surgical Section, _that we have no
fear in presenting it to you as the most incontestahle
evidence _of that state of torpor and inseusibility which
is produced by Magnetism! .»
'
ni M. Chardelk Ewa de Psychologie Phyfwzogequ, to 'meh
the render il referred, there will be found a number of additional enri-
ous particnlars respecting this very extraordinary case. In a note
(p. 261), M. Chardel also gives a short account of mother case, in
which a
surgical operation was performed upon s somnambulist, in a'
similar state of insensibility.
John l-, farmer, had an abscess in the internal and upper part
of the thigh; the operation required prudence, as the crursl artery
eroned the tumour. Count B- placed the patient in a state of
magnetic somnamhulism, and produced complete insensibility. The
operstim was
performed in the house of the Juge de Paix of the Can-
ton of Condom, department of Gers, in the presence of several distin-
240 nrsnnix, No. 1.
In the midst of the experiments in which your com-
mittee sought to appreciate the faculty of setting in
motion, without contact, the contractility of the muscles
of M. Petit of Athis (page 146), other attempts w,ere
made upon him with the view of observing the lucidity
(clairvqi/ance), that is, the power of seeing through the
closed eyelids, which he was said to possess during
somnamhulism. ,
The magnetizer informed us that his somnambulist
would recognise, among twelve pieces of coin, that
which he M. Dupotet had held in his hand. The re-
porter placed there a crown of iive francs, of the coin-
age of 1818, and afterwards mixed it with twelve others,
which he arranged in a circle upon a table. M. Petit
pointed out one of these pieces, but it was of the coin-
age of 1812. Afterwards, we presented to him a
watch, the hands of which we had deranged, in order
that they might not point out the actual hour of the
day; and twice, consecutively, M. Petit was mistaken
in attempting to point out their direction. An attempt
was made to explain these mistakes, by telling us that
M. Petit had lost some of his lucidaly since he had been
less frequently magnetized; however, at the same sit-
ting, the reporter engaged with him in a
game of pi-
quet, and frequently attempted to deceive him hy an-
nouncing one card or one colour instead of another;
guished persons, by Dr Lar..., and is reported in the Journal of Tou-
louse.-Note by the Translator.
nrzrowr on ANIMAL uaennrrsu. 24,1
but the had faith of the reporter did not prevent M.
Petit from playing correctly, or from ascertaining the
colour of his adversary's point. We should add, that
each time that we
interposed a
body-a sheet of paper
or
pastehoard-between the eyes and the object to be
perceived, M. Petit could distinguish nothing.
~
If these experiments had been the only ones in which
we had sought to recognise the faculty of lucidity
fclairvoyuncej, we should have been led to conclude
that this somnambnlist did not possess it. But this
faculty 'appeared in all its clearness in the following
experiment; and upon this occasion, the success en-
tirely ju tiiied the expectations held out to' ns
by M.
Dupotet. ,
-
M. Petit was magnetised'on the 15th of March 1826,
at halfipasteight in the evening, and set asleep in about
one minute. The president' of the committee, M. Bour-
dois, ascertained that the number of pulsations, since he
was set asleep, diminished at the rate of 22 in aminute,
and that there was even some
irregularity in the pulse.
M. Dupotet, after having put a
bandage upon the eyes
of the somnambulist, repeatedly directed towards him
the points of his lingers, at the distance of about two
feet. Immediatelya violent contraction was perceived
in the hands and arms towards which the action was
directed. M. Dupotet having, in a similar manner, ap-
proximated his feetto those of M. Petit, always with-
VOL. n.
'
x
24-2 APPEI mx, No. 1.
out contact, the letter quickly wilidrew Hs. He UMI-
plained of grestpein and a hrlilgiilsthelillh,
towards wlsih the setionlmd been directed. H. Bour-
dcis endeavoured to produce the same eiecte; and he
succeeded, but less promptly, and in a more Behle de-
gn-ee.
This point being established, we pmeeeded to steer-
taiu the lucid'ity(eIaimq|/ance) ofthe somnsmbulist. He
having declared that he could notseewitlrtle buhge,
it was taken of; but then wedeterlinedtosssureour-
selives that the eyelids were exactly closed. For this
purpose, a candle was almost constantly held, during
the experiments, Before the eye; of M. Petit; at a dis-
tance of one or two inches; and several persona had
their eyes- continually ized upon his. None of us could
perceive the slightest separation of the eyelids. Mr
Ribes, indeed, remarked that their edges were per-
imposed so that the eye-lashes crossed each other.
We also examined the state of the eyes, which were
forcibly opened without awakening the somnambulist ;
and we remarked that the pupil was turned down-
wards, and directed towards the great angle of the
eye.
After these preliminary observations, we proceeded
te' verify the phenomena o£ vitiomwith the eyes dosed.
Mr Rilses, member of tho' Academppresmted a eata~
logne whhh his took from his pocket. The sonnsm-
laulist, after tome eforts which seemed to fatigue him,
1u~:1>o1vr on emma. HSGNETISM. 243
I
read very distinctly the words, Lamar. Il cdbka di/1
_hilade oonnadre Iss laommes. The last words were printed
in' very small characters. A passport wa
placed URM
his eyes; he rewgnised it," and called it a
penn-lcomnw.
Some moments afterwards, a port d'armes wt substi-
tuted, which we all lcnow to be in almost all reqects
similar to a passport, and the bleak side of it wee pre-
sented to him. M. Petit, at first, could* only moognise
that it was of 5 'particular Iigure, and very like the for-
mer. A lbw moments afterwards, he wld us vhdit
was, arid reed' distinctly the words; Dc par Ie rbi, nd
ontl1elefl,port»Jarm¢s. Again; hewse slrewn-in open
letter; he declared that he could not read it, ulsid
B0tKhlDdEI'g|iBllL Infactitwesau English
letter.
M. Bourdnis took from his pocket asnuli-box, Ipot
flick 'there vm- u cameo set in gold. At int the
somuambulist could not see it distinctly; Ire said _that
the gold setting dezhled him. When the setting was
covered' with the lingers, he said- that he saw the em-
blem of ildelity. When pressed to tell what this em-
Hemwm; headded, "
Iseeadog, he is Asif on his
lsind legs before an altar." This, in feet, was what VII
represented.
A closed letter was presented to him. He could not
discover any of its contents. He only followed the di-f
reution of the lines with hiiinger; but he edsllfyreed
theaddress, although iteontained a pretty-diicnlt name a
To M; dv Roioastroh. _
244
*
APPENDIX, No. 1.
All these experiments were
exceedingly fatiguing to
M. Petit. He was allowed to repose for an instant.
Then, as he was very fond of play, a game at cards
was
proposed for his relaxation. As much as theex-
periments of pure curiosity seemed to annoy him, with
so much the more ease and dexterity did he perform
whatever gave him pleasure, 'and this he entered into
of his own accord.
One of the gentlemen present, M, Raynal, formerly
inspector of the university, played a
game at piquet
with M. Petit and lost it. The latter handled his cards
with the greatest dexterity, and without making any
mistake. We attempted several times in vain to set
him at fault, by taking away or' changing some of his
cards. He counted with surprising facility the points
marked upon his adversary's marking card.
During all this time, we never ceased to examine the
eyes, and to hold a candle near them; and we
always
found them exactly closed. We remarked, however,
that the ball of the eye seemed to move under the eye-
lids, and to follow the different motions of the hands.
Finally, M. Bourdois declared, that, according to all
human probability, and as far as it was possible to judge
by the senses, the eyelids were
exactly closed.
While M. Petit was engaged in a second game at
piquet,'M. Dupotet, upon the suggestion of M. Ribes,
directed his ma, from Behina, towards the patient's
elbow, and the contraction previously observed 'again
took place. Afterwards, upon the suggestion of M.
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 245
Bourdois, he magnetised him from behind, and always
at the distanceof more than a foot, with the intention
of awakening him. The keenness with which the som#
nambulist engaged in play resisted this action, which,
without awakening, seemed to annoy and disconccrt
him. He carried his hand several times to the backof
his head, as if he suffered pain in that part. At length
he fell into a state' of somnolency, which seemed like a
slight natural sleep; and some one' having 'spoken to
him wheniin this state, he awoke as if with'a start.
A few moments afterwards, M. Dupotet, always placed
near him, but at a certain distance, set him again asleep,
and we recommenced our experiments. M. Dupotet
being desirous that not the slightest shadow of doubt
should remain with regardto the nature of the physical
iniuence exerted at will upon the somnambulist, pro-
posed to place upon M. Petit as
many bandages sa we
might think proper, and to operate upon him while. in
this state. In fact, we covered his face down to the
nostrils with several neckcloths; we stopped up with
gloves the cavity formed by the prominence of the nose,
and we covered the wholewith a black handkerchief,
which descended, in the form of a veil, as far as the
neck. The attempts to eagcite the magnetic susceptibi-
lity, by operating at a
distance in every way, were then
renewed; and, invariably, the same motions were pen
ceived in the parts towards which the hand or the foot
were directed. _
_
s
_
_
246 APPENDIX, No. 1.
Alter these new experiments, M. Dupotet hving
t¢k¢»the|1nndagesoil'H.Petit,playedagame¢
wllélitln lilmincrdcrtedivvertlnim. Heplsyid
widatheurmfaeiityubefauud aantinned mouss-
iul- Hobeesmeaoesgsrsthisgame, tluthemlnsilld
i|¢\ll|ll¢ to d|B'l!1alDl\®0f H. Bourdois, who, wld):
hw wslsvl i=\r\\v»'»i\lr¢M1~r¢°¢l¢°<»|»¢»t¢
uponhiantiemhalnind, qdjemakehimperfwma
command indlded merely by the lill-
Aihrhisgame, the semnambnlistrose, wslkdacren
"IB Noll, 'Pl"l"8 isidetbeolsaira, whiehkefomld ill
his way, and went to sit down spelt, in oder ta take
mme repose at _s distance from the inquisitive experi-
ndnlists, who had fatigued him. Them ll- Dupont
awakened him s the distanee ef several feet; 'bit it
seemed that he :was not completely awake, for QDIIIQ
moments dterwards he again £el.l asleep, and itwng ne-
cessary to make fresh efforts, in order to romeiim
ofectnally.
Whmavdw, hBS8ld]lB|lIdll0|'&\kf@0f any
thing tht teak place during his sleep.
It ismost certain, that if; as M.Bonrdoishas m-
oordodapalt indie pmoes-oerbalof this sitting, "the
constant imlobiiity of the eyelids and their .edges sl-
eo as that the eye-lashes appeared to cm!
nel; other, me su$e.ient guarantees of the koiiity
(olainayauas) .of this mmnambulist, -it was impossible
to withhold, if not our belief, at least our astonishment,
nero nur on ANm.u.`MnGm~:1'1sM. 247
at all that took place at this sitting, and not to be de-
sirous of witnessing new experiments, in order to en,
able us to Ex our opinion in regard totheexistenoeaud
the value of .Animal Nsgllefism."
The wish expressed upon this subject by our presi-
dent was not longof beinggrstified by dxree WENT'
bulills, who, besides this clairvoyanse, observed in the
Pr0°°¢iil$°Il¢»presentedproofsofsnintui¢i°l.andof
s
presides very remsrlnble, whether for themselves
or for others.
Here the sphere seems to enlarge; we no longer
wmt to satisfy s simple curiosity,-no longer endea-
vour to ascertain whether or not there exists any crite-
rion which may enable ns to decide whether somum»
bnlism has or has not taken plane,-whether a som-
nnibulist can reed with his eyes closed,-whether,
during his sleep, he can fonneembinationsatpleylelw
or less complicated,--curious mad interestingquestions,
the solution ofwhich, espeoiallyof the lest, is, considered
as a mirespsshde, s most extmordinnryphenomenon;
bntwhiob,iup0i&tofreelinterest, andinthe hopeof
beneiitingthe science of medicine, are infinitely beneath
these with whidryour committee are nor about to
make yen acquainted.
There is not one amongst you, gentlemen, who,
amidst all that he hes been told about magnetism, has
mt heard of that ihcultywhicli certain somnambnlists
hs-ve, not only of discovering the species of disease
248 APPENDIX, No. 1.
with which theythemselves are affected-the endurance
and the issue of these diseases; but even the species,
the endurance and the issue of the diseases of others
with whom they are
placed en rapport. The three fol-
lowing cases have appeared to us so important, that we
have thought it our duty to make you acquainted with
them at large, as
affording most remarkable examples
of this intuition and of this prevision ; at the same time,
you will find in them a combination of various pheno-
mena which were not observed in the other magnetised
persons.
Paul Villagrand, student of law, hom at Magnac
Laval (Upper Vienne), on the 18th of May 1803, suf-
fered a stroke of apoplexy on the 25th of December
1825, which was followed by a
paralysis of the whole
left side of the body. Alter seventeen months of dif-
ferent modes of treatment, by acupuncture, a seton in
the nape of the neck, twelve applications of mama
along
the vertebral column-modes of treatment which he
followed at home, at the Maison de Santé, and at the
Hospiw de Perfectiomnement, and in the course of which
he had two fresh attacks-he was admitted into the
de Ia CIean%, on the 8th of April 1827. Al-
though he had experienced perceptible relief from the
means employed before he entered this hospital, he still
walked with crutches, being unable to support himself
upon the left foot. The arm of the same side, indeed,
could perform several motions; but Paul could not lift
BEPOBT ou ANIMAL useurxusu. 249
it to his head. He scarcely saw with his right eye,
and was
very hard of hearing with both ears. In this
state he was entrusted to the care of our colleague,
M. Fouquier, who, besides the very evident
discovered in him the symptom of hypertrophy of _the
heart. i
'
~
_
1
'
-
During live months, he administered to him the all
coholio extract of mwvomaba, bled him from timeto
time, purged him, and applied blisters. The left arm
recovered a little strength ; the headache, towhich he
was
subject, disappeared; and his health continued sts-
tionary until the 29th of August 1827, when he was
magnetised for the first time by M. Foissae, by order
and under the direction of M. Fouquier. 'At this first
sitting, he experienced a sensation oi' general heat, then
twitchings (soubresauts) of the tendons. He was asto>
nished to find himself overcome by the desire of sleep-
iirg; he rubbed his eyes in order to get rid of it, made
visible and ineffectual eilbrts to keep his eyelids open,
and, at length, his head fell down upon his breast, and
he fell asleep. From this period, his deafness and
headschs disappeared. It was not until the ninth sit=
ting that his sleep became profound; and at the tenth,
he answered, byinarticulate sounds, the questions which
were addressed to him. At a later period, he an»
nounoed that he could not be cured but by means 0?
magnetism, and he prescribed for himself a continuation
of the pills composed, of the extract
`
of nuz
%8 Arrznmx, No. 1.
lil\\[lil8»ldhthl0fBMege|. Up0llt|1e!5thof
SQQDIIBI, you Committee repaired to the Hopiml de
1| Qerii, :nude the patient be nndreiled, and leer-
&lBd that the inferior kftlimb wee mluifeatlythinner
thnthezig-Int-mthatthe rigluthudclosed michael:
strongly than the left-that the tongue, when dnwl
out# lhellelltifvai 0#!idf0Yll&\|Bl'@¢DQm~
lilAU'e,nl\lthattherighteheekw|smomeo¢v»ex
um an ua.
`
Puhvu thll'lllQ'll0\-il0d, md soonplaoedinaatnie
of þÿG ¬B*lkllL
He reeapituleted what :elated he
in teatment, and Pl¥¢l'ih8d that, on that some
day, n
sinnpismshouldbe appliedlzooauhafhis lqflforn
honrnndnhalhthnt next dayheehould ftskeahath
»fBanege|; and that, upon coming ontofthe hath, li-
mpisms should be again qmplied daring twin hours'
without -interruption, sometimes to one
plaee,.and nome-
timee to another; that, upon the following day, $86!
Dvilg -taken e second hath of Bungee, blood should
he-drawn fnom hisright arm to the extent of apaldu
and a hall Finally,~he added, thu, by following thi
lmeatnent, he would be endzled, upon the 28th, i.¢.
ken days aftuwands, to 'walk without crutches on
lowing the sitting, at which, he said, it would still he
necessary 'to megnetile him. The investment which be
hd fPl@6!")d was followed ; and upon the day named,
the 28th of September, the committee nepaired to it
Hopihld¢laCluBé. P$ll|42'|ll8,lIlPP(l'f0d@ his
nsroxvr on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 251
crutches, into the veonsultingaaon, when llle was mg-
nmisedasusual,andplmeedin»ssmtefof "¥8llblliB.
lq¢hisstate,hea|anmdu|»tls|t!\eahonldnehu'1iiohad
wkho\tthes||e\ofikmntches,'vithontsngpnn. Upnn
maui-g,|»»¢k¢df»fni»~=»mu»,..-» "mu--fu:
hsimd no longwresnymeelof than. In £u|:,bxaa,
l|Qpwtedhin|e'lfonhepnralysad|leg,pasndtbaalgh
thtaord-who followed þÿbi||l;&|6Bl\d ¬d~&
stepsf &
chambre d'ea.per-knees, mused the second eourtdell
Gbviédohiod tam _stapsg and when holdvei at
thebviwm of the ?*I'i'»ll0 aatdoma. Aftlr nutig
w\winltu,he:llval1dnd,|ri;la£hoadstaneeo£a1¢u
8ld'¢%§ld9pd|6 tmentgviinu' step! cfillse Sli
\vhieh'ledseaho»oomlrhmehesl¢pt,~mmx»hd
vithnt mppergaatdownagainfor analunt, ad
bll1l)0k:\|0$|3lf'Wdkill"!f,W$h68l'1i'
Hi|aeM»ofd|l~tko-otha' patients, whafuntil liemlld
neon him -oonltantly-oodinad what Fl'$*'lfe
Pnnlnovarmsumediisautdnas.
¥11\rr00mmittao_asse|nblell9il»0¥\01\° 1`1¢l1~°f0»»
£001 fallowingn tho H¢piIuIdola Claarié. Psi
llmglotiudnndhe announced to asthat h9Bh0"
hea|n\gletsly¢u¢adattBesnd.of=theycar,ifa sets
was glued 'two indian below the regionof the haul.
At 'Hin itiing, he vraaupntailyfpindlaxi, Picked with
spin, to1h|leptiof¢iile,in$b¢y&¢ow
wrist, wiizhed-pnodueing may symptom
»
Upn -the i&h lf -Qdoht, M. Fonpim' ruainil a
252 APPENDIX, No. 1.
letter from the Conseil General du Hospices, requesting
him to suspend the experiments which had com-
menced at the Hopkal de la Charité. We were ob-
liged., therefore, to interrupt this magnetic treatment,
the eicacy of which our
paralytic patient said he could
not suiliciently praise. M. Foissac procured his dis-
missal from the hospital, and placed him inthe Rus
der petit: Augustine, No. 18, in a
private apartment,
where he continued the treatment.
Upon the 29th of the same month, your committee
met at the apartment of the patient, in order to exaf
mine into the progress of his cure; but before he wu
magnetised, they ascertained that he walked without
crutches, and more firmly, to all appearance, than at
the preceding sitting. We then made him try his
strength upon the dynamometer. When pressed by the
right hand, the hand of the instrument indicated thirty
kilogrammes, and hy the left, twelve. 'I`he two hands
united caused it to mount to thirty-one. He was mag-
netised. In four minutes somnambulism was manifestf
ed, and Paul assured us' that he should be completely
cured upon the lst of January, We tried his strength :
the right hand carried the hand of the dynamomdcr to
twenty-nine kilogrammer (one less than before his sleep),
the left hand (the paralysed one) to twenty-six (four-
teen more than before his sleep), and the two hands
united, to forty-five (fourteen more than before).
_
While still in the state of somnambulism, he rose to
nnroar ON ANIMAL uses:-:'r1sM. 253
walk, and got over the ground cleverly. He hopped
upon the left foot. He knelt down on the right knee;
then rose up, supporting himself with the left hand up-
on one of the assistants, and resting the whole weight
of his body upon the left knee. He took and lifted up
M. Thillaye, turned him round, and sat down with him
on his knees. He drew the dynamometer with all his
strength, and made the scale of traction (cchelle de trac-
tion) mount to sixteen myriagrammes.
`
At our
request
that he would go down stairs, he rose
quickly from his
elbow-chair, took the arm of M. Foissac, which he quit-
ted at the door, descended and ascended the stairs, two
or three at a time, with a convulsive rapidity, which,
however, he moderated when he was bid to take them
one by one. As soon as he awoke, he lost 'this asto-
nishing augmentation of strength; in fact, the dynamo-
méler then indicated no
more than 8§ myriagrammes,
i. e.
121 less than when asleep. His walk was slow,
but sure; he could not sustain the weight of his body
on the left leg (the paralysed one), and he made an in-
effectual attempt to lift up M. Foissac.
We'ought to remark, gentlemen, that, a few days
before this last experiment, the patient had lost two
poundsand a half of blood, that he had still two blisters
on his' legs, a seton in the nape of theneck, and ano-
ther on the breast; consequently, you will perceive
along with us what a prodigious increase _of strength
Magnetism had produced in the diseased organs, that
254 srnwnlx, sro. 1.
ef the send my renéhgtie sane, ning iles;
thesotslstengtlneflhebodyvuneswetlnnqunb
rnpled.
Ales' thi, Paul reneueed all nedid ¢res§sl,
wilzhg te be mgnetied only; md, townnb the and
of & yeeqesbeexpeledawili to be plaid and
bsptineshsed'senmm|dhn,inorder teoonplets
hieenre bythe lstoflennerphewumegnesieed upon
sl|e25thefDeeembu-,mdeontinuedinesteteefeal-
lllllllillll until the lst of Juunry.
Daring this period, he wee awakened about twelve
hears, es neqnnl intervals ; and in these short moments
hewnsmede to believe this he had been onlyefew
hours asleep. During the whole of his sleep, his diges-
tive functions were
performed with an increased reti-
vity. _
He had been asleep three days, when, in company
with M. Foissec, he set ont on foot, on the 28th of De-
cember, from the Rue Mondovi, and went in seareh
of M. Fonquier at the dela Cbarité, where be
arrived at nine e'clooh. He recognised there the pa-
tients near when he had slept before his discherge, the
pupils who were upon duty in the room, and he reed
with his eyes closed, a
finger having been applied to
eseh eyelid, some words which were presented to lim
by M. Fonqnier. All that wehad witnessed eppeted
te es so estonislzingythas yonr eeniniuee, being dui.
REPORT GN* KNIIIRL EAGNETISM.
rom of following out the history of this semunnhulist
to the end, again mei, uponthe lst of January; in the
house of M. Foissac, when we found Pml aslebpdnoe
the 25th of December. Fifteen days hefom, he hd
tahenout the setons is tll0'@kllId¢6|0ll|,d
had established, on the hit urn, sclntetynrhiolr- he
was to continue all- his life. Moriwer, he dedated
that he was now cured, that, unless of some h-
prudenee, he should live to an advance!! age; Und that
he should die at lan of an attach of apopiexy. While
still asleep, he went out ofthe house of M. Foissae,
and walked and ran nlong the striefwitha burned
assured step. Upon him return, he with the
greatest facility, one of thorpenuns present", when! be
would ncanely have lined before he was ser-adeep.
Upon the 12th of January, your committee met
again at the house of M. Foismo, vrhere there were pref
sent M. E. Lucene, deputy, M. De ---»,-aide-Qwunlp
to~ the king, and. M. Segalas, member of the Academy.
M. Foiuu: told ua that he was going to set Paul asleep,
tht, in this stnto' of somuambulism, singer should be
spplind- to each of his elosed eyes, and that, in spite of
this complete occlusion of the eyelids, he should dis-
tinguii the eoleuf of ends, tlnt he should read the
title of a work, and even some words or lines pointed
out at random in the bod'y of the work. At the end of
two minutes of magnetic manipulations, Paul fell asleep.
The eyelids being ltept closed, constantly and alternlteé
256 <
nrnumx, No. r.
ly hy MM. Fouquier, Itard, Marc, and the Reporter,"
there was
presented to him a pack of new cards, from
which the paper covering hearingthe government stamp
was torn elf. The cards were shulied, and Paul easily
and successively recognised the King of Spades, the
Ace of Clubs, the Queen of Spades, the Nine of Cluha,
the Seven of Diamonds, and Queen of Diamonds, and
the Eight of Diamonds. -
While his eyelids were kept closed by M. Segalas,
there was presented to him a volume which the Report-
er had brought along with He read upon the
title-page : Hirloire de Franca* He could not read
thetwo intermediate lines, and upon the fifth he read
only the name, Anquetil, which is preceded by the pre-
position par. The hook was
opened at the 89th page,
and he read in the iirst line-Ie nombre de ses-he passed
over the word troupes, and continued: Au momentod
on Ie croyait oocupé des pkulrirs du camaval. He also
read the running-title Louis, but could not read the
Roman cypher which follows it. A piece of paper was
presented to him, upon which were written the words,
Agglutination and Zlfagnelisme Animal. He spelt the
first, and pronounced the two others. Finally, the
pmcésmerbal of this sitting was presented to him, and
'
I-listoire de France depuis les Gaulois jusqnes ii. la mortldo Louis
xvl. pn Anquetil. 18 von. Bvo. Puig, 1817.
-'1'hepa|sagereadhyPa\listohefounduponthe89thpags ofthe
7th volume.
_
_
nmroxvr on ANIMAL mcnsrxsm. 257
he read very distinctly the date, and some words which
were more
legibly written than the others. In all these
experiments, the _lingers were applied to the whole of
the commissure of both eyes, by pressing down the up-»
per upon the under eyelid, and we remarked that the
ball of the eye was in a constant rotatory motion, and
seemed directed towards the object presented to'his
vision.
'
_
Upon the 2d of February, Paul was
placed ina state
ofsomnambulism in the house of Messrs Scribe and
Bremard, merchants, Rue St Houoré. The Report-
er of the committee was the only member present at
this experiment. The eyelids were closed as before,
and Paul read, inthe work entitled The T/lousand and
One Naylus, the title-page, the word Prqbce, and the
iifst line of the preface, with the exception of the word
pen. There was also presented to_ him a volume en-
titled, Leltres de deux amier, par Madame Canipan. He
distinguished on a
print the figure of Napoleon; he
pointed out the boots, and said that he also saw two fe-
male ligures. He then read currently the_four first
lines of the third page, with the exception of the word
Finally,fhe recognised, 'without touching them,
four cards, which were successively presented to
two
and two,+these were the King of Spades and the
Eight of Hearts, the King and Queen of Clubs. = _
At another sitting, which took place upon the 13th
'VQL.ll.. _
s
'
vs _ 4
_
258 nrsunix, no. 1.
of Moriah following, Pnl oltomptonl il vain to dish.
gui|la£6e|-ent eudswhioh were applied to daopitof
the stoned; but ine mood, with Bo oyoo still oloool, il
orhook opened at fondom, ond, ot this time, it vos M.
Jules (loquet who kept his eyes shut. 'Pho Reporter
oloolmteuponadipofpoper thewordo,
Robopiern, which he read equiy ovell.
The conclusions to be drawn fiom this long ul
oorion can one
easy. They low nnomlly fron the
simple of 'thoffaets whidx we hive lofortod
to you, li WB#$$l\7Elh them in io foloewing man-
ner =-Q
l. A patient, whom a notional medical treeqoat by
one of the most dislilguilhed praotitionen of the api-
tll coild not cure of a.
poralycie, Iound his xo from
the administration of Magnetism, and in consequence
of following -emotly the treatment which he poscrihod
brhilodfwhol in e state ofsomnambniila. 2. In
this lite, bk Stmngdi was
remarkably incneoaed. S.
Hegove ll the-most undmbtedpavofs that hereod
vitihiseyeo dosed. 4. He predicted the period of
his eune, and this OIIO took place.
In the following ease, -we shell see 'thin foresigHoti'l'l
looie fully -developed in a msn
'belonging to do iolnr
dus, quite ignorant, and who, aomnedly, hd never
heard of Animd
Pierre 0upt,oged i0'yenn,hyt|ode shatter, born
of an
epileptic mother, had been subject for ten years
nzrom on Amusl. XAGNETISM. 259
toswwksof epila|»y,vzhiehoocw1~ad£veorsiximss
a-week, when he was admittad into the Hopilalde hz
about the of the mend of August
1827- He was immediately anbjecteilfn the magnetic
tneshn0H¢,w|setasleepatthe8dsit¢isg,andbaeune
somnamlmlilt at the 10th, whinln wok -place upon the
l9£hofAngnst. Itwas~tl|en,at9o'zlookinhemorn-
ilg.=tha¢heannouncediaonsihst»tfomo's=ls¢ka£tbe
a&u'n0ou0f1=hatday,hoshouldhaves| sttaeknfqri-
lepiy, but tlmtit might 'be prevented by nsgnotiisg
Um s little previously. We preferred vosifyiq b
exactaeas of his prediction, udnopxeoantiosvnsts-
kenwpxevfantilasfnliilment. We osntantei ourselves
with observing him, :ritlmnt.excit.ingin him any supi-
aion. _At one akzlock, he IB seised with s vislnt
hosdsoh- Asdneghm abligodsogomhd. md
pmeciselystfnur tabalit cameos. It listed lim Ii-
nutes- On¢ll¢sao0nl4|y:follo1ving,Gs»ntbeirg,ins
stataaf somnaaabulism. ll. Fauquier suddenly thrust
spi|.afn¢inain_lsngth betmcel tbe_fors-liugxand
tinmbafhimrightlunda withhhssanopishepiehesl
ilelobcafhi¢-e¢;hiseynlidnrere|epU¢sd,ad¢l»e
mnimdivadneksevsrd-imunizhthnheulofspi¢»
did l0tlI|df6ll*ill0lllsll8¢ sigusf
lllliiwlity.
Ynnr-Csznmitfoe nepimsdso1hsHqiuld¢la Clu-
fi¢l1p0l5l|e24t|9fAugn|t,st nine o'ehck in tis
momill¢» in older tn 1iQBl the experimpstn Wllidl
260 ~ '-
krrnunxx, no; |.`
'
~
M. Fouquier, one of its members, proposed to continue
to make upon this patient.
-
.
'
M. Foissac, who had already magnetised him, placed
himself opposite, and at the distance of six feet- from
Camt; he looked steadily at him, niade use of no ma-
nipulations, preserved absolute silence, and Casot fell
asleep in eight minutes. Three times there was
placed
underhis nose a bottle filled with ammoniac: his face
coloured, his respiration increased, but he did not a-
wake. ,M. Fouquier thrust into his fore-arm a pin of
an inch in length. Another. was introduced to the
depth of two" lines obliquely under' the breast-bone
(sternum); a third, also obliquely, at the pit of the
stomach; a fourth perpendicularly into the sole of the
foot. -
M. Gnersent pinched him in the fore-arm, -so as
to produce a livid spot in the skin: M. Itard leant up-
on his with the whole weight of his body. We
endeavoured to produce tickling, by bringing a small
piece of paper lmder the nose, and conducting it along
the lips, the eyelids, the eye-lashes, the neck, and the
sole uf the foot. Nothing could awaken him. We
pressed him with questions. How long' will your fits
continue ? For a
year.--Do you know whether they
will follow close upon each. other? No.- Will you
have any this month? I shall have one on
Monday
the 27th, at twenty minutes from three o'clook.- Will
they be severe P Not 'half so severe as the one I had
la.st.'--_ Upon what other day' willyou have another at-
~
nzronr ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. '261
-tack? After exhibiting some symptoms of impatience,
he answered: Fifteen days hence,-i.e. on the 7th of
Septembera-At what 'hour ? 'At ten minutes before
six if the morning.-The indisposition of one of Ca-
sot's children obliged him to leave thehospital 'this
very day, the 24th 'of August.
'
Maison agreed wmake
him retnrn on the morning of Monday the 27th, in or-
der that we might have an
opportunity of observing
the lit, which he told 'us was to take place that day at
twenty minutes to three.
`
The keeper having refused
to admit him when he presented himself; Cazot went
to the house of M. Foissac to complain of this refusal.
The latter told us that he preferred putting a
stop to
this fit by magnetism, than.to be the sole witness of it_:
Consequently,`we could not ascertain the exactness of
this prevision.
'
But 'we 'had still to observethe lit
which he had announced for the 7th of September, and
M. Fouqnier, who procured. for Caaot admission into
the hospital upon the .6th, 'under the pretext of sub-
jecting him to 'some treatment which could not take
place out of the establishment, made him bemagnetised
in the course of the day, by M. Foissac, who set him
asleep by the mere influence of.his volition, and his
fixed lock. In this sleep, Cazot repeated that he
should have an attack next day at ten minutes to six,
and thatvit might he prevented by magnetising him a
little before. _
'
Q
Upon a signal agreed upon and given- by M. Fou-
262 Armlmx, No. 1.
quit, M. Foissaqsf vlmm presses (hunt sms ignof
rant, awakened him, as he had set lim asleep, by the
more inilneloe of his volition, in qite of the questions
we addressed to the smsmamhulist, the only object af
lhi0hUll|'000Il60l1 from him the moment when be
lute ll>8W8k@|d» In 0l7dBl' to tht lewlil
Iii. your Committee met, at e quarter before ix of the
lllihilg-of .tba 7% of (September, in fire Salle 3 Hi-
aidoftbe Hcpitaldsla Hiavité. Then welmmt.
tbl, upon the previous evening, at eight ofdnek, (knot
'llndbeelleiledwithapninin laiel|esd,wbi¢blmdt»es=-
mind him ell night; that this pain had mused the
senaaiioanftlle ringingof bells, and tbatlselmdex-
perieneed shooting pains in the ein- At ten minutes
to six, we witnessed the epileptic iit, ehaunterised -by
rigidity and oontmction of the limbs, tbe repeated pm-
jeotiom and badcof the heed, tbearded aar-
vsturo of the body backwards, the convulsive closing
of the eyelids, tio retraction of the ball of the eye tn-
vu-ds the upper part of the orbit, sighs, screams, in-
se||libi.litytopind1ing,squeezingof the tongue between
due teeth. All those symptoms oontinued ive minutes,
luring which there were two abort intends of remis-
siomoecbofsune seconds; md afterwards there el-
s»ednmlnation(b-iaa»ent)ofth limbs, and general
lusiude. _
-
_
Upon the 10th of September, at seven deloolt in the
evening, 19N-%`Uli§t09 net at the house of M- Iterd»
nnrolrr on ANIMAL HAGNETISM. £
iugtler to ooninua their experiments upon Guut. The
lltier Ill in the -pu-leur, where we ntemd into -com
nrhtion with him, and kept it-up l IIE-past le-
vm-Alxo at which M- Foissmqwho hd lllild
:Rat ~u|, and 'lllilld in time utoohmbor, which was
uqndad him the =pax-lon: by two dosed icon, and I
|diin|n|aft.1el»vs=fast,\egant» magnetiu him.
'l'hrae1|inuks|Bor, Cunt uid: "
I believe M. Fda-
uc is linen, liar I feel myself slnpeliod (daaowdif)
Art-£59 lldof minutes &"Bl ld eolllpleflly
dug. 'We qnoalibnad him, and be again named ul,
tlliinéthuo vadra fromthatday, Ln. l§lhB lid'
Oxtabez, in should have u qilepticiit at two minutes
before mon.
W0 midi! it our Business to olnern, with as muck
0969 wah( ¢k3l8 upon tho hhofinptzmhor, the
lpihpieit YUAIIBOBJ 'f¢i0M&)P the lstof 0e-
tabor. 1¢ortbi|1>u~p»o.d»ellonmisee repindn
half-,putwlovm upon that dayio-the home of M.
Georges hf»'§"`|0.fll'¢, Rue de Jlanearien, No. 17,
when -UQIIIIZ lwliicd, Wd followsd his amploymmt.
Wa lnnt &am this M.G0orgoa,zlmt Gaaotwun
very steady wonlrmm; that his conduct -Wu exedlms
and tht, awhehlnr #om simplidty afdaraater. or from
l9»lQR5IlviQ|¢» |18 nt ef lending hilllldful
an7Jd|d0ff|1nd_;ilutUll0¢»feolinghimse1findi|»
p»»a,»»ar»mai»»as»na¢5»»»,».aw»»¢.¢,¢n;
iilihvillld =exp|rielood mink ofgihpyaime
264. APPENDIX, No. 1. »
that which the Committee had witnessed at the Hopi~
tal de Ia Charité; that there was now in company with
Cazot an intelligent man, whose veracity and discretion
might be depended upon, and that this man had not
announced to Cazot that he had predicted lm 'attack
upon this day; that it appeared certain, that, since the
,l0th of September, M. Foissac had communication with
Calot, but from this no inference' could be drawn that
he had reminded him of his prediction; on theeon-
trary, M. Foissac appeared to attach very great import-
ance to its being concealed from Cazot. M.
-at live minutes before noon, went up to a room situated
under that inhabitated by Cazot; and a minute after-
wards, he came to inform us that the lit had com-
menced. We all went up in haste, MM. Gnersent,
Thillay0» Marc, Gueneau, de Mussy, Itard, and the
reporter, to the sixth story, where, upon our arrival,
the watch of one of the Committee indicated -a minute
before noon, true time. Assembled round the bed of
Cazot, we found the epileptic fit, characterized by the
_following symptoms :-Tetanic rigidity of the trunk
and limbs, the head and sometimes the trunk bent bach-
wards, a convulsive drawingupwards of the balls of
the eyes, of which nothing was to be seen but the
white, a very' decided suifusion of the face and neck,
contraction of the jaws, partial iibrillary convulsions in
the muscles of fthe fore-arm and of the right arm:
Soon alterwarck so decided -that the trunk
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
was bent back into the arc of a circle, the body re ting
only on the head and feet, which motions were termi-
nated by an
abrupt relaxation. A few moments after
this attack, i. e. alter a minnte's respite, another iit came
on similar to thepreceding. There were inarticulate
sounds, the respiration was stiied and tremulous, the
larynx being rapidly depressed and elevated, and the
pulse beating from 132 to 160. There was no foam at
the mouth,inor contraction of the thumb towards the
palm.
`
At the end of six minutes, the fit terminated
with sighs, sinking down of the limbs, opening of 'the
eyelids, which allowed him to look upon the bystanders
with an air of astonishment, and he told us that he was
lamed coarbaturé), especially in the right arm.
'
Although the Committee could entertain no doubt
as to the very decided efects which magnetism pro-
duced upon Cazot, even without his knowledge, and at
a certain distance, we wished to have still another proof
of its influence. And as it had been proved at the last
sitting that M. Foissac had had communications with
him, and might have reminded him of his having pre-
dicted the attack which was to take place on the lst of
October, the Committee, in making new experiments
npon Cazot, wished to lead M. Foissac into an error
with regard to the day which the patient should pre-
dict as that of his next attack. In this way we should
prevent every species of collusion, even if it could be
voi. u. 2
266 APPENDIX, No. 1.
supposed that a. man whom we had always found to he
upright and conscientious would enter into a compact
with another, destitute of education and knowledge, in
order to deceive us. We confess that we could never
entertain an idea so injurious to the one and the other;
and we must render the same
justice to MM. Dupotet
and Chapelain, of whom we have repeatedly had occa-
sion to speak in this report-
Your Committee, then, met in the cabinet of M.
Bourdois, upon the 6th of October at noon, at which
hour Cazot arrived there with his child. Here M.
Foissac had been invited to meet us at_ half-past twelve;
hearrived unknown to_Cazot, and remained in the
drawing-room, without having any communication with
us. A person, however, was sent by a concealed door
to tell him that Cazot was seated on a sofa, about ten
feet distant from a closed door, and that _the Committee
requested that he might he set asleep and awakened
at this distance, he remaining in the cabinet, and M.
Foissac in the drawing-room. _
_At thirty-seven minutes past twelve, while Cazot
was
engaged in conversation with us, and in examining
_the__pictnres which hung :round the cabinet, M. Foissac
commenced his magnetic operations in the next room,
and we remarked, that, at theend of four minutes, Ca-
zot
winked slightly, appeared restless, and at length, in
nine minutes, fell asleep. M. Guersent, who had atl-
tended him at the Hopilal des Enfam for his epileptic
REPORT ON ANIMAL MKGNETISM. 267
attacks, asked him if he recognised him. He answer-
ed in the adirmative. M.-Itard asked him when he
should have another fit. He answered -that he should
have one in four weeks from that day (the 'Sd of No-
vember), at five minutes past four in the afternoon.
He was then asked when he should have another. He
answered, after collecting himself, and hesitating, that
it would be five weeks after the preceding, upon-'the
9th of
`
December, at halflpast nine in the morning.
The procis-verbal of this meeting having been read
over in presence of M.- Foissac, in order that he .might
sign it along with us, we wished, as we have said above,
to lead _him into can error; and in reading it over to
him before getting it signed by the members of the
Committee, the reporter read, that -Cuot's first iit
should take place upon Sunday the 4th of November,
instead of Saturday the Bd, as
predicted by the Qpatient.
He was
equally deceived in-regard to the second iit,
and M. Foissac took a note of these false indications
as if they had been correct; but-some days afterwards,
havingplaced Cazot in a state of somnamhulism, as he
was accustomed to do, in order to free him from his
headache, he learntfrom him that the fit should take
place upon the Sd, and not the 4th, and of this he in-
formed M. Itard, believing that an error had crept into
our
prooéa-verbal.
= ' '
~
-
In order to observe the lit of the Sd of November,
the committee took the same precautions as in. examin-
268 APPENDIX, No. I.
ing that of the lst of October. At four o'clock in the
afternoon, we repaired to the house of M. Georges,
where we learnt from him, from his wife, and from one
of the workmen, that Cazot had wrought, as usual, all
the morning until two o'clock, and that, at dinner, he
had felt a headach; that, nevertheless, he had come
down for the purpose of resuming his work; but that
the headach had increased, and having experienced a
stupor, he had returned to his room, lain down in his
bed, and fallen asleep. MM. Bourdois, Fouquier, and
the reporter, then went up, preceded by M. Georges,
to Caz0t's room. M. Georges entered alone, and found
him in a profound sleep, which he made us observe by
the door upon the stair being left a-jar. M. Georges
spoke loud to him, moved him, shook him by the arms,
without being able to awaken him, and at six minutes
past four, in the midst of these attempts to awakenhim,
Cazot was seized with the principal symptoms which
characterise a fit of epilepsy, and in all respects similar
to those which we have previously observed(
The second lit, announced at the sitting of the 6th
of October to take place upon the 9th of December, i.e.
two months before, occurred at a quarter from ten, in-
stead of half-past nine (a quarter of an hour later than
had been predicted), and was characterised by the same
precursory phenomena, and by the same
symptoms as
those of the 7th of September, lst of October, and Bd
of November.
'
REPORT on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 269
Finally, upon the llth of February, Cazot foretold
the period of another fit, which was to take place upon
Sunday the 22d of April, five minutes after noon; and
this annunciation was verified, like the preceding, within
about live minutes; that is to say, the fit took place
ten minutes after noon. This lit, remarkable for its
violence, for the fury with which Cazot bit his hand
and his fore-arm, bi the abrupt and repeated starts
with which he lifted himself up, lasted 'thirty-iive mi-
nutes, when M. Foissac, who was' present, magnetised
him. The convulsive state soon ceased, 'and gave way
to the magnetic
'
soninambulism, during_ which Cazot
rose, sat down upon a chair, and said that he was much
fatigued, that he should still have two fits--one in nine
weeks from to-morrow (25th of June), at three minutes
past six o'clock. He did not wish to speak of these-
cond iit, because it would be necessary for him to think
of what was to happen previously--(at this moment he
sent
away his wife, who was present)-and he added
that, about three weeks after the lit of the 25th of
June, he should become insane, that his insanity should
last three days, during which he should be so wicked
as to Eght with every body, that he should even mal~
treat his wife and his child, that he ought not to be left
alone with them, and that he did not know hut he
might kill some person whom he did not name. He
ought then to be bled successively in the two feet.
Finally, he added: f' I shall be cured in the monthof
270 APPENDIX, No. 1.
August; and when once cured, the disease will never
attack me again under any circumstances."
It was
upon the 22d of April that 'all these predic-
tions were made; and two days afterwards, the 24th,
Calot, attempting to stop a
spirited horse. who had
taken the bit in his teeth, was thrown against the wheel
of a cabriolet, which shattered the arch .of the left or-
bit, and bruised him shockingly.
`
He was taken mule
hospital Baaajon, and died there upon the ~15th of May.
Upon opening his skull, there were found.a recent in-
lammation of the cerebral- membranes (meningitis), a
collection of purulent matter under the integuments of
the craninm, and, at the extremity of the plaus choroi-
dss, a substance yellow within and white on the outside,
containing small hydatides.
'
~ f
In this case, we see a
young man, subject during ten
years to attacks of epilepsy, for which he was under
medical treatment at the Hqziml des Ergfans and that
of St Louis successively, and also exempted from mili-
try service. Magnetism acts upon him, although he
is completely ignorant of what is done. There is an
amelioration in the symptoms of his disease; the tits
diminish in frequency; his oppression and headachs diss
appear underthe iniluence of Magnetism; he prescribes
a mode of treatment adapted to the nature of-his com-
plaint, and from which he predicts a cure. When mag#-
netised without his knowledge, and at a distance, he
falls into somnambdism, and is withdrawn from it-as
nnrom' ON AmMAL`MaGNE'r1sm. 271
promptly as when he was
magnetised near.
Finally,
he pointed out, with singular precision, one or two
months before, the very day and hour when he was to
have an access of epilepsy. However, although
with' the faculty of foreseeing the its which were so
distant, nay, those which were never to take place, he
could not foresee
that, in two days, he should meet with
a fatal accident.
'
Without attempting to reconcile all that may, at first
sight, appear contradictory in such a case, the commit-
tee would request you to observe, that the provision of
Casot related 'only to his fits ; that it was restricted to
the consciousness of the 'organic modifications which
were preparing, and which took place in him, as the
necessary result of the internal functions ; that this pre-
vision, although more extensive, is quite similai-"to that
of some
epileptic patients, who recognise the approach
of a fit by certain precursory symptoms, such as head-
ach, giddiness, moroseness, the aura Is it
smprising, then, that the somnambnlists, whose sensi-5
bility, as you have seen, is extremely lively, should be
capable nf foreseeing their tits a long time before, in-_
conseqnenceof some symptoms or internal impressions,
which escape the waking man ? <
It is in this manner,-
gentlemen, that we might explain the prevision attest'
ed by Aretaeus in two passages of his immortal works;
by Sauvage, who relates an instance of it, and by Ca-
banis. V
We may add, that the provision of Casot was
272 srrlanmx, No. 1. _
'
not rigorous and absolute, but conditional, inasmuch as,
when predicting a fit, he announced that it would not
take place provided he were magnetised, and, in reali-
¢y, it dia not take place ; it was
altogether organic usa
internal. Thus we can conceive how he did not fore-,
see an event altogether external, viz. that he should
accidentally meet a restive horse, that he should have
the imprudence to attempt to stop it, and that he should
receive a mortal wound. He might, then, have fore-
seen a fit which was never to take place. It is the
hand of a watch, which, in a given time, ought to tra-
verse a certain portion of the circle of the dial-plate,
and which does not describe it, because the watch hap-
pens to be broken. -
In the two preceding cases, we have presented you
with two very remarkable instances of intuition, of that
faculty which is developed during somnambulism, and
by virtue of which two magnetised individuals perceived
the diseases with which they were afected, pointed out
the treatment requisite for their cure, announcing the
term, and foreseeing the crises. The case
of_which we
are now about to present you wiil an analysis, awa»
kened in us a new species of interest. Here the mag-
netised person, plunged into somnambulism, determines
the diseases of others, with whom she is placed in mag-
netic connexion, describes their nature, and points out
the proper remedies. _
»
_
_
Mademoiselle Celine Sauvage was placed in estate
nsronr _oN Ammu. MAGNETISM. 273
of somnambulism, in presence of the committee, on the
18th and 21st of Apr-il,'the 17th of June, the 9th of
August, the 23d of December 1826, and 18th and 17th
of January, and 21st of February 1827. -
§In passing into the state of somnambulism, she ex-
perienced a coolness of several degrees, appreciable by
_the thermometer, her tongue, from being moist and
llexible, became dry and wrinkled, her breath, until
then sweet, became fetid and repulsive. `: _
._
'
~
_The sensibility was
almost entirelyannihilated du#
ring the continuance of_ her sleep, for. she made six in-
spirations, having a bottle' filled hydrochloric acid
-under.her_nostri1s, .without manifesting any emotion.
-M. Marc pinched her wrist; a needle used in acupunc-
ture was_thmst to the depth of three lines into he: left
thigh; another, to the depth of two lines, into her left
wrist; These two needles were united by means of a
galvanic conductor; very perceptible convulsive mo-
tions were produced in the hand; and Mademoiselle
Celine seemed quite unconscious of that was done
to her. She heard the voices of persons who spoke
close to her and touched her; but she did not remark
the noise of two plates which were broken beside her.
It was while she was sunk in this 'state of somnam-
bulism, that the committee recognised in' her three
times the faculty of discoursing upon the diseases of
other persons whom she touched," and of_ pointing ont
the appropriate remedies.
274 .u>Px-:Nn1x,_No. 1.
'
The committee found, amongst its own members, one
who was willing to submit to the investigations of this
somnambulist. This was M. Marc. Mademoiselle
Celine was requested to examine attentively our cob
league's state of health. V
She applied her hand to his
forehead, and to the region of the heart, and in the
course of. three minutes, she said that the blood had s
tendency to.the head; that, at that moment, M. Mare
had pain on the leitside of this cavity; that he cha
felt an. oppression, especially after having eaten; thst
he must oiien have a
slight cough; that the lower pert
of the breast wasigorged with blood; that something
the alimentary passage; that this part (point-
ing to the region of the xiphoid cartilage) was contract-
ed; that to cure M. Marc, itwas eneoessarythat-he
should be copiously bled; that cataplasms of hemlock
should be-applied, and that the lower part of the breast
should be rubbed with laudannm ; that he should drink
gummed lemonade; that he should eat little andfrea
quently, and
that he should not take exercise imme-
diately nfter having made a meal. .
We were anxiousto learn from M. Marc whether- he
experienced all that this -somnambulist had announced.
He told us that, in reality, he felt an
oppression when
he walked upon 'leaving the table ;~ that, as she an#-
nounoed, he frequently had a
cough; and that, betbre
this experiment, he had felt pain in the left side of -the
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
head, but that he was not sensible of any`impedime'nt
in the alimentary passage.
~
~
We were struckewith. this analogy between`the feel*
ings of M. Marc and the announcement of the somnam=
bulist; we noted it with care, and awaited another op#
portunity of procuring ai new confirmation of the exist-
ence-of this singular faculty. This opportunity 'was
presented to. the reporter,_without his having sought
it,~hy the mother ofa young' lady, whom he had at*
tended for a
veny.short time.
A
~
.
i
I
The patient wasfrom twenty-three to 'twentyvivé
years of age, and had been amicted, for about 'two
years, -with dropsyofi the abdomen (ascites), accompa-
nied- with a number of obstructions, some of the sizrof
anegg, some of the size of the list, others as
largest
a child's head, which were situated- principally' on the
left side of .the belly. The _.belly externallywas urh
equal and corrugated; and these inequalities comen-
ponded tozthe obstructions which had their seat with~
in the abdomen. M. Dupuytren had already punc'
tured this patient ten or twelve times, and had always
withdrawn a
large quantity of clear, limpidalbunien,
without smell, and without any mixture. An allevia-
tion¢ of thesymptoms always followed this operation.
The reporter was once present at this operation,
and- it was easy for M. Dupuytrenand him to 856015
tain the size and the haltduessof these tumours, and,
consequently, to
become sensible of their inability to
276 APPENDIX, No. 1.
cure this patient. Nevertheless, they prescribed dife-
rent remedies, and they attached some
importance to
the putting Mademoiselle -_---
upon a
regimen of
goat's milk, the goat having been previously subjected
to mercurial frictions.
V
Upon the 21st of Febmary 1827, the reporter went
in search of M. Foissac and Mademoiselle Celine, and
conducted them to a house _ in _the Rue Faubonuy
du Roule, without mentioning the name, or the resi-
dence, or the nature of the disease, of the person whom
he' wished to ubmit to the examination of the som-
nambulist. :
'
-
The patient did, not appear in the room where the
experiment was made until M. Foissac had set Made-
moiselle Celine asleep, and then,after having placed a
hand of the one in that of the other, she examined her
during eight minutes, not as a
physician would do, by
pressing the abdomen, by percussion, by scrutinising it
in 'every way;.but merely by applying her hand re-
peatedly to the stomach, the heart, the back, and the
head.
'
Being interrogated as to what she observed in Made-
moiselle -;-, she answered that the whole belly was
diseased, that there was in it a scirrhus_and'a large
quantity of water on the side of the spleen; that the
intestines were
very much puH'ed up; that there were
pouches containing worms; that there were swelling!
of the size of an
egg, containing a' puriform matter,
nnroxvr ON ANIMAL Mseuznsm. 277
and that these swellings must be painful; that at the
bottom of the stomach, there was an obstructed gland
(glancle engorgée), of the thickness of three of _her
lingers; that this gland was in the interior of the sto-
mach, and must injure the _digestion; that the .disease
was of old standing; and, linally, that Mademoiselle
must have headache. She prescribed the u e of a
diet-
drink of borage and nitrated Peruvianbark (P) (chiena
ennitrée), five ounces of the juice of parietary taken
every morning, and a
very little _mercury taken milk.
She added, that the milk of a
goat, which had been
rubbed with mercurial' ointment half an hour .before
drawing it oh; would be the most proper! Besides,
she prescribed cataplasms of Bowers of
elder constantly
applied to the belly, frictions of this cavity with oil of
laurel, or, instead of it, with the juice of this shrub
combined with the oil of sweet almonds, a
clyster com-
posed of a decoction of Peruvian bark (kim), mixed
with an emollient decoction. The diet should consist
of white' meats, milk and Hour, and no lemon. She al-
lowed very little wine, a little orange-Bower rum, or
the liqueur of spiced mint. This treatment was not
'
Without attaching much importance to this singular agreement
between the prescription made by the somnambnlist of the milk of a
goat rubbed with mercurial ointment, and the same prescription recom-
mended to the patient by M. Dupuytren and the reporter, the com-
mittee were bound to notice this coincidence in their report. It
presented ss a fact, of which the reporter guarantees the authenticity,
but of which no explanation can be given.
~
'-
278
'
nrnunix, No. 1.
followed; and if it had, it could not have saved the pa-
tient. She died a
year afterwards. As the body was
not opened, we could not verify what had been said by
the somnambulist.
Upon an occasion of great delicacy, when very able
physicians, several of whom are members of the Aca-
demy, had prescribed a mercurial treatment for an ob-
struction fengnrgementj of the glands of the neck,
which they attributed to a
syphilitic_taint, the family
of the patient under this treatment, alarmed at the ap-
pearance of some serious consequences, wished to have
the advice of a somnambulist. The reporter was called
in to assist at a consultation ; and he did not neglect to
take advantage of this new opportunity of adding to
what the committee had already seen. He found a
young married woman, Madame La C-, having the
whole right side of the neck deeply obstructed by a
great congeries of glands close upon each other. One
of them was opened, and emitted a
yellowish purulent
matter.
Mademoiselle Celine, whom M. Foissac magnetised
in presence of the reporter, placed herself in oonnexion
with this patient, and ailirmed that the stomach had
been attacked by a substance like poison ; that there was
a slight inflammation of the intestines ; that, in the up-
per part of the neck, on the right side, there was a
scrofulous complaint, which ought to have been more
considerable than it was at present; that, by following
aaron? QN ANIMAL Maqurxrrsu. 279
a soothing treatment, which she prescribed, the disease
would he mitigated in the course of iiiieen daysor three
weeks. This treatment consisted of-some 'grains of
magnesia, eight _leeches applied to the ,pit of the sw-
mach,fwate.r-gruel, a saline cathartic everynweek, two
clysters each day+one of .a decoctionof Peruvian bark
(kina),,and, immediately after, another of the roots of
the marsh-mal1ow,+friction_of the-limbs with ether, a
bath every week; food made of milk (lawage), iight
meats, and abstinence from wine. This treatment was
followed for some time, and _there was a perceptible
amelioration of the_ symptoms. _But the impatience of
the patient, who did not think her recovery proceeding
with sumcientrapidity, determined the family to call
another consultationof physicians, who decided that she
should again be placed under mercurial treatment.
From this period, the reporter ceased to attend the
patient; and he learnt that the administration of the
mercury had produced very serious afections of the
stomach, which terminated her existence, after two
months of acute sufering. A procés-verbal upon open-
ing the body, signed by MM. Fouquier, Maljolin, (hu-
veillier and Foissac, veriiied the existence of a |crofu~
lous .or tubercular obstruction of the glands of the neck,
two small cavities full of pus, proceeding from
the tn-
berelee at the top of each of the lungs; themucous
llemhranecof the. great cial-dewac of the stomach was
almost entirely destroyed. -These ,gentlemen ascer=
280 Arran mx, No. 1.
tained, besides, that there was no indication of the pre-
sence of any syphilitic disease, whether old or recent.
A
From the preceding observations it follows, l, That
in the state of somnambulism, Mademoiselle Celine point-
ed out the diseases of three individuals, with whom
she was placed in magnetic connexion. 2, That the
declaration of the first, the examination which was made
of the other after three punctures, and the post mornin
examination of the third, were found to correspond with
the annunciations of the somnamhnlist.
u
3, That the
different modes of treatment which she prescribed do
not exceed the limits of that circle of remedies with
which she might have been acquainted, nor the order
of the things which she might reasonably recommend;
and, 4, That she applied them with a species of dis-
cernment.
'
-ili__.l___,
_
To all these facts which we have so
laboriously col-
lected, which we have observed with so much distrust
and attention, which we have endeavoured to classify in
such a manner as
might best enable you to follow the
development of the phenomena which we witnessed,
which we have, above all, exerted ourselves to present
to you disengaged from all those accessory circum-
stances which might have embarrassed or
perplexed
REPORT ou ANIMAL MAGNE1'1sM. 28l
the narrative; we
might add those which ancient, and
even modern history have recorded on the subject of
previsions which have frequently been realized, on the
cures efectuated by the imposition of the hands, on ec-
stasies, onthe convnlsionaries, on oracles, on hallucina-
tions; in short, on all that, remote from those physical
phenomenawhich may be explained upon the principle
of the action of one body upon another, enters into the
domain of physiology, and may be considered as an ef-
fect depending upon a moral influence not appreciable
by the senses. _
But the committee was appointed for
the
purpose of investigating somnambnlism, for _
the
purpose of making experimentsrelative to this phe-
nomenon, which had not been studied by the commis-
sioners of 1784, and of reporting to yon. We shonld,
then, have exceeded the limits prescribed to our inqui-
ries, if, in attempting to support that which we
ourselves
had seen by the authorityof others who had observed
analogous, phenomena, we had _swelled out our report
with facts which was foreign to it We have related
with impartiality what we
have seen_ with distrust; we
have exposed in order what we have observed in dife-
rent circumstances,-what we have prosecuted with the
most anxious, minute, and unremitted attention. We
are conscious that the report which we
present to you
is the faithful exposition of all we have observed. The
obstacles which we have encountered in our
progress
voL. 1 I. A a
282 APPENDIX, No. 1.
are known' to you. They are, in some measure, the
cause of the delay which has taken place in presenting
our report, although the materials have been for a
long
time in our hands. Nevertheless, we are far from wish-
ing to excuse ourselves or- to complain of this delay,
since it confers upon our observations a' character of
maturity and of reserve, which ought to secure your
confidence in the facts which we relate, divested of that
prejudice and enthusiasm with which you might have
reproached us, had we collected them in haste. We
may add, that we arefar from thinking that we have
seen all; we do not, therefore, pretend to desire you to
admit, as an axiom, that there is nothing positive in
magnetism beyond what we have noticed in our
report.
Far from setting limits to this part of physiological
science, we hope, on the contrary, that a new field has
been opened up to it; and warranting the authenticity
of our own observations, presenting them with confi-
dence to those who, after ns, may wish to engage in
the investigation of magnetism, we shall only deduce
from them the following
an-:roar on ANIMAL Mxerwrxsm. 283
CONCIJUSIONS.
The conclusions of the report are the result of the
observations of which it is composed.
1. The contact of the thumbs or of the hands ; fric-
tions, or certain gestures which are made at a small
distance from the body, 'and are called Paues, are the
means
employed to place ourselves in magnetic con-
nexion, or, in other words, to transmit the magnetic
influence to the patient.-(Pp. 208, 204.)
2. The means which are external and visible are not
always necessary, since, on _many occasions, the will,
the iixed look, have been found sullicient to produce
the magnetic phenomena, even without the knowledge
of the patient.-(Pp. 260, &c., 263, 266.)
8. Magnetism has taken effect upon persons of dif-
ferent sexes and ages.
4. The time required for transmitting the magnetic
iniuence with effect, has varied from half an hour to a
minute(
"
5. In general, magnetism does not act upon persons
in a sound state of health.-(P. 205.)
l
284 arrannrx, No. 1. _
Z
6. Neither does it act upon all sick persons.-
(P. sos.) Q
-
7. Sometimes, during the process of magnetising,
there are manifested insignificant and evanescent efects,
which cannot be attributed to magnetism alone; such as
a
slight degree of oppression, of heat or of cold (p. 209),
and some other nervous phenomena, which can be ec-
plained without the intervention of, a
particular agent
(p. 2l0),_upon the principle of hope or of fear, preju-
dice and the novelty of the treatment, the ennui pro-
duced by the monotony of the gestures (p. 212), the
silence and repose in which the experiments are made;
finally, by the imagination, which has so much influence
on some minds and on certain organizations.-(Pp. 212-
21s.)
'
8. A certain number of the efects observed appeared
to us to depend upon magnetism alone, and were never
produced without its application. These are well esta-
blished physiological and therapeutic phenomena.-
(Pp. 216-218, 249, sw.)
9. The real eiects produced by magnetism are
very
various. It agitates some, and soothes others. Most
commonly, it occasions a
momentary acceleration of the
respiration and of the circulation (p. 209), fugitive fibril-
lary convulsive motions, resembling electric shocks
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 285
(pp. 2l7-231), a numbness in a
greater or less degree
(p. 216), heaviness, somnolency (ibzd), and in a small
number of cases, that which the magnetizers call som~
nsmbulism. -
10. The existence of an uniform character, to enable
us to recognise, in every case, the reality of the state
of somnambnlism, has not been established;-(Pp. 228,
232-ess.)
ll. However, we
may conclude with certainty that
this state exists, when it gives rise to the development
of 'new faculties, which have been designated by the
names of clairvoyanee (pp. 241-246, _255_25s); intuitzbn
(p. 249); internal prevision (pp. 251, 259, 260); or
when it produces great changes in the physical econo-
my, such as insensibility (pp. 222, 228, 285-239, 251) ;
a sudden and considerable increase of strength (pp. 258,
260); and when these efects cannot be referred to any
other cause.-(Pp. 235, 236, 237, 238.)
12. As among the effects attributed to somnambu-
lism there are some which may be feigned, somnambu-
lism itself may be feigned, and furnish to quaekery the
means' of deception._( Pp. 225, 226, 227.)
Thus, in the observation of those phenomena which
do not present themselves again but as insulated facts,
it is only by means of the most attentive scrutiny, the
286 Arrnnmx, No. 1. -
most rigid precautions, and numerous and varied expe-
riments, that we can
escape illusion.
13. Sleep produced with more or less promptitude,
is a real, hut not a constant eilbct of magnetism._
(P. 249.)
14. We hold it as demonstrated that it has been pro-
duced in circumstances, in which the persons magne-
tised could not see or were
ignorant of the means em-
ployed to occasion it.-(Pp. 216, 263.)
15. When a person has once been made to fall into
the magnetic sleep, it is not- alwaysunecessary to have
recourse to contact, in order to magnetise him anew.
The look of the magnetiser, his volition alone, possess
the same ininence.-(P. 260.) We=can not only act
upon the magnetised person, hut even place him in a
complete state of somnamhnlism, and bring him out of
it without his knowledge, out of his sight, at a certain
distance, and with doors intervening___(PP. 262-264.)
16. In general, changes, more or less remarkable,
are
produced upon the perception and other mental fa-
culties of those individuals who fall into somnamhnlism,
in consequence of magnetism.
-a. Some persons, amidst the noise 'of a confused cou-
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 287
versation, hear only the voiceof their magnetizer; se-
veral answer
precisely the questions he puts to them,
or which are addressed to.them by _those individuals
with whom they have been placed in magnetic con-
nexion; others carry on conversation with all the per-
sons around them. ~
Nevertheless, it is seldom that they hear what is
passing around them. During the greater part of the
time, they are
completely strangers to the 'external and
unexpected noise which ismade close to their earl,
such as the sound of copper vessels struck briskly near
them, the fall ofa piece of furniture, &c¢-(P. 286.)
b. The eyes are closed, the eyelids yield with diBi-
culty to the_ eiforts which are made-to open them; this
operation, which is notewithout pain, shows' the ball
of the eye convulsed, and carried upwards, and some-
times towards the lower part of the orbit,-(P. 242.)
c. Sometimesithe power of smelling appears to be
annihilated. They may be made to inhale muriatic
acid, or ammonia, without feeling any inconvenience,
nay, without perceiving it.--(P. 222.) The contrary
takes place in certain cases, and they retain the sense
of smelling. _
d. The greater number of the somnamhulists whom
we have seen, were completely insensible. We might
tickle their feet, their nostrils, and theangle of the
eyes, with a feather-we might pinch their skin, so as
288 Arrnumx, No. 1.
to leave a mark, prick them with pins under the nails,
&c. without producing any pain, without eveni their
perceiving it.-(P. 26l.) Finally, we saw one who
was insensible to one of the most painful operations in
surgery,_and who did not manifest the slightest emo-
tion in her countenance, her pulse, or her respiration.
_(PP. 237-2389 _
17. Magnetism is as intense, and as
speedily felt,
at a distance of six feet, as of six inches; and the
phenomena developed are the same in both cases.-
(P. 26s.)
18. The action at a distance does not appear capable
of being exerted with success,1excepting upon indivi-
duals who have been already magnetised.
19. We only saw one person who fell into somnam-
bulism upon being magnetised for the iirst time. Some-
_times somnambnlism was not manifested until the Sth
or 10th sitting.--(P. 249.)
20. We have invariably seen the ordinary sleep,
_which is the repose of the organs of sense, of the intel-
lectual faculties, and_the voluntary motions, precede
and terminate the state of somnsmbulism;
21. VVhile in theistate of soxnnamhulism, the pa-
REPORT ou ANIMAL
MAGNETISM. 289
tients whom we have observed, retained the use of the
faculties which they possessed when awake. Even their
memory appeared to be more faithhll and more exten-
sive, because they remembered every thing that passed
at the time, and every time they were placed in the
state of somnambulism.
i
_
22. Upon awaking, they said they had totally for-
gotten the circumstances' which _took place during the
somnambulism, ,and _never recollected them. For this
fact we can have no other authority than their_ own de-
clarations.
28. The muscular powers of somnambulists are some-
times benumbed and paralysed. At other times, their
motions are constrained, and the somnambulists walk
or totter about like drunken men, sometimes avoiding,
and sometimes not avoiding, the obstacles which may
happen to be in their way.-(P.246.)' There are some
somnambulists who preserve entire the power of mo-
tion; there _are even some who display more strength
and agility than in their waking state.--(Pp. 252, 258,
255, 260.)
`
24. We have
-seen two somnambulists who distin-
guished, with their eyes closed, the objects which were
placed _before them (p. 248); they mentioned the co-
vor.._u. is b
290 arrnumx, No. 1.
lour and the value of cards, without touching them
(p. 256); they read words traced with the hand (pp.
256-257), as also some lines of books opened at ran-
dom. This phenomenon took place even when the
eyelids were kept exactly closed with the fingers._
(Ibid.)
'
25. In two somnambnlists we found the faculty of
foreseeing the acts of the organism more or less re-
mote, more or less complicated. One of them an-
nounced repeatedly, several months previously, the day,
the hour, the minute of the access, and of the return
of epileptic fits.-(Pp. 260-261, 267.) The other an-
nounced the period of his cure.-(P. Their pre-
visions were realized with remarkable exactnessi They
appeared to us to apply onlyto acts or injuries of their
organism.
26. We found onlya single somnamhulist who point-
ed out the symptoms of the diseases of three* persons
with whom she was
placed in magnetic connexion.
We had, however, made experiments upon a consider-
able number.-(P. 276, &c.)
27. In order to establish, with any degree of exact-
ness, the connexion between magnetism md
tics, it wouldbe necessary to have observed its chess
upon a great number of individuals, and to have made
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETIBM. 291
experiments every day; for a. long time, upon the same
patients. As this did not take place with us, your
Committee could only mention what they perceived in
too small a number of cases to enable them to pro-
nopnoe any judgment.
28. Some of the magnetised patients felt no
from the treatment Others experienced a' more or
less decided relief: vii. one, the suspemimr of
pam. (P: 211); Maier, :nr rem-if df ms strehgili; 1
third, the retardecifon for several meifths of his epilep-
¢i¢ ne (amy me siburth are eomplete me df rw
rions pimlym of lang mraa»g._(P. 248; Src.)
29. Considered- es a cause of certain physiologibal
phenomena, or as' a' therapentie remedy,
ought to be sllnwéd e place within the circle of the ine-
dieal sciences; sind; consequently, physicians' only
practise it," of slrperihtend its use, as is the ease in' the
northern ebniitriei.
80L Your Committee hive' not been able to verify,
hemuse they had nb opportunity of doing so, other fai
eulties which the had axinoiineed as exist-
ing in sbmnimbmisfs; Bixt they we communicated
in their report hats of snihcient to entitle
to thihk, that the Academy ought to encourage
the investigation into the subject of Animal Magm-
292 APPENDIX, No. 1.
tism, as a very curious branch of p ychology and natu-
ral
history.
Arrived at the termination of our labours, before
closing this report, your Committee have asked them-
selves, whether, in the precautions which we have mul-
tiplied around us, in order to avoid all surprise; whether
in the feeling of continual distrust with which alleour
proceedings were conducted; whether, in the examina-
tion of the phenomena observed, we have scrupulously
fulfilled our commission. »
What other course could we
have followed P What means more certain could we
have adopted P With what distrust more decided and
more discreet could we have been actuated? Our con-
science, gentlemen, proudly answers, that you could
expect nothing from us but what we have done. In
short, have we been honest, exact and faithful observers?
It is for you who have long been acquainted with us,
for you who see us continually near
you, whether in
the intercourse of the world, or at our frequent meet-
ings-it is for you to answer this question. Your an-
swer, gentlemen, we expect from the long friendship
of some of you, and from the esteem of all.
Indeed, we dare not-Hatter ourselves with the hope
of making you participate entirely in our conviction of
the reality of -the phenomena which we have observed,
and-__wl1iqh_you have -neither seen, norfollowed, not
m-:Pour on ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 293
studied along with us. We do not, therefore, demand
of you a blind belief of all that we have reported. We
conceive that a
great proportion of these facts are of a
nature so extraordinary, that you cannot accord them
such a credence. Perhaps we ourselves might have
dared to manifest a similar incredulity, if; in changing
characters, you came to announce them here to ns,
who, like you, at present, had neither seen, nor ob-
served, nor studied, nor followed any thing of the
kind.
We only request that you would judge us, a we
should judge you-that is to say, that you be com-
pletely convinced, that neither the love of the marvel-
lous, nor the desire of celebrity, nor any views of in-
terest whatever, induenced us
during our labours. We
were animated by higher motives and more worthy of
you-by the love of science, and by an
anxiety to jus-
tify the expectations you had formed of our zeal, and
of our devotion.
Signed by Bovnnols DE LA Mo'r'rE, President;
Fovoumn, GUENEAU DE Mussv, GuEas1:N'r, Hussox,
I'rAnD, J. J. Lmcoux, Mano, THILLAYE.
Note. MM. Double and Magendie did not consider
themselves entitled to sign the Report, as they had not
assisted in making the experiments.
(295)
No. II.
ON THE SINGULAR PHENOLIENON OF THE TEANSFERENCE
OF THE FACULTIES FROM THEIR USUAL AND APPBO°
PBIATE ORGANS TO THE EPIGASTRIUH AND OTHER
PARTS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, WHICH HAS BEEN
OCCASIONALLY OBSERVED TO OCCUB IN CASES OF CA-
TALEPSY AND SOMNAHBULISM. _
"
Omnis verior interpretslio Nature coaiicitur per instmtias, et
expe-
riments idonea et apposita ; ubi sensus de experimento tantum, ex-
perimentum de Natura, et re ipsa judicat."-Bacon, N. Ofyasnnn.
Noi; ij ss) ni; nxniu frilla xupai mx? fruQ).ni.
Epichami.
Cernit mimus, animus audit ; reliqua surda et cceca sunt.
In reviewing the history of knowledge, it is impos-
sible to withhold our assent from the observation made
by Bacon, and repeated by many of his most eminent
that there is nothing more detrimental to the
progress of philosophical discovery, than the formation
of exclusive systems of science. It is, no doubt, natu-
ral to reflecting minds, to endeavour to bring the dif-
ferent hranches of their aoqnirements into systematic
arrangement; this method, under proper regula~
296 APPENDIX, No. u.
`
tions, and with due precautions, can he productive of
no harm, but, on the contrary, may even facilitate their
own studies and those of others. The great danger
lies-and this could be proved from the whole history
of philosophy-in setting arbitrary limits to
science; so
that, when we
happen to stumble upon any new or un-
usual phenomena, which appear to be irrecondleable
with our
preconceived opinions, instead of being in-
duced to suspect any imperfection in our system, we feel
inclined to overlook the incompatible facts, to resort to
immediate and unqualified rejection, and to make every
possible effort to exclude the obnoxious and unwelcome
intruders. Systematic pride engenders scientific blind-
ness.
To none of the sciences are these observations more
applicable than to physiology. Almost every writer on
the subject agrees in pointing out and lamenting its
barrenness in respect to carefully observed facts, and
the general propensity to speculate, within its territory,
upon ambiguous, erroneous, or insuilicient data. The
sciences of physiology and psychology, indeed, have
many acquisitions yet to make; we are still, confessedly,
ignorant of many of the functions and capabilities of eer-
tain portions of the corporeal organism, as well as of
the various modes in which they are liable to be af-
fected by the powers and processes of nature. Of the
basis of the mental manifestations we know little, and
even that little is almost entirely hypothetical. We-
'raANsr|:nENcr: or sENsA'r1oN. 297
have yet to-learn to distinguish between the intellect
and the sensibility in the human constitution, to observe
their different phenomena, and, ifpossible, to ascertain
anddiscriminate their respective sources. And yet, in
this avowedly imperfect science, as in others, the sys-
tem of exclusion has been unhappily permitted to pre#
vail, and philosophers have exhibited a determined- re-'
luctance to admit any new facts, however well autheni
t-icated, when they appeared to militate against priu-_
ciples previously established upon a false or inadequate'
induction. '
~
~
In these circumstances, at the risk of incurring the
imputation of an irrational credulity, I
am about to di#
rect the attention of scientific men to certain very sin-4
gular phenomena, occasionally occurring in cases of ca-
talepsy and somnambulism,`which, as it appears to me,
have not, in this country at least, been hitherto sni-
ciently known Aor' investigated, although they are nn-
questionably calculated to open up many new and most
important views in physiological and psychological
science, if not to operate an entire change upon the
principles established in these departments of know-
ledge. I am aware, indeed, that the facts to be brought
underunotiee must appear, at first sight, so very extra-
ordinary, and so utterly unaccountable upon any known'
philosophical principle, that they will probably be re-<
jected by many at once, and, without farther inquiry,-
as absurd and altogether incrediblef Some, perhaps,
298 arrsumx, no. u.
may feel disposed to class them among those deceptions
which, for some selfish purpose, have been frequently
practised upon the crednlity of the multitude by em-
piries and impostors. But before adopting such a
hasty conclusion, it would undoubtedly be more philo-
sophical to consider the character and probable motives
of the observers-to weigh, carefully and impartially,
the evidence by which the facts in question are sup-
pqrtedwto reflect attentively upon their connexion
and analogy with each other-to ascertain the conclu-
sim w which they nméauy lead, ma, 'if pmibls, me
names to which they may be rationally ascribed. Let
us satisfy ourselves, in short, of the credibility of the
authorities, the accuracy of the experiments, and the
reality and unambiguous nature of the facts. Let ue
remember, too, at the same time, that it is no
good
ground for rejecting a fact alleged to have been ob-
served by competent wituesses, that, in the present
state of our knowledge, we cannot immediately explain
its cause.
There are more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in our
philosophy!
To be assured, upon satisfactory evidence, that a
het, however extraordinary it may appear, is true,
ought to be a suilieient incentive to farther inquiry;
and it is only by means of accurate experiments, and a
cautious inductive investigation, that we een hope, at
'rnsnsrnnnucn or snnsacrxon. 299
length, to become acquainted with the causes of the
more mysterious phenomena of nature."
Van Helmont informs ns that, at one time, he enter-
tained an opinion, that many strong poisons might be
employed with advantage as remedies, if we only knew
how to regulate the doses, and to administer them at
the proper time. In order to enable him to ascertain
this fwt he resolved to mnke some experiments upon
himself with the- napellgu ; and, accordingly, having
rudely prepared a root, he tasted it with the. point qt'
his tongue. He swallowed none of it, aadspst ont a
good deal of saliva. At first, he felt as if his hnad»wg|
bound tightly with a
bandage; and soon aiierwapds,
the following symptoms occurred :-He perceived, with
astonishment, that he no longer thought, knot.
or imagined anything by means of -the cerebral organs,
but that all their ordinary and peculiar functions ap-
peqred to be mnsfen-ed to the 4@i9¢'¢"i"l, or pit of
00 Qfnmwll- TNS, he says, he perceived clearly H141
distinctly, and he the greatest attention to it. His
head still retained motion and feeling; but the reason-
ing faculty had passed to the epigastrium, as if his in-
tellect had taken up its residence in that part of the
organism. Struck with surprise and wonder
' "
Qnieqnid oritur, qusleeunqne est, csusam hsbest s nsturs ne-
eesse est; ut etism si prseter consuetndinem exstiterit, pmtar matte!
tamen non
possit existere. Csussm igitur investigate in re nova stque
sdmirsbili, si potes; si nullam repsries, illud hmen exploratum
nihil ini wmiv wmv f°f=°w==, sum rd neviw
sftvlvrit- '»§°»° www 'l°l}9m¥°~"#C|¢!§°| D=
800 APPENDIX, No. u.
at this' unusual phenomenon, he studied himself care-
fully, observed all that he experienced, examined all
his ideas, and felt that, during the whole continuance
of this extraordinary state, his intellect, thus apparently
transferred, possessed more than its usual energy and
acuteness. This state lasted two hours, after which he
experienced' two attacks of vertayo. During the first,
he felt that a new
change was
going on within him;
and after thesecond, he found himself in his ordinary
state. Van Helmont adds, that he afterwards re-
peatedly tried the same
experiment with the napellus,
but that he never succeeded in obtaining the same re-
sult.'
This case of Van Helmont may be considered by
some as little more than a common instance of deli-
rium; and had it stood alone, it would scarcely have
deserved any particular notice. It appears to me, how-
ever, to present some features analogous to those which
have been observed to occur in other cases, to be after-
wards noticed, in which the phenomena were, with some
variations, more
decidedly developed; 'and I have,
therefore, thought proper to refer to it at the outset,
asiprobnbly belonging to the same class, although ex-
hibiting only the incipient stage of that very singular
organic state, of which I have undertaken to demon-
mate the occasional existence.1° -
'
Van Helmont, Denim: idea, sect. ll, et seq. .
1 I sm doubtful whether I ought to include under this description,
that species of ecstatic delirium produced by the respiration of the ni-
'rn/lusrsnzucs or SENSATION. 801
These curious observations of Van Helmont do not
appear to have attracted any attention, or
given_ riseto
any experimental investigation, at the time. They
either passed entirely unnoticed, or seem to have been
considered by the leamed as a
merely fanciful conceit
of this extraordinary and eccentric genius. _
About a
century and a half after the time of Van
Helmont, however, the singular phenomena he observed
seemed to derive a decisive coniinnation, while others
of a still more surprising character were elicited, by
the following experiments which were made in France.
AM. Petetin, an eminent physician, and Honorary and
Perpetual President of the Medical Society of Lyons,
made a
variety of experiments, with a view to verify
this fact of the transference of the faculties to the epi-
trous oxide gas. Sir Humphry Davy has given the following account
of his sensations, while under the induence of this intoxicating Enid :
'
"
By degrees, as the pleasurable sensations increased, I lost all con-
nexion with external things; trains of vivid visible images rapidly pass-
ed through my mind, and were connected with words in snch` a man-
ner, as to produce perceptions perfectly novel, I existed in a world
of newly modiied ideas. I theorized; l imagined that I made disco-
veries. When I was awakened from this semi-delirious trance, my
emotions were enthusiastic and sublime; and for a minute I walked
round the room
perfectly regardless of what was said to me. As I re-
covered my former state of mind, I felt an inclination to communicate
the discoveries I made during the experiment. I endeavoured to reeal
the ideas; they were feeble and indistinct ; one collection of terms,
however, presented itself; and with the most intense belief and pro-
phetic manner, I exclaimed, Nothing exists but thoughts! the universe
iscomposed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and pains I"-Researches,
ye. London, 1800.
802 ~
Arrnunrx, No. n.
gastric region. These experiments arose from an ac-
cident. He had a cataleptic patient, who appeared io
be, for a
long time, in a state of absolute insensibility.
No stimulant had any efect upon her; her eyes and
ears had entirely lost the powerof receiving sensations.
M. Petetin, however, was
greatly astonishedbythe ab-
cidental discovery, that she heard him perfectly when
he spoke upon her stomach. Having satisied hiinseif
of this fact by repeated trials, he afterwards perceived
that the case was the same in regard to the of
sight and smell. The cataleptic patient read with 'the
stomach, even through an intervening opaque body.
At last, he found that it was not necessary for him to
speak immediately upon the stomach; but that it was
quite sulicient to speak at the extremity of a conductor,
of which the other extremity rested upon the stomach
of the patient!
At the period when these experiments and discove-
ries were made, the doctrines of Animal Magndiun
had begun to excite considerable sensation, in consel
quence of the exertions of Mesmer and his followers.
M. Petetin, however, was by no means an advocate for
the Mesmerian system, of which, at that time, he does
not appear to have had any experimental knowledge.
On the contrary, his opinion with regard to that doc-
trine seems' to have coincided pretty nearly with that
°
Vide Memoirs sur la dscouverte dei phendtiierilil que preséuliiit
lacatalcpsie etle |0mll|llbl1i|B0, kc. Par M. Petatin, kc. 1787.
TRANSFERENCE OF SENSATION. ¢ 808
contained in the report of the first French Commis-
sioners. The magnetic crises he considered as very
dangerous, and ascribed them principally to the in-
Huence of the imagination. He endeavoured to account
ibr the phenomena, evolved by his own
expe-
riments, upon a peculiar theory of animal electricity
which, at n
subsequent period, was-
sumciently refuted
by M. Lnllier Winslow and others,' and of which,
therefore, it appears unnecessary to take any more pen
ticular notice;
Some years other the publication of the memoir, of
which some account has just been given, M. Petetin
found other cataleptic and somnnmhnlic "patients, who
exhibited precisely the same phenomena as the former;
with this diference, that, in some of
the cases, the fa-
culties were found to be transferred, not only to the
cpigaslrium, but also to the extremities of the fingers
and
The Nets, indeed, which were brought to' light in
the course' of these experiments, are of a nature so
very extraordinary and surprising, that we should he-
sitate to admit them as well observed phenomena, with-
out the most clear, unsuspicious and incontrovertihle
evidence of credible individuals, well qualided, in every
re¢pect,'for conducting the investigation. Fortunate-
ly, in the present case, we' have not only tlie"a.dv|in4
'
Vide M. Corvi||rt's Journil de Medecinc, vol. 18th, for October
1809.
804 _ arrnumx, No. n.
tage of capable and attentive observers, butalso the
concurrent testimony home by a great variety of other
instances in which the same appearances were mani-
fested.
The experiments were tried by M. Petetin upon eight
diferent patients, all of whom exhibited the same
plie-
nomenon of the transference of the faculties to the epi-
gastrium, and to the extremities of the fingers and
toes; with the addition, as in the case of Van Hel-
mont, of a
prodigious development of the intellectual
powers, and a presentiment or foresight of their future
diseased symptoms.
~
The experiments were conducted in the following
manner :
M. Petetin secretly placed pieces of cake, biscuit,
tarts, &c. upon the stomach of one of these patients,
which was
immediately followed by the taste of the
particular article in the mouth. When the substance
was
enveloped in silk stuili no sensation was felt by
the patient; but the taste was immediately perceived
on removing the covering. An egg was covered over
with varnish, and the patient felt no taste until the var-
nish was removed. One of the patients distinguished
a letter addressed to her, which was folded four times,
inclosed in a semi-transparent box, and held in M. Pe-
tetin's hand upon her stomach!
'
Plutuch relates, that a
certaiugovernor of Cilicia wished to try
whether the oracle of Mopsus could read, without opening it, a sealed
note, containing the following words: "
Shall I lacriioe to thee s
'rmmsxvnanucn or SENSATION. -
305
-
A letter was placed 'upon the fingers of one of the
patients, who immediately said, "
If I were not dis-
creet, I could tell you the contents; but to prove that
I have read it, there are just two lines and a halfl"
The same
patient enumerated exactly the most remark-
able articles which were in the pockets of a whole com-
pany.
'
These phenomena are suiiiciently wonderful; but the
following experiments ailbrded still more surprising
results. .
Another patient, Madame de St Paul, was in
a state of as perfect somnambulism as the preceding,
only that, during the crisis,'she was
incapable of peak-
ing. She carried on a conversation, however, by means
of signs, with the Chevalier Dolomieu, brother to the
celebrated naturalist, who interrogated her mentally.
"
After placing the chain," says M. Petetin, "
upon
the epigaslrium of the patient, I gave the ring to M.
Dolomieu. No sooner had this gentleman touched his
lips, than the features- of Madame de St Paul expressed
attention. Every question addressed to her mentally
gave a new expression to her countenance, and pro-
duced a
great change upon that of the interrogator.
She ended by smiling, and making two approving signs
with her head. M. Dolomieu declared that this lady
had answered categorically to his thoughts."
white or a black ox?" The oracle returned the note unopened, with
the answer,
"
black."-Ptuuncs, On the Cessation qf Oracles.
voL.1|. _ _egg __ _
`
806 aifrnmxx, No. n.
M. Dolomieu then requested the patient to answer,
by adirmative or negative signs, to the questions which
he was about to put to her aloud. He succeeded in
making her express that what he had in his pocket was
asiversealwiththreesidegandthenameoftbpani-
mal engraved on his 811118-
Finally, it was found, in the course of these experi-
ments, that if several P0l'l0lll form aobaiu, the last
l1°'i"8 bi" bend "PV" the -the Pefifmh
the Erst, who is at the greatest distance, speaksiu the
hollow of his hand, the patient will hear perfectlylell ;
but will cease to hear even the loudest voice, if the
communication between the chain be interrupted by a
stick of sealing~wax.* .
The work of M. Petetind' in which these remark
able observations are recorded, was published after his
death, and contain a
variety of other singular facts,
which he still continued to explain upon his favourite
hypotheses of animal e1ecm?:ily, although he found rea-
'
I am aware that the greater part of these phenomena are sufcient
to atagger all belief; and there may bejndividuala who would have been
inclined to pest over the most wonderful of them unnoticed, in order
the more
readily to obtain credence for the others. I wel
unwilling,
however, to exhibit the evidence in an
imperfect or
garbled state. All
the facts rest upon the same respectable testimony-_they are all cog-
nected with each other, and have all been witnessed, and consequently
confirmed by other observers; as I trust I shall' be able to prove in the
sequel, to the satisfaction even of the most sceptical.
1 Electricité animals prouvee par la decouverte des phenombnee
phyaiques et moraux de la catalepsie hytterique, et de see varietia, Ste.
pf M. Petetin, aw. 1808.
'
'rnsusrnnnncn or SENSATION. 307-
son to change his opinion with respect te Animal Mag-
ndism, after becoming better acquainted with the sub-
ject- The accuracy of the experiments made by this
author, and the truth of the results, have, so far as I
am- aware, never been called in qneséon. They were
witnessed and attested by all the physicians- and learn-
ed man in Lyons and the neighbourhood-by MM.
Coladon, Ginet, Dominjon, Dolomieu, Ballanches, Jac-
quier, Martin de Saint-Genie, Eynard, &c. all 06 whom
declared that they hederepeated the experiments upon
Madmne de St Paul, and were perfectly convinced of
the reality of the phenomena.
[shall only add, upon the subject of these experi-
ments, that, in refuting the theory of Petetin, M. Lul-
lier W'mslow, in the paper already referred to, admit-
ted the accuracy of the facts, and the identity of the
phenomena with those which occur in the magnetic
practice; and he invited his brethren to make farther
experiments and observations with a view to coniirm
them.
I am not aware that the recommendation of M. Lul-
lier Winslow was
immediately attended to in lhance.
Cstalepsy, I believe, is by no means a common disease,
and it is possible, therefore, that opportunities of making
farther experiments, similar to those of M. Petetin, may
not have occurred to professional men. Some time af-
ter,. however, an account of a very curious case was
published in
Germany by the' Baron de Strombeck-
308 Arrnumx, No. u.
a case of spontaneous somnamhulism, in which pheno=
mena
equally remarkable with those recorded by Pe-
tetiu were observed, minuted, and attested, by three
eminent physicians besides the Baron himselil* Upon
first discovering the strange fact of the transference of
the faculties in this case, M. de Stromheck emphatically
observes, that "
he was as much horriliedas if he had
seen a
spectre." »
Dr Bertrand, the very respectable author of a work
upon Animal Magnetism and other writings, has shevrn
that the same phenomenon repeatedly appeared among
the Quakers ( Trembleurs) of the Cevennes, the Nuns
of Loudnn, and the Convulsionaries of St Medard.'|'
'
I-listoire de la gusrison d'un jeune personne par le
magnetisms anif
mal produit par la Nature elle-meme. Par un temoiu oculairs.
1 Du magnstisme animal eu France, par M. Bertrand. Paris, 1826.
"
L'exoreiste Surin, parlaut des religieuses de Loudun, dit qu'il
peut jurer devant Dieu et sur sou eglise, que plus de deux cents foia
elles lui ont decouvert des choses tres secretes eschées sn sa
pensee ou
en sa
personue. Ainsi dans Yalfaire de Marie Bucaille, cette meme
faculté est egalement mise en avant; je copie textuellement les deux
passages du faetum redigé en sa favour.
"
Le sionr curé de Golleville rapporte que ladite Buceaille etant dans
une ds ses extases, il lui mit une lettre dans la main au
sujet de lafemme
'd'un de ses amis qui étsit malalle; et qu'aussitot, sans avoir ouvert la
lettre ni entendu cs qu'en lui voulait, elle se mit a oifrir A Dieu dei
prisres pour cette personne, qu'elle nomma.
'
"
Le meme curé rapporte que pendent une autrs extase, ayant mis
un autre billet entre sesmsins, plié et eacheté, on un homme domain#
dait eelaircinsement sur plusienrs choses, elle repondit pertinsmmsnt aux
demandes qui lui etaient faites, sans ouvrir le billet."
With regard to the Convulsionaries of St Medard,' M. Bertrand
'rnausraasucs or snusxrxou. 309
The celebrated German physician and professor, Dr
Joseph Hank, in his very learned work, entitled Prax-
eos M#il!¢ Universw Prcecepta, (Lipsiaa, 181 7,) has
given along account of a curious and highly interest-
ing case of this description, which occurred in his own
practice, and in which several of the most extraordi-
nary facts mentioned by Petetin were
again witnes ed
and confirmed by competent observers. From this ac-
count I shall extract such of the particulars as illus-
trate the subject we are now
investigating.
Louisa Baerkmann, a married woman, twenty-two
years of age, was delivered of a child, which died soon
after birth. Some time after, the mother was seized
with a violent fever, accompanied with peculiar symp-
toms. She could not endure to be touched or moved,
lay continually upon her back, sufered excruciating
pain day and night, and scarcely slept. At first, she
submitted to medical treatment; but afterwards lost all
confidence in it, and followed the advice of certain em.
pirics and old women. In consequence of an acciden-
tal fright, in her state of extreme weakness, she'be-
quotcs the following passage from the work entitled Coup d'zil mr In
Coavulaionz:
'
"
'Un fait induhitabla, certihé par une fouls do penonnss de merits
at tres dignes do foi, qui l'ont vu et examine avec tout le soin et l'st-
tention possihles, est celui d'un convulsionnaire qui reconnait et dis-A
tingus par l'odorat, au
point do life cs qu'ou lui presents, quoiqu'ou
lui aouvre sxactcmsut les ysux avec un handsau tres epais, qui lui
dorobs sntieremeut la lumiersL La snpercherie na peut avoir ici do
lieu; uullc mal: dis no laurait yroduirs cet el`et,"bc.-See Bertrand,
pp. 451, kc.
3rl0 APPENDIX, no. u. .
came delirious, and afterwards exhibited some catalep-
tic symptoms. The patient, worn to a skeleton, re-.
jeoted all human advice, put her whole trust in God,
and prayed fervently day and night. After an inter-
val of a week, her delirium returned, accompanied with
singing, and a renewal of the oataleptic symptoms. At
length, she had two paroxysms every week regularly,
between four and live o'elool: in the aftomoon, in the
oourse of which she became first cataleptic, then eostaf
tio, and at last ended by singing, deploring her droadg
fill state, and praying aid from Heaven. Dr Frank
was at length called in, and found her in a most de-
plorable eondition, almost as if life=were extinct. In vain,
he called her by her name, and shook her by the arm.
She appeared to he quite insensible. This state lasted
a short .time, and then she. reooverewk and; had some
conversation with the Doctor, who consoled her as well
as he could, and took his departure. He returned in
the evening, and found her again immoveahle, and ap-
parently insensihle, with the exception of a certain slight
motion of the lips, as if she were praying and speak-
ing to herselfl In a short time, she began to sing, at
first in a low, and afterwards in aloud and sonorous
voice. The Doctor moved her arms with diEc'ulty,
and they always preserved the position in which he
Placed them, however inoommodions. When the Doe-
tor had witnessedpthis strange phenomenon for half an
hour, he endeavoured in vain to rouse her, by repeat-
TRANSFEIQENCE or snusurxon. S21
edly calling to her in a louder and louder tone. Her
eyes were open, but fixed; the pupil immoveable; the
eyelids did not wink even at the approach of the finger,
and there were no symptoms of vision. When pierced
with a_ needle, no sign of pain was observed. The ob-
servations of Petetin then occurred to the Doctor; and
hgving npproximated his mouth to the epigastric re-
gion, hebegsn to speakin a
very low tone of voice, so
qs not to be heard by any of the bystanders. Imme-
diately, the patient, as if returning to her senses, an..
svgered the questions pmt to, her, nearly in the follow-
ing manner :
Quest. Are. yon, apleep? Any I was, but not now.
-Quest. Do ynn. feel. any Pain? Am. Ae usual. in
the legs and loinifr- The patientdbeinge now qllowed
w.rQense» She as=in.be<>»m¢.-Qatalentic. and, after 1 few
'!1i9l1!&-l» M834 QQ *iP8».85. b°f°l§Q» The. DWWR then
attempted fa. new her-imfbenlvsl mmmer, but could
n°t,#s=¢9mPlish._hi»>P1a=ii>°P°¢ But when he upon
¢l19.SH>xawb. lm-r<1°§i¥Q<l.¢P» mswu. Thus
1-he ,experiment suqeeqdpd zyvige, the intervels, being
ve with, eatalenw and sinzins- Tl" Dwwr
this disease to be ecstasy combined with ca-
!-alnpnm, and he desired to havean associate. and wit-
ness im mn when incrednlnus. and not readily dis-
P°=§4.¢° admit the reality uf strange phenomena, vin
Andrew Sniadecki, professor of chemistry, and, at the
5-i!D°» Q skilful ]!ly.|i4=i|n~ Nant-day, about five
812 APPENDIX, No. 11.
o'clock in the afternoon, the whole scene of the previous
day was repeated in his presence.
On the following day, she again answered when
spoken to, in a
very low tone, upon the stomach ; and she
also answered, when spoken to by M. Sniadecki in a low
tone, near the right ear; but she did not seem to hear
when any one spoke upon the pillow on which her head
rested. She answered when an iron rod, a
yard and a
halfin length, was applied to_her right ear, M. Sniadecki
speaking, in a low tone, at the other extremity of it.
M. Niszkowski repeated the same experiment, with the
same success, applying the rod to the osji-ontis.
Upon another occasion, when several physicians were
present, Dr Barankiewicz interrogated the patient, but
received no answer. Dr Frank then requested this
gentleman to give him his hand, he (Frank) keeping
his other hand constantly upon the epigastric region.
Dr Barankiewicz now asked her :
"
Who am I P" She
immediately answered: "
Dr Barankiewicz," although
she had not previously perceived him enter the room.
A cloth moistened with a solution of sugar in water
was applied to the pit of the stomach, and she was ask-
ed what it was. She answered that it was sugared
water; and being again asked how she came to know
this, she said that she felt a sensation of moist heat as-
cending from that region to the tongue, which imme-
diately became affected with a
feeling of sweetness.
The clothwas removed, and she awoke. She then
'rnsnsrnanucrz or s£NsA'r1oN. 313
asked what it was that had been placed upon the epi-
gastric region, and she answered
that it was
something
moist, but she could not tell what.
At another time, the persons present formed achain,
each holding a hand of the other, Dr Frank placingone
of his upon the epigastrium of the patient, and giving
the other to Sniadecki. She answered the questions
put to her by all, and named them in their order.
When the Doctor's hand was removed from the epi-
gastrium, she could hear nothing; but when it was re-
placed, she again heard and answered questions.
I must refer the reader to the work of Dr Frank for
many other particulars of this curious case, which is
altogether exceedingly interesting, recorded with great
minuteness of observation, and aifords a strong confir-
mation of the results of Petetin's experiments. We
Iind iniit the transference of the faculties of hearing
and sight to the epigastric region, and other' parts of
the body; of that of taste to the epigastrium ;' and the
experiment of the chain succeeded in this instance, as
in those mentioned by Petetin; The respectability off
the learned Doctor, and of the other medical gentlemen
who witnessed the phenomena, precludes all uspicion
of imposition or
deception. I may add, that, in former
times, this case would probably have been considered as
one of demoniacal possession. The patient was cured!
'
Jos. Frank, Prax. Med. Univ. Precepts, Part ii. vol. i. pp. 495, kc.
vol.. n. n d
314 Arrnuntx, No. 11.
Some years ago, a
very curious memoir upon this
subject was read in the Philomathic Society, at Paris,
by M. Francmur, the distinguished mathematician, who
had recently returned from the waters of Aix, where
he had been in the habit of associating with several re-
spectable physicians, and particularly with M. Despine,
physician to the establishment. These gentle-
men mentioned to him that they had witnessed, during
several months, the extraordinary phenomenon of the
tansfereuce of the senses, and M. Francmur thought
himself bound to communicate their observations to the
Society.
The following is the substance of the observations of
M. Despinez- ~
In the first case, the patient, who was the subject of
it, had the faculties of sight, hearing, and smelling
transferred to the lingers and toes.
`
The second case is a
great deal more curious. It is
that of the daughter of M. R., a man of education, and
much respected by all the inhabitants of the townnf
Grenoble, where the lived retired. He was much af-
fected by his daughtefs indisposition, which he made
every efort to conceal, and dedined the visits of the
inquisitive.
Among the diferent phenomena successively maui-
fested by Mademoiselle A., and which Dr Dmpinehas
described at considerable length, he dwells
upon that of somnambulism. M. Bertrand, his work
TRANSFERENCE OF SENBATION. 315
already referred to, has transcribed the following pas~
sage, relative the transference of the seat of the
senses of sight, of hearing, and of smelling.
"
Not only did our patient hear with the palm of the
hand, but we saw her read without the assistance of
the eyes, by means of the extremities of the fingers
alone, which she moved with rapidity above the page
she wished to read, and without touching it, as if to
multiply the sentient surfaces ;-she read,- I say, a
whole page of Madame MODwu0U'§ romance, entitled
La Chateaua en Seine. In the -page there were three
proper names, of which she probably had never heard..
and which she pronounced as
correctly as a reader in
the Academy. At other times, we saw her select from
amongst a
packet of upwards ofthirty letters, .one which
had been previously pointed out to her ;-read upon
the dial-plate ,and through Me glass the hour indicated
by a watch ;-f-open the watch, wind it up, and set it;
-write several letters (three of _them are in my pos-
session) ;¢-correct, upon _a reperusal, the errors which
had _escaped her, always with the paints of her lingers;
fre-copypne of her letters, word for word, reading
with her lei; elbow, while she wrote with her right
hand. We heard her describe the smell (of which the
nostrils simulated the impression) and the species of
such and such a Bower, the leaves of which were placed
in the palm of her hand; During all the experiments,
ascreen of thick pasteboard intercepted, in the mac:-
316 Arraunix, No. n.
est manner, every visual ray which might otherwise
have reached her eyes.
"
The same phenomena were manifested at the soles
of the feet, the epigastrium, and, indeed, all the diffe-
rent parts of the surface of the body." -
Doctor Delpit, in a curious memoir on two nervous
affections, inserted in the Biblzbtheque Mcdicak, has re-
corded a case very similar to that observed by Dr De-
spine.
"
One of the patients," says this author, "read very
di tinctly when her eyes were entirely closed to the
light, by conducting her lingers over the letters. I
made her read in this way, whether by day-light, or
in the most prefound darkness, printed characters, by
opening the first book which camel to my hand; and
sometimes written characters, by presenting to her notes
which I had prepared on purpose before I went to her.
Was it the sense of touch which supplied that of sight P
I know not; but I ailirm that she read quite Buently
by conducting her fingers along the letters. One day
she even
pretended that, with a little more exertion
(I quote her own expressions), she should be able to
read with her toes."1'
i
'
Bertrand, p. 458, et seq.
-|- Bertrand, pp. 462, 463.-Upon the same authority, I may nn.-
tion that, in the short reflections made by Dr Delpit upon these experi-
ments, a reference is made to several known authora, particularly
to Duma. "
Five years ago," says this celebrated author, "
a
young
'rnsnsrnunucn or sENsA'r1oN. 317
The case of Miss M'Avoy of Liverpool, which oc-
curred a good many_ years ago, and occasioned a
great
deal of acrimonious discussion, presented phenomena
perfectly analogous to the two preceding.
This young lady was about fifteen years of age, and
became blind in the month of June 1816. In the mid-
"lady of the department of Ardeche, who had come to Montpellier in
order to consult the physicians about an
hysterical affection accompa-
nied with catalepsy, presented an instance of a
strange phenomenon.
She experienced, during the whole continuance of her attaclrs, such a
concentration of the sensibility in the precordial region, that the organs
of the senses
appeared to be entirely fixed there ; she referred to the
stomach all her sensations of sight, hearing, and smelling, which were
not, at these times, produced in the usual organs. This rare
pheno-
menon, observed in a
person so interesting, became an
object of atten~
tion to medical men, and of curiosity to the public."
(Yan Ghert, in his account of the magnetic treatment of the De-
moiselle B., mentions a similar circumstance. In that case he observed
the transference of the faculties to the pit of the stomach ; and the pa-
tient gave the following description of her feelings :_" When you ix
your thoughts intensely upon me, I can see
every thing; at these
times, the eyes and the brain leave my head, and take up their resi-
dence beside the stomach. Wonderful as this may appear, I assure
you that it is true. _When I am shrtled, or you are disturbed, then
the eyes and the brain retum to my head."-Archiv.f¢'2r den thierisch.
Magnet. vol. ii. No. 1, p. 70.)
"
I do not diasemble," continues M. Delpit,
"
that facts of this de-
scription, opposed to all the known laws of nature, should not easily
and without restriction obtain the assent of men of sober and experi-
enced minda. But if we multiply our observations of this kind,-if we
scrupulously verify the most minute circumstance of each case, we shall
be forced to reeognise the possibility of a
phenomenon, which, perhaps,
only appears so marvellous in consequence of our want of s sumcisnt
number of analogous facts to enable us to institute a
comparison."._.
See Baarsnrn, pp. 436, Ire.
3l8 arrsunxx, No. n.
dle of the month of October of that year, she acciden-
tally discovered, for the first time, that she was able
to read when she felt the letters of a book with her
iingers. The following experiments were made upon
her :-
Her eyes were handaged in such a manner as to
exclude every ray of light. Six wafers of diferent co-
lours, placed between two plates of glass, were present-
ed to her, and she named exactly the colour of
When she touched the surface of the glass above the
red wafer, she was asked whether that which was be-
neath might not be a
piece of red cloth or paper? She
answered, "
No, I think it is a wafer." She described
the colour and figure of a
triangular or semi-circular
piece of wafer, placed, in a similar manner, between
two plates of glass. She named the seven prismatic
colours, which were painted upon a
piece of paper, and
said that the perception of these prismatic colours af-
forded her the greatest pleasure she had experienced
since her blindness. The violet ray was the least
agreeable to her.
She read several lines of small print by touching the
letters ; and she afterwards read, by means of a convex
glass, at a distance of nine inches from the book. When
she read, she touched the surface of the glass gently
with the points of her lingers. A penlmife was laid
upon the line she was
reading, and she immediately
perceived and named it. She could distinguish cut-
TRANSFERENCE OF BENSATI ON. 819
glass from rock-crystal, and pronounced several pieces
of ornament, which had previously been considered as
crystal, to be glass, which was afterwards confirmed.
Several other experiments were made, in this case,
which it appears unnecessary to particularise. At cer-
tain times, she possessed this power of distinguishing
colours and objects more perfectly than at others.
Sometimes it disappeared entirely, and, indeed, sudden-
ly; and, upon these occasions, every thing appeared
to her to be black. This sudden change she compired
to that which she recollected to have experienced when
a candle was
extinguished; and she was left in dark-
ness. <
It does not appear that Miss M'Avoy could have
had any conceivable motive for deception, even admit-
ting that, with all the precautions that were taken du-
ring the experiments, any such deception had been .pos-
sible. Her health was very infirm, and her disposition
sensitive. The slightest noise was
exceedingly disagree-
able to her; and some of those persons whomcurio-
sity brought to see her, did not always treat her with
that delicacy which was due to her sex and circum-
stances.
The case of Miss M'Avoy excited a
good deal of sen-
sation among the physiologists; and a keen controversy
arose between the believers and the sceptics. The phe-
nomenon was declared by the latter to be contrary to
all the known laws of nature and philosophy,-fact,
820 arrsumx, No. u.
therefore, must bend to theory and preconceived opi-
nion,-the thing was
impossible and could not be true,
-the whole business, in short, was
pronouncedgto be
mere deception, and the young lady herself an
'
errant
impostor. This reasoning, however, did not shake the
conviction of many of those individuals who had wit-
nessed tlie experiments,-investigated the whole cir-
cumstances,-and satisfied themselves of the reality of
the facts!
Another case of catalepsy occurred very recently,
and appears to have presented phenomena in all re-
spects similar to those already described. I regret ex-
ceedingly to find myself under the necessity of giving
the particulars of this very curious case at third hand,
in consequence of having no access to the original
sources. The following account, therefore, is extract-
ed from the London Medical and Surgical Journal fin'
December 1832, which professes to have borrowed it
from the French Gazetle llledicale of the previous
month.
"
In a late number of the Bulletin ofMedical Sciences
of Bologna, there are details of the case of a. young
man treated in the Hoqnlal della Vita, in the month of
September last, to which, indeed, no credence could
he given, were they not furnished by persons of cha-
'
See the pamphlets published upon this occasion by Dr Renwick,
Mr Egerton Smith, and others. Also, Thomson's Annals of Philo-
sophy, and the Philosophical Magazine for February 1818.
'rasuslfsasnceor snusnxou. 821
racter, and likely to have taken due precautions against
probable imposition. This man, who was of short sta-
ture, but well organized, and born of healthy parents,
laboured under mental anxiety for some time previous
to the 25th of July last, when, in afording aid to a
per-
son attacked with convulsions, his arm was
grasped by
the individual, and firmly held for a
long time. From
the impression produced by this last event, his health
began to be affected, and he suffered particularly in the
lower extremities. ,
"
On the 15th of August, the following symptoms
took place, which recurred, for the most part, in a ter-
tian type, and regularly at a
particular hour. After a
most violent agitation of all the muscles, those of the
face excepted, intense coldness of the extremities, hure
ried respiration, and other avant-couriers, the man be-
came insensible to surrounding objects ; ceased to reply
to questions, though put to him in a loud voice ; sus-
pension of vision, taste, and sense of smell ; the skin
inseusihle to pain when pinched, except at the epigas-
trium and palms ofthe hands, where feeling seemed to
remain in all its energy. These symptoms usually last~
ed for about an hour and twenty minutes, and the pa-
tient had no recollection afterwards of any thing that
occurred during the fit.
"
The most surprising part of the history, however,
is. that he answered questions, when put to him in a low
voice, provided the mouth of the speaker was placed
822 srnunix, No. n.
near the epigastrium; and during this trial, great care
seems to have been taken, by plugging, bandaging, Sze.
to block up thepassages of the ears. He seems to have
been capable of indicating, during the access, the na-
ture of certain bodies when applied to the epigastrium,
or palms of the hands. It is stated, that, when desired
(the voice of the speaker being directed to the part in-
dicated), he would open his hands, which were irmly
clenched during the lit. By the latest accounts, the
disease seemed to have been molliiied," &c. by medical
treatment.
Even in the meagre details which are given of this
case in the account referred to, we cannot fail to recog-
nise a
striking resemblance between the facts observed,
and those which occurred in the experiments of Pete-
tin, as well as in all the other cases which have been
particularly noticed. In all of them, the functions of
the usual organs of sense
appear to have been suspend-
ed, and transferred to the epigastrium and the extremi-
ties. There are, no doubt, pretty strong shades of
difference between some of these cases; but in all, I
think, the facts present analogous features, mic-ient to
entitle the phenomena to be arranged in the same class.
Here, then, perhaps I may be permitted to and
inquire, whether, in the curious observation of Van
Helmont,-in the phenomena exhibited by some of the
Quakers of the Cevennes, the nuns of Louduu, and the
convulsionaries of Saint Medard,-in the numerous,
'rasnsrnnnucz or snusxrxou. 823
minute, and careful experiments made by Dr Petetin,
-in the other eight cases to which I have referred
more or less at large ;-whether, I say, in the instances
and observations I have already brought forward, the
fact in question has not been fully and satisfactorily es-
tablished. The phenomena themselves were unambi-
guous and obtrusive. The cases in which they were
manifested, it may be' remarked, occurred at diferent
periods, and in diferent countries,-in I'h'ance, Ger-
many, England, and Italy; and they were all witness#
ed and recorded by the most competent observers,-
medical men of eminence in their profession,-without
any possible concert amongst each other; many of them,
indeed, apparently ignorant of the observations of their
predecessors, and stumbling upon the astonishing dis-
covery, as it were, by mere accident.
i
'
But I have hitherto adduced scarcely one-half of the
evidence upon record, with which I am acquainted, in
support of the existence of this extraordinary pheno-
menon; and, in the farther prosecution of this interesti
ing investigation, I shall not hesitate to avail myself of
the light thrown upon it by the professors of Animal
Magnetism; because, whatever diiferences of opinion
may prevail in the views entertained upon this subject.
considered as matter of theory, or whatever doubts
may be expressed with regard to the propriety or the
eicacy of the magnetic treatment, as a sanative pro-
cess, every intelligent and competent judge now admits
824 srrsuoxx, No. ll.
that the most important facts, which are
alleged to oc-
cur in the course of that practice, have been abundant-
ly confirmed by evidence of the most irresistible eo-
gency.
M. Tardy de Montravelf found that, during the msg-
netic somnambulism, in some cases, the regionof the
stomach was the seat of the sensitive faculties and par-
ticularly of the sight. A somnambulist recognised the
hour upon a watch, which was pressed close to the pit
of his stomach. This species of perception was at first
imperfect, but gradually became more and more dis-
tinct. .
Dr Gmelin-|~ made some interesting experiments, in
order to verify this fact. He drew a card out of a
mixed pack, and pressed the coloured side of it close
upon the pit of the stomach of a somnambulist, so that
no person could distinguish it. He then asked the som-
nambnlist what card it was, and she answered thatit
was a pictured one. Some time after, she could dis-
tinguish whether it was a king, a queen, or a knave;
she afterwards named the colour, and, at length, men-
tioned whether it was diamonds, clubs, &c. Upon look-
ing at the card, she was
always found to be in the right ;
and the result was
always the same, when, to satisfy
the sceptical, the eyes of the somnambulist were ban-
daged. M. Tardy also mentions the case of a somnam-
'
Traitement Magnet. de la Dem. M, vol. i.
'
1* Ma¢enll1.f¢°is' die Antlcropol., vol. ii.
'rmmsri-:annex or SENSATION. 325
bulist, who, with her eyes completely bandaged, so as
to exclude the light, could read writings which were
strange and unknown to her, provided they were placed
close to the pit of her stomach! When the somnam-
hulists have cultivated this faculty by frequent exercise,
it is no longer necessary to bring the object to be re-
cognised into immediate contact with the patient; it is
then quite sullicient if it is held, at some distance, op-
posite to the pit of the stomach.-f When this faculty
becomes still more developed, somnambulists, it is said,
can even distinguish objects through other intervening
bodies, provided these he not electrical, such as
sealing-
wax, silk, &c.
The following case is very remarkable in many re-
spects ; and the rank and character of the party, upon
whose authority it rests, render it impossible for us to
entertain the slightest doubt with regard to the truth
of the facts related; while the situation and known pro-
bity of the patient preclude all suspicion of deception.
It occurs in a letter addressed by his Excellency the
Russian Count Panin, formerly Imperial Ambassador
at the Court of Prussia, to a
society in Paris.1 I_pro-
pose to extract from this letter such passages only as
bear upon the point of the transference of the faculties.
James Macgill, a Scotsman, 46 years of age, and of
a
phlegmatic temperament, had been more than twelve
'
Tardy, at supra. p
f Gmelin, ut supra.
I See the Bibliotlo. du Magnd. Animal, vol. p. 128.
826 arrznmx, No. n.
years in the Count's service, in the capacity of garde-
ner, and was muah esteemed by his master. He was
always remarkable for his love of truth, and his ab-
horreuce of falsehood.
While in the service of the Count, Macgill had al-
ways enjoyed good health; but in the month of May
1817, having gone upon a journey on some business of
his masters, the horses ran down a
declivity, and over-
turned the chariot, one of the wheels of which
over his body. .The fright and the shock occasioned
by the fall, together with some considerable contusions,
rendered bleeding advisable; but, unfortunately, no-
body thought of it, and Macgill had recourse only to
palliatives. No advice was to be had, and two months
elapsed before the patient had an
opportunity of con-
sulting an English physician, who resided in the neigh-
bouring town. Before the arrival of the Count, Mac-
gill had taken a great deal of medicine without efect;
and upon being questioned, the physician candidly con-
fessed that he could not tell the nature of the gardenei-'s
complaint. The latter derived no benefit from the
frictions, pills, and other remedies which were admi-
nistered to him. He was
extremely emaciated, and
could not eat or drink without erperiencing violent
pains in the intestines. In these circumstances,
Count resolved to attempt a cure
by means of
Magndisna From this resolution he was not deterred
by the presence of one of the Emperor's physicians, a
'rnansrsnnuca or sxausxrxon. 827
man of high reputation, the English Dr Crichton, who
was then upon a visit to a relation of the Count?s in the
neighbourhood.
'
_
After a consultation with the two able physicians re-
ferred tc, upon the nature of this disease, which ap-
peared to be both very serious and di$cnlt to define,
they ,declared that the man's recovery was very doubt-
ful. The Count afterwards ascertained that these two
medical gentlemen did not conceal that they considered
the case to be a
desperate one.
'Upon the Count's recommendation, the patient now
renounwd all medical prescriptions; and the following
are some of the results of the treatment to which he
was subjected, and which terminated successfully in a
complete cure.
At the third sitting (28th September 1817), between
one and two o'clock 'in the afternoon, Maegill entered
into the state of somnambnlism, after having been ma-
nipulated about fifteen minutes ; ,and soon after, he was
able to answer
questions. His first answers, however,
were 'rather incoherent. A gold ring having been
placed upon the pit of his stomach, he was asked what
it was. He answered that it was a
ring; but he could
not discover the colour of it, and took itfOr lead. Du-»
ring this time, the patients eyes were completely
chndy
.
_ _
At the fourth sitting, an Eight gf Hearts was applied
to the pit of the patientip stomach. I-le did not recognise
4
328 Arrzunix, No. 11.
`
it, but took it for abound book. He saw a watch when
placed in the same situation. He perceived the silver
dial-plate and the hands, but could not tell the hour.
Some moments aiierwards, having been more
efectually
magnetised, he recognised a card applied to his stomach,
called it first the Queen of Diamonds, but almost imf
mediately correcting himself; he said that it was the
King, which was the fact.
At the fifth sitting, several cards were
successively
applied to the pit of his stomach, and he recognised
them all with more facility, and less hesitation, than the
day before. At first, he mentioned the colour of the
cards and of the marks impressed upon them, then their
number, &c.
'
At the sixth sitting, apacket of calomel powderwas
applied to the pit of his stomach, and he was asked
what he saw. He answered, without hesitation, that
it was calomel, such as is prepared by the apothecaries;
that it was divided into five small packets, and he de-
scribed precisely the colour of the powder.
At the seventh sitting, a mixed powder, which he
was to take as a medicine, was
placed upon the pit of
his stomach, and he exactly described the colour of the
powder, although inclosed in paper.
Such are a few of thc phenomena described by Count
Panin, in his very interesting letter. The characters
of the Count and of his patient, together with their
relative situation, preclude all suspicion of deception in
'raausrzazucn or ssusarxou. 829
this case; the whole narrative contains only a plain
statement of facts, without any attempt at embellish-
ment; and these facts are analogous 'to a number of
others, reported by diferent observers, all belonging
to the same class.
In proceeding to the next ease, I would beg leave to
recal to the recollection of the reader, the particulars
related, not only by Petetin, but by the
Doctors Des-
pine and Delpit, and others, who describe thefaculties
as having been apparently transferred, not ,merely to
the epigadrium, but also to the extremities, as well as to
other prominent parts of the body.
The celebrated Professor Kieser of Jena, an eminent
snatomist and physiologist, and, otherwise, a man' of
extensive and varied acquirements, given very
ample and minute details of a most remarkable case of
magnetic somnambulism, which owurred in the course
of his own practice. This account is much too long to
be given entire, besides that a great part of it is irrele-
vant to our present purpose. I shall, therefore, extract
from it only such of the particulars as have a direct re-
ference to the subject I am now
investigating!
Anthony Arst, the son of ashoemaker in Jena., aged
eleven years and a half, was
constitutionally subject to
frequent and severe attach of epilepsy. The professor,
inding that the disease would not yield to the ordinary
°
Arcl|is.f`ir den thicriochsa Jlagndisstss, vol. No. 2.
vol.. ll. E e
880 APPENDIX, no. II; .-
remedies, determined to subject the patient to themes.
netic treatment. He was accordingly magnetised, md,
after a considerable period, placed in a state of sommm-»
bulism. This appeared, at first, in the form of a simple
sleep, accompanied with various other phenomena,-
such as convulsions, catalepsy, tetanus, nhus nfdonicus,
St Vitus's dance,-until, at length, the somnambuliam
became perfect. Wlnile in this state, the visual power
of the eye appeared to be completely annihilated, and
the faculty of vision transferred to the whole surhce of
the patient's body, but especially to the more
pmmi-»
nent parts. He saw distinctly with the points of his
lingers, with the toes, the elbows, the shoulders, the
abdominal region, tlie point of his nose, the chin, and
the surface of the face. It was remarked, however,
that this somnamhulist requiredlight in order to enable
him to exercise this transferred faculty of vision, and
that he could not see in the dark. But it was
perfectly
well ascertained that he did not see in the usual manner,
as his eyes were closely bandaged.
These facts must, unquestionably, excite great sur-
prise in the minds of all those who come, for the first
time, to the investigation of this curious subject. The
scientific reputation, however, and the honourable cha-
racter of therlearned professor, afford a sulicient guaf
rantee for his veracity; and we have not the slightest
reason to suspect imposition or deception in the phe-
nomena which he so carefully observed. In a demon-
'raausraasucs or s1:Nsa'r1oN. 881
stration of this nature, too, es n'est que le premier pas qui
equate ;-if we have once satisfied ourselves of the pos-
sibility of the transference of a particular faculty from
its usual and appropriate organ to one
part of the or-
ganism, we can have less diiculty in conceiving that,
in peculiar circumstances, it may be also transferred to
others. Besides, a vast variety of other instances of
'the same phenomena, which are more or less curious
and interesting, will be found in the works of Pete-
tin, Puysegur, Caullet de Veaumorel, Mouillesaux,
Gmelin, Heinecken, -Wienllolt, and a number of other
authors.
I should be afraid of exceeding all reasonable bounds,
were I to proceed to enumerate all those particular in-
stances in which this phenomenon of the transference
of the faculties has been observed. Hitherto, I have
been careful to bring forward only such cases as have
been recorded by individuals of competent attainments,
and whose characters are, otherwise, above all suspicion.
I sm perfectly aware that, in demonstrating the exist-
ence of a fact so
extraordinary and incredible as this,
the maxim of the lawyers peculiarly applies, Testimonia
ponderanda non numeranda ;-the character of the wit-
nesses is a matter of much more
importance than their
number; and, therefore, I have been particularly care-
ful in the selection of my authorities. In the only two
other cases which I propose to adduce, I shall rigidly
adhere to the same rule. These two instances are not
882 arrsunxx, No. u.
only exceedingly remarkable in themselves; but they
are supported by such evidence as even the most seep-
tical, lishouia think, would team w 1-eject. 'nay
are extracted from the late very able and impartial
Report,-already submitted to the reader,-of nine
French physicians of eminence, members of the Royal
Academy of Medicine, who were appointed a commit-
tee to investigate anew the reality of the phenomena of
4nimaI Magnetism. The extreme caution with wlieh
these intelligent gentlemen conducted their experiment,
and observed the results, would, of itself, afford an
ample security against any species of deception or im-
posture. I must quote the passages having reference
to the subject in question at full length; lest, amidst
the various interesting matter contained in the Report,
they should not have been pernsed with that attention
which their importance deserves.
M. Petit was
magnetised, in presence of the com-
mittee, upon the 15th of March 1826, at half-past eight
o'clock in the evening, and was set asleep in the space
of about one minute. The committee were determined
to assure themselves that the eyelids were exactly
closed. "
For this purpose," in the words of the Re-
port,
"
a candle was almost constantly held, during the
experiments, before the eyes of M. Petit, at a distance
of one or two inches; and several persons had their
eyes continually fixed upon his. None of ns could per-
ceive the slightest separation of the eyelids. M. Ribes,
'raslvsrsnsnca or snnsxrxon. 383
indeed, remarked that their edges were superimposed
so that the eye-lashes crossed each other. _
"
We also examined the'state of the eyes, which were
forcibly opened without awakening the somnambulist ;
and we remarked that the pupil was turned downwards,
and directed towards the great angle of the eye.
"
After these preliminary observations, we proceeded
to verify the phenomena of vision with the eyes closed.
"
M. Ribes, member of the Academy, presented a
catalogue which he took from his pocket. The som-
nambulist, after some efforts which seemed to fatigue
him, read very distinctly the words: Lavater. Il est
bien daficile de connaitre ks hommes. The last words
were printed in very small characters. A passport
was placed under his eyes ; he recognised it, and called
it a
passe-Iaomme. ,Some moments afterwards, a
port
d'armes was substituted, which we all know to be in
almost all respects similar to a
passport, and the blank
side of it was presented to him. M. Petit, at first,
could _only recognise that it was of a particular figure,
and very like the former. A few moments afterwards,
he told us what it was, and read distinctly the words :
Dspar le roi, and on the left, port d'armes. Again, he
was shewn an
_open letter; he declared that he could
not read it, as he did not understand English. In fact,
it was an English letter.
"
M. Bourdois took from his pocket a. snuf-box, up-
on which there was a cameo set in gold. At first the
884 APPENDIX, No. u.
somnambulist could not see it distinctly; he laid that
the gold setting dazzled him. When the setting was
covered with the fingers, he said that he saw the em-
blem of Ihdelity. when puma to wll what this em-
blem was, he added :
'
I see a dog-he is as if on his
hind legs before an altar.' This, in fact, wal what was
represented.
"
A closed letter was
presented to him: He could
not discover any of its contents. He only followed the
direction of the lines with his linger : But he easily
read the address, although it contained a
pretty diili~
cult name: To M. de Rockenstroh.
"
All these experiments were extremely fatiguing to
M. Petit. He was allowed to repose for an instant:
Then, as he was very fond of play, a game at cards
was proposed for his relaxation. As much as the ex-
periments of pure curiosity seemed to annoy him, with
so much the more ease and dexterity did he perform
whatever gave him pleasure, and this he entered into
of his own accord. -
"
One of the gentlemen present, M. Raynal, former-
ly Inspector of the University, played a
game at piquet
with M. Petit, and lost it. The latter handled his cards
with the greatest dexterity, and without making any
mistake. We attempted several times in vain to set
him at fault, by taking away or
changing some of his
cards. He counted with sm-prising facility the points
marked upon his adversary's marking card.
'raansl-'ensues or snusarios. 885
"
During all this time, we never ceased to examine
the eyes, and to hold a candle near them; and we al#
ways found them exactly closed. We remarked, how-
ever, that the ball of the eye seemed to move under
the eyelids, and to follow the different motions of the
hands. Finally, M. Bourdois declared that, accord-
ing to all human probability, and as far as it was
pos-
sible to judge by the senses, the eyelids were
exactly
closed."
'
After some other experiments, M. Dupotet played
a game at ecarté with M. Petit, while still in a state of
somnambulism, in order to divert him. The latter
playedfwith the same facility and dexterity as before,
and with similar success. _
The other case
reported by_ the Committee of the
Royal Academy of Sciences, is that of Paul Villagrand,
student of law, who had an attack of apoplexy, which
was followed by paralysis of the whole left side. ln
this case, the magnetic treatment was
pursued with
remarkable success; The following phenomena were
observed with regard to his exercise of the faculty of
vision. .
"
Upon the 12th of January, your committee met
again at the house of M. Foissac, where there were
present M. E. Lazcase, deputy, M. De --_, a£ds-de-
camp to the king, and M. Segalas, member of the Aca-
demy. M. Foissac told us, that he was going to set
Paul asleep, that in this state of somnambulism a iuger
386 Arrsnmx, uo.~ xx.
should he applied to each of his closed eyes, and that,
in spite of this complete occlusion, of the eyelids, he
should distinguish the colour of cards, that he should
read the title of a work, and even some words or lines
pointed out at random in the body of the work. At
the end of two minutes of magnetic manipulations, Paul
fell asleep. The eyelids being kept closed, constantly
and alternately by MM. Fouquier, Itard, Marc, and the
reporter, there was
presented to him a
pack of new
cards, from which the paper covering bearing the go-
vernment stamp was tom of. The cards were shu$ed,
and Paul easily and successively recognised the King
of Spades, the Ace of Clubs, the Queen of Spades, the
Nine of Clubs, the Seven of Diamonds, and-Queen' of
Diamonds, and the Eight of Diamonds.
"
While his eyelids were
kept closed by M. Segalas,
there was
presented to him a volume which 'the report-
er had brought along with him. He read upon the
title-page: Histoire de France. He could not read the
two intermediate lines, and upon the fifth he read only
the name, Anquetil, which is preceded by the preposi-
tion par. The book was opened at the 89th page, and
he read in the first line-lc nombre de ses-he passed
over the word troupes, and continued: Au moment ou
on lecroyait occupé desplaisifs du camaval. He also
read the running title Louis, but could not read the
Roman cypher which follows it. A piece of paper was
presented to him, upon which were written the words,
'rxumsrnnnucn or sl-:NsA'r1oN. 387
Agglutination and Magnetirme Animal. He spelt the
first, and pronounced the two others. Finally, the
procés-verbal of this sitting was presented to him, and
he read very distinctly the date and some words which
were more
legibly written than the others. In all these
experiments the fingers were
applied to the whole of
the commissure of
n
both eyes, by pressing down the
upper iipon the under eyelid, and we remarked that the
ball of the eye was in a constant rotatory motion, and
seemed directed towards the object presented to his
vision.
"
Upon the 2d of February, Paul was placed in a
state of somnambulism in the house of Messrs Scribe
and Bremard, merchants, Rue St Honoré. The re-
porter of the committee was the only member present
at this experiment. The eyelids were closed as before,
and Paul read, in the work entitled The Thousand and
One Nights, the title-page, the word Preface and the
first line of the preface, withlthe exception of the word
peu. There was'also presented to him a volume en-
titled, Lettres de deux amabs,par Madame Campzm. He
distinguished on a
print the iigure of Napoleon; he
pointed out the boots, and said that he also saw two
female figures. He then read currently the four first
lines of the third page, with the exception of the word
roviver. Finally, he recognised, without touching them,
four cards, which were successively presented to him
vor.. n. F f
838
'
APPENDIX, No. ii.
~
f'
two and=two,-these were the King of Spades and the
Eight of Hearts, -the King and Queen of Clubs.
"
At another sitting, which took place upon the Al 3th
of March following, Paul attempted in vain to
distinguish
different cards which were applied to the pit of the
wma; but he ma, with his eyes mu closed, in a
book opened at random, and, at this time, it was M.
Jules Cloquet who kept his eyes shut. The reporter
also wrote upon a slip of paper these words,
Robespnbrre, which he read equally well."
The two cases last referred to, are
assuredly very
remarkable, and they appear tolhave been observed
with uncommon care and attention, and every possible
precaution. Nothing, indeed, is there said' of that trans-
ference of the faculties which, as we have seen, is re-
ported to have been manifested in various other in-
stances: and, with the exception of one unsuccessful
attempt in the last case, no experiments seem to have
been made with the view of ascertaining the existence
of that phenomenon. But the circumstance of-
its not
having occurred or been observed in either of these
two cases, aH`ords no
good ground' for suspecting its
reality in others. The phenomena occasionally de-
veloped in catalepsy and somnambulism, although,'upon
the whole, of a
pretty uniform character, 'and capable
of being arranged under one class, are exceedingly va-
riable in different individuals; depending, probably, in
a
great degree, upon the perfection or imperfection of
'rnsusrsnsncs or sr~:NsA'r1oN. S89
the crisis, as well as
upon the particular idiosyncrasy
of the patient. M. Rostan, in his article Magnetisme
Animal, inserted in the new de Medecine,
mentions that he observed a somnambulist, who told
him, exactly and repeatedly, the hour indicated by a
watch placed behind his head. The celebrated physio-
logist Dr Georget also allirmed, that he had observed
a somnambulist who presented the most
astonishing
phenomena of prevision and clairvoyance ; insolnncb,
he added, that in no work upon Magnetism, not even
that of Petetin, had he ever met with any thing-more
extraordinary, nor even in all the other instances which
he himself had witnessed. It is quite clear, indeed,
from the description given of the state of the eyes of
the patients, in the' two cases
reported by the French
Academicians, that they could not
possibly have exer-
cised the faculty of vision in the usual manner; and
this fact being once admitted, we can feel less didiculty
in assenting to the reality of the phenomena which have
been observed to occur in other instances!
'
The following curious particulars appeared in the Chro-
nicle of the 28th March last, and in other newspapers.
"
Bow Swann, Second sight.-Thomas M'Kean, the father of the
boy who has made so much impression by his gift of the second sight,
was
yesterday charged at this odiee, kc.
"
Mr Burnaby, the clerk, having mentioned that the youth gifted
with second sight was in the oiiiee, Mr Halls (the magistrate) express-
ed a wish to witness a little of his mysterious powers. His father then
blindfolded him; and Mr Burnaby, taking out his watch, the father
asked him of.what metal it was
composed. He promptly answered,
34-0 APPENDIX, No. II.
From the many well-authenticated eases I have been
enabled to adduce upon this interesting point (and
many more might have been brought forward, had it
been thought necessary)-if there be any such thing
as a rational belief in human testimony of the most
cogent nature and unimpeachable character-any faith
to be reposed in the most complete demonstrative evi-
dence-I conceive myself fully entitled to conclude,
from this induction of facts, that individuals have been
known to exercise the faculty of vision without the or-
dinary use of the natural and appropriate organ of sight,
and that, in many cases of catalepsy and somnambulism,
this faculty, along with others, has been observed to be
transferred to the epigastrium, and to other parts of the
organism. Indeed, in confirmation of this fact, I might
'
gold," which was the fact. Mr B. then took out his purse, when the
father asked the boy (who was still blindfolded) of what material it was
made ? He answered, correctly,
'
of silk ;' and in answer to further
questions, said there was
gold at one end, and silver at the other; and
even told the dates of the years when the shillings and sixpences had
been coined."
"
The father stated that he had ive children all in the same
extraordinary way."
'
`
I know nothing more of the history of this boy or of his family; nor
am I aware whether any investigation into his case has been made by
professional men--as I would strongly recommend. That the pheno-
mena exhibited are of possible occurrence, I think I have suicieutly
proved. At the same time, it is evident, that,in cases of this descrip-
tion, there is much room for deception.-First Eitioa.
I have heard nothing further of this case, and consequently, am not
aware whether my recommendation has been attended to.-Second
Edition.
TBANSFERENCE OF SENSATION. 341
refer to almost every case of the natural and of the
magnetic somnambulism.
This phenomenon, indeed, is probably by no means
altogether of modern diswvery. It seems to have oc-
curred in ancient times, and in all ages; of which fact,
did it not lead tona tedious, and not very useful inquiry,
pretty strong evidence might easily be adduced. Pre-
viously, however, to the more general diiliision of know-
ledge, and to the recognition of that truly philosophi-
cal principle suggested by Lord Bacon, of carefully in-
terrogating Nature, and diligently treasuring up her
answers, the subject appears to have been considered
much too mysterious to be approached by the profane,
and, therefore, was not likely to be subjected to a sa-
tisfactory scientific investigation. Nay, even within
these last Efty years, when the extraordinary fact was
again accidentally brought to light, carefully examined,
honestly submitted to the consideration of the learned,
and conirmed by numerous experiments in a
variety of
instances, a great deal of clamour was excited by the
systematic physiologists, who set about demonstrating,
by long theoretical reasonings, that the thing was ab-
solutely impossible-contrary to all the known laws
of nature, and inconsistent with all the acknowledged
principles of science. Their adversaries answered by
merely opposing the facts to the reasonings, and by
maintaining that the laws of nature can
only be legiti-
mately deduced from an attentive observation of the
342 APPENDIX, No. 11.
phenomena of nature. They might have added, in the
words-of Fernelius :
arroganlab est, argumen-
tatianis neoessilatem sensuum audorilati anleponere ; and
here was a
simple question of fact, which, laying all
the other evidence aside, may be considered as
having
been completely set at rest by the decisive experiments
made upon the cataleptic patients of Dr Petetin at
Lyons. s
In ascertaining the actual existence ofa natural phe-
nomenon, it is by no means necessary that'we should
be able to point out its cause. There are
manyfacts
in nature, of which, in the present state of our _know-
ledge, we are unable to assign the causes. In the
words of _Vigneul de Marville, "
we are not
with the whole of man's constitution. _His body is a
delicate pneumatic, hydraulic and static machine, which
possesses a million of secret springs, producing a mil-
lion of efects which we do not _know, and upon which
we never reiiect. When any strange phenomenon does
force itself upon our notice, in consequence of some
organic change; not knowing to what cause we should
ascribe it, we immediately exclaim, "
A miracle l"-
whereas, were we
carefully to investigate the matter,
we might probably find something of every day's occur-
renee, when the secret has once been discovered, and
that our surprise has been excitedhy nothing in the
least degree wonderful."
If these observations are
just in reference to the
TRANSFERENCE or s1aNsA1'1oN. 348
changes that occur in the corporeal organism, much
more are they applicable to all our attempts to inves-
tigate and explain the operations of the vital principle
within ns.
"
I admit," says a
most-,respectab1e_.writei'
in the Biblzbtlaeque ilu Magnetisfne Animalf "
I~admit`
that the phenomena produced by the vitalfault are
very
strange; some of them, indeed, are so
extraordinary,
that We GUI' scarcely believe our
own eyes: I admit that
they cannotbe reconciled with the physical results hi-
therto collected, and_ that they are often apparently in
manifest contradiction to the general laws of nature;
so-that the.more learned .we are, the less are we dis-
posed to believe them. In short, it is more diliicult to
observe and become acquainted with the phenomena o£
the living world, although they take place within us;
than with the phenomena of those physical worlds, of
which the Keplers and the Newtons have discoveredthe
laws: they have no resemblance to any thing we 'see
elsewhere; and this made Bnfon say that they were in--
comprehensible, because they were=incomparahle."* ,_
_I do not, therefore, conceive myself_ bound, as. I un'-
questionahly do not feel myself.competently qualiiied,
to offer any-thing in the shape of a
regular theory,:as
an
attempt to account- for the very extraordinary phe-
nomena which I have thought proper to bring under
notice. Indeed, in an investigation like the present,
'
Biblioth. du Magnet. Animal. yol. i.--Mémoire sur le
#aide vital,
par M. le Docteur Ch. Professeur. -
'
34-4 Armaumx, No. n. ~
the unprofessional inquirer, at least, might be permitted
to take shelter under the principle, Ubi eaperisntia wil-`
stagmliopdirwndebd. Atthesame time,ItrustI
shall be excused for taking the liberty of referring the
intelligent reader to the few hints I have ventured to
throw out at the conclusion of the introduction to this
work. lf not considered as
entirely unphilosophical'
and inadmissible, they may perhaps be found to lead to`
a scientific explanation of other singular facts, besides'
those which almost daily present themselves in the'
practice of Animal Magructism.
4
'
I shall conclude this paper with the following obser-
vations :-For some time past, our physiological thee-,
ries have manifested a decided tendency towards mate-
rialism. Of late, indeed, we seem to have got so much'
into the habit of speaking of the mental functions as
being performed by certain organs, that we would ap-'
pear to have entirely forgotten that every organism re-
quires to be vivilied by an active principle--that the
employment of an instrument presupposes 'the existence
of an intelligent agent. In our
speculations upon these
matters, we become so mnch interested in the play of
the puppets, that we
totally overlook the moving power;
while contemplating the conditions of intelligence, we-
become blind to the principle.
A
But sensation and thought, as has been frequently
remarked, are neither the properties, nor
any of the
necessary effects of matter; material structure alone
',,.
'rasnsrl-:nance or sansuriom. 34,5
cannot be the cause of the vital phenomena; it may
supply the organs or tools, through the medium of
which these are
ostensibly manifested, but these mani-
festations cannot take place without the operation of
an
intelligent cause. "
That there is some invisible
agent in every living organised system, seems to be
an inference to which we are led almost irresistiblyL
When we see an animal starting from its sleep, con-
trary to the known laws of gravitation, without an ex-
ternal or elastic impulse, without the appearance of
electricity, galvanism, magnetism, or chemical attrac-
tion; when we see it afterwards moving its limbs in
various directions, with different degrees of force and
velocity, sometimes suspending and sometimes renew-
ing the same motions, at the sound of a word or the
sight of a shadow, can we refrain a moment from think;
ing that the cause of these phenomena is internal, that
it is something diferent from the body, and that the
several bodily organs are nothing more than the mere
instruments which it employs in its operations ?"*
In the human economy, this invisible agent-this
intelligent principle, which operates through the me-
dium of certain corporeal organs--is called the soul.
Inthe normal state of the organis , we know that our
Faculties of sensation and perception, at least, are ex-
ercised through the instrumentality of certain material
organs, and hence physiologists have been led to con-
'
Barclay Ou Life and Organisation, p. 370.
O
846 a|»P|;Nmx, No. n. -
sider these instruments as the necessary conditions of
the _exercise of these -faculties. But are we prepared
to maintain, that, in anysoircnmstances, the soul is in-
capable of exerting its energies in a diiferentmmner?
Do we hold that it is the eye alone that sees,§ the ear
alone that hears, &c.; or shall we admit that there is an
internal sense to which the impressions of sight," hear-
ing, &c. are conveyed, ,and to which the material or-
gans arememly subservient? And if we
aredisposed
to make _this admission, can we
deny the possibility of
impressions being communicated to this internal sense,
in some extraordinary manner, without the necessary
intervention of the usual organs P This is a
question
which is capable of being solved by experience; and if
the cases
I_have adduced in this paper have been accu-
rately observed and faithfully reported, of which there
seems no reason to doubt, the question maybe considered
as having been satisfactorily decided in the adirmative.
In the words of Epicharmns, quoted in the _motto to this
paper,
"
The mind sees, and the mind hears;
else is deafand b1ind."' If the phenomena observed are
calculated to excite our wonder, and to call forth our
scepticism, if they appear to be inexplicable and irre-
concilable with any of our previous notions, let us re-
member that the cause of this may be found in the nar-
rowness and imperfection of our preconceived systems;
and this consideration should lead us to a careful re-
view of the principles of our knowledge, rather than to
TRANSFERENCE or SENSATION: 34-7
an obstinate and irrational denial of the facts presented
to us
by experience.
Nil uleo magnum, nec tam minbile quidquam,
Quad non paulntim minumt mirarier omnes.
Denine quapropter, novitate extern-itu ipu
Expuere ex mimo ntionem; sod magis acri
Judicio perpende: et, ui tibi vera videntur,
Dade mmm; aut, si falzum ent, xdcingere oontn.
i
-
LUCI-l'l'l¥S~
(349)
No. III.
on 'ras comms caves or 'run rnsuomsxm or LIGHT,
aan, Morrow, mrs, ELASTICITY, sorrononsruess,
uaeunrxsu, nLsc'rn1c1'rY, oanvarusm, ELECTRO-
uaorwrxsu, &c. name 'ras rouunntos or A New
'rnsoav or rnvslcs.
The great object of all philosophy is the intuition of unity in varie-
ty, and of variety in unity. Plato.
Audendum et Veritas investiganda; quam etiamsi non unequa-
mur, omnino tamen propius, quam nunc sumus, sd sam perveniemns.
Galen.
I1' sometimes happens that philosophers even of the
most profound and penetrating genius, when on the
very verge of the most important discoveries, are acci-
dentally diverted from the straight-forward path of le-
gitimate investigation, and unaccountably permit them-
selves to be seduced into some of the by-ways of con-
jecture and hypothesis. Of this truth we have, I think,
a
very striking example in the case of theillustrious
Sir Isaac Newton. To many persons, no doubt, it will
appear to be the very neplus ultra of arrogance and
presumption to attempt to impeach the accuracy of any
350 Arraumx, No. nl.
of the speculations or conclusions of this prince of Na-
tural Philosophers. But he who sets out
honestly in
search of truth, must not allow himself to be appalled
by the splendour of names and authorities, however
great and imposing: The paramount interests of seielee
demand that we should boldly endeavour to beat down
all those barriers by which her progress might other-
wise be impeded. Besides, it be observed' that,
upon the present occasion, no attempt, equally absurd
and impotent, is contemplated to deprive Sir Isaac of
his just, and fair, and honourable fame; the object is
not to impeach what he has done, but to point out what
he has left undone--to shew that this truly great :nan
was actually upon the very verge of one of the
brilliant and most interesting discoveries that ever re-
warded the investigations of science; but that, instead
of trusting to his own
natural sagacity, and steadily fix-
ing his eye upon the simplicity of nature, 'he suddenly
stopt short, and permitted himself to be drawn aside
into the unfruitful regions of doubt and conjecture.
The preceding observations apply'to Newton's in-
quiries into the nature of Light and Heat. Admitting,
in its fullest extent, the vast merit to which posterity
have justly found him entitled on_account of his pro-
found and accurate investigations into the properties
and the phenomena of these elements, we may, never-
theless, be permitted to
A
express some astonishment
that the same acute and penetrating genius, which dis-
A NEW 'nu-:oar or rarsics. 351
covered and demonstrated the principle of gravitation
andthe laws of material motion, should not have made
an
equally successful inquiry into their nature and
source; and that it should have been reserved for far
inferior philosophical talent, in an after age, to accom-
plish 'the development of principleswhich appear to
have been almost within his' mighty grasp, and thus to
perform a task which would have -added no small ac-
cession of splendour to that which already encircles his
illustrious name.
'
In a
supplementary letter to the llth chapter of the
2d part of Voltaire's Elements qf the Philosophy of
Newton, there occurs a passage relative to this subject
which merits some attention, as it appears to indicate
the point at which this great philosopher was induced
to stop short in his inquiries, and assigns the most pro-
bable reasons for this termination of his interesting in-
vestigations." "
You say," observes Voltaire, in 'answer
to a
correspondent,
"
you say it is to be regretted that
he (Newton) did not more
clearly explain himself con-
cerning the reason which often occasions the attractive
force to become repulsive, and concerning the force by
which the rays of light are darted forth with such a
prodigious velocity; to which -I may venture to add,
that .it -is `to' be regretted that he could not know the
cause of these phenomena! Newton, the first of men,'
was 'nevertheless but a man ; and the first springs
which nature employs are not within our reach, when
352 APPENDIX, No. lu.
they cannot be subjected to calculation. It is easy to
compute the force of the muscles, but all the mathema-
tics are insnmcient to inform ns why theyact at the
command of the will. All the knowledge we have of
the planets can never inform ns
why they turn from
west to east, rather than in the contrary direction.
Newton, though he anatomised the light, has not dis-
covered its intimate nature. He knew well that the
elementary fire is endued with properties which the
other elements have not.
"
It passes through an 'hundred and thirty millions
of leagues in a quarter of an hour. It does not appear
to tend towards a centre, like body ; but expands itself
uniformly and equally in every direction, contrary to
the other elements. Its attraction towards the body
it touches, and from whose body it rebounds, has no
common ratub with the universal gravity of matter.
"
It is not even
proved that the rays of elementary
fire do not penetrate each other. Newton, therefore,
struck with all these singularities, seems always to
doubt whether light be a body or not. For my part,
if I durst risk my doubts, I must confess to you that I
do not think it impossible that the ekmentaryjin may
bca beingapart,whic]zanimatasnal~ure,andpossessesb§e
intermediate stepbetweenbodg/andsomeoU|erbeingw¢
are unaequainted wdlz ; in the same manner as certain
organized plants serve as s
passage or
gradation be-
tween the vegetable and animal kingdoms."
A New 'rumour or rurszcs. 353
In the foregoing passage there are three things re-
markable. In the first place, the idea thrown out by
the author, or at least implied in his observations, that
no element of nature is ascertainable, unless it is capa-
ble of being subjected to mathematical calculation-an
idea which seems to have misled almost all natural phi-
losophers since the days of Newton ; secondly, the
doubts which Newton himself appears to have always
entertained respecting the peculiar nature of light; and,
thirdly, the suggestion of the author that the elemen-
tary Hre may be a substance sui generis, which animates'
nature, and possesses the intermediate step between
body and some other unknown being-a suggestion
which, it is hoped, will be confirmed and elucidated in
the sequel of this paper.
Originally, Sir Isaac appears to have been disposed
to adopt the principle of solar emanations or emissions-
as the primary cause of light; but he afterwards wa-
vered in his opinion, probably in consequence of the
diiculty or
impossibility of subjecting these emissions
to mathematical calculation, and also, perhaps, indu-
enced by a similar objection to that which subsequently
occurred to Euler, viz. that the sun must necessarily
become exhausted by this continual loss of a
portion of
its substance. Thereafter, following the example of
Huygens and some other natural philosophers, Newton,
abandoning his wonted caution, ultimately advanced a
VOL. 11. G
g
354 srrmlnlx, No. ln.
very hold physical hypothesis, from which he endea-
voured to deduce the nature of light and heat, and the
explanation of all the phenomena of combination or mo-
tion which appear to result from certain intangible and
impouderable principles. For this purpose, he assumed
the existence of a
highly elastic fluid (ethereal medium
or
ether) imperceptible to our senses, which extends
every where in space, and penetrates all bodies with
diferent degrees of density. The disturbance or agi-
tation of this ether, by any cause whatever, producing
a vibratory motion, he thought would occasion undula-
tions, which must transmit this vihratory motion through
all the rest of the medium, in the same way that sound
is transmitted through air, but much more
rapidly, by
reason of the greater elasticity of the duid. Newton,
however, held that light itself consists of a
peculiar sub-
stance diierent from this ether, and that their particles
were independent, but that they mutually acted and re-
acted upon each other; so that this hypothetical appaf
ratns of ether, vibrations, and undulations, was only
created for the purpose of facilitating the explanation
of the transmission of the substance of light, without
attempting to trace the source whence the substance it-
self is derived. This hypothesis, indeed, is entirely
gratuitous, unsatisfactory, and unnecessary; and its il-
lustrious author himself never appears to have placed
any confidence in it.
Since the days of Newton, "
two different hypotheses
A New 'ruuoav or Puyslcs. -
355
have been proposed respecting the nature of heat. In
the first, it is regarded as a. material substance sui Lge-
neris, which -pervades all nature, and is capable of com-
bination with other bodies." "
In the other, heat is
regarded not as a material substance, but as a quality
of matter." A body is' said to manifest heat when "its
constituent molecules, or the molecules of some subtle
duid which pervades it, are
put into a state of vibra-
tion." This vibratory theory seems just a modidcation
of the hypothesis of Newton, and affords no adequate
solution of the question.
Two similar theories-the corpuscular and the undu-
~latory-have been -proposed with a view to explain the
phenomena of light. Both have been supported by
great authorities, and the question regarding their su-
perior merit still continues unsettled. It can be shown
that they are
equally gratuitous, unsatisfactory, and
unfounded. .
'
The great progress which has been made in the ex-
perimental sciences during the last half century, and
the many important discoveries which have rewarded
the industry and the ingenuity of their votaries, appear
to have now
brought the question respecting the nature
and causes of light and heat much nearer to a satisfac-
tory solution. Indeed, even previous to the period al-
luded to, the unity of the cause of these and other ele-
ments was
strougly suspected from the analogy of their
phenomena. -
356 srrzunix, No. ni.
The celebrated German metaphysician, Kant, in one
of those early treatises in which he displayed the same
penetrating sagacity and subtlety of genius in the phy-
sical as he subsequently manifested in the moral sciences,
has expressed himself, upon this subject, in the follow-
ing tenns of prophetic anticipation.
"
In general, the
magnetic powers, Electricity and Heat, appear to be
manifested through one and the same medium. They
can all be produced by friction, and I suspect that the
diference of polarity, and the opposition of the positive
and negative influence, might, by means of suitable ex-
periments, be as
clearly observed in the phenomena of
heat. The inclined plane of Galileo, the perpendicular
of Huygens, the quicksilver tubes of Tornbelli, the air-
pump of Otto Guerzkrlze, and the glass prism of Newton,
have given us the key to great natural secrets. The
positive and negative influence of substances, especially
in the case of electricity, to all appearance stillconwals
important scientific results; and a more
fortunate pos-
terity, whose happy days we
may anticipate in pros-
pect, will, it is hoped, recognise the general laws of
those phenomena which. at present, we perceive only
in an ambiguous connexion."
'
See Versuch dan Begnffder negativen Greissen in die Welhoeis-
lleit einzufiihren, originally published in 1763, and inserted in 'Iief.
trunk's Collection of Ksnt's miscellaneous writings. Considering the
state of the physical sciences at the period when this treatise was writ-
ten.-the science of Electricity was yet in its infancy,_the phenome-
na of Gslvsnism had not yet been brought to light,_Eleetro-Magnet-
A New 'rusomr or PHYSICS. 357
»
I believe it is now the general opinion of the most
eminent natural philosophers that light and heat are,
in substance, identical-that they manifest similar pro-
perties-that they are
probably derived from the same
source, and, in all likelihood, depend upon the same
principle. Radiation, for example, is well known to be
a common property of light and of heat. Dr Lardner
observes that "
a hot body, such as aball of iron, raised
to the temperature ,of 400°, placed in the middle of a
chamber, will transmit heat in every direction around it;
Now, this heat may easily he proved not to be trans-
mitted merely by means of the surrounding air; for
in that case the efect would be an
upward current of
hot air, which would ascend by reason of its comparative
lightness. On the other hand, the heat which proceeds
from the ball is found to be transmitted downwards,
horizontally, and obliquely, and in every possible direc-
tion. It is likewise transmitted almost instantaneously,
at least the time of its transmission is utterly inappre-
ciable. A delicate thermometer, placed at any distance
below the ball, will be immediately afected by it; and
the proof that this is true radiation, is found in the fact
that the rays may be intercepted by a screen composed
ism was
unknown,-the shove anticipation, so consistent with the re-
sults of subsequent investigation, appears truly wonderful, and worthy
of that genius which led the same eminent philosopher, from s
profound
consideration of the harmonious lsws of the universe, to predict the ex-
istsnce of the planet Herschel msuy years before its sctusl discovery.
358 APPENDIX, No. lu.
of a material not pervious to heat. The rays may be
proved to be transmitted inslraight lines` in exactly
the same manner, and by the same
reasoning, as is ap-
plied to rays of light. _
'
'
"
But the radiation of heat, independently of any
power of transmission which may reside in the air, is
put beyond dispute by the fact, that a thermometer sne-
pended in the receiver of an air-pump, when itis ei-
hausted, is affected by the solar rays directednpon it!!
The same philosopher afterwards remarks, that"' the
caloriiic property which constantly accompanies the
lar rays, as well as the rays proceeding from dame,
would indicate that heat is a
necessary concomitant or
property of light." Moreover, "
if rays of heat be re-
ceived on a concave redector, they will be reilected to a
focus in exactly the same manner as
rays of light ; and
in a word, all the phenomena explained in optics con-
cerning the rehection of light by siufaces, whether plane
or curved, are found to accompany the reflection of the
non-luminous caloriiic rays." Finally, this identity is
farther confirmed by theexperimentsof Berard, and
others, on the polarisation of light and heat.
In his treatise upon Electricity, in the valuable col-
lection published by the Society for the Diffusion of
Useful Knowledge, Dr Roget observes, that, "
besides
the well-known mechanical forces which belong to ordi-
nary ponderable matter, the phenomena of nature exhi-
hibit to our view mother class of powers, the pretence
A NEW 'ruaolw or Puvsxcs. 359
of which, although sufliciently characterised by certain
effects, is not attended with any appreciable change in
the weight of the bodies with which they are connect-
ed. To this class belong heat, light, electrzk-ity, and mag-
netism : each of which, respectively, produces certain
changes on material bodies, either of a mechanical or a
chemical nature, which it is natural to regard as the ef-
fects of motion communicated by the impulse of mate-
rial agents, of so subtile and attenuated a kind, as to
elude all detection when we
apply to them the tests of
gravity or inertia. If we admit heat and light to be
material, analogy will lead us to ascribe the same cha-
racter to electricity and to magnetism, notwithstanding
their being imponderable." And in the preface and
postscript to these treatises on the phenomena of elec-
tricity and magnetism, the same distinguished author
farther observes, that those phenomena which were
formerly regarded as the _effects of two perfectly dis-
tinct agents, are now discovered to have an intimate
relation to one another, and, in all probability, to be
dependent on one and the same principle."
Itwill be observed, that Dr Roget considers it natu-
ral to regard the changes produced on material bodies
by the action of heat, light, electricity, and magnetism,
as the effects of communicated motion. Now, Sir Hum-
phrey Davy argues, that the immediate cause of heat
is motion ; and "
that the laws of its communication are
precisely the same as the laws of motabn." This opi-
360 APPEN mx, No. ln.
nion of Sir Humphrey is entirely coincident with that
to be maintained in this paper; and if we are entitled
to assume, as warranted by correct induction from
experiment and observation, that light, heat, electri-
city, and magnetism are all dependent upon one com-
mon principle, and are, in fact, the results of commu-
nicated motion; the question then comes to be, lVbenee
ismotnbn itselfderived? Andif weare abletodiseo-
ver the ultimate natural cause of any one or more of
these classes of phenomena, it is highly probable that
the same principle will afford an adequate explanation
of the whole. It is the object of this paper to demon-
strate, that motion and heat are both the product of
one common cause; and that electricity and galvanism
are referable to the same source,-and are, in fact, pro-
duced by the agency of the fonner principles. This
demonstration, it is hoped,`vri1l conduct us to the source
of the elementary motion!
'
I have lately obtained possession of a small pamphlet, entitled,
"
Outlines of a Course of Lectures on Chemical Philosophy : or of a
Theory which considers Attraction, Repulsion, Electricity, Calorie,
Light, Sw. as the diversified phenomena and efects of one Power.
*By Matthew Allen, Lecturer, 8zc." Published at London in 1S19..._
This small publication, I presume, is no rarity. The author con-
siders all the phenomena of Nature to be dependent upon one sole
principle or power, which he denominates the Grand Agent. He very
ingeniously refers to the various phenomena of Attraction, Repulaion,
Light, Heat, Electricity, Gslvanism, Magnetism, &e. and ahewl that,
they are the diferent products of one cause, the undouhted eEects_ of
the Grand Agent of Nature, in some of its diverailied
But, however ingenious and sublime this synthetic view of Nature may
A NEW 'runorw or PHYSICS. 361
With regard to light and heat, it seems strange that
any doubt should ever have been entertained respect-
ing the source whence they are derived. Nature, at
once, and without the necessity of any philo ophical
hypothesis, compels us to refer the effects of light and
heat to the influence of the solar rays; and as we can
ascend no higher in our search after a natural cause of
these phenomena, and we know that motion is neces-
sary to their production, we are warranted in con-
cluding that the sun is the source of the elementary
motion. Light, heat, and motion, then, being all cen-
tered in the day-star, a little reflection will probably
convince us that the same iniluence is active in pro-
ducing the analogous phenomena of electricity and mag-
netism. It is well known, that, when the electrical
equilibrium of two bodies has been destroyed, its sud-
den restoration is attended with an exhibition of light,
and an intense heat; and a similar effect is observed to
take place in the Voltaic electricity. The reason of
this phenomenon will be explained in the sequel.
The iulluence of the sun, as an important secondary
cause or
agent in the economy of the universe, has been
more than suspected by many ingenious philosophical
writers. Sir Charles Bell, in the Introductory Chap-
be, the author does not pretend to point out what this Grand Agent
is in
itself; although, in other respects, his theory seems to coincide
entirely with that which I have undertaken to elucidate in thi paper.
vor.. 11. rx h
362 nrrnzmlx, No. nu.
ter to his Bridgewater Treatise, observes, that "
we
perhaps presume too much, when we
say that layht has
been created for the purpose of vision. We are hardly
entitled to pass over its properties as a chemical agent;
-its influence on the gases, and, in all probability, on
the atmosphere ;-its importance to vegetation, to the
formation of the aromatic and volatile principles, and
to fructiiiestion ;-its influence on the animal surface,
by invigorating the circulation, and imparting health,"
&c. ......
~
"
It seems more rational to consider light as second
only to attraction, in respect to its importance in Nm-
ture, and as a link connecting system of infinite re-
moteness."
The theory which maintains the identity of the came
of the phenomena of light, heat, motion, electricity,
magnetism, &c. and refers the whole to a
single and
simple principle-the ever-active influence of the rays
of the sun--is, at once, so natural and satisfactory, and
so fertile in its explanations of Nature, that it appears
almost wonderful how it should so long have escaped the
perspieacity of philosophical inquiry. Tb 'ell-ilu
Germ Phi1°¢°rh°r Okw Pr°P°1~1¢<i =
thwry, in
which he deduced, the phenomenon of light from the
action and re-action of the solar and planetary systems
upon each other. According to this hypothesis, the
sun alone is incapable of producing light, which is only
generated _by the conilict between the sun and the pla-
A N1-:W 'rH1=.onY or-' PHYSICS. 368
nets. Light, therefore, is produced by the activity of
the sun, modified by the re-action of the planets. This
theury, originally, I believe, suggested by Okeu, has
been systematically expounded and applied to the ex-
planation of other phenomena, by another ingenious
philosopher, Dr Runge, in an
essay entitled, "
Die Gene-
sis dee menslichen Magnehlsmus, in Professor Kieser's Ar-
divffir den bhdsclaen lfagnetismus, vols. 8. and 10.
A similar theory has been lately brought forward by
a
very intelligent French author, in an Essai de Psy-
ehobgie plzgsiologique, and he has explained and illus-
trated it with a copiousness, a clearness, and a
cogency
vvell calculated to rivet the attention, at least, if not to
ensure a
general conviction of its truth. I shall there-
fore take the liberty of entering at some
length into
the demonstration of this theory, as given by M. Char-
del.
I-litherto, according to this author, philosophers have
generally proceeded to the investigation of Nature by
the methods of analysis and decomposition-they have
attempted to advance from the compound to the simple
-they have carefully examined efects, and, after im-
mense labour, have declared that first principles are
undiscoverable, and that we ought to abandon the search
dher causes.
They observed the elasticity of solids and
duids, the formation of undulations, the phenomena of
seund, md its mode of propagation, and arrived at last
at the examination of those light, which, guided by
864 APPENDIX, No. lu.
a.
supposed analogy, they attributed to the elasticity of
a iluid difused throughout space, thus terminating
their inquiries by the assumption of a
gratuitous hypo-
thesis.
A question, however, may still arise, whether this
elasticity, which plays so
great a
part in physics, be
really a cause, or merely an effect. By investiga-
ting Nature awarding to a method more
analogous
to that which she follows in her operations, might
we not be led to recognise the properties of the isolar
rays as
producing, in the formation of compounds, the
sonorous
quality of the gases, the elasicity of fluids,
and that of solids? This method is simple, easyto
follow, and conducts us to none of those brilliant hy-
potheses, the very errors of which shed a lustre on the
genius of their authors, By pursuing it, we shall find
it unnecessary to invent any subsidiary hypotheses.
We have only to observe Nature, and endeavour to
ascertain the distinctive properties of her elements. _
A
single principle being once
demonstrated, all the conse-
quences immediately Bow from it in an
easy and natu-
ral order. _
' '
_
_
The cause of motion and of life appears to he the
same with that of light, heat, and elasticity. The sys-
tem we are about to expound, recognises two physical
elements-the terrestrial and the solar-matter-[and
motion. Matter is that which constitutes the con-
sistence of bodies. The rays of the sim unite with
A naw 'runorw or Pnvslcs. _
365
matter, and are thc sole and ever-active principle of
motion. It is they which constitute the life of beings;
for life is the cause of organic motion in vegetables and
animals. It will be easily perceived how fruitful this
discovery must prove in its application to the sciences.
Hitherto, the science of Physics has been unable to
find the element of motion, and abandons the research.
Physiology is ignorant of what life is, and yet pretends
to explain its phenomena; and Psychology, not know-
ing in what manner the spiritual faculties are united to
the organization, is compelled to investigate the opera-
tions of the intellect, as if they were performed inde-
pendently of the body; whereas, they are only mani-
fested through the intermediate agency of the corpo-
real organs, and Nature nowhere exhibits to as a soul
acting without a body.
Several philosophers have deservedly obtained great
reputation in consequence of the discoveries they have
made in the domain of experimental science, and a
number of most important facts have been elicited by
their genius and industry. But it may be doubted
how far it is advisable to restrict ourselves entirely to
the investigation of effects, systematically to *abandon
the examination of causes, even when they obtrude
themselves upon our notice, and to exhaust the geniu
of man in the accurate observation of the most minute
insulated details, which can never lead us to a
general
and satisfactory theory.
866 .
APPENDIX, No. ln.
All our knowledge ought to rest upon Physics, a
science which embraces all Nature; but at present, our
physical theories are merely ingenious methods, of no
other utility than to facilitate the calculation of results.
The science rests upon no solid foundation. It is di-
vided into two compartments-the collecting of obser-
vations, and the explanation of phenomena.
The utility of the first compartment is unquestion-
able, and it has been conducted with admirllie care
and precision; but the second, consisting of systems
produced by so much honourable labour, presents only
hypotheses so
unsatisfactory, that even those who make
use of them in their demonstrations seem to place little
confidence in them.
The system about to be unfolded, besides its simpli-
city, has the additional advantage of explaining every
thing upon a
single principle, and of affording a foun-
dation for the sciences of Physics, Physiology, and
Psychology.
When for agesfmen of genius have exhausted them»
selves in fruitless eiforts to ascertain the principles of
things, it is probable, either that success was impos-
sible, or that they had followed a wrong path. It is
necessary, therefore, either to abandon all research, or
to re-commence our investigations in another method!
°
This is quite in accordance with the opinion of Lord Bacon :
"
lnssnum quiddam asset, et in ss eoutrsrium. axistimars, ss, que
sdhuc nnnquam facts sunt, iieri posse, nisi per modes sdhuc nunqusm
tsutstos."-Nos. Organ. i. 6. Again:
"
Frnstrs magnum expects-
A New 'ruaomr or rnvslcs. 867
'The latter is' generally viewed by philosophers with
displeasure aiid disgust; for it is painful, after a career
of imagined glory, to be forced back to the point from
which we set out. ,
The study of Nature commenced with the examina-
tion of bodies, because they were easily apprehended;
and first were observed their consistence, their weight,
and their form. These bodies, however, are
composed
of different materials, and it was soon perceived that
several of them had a common basis : it was thought
possible, by decomposing them, to arrive at iirst pria-
ciples. Nature forms aggregations, by means of ele-
mentary substances, and attempts were made by philo-
sophers to discover these elements, by undoing her
work. She begins at the beginning-they began at
the end, proceeding from the compound to the simple.
Such was the direction given to the first labours of
philosophers! their object was to discover the secret
of Nature in the decomposition of bodies. This me-
thod, which has been constantly followed since, has led
to the verification of a
great number of eEects in Phy-
sics; but it has rendered the discovery of causes al-
most impossible, and given occasion to the substitution
of hypotheses necessarily chimerical. To convince us
tur sugmentum in seientiis ex superinductioue et insitiona novorum
super voters; sed instauratio facienda estab fundsmentis, nisi li.
beat perpetuo circumvolvi in_orbem, cum exili et quasi eontemnendo
progressu."-Ibid. 31.
368 APPENDIX, No. lu.
of this, it will be sudicient to give a brief outline of
the progress of science.
'
The first Natural Philosophers called matter the sub-
stance upon which nature impresses all forms ; they
supposed that it was
homogeneous, and designated bythe
same word the paste or mould common to the genera-
lity of things. They gave no name to the moving prin-
ciple, although it is still more universal, because it was
intangible, and their investigations were limited to that
which fell under their hands. Experience demonstrated
that bodies resist impulse in a ratio corresponding to
their mass; and from thence were deduced the inerth
of matter, and the calculation of the laws of motion.
These ideas of inerhh and motion, then led the phy¢
sical philosophers, who had decided that all was inert
matter, to recognise in nature a
principle of attraction
and a principle of repulsion. At a
subsequent period,
they attempted to explain motion and rest by declaring
that they were modes of being in bodies-as if these
modes of being had not a cause. These contradictions
were the consequence of that confusion of language
which, under the name of matter, designated the union
of two different elements, one of which remained uns
perceived. We owe the idea of rest to that substance
which constitutes the consistence of things ; and if this
material element is essentially immoveable, it is evident
that some other principle must agitate nature, 'because
every part of it is in motion.
A N1-:W 'runoair or PHYSICS. 369
Moreover, rest is the negation of motion, as darkness
is the privation of light; and we may consider it as de-
monstrated that matter is essentially immoveable, since
the dimculty of setting it in motion increases in the
ratio of its mass. Originally, tangible substance was
considered as the sole element in nature, and this- was
called matter. The word acquired a more extended
signilication in the progress of discovery, and, at pre-
sent, it designates the unknown cause of all known eff
fects. In order to give more precision and exactnesl
to the expression, it is necessary to bring it back to its
original meaning, and to give the name of matter only
to
that substance which constitutes the consistence of
bodies.
Heat producesa
particular sensation,and it was thought
to have a special principle. Experience subsequently
established the fact that caloric was the cause of the
elasticity of fluids; but the same thing could not be
said of the elasticity of solids, the vibrations of which
were
confounded with the sonorous quality, which, to
speak properly, belongs only to the gaseous combina-
tions. -
,
The motion of liquid umdulations served to explain
the propagation of sound and of light. It was at iirst
supposed that undulations were formed in the air, and
there propagated sounds ; but when arrived at light, it
was found necessary to create a substance adapted to
invest the undulating forms ; for, in this respect, nature
370 APPENDIX, No. 111;
presented nothing. It was
imagined, therefore; that
an
imperceptible ether was diffused throughout space,
which transmitted to us the vibrations supposed to exist
in luminous bodies.
Such was the progress of science, advancing from the
compound to the simple.
The human mind, in general, only makes new acqui-
sitions in order to connect them with the old. Science,
in undoing the works of .nature, had at first only met
with compound properties, and when arrived at the
simplicity of light, it was
attempted to explain the phe-
nomena
according to the analogies previously observed,
that is to say, the unknown element which now pre-
sented itself was examined along with the known pro-
perties it had exhibited in combining with bodies.
Thi absurdityin Physics is one of the consequences
of
the method of investigation adopted. from
the compound we advance to the simple, the compound
properties are necessarily _investigated first; they be-
come the basis of our subsequent knowledge, and when
the elements afterwards present themselves, our sys-
tems are
already completed, and, with their aid, we at-
tempt to explain the inexplicable simplicity of irst
principles.
Philosophers, in advancing from elasticity to sonor-
ousness, and from the latter tolight, arrived, at length,
at an elementary substance; and as elements cannot be
explained, the explanation they attempted must neces-
A New 'runoxw or rmrsics. 371
sax-ily have been chimerical. I shall prove that it is so
in reality, and that all elasticity is produced by the com-
binations of the solar rays with matter. I shall begin
hy examining what confidence is due to that ether, with
which the natural philosophers attempt to account for
the phenomena of light.
When an
hypothesis takes place of an element of na-
ture, it ought to be everywhere recognised. Thus the
undulations of the ethereal Huid had this fate; to them
were attributed the production of light, of colours, of
heat, and of the chemical combinations. Their sub-
stance was declared to be homogeneous; but in order
to produce so many different effects, they were sup-
posed to be of various extent, and philosophers-even
went so far as to calculate the size of every undulation,
yellow, green, or blue.
`
-
It would appear that, in creating the hypothesis of an
ethereal Enid, the origin of the properties ascribed to
it had been forgotten. ln point of fact, we know that
caloric is the productive cause of all fluidity ; and it has
been demonstrated to be.the cause of the elasticity of
fluids. It; then, the nndulations of the ethereal iluid
were the source of heat, we might ask-whence does
this other itself derive its fluidity and its elasticity.
This question could only be answered by supposing it
to possess an inherent duidity and elasticity, which
would be to make it an element; but, in that case, why
create an ether, without any evidence of its existence,
372 APPENDIX, No. 111.
'
when it were more natural and more simple to recog-
nise immediately the same
properties in the rays of the
sun? Science would undoubtedly have adopted this
idea, if it had not
already investigated the elasticity of
compounds, their fluidity and their undulations; the ob-
ject was to connect the phenomena of light with those
previously observed, and, thenceforward, there was
imagined in space a
peculiar elasticity, which may be
supposed to exist in vibration.
Such is the origin of the ethereal fluid, and the ques-
tion to be solved might be reduced to this,' Is it the
light which produces the elasticity, or the elasticity
which produces the light P' The answer would not
long continue doubtful for him who should consult only
his instinct, and nobody would ever have thought of
creating an ether and undulations in place of the solar
rays, if an erroneous direction had not been previously
given to the study of nature.
The method of reversing the order of formation, by
ascending from compounds to their elements, has led
to materialism ; for as soon as the human intellect
had first laid hold of the tangibility of bodies, it was
forced to make this the resting point of all certainty,
and the basis of all future knowledge. If; on the con-
'
The elasticity of bodies is a compound property which does not
manifest itself spontaneously; au action is necessary to set it in play x
therefore, in order to complete the explanation of light by means of an
ether, it was
necessary to create vibrations in luminous-bodies.
A NEW THEORY or Pnvslcs. 373
trary, philosophers had commenced by ascertaining the
properties of light, they would have become convinced
that nature contains two principles, and they would
then have investigated their different combinations!
This method was simple, and in all probability it
would have been followed had it presented itself first;
but now it is opposed to that which has been adopted;
and the prejudices over which reason triumphs with
most diiliculty, are always those of science; they have
exerted the most troublesome induence in all depart-
ments. Physics owe to them their ignorance of first
motions; Physiology, that of the vital principle; and
Metaphysics, the impossibility of explaining the wil-
nexion between' the will and the acts of the organism.
Moreover, the elasticity of the ethereal Enid was not
snicient for the explanations of the physical philoso-
phers, and in order to set it in play, they imagined the
vibrations of luminous bodies. Thus, there was a se-
cond hypothesis brought forward in support of the first.
A third would have been required in order to explain
the formation of the vibratory apparatus, and then a
fonrth,'to inform us how they begin to vibrate in com-
bustion; but philosophers had the prudence to stop. It
is no less certain that the continuation of these explana-
tions led to the necessity of creating first principles,
'
The element of tangibility is also that of immobility, for that
which constitutes the consistency of bodies also constitutes their re-
pose; so that we
may consider the universe as
containing two general
principles-that of rest, and that of motion.
374 Arrmmrx, No. ur.
whida, without the aid of so many hypotheses, might
have been recognised, at once, in the solar rays.
In truth, when we ask natural philosophers the cause
of the solar vibrations, they abandon their suppositions,
and answer that principles are not capable of explana-
tion. But here there is no question about a principle,
for the vibrations are accidents which science ought to
account for. _
We can conceive, that if light be ll element of na-
tnre, it should escape from bodies which are
destroyed
by combustion ; but we cannot so
easily conceive how
philosophers have admitted into every combustible mo-
lecule an invisible vibratory apparatus formed in imita-
tion of that which they suppose to exist in the mn."
Besides, the rays of the day-star change their direction,
and become inflected in order to reach us. Light, then,
is a substance ; lin- attraction would not exert my par-
ticular inlluence on the undulations of aduid, which, in
rest as in motion, always equally occupied space.
The rapidity of the vibratory propagations depends
upon the_ power of aggregation in the bodies which re-
ceive them.-|- We know, for example, that they ad-
'
We might add, that the combustion of bodies would destroy the
vibratory apparatus by setting it in motion, while in the sau it would
be indestructible and in perpetual activity.
1' The mode of aggregation in the gases should be more intense than
that in the ether, if we judge from the resistance which they present:
how comesit, then, thstthepropsgatiouofsoundinthesirissodow
when we
compare it with that of light, which B attributed to the ul-
dulations of the ethereal Enid ? . .
A N1-:w 'rrmolnr or Pnvsxcs. 375
vance more rapidly in certain solids than sounds in the
air ;' and we ask how it happens that they should be
so rapid in an ether, of which the parts have no cohe-
sion among themselves.
The necessity of explaining the diversity of colours
has alone led to the supposition of the inequality of the
luminous undulations, for the rings of the liquid undu-
lations have always the same thickness; but this ine-
quality should be destroyed in their rencounter, and
produce new undulations necessarily uniform. Never-
theless, the experiment of the prism recalls all the co-
lours, and makes them reappear.
Shall we suppose that the luminous undulations meet
and mingle, and that each preserves its peculiar form P
This is conceivable, if light be the elementary motion;
for it may he composed of motions of several natures ;
but this 'phenomenon is impossible in the case of com-
municated motions.
Finally, the luminous rays seem to model themselves
upon bodies, because they present us
with their forms,
a htwllieh iil agrees with the determinate form of
ethereal undulations.
i
These observations appear suilicient to demonstrate
the non-existence of the ether and its undulations. All
these hypotheses, we cannot too often repeat, owe their
'
A blow has been struck upon pipes of cut-metal of the length of
900 metres, md we are assured thstthe vibration arepropsgeted more
rspidlyinthe metslthensosmdsinthesir.
376 arrsumx, No. II/If _
origin to the method of decomposition, which, advanc-
ing from the compound to the simple, has given an erf
roneous direction to the investigation of nature.
The luminous emissions are e fact attested by our
senses. Euler was the first to doubt them, because he
thought they would exhaust the day-star. But Nature
every where reproduces herself by recommeucing the
circle; and it is probable that light is conducted back
to its source by an unknown route,' as the rains restore
to the ocean the waters it has lost by evaporation.
The direct testimony of the senses has lost its autho-
rity, nnd philosophers go in search of truth by more in-
direct methods, ever since Galileo discovered that they
had deceived us in respect to the immobility of the
'
The earth receives the greater number of solar rays-the elemen-
tary motion-between the tropics, and, after having made use of them,
parts with them at the poles. This, perhaps, is the cause of the
aurora borealis, and of the accumulation of electricity which is ob-
served in these regions. This may also be the cause of the motion of
the globe on its axis, for all the motions of the earth are
produced by
the rays ofthe sun. The impulse which they occasion gives it, and
the internal agitation they produce may explain its diurnal rotation,
and its annual revolution.
Attraction manifests in bodies an active power which matter, elen-
tially inert, could not communicate to them. Attraction is perhaps
produced by the elective aliinity which is observed between motion and
matter. This aliiuity acquires a material action in bodies; come-
quentiy, it tends to re-unite them, and increases in a ratio composed of
their mass and their distance. Moreover, we know that the magnet
and the electric Buid attract iron and several other substances; and
magnetism, galvanism, and electricity, are only modiicatiol of the
motion of the earth, which has been already explained.
A New 'rnnonr or PHYSICS. 377
earth. In that case, however, reasoning was more to
blame than they in leading us into error, by transfer-
ring to the relations of the heavenly bodies a proposi-
tion which was
unquestionably true in reference to our-
selves.
Science had discovered that light contains the colours.
From this it was a
necessary inference that it fixed it-
self in bodies, because they were coloured. This would
have been simple as nature. On the contrary, it was
supposed that the colour of bodies was
only a
pheno-
menon of redection, of which an explanation was at-
tempted hy saying that they appeared white when they
reflect equally the luminous undulations, and black when
they extinguish them, and that the other colours are
the result of intermediate effects. This ingenious hy-
pothesis is by no means satisfactory, for by throwing
red rays upon a
yellow body, it is made to appear
orange; that is to say, of its own colour compounded
with that of the light thrown upon it : therefore,
the colours exist simultaneously in the light and in
bodies. _
It is remarkable that the creation of false systems
almost always requires a
greater eH"ort of
ingenuity
than the discovery of simple truth. By a
fatality not
easy to explain, men of science are
generally dispo ed
to keep at a distance from the easy route : it appears,
that, in order to attract their attention, some reasoning
_
vox.. n. I i
878 APPENDIX, No. lu.
is necessary, suliiciently ingenious to be incomprehen-
sible by the common sense of the unlesrned. lt; with
less labour, philosophers had convinced themselves that
the colouring of bodies depended upon the olar rays
which became iixed in them, it would have followed
that it was
they which, in combustion, produced, in es-
caping, light and heat. '
This discovery led to that of elementary motions;
'
We should the more
readily admit that combustion is nothing else
than s
disengagement of the solar rays, because this explanation pre-
sents,inthecaseofallartiii¢cial lights,an unityofcause andasim-
plicity of means
entirely conformable to the march of Nature (CL)
I hke the liberty of adding the following passage from Dr Rogefs
Treatise on Electricity:
"
The particles of air electriied by a
conductor are
repelled by that conductor, and repel it also; and, more-
over, repel one another: and the same elfect takes place whether their
electric state be of the positive or negative kind. Hence the stream
of air which proceeds from any electriied point ie very naturally ac-
counted for. If the quantity of electricity which is transferred is con-
siderable, it excites a more violent commotion among the particles
which it induences in its passage. The intense energy of its repul-
sive action produces the most sudden and forcible expansion of that
portion of the air which occupies this line; this air, thus expanding,
must be expelled laterally against the surrounding particles, and must
occasion their sudden compression. The evolution of heat and Hgh!"
-of the solar rays, according to M. Chardel-" ia the necessary cms.
sequence ofthis violent compression."
Atmospheric air, when suddenly condensed, produces such a consi-
derable extrication of caloric, that cotton, and even heated charcoal,
have been set on lire by it. Instances of this will be found in the air-
gun, in compressing pumps for kindling tinder by means of violent
compression from a single smart stroke of the piston, in pereumion-
locks for fowling-pieces, Sw.
The cause of this phenomenon is easily explained upon the principles
laid down by M. Chardel.-(L C. C.)
A NEW 'rluomr or rl-wslcs. 379
for communicated motions cease as soon as they meet
with adequate resistance; while light, retained in com-
pound bodies, preserves its intrinsic activity, and es-
capes from them with its original velocity.
The luminous emanations snmce for all explanations;
but they were examined alter the impulsions, and
the mind, pre-occupied with the calculation of mate-
rial displacements, did not recognise motion in itself,
because it is intangible. This was another conse-
quence of the method of study. When the investiga-
tion of Nature has once commenced with the consist-
ence of bodies, we endeavour to make every. thing
hinge upon it. Thus, as soon as there is a want of
materiality, the Held of hypotheses opens, and it is then
that philosophers proceed to create an ethereal fluid,
sonorous or luminous undulations, and vibrator-y appa-
ratus, in order to set them in motion.*
-
All these lictions were diilicult to invent, and re-
quired learning, and even
genius; while the mere ob-
servation of that which exists, would have been alone
snicient to enable ns to recognise the truth. 1-
°
The systsm of solar emissions adopted by Newton, is anterior to
dist of luminous undnlstions; but it was found insniieient, because it
was conceived after the observation of the emissions, in ad-
vancing from the compound to the simple-a method from which science
hal never departed, and which must lead it astray from the nature of
principles. The motion of light is not the result of an
impulsinn, but
of the motility inherent in itself; for it is the elementary motion, and
all impnlsions depend upon it more or less immediately.
1' One might be tempted to apply to the present method of physical
880 APPENDIX, No. ur.
The_ sun is the sole source of motion; his rays ani-
mate nature by combining with it; and combustion af-
terwards does nothing else than reproduce them to our
eyes. They are the principle of vitality, and it is they
which, absorbed bythe earth, constitute the latent heat
of Dr Black; for heat is nothing more than aname
given to the agitation they produce in matter. I
shall by-and-by explain this phenomenon, but_I must
first say a word or two with regard to the sonorvous
undulations, and their progress.
The idea of hypothetical undulations is borrowed from
liquids. They owe the property of forming them to
the special mode of agglomeration which places them
between solids and fluids, by giving to their parts too
much union to permit them to separate without efort,
and not enough to produce vibrations. It is not the
same either with the gases or with solid bodies, which,
consequently, can never produce real undulations. Phi-
losophers, however, without being arrested by this dif-
ficulty, which they do not appear to have perceived,
have determined that undulations are formed in the air,
and that sonorousness is merely an
application of the
elasticity of bodies to a
particular use. By this means,
they confound vibrations and sounds, which it is neces-
sary to distinguish, if these two phenomena of elasti-
city be produced, as I think they are, by combinations
investigation these words of the sacred writer, Amlndaeimuc vias daff-
cilea, et erravimur a via oerilatia.
A New 'rnnorw or ruvsrcs. 381
in which motion acts in an
opposite manner. It ap~
pears to me, in reality, that, in solids, matter absorbs
motion and retains it in the bodies ; hence their consist-
ency and the immobility of their forms; whereas, in
iiuids, on the contrary, it is motion which holds matter
in solution; hence an internal circulation, and the con-
tinual expansion of the molecules, which does not per-
mit them to stop at any determinate form.
The vibrations of solids are the result of accidental
impulsions communicated at short distances following
the continuity of their aggregationsg* whilst in Buids
there exists no material aggregation-it is motion
which in them is found in a state of continuity, and the
vibratory accidents only impress upon it an
agitation
of a peculiar nature, which, in certain cases, produces
sounds# _
It is astonishing that philosophers, who consider the
propagation of sounds in the air as a
phenomenon of
elasticity, should have borrowed, in order to explain
it, the idea of undulations in liquids ; for these last are
'
Strike a beam at one extremity, the vibration is immediately com-
municated to the other ; but it ceases if you strike it transversely: thus
it follows the direction of the Ebres.
1' The uniformity of the internal motion of the air much
more simply the equality of the propagation of sounds, than all the hy-
potheses whieh have been so laborioualy excogitatsd upon this subject.
When the vibrations of the sonorous bodies bear principally upon the
motion of the gaseous combinations, the sound produced is of great pu-
rity; and, on the contrary, the more they act upon the material part,
the more noise is the result.
`
382 APPENDIX, No. xn.
nothing but air divested of the caloric which rendered
it elastic.
In truth, the principle of heat is no better known
than that of elasticity; but let any one examine the
nature of the solar rays, and he will be convinced that
they are motion in themselves, and that heat is nothing
else than the agitation they produce in bodies.
The solar rays, or, if you please, caloric communicates
to fluid combinations an internal action which resists
compression, being always at work to extend their ma-
terial part; this is called their elasticity!
Solids present an opposite combination ; in them the
tangible part predominates ; it exists in a state of con-
tinuity, and motion, confined within the forms, confers
upon them the power of returning to themselves when
opposed: Such is the cause of the phenomena of elasti-
city by iiexion and by extension.
These explanations, which are believed to be as true
as they are
simple, may be applied to Physiology. In
fact, muscular coutractility and excitability are
pheno-
mena of elasticity produced by the vital element in ani-
mals, which form it by individualising motion. It is
°
In the gaseous combinations, motion constantly Iabours to expand
matter, which confers upon them an internal action to rnist compres-
sion; but if the latter is more powerful, it draws od' the material part
of the gas, _and the light is disengaged : this is what hkes place in Che
experiment of the briquet pasumatique, where the material part of the
air being suddenly withdrawn, leaves the elementary motion st liberty,
that is to say, the solar rays, which immediately escape.
A new 'ruzonv or ruvsxcs. 388
always an intemal power, generated by the union of
the solar rays with matter; for life is nothing else than
this; everywhere, by combining, they confer upon com-
pound bodies their appropriate action. This is the se-
cret of nature; and if the cause has remained so long
concealed under its effects, it is because science has
been confined to the observation of the latter.
It has been supposed that there existsinthe universe
an attractive and a
repulsive principle ; and the elasti-
city of solids has been ascribed to the former, and that
of fluids to the latter. This error is another conse-
quence of the method of investigation. When the exa-
mination of nature commences with compound bodies,
opposite effects give rise to the supposition of contrary
causes, although it is evident that the accidents of elas-
ticity are all phenomena of motion.
From the period when Newton discovered that the
elasticity of sum. W..
owing fa the mimic lodged in
the interstices of their molecules, it was
experimentally
demonstrated that that of solids had the same cause.
In fact, it was
enough to place water on the ire to be
convinced that the gaseous elasticity was
produced by
the calorie which disengaged itself from the solid when
in a state of combustion. The principle of elasticity,
then, only makes solids pass into iiuids by changing the
mode of combination!
'
The operation of this principle may be exempliied by a
very sim-
ple experiment.
"
Let a small quantity of water be placed in a glau-
884. APPENDIX, No. 111.
Natural philosophy constantly speaks of fluids with-
out properly defining what fluidity is. It is unques-
tionable, however, that liquefaction, vaporizatiou, and
electro-magnetism present a series of phenomena in
llask of considerable size, and then closed so as to prevent the escape
of any vapour. Let this vessel be now
placed over the dame of a
spi-
rit-lamp, so as to cause the water it contains to boil. For a consider-
able time the water will be observed to boil, and apparently to
in quantity, until at length all the water disappears, and the veuel is
apparently empty. If the vessel he now removed from the lamp, and
suspended in a cool atmosphere, the whole of the interior of it surhee
will presently appear to be covered with a dewy moisture; and at length
a
quantity of water will collect in the bottom of it, equal to which
had been in it at the commencement of the process. That no water
has at any period of the experiment escaped from it, may be easily de-
termined, by performing the experiment with the glass desk suspended
from the arm of a balance counterpoised by a sulhcient weight suspend-
ed from the other arm. The equilibrium will he preserved through.
out, and the vessel will be found to have the same weight, when to all
appearance it is empty, as when it contains the liquid water. It is evi-
dent, therefore, that the water exist: in the vessel in every smge of the
process, but that it becomes invisible when the process of has
continued for a certain length of time, and it may he shewn that it will
continue to be invisible, provided the desk he exposed to a
temperature
considerably elevated. Thus, for example, if it be suspended in aves-
sel of boiling water, the water it contains will continue to be invisible;
but the moment it is withdrawn from the boiling water, and exposed to
the cold air, the water will again become visible, forming a dew on the
inner surface, and linally collecting in the bottom, as in the commence-
ment of the experiment.
"'
ln fact, the liquid has, by the process of boiling, been converted in-
to vapour or steam, which is a
body similar in its leading properties to
common air, and, like it, is invisible. It likewise possesses the pro-
perty of elasticity, and other mechanical qualities enjoyed by gases in
general."-Laamlaa, On Heat. (J. C. C.)
A Nr-:w 'rm-:ony or PHYSICS. 885
which motion goes 'on increasing `until it attains to
light, where it stops as at its source.* ~ ~
It is of consequence, in investigating the formation
of sonorousness, to examine the transition from the
elasticity of solids toithat of snide. _
Liqhids; placed
in the intermediate state, show how the 'change is ef-
fected, and the proof of their small share of sonorous-
ness results from the obstacle they oppose to the pro-
pagation of sounds.'|' -We know, for instance, that a
thick mist stops them at a short distance, and that the
most sonorons bodies cease to 'produce sound when
plunged into a liquid. Again, in the muteness of fishes
we iind a
proof of the insonorous nature of water. The
percussions of a bell placed under the exhausted re-
ceiver of an air-pump, prove that sound is extinguished
in a vacuum, and that it revives upon the readmission
of air; hence the conclusion that it (the air) was the
only really sonorons body. It has been since believed
that sonorousness is a property of all vibrations, because
they create sound upon reaching our
earsq; But these
'
Heat liqueies, and ends by reducing to vapour the greater part of
solids, and we have seen that caloric is only s name given to the solar
rays combined in bodies. Moreover, it is well known that Electro-
Msgue&m sbounds in luminous phenomena.
1' The diminution of sound follows the progress of the solidiicstion
of the gases, md the contrary is observed in the vsporisetion of solids.
We may conclude from this, that sonorousness is s
property peculiar to
the nature of the gaseous elasticity.
I The sounds produced in the sir contained in our ears do not prose
vor.. u. x k
886 arrszunxx, No. ul.
contain air, and notwithstanding the experiments to the
contrary, it seemsto he rigorously demonstrated :lm
vibrations are not sounds, because deafness allows those
to feel vibrations who are insensible to sounds. Be-
sides, we have just seen that the former reach as in
consequence of a series of material shocks, which are
communicated at small distances, while the latter are
transmitted to us
by the internal motion of the air,
which does not permit matter to conglomerate-"
'
In fact, it is to the continuity of the solid combina-
tions that they owe the property of forming vibrations,
whilst, on the contrary, it is the dissolution of matter
in the _motion of the gases which constitutes their so-
norousness. Thus, in thetransitiol of ice to the state of
vapour, sonorousness is manifested after the
has disappeared, and we may be assured that the con-
trary takes place in the opposite transition. Liquids,
of which theconsistence is intermediate, are remarkable
for the struggle which their ephemeral and ambiguous
state
presents; for in them motion labonrs to .dissolve
that the vibrations which cause them lI6~|0llll¢| but tht the conti-
nuity of the molecules transmits the vihrdoas. p
.
'
The touch inspires u with so much eontidsnes, that attempt lnve
been made to assimilate all our other senlaions to these we derive
from it. The sensation of touch, however, result from immediate
material contact, and tht of sight, ol the contrary, Ewing to the
impressionswsrsceivs from something immaterial and intsrmedits:
the one addresses itself principally to the of the 'olgh, ie
ether to which anilstssthsm. The o&ss sales all partici-
pate, in different proportions, in these two modes of afeehd.
A New 'rusonv or Pnysrcs. 887
matter, which last, on the other hand, has a constant
tendency to conglomerate; so that the sounds therein
formed are innnediatdy arrested, and the vibrations
become clnnged into undalations.
Make water pass into the state of cnngelation-it
becomes solid; ill molecules conglomerate, and elasticity
by flexibility is manifested. Expose it to heat-it be-
comes liquid, its motion is-increased, its partsbavealmost
no coherence, and the elasticity by ilexibility disappears.
Finally, reduce the water to steam-its volume then
augments predigiously, the continuity of motion takes
place of that of matter, elasticity by compressibility is
manifested, nd sonoreusness along with it.
Caloric prednminates in the gases, whilst it is im-
prisoned in the forms of solid bodies; _hence the so-
noromneas of the one, and the vibraciq ef the other.
What has been ssidof the diversityof sisein the
luminous nndnintiont is, in all respects, applicable to
the sonorous. It is asserted that the extent of the
latter varies from the infinitely small to thirty-two feet;
and to give some consistency to this supposition, it is
sought to be supported by calculations which are
inap-
plicable to it. _
`
It is certain that, in the formation of sounds, the ra-
pidity of the vibrations increases in the ratio of the
shortening of the sonorons body, so that the diminution
of length is exactly compensated by the increased ra-
pidity.
'
The pipe of an organ, for example, which be-
388 APPENDIX, No. ln.
ing thirty-two feet long, vibrates thirty-two times in a
second, would vibrate sixty-four times, if it were only
sixteen feet long. This applies to all lengths, and to
all degrees of velocity, when compared! Proceeding
fiom this observation, it has been supposed that _ana-
logous undulations propagated sounds in the air, and
their size has been measured by establishing a
propor-
tion between the time employed and the space tra-
versed; but 'the exactness of this calculation, which
rests upon the examination of vibrations, prove; no-
thing in regard to the supposed existence of gaseous
undulations, and, in this the question remains
entire. It has been already demonstrated that the na-
ture of the gaseous combinations does not permit the
formation of nndulations; and it can be shewn that all
the accidents which affect the rapidity of the vibrations,
such as
shortening the size and tension of the sonorous
body, partake of the nature of the solid aggregations,
and are
inapplicable to those of gases, so that nothing
analogous can be prodnced.-|-
Philosophers do not clearly explain how sonorons nun-
'
The relation between the length of the sonorous body and the ra-
pidity of its vibrations, upon which, it would appear, the size of the
sonorous undulations is made to depend, is not applicable to
instruments; for tension increases the rapidity of their vibntiosh,
without altering the length of the vibrating body.
-|- Fluids are not susceptible either of tension or of shortening. All
these changes are accidents which affect the form of bodies, and Enid;
have none.
-
'
A NEW THEORY OF PHYSICS. 389
dulations are
formed, and still less how, with an extent
of thirty-two feet, they are enabled to' advance un-
broken. Besides, we know that sounds, when expiring
in the air, _produce the 12th and 17th sharp, and make
their octaves resound; whence it would follow that a
single undulation' could produce others of every size( --
-The 'phenomena of sound have a
great analogy to
those of light, for the latter contains the colours nearly
as the motion ofthe air contains sounds. An accident
of refraction displays the one-an accident of vibration
causes the others to be heard; and it is remarkable that
the minor
gamut presents the sounds in the same order
as the colours are presentedin the successivehands of the
rainbow.
'
Moreover, these phenomena have a common
origin, for we are
indebted' forlight to the free 'expan
sion of the solar rays, and for sound to the' continual
motion _they maintain in the gaseous combinations. 1 ~
Light, heat, and
elasticity are
produced by the ele-
mentary motion; we call light the cause of the impres-
sions which our eyes receive" from it; heat; the sensa-
tion which it makes us experience when it
penetrates
our
organism; and elasticity, the action it
communicates
to compound bodies hycombining with them.
'
The solar rays enlighten us so
long as they continue
to expand around us; but light ceases as soon as
they
are arrested in a combination. They warm the atmo-
sphere by uniting ~with the vapnurs exhaled by the
earth; and if we examine the processes of nature, we
»
890 APPENDIX, No. ma; =
may easily assure ourselves that they enter into the
formation of all vegetables.
In fact, a tree, when growing, fhily absorbs and con-
founds with its substance a certain quantity of 'solar
rays; but they may be seperated again by burning it,
and then light is reproduced; for combunion disunites
the elements which its vegetation had collected to-
gether!
'
'Die solar rays agitste the molecules of bodies in pe-
netrating them. This' agitation is what we call heat;
it is the operation which precedes the formation, or
which accompanies the destruction of compound bodies;
it places itself in equilibrium and communicates itself]
for motion engaged in matter extends itself until it
either becomes Exed or
All combustion disengagesmotion, and, consequently,
produces heat; but the cause of the latter does not be-
come luminous until it entirely abandons matter, and
reproduces itself at liberty;-until then, the eEects of
heat approximate those of light in proportion as its in-
tensity increases.1' .
To the rays of the sun we are indebted for light and
heat; but the one is the effect of the expansion of mo-
tion nncombined with matter, and the other is only a
name given to the agitation which it carries into rmtter
'
Friction produces heat, because it destroys the bodies, and re-
places in expansion the motion which us combhed in them.
1- An intense heat traverses crystal nearly in the same way as light,
whilst it obstructs a moderate host.
A New 'ranonr or rnvsxcs. 391
upon entering it. Thence it happens that, in propor-
tion as ive recede from the earth, the light of day in-
creases, while heat diminishes. It is certain that at a
great elevation, even under the tropics, the snow never
melts. '
Thus, in order to separate the solar rays from the
heat they produce, it is sumcient to insulate them from
the terrestrial emanations; this eifect is obtained arti-
ficially under the receiver of the air-pump, and the
same thing occurs naturally beyond the atmospheric
air.* -
The sun and the earth are the sources of motion and
of the consistcnce of bodies, and we are
onlysurrounded
by diferent combinations formed by their union.
~
These maybe arranged in three principal classes, re-
latively to the decrease of motion-Fluids, Liquids, and
Solids. The earth furnishes the basis of the consistence
of bodies; it is this substance which we call matter. It
is impossible, in the present state, to disengage it en-
tirely from inotion; but experience proves that the den-
sity nnd _#city of bodies diminish as motion increases,
and augment, on the contrary, when it is withdrawn.
°
Although the rays of the sua Ent reach the heights, before they
descend into the valleys, nevertheless heat is always formed in the
plains; and experience proves that combustion diifnses less heat in
very elevated situations, as has been observed in Thibet. Moreover,
we ill appreciate the heat of the sun when we
judge of it by the efects
which his rays produce upon the earth ; for heat results from the mix.-
tnre : The solar nys are the elementary motion, and heat is the agira.
tion which they earryinto matter when they penetrate it.
892 APP!-mmx, No. ur.
_
We knew, for example, that the augmentation of heat
converts water into steam, and that its subtraction
makes it pass into the state of ice. In solids, matter
predominates, giving us the idea of rest. Liquids,
placed in an intermediate state, preserve a doubtful
character ; a little more motion converh them into
smm, . mas lm mam them solid. with regard 5
fluids, and especially the electric fluid, they present us
with motion almost without restraint; and it may bé
proper w say a word or two of this last, before pro-
ceeding to discuss the formation of individual life, with
which it has the greatest analogy. .
~
At present, we
designate, under the name of Electro-
Magnetism, the cause of the magnetic, galvanic, and
electric phenomena. The electro-magnetic fluid is n
mixt substance, in which the solar rays exist in super-
abundance. It is in some sort the life of the earth, for
it is that portion of the elementary motion of which it
forms its own
particular motion! Its rapidity has not
yet been calculated, but it is far from being equal to
that of light, because it only makes our
planet traverse
about 23,000 leagues in an hour.'|'
'
This explains the inlluence of the sun
upon the magnetic pheno-
mena, its connexiun with the variations of the magnetic needle, and the
difference of the
galvanic states in bodies, produced by change of tem-
perature. It appears that we have succeeded, by insulating the-violet
rays of light, and causing them to hll upon steel needles, in rendering
the latter magnetic; which presupposes a strong analogy, if not a com-
plete identity, between them and the electric iluid. ~
1° Light requires no more than eight minutes to travel about thirty-
four millions of leagues, which separate us from the sun. -
A NEW 'rm-:oar or rnvsrcs. 398
.
The union of the two elements in electricity gives to
its action a character of violence which is capable of
breaking in- pieces the most'solid bodies, whereas, light
does not allow ns to perceive the possibility of a cel-
lision. In the latter, all is motion-it matter
and can separate its molecules; but it never
with the consistency of substsucesf# i _
'
~
_ Tlfe phenomena of tlleelectroémagnetic fluid have an
analogy with those of the individual life ; it is produced
bythe solar rays, of wliich the eartltreceives the greater
part between the tropics, and exliales, probably, at the
poles.-f From this there results a circulation and an
internal process, by means of which the atmosphericair
escapes around our globe asa
sort of transpiration.
Such is an abstract of the theory propounded by M.
Chardel-a theory which appears to completely
borne out, and firmly supported by all the phenomena
of-Nature hitherto discovered andinvestigated, to con--
firm the anticipations of preceding philosophers, and to
'
The electric Buid
breaks bodies in pieces, because matter enters
into its formation; that is to say, something 'of the constituent prin-
ciple of the consktency oi things.
'
1 This is believed to be the cause of the awora borealis, and of the.
accumulation of electricity which is found at the poles. The heat pro-_
duced by the earth in forming its life, that is to say, its vis matrix,
must be greater internally than externally, and this seems to be con-
firmed by observaion; but it does not follou that the planets are ex-
tinct suns, for their nature, their functions, and the relations of the
stars imong themselves, place them in an order so diferent, that hypo-
thesis ought never to have confounded them.
394 APPENDIX, No. nl. -
place, ss it were, the keystone upon the arch of physi-
cal science. It sets out from the simple principle, that
there are just two elements in Nature, matter and motion
-the one having a terrestrial, the other a solar origin;
and by the peculiar combinations of these two elements,
which have an elective allinity towards each other, all
physical phenomena are produced. Light, heat, mag-
netism, eledricity, galvsnism, electro-magnetism; Bw.
result from the combination of the elementary motion
with mutter. The solar rays are the source of the ele-
mentary motion, which, again, confers upon certain
substances their elastic'aud sonorons qualities.
Should any persons be disposed to decline the inves-
tigation of this theory, on the ground that they do not
ind it surrounded by a sumcient number of experi-
ments, it may be observed, that no new experiments
were
necessary, and that it relies for its support 'upon
all those which have been already made. It is only re-
quisite that we
change the mode of investigation-4-that
we descend from the elements to the compounds, in-
stead of attempting, as has been hitherto done, to as-
cend from the compounds tothe elements. It is not
necessary that we should abandon the knowledge al-
ready acquired, but only that we should giye a more
rational direction to the method of investigation, and
then we shall probably soon
perceive, that the ana-
logy which led philosophers to create an elastic Huid,
in order to enable them to explain the phenomena of
A Nnw 'runonv or PHYSICS. 895
light, is the most complete proof that light contains in
itself the principle of elasticity. The question, then,
comes to be, whether the solar rays are the effect or
the cause; and, assuredly, the solution would not be
long doubtful, if we only consulted common sense.
The present method of investigation is opposed to
the order of Nature. To attempt, by destroying her
works, to ascend from the compound to the simple, is
to investigate in an erroneous direction : itis lreginning
at the end, and it werelmnch to at the be-
ginning. In following the old method, the compound
properties, by presenting themselves int to our notice,
take the place of elements, and are employed to ex-
plain the latter when we examine them at a later pe-
riod: and it is thus, that, in order to explain the
nomena of light, philosophers have ended by creating
a chimerical elasticity in an
imaginary Quill, Whilst it
would have been more natural and more easy to inves-
tigate iirst the properties of the solar rays.
After expounding the principles of his new physical
theory, M. Chardel proceeds to explain their applica-
tion to
physiological and psychological science. But
into this branch of his inquiries I do not propose to en-
ter at present; because it appears to me that the prin-
ciple themselves which constitute the foundation of the
whole system, should first be recognised as true, behre
we
attempt to extend them to other departments of
philosophy.
396 APPENDIX, No. lu.
A
I have already observed, that the theory here deve-
loped is remarkably distinguished for its extreme sim-
plicity, as well as for the satisfactory manner in which
it enables us to account for the most important -pheno-
mena of Nature upon one common principle, and with-
out the necessity of having recourse to any subsidiary
hypothesis. The ne day-mr is the gmt dispenser
of light and heat throughout the whole system, is
a fact obvious to our senses and common observation.
We see our'suu continually engaged in darting forth
his
brilliant emanations, communicating light, hm-at, mo-
tion, and animation to all objects within the sphereof
their inilnence; and the same constant motiliy is mani-
festedin theiucessaut sciutillations of the fixed stars,
which apparently preside, as other suns, over other pla-
netary systems. We find that, in proportion as this
luminary recedes, and withdraws his enlivening beams
from the earth,Aall nature droops, and languishes and
dies, or, at least, becomes dormant, and is only resus-
citated after a time, by the iniiuence of his returning
light and heat. »We cannot wonder, therefore, that, in
the infancy of the world, and among nations which
had not been generally illuminated by the superior
lights _of Divine Revelation, this great second cause
should have become the principal object-of religious
worship, and that the devotional gratitude of mankind
should have prompted them to pay the highest adora-
tion to that vast luminous body
"
which looks from his
A NEW THEORY Ola' PHYSICS. 397
sole dominion like the god of this world." The ra-
tional devotee, indeed, was too enlightened to regard
this luminary as the supreme object of his worship; he
considered it only as the visible emblem of that invi-
sible Sun-that Eternal Spirit-which is the sole au-
thor of all material existence, and the sole object of all
intelligent adoration.
'
_
-
"
Let us," says the Hindoo in the Gayatri, or holiest
verse of the Vedas, "_ let us adore the supremacy of
that Divine Sun (opposed to the visible luminary), the
godhead who illuminates all, who recreates all, from
whom all proceed, to whom all must return, whom we
invoke to direct- our understandings aright in our proi
gress towards his' holy seat. What the sun and light
are to this visible world, that are the supreme good and
trut/Ito the intellectual and invisible universe; and, as
our corporoal eyes have a distinct perception of objects
enlightened by the sun, thus our souls acquire certain
knowledge, by meditating on the light of truth which
emanates from the Being of Beings."
We know that organic vigour, and redundancy of
life, increase as the genial warmth augments, from the
poles to the equator. In earthquakes and volcanoes,
which appear to have one common
origin, we
may wit-
ness the tremendous efforts of the elementary motion
which has been absorbed by the earth, to disengage it-_
self from matter. In the thunder and lightning, we
perceive several of the effects of the primary element'
898 arrsznmx, No. ur.
placed in awful aetivity-motion, light, heat, and sound.
The same process efdiseugagementis observed to take
place, in a less fearful de¢ree,and less destnotive form,
intI|easrorab¢rsu|it.mdtheothsses»t1'isphe»omena
which ooour at the poles. V
_y
Philosophers seem now to he almost unanimously of
opinion, that light, heat, magnetism, and eleckieity, are
all the modiied products of one 00l|ll0u principle, and
if they are right in their interpretation of Nature, it
only remains for us to discover what that principle
is. Now, with regard to light and heat, this principle
can hardly admit of a serious question; and in respect
to the others, if we are compelled to attribute them to
the same cause, we cannot do otherwise than refer them
to the indueuee of the mlar rays, modified by their
combination with matter. The whole of the pheno-
mena to which I have alluded, may he produced, an
Kant long ago observed, by friction. Light and heat
escape vrithout intermission from the snn, and are een-
tinually emanating from the earth. They are both avi-
dently evolved hy the compression of fluids, and by
the destruction of the particles of »»nas.»
'
Mr Lyell observes, that "
the heat' and eold which surround the
globe are in a state of constant and universal Hux and redux. The
hsatedaudnriiisdairisalways eqlaterto-
wards the poles in the higherregions of the atmosphere; ull, in the
lower, the colder air is Rowing hack to restore the equilibrium,"-
Geol. vol. i. p. 174. Mr hyell further remarks, that a
corresponding
interchange takes plaeeinthe seas. Den natasinilar imrekgs
A Nnw THEORY or ruvslcs. 399
By concentrating the solar rays, and causing them to
oonverge into a focus, we can produce intense heat,
light, and combustion. By insulating the violet rays
of the solar spectrum, and making them fall upon steel
needles, the latter may be rendered magnetic, as has
been demonstrated by the experimmh of Moriohini,
Mr Christie, and Mrs Somerville. We know that the
needle of the compass does not continue stable dm-ing
the whole length of the day. -In proportion as the sun
becomes elevated in the horinen, the needle advances
towards the west until towards one ticleok in the after-
noon: it then approximates its primitive position until
sunset; and when the sun has set, it continues at rest
until next morning. The extent of these diurnal varia-
tions varies froln day to day, and the variations are much
greater in diferent latitudes; °
and, which is still more
of electricity take place throughout the universe, for the purpose of
maintaining the equilibrium?
The following singular fact was elicited during the examination of
Captain Fitzroy of the Beagle surveying ship, upon s naval court-man
tial lately held at Portamouth.;(Case of the ship Challenger, ISB5.)
He stated, that the late earthquakes on the western coast of South
America have had the extraordinary eiect of transformingwhat was
once a current of two miles an hour to the northward, into a current
of Eve miles an hour to the southward, and that the soundings along
the whole coast have been materially changed.
'
At Paris, in the month of June, the extent of the variations is
fourteen minutes, and in the month of December, only nina. At St
Helena and Sumatra, the diurnal variations are considerably less.
It had been at one time announced that the magnetic needle expe-
rienced no diurnal variations in Russia; but it seemed probable that
400 Arrnunlx, No. ur.
remarkable, the amount of these variations is greater
in summer than in winter, and during the day than in
the night.
The foregoing observations seem to place beyond all
doubt the decided influence of the solar rays in deter-
mining the magnetic phenomena. With regard to elec-
tricity, Sir Humphrey Davy has observed, that "
its
silent and slow operation in the economy of Nature is
much more important than its grand and impressive
operation in lightning and thunder. It may be consi-
dered," he adds, "
not onlyas directly producing an in-
this extraordinary and altogether inexplicable exception was entirely
owing to the imperfection of the instruments employed by the Russian
observers. This conjecture was fully verified by M. Kupfer, as ap-
pears from certain observations communicated to H. Ango in 1826.
M. Kupfer had carefully provided himself with very delicate instru-
ments at Paris, and proceeding to Kasan, on the conines which sepa-
rate Europe from Asia, he established experimentally that the diurnal
variation is not less there than at Paris. The only diiference was, that
under this longitude, the declination being towards the east, whilst in
our climates it is towards the west, the diurnal variation take place
there in a contrary sense from those which are observed at Paris.
M. Kupier not only established at Kasan the existence of the diur-
nal variations in the sense of declination, but thought he even remark-
ed that the magnetic intensity of the earth varied according to the
hours of the day, and also according to the seasons of Exe year. M.
Arago thinks, that, in the present state of our knowledge, we cannot
accord entire conidence to such results. We are still in a state of un-
certainty relative to the diurnal variations which my take place in the
inclination of the needle; and it is only when this last element shall
have been demonstrated in a
rigorous manner, that we shall be able to
form a
judgment on the question which M. Knpfer thought himself
entitled to decide. -
A New 'ruzony 0F_P,-IYSICS. 401
finite variety of changes, but as influencing almost all
which take place: it ,would seem, indeed,Athat chemie
cal attraction itself is only a
peculiar form jof the ex-
hibition of electrical attraction."-Consolat. in Travel,
p. 271. ~
-
'
'
,
'
_
Electricity has been considered as a source of vol-
canic heat. This is probably-a mistake of the effect
for the cause. According to the principles of the theory
I am now illustrating, it would be more philosophical
to consider electricityas the product of a
peculiar com-
bination of heat (theicalorilic rays of the sun) with
matter. ~
-
`
~
'
'
It has now been demonstrated by the discoveries in
Electro-Magnetism, that magnetism and electricity are
always associated, and are probably only different con-
ditions or modifications of the same
power. Soon after
the great discovery of Oersted, it was suggested by M.
Ampere in France, and by Mr Fox in this country,
that all the phenomena of the magnetic needle might
be explained by supposing currents of electricity to cir-
culate constantly 'in the shell of the globe, in directions
parallel to the magnetic equator. Some philosophers
were disposednto ascribe these currents to the chemical
action going on in the superficial parts of the globe to
which air and waterhave the readiest access; while
others, withgreater probability, referred them to ther-
mo-electricity, excited by the action of the solar rays
on the surface of the earth during its. rotation. This
voL. 11. 1. 1
4-02
'
Arrztlmx, tio. un
last hypothesis, indeed, seems to beeorrobot-ated by the
factsllatelystatednehtive to theoofrespondenceof
the diurnal variations of the magaetwith the apparent
motiouoftlnesun; and bythe recent experimentsef
Professor Seebeck, proving that electric eurrenti hay
be produced and maintained in circuits formed exclu-
sively of solid women by the partial sppnesticn ef
heat. ~
Professor Cumming relnarks, that Magnetism, to a
considerable extent, is excited by the unequal distribu-
tion of heat among metallic, and possibly amongst other,
bodies. "
Is it improbable," he asks, "
that the dim'-
nal varidzion of the needle, which follows the oetlrse of
the sua, and therefore seems to depend upon heat, nay
result from the metals, and other substances which
compose the surface of the earth, beiugiunequally heat-
ed, and' consequently suffering a change in their mag-
netic influence P" -Dr Trail] considers "that the dis-
turbance of the equilibrium of temperature of our pla-
net, by the continual action of the snn's rays on its in-
tertropical regions, and of the polar ims, must convert
the earth into a vast thermo-magnetic apparatus ;" and
"
that the disturbance of the equilibrium of tempera-
ture, even in stony strata, may elicit some degree of
magnetism." Mr Christie found that, when diferent
metals had their surfaces symmetrically united through-
out, electric currents were still excited on the applia-
tion of heat, the phenomena corresponding to magnetic
A NEW 'rnromr or Pavsrcs. 403
polarisation in a
particular direction with reference to
the place of greatest heat. Captain Foster'|| observe-
tions at Cape Horn, South Shetland, and the Cape of
Good Hope, shew most decidedly that, in the southern
hemisphere, the diurnal deviations of the will end of
the needle correspond very precisely with these of the
north in the northern hemisphere. Mr Clvrinie con-
cludes that, upon the whole, there can be "
no doubt
that the diurnal variation of the needle is due to elec-
tric currents excited by the heat of the sun."
In another passage, the same gentleman observes,
that, "if electrical currents are excited in the earth in
consequence of its rotation, we must look to some body
exterior to the earth for the inducing cause. The mag-
netic iniuence attributed by Morichini and Mrs Somer-
ville to the violet ray, and the elfect which I found to
be produced on a
magnetised needle when vibrated in
sunshine, and which appeared not to admit of explana-
tion without attributing such iniueuce tothe |un'| rays,
might appear to point to the sun as the inducing body ;"
and he afterwards remarks, that even Mr I-larris's re-
sults, which were different upon a repetition of the
same experiments, may possibly be considered to indi-
cate that the efects observed 'were due solely to cur-Q
rents of air excited by the sun's rays. Captain Foster,
in perfect accordance with the conclusions previously
drawn by Mr Christie from his experiments, considers
that the times of the day when the diurnal changes of
1
404 arm-:N mx, so. ul. _
magnetic inlluence are the greatest and least, point
clearly to the sun as the primary agent in the produc-
tion of them; and that this agency is such as to pro-
duce a constant indection of the pole towards the sun
during the twenty-four hours.
'
"
Upon a review of all the phenomena of terrestrial
magnetism, and considering the intimate relation which
has been established between magnetism and electri-
city, by which it appears that, if not identicah they are
only diferent modifications of the same
principle, there
can be little doubt that they are due to electric currents
circulating round the earth ;" and we have every rea-
son to presume that these currents are
produced by the
ever active influence of the solar rays.
"
It has been
said," continues Mr Christie, "
that, if we refer the
magnetism of the earth to another body, we
only re-
move the dimculty, and gain little by the supposition.
It, however, appears to me, that, if we could shew that
the magnetism of the earth is due to the action of the
sun, independent of its heat-which, however, I think
the more probable cause-the problem would be re-
duced tothe same class as that of accounting for the
light of the sun, the heating and chemical properties of
its rays : we only know the facts, and are not likely to
know motel" ~
'
See Christie's Ropoatmn tio Magnetism ef the Earth, in Report
of the Third Meetivng qfthe British Association for the Advancement
of Science. Loud. 1834.
This fact of the dependence of Magnetism- and Electricity upon the
A New "rusonv or Puvslcss 4405
Lightning is decidedlyan electrical phenomenon; and,
as Dr Roget observes, it has been known, in number-
less instances, to destroy, and sometimes to reverse, the
polarity of the compass; and he adds, that many disas-
trous accidents happening to ships, in consequence of
mistaking their course, may very probably have been
owing to this cause.
'
A ship, in latitude 48°, encount-
ered a violent thunder-storm; the mast was
struclrhy
lightning, which also reversed the poles of all the com-
passes, in the ship. It is stated, that in one of the com.-
passes, the end which had before pointed to the north
now
pointed to the west. In another instance, a stroke
of lightning passed through a box containing knives
and forks, melting some, and scattering the rest about
the mm. ,411 those mf melted mam þÿT8Ild0I'¢llSf7'01¢g ¬V
magnetic. In this last instance, we may clearly per-
ceive the oonnexion between motion, light, heat, elec-
tricity, and magnetism.
The appearance ofthe Aurora borealis is also consi-
dered as a
phenomenon of electricity. Now, this me-
teoric phenomenon lias been frequently observed to be
accompanied by a disturbance in the position of the
compass; and a
delicately suspended magnetic needle
has generally exhibited, upon these occasions, very fre-
inlluence of the solar ray; seems deducihle not only from the researches
of British philosophers, but also from the inquiries, experiments, and
observations of our Continenhl neighbours, as is evident from the re-
cent interesting labours of Alexander von Humboldt, Professor Gauss
of Goottingen, Sac; _ Z ,_
406 APPENDIX, No. ni.
quent oscillations! The following singular instance
of this induence is mentioned by M. Knpfer, whose ob-
servations on the diurnal variations of the magnetic
needle have been already referred to. It appears that,
' "
The magnetic property of the Aurora borealis--or its power of
agitating the magnetic needle_had long been suspected by philoso-
phers; and, though still doubted by some, and not cnnirmed by the
observations of Parry and Foster, eeeme now
snleiently esta-
blished by the observations of Franklin, Lieut. Hoo¢L1nd Dr
Richardson. At present, however, little more than the fact seems to
have been ascertained; o
greatobsenrityetill hangsover are cause
from which this elfect proceeds, and the mode of its operation ; and it
sometimes happens that one observation has a tendency to neutralise
the conclusion to which mother would lead. The Aarons sometimes
approached the senith without producing the usual sfect on the posi-
tion of the needle. It is generally most active where it seems to have
emerged from behind a cloud; and the oscillations appear only to hke
place when beams or
fringes of the meteor are on the same
plane with
the dip of the needle. Captain Franklin was led to consider that the
edect of the Aurora on the needle varied with ill height above the
earth. That it did not depend on the brillianey of the meteor was
manifest from the fact, that, in hazy, cloudy nights, the needle deviated
considerably, though no Aurora was Glen visible ; and he felt unable
to determine whether this proceeded from a concealed Aurora behind
the clouds, er
entirely from the state of the atmosphere. Clouds some-
times during the day shamed the forms of the Aurora, and he was in-
clined to connect with their appearance the deviation of the needle
which was occasionally observed at such times."-Penny Magazine,
21st December 1833.
These observations are~
perfectly eondstent with our hypothesis.
Presuming that the phenomenon of the Aurora is occasioned by the
exhalation of light from the earth in the polar regions, the electrical
induenee would not depend upon the apparent brllliancyof the meteor,
but upon the mmbimeoa of uni light exe. ur. other ermefiu sm.
lations contained in the atmosphere; and, consequently, this induence
would be greater in the lower regions.
'
A N1-:w 'rnzonr or rurslcs. 4~0'7
on the l8th' of November 1825, the magnetic needle
experienced at Kasan unusual and very sensible varia-
tions. The same phenomenon was observed at Paris
on the same day, and at an hom' which corresponded
exactly with that in which it was 'observed by M.
Kapfer, at the eastern extremity of the Russian em-
pire. M. Arago had already noticed this fact in the
Annales de Chimie et de Physique. Other observations
attest the fact that, at the same time, an Aurora borealis
was visible in 'the north of Scotland. Moreover, it is
a
very remarkable fact, that although at present no
Aurora: boreales' are seen at Paris, yet the magnetic
needle there is nevertheless very sensibly deranged by
all those which appear in the polar regions. The ob-
servation of M. Khpfer shews that the inlnenee of the
one which appeared on the 18th of November 1825,
was equally felt at Kazan and at Paris.
From all the facts and observations now brought for-
ward, it appears abundantly evident that the pheno-
mena of light, heat, motion, electricity and magnetism
are intimately connected with each other, and in all
probability have a common origin. Nature compels us
to consider the solar rays as the source of light and
heat; and these must necessarily possess an
original
and inherent motility, in order to permit their elements
to expand. The phenomena of electricity and magne-
tism, we have every reason to believe, are
produced by
the combination of these primary elements with terresi
trial matter.
l
408 Avifnumx, No. nr.
If there exist any serious objections to this hypo-
thesis, I must confess that, at present, I am unable to
perceive them. I think it unqriestionably entitled, at
least, to the candid attention of philosophers, because,
whether we consider its extreme simplicity," its confor-
mity to nature, or its capability of affording an
adequate
and satisfactory explanation of the most important phe-
nomena of the universe upon one common principle, it
must certainly be allowed that it possesses a decided
superiority over any other_ of a more complicated
structure, which is not only forced and insnilicient, but
can
only maintain itself by the feeble, unsatisfactory,
and ephemeral support of a variety of subsidiary and
still more gratuitous assumptions. I trust,j therefore,
that the subject will be minutely and impartially exa-
mined by others more conversant with physical inqni~
ries, and, consequently, more competent the investi-
gation ; and who, at the same time,~feel an equal inte-
rest in the discovery and dissemination of scientific
ttlltll. f
'
'
»(4°9)
r'
'
No. IV.
LITERATURE
>1-il_
IN addition to the opinions ineidentnlly expressecl by
many learned and eminent men, in favour of the rea-
lity of the action and of on plxenomenn of Animal
Magnetism-some of which have been notieed in
work-1' snlgioino list, for th; meat of the mam,
of works written exclusiiely upon the subject.
Mnsnmn, Mémoire sur la. deoouverte du Magnetisme
Animal. rms, 1779.-Précis nimfiqtie de faits rela-
tifs au Magnétisme Animal, &c. Londres, 1781.-
Mémoine snr ses deoouvertes. Paris, an vii.
D'l%1.oN, Observations surle Magnetisme
rms, 1780;--Lettre A M. Pmlip, sm. La Haye,
1782.
'
Bmmuésn, Lettre d'un Medecin de la Faculté de
Paris A un Medecin du College de Londres, &c. La
Hays, 1781.
~
~
voL. II. M m
410
I
APPENDIX, No. lv.
Comm' DE GEBELIN, Lettre 'de l'antenr dn Monde
Primitif a MM. ses Souscriptenrs. Paris, 1783.
CAULLET ns: V1=z.wraonn1., Aphorismes de Mesmer.
Paris, 1784.
Mesmer jnstiiié. 1784.
L'Antimagnetisme, &c. Londres, 1784.
_
THOURET, Recherches et doutes snr le Magnetisme
Animal. Paris, 1784.
Rapport des Commissaires de la Fncnlté de Medecine
et de 1'Academie des Sciences, &c. Par M. Bailly.
Paris, 1784. '
_
Rapport des Commissaires de la Societé Royale de
Medecine, &c. Paris, 1784.
Rapport de 1'nn des Commissaires (M. de Jussien).
Paris, 1784.
Rapport secret snr le Mesmerisme, &c. This Report
was not published by the Commissioners themselves,
but it will be found in the Comervahur, vol. i.
Observations sur les deux rapports, &c. Par M.
d`Eslon. 1784.
GALARD nl-1 MoN1'JoYE, Lettre snr le Magnetisme
Animal, &c. Paris, 1784.
Doutes d'nn provincial, &c. 1784.
J. Bommr-'o1, Analyse raisonnée des rapports des
Commissaires, &c. Lyon, 1784.
U
Reilexions impartiales snr le Magnetisme Animal,
&c. 1784.
Observations adressées A MM. les Commissaires,
&c. 1784.
'
LITERATURE. 411
Supplement aux deux rapports, &c. 1784.
Bmaoassa, Considerations sur le Magnetisme Ani-
mal. La Haye, 1784.
Le Colosse aux
pieds d'ax-gile. Par M. Devillers.
1784. _
Traité theorique et pratiquc du Magneti me Animal.
Par M. Doppet. 1784.
Extrait do la correspondance de la Societé Royale de
Medecine relativement au Magnetisme Animal. ~
Par
M. Thouret. 1785.
Lettre A M. Thouret, pour serrir de refntation, &c.
Par M. de la Boissiere. 1785.
Examen du compte rendu par M.
Thouret, &c. Par
J. Bonnefoy. 1785.
Lettre de M. d'Fslon a Messieurs les auteuts du
Journal de Paris, &c. 1785. This letter was refused
insertion in the journal to which it was addressed. -
Rapport au
public de quelques abus en Medecine,
&c. Par M. L. F. Thomas d'0nglée, &c. 1785.
Mémoire pour M. Charles-Louis Varnier, Docteur
Regent de la Faculté de Medecine de Paris, et Membre
de la Societé Royale de Medecine, &c. 1785. Varnier
was one of those doctors who were
expelled from the
Faculty of Medicine, in consequence of his adherence
to Animal Magnetism. He was a man of talent, and
of a noble character. The Memoir, or Case, is exceed-
ingly curious. A
Examen serienx et impartial dn Magnetisme Animal.
Paris, 1784.
412 arrnumx, No. xv.
lksai sur les probdbilités du Somnambnlisme Mag-
netique, par M. Fournel. 1785. _
Prooédés dn Magnetisme Animal. 1785.
_
Systems raisonné du Maguetisme universal, &c. -Par
la Societé de l'Harmonie d'0stende. 1786.
Du iluide universal, &c. Paris, 1805.
-
Prospectus d'un nouveau countlneorique et pratiqne
da Magnetisme Animal, &c. Par M. .Wur%z, Docteur
on Medeoine,&e. #S¢|.'3h0`|ll'g,|.¥87»'§~. .. ,l
Le Magnetiaeur amoureux ; par M. V. (Charles
Villers) .
Geneve, 1787. .
e
'
=
Considerations sur
Podgine, la cause etlel efeta .de
la lievre, &c. _Par M. Jualel, Docteur- en Medeclue, &c.
Paris, 1808. _
'
_
u
_
'
De_la Nature de l'Homme, &c. Par M. P. J. .Bache-
lier d'Agés. PariS,_an VIII. _»
"
.<
».
Appel an public sur le Magnetisme &c.
1787. . _
a
-
.
. 1
Lettre de M. le C., C. D. P. (le Comte Chastenet de
Puysegur) A M..le P. E. D. S. 1788. ~
Detail dercures opérées A Busamcy, &c. 1784.
Rapport des' cures opérées A Baionne Spar le Magne-
tilme Animal, &c. Par M. le Comte Maximo do Puy-
segnr. 1784. f
A- ~
. '
`
Reeueil d'observations et de faits relatifh au M0-Elle.
tismefAnimal, &c.. Par la Societéde Guienne. -Paris,
1785. .
.
'
_
Nouvelles cures opéfrées par le Magnetisme Animal.
1784. , A
-
' =-`
LITERATURE. 4.13
Detaildes cures opérées A Lyon par le Magnetisme
Animal, &c. Par M. Orelnt. Lyon, 1784. ~
Lettre de M." V. de la. Boissiere, Medecin A Berge-
rac 5. M. Thonret, &c. 1785.
' ~~ ~
Du Magnetisme Animal et de ses partisans, par M.
de Montegre, &c. Paris, 1812. - -
~
'
~
TARDY DE MONTRAVEL, Essai sur la tlleorie dn Som-
nambnlisme Magnetique. 1785.-Lettres pour servin-
'desnite 5 cette essai. 1787.-Journal 'dn traitement
magnetiqne de Mademoiselle N.-Journal dn traite-
ment magnetiqne de Madame B.
Journal magnetiqne dn traitement de Mademoiselle
D., et de Madame N. Par M. C. de Lyon. 1789.
Extrait du journal d'une cure magnetique, traduit de
l`Alleml1nd. Rasfmilt, 1787. _
Annales de la Societé harmoniqne des amis réunis de
Strasbourg, &c. .1789.
'
Extrait-des journeanx d'nn magnetisenr attaché A la
Societe des amis rénnis de Strasbourg. 1786. ~~
.
Nouveanx extraitsdes jonrneanx d'nn magnetisenr,
8¢c. 1788. _
' `
`
_
f
M. DE Puvssaun, Mémoires pour servir` 5. Phistoire
du Magrnetisme Animal, &c. 2d Edition. 1809.-Du
Magnetisme Animal,&c. 2d Edit. 1809.--Reelxerclxes,
experiences et observations physiologiques sur l'homine
dans l'etat de»Somnambulisme, &c., Paris, 1811. » .
'Di-znnuzn, Histoire critique du Magnetisme Animal,
&c. Paris, 1818.-Defense du Magnetisme Animal,
aw. Paris, 1819. -
=
;
'
A
4.14 APPENDIX, No. xv.
M. Fmnssslnn, Quelques fait: et considerations pour
servir A Fhistoire dn Magnetisme Animal.
DUPo'rE'r, Experiences pnbliqnes faites is l'Hotel-
Dieu en 1820.
M. P. Folsssc, Rapports at Discussions de l'Acade-
mie Royale de Medecine sur le Magnetisme Animal,
&c. Paris, 1833.
Lnomuua (Docteur), Magnctisme; son I-listoire, sa
Theorie, son Application an traitement des Maladies,
8zc. Paris, 1884.
W1nNno1.'r, Beitrag zu den Erfahmngen iiber den
Thierischen Magnetismns. Hamb. 1787.-Heilkraft
des Thierischen Magnetismus, &c. 1802-3.
`
E. GMELIN, Ueber den Thierischen Magnetismus, &c.
Tiibingen, 1787.-None Untersuchnngen iiber den
Thierischen Magnetismns. 1789.-Materialien Hin- die
Anthropologie. 1791-1793. A
C. W. HUFELAND, Gemeinniitzige Anfssitze.
C. L. Tnzvmsuus, Versuch die haupsichlichsten
Plliinomene des Thierischen Magnetismns zu erkliren.
Gottingen, 1803.
J. Hmm-:cxEN, Ideen und Beobachtungen den Thier-
ischen Mag-netismus, &c. betreffend. Bremen, 1800.
B5CKMA.NN, Archiv fnr Magnetismns und Somnam-
bulismus. Straslr. 1787.
LITERATURE. 415
C. A. F. KLUGE, Versuch einer Darstellung des Ani-
malischen Magnetismus, 8zc. Berlin, 1815.
J. D. Bnasms, Ueber psychische Heilmittel und
Magnetismus. Kopenh. 1818.
J. ENNEMOSER, Der Magnetismus, Sze. Leipzic, 1819.
J. R. L1cn'rENs'rAED'r, Erfahrungen in dem Gebiete
des Lebens-Magnetismus. Berlin, 1819.
STIEGLITZ, Ideen iiber den Thierischen Magnetismus.
J. C. L. ZIEBMANN, Stieglitz's Ideen iiber den Thier-
ischen Magnetismus beleuchtet. Hannover, l820.--
Geschichtliche Darstelluug des Thierischen Magnetis-
mus, &c. Berlin, 1824. ~
J. C. PASSAVANT, Untersuchungen iiber den Lebens-
Magnetismus und das Hellsehen. Frankf. a M. 1821.
D. G. Kmslzm, System des Tellurismus oder Thier-
ischen Magnetismus. 2 vols. 8vo. Leipz. 1822.
P. J. HENSLER, Ueber die versehiedenen Arten des
Thierischen Magnetismus, &c. Wiirzburg, 1833.
J. F. Smmsns, Erfahrungen iiber den Lebens-Mag-
netismus und Somnambulismus. Hamb. 1835.
The above are but a few of the numerous works which
have been published on the Continent, on the subject
of Animal Magnetism; and I request it may be noted,
that they have all been written by gentlemen of edu-
