{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__younghusband___modern_mystics.pdf","mytitle":"Modern Mystics","mylang":"de"}
MODERN MYSTICS
BY
SIR FRANCIS YOU N G H U SBAN D
K.C.S.I., K.C.I.E.
LONDON
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.
C O N T E N T S
CHAP.
perienoe—determines to be the love in the heart of the
Church—and live the “ little w ay” — she dies when only
24— and only 25 years later is canonized.
IV A Protestant Mystic : The authoress of The Golden
An anonymous writer—with no specially religious upbring­
ing—married to an English officer— great capacity for
suffering as well as for love— “ signs and moans ” for God
— has vision of Christ—suffers intensely through absence
of her husband at the Great War— prays to God and has
overpowering spiritual experiences— desires to tell everyone
but shrinks from telling anyone— publishes anonymously
and has recently died.
V Mass Mysticism : The Welsh Revival, 1904-5
Evan Roberts the leading figure— first a miner, then a
blacksmith—religious bringing up and religious disposition—
“ taken up into divine fellowship ” — prepares for the Ministry
— but is so moved at a Revival meeting that he starts a
Revival in his own town—the Revival spreads— other
denominations join—its fame spreads—greatly influenced
by singing—tremendous spiritual experiences— permanent
effect upon men’s lives.
VI Re v i e w .....................................................................
Resemblances and differences of mystics—all suffer—all
experience radiant joy—all have adamantine certitude of
goodness of the universe— but differ in type of experience
and ways of communicating it— modern view of inter­
dependence of things would expand mystic’s outlook—
possible existence of Master Mystic of the Universe—
Mystics as forerunners of a higher race— guidance by Spirit,
but responsibility of each individual— value of marriage-
love— evil overoome by good— a Dominating Person Power.
VII Co n c l u s i o n ...........................................................
The practical use of the mystical experience— training for
it lacking in our educational system— suggestions for such
training— practice of meditation—the climax—a Master
Mystic on this planet— summing up.
In d e x ............................................................................................
vi
PAGE
178
214
247
282
315
B Y T B S SA M E AUTHOR
THE LIVING UNIVERSE.
THE REIGN OF GOD.
DAWN IN INDIA. British Purpose and Indian
Aspiration.
THE GLEAM.
WONDERS OF THE HIMALAYA.
BUT IN OUR LIVES. A Romance of the Indian
Frontier.
THE COMING COUNTRY. A Pre-Vision.
LIFE IN THE STARS. An Exposition of the View
that on Some Planets of Some Stars Exist Beings
Higher than Ourselves, and on one a World-Leader,
the Supreme Embodiment of the Eternal Spirit which
Animates the Whole.
PREFACE
I
N my Living Universe I expressed my agree­
ment with Bergson that the great mystics gave
us an indication of the direction in which the
human race would evolve. But, in spite of the works
of Miss Evelyn Underhill and Dr. Inge, mystics are
still suspect and mysticism is confused with misti­
ness. So to make clearer what I mean by mystics
and the mystical experience I have in the present
book taken examples of mystics of the present times
about whose lives we have ample information. All,
except one, have lived in my own lifetim e; and
besides reading about them in books I have been
able to inquire about them personally from those
who knew them. So we are able to get into closer
touch with them than we can with the mystics of
long past and see how the mystical experience came
to them, what it was like and what effect it had
upon their lives. And I have drawn examples from
the East as well as from the West in order to show
how widespread is this mystical experience.
Lastly, I have tried to show how naturally the
mystical experience fits into that view of the uni­
verse which science and philosophy are now coming
to hold, namely, that it is a coherent whole of diverse
parts interdependent upon each other and manifesting
the existence of a Personality energizing, controlling,
and directing all.
vii
P R E F A C E
I have drawn most copiously from the biographies
of these mystics, repeating their very words, or the
words of the biographers who have known them, in
order to make their experiences as vivid and the
record of them as exact as possible. I, therefore,
express my very special indebtedness to the authors
of the following books : The Life of Keshub Chander
Sen, by P. Mazoomdar ; The Life of Sri Ramakrishna,
published by Advaita Ashrama ; The Dawn Breakers,
by Shoghi Effendi ; Saint Thérèse of Lisieux, trans­
lated by Rev. Thomas N. Taylor, published by Burns,
Oates & Washboume ; The Life of Evan Roberts, by
Rev. D. M. Phillips.
F. E. Y.
February, 1935.
vm
INTRODUCTION
A
CTIVITY unceasing is what we everywhere
see when we look out around us. And the
same when we think of ourselves. Even in
our sleep it ceases n o t: our hearts continue to beat, our
blood flows, our lungs breathe, our stomach digests, our
brains still work. Wherever and whenever we look it
is the same. Always and everywhere there is activity.
And how universally prevalent it is, both in time and
in space, and how intense only science can tell.
Even solid rocks are theatres of intensest activity.
They, the mountains, the seas, the stars are built up
of ultimate particles of matter which are not hard
bits of material but simply centres of energy, centres
of activity, radiating out influence in every direction.
Activity is universal in time and in space—in every
tiniest part and in that great whole which comprises
stars as numerous as the grains of sand upon the
seashore. Space itself is active. It is perpetftally
vibrating.
But this unceasing activity is not chaotic: it is
controlled and directed. The sun is the scene of the
fiercest activity; but it is round. So also is the
Earth. And the plants and animals which have
sprung from the Earth and which are conglomerations
of innumerable groups of atoms are held together in
definite forms and patterns—in patterns of molecules,
crystals, amoebae, jelly-fishes, fishes, birds, animals,
1
I NTRODUCTI ON
trees, flowers, men. The orderliness and intelligi­
bility of Nature is recognized by all scientific men.
It is the basic faith upon which they pursue their
laborious investigations.
And each of these forms— each man, animal, plant,
rock, mountain, planet, sun, star, as well as every
minutest particle of which each of these is composed,
is connected with every other part and therefore with
the whole, and affects and is affected by every other
part, so that a pin-drop sends a tremor through the
universe. Everywhere there is interconnection, inter­
relation and interdependence. Isolation is unknown
and impossible. And so connected are we ourselves
with our surroundings—surroundings which include
the whole universe—that it is hard to see where our
bodies end and the environment begins. Apart from
breathing our bodies are continually radiating out
rays and being bombarded by them, and at the rate
of millions a second. A man’s body is not clear c u t:
its influence extends to the confines of the universe
just as it is affected by the whole universe.
Progressiveness is also observable. There is evolu­
tion. What we see to-day is found to be gradually
derived from what went before. The activity is a
creative activity. It is a process. It looks as if
behind it there were some Power with an aim in view,
ordering all this activity and directing it towards
some end. And what we are irresistibly drawn to
inquire into is what is the nature of that Power and
what is it driving at.
In this creative process we ourselves are so im­
mersed and so irresistibly borne along in its mighty
impetus that we appear to have little control over
our destiny. We seem to have nothing to do in the
matter. We had no say about our birth. We could
2
INTRODUCTI ON
not choose our parents. And having been bom,
neither they nor we can stay or accelerate our growth«
Our parents might like to keep us dear little children.
We ourselves might like to jump into real grown-up
manhood. Neither they nor we can add a cubit to
our stature. We grow up in spite of ourselves.
And sooner or later we are bound to die. Do what
we may we cannot live as long as an oak. We cannot
even sleep when we want to, or keep awake when we
want, or remain without food for more than a month.
In many most important ways we have hardly any
control over ourselves but are carried impotently
along in the whole creative process proceeding all
about us. We are involved in a universe, which is
dynamically developing about us. We cannot get
away from it. It is constantly affecting us, as we
see if we think only of the weather. And we have
to be continually making the most delicate and vary­
ing and often very complex adjustments to that
mighty whole which originally brought us into being
and with which we are indissolubly connected for all
the days of our life.
Not only that, we are bom with certain insistent
appetites which we are compelled to satisfy on pain
of death or of acutest suffering. The desire to live
is imperative within us and hardly less domineering
the desire to reproduce ourselves. So we have to
exert ourselves to obtain and eat food— and the
right food—or we shall die. And we have to seek a
mate or suffer lifelong pangs of desire.
Our destiny seems settled for us from the time of
our birth. And all that seems to be left to us is to
let the wheels go round. Yet, with all our apparent
impotence we are far from being mere automatic
machines. The fact that we grow and reproduce
3
I NTRODUCTI ON
ourselves differentiates us from a machine. Far
more important is the fact that we do have some
power of choice. We do have some say, while a
machine has none. Swept along as we may be in the
great creative process we can choose what we shall
eat and drink and who shall be our mate. And by
choosing the right food and eating the right amount
of it, and by choosing the right mate we may satisfy
our inborn appetites and because of that satisfaction
experience pleasure, or by choosing the wrong food
or the wrong mate fail to satisfy those appetites and
suffer pain. And by thus experiencing either pleasure
or pain we are again widely differentiated from a
machine.
Then besides these bodily desires and the power of
satisfying them we are also bom with certain spiritual
cravings which no less need satisfaction. The chief
is companionship. No man could live by himself
without even the companionship of an animal. And
when he craves for a mate it is not only, or chiefly,
for bodily satisfaction. Much more is it for com­
panionship. And inside the longing for companion­
ship is a deeper craving to make that companionship
as perfect as possible—to make it the most perfect
love.
All this increases our craving to know what and
what like is the driving power of the creative process,
and what it is driving at.
Now some men are exceedingly sensitive to its
operation. There are highly impressionable persons
peculiarly receptive of impressions from the creative
process proceeding all around them. And some of
these highly susceptible persons are finely discrimina­
tive of these impressions—which they shall receive
and absorb and which they shall reject. And a few
4
I NT RODUCT I ON
exceedingly rare persons are not only impressionable
and discriminative, but expressive also. They are
thus able to communicate to others the most valuable
of the impressions they have received from the
operating of the creative process ; and we thus have
the means of judging something of its essential nature
and what it is proceeding to create.
From time to time in different countries there
appear men and women who have experience in rare
moments of a more exalted state of living than we
know of in the common everyday life of our time.
Such persons are not necessarily better, or more
heroic, or more saintly than many of their fellows
who have never been favoured with such an expe­
rience, though they are always men and women who
undoubtedly have set their affections on things above,
on the higher things of the spirit, and have striven
and suffered and sacrificed in order to attain their
goal. But they have had the good fortune, through
some happy combination of circumstances, to have
been caught up in a rapture and to have experienced
in a supreme moment a mode of living intenser, more
joyous, more assured, and far more vivid than
ordinary life. Their experience has been to them so
sacred that they have recoiled from speaking of it to
a single other soul. And, even if they would, they
fear that to put it into words would be at once to
lose its precious fragrance. Yet, with all their hesita­
tion they would long to proclaim their discovery to
all the world, that others may share it with them.
The persons who have enjoyed this experience are
usually known as mystics. The experience itself is
known as the mystical experience. The state of life
which is experienced is called the mystical state.
The Hindus call this experience Samadhi. It is a
5
I N T RO D UC T I ON
well-recognized condition among them, though any­
one who has attained to it feels it too sacred a matter
to speak of except perhaps to a few fellow-seekers
after the higher things of the spirit.
Among Moslems those who have this experience
are known as Sufis, though as a rule no Moslem who
had enjoyed it would call himself a Sufi. With the
same religious reserve as characterizes all true mystics
he would not refer to it even among his friends.
These mystics and the state of being of which they
have experience we will now examine because they
have had experience of direct correspondence with
the Power behind the Creative Activity—with the
Spirit of the Universe—with God. They reveal to us
the conditions of that higher mode of life into which
the human race is evolving. Their experience is the
peak experience of the race, and a pointer of the
direction in which it is developing. Their conscious­
ness has reached a higher pitch of awareness of the
world about them than ordinary men attain. What
they have to tell is therefore specially worth hearing.
And in this present work examples will be chosen
from among mystics who have lived in the present,
or quite recent times, because we have ample means
of knowing the conditions under which the experience
came to them, and because present are more stimu­
lating than ancient examples.
But in the examples which will now be given of the
mystical experience emotionalism to a degree unbe­
lievable by those who have never witnessed it will be
described; and to many readers this may be highly
distasteful. And it may be admitted that even the
friends of some of these mystics thought them mad.
Yet there is the fact that they have since profoundly
R
I NT RODUCT I ON
influenced men. And when identical experiences
have come to such different persons living in such
different circumstances as a Moslem merchant in
Persia, a Hindu villager in India, a Roman Catholic
nun in France and a Baptist miner in Wales, we
should be disposed to take it seriously. And dis­
tasteful as this extreme emotionalism may be to many,
perhaps these will reflect that it is only through strong
emotion that the deep things in life are reached and
that it was due to strong emotion in their parents
that they themselves came into being. If their
parents had been cold, unswayed by emotion they
themselves would not now be in existence.
Further, it will be found that it was through these
tremendous emotional experiences and as a resultant
of their purging and purifying effects that the mystics
were able to reach that abiding serenity which can
only come from complete spiritual satisfaction—from
the satisfaction of the whole self and the deepest
foundation of the self.
There should indeed be no objection to strong
emotion in itself. Intensity of emotion in a man is
only the counterpart of intensity of activity in every
ultimate particle of matter. And it is eminently
desirable that we should be capable of the utmost
strength of feeling. No love of beauty or love of a
mother for her child could ever be felt with too deep
an intensity.
The fact that the mystical state is a highly emotional
state must therefore be accepted. Nevertheless, that
fact makes it all the more necessary to examine and
test it in the light of pure reason if we are to learn
from it. Mystics themselves would also profit by
such examination. Their experience will be all the
more profitable to them if it is purified by under-
7
I NTRODUCTI ON
standing. They have convictions—and indeed in­
vincible convictions—but they would have more
weight with others if they were reasoned convictions.
Reason alone and wisdom alone would never have
produced these experiences or brought such certitude
any more than reason or the very highest wisdom
alone could have put the young man in love with the
maiden, or the patriot in love with his country.
These things lie above the domain of reason. Never­
theless, after the experience has been experienced it
may be interpreted, tested and sifted in the light of
reason, so that it may be properly understood and its
true value be appraised. Though reason may never
be able to give that experience, yet that experience
must be fitted into a reasonable view of the universe.
Or perhaps it would be truer to say that the experience
and the reasonable view of the universe must be
fitted into one another.
Now when mystical experiences are examined in
the dry light of every day they may very easily be
brushed aside as unimportant or even as harmful.
The passionless scientist might dispose of them as
mere hysteria, hallucinations, pathological symptoms
of no validity or worth whatever. This is perfectly
possible, and in fact has been done. And it may be
admitted that there are cases which resemble but
are not the true mystical experiences which might
be so condemned. But the higher mysticism,1 the
real mystical experience, cannot be so airily disposed
of. It is scarcely probable that men of great intellect
like St. Thomas Aquinas in ancient times and Father
Poulain and Dean Inge in the present day would have
devoted so much intellectual energy to its interpre­
tation if in their opinion it had not possessed real
worth. Nor would the keen minds of India, Persia
8
I NTRODUCTI ON
and Arabia during long centuries have discussed its
manifestation among Hindus and Moslems, and
devised systems and codes and rules of life by which
others might acquire it, if they had not regarded it
as a supremely valuable experience. And if some
psychologists disparage the mystical experience there
are others of the highest eminence who regard it as
normal and healthy and who note this much in
favour of the mystic that he is the better and not
the worse for his experience. A drunkard certainly
delights while he is drunk. But the next morning is
the worse, not the better for it. So also is the person
with an hallucination. The mystic, on the contrary,
finds his whole being saturated with the joy he has
felt. It has become a lasting possession to him.
And it alters his whole attitude to life. The mystical
experience has stood the test of centuries of criticism
and opposition among Hindus, Christians, and Mos­
lems in every country; and if it is still valued to-day
by men of acknowledged sense it may fairly be pre­
sumed that there is something in it worth serious
consideration.
As to the objection which has been made to the
mystical experience that it is purely subjective—a
mere excogitation of the person’s own self—it may
be replied that no mental state whatever is purely
subjective. Every mental state is produced by out­
side stimulus as well as by internal urge. The
external and the internal go together—the internal
responding to the external. For every man exists in
relation to his fellows and to the whole universe. No
man, no living thing, no stone or speck of dust is
isolated. All are bound up in one whole, as integral
parts of that whole. All are necessary to that whole.
And all are affected by that whole. That whole
9 b
I NT RO D UC T I ON
being, of course, the whole universe. Not this
Earth alone, or the solar system alone. But that
totality of things, the entire universe. The mystic,
like everyone else, is thus a working part of the
universe as a whole. He is in relationship with the
whole universe. The mystic’s state must therefore
be due not only to what is going on within himself
but also— and perhaps chiefly—to the impacts on
him of influences from outside. The mystical expe­
rience is never entirely subjective: it is always
objective as well. It is subjective-objective.
And the “ outside ” to whose influences mystics,
like the rest of us, are exposed, is the whole universe
— nothing less. When we are testing their expe­
riences in the light of reason and of accumulated
scientific knowledge we have to see how they fit in
with as reasonable a view of the universe as science
and philosophy combined can afford. So it is impor­
tant to consider them from the point of view of the
universe and not from a merely terrestrial standpoint.
For it may have been from the universe as a whole
that came the stimulus which gave rise to these
experiences. Mystics, in any case, are very sensitive
and receptive of soul. And what elevated them to
the exalted state they experienced may have been
something impressing itself upon them from the
universe at large—from the universe and not from
the solar system alone.
The most primitive people sense a Mysterious
Power at work in the world about them. They have
odd ideas as to the nature and mode of operation of
that Power. But this impression on their minds
cannot be brushed aside as nothing but superstition.
Some superstition there may be. But there may be
more truth at the core than eooped-in townsmen
10
I N T B O DU C T I O N
may think. These primitive folk’s close and con­
stant communion with their fellow-men, with animals,
with plant-life, and with physical nature may have
enabled them to sense something at the heart of
things which the more sophisticated townsman may
have missed. They may not have been able to form
a clear intellectual conception of that which they
sensed. But they may have reached nearer the
truth when they believed it to be a living Power
than the sceptic reaches who can see nothing but
chance behind the happenings in this world or than
the man who sees the world as a machine and nothing
more.
Proceeding then on the assumption that this planet
is an integral part of and organic to the universe as a
whole, and that unceasingly raining in upon it are
living influences from the universe outside it, we will
in this present work study the experiences of those
living beings on this planet who, by the delicate
sensitivity of their nature, are most susceptible to
these impressions. We would assume that those
impressions, while they may come proximately from
living beings in this planet and perhaps other parts of
the universe, derive ultimately from the Central Power
of the universe—much as the impressions which the
cells in my brain give to the muscles of my toe derive
ultimately from me. And we would assume further
that these impressions would be transmitted from one
part to anotherin the sameway as the impressions from
a living being in Broadcasting House are transmitted
all over the world. Then by studying the impres­
sions which these most susceptible persons receive
we would try to form some conception of the essential
characteristics, not only of that Mysterious Power
which must be behind the whole evolutionary process
11
I NT RO D UC T I ON
and therefore also of what It is driving at— of that
higher mode of life, or state of being, into which man
must be gradually developing and for which he is
being slowly fitted.
And this should be valuable. For science tells us
that life on this Earth may last for many millions of
years yet, and presumably develop. In round figures
it has existed on this planet for about a thousand
million years and in all probability it will last for
another hundred thousand million years. But out
of the thousand million years during which life has
existed on this planet man has existed for only about
one million years—for only one out of the thousand.
He is a very recent product. He is only in his baby­
hood. He may develop into something beyond our
utmost imaginings. Yet just as we can trace in the
simplest form of life faint inklings of ourselves, for
example a tiny power to choose what it will absorb,
what it will reject, what it will respond to, what it
will repel, so may the most developed of ourselves
have in us delicate indications of those beings into
which man may develop a thousand million years
hence.
And we may be aided in making our forecast by
considering the stages through which animal life has
gone in arriving at the human stage. During the
course of development upward from amoeba to man
there have been certain very definite steps taken.
One particularly we will dwell upon: the step from
the water on to land. During by far the greater
period of life-development living beings were found
only in the water. None— either plant or animal—
existed on the land. The land was bare and unin­
habited. Then, gradually, there emerged from the
waters living things who adapted themselves to life
12
I NTRODUCTI ON
on land in the air and the sunshine. They had
entered upon a new state of being. In the waters
the sunshine penetrated but dimly, and they could
see only a short distance around them. The stars
and any life in the starry realm would be unsuspected.
Now a prodigious change would have taken place.
They must have suffered much from the dry air,
from the alternating heat of the noonday sun in
summer and chill of the night hours in winter. But
as they acclimatized themselves to the new con­
ditions they found themselves entering upon a wider,
fuller, intenser state of being. The sunshine entered
their souls. Instead of being cold and fish-like they
became warm-blooded. Their eyesight developed till
it pierced to farthest horizons. And their hearing
developed as their eyesight. To the very varying
conditions of their surroundings they adapted them­
selves in an equal variety of ways. Consequently,
the rate of their development rapidly increased. In
the last hundred million years they accomplished
more than they had in the whole of the previous nine
hundred million years. Life became infinitely more
vivid and intense.
A like change is now before the human race. As
living things came out of the water on to land so are
they now coming out of planetary life into universal
life. They are emerging into the air and sunshine
of the universe as a whole. They will not go about
the universe in the body. They will live the life of
the universe on the wings of the soul. But they will
embody and manifest in ever higher and completer
degree that Central Living Power of the universe of
which we ourselves are just faintly becoming aware.
It is into this higher state of being that a few of
the more finely developed human beings are delicately
13
I NTRODUCTI ON
feeling their way—throwing out tentacles, reaching
upward, scarcely able to endure the higher conditions
yet irresistibly attracted to them. These are the
great poets, the great musicians, the great thinkers,
and most especially the men of sensitive intuition
who divine their way ahead, the great religious
leaders, the great mystics. All these in their most
exalted moments have caught glimpses of a higher
and far more beautiful state of existence which we
Christians have been taught to speak of as the
Kingdom of Heaven, and which may be experienced
in some measure even here and now. For, though
beings more fitted to experience and endure it will
doubtless develop in the future, yet that higher state
is all about us at this moment—as the sunshine and
air of land life was always there for those livers in
the waters to enjoy if only they had the enterprise
and the organs to avail themselves of it.
We may suppose then that mystics, in the great
moments when they are enjoying the mystical expe­
rience, are being to a special degree acted upon by
the Central Power of the universe which is both in
them and around, beneath and above them. Under
the pressure of the creative urge within them and
stirred to a glowing fervency of activity by the
spiritual impact from without—under the pressure of
the Creative Spirit within them acted upon by the
same Creative Spirit around and above them, they
have burst forth into a new kind of life.
They may be taken as resembling fledglings begin­
ning to fly. So far the young birds have not ventured
out into the wide world which surrounds their nest.
Their wings are not strong enough to support them.
Then comes a day when their wings have developed
and when they are driven by a deep instinctive urge
14
I NTRO D UC T I ON
within them and are called by their mother and the
air and sunshine without them to make the critical
plunge, trust to their unused wings and fare forth
into the unknown. A fearful venture of faith it
must be to the young swallow. But once it is made
he skims through the air and soon is rising and
falling, turning and twisting in a rhapsody of joy in
the new world he has found. So also, I suggest, is
it with the mystic who has found the wings of his
soul.
A more likely resemblance may be to a butterfly.
The caterpillar tied to the ground crawling slowly
and laboriously along is a thing of no great beauty
and leads a dull, uninteresting life nibbling at leaves.
But after a period something working -within it
produces a wonderful change. It is slowly trans­
formed into a chrysalis. Inside the chrysalis the
transforming process continues. And then as the
outside warmth and light acts upon the chrysalis the
transformed creature inside it gnaws through the
outer covering and emerges as a resplendent butterfly
with gorgeous colouring, soon ready to fly where it
will through the air and feeding itself by sipping
nectar from the flowers.
The new being that the caterpillar had become
and the new life it found as a butterfly are typical
of the mystic. And just as the same world was all
the time round the caterpillar as was round the
butterfly— only the butterfly could avail itself of it
while the caterpillar could not—so does the mystic
discover and live in a world which is yet all the time
about us ordinary men.
And recognizing that this may be so have we
in our ordinary experience of life anything which
will help us to form an idea of what the extra-
15
INTRODUCTI ON
ordinary experience of the mystics is like ? I think
we have.
The full glory of the new condition of life can be
known only to the greatest mystics—and perhaps
even to them only in part. Yet we ordinary men and
women may have had just a glimpse of it in those
high moments in our lives when we have been in
love. The young man and maiden in the highest
transports of their love for each other have felt them­
selves wafted up to a world of beauty far above the
ordinary world. What they experienced then they
do not speak of. And no one is rude enough to
inquire. It is recognized by them and by others as
too sacred for speech. And even the finest literature,
the most delicate poetry, the most entrancing music
has not been able to convey any real impression of
what they have experienced in the deepest recesses
of their being at the culminating moment of their
love. But what they then knew they knew as prob­
ably the greatest experience in their lives and as
more truly real than anything else. And this it is
which may give the many who have known it some
inkling of what the mystical experience is.
And this is the more likely because what lovers
feel is all part of, and in direct line with, the great
creative urge of the world. Besides being felt—and
felt with tremendous intensity and from the founda­
tions of their beings— by men and women of every
race and every age and of every degree of culture it
is felt also by birds and by animals from the highest
forms to the lowest and simplest; and it has been so
felt through all the stages of development from the
amoeba upward. What a man and woman feel in the
most exalted moments of their union, and what they
16
I NTRODUCTI ON
regard as so precious and intimate, they in reality
share with all creatures. It is part of the creative
urge which drives the world and which has created
them and ourselves and every living thing about us.
It would seem therefore as highly probable that what
it gives rise to at its highest is an indication of what
it will bring forth in the ages to come. What the
most perfect lovers in the most perfect moments of
their love have experienced may give at least to
them a glimpse of the world to be—of that higher
state of which the great mystics tell us.
And perhaps an illustration of the way in which a
living whole may affect one of the parts of which it is
composed may further help us to understand the
wonderful way in which a mystic is affected.
How the mystic is related to the Creative Spirit of
the universe, and how the Creative Spirit works in
and upon the mystic may be inferred by observing a
patriot in relation to his country. Take a Frenchman
and France. In ordinary times the love of a French­
man for France and of France for him is scarcely
noticeable. He goes about his daily business feeling
nothing in particular going out from him to France
or coming in to him from her. Then suddenly comes
a national crisis. His country is in danger. And
instantly he is aflame with passionate love for France.
He feels her calling to him and with his whole heart
he responds to the call. He may be a poet of delicate
physique and highly strung nerves. But he goes
gladly forth to suffer incredible physical hardships
and risk his precious life under the most torturing
conditions. Pain and agony of mind and body are
his lot. Yet moments come of supreme exaltation
when he finds himself lifted high above the squalor
17
I NTRODUCTI ON
and the mirk and the torture, and he glows with the
love he bears his country and which his country
bears him.
Or, again, this Frenchman may have devoted his
life to the service of France. He may be an Ambas­
sador of France in a foreign country. It will have
been his business and his delight to represent France
as she really and truly is—to represent the real France
—to the country to which he is accredited. To do
this effectively he will have had to study his own
country more minutely and intimately than he might
ever have done if he had always remained in France.
And comparison with the foreign country in which
he was working would have helped him in the study.
He would seek to catch the fundamental and lasting
spirit of France so as to be able accurately to interpret
it to these foreigners. And he would have laboured
year after year, in small ways and in great ways, in
rough times and in smooth, to cultivate and preserve
and consolidate a lasting friendship between the two
countries. Then the time would arrive when his
labours would be over. When the time for his de­
parture home would come and he would be able to
stand back and see the result. All that he had hoped
may not have been achieved. Frictions and discords
may still remain. Yet much may have been done.
He may have won the affection for himself personally
of the country he was working in. And because his
own country sees he has gained this esteem and
affection she will welcome him home with gratitude.
To one who has so faithfully served her she will pour
out her love. And in the silence of his own heart at
the end of his service there will be an inner glow of
proud satisfaction. He will have loved his country
and will have felt his country’s love for him. And
18
I NT RODUCT I ON
in that culminating moment of his life he will have
discovered both what he had it in himself to be and
what his country might be at her best. The French­
man will have had a foretaste of the France to come.
Thus this Frenchman has been born of France. He
has breathed the air of France. He has lived the life
of France. He has loved the love of France. In the
spirit of France he has lived and moved and had his
being. And in like manner has the mystic been bom
of the universe, breathed the air of the universe, lived
the life and loved the love of the universe. In that
mysterious Living Power which actuates all the
activity of the universe he has lived and moved and
had his being. He has entered into that Creative
Urge and it has entered into him. There has been a
mutual interpenetration. And when they are inter­
penetrated to the full the mystic intuitively senses
what the Mysterious Power essentially is. He divines
what the driving Power of the world is like and has a
foretaste of what it is driving at.
And if this be really so, then once more we see how
valuable this experience is to us in forecasting the
next step upward in the progressive development of
the human race. The mystic has had experience—
direct and immediate experience— of the inmost
working of the universe. His soul has been in actual
correspondence with the soul of the universe. Having
entered deeply into the spirit of the universe and
having been even more deeply penetrated by it he
has known something of what the essential nature of
the universe really is. And if he knows what is the
essential nature of the universe he knows also what
it must eventually become. For all things in the
end become what they at bottom are.
And the progress which mystics disclose may prove
19
I NTRODUCTI ON
to be something very different from what is generally
considered to be progress. To most men, not only
of the present day but of every age, progress is looked
upon as synonymous with the improvement of material
conditions. A civilization which can produce motor­
cars, aeroplanes, railways, steam-ships, telephones,
telegraphs, radios and cinematographs is generally
regarded as advanced. But the enlightened few in
every age have seen that true civilization is something
more than material development—that it is spiritual­
ization—that all these material things are only instru­
ments for giving the leisure and opportunity for the
development of the spirit. Just as the progress of a
plant is towards something more than the very neces­
sary and useful stalk and is towards the fulfilment of
its essential nature in the flower, so the progress of
the human race must be towards the fuller actualiza­
tion and manifestation of the Central Spirit of the
universe. The nearer the human race approaches to
that Spirit the further it will have progressed. And
the value of the mystical experience will be found in
showing us that towards which we should aim at
progressing.
We start our investigation, then, with the assump­
tion that we are born out of and always remain part
of a universe which is a living universe and animated
with Spirit—that at the core is Spirit. That dynamic
urge which permeates the universe from centre to
circumference we have in ourselves and by it we are
being continually acted upon. It burns within us.
And we are bathed by it as by the sunshine from
without. But there are times when this Power is
peculiarly insistent and urgent within us. And there
are times when it presses upon us with peculiar
urgency from without. And there are rare occasions
20
I NT RODUCT I ON
when in rare individuals the urge from within and
the pressure from without meet and correspond.
That within an individual is reaching upward with
peculiar insistency. And the spirit from without is
pressing upon the individual with unusual potency.
There is interaction between the individual and the
whole. The individual rises to meet and respond to
the pressure of his environment. He is enthralled
by it. He enjoys the mystical experience. And in
that moment he is entering on a new state of being.
Before that he had led a pre-natal existence. Now
he is being born into the world of light and air and
sunshine. Before that he was enclosed in the bud.
Now he has burst through the bud and opened out into
the full-blown flower, enjoying the light and air and
sunshine which had all the time been acting on him.
He resembles those venturous precursors of his who
crawled from the sea on to the land and first expe­
rienced the thrill. As they ventured forth from the
dullness of the sea to the brightness of the land so
does he rise from the grey life of ordinary existence
into the glowing realm of the spirit. His unaccus­
tomed eye may be unable long to bear the glory.
But once having experienced the thrill of the larger
existence he will want to communicate it to his
fellows. And what he has to tell us we have now to
hear so that we may have some faint inkling of what
is that higher state of being towards which we are
being propelled, but for the creation of which we
ourselves also bear responsibility.
21
CHAPTER I
HINDU MYSTICS
KESHUB CHANDER SEN
I
N the year 1875 there met in Calcutta two of the
greatest Indians of that century; and they
immediately leaped to each other. Strongly
contrasted as they were in a hundred particulars, each
instantly recognized in the other the same craving
for G od; and each saw that the other had had a
like experience of God. There was an affinity be­
tween them which flashed at once from the one to
the other. They aroused feelings in one another
which none else could. They gave a joy to each
other which nothing else could excite. There were
differences between them ; and these differences were
strong and fundamental. Yet they only served as
contrasts showing up the essential characteristics of
each: they were not oppositions. They did not
sever the two m en: they only went to unite them.
And it is because of these differences which united
instead of severing them that I describe these two
remarkable men in their friendship.
Keshub Chander Sen was then in the height of his
renown. He was a commanding figure, with a per­
fect knowledge of the English language and highly
cultured in Western learning. Also he was one of
the finest orators o f his day, and his eloquence on
22
K E 8 HUB AND R A M A K B I 8 HNA
the public platform had attracted the most prominent
men both in India and England. Viceroys had pub­
licly acknowledged his gifts. In India he was the
leader of a religious movement among the most cul­
tured in the land. He had visited England and
created a deep impression there, being received by
Queen Victoria herself.
Ramakrishna was very different. He was only
known to the smallest circle. He had no knowledge
whatever of Western learning and spoke no English.
He had been no farther than Benares and Calcutta.
He never spoke in public. He rarely or never read.
And he had no organized following.
Yet these two had a strange attraction for one
another and “ fell in love ” with one another at sight.
They were both fired with the same zeal for God— for
getting right down to the heart of things— for climb­
ing the highest heights of spiritual attainment. They
each sensed that the other had experienced things of
the spirit of which most men knew nothing. And
they both felt that they could excite each other to
the enjoyment of yet richer experience.
The meeting of these two men, each at the summit
of his powers— Ramakrishna thirty-eight and Keshub
thirty-six years of age— has been described in some
detail by eye-witnesses. While Keshub and some of
his followers were performing their religious exercises
in the Belgharia garden in Calcutta a rickety hackney
carriage drove up and a scantily dressed man of dis­
hevelled appearance got out. He was accompanied
by a younger man— his nephew, Hriday—who went
forward to introduce him. His appearance was so
unpretending and simple, and he spoke so little at first
that not much notice was taken of him till, after
having returned to consciousness from a state of trance
23
HINDU MYSTICS
into which he had been thrown while singing a hymn,
he burst forth in a torrent of words which went
straight to the heart of his listeners. What he said
was so profound and so beautiful that they soon per­
ceived that he was no ordinary man.
This first acquaintance with Keshub quickly
matured into intimate friendship, and the intimacy
between these two intensely religious men had a power­
ful effect on Keshub’s catholic mind. These two fine
Indian religious spirits instinctively leaned towards
each other. They were both great learners. Both
were incessantly trying to acquire all they could from
other leading men. And both saw how much each
had to learn from the other. Few could assimilate
the inner thoughts of Ramakrishna like Keshub or
benefit more by him. Especially did the remarkable
tenderness with which Ramakrishna cherished the
conception of God as Mother appeal to Keshub, for he
himself had already conceived of God in that manner.
On the other hand, none did more than Keshub to
refine the exuberant religious life of Ramakrishna.
Consequently, Keshub and his followers would often
go to see Ramakrishna in his temple at Dakineshwar,
about six miles above Calcutta on the banks of the
Ganges; and Ramakrishna would frequently visit
Keshub in Calcutta. Keshub has recorded that God
had endowed his spirit with such sensitivity that the
moment he drew near a saintly soul he imbibed his
goodness, and as soon as the saint had left he could
distinctly feel that he had poured virtue into his life :
he seemed, he said, to become fake the saint. Rama­
krishna had the same feeling—only perhaps to an
intenser degree. The very sight of Keshub, we are
told by one who knew them both, was sufficient to
cause an upheaval in the highly emotional soul of
24
TRANCE
Ramakrishna. His heart would be captured by the
Infinite in such a manner that he would fall into a deep
trance. And when he had recovered from it he would
speak with such force and rapidity that the other could
hardly find time to utter a single word. Thought
after thought would rush into his mind, and he would
have to stop the other that he might give expression
to all that he had in him. It would be an unbroken
flow of spiritual truth and experiences welling up from
the perennial spring of his own devotion and wisdom.
And the similes, the metaphors, and the illustrations
would be as apt as they were original.
One occasion when Keshub went by steamer to
visit Ramakrishna in his temple has been graphically
described by a follower of Keshub. It was during the
Maghotsav festival. The steamer was decorated with
flowers. The sky was clear and blue. A delicious air
was blowing. The broad bosom of the Ganges was
dancing under the evening sky. Keshub and his
party were chanting the name of Hari all the w ay;
and the devotees, their hearts filled with enthusiasm
and love, were performing a mystic dance round
Keshub himself. At that time Ramakrishna was sit­
ting in his simple room at one end of the temple con­
versing on religious subjects with a few select devo­
tees. Suddenly he stopped and with uncontrollable
emotion exclaiming, “ Here comes Keshub with his
party: who can sing such Kirtan but Keshub’s
party ? ” he rushed out of the room to the river bank.
By now the steamer had reached the landing-place
and the singing rose to a climax. It was impossible
to control Ramakrishna. He dashed on to the
steamer and folded Keshub into his bosom, ejacula­
ting, “ Thou art my Shyam, I am thy Radha. Thou
art my Shyam, I am thy Radha.”
M
.K
. 26 o
H i n d u m y s t i c s
After the first greetings he began to speak of the
various ways in which he used to perform his spiritual
exercises, but suddenly pulled himself up, saying there
were things about secret exercises which should not
be told : it was impossible to express in language the
ecstasy of divine communion when the human soul
lost itself in contemplation of the Deity. Then he
spoke of Nirakar (formless) Brahman, and repeating
the word Nirakar two or three times he quietly passed
into Samadhi as the diver slips into the fathomless deep.
In this state of Samadhi his whole body relaxed and
then became rigid. There was no twitching of the
muscles or nerves, nor any movement of the limbs.
Both his hands lay in his lap with the fingers slightly
interlocked. The sitting posture of the body was
easy, but absolutely motionless. The face was slightly
tilted up and in repose. The eyes were nearly, but
not wholly closed. The eyeballs were not turned up
or otherwise deflected, but they were fixed and con­
veyed no message of outer objects to the brain. So
far his body was inexpressive. It was in the smile
that all the power of expression was concentrated.
The lips were parted in a beatific and indescribable
smile. And there was something in that wonderful
smile that could never be reproduced.
Keshub and his party gazed in silence for several
minutes on the motionless form of the saint. Then
Keshub’s singing apostle began to sing a hymn to the
accompaniment of a drum and cymbals. And as the
music swelled in volume Ramakrishna slowly opened
his eyes and looked round him as if he were in a strange
place. The music stopped. He asked who those
about him were. Then he vigorously slapped the top
o f his head crying out, “ Go down, go down ! ” He
gradually became fully conscious, sang a hymn and
26
KESHUB AT SCHOOL
then gave a lucid exposition on how the voice should
be trained. And no one made mention of the trance.
How did these two men, so unlike in many respects
and leading such different lives, come so near each
other in the end ? What was the initial disposition
of each ? And by what way, and through what strug­
gles and sacrifices, had the two converged towards the
same spiritual summit ? These are the questions we
have now to answer. And first we will study the
character and career of Keshub Chander Sen.
Keshub Chander Sen was bom in Calcutta in 1838.
The Sens are of Vaidaya caste, of high position in
Bengali society, wealthy and cultured. As a boy he
was gentle, shy and reserved, though conscious of his
own importance. He was good-looking, had great
intelligence and at school worked hard and won prizes.
But in those early years among his boy companions
he was not warm-hearted, he made no bosom friends,
and was not religious. He showed no precocious
spirituality.
His education was received at the Hindu College,
Calcutta, a good school of the aristocratic type. And
there he already showed a decided turn for initiation
and leadership— his self-will and indefatigability in
overcoming opposition early displaying themselves.
He had always been fond of making up jatras, popular
semi-theatrical performances. More for entertain­
ment than for any religious purpose he would make
up the Ram Jatra representing scenes from the great
religious poem, the Ramayana. And later he estab­
lished classes for reading, reciting, and playing scenes
from Shakespeare—he himself taking the leading part,
nd being more particularly fond of the part of Ham­
it. To Shakespeare he was particularly addicted,
27
HI NDU MYSTICS
though he also read Milton, Bacon and other English
writers, and much philosophy.
He has given a picture of himself as he was in those
days of dawning manhood. The background was of
deep, intense black. In sorrow, anxiety, asceticism
his religious life began. All the pleasures which youth
enjoys he shunned as poison. To his body he said:
“ Thou art the road to perdition : I will rule thee, or
thou wilt lead me to death.” To be worldly was, in
his eyes, sinful. To be fond of his wife was sinful.
He did not weep, but he lived on without a smile.
Though he was married at eighteen his wife, then a
girl of ten, had not yet come to live with him. Now,
when he was twenty and leaving College she was com­
ing. He was about to enter the world. Danger was
ahead. The end was to be in jo y ; but the beginning
was in melancholy. He resolved never to be over-
fond of his wife or of the world.
His biographer, Muzoomdar, describes him at this
time as tall, thin, lanky, bony, morose, sad, and stem.
Novel-reading was an abomination to him. Love-songs
he abhorred. He ate neither fish nor meat, and was,
indeed, for the rest of his fife a vegetarian. He spoke
little. His neighbours blamed him for being a proud,
contemptuous, unsociable young man. And though he
read much, he read only austere books of moral philos­
ophy or fiery Christian sermons by Blair and Chalmers.
He matured his morality before he began his religion.
How his religion began it is not easy to trace. It
seems to have come through prayer. He did not
know what the right religion was, or what the true
Church. But he felt the supreme necessity for prayer.
“ Why or for what I prayed I did not know,” he
wrote. “ But in the first glimmer of light I heard the
voice, ‘ Pray, pray; without prayer there is no other
28
P R A Y E R
way.’ . . . I felt a longing for something higher.
The consciousness of sin was awakened within me.
But I felt that I had a Heavenly Friend always near
to succour me. God Himself told me this—no book,
no teacher but God Himself in the secret recesses of
my heart. He gave me the secret of spiritual life, and
that was prayer. And to this I owe my conversion.”
He at once began composing forms of prayers for
every morning and evening and used them daily,
although he was not yet a member of any Church and
had no clear conception of God.
His elder brother who was his intimate guardian
tried to ridicule him, to argue him out of this melan­
choly state, and to put him down with a high hand,
as elders can do in an Indian household. But nothing
availed with Keshub. It seemed as if he was under
the operation of impulses he could not control. Soon
he began to feel the need of communion with friends
from whom he could receive spiritual assistance and
comfort, and with this object in view, in 1857, while
he was still at the Hindu College, he established a
little Society which he called the Goodwill Fraternity.
In speaking before this little brotherhood he found a
wholesome vent for his sombre moods. And in read­
ing to it a sermon on Inspiration by Theodore Parker
he showed that beneath his brooding melancholy an
intense fire was hiddenly burning. One evening five
or six young men with Keshub in the lead gathered in
the Sen family mansion doors, and in the dim light of
an oil lamp each one poured forth his innermost yearn­
ings in sincere prayer. Keshub spoke and they all
wept and ejaculated aloud. A nameless solemnity
filled every heart. For the first time the Eternal
Spirit of God seemed to them a hallowed presence.
This Goodwill Fraternity continued its activity for
29
HI NDU MYSTICS
a couple of years. Keshub would often preach ex­
tempore in English. All his intelligence, energy and
moral earnestness were set aflame by the zeal that was
burning so fiercely within him. He would speak loud
and long, pouring forth a torrent of words. And
many young men were drawn by them.
And now there appears upon the scene a stately
figure who was to play a decisive part in Keshub’s life.
Another of the great families in Calcutta are the
Tagores (of which the poet Rabindranath Tagore is
the most famous representative). In Keshub’s time
the chief was Davendranath Tagore, a typical, digni­
fied head of a household. And this princely personage,
attended by liveried servants, once appeared at a Good­
will Fraternity meeting, thus greatly encouraging the
young men. For with all his worldly appearance he
was a man of profound religious feeling. He was leader
of the Brahmo Somaj, a small but important religious
body which had been founded a quarter of a century
previously by that great reformer, Ram Mohun Roy,
and had attracted to its ranks many of the Western-
educated and more liberal-minded men of the time.
To this body Keshub himself had lately been
attracted. A pandit had lent him a small publica­
tion of the Brahmo Somaj, and in a chapter of it
entitled “ What is Brahmoism ? ” he had found that
inner correspondence of spirit which for him amounted
to a revelation. He privately signed the Brahmo
Somaj covenant. Davendranath Tagore, who always
tried to persuade young men of influential families to
join the Somaj, was much gratified to hear of Keshub’s
spontaneous adhesion, and it was to show his interest
that he had come to the Fraternity meeting.
But trouble lay ahead for Keshub with his family
over this adhesion to an unorthodox religious body.
30
FA MI L Y LIFE
And the opposition of his family is a terrible thing to
a young Hindu, for the head of a family is believed
to be given that position in trust from God. He looks
to God for guidance in the discharge of his duties;
and he expects implicit obedience.
And as the strength of Hindu family ties will be
often referred to, a word or two about the Hindu
family is needed. The Hindu marriage is not a con­
tract but a sacrament. It is the union of souls. The
wife worships her husband as her Lord, and the hus­
band adores her as the Divine Queen. The wife
thinks that the husband reincarnates in her son. The
son looks upon the father as God incarnate and his
mother as a goddess. An atmosphere of reverence is
thus engendered. And every member of the family
is regarded as of divine value. All are expected to
work together for the common happiness. And ser­
vants are regarded as part of the living whole— a whole
dominated by religion. All rise early, perform their
ablutions, enter the worship room, prostrate them­
selves before God, sing hymns, make offerings, salute
the family priest and each of the family ; and it would
not be until these religious ceremonies had been per­
formed that food would be taken. The day’s work
would thus start under a religious impulse.
Probably in the case of Keshub’s family many of
these customs may have fallen into abeyance. But
the family tie was still strong; and so also was the
influence of the family priest. And at this time—
about 1858— the family priest of the Sens appeared
in the family house to celebrate the rites of initiation
in religion over the young, absolution from sin over
the old, and spiritual efficacy over all. Keshub was
among the young who were marked for the ceremony
of initiation. He had expressed his disinclination to
31
HI NDU MYSTICS
his mother. But his guardians were determined that
the initiation should take place. Great preparations
were accordingly made for the ceremony. The guard­
ians, headed by his fiery old uncle, the terror of the
whole family, were assembled. Keshub’s cousins
went submissively through the ceremony, and the
time for Keshub himself had arrived. It was a crucial
moment in his life. The fatal question was p u t:
“ W ilt thou accept the ceremony of initiation as the
other young men have done ? ”
Quiet and self-possessed he gently but firmly
replied: No. More than once the question was asked
and with increasing firmness. But Keshub was im­
movable, and the powers of orthodoxy were unable
to prevail against his steady determination.
Davendranath Tagore sent to inquire the result of
the dread contest, and the congratulations he sent to
Keshub on hearing of the stand he had made were the
basis of the remarkable friendship which grew up
between these two men, and which, in spite of a soul-
racking difference on Brahmo Somaj affairs, lasted
until Keshub’s death.
In accordance with Hindu custom Keshub now had
to earn his living, and for that purpose entered the
Bank of Bengal as a clerk in 1859. But two years
later, in the face of strong remonstrances from his
family, he resigned his clerkship in order to write
tracts and deliver lectures for the Brahmo Somaj.
In his first tract he showed the baneful influence of
the godless education given in the Government schools
and he urged young Indians to turn to God and pray
to Him for those spiritual blessings which are essential
to the sustenance of the soul. And in a second tract
he spoke of God as an ever-present and ever-living
Reality that can be seen and felt.
32
Y OU T H F U L ZEAL
Then he started a little Society named the Sangat
Sava, mainly for religious conversation. Strange
earnestness characterized every proceeding, says Ma-
zoomdar,the devoted friend and biographer of Keshub.
All were young men. They met frequently and with
fiery zeal for self-reformation, laid bare their whole
hearts, courted mutual aid and criticism, and under
Keshub’sguidancemade genuine progress. Theywould
sit up the whole night in Keshub’s room. And though
religion was new to them and they were new to each
other, a burning repentance for past sins purified their
hearts, joint prayers knit them together, and Keshub’s
eloquence and example fired them as they fired him.
Keshub also began a correspondence with Theists
outside India, especially with Francis Newman and
Frances Power Cobbe in England. And realizing the
value of a newspaper as a means of influencing the
Hindu community on religious and educational mat­
ters he started the Indian Mirror in 1861. Not con­
tent with this he proceeded to establish the Calcutta
College in 1862. And such a reputation had he
already won that in the same year, at the age of
twenty-four, he was appointed Minister of the Brahmo
Somaj, Davendranath Tagore saying of him at this
time : “ Whatever he thought in his mind he had the
power to express in speech ; whatever he said, he had
the power to do ; whatever he did, he had the power
of making other men do.”
Nevertheless, all was not running on oiled wheels
without friction. And the occasion of his installation
as Minister found him faced with another of those
terrible obstructions which age-long Hindu traditions
set up in the path of progress. He and other young
Brahmos had been educating their wives and trying
to instil into them the same views on religion that
33
HI NDU MYSTICS
they themselves held. On the grand occasion of
Keshub’s installation they determined to invite them
to take part in the festivities. And Keshub went to
fetch his wife from her father’s house and take her to
the house of Davendranath Tagore. But to this the
guardians strenuously objected. The ladies of the
two families had never been on visiting terms. And
the guardians specially objected to giving any coun­
tenance to his accession to the Brahmo Somaj Minis­
try. So when he and his wife—then only about fifteen
years of age—were preparing to set out for the cere­
mony they found the way barred. All the elder
brothers, uncles and cousins residing in the family
house of the Sens had come out to object. Servants
and gate-keepers were posted at various points. And
the big outer gates were bolted and barred. Keshub
and his young wife walked past the angry relatives,
who had imagined that their mere presence would
deter him. And when the gate-keepers refused to let
him out he simply ordered them to withdraw the bolt
and unlock the gate, and, compelled by his command­
ing presence, they obeyed.
This was not, however, the end of the matter.
Keshub had still more to suffer. The ceremonies of
the installation had scarcely finished when he received
a formal letter from his uncle and elder brother for­
bidding him to re-enter the family house and telling
him that since he had deliberately outraged the feel­
ings of his guardians he might in future shift for
himself and expect nothing further from them.
To a young married couple without any means of
subsistence this was a cruel blow. It was mitigated
by the kindness of Davendranath Tagore, who nobly
invited Keshub to live in his house as long as he liked.
But it was at the cost to Keshub of domestic ostra-
34
SOCIAL REFORM
cism and the severance of his dearest family ties that
the way was opened for that freer life which the women
of India have since then won for themselves.
His next great enterprise was a tour through India.
His ideas were expanding. He would embrace all
India in the Brahmo Somaj. He lectured everywhere.
And it is noteworthy that he used the English language.
He seems to have been more at home in it for the
expression of his ideas. And through it he was able to
exercise a wider influence than he ever would have been
able to exert through the medium of his own native
Bengali. He was well received by Sir Bartle Frere,
the Governor of Bombay, and by Dr. Wilson, the
veteran missionary. And he attracted large audiences.
And he was already beginning to press for those
social reforms, such as permitting the marriage of
widows, and intermarriage between castes, which he
had so much at heart for the rest of his life. Here,
however, he came up dead against his noblest friend
and patron, the generous-hearted Davendranath
Tagore, who could never reconcile himself to the idea
of widows marrying, still less to the marriage of per­
sons of different castes. Such revolutionary ideas
were abhorrent to this old Hindu. And many of the
more staid, elderly members of the Brahmo Somaj
were with him. They, too, were alarmed at the new
ideas and new measures which Keshub and the young
men round him were introducing. Keshub was of an
aristocratic family, and from long-inherited tradition
reverenced the sacred caste of the Brahmins. But he
was burning with youthful ardour ; and deeper still
was the fiery ambition to establish a new society and
found a new religion. The sensitive elders quickly
divined these hidden intentions. They had alreadygone
far in breaking with the ancient Hindu forms of worship
35
H I N D U MYSTICS
by discarding idolatry. But they were still strict ob­
servers of the rigid caste customs regarding marriage.
And they were not prepared to approve of members
of the different castes mixing together, eating together,
marrying together and even occupying the pulpit
hitherto reserved for the sacred Brahmin caste alone.
All this feeling antagonistic to Keshub’s revolu­
tionary ideas had intensified during his absence in
Bombay and Madras. And when he returned he soon
sensed the trouble that lay before him. He had sin­
cere reverence for Davendranath. But he did not
open his heart to the elder, who complained that he
kept his own counsel and hid behind an impenetrable
reserve. There was no drawing together between the
two men. There was, indeed, a drifting apart. Keshub
with all his shyness and all his reverence was inflexible
in purpose. And when he insisted on reforms and
Davendranath opposed them, a break was sure to come.
It came over a trivial incident. A cyclone had
damaged the old building of the Somaj, and the
weekly Divine Service had to be held in Daven-
dranath’s private house. This was in November
1865. When Keshub arrived he found that the
assistant minister who had been deposed for retaining
the sacred thread of the Brahmin caste had been
reinstated by Davendranath a few minutes before
Keshub’s arrival and was installed in the pulpit.
Keshub warmly protested against this irregularity.
Davendranathreplied that asthe Service was being held
in his private house he could make what arrangements
he liked. Keshub insisted that worship was public.
He declined to join in the Service, and left the house.
Thus began the act of secession from the parent Somaj.
Keshub did not actually at the moment mean to
make a definite break. He proposed a separate day
36
LECTURE ON JESUS
of public worship in the Somaj building for himself and
his friends. And he endeavoured to arrange united
festivals during the anniversary. But Davendranath
was inexorable. Old Hindus can be very stubborn.
And young Hindus can be very fiery. There was no
prospect of reconciliation. The warm Indian affection
between the two remained—and remained till death.
But in the matter of reforms the breach was final.
Having thus broken away from the old Somaj,
Keshub now went ardently and resolutely ahead with
his new idea and in 1866 established a Brahmo Somaj
for all India with a constitution by which the members
might control their own affairs and elect their own
officers and thus be free of the autocratic rule of a
few favoured individuals. Membership was to be open
to men and women of every race or community who
wished to join. Selections from the Scriptures of all
nations were compiled in a text-book of devotional
lessons. And for the first time extracts from the Bible,
Koran, Zend-Avesta, and the Hindu Shasters stood
side by side as the Scriptures of the Brahmo Somaj.
He also now came out in startling prominence as a
speaker. At Calcutta, in March 1866 he announced a
lecture on “ Jesus Christ, Europe and Asia.” The
hall he engaged was packed with both Europeans
and Indians.
“ Verily, Jesus was above ordinary humanity,” he
said. “ And was not Jesus an Asiatic ? I rejoice,
yea, I am proud that I am an Asiatic. Christianity
was founded and developed by Asiatics in Asia. And
when I reflect on this my love for Jesus becomes a
hundred-fold intensified. I feel Him nearer my heart
and deeper in my national sympathies. . . . In Christ
we see not only the exaltedness of humanity but also
the grandeur of which Asiatic nature is susceptible.
37
HI NDU MYSTICS
The more this fact is pondered, the less I hope will
be the antipathy of European Christians to Oriental
nationalities and the greater the interest of Asiatics
in the teachings of Christ.”
This striking lecture aroused both resentment and
approbation. The parent body of the Brahmo Somaj
from which he had seceded looked upon it as an indica­
tion that he was seeking shelter under the Christian
missionaries and congratulated themselves that they
had weeded him out. And Keshub keenly felt the critic­
isms made upon him. On the other hand, the Viceroy,
Lord Lawrence, was so pleased with the lecture that
he intimated to Keshub that he wished to make his
personal acquaintance when he returned to Calcutta.
Along with these outward activities great internal
changes were taking place in Keshub. In his early
religious development there had been plenty of faith
and enthusiasm, asceticism and moral rigour, but
not much joy or love of God. In the beginning of
1867 his nature took a sudden change, according to
Mazoomdar. The separation of tender ties with
Davendranath Tagore, the unpopularity following
upon the lecture on Jesus Christ, the absence of
worldly resources, and even of a place of worship,
the vacillations and differences among his own com­
panions, joined perhaps to a sense of his own sins
and shortcomings, created a crisis in Keshub’s soul.
And about this time he began to hold daily Services
in his house in order to find spiritual comfort in his
trials. At these Services the emotions of his powerful
nature were stirred to the depths. Hitherto he had
had an abundance of moral austerity, acute intelli­
gence, and fiery enthusiasm. Now he had an extreme
tenderness of devotional sentiment. And he hailed this
ecstasy of a new life with all the ardour of his nature.
38
MONGHYR R E V I V A L
To add to the intensity of his fervour he imparted
the spirit of the Vaishnava religion into the Brahmo
devotions. Vaishnava hymns (Sankirtan) adapted
to Vaishnava tunes and sentiment were introduced;
and the Vaishnava drum, cymbals and violin were
used. A new world of religious feeling was thus
opened up, and a new spiritual relationship made
with the popular Bengali prophet, Chaitanya.
And a tremendous impetus to the musical develop­
ment was given by the adhesion of Trylokynath
Sanyal—afterwards known as the singing apostle.
He would improvise tunes, and compose new hymns
to suit Keshub’s sermons and prayers. And his
melodious voice would touch the hearts of his hearers.
This new phase culminated in the Festival in God
of November 1867. Keshub on this occasion threw
himself rapturously into the excitement. It came
to him as a strange inspiration which he could not
resist. He loudly sang, though his natural shyness
had never allowed him to do this before. Never
before had he wept, but now streams of tears ran
down his face. He had become a new man.
A few months later—in 1868—he went to Monghyr,
where unexpectedly and unsought a veritable Revival
took place. He held the ordinary Services in a little
bungalow which he had rented. These Services were
from the first numerously attended. But week by
week the congregation increased. Often the members
were moved to tears, and sobs, and to ejaculations
that were almost hysterical. The women vied with
the men in expressing their devotions. Even people
from the bazaar were attracted. Processions peram­
bulated the streets by night, as well as by day, and
sang at the ghats by the riverside. The whole town was
in a ferment. Some danced. One or two fell into fits of
39
HI NDU MYSTICS
unconsciousness. Not a few saw visions. Several left
theirworldly vocations and joined the missionarybody.
It was a new experience. And the love of the
members for one another was unusually developed.
They embraced and fell at each other’s feet. And
these feelings were intensified to the utmost pitch in
relation to Keshub. They prostrated themselves
before him. They talked of him in extravagant
terms as “ lord,” “ master,” “ saviour.” And they
openly alluded to him as one of the prophets like the
Buddha, or Chaitanya.
This caused alarm to some members. They wrote
to the papers charging his admiring disciples with
worshipping Keshub, and accusing Keshub himself of
conniving at it. And in this accusation there may
have been a grain of truth. Privately, the shy,
reserved Keshub revolted against anything of the
kind. But he, also, was never wanting in a conscious­
ness of his destiny or of his great powers. He was
convinced that men would have to recognize his
unique place in the Brahmo Somaj and that they
would have to give him unquestioning honour. And
in this present Revival he felt that his opportunity
had arrived, his mission had been revealed to him,
and that the response he had long waited for had been
inspired in those about him by the grace of God. It
was testimony that the Spirit of God was with him,
and that his work was true and his time had come.
This Revival at Monghyr did, indeed, make deep
and abiding impressions upon Keshub. He saw the
direction in which the religion of the Brahmo Somaj
could be made popular in the land. And it created
for the first time that mystical feeling and that faith
in an active special Providence which from now
onward ran as undercurrent in all his activities. He
40
THE H I M A L A Y A
felt assured, too, that the lop-sided intellectual educa­
tion which the rising generation had so deeply imbibed,
the scepticism which it generated, and the materialistic
and irreverent tendencies which Western civilization
daily spread could be counteracted only by those
violent upheavals of the devotional sentiment towards
God which are so characteristic of India.
From these intensely spiritual gatherings Keshub
was now called to the more matter-of-fact business of
helping the Government of India to draft a law
regulating Hindu marriage. In the previous winter
he had met Lord Lawrence, who had indeed attended
one of his eloquent lectures. And now the Viceroy
had invited him to Simla as his guest. Keshub
assisted the Government officials in their work. But
for his deeper self the Himalaya was a greater attrac­
tion. He saw the great mountains for the first time.
And he thought of the ages when they were the
abode of the holiest and wisest men of India. He
felt himself the descendant and successor of these
saints. And he wrote an exhortation under the title
“ A Voice from the Himalaya,” urging men to rise
from their death-like sleep and let their ears hear
the joyful sound of salvation and their eyes drink
the sweet light of the new day.
From Simla he returned to Calcutta. The Brahma
Mandir, his new place of worship, was formally opened
in August 1869. It was, he declared, founded with
the object that all quarrels, all misunderstandings,
and all pride of caste might be destroyed, and
brotherly feeling perpetuated.
Suddenly, at the end of 1869, he announced that he
was going to England. He left Calcutta in February
1870 and reached London in March. It is not neces­
sary to say much about this visit, for we are con-
41 D
M.M.
HI NDU MYSTICS
cemed especially with his spiritual history. We need
only note that he had a phenomenal success—all the
more remarkable considering he was still only thirty-
two. Lord Lawrence, who had by now retired from
the Viceroyalty, prepared the way. The British and
Foreign Unitarian Association organized a meeting of
welcome at which Dean Stanley and several Members
of Parliament were present, and speeches of good­
will to the Brahmo Somaj were delivered. He
preached in Unitarian Churches. He delivered lec­
tures and made speeches in many places. And so
fine was his oratory that he was compared with
Gladstone and Bright. He was received with special
graciousness by Queen Victoria, he breakfasted with
Gladstone, he was visited by John Stuart Mill, and he
most favourably impressed Lord Shaftesbury.
An impression of him at this time has been given
by Miss Frances Power Cobbe, who then saw much of
him. She describes him as the most devoui man with
whom she had ever come in contact. What pro­
foundly impressed her was not so much his intellect
as his goodness. He seemed really to live in God and
to feel the joy of prayer as quite the greatest thing
in life. He told her, indeed, that when he prayed he
felt that his union with God was eternal. In outward
appearance he seemed to her to be the ideal of a great
teacher. He had a tall, manly figure (always clothed
in a long black robe), a handsome square face with
powerful jaw. His complexion and eyes were like a
Southern Italian’s. And he had all an Eastern’s
gentle dignity of manner. He spoke English quite
perfectly and made long extempore addresses without
error of any kind, or a single betrayal of foreign accent.
Keshub, on his part, was not so deeply impressed
by what he saw of Christianity in England. The
42
IN ENGLAND
spirituality, the imaginativeness, the faith, the en­
thusiasm, and the asceticism of the East he saw could
not be bound within the cold creeds and catechisms
of Europe. They would burst their way through.
Yet he was evidently stirred by the vigour of the
West. Westerners might not be so spiritual as the
Indians. But they were more practical. So he
returned to India bursting with reforming energy.
By November he had established an Indian Reform
Association “ for the social and moral reformation of
the Natives of India,” which was divided into sections
for Cheap Literature, Charity, Female Improvement,
Education, and Temperance. The intelligence and
refinement of the women of England had impressed
him, so he established a Normal School for Native
Ladies. In 1871 he was much occupied with the
Brahmo Somaj Marriage Bill. And in 1872 he formed
the Bharat Ashram for family life, a kind of religious
boarding-house to which the wives and children of
Brahmos from the interior were sent for training. He
had noted the good points of the English home and he
hoped to reproduce some of them in this institution.
But his views on women were still a little uncertain.
Favourable as he was to liberating them from many
social trammels he could never tolerate the idea of an
artificial, strong-mannered or strong-minded woman­
hood. Perhaps he had been scared by some of that
genus whom he had seen in England. He would
rather err on the side of over-caution than of laxity.
He was strongly against the University education of
women. He protested against women being taught
as men. They should be given an artistic, poetic
education, with a practical training in domestic
duties, elementary science, and the laws of health.
He repudiated the popular custom of the seclusion of
43
HI NDU MYSTICS
women, but be believed in the retirement of women.
There was a mysterious zenana where the inner
glories of God were made manifest.
As a reformer of caste, of the position of women, of
marriage customs, of intemperance, and as a social
reconstructor and educationalist his reputation was
now great. He held a unique position in Calcutta. He
was a member of all important Committees. And the
Viceroy, Lord Northbrook, visited him in his own home.
Yet he had his critics. A number of his followers
suspected that his main motive was the establishment
of his own autocracy. They objected to his teachings
on Special Providence, arguing that it was unreason­
able to suppose that God should be specially gracious.
The more rationalistic among them were also greatly
shocked at his doctrine that the Holy Spirit directly
commanded and guided devotees on all important
emergencies of life. They protested, too, against
some of his social reforms, while, on the other hand,
they complained that he was not sufficiently favour­
able to the emancipation of women. Holding these
views, they contemplated starting a rival organiza­
tion. And though this idea did not take form they
gradually ceased to attend the Mandir.
All this pained Keshub beyond measure. And
perhaps, after all, the true bent of his nature may not
have been so much towards those practical social re­
forms which his literary and personal contact with the
West had stirred him to inaugurate as towards those
deeper underlying reforms of the spirit so much nearer
to his own Indian nature. At any rate, from now on
he thought far less of social reform and much more of
religious reform, and threw his whole soul towards
foundational things of the spirit.
In 1875, the very year that he met Ramakrishna,
44
MADNESS IN GOD
and when he was still only thirty-seven, he suddenly
became melancholy again as he had been in his youth.
He was saddened at the sight of so much worldliness.
He insisted that his missionaries must practise asceti­
cism and strict discipline. An intenser course of
spiritual life was required, more renunciation, a
stricter poverty, longer hours of devotion.
Brahmoism so far had been somewhat free and easy.
Keshub now introduced Vairagya (asceticism), and
there was an unceasing development in that direction
in 1876. He returned to the point he had reached in
1869 before he went, at Lord Lawrence’s invitation,
to Simla and afterwards to England. He became in
a word less English and more Indian. He once more
fervently embraced Vaishnavism with its enthusiasm
and excitement, its Bhakti (love of God), its vehement
singing and dancing and its street processions.
His ideal of piety became an intoxication and mad­
ness in God. There were three natures in him, he
said—three persons—the one a child, the second a
madman, the third an inebriate. And in this union,
he affirmed, he had gained wonderful wisdom and
holiness. The more a man sought God the more
childlike he becam e; the more a man communed
with God the more like a madman he appeared; and
the more he tasted of Heaven the more inebriate he
grew. He liked to go where devotees, like madmen,
sang and danced in the excitement of God’s name.
And he had the same passion as an inebriate. An
inebriate always increases his dose. So did Keshub.
Formerly his devotions took five minutes. Now they
took five hours. Formerly any kind of wine did for
him. Now he wanted strong wine, such as was
drunk by Jesus and Chaitanya. And he waited for
the day when the whole East and West would become
45
H I N D U MYSTICS
maddened and inebriated by the love of God. So he
said in his autobiography, the Jeevan Ved.
And he would not only sing ; he who was formerly
so shy and reserved would join with those who danced
in their enthusiasm of singing the name of God. He
would laugh and cry in the ecstasy of his devotions.
He would not allow his reasoning powers any authority
over his devotional fervour; and he expressed the
greatest contempt for the intellect in regulating the
relations between the devotee and his God. Reason
was out of court there. Relationshipwith God was the
province of faith and love, and he willingly allowed
himself to be carried away by the impulses of his love.
Men laughed at him, but he laughed back and said
they didnot know what it was they were laughing at.
Direct-and immediate intercourse with the soul of
God was the distinctive feature of his religion. He
subordinated every act of his life and every duty to
his prayers. From now to his death the best part of
the day was spent in the daily service of his household
sanctuary. That sanctuary became the darling object
of his heart. He adorned it in every conceivable way.
After his early morning ablutions he would go into
the garden, pluck the best flowers and place them by
the pulpit. The firstfruits of the year were also
placed there—and the drum, the cymbals and the
one-stringed violin of the singing apostle.
As in his early youth so now he had a wonderful
faith in the efficacy of prayer. Through prayer a
man gained new wisdom, new insight, fresh flow of
heart, and greater force of will. And he not only
prayed; he wanted and waited for answer to his
supplication. And he went by the answer he re­
ceived. He believed in divine command (Adesh)—
though not a few of his friends ridiculed such an idea.
46
MOTHERHOOD OF GOD
He assiduously cultivated the habit of realizing the
Spirit of God in everything. He would address
flowers, trees, fire, water— everything that was beauti­
ful or grand. To him they were all symbolical. And
he seemed to commune with some hidden personality
in them.
Woman also he spiritualized. And it was now that
he acquired the idea of the Motherhood o f God.
Solitary commune with God was a necessity to him.
He would sit under some favourite tree and keep
talking as in a trance after which, with kindling face,
he would rejoin his friends.
Especially did he love the Himalaya, for there he
perceived affinity between himself and the great
Indian sages of the past; and he had an intense
desire to establish a hermitage there and spend in it
the remainder of his days. On the occasions when
he went to Simla he would spend much time in
absorbed communion with God. This absorption
would at times become an ecstasy. He would be
conscious of the presence of a Supreme Loving Per­
sonality. He would be enraptured. He would vio­
lently cry and laugh, and would talk vociferously.
His friends would be alarmed at these strange excite­
ments. But he would steadily persevere, finding in
this practice the chief consolation in his physical and
mental sufferings.
Describing these experiences, he wrote that this
consciousness was of the soul and the Supreme Soul
in one—a spiritual unification— duality in unity.
The Hindu devotee with his untutored nature yet
trained eye would see a Person behind all the wonders
and beauties of creation, and therefore he believed,
trusted, loved, and adored all at once. And what
happens in a small measure to ordinary humanity,
47
HI NDU MYSTICS
bursts like a flood of light upon great geniuses, said
Keshub. And he illustrated the vision from the
experiences of Moses in the burning bush, and Jesus
in the heavens opening and dove descending. “ To
see in an instant the very God of the Universe in a
flying bird, not only as an inspiring vital fire, but as
a blazing personal Divinity was,” says Keshub, “ a
feat of spiritual perception to which only the Son of
God was equal.”
Yet, in addition to these solitary communings, there
was a deep necessity in his nature for ceremonial.
He intensely sympathized with the warmth and
imagery of popular Hindu worship. He was stirred
by the flowers, the lights, the music, the fragrances,
the prostrations, the joyous, enthusiastic singing of
the Hindu worship. He discarded idolatry. And
he never went to any Hindu temple. But he liked
to adopt what he could of the aesthetic features of
Hindu worship.
All this ferment of spiritual life culminated in 1878
when, at the age of forty, he again urged a R evival;
but this time on the lines of a new revelation, a new
life, an altogether new departure—as he eventually
termed it, a New Dispensation. He felt he must
establish nothing less than a New Religion. He would
harmonize all religions. The Scriptures of Hindu,
Christian, Moslem and Buddhist were to be united in a
blessed harmony. There was to be an international
fellowship of Asia, Africa, Europe and America.
In his ideal of a National Church the religion of
Christ formed a large element— perhaps more than
half. There was to be unity of spirit but diversity
of forms. Thus India should sing the glory of God
with Indian voice and with Indian accompaniments.
And so should England and America. But all the
48
D I V I NE GUI DANCE
voices should commingle in one swelling chorus—a
universal anthem proclaiming the Fatherhood of God
and the Brotherhood of Man.
The greatest obstacle he met with was in regard to
his doctrine of Adesh, or commandment of God.
Protests were made against this idea of Divine
Inspiration in the ordinary emergencies of life—as,
for example, when he declared he had divine authority
for agreeing to the marriage of his daughter with the
Maharaja of Kuch Behar, though she was still under
age. He was charged with setting himself up as a
divine guide—as on a footing with Jesus or St. Paul.
This hostility roused him to intense excitement.
And he proceeded to make his position clear. Inspira­
tion, he defined as “ the fire of divine life as a
response to man’s earnest prayers.” He emphatically
disclaimed any pretensions to be a prophet, but as
emphatically claimed to receive inspiration.
“ In my creed all precepts begin with, *Thus saith
the Lord.’ But how do I know His voice \ There
is a ring, a peculiar intonation in the spirit voice of
the Lord. Those who have heard it often can recog­
nize it at once. It was my God who said to me
long ago, ‘ Thou shalt become a Theist.’ It was He
who said, ‘ Thou shalt give up all secular work, and
take no thought for the morrow.’ It was He who
said to me, ‘ Thou shalt lead a simple life, and devote
it to missionary work.’ ”
“ ‘ Tell me, Father,’ he prays, *if Thy voice is a
sound, and whether it comes to us as a sound.’ The
response is thus worded: *I do not speak as men
speak. Yet have I a voice which all true devotees
can hear. It is the Spirit’s voice audible to the
spirit’s ear. There is neither sound, nor language,
nor gesture. It is the language of the heart. Neither
Hebrew, nor Greek, nor Sanskrit, nor English; but
49
HI NDU MYSTI CS
the plain vernacular of the heart, the natural instincts,
and the feelings.’ ”
At all times he unflinchingly maintained that con­
science was the direct voice of God. And he wrote:
“ We must not regard inspiration as God speaking
by fits and starts, but as the perpetual breathing of
His Spirit. It may be realized in individual con­
science now and then, here and there, by this man or
that. But the Spirit of God is ever working in us,
and the flowing current of His inspiration knows no
rest. Whether we hear Him or not, He speaks always.
Whether we catch the rays of His inspiration or not,
He shines eternally and sends forth His light for the
redemption of mankind. Our position as frail beings
amid the temptations of this world, renders it neces­
sary that God should ever speak, so that we may hear
Him whenever we wish, and receive inspiration when­
ever and wherever we need it.”
This doctrine of inspiration was the foundation on
which he laid his New Dispensation. And he main­
tained it vehemently against all opposition.
His doctrine of the Motherhood of God also received
severe criticism. God addressed as Mother, and
represented as speaking to the devotee as the mother
would speak to her child— God regarded as the Queen
of the Indian nation, proclaiming the will divine as a
queen would make her proclamation to her loyal
subjects, were new and startling forms, even to the
Brahmo Somajists. And they were unpopular in
England as well as India. But he wanted to discard
the formalism and remoteness which theologians had
interposed between the soul and God. He wished men
to approach God as a child would approach his mother.
After long brooding and intense thought he there­
fore, at the anniversary meeting in January 1881,
50
THE NEW D I S P E N S A T I ON
formally announced the New Dispensation with
full sacramental solemnity. In March he ordained
Apostles of the New Dispensation. In April he
instituted a Sisterhood. And for all he formulated a
definite Code of Conduct and Laws of Life. Further,
he advocated the production of New Dispensation
Drama and New Dispensation Dancing.
He maintained that the New Dispensation was prac­
tical, was in line with scientific development, and was
ready for criticism. But he balanced these practical
“ European ” traits with emotional “ Asiatic ” traits.
“ The New Dispensation was profoundly emotional.
It hated dryness. It was the religion of tender love
and sweet affection. It afforded the fullest culture
to all the highest impulses and emotions of the heart.
It represented the golden age of religion, when all
looked bright and joyous. The New Dispensation was
transcendentally spiritual. Its eyes were naturally
turned inward and saw vividly the spirit world with­
in. It preferred the soul-kingdom to the kingdom of
the sense. It abhorred materialism. It spiritualised
everything it touched. It drank inspiration.”
According to this New Dispensation the devotee
stands face to face with the great and beautiful in
nature.
“ The force that bursts upon his vision is one in
which all that is in the effect is summed up as in
the primitive cause—power, intelligence, love and
beauty. He sees himself and the universe, the me
and the not me, living and moving in a central will-
force—in an intelligent and loving personality. And
as his cognitive faculties apprehend this almighty,
all-wise, and all-good Person, his heart overflows with
emotions and gratitude; trust, reverence, wonder,
love, joy and enthusiasm all surge up and sweeten his
51
HI NDU MYSTI CS
vision. And all this takes place instantly. Faith,
intellect, and feeling form in a moment one eye, and
the observer observes with scientific accuracy, with
firm faith and with abounding joy.
“ Such God-consciousness grows in vividness and
joy as the mind is concentrated more on it. The
massive doors of the universe are now flung open.
All objects, animate and inanimate, open their inner
sanctuary. The temple doors are suddenly unlocked
and the Deity within shines upon the devout eye of
the observer. Hitherto a thick curtain has hung over
the face of the universe, veiling the wondrous secrets.
Now, the curtain rolls up and the veiled God is imme­
diately unveiled before the clear vision of the devotee.
The observer and the observed, the subject and the
object, the soul and the All-soul, the son and the
Father hitherto stood separated. Now the observer
at once removes the obstruction, pulls down the bar­
rier and advances unimpeded to his God. A Divinity
previously cognised mediately is now perceived imme­
diately. An absent God is now a present God. The
separated two thus stand before each other, face
to face. Then union takes place through spiritual
affinity as they approach and flow into each other.
At first there is mutual attraction, then communion,
then inter-communion, then absorption.
“ Constant intercourse consolidates union and
makes it more and more real and sweet, till at last
the bond of union becomes indissoluble.”
Or, again, and in what Keshub considered a higher
way, union with God is obtained subjectively instead
of objectively. In place of observing Nature the de­
votee finds his way to the unseen through depths of
his inner nature. The process is thus described :
“ All is tranquil and hushed within. Only a sense
of self fills the soul. The devotee calls out to it to
52
S PI RI TUAL ABSORPTION
disappear. And it vanishes away. Then the Infi­
nite bursts upon his view. He shines as something
tremendously real— a burning reality. From the
depths of his being this Presence surges up as the
fountain of reality. From above it descends like a
continual shower of inspiration. From all sides it
draws near as the presence of one who is nearest and
dearest. And the deeper the insight the brighter the
illumination and the sweeter the Presence. The mere
Presence is soon transformed into a Person with In­
telligence, Love and Holiness. As the union ripens
and develops the spirit-bonds become lighter and
more and more of the Infinite is drawn into the finite
soul. Gradually the Almighty overpowers, captivates
and entrances the devotee’s little soul. Father and
Mother, Friend and Guide, Teacher and Saviour,
Comforter and Gladdener are all combined in this
one Person. And if there is any such thing as a
spiritual smile it plays on His lips.”
Such was the spiritual absorption into which Keshub
habituated himself. But his health was failing. His
forty-fifth birthday was celebrated on November 19,
1883, with great pomp and rejoicing. He received
visits from the Bishop of Calcutta, Ramakrishna, and
Davendranath Tagore. And we like to hear that he
still, in spite of very deep differences, looked upon
Davendranath as his spiritual father. He bowed his
head at Davendranath’s feet, and took his hand and
put it on his head as if courting his benediction. On
his side Davendranath lovingly embraced him, and
talked to him of the mercy of the Heavenly Father.
But this proved to be his last birthday celebration.
His illness increased, and in January 1884 he died.
And he died at the top of his fame. Even his most
ardent admirers were astonished at the unexpected
testimony to the esteem in which he was held. From
53
HI NDU MYSTICS
the Queen of England and the Viceroy of India down
to the humblest member of his flock condolences
poured in on his family. And public meetings were
held to commemorate his achievements.
This great tribute from the West as well as from
the East was given to Keshub Chunder Sen. Yet, as
a fact, he had been steadily moving from the teachings
and traditions of the West towards the deeper tradi­
tions and more congenial ways of life and thought of
the East. Shakespeare, and science and English
philosophy so prominent in his youth, faded away in
his middle age. Jesus indeed remained ; for Jesus
was an Asiatic. But in place of the great English
writers had come Chaitanya, the sweet saint of Bengal,
and Ramakrishna, the very personification of all that
was distinctively Indian.
II
RAMAKRISHNA
O n hearing of the death of Keshub, Ramakrishna
was deeply afflicted and said : “ The death of Keshub
has taken half my own life away. He was like a
great banyan tree. He gave comfort and shelter to
thousands of souls. We are so many palm trees
incapable of sheltering a single soul.”
Whether or not the difference between these two
religious geniuses is best expressed by comparing
Keshub to the umbrageous banyan tree and Rama­
krishna to the thin palm tree, the two were very dif­
ferent from one another, yet also with a semblance.
A banyan and a palm, different as they may be, are
both trees—and both tropical trees. Ramakrishnaand
Keshub were both Indians, and both Bengalis and both
tropical in the exuberance of their spiritual growth.
54
RELI GI OUS DRAMA
Unlike Keshub, Ramakrishna was religiously dis­
posed from childhood. He was of the priestly Brah­
min caste. Both his parents were genuinely religious.
And he himself, from his earliest days, showed strong
religious proclivities.
He was bom in February 1836 in the small Ben­
gal village of Kamarpukur. He always had a way­
ward spirit, with strong likes and strong aversions.
But he was a sweet-natured, healthy, intelligent,
vivacious, graceful little boy with great fascination.
Women especially adored him—and evidently did
their best to spoil him. But at the village school he
was beloved by both boys and masters. A highly
attractive boy he must have been—though with a
will of his own, and with these strong aversions. At
school, for instance, and right up into his manhood, he
could not endure mathematics. Such study was
wholly against his grain. On the other hand, he
loved mythological stories from the sacred books and
not only seeing, but acting in sacred dramas.
The performance of religious drama is easier in
India than it is in Europe. There is no need there for
elaborate staging. In those days strolling minstrels
would pass through the villages reciting stories from
the Hindu epics and the Puranas ; and the villagers,
without any stage-setting, would act them. Rama­
krishna would listen with rapt attention and mark
every pose of the actors. And so wonderful was his
memory that he would repeat these dramas almost
verbatim. He would study the lives and characters
of spiritual heroes. And he would gather the folk­
lore of his own and neighbouring villages. Also from
the potters he would learn the art of moulding images
o f gods and goddesses and from the painters he would
learn how to paint them.
65
H I N D U MTSTIOS
This was his real education, and how highly im­
pressionable he was to nature as well as to art is ex­
emplified in the well-known story of the effect upon
him of the sight of a flight of cranes. It is told in
his own w ords:
“ One day, when I was six or seven years old, I
was walking through the rice-fields, and on looking up
I saw a sombre thunder-cloud rapidly spreading over
the whole sky. In front of it flew a flight of snow-
white cranes. And they presented such a beautiful
contrast that my mind wandered off to far away
regions. Lost to outward sense, I fell. And some
people finding me in that plight carried me home in
their arms.”
This was the first of the trances of which an account
has already been given. His people were greatly
alarmed. But he was quite well when he regained
consciousness. And he reassured them that he had
only lost consciousness because his mind had been
overpowered by an inexpressible joy.
Soon he found a new source of pleasure—consorting
with itinerant holy men. The village was situated
on the road to Puri, a great place of pilgrimage. And
pilgrims, wandering monks, and others would frequent
the rest-house which had been built for them. Rama-
krishna loved to go there and hear their prayers and
songs, listen to their stories of the saints, and hear of
the different holy places. He knew of their strange
life, their indifference to bodily pain or pleasure, their
renunciation of the world, their devotion to God, and
their contentment with whatever food was offered
them. And he delighted to hear their religious dis­
cussions, learn their songs, join in their prayers, some­
times even partake of their food, and often assist them
by fetching water and fuel.
56
A HI NDU OP THE HI NDUS
Thus did he, while still very young and as malle­
able as melting wax, have imprinted on him the
ancient traditions of the Hindus. He was bom a
Hindu. He was now growing up and was to remain
for all his life a Hindu of the Hindus. Keshub was
brought up under strong Western influence. But
Bamakrishna in his upbringing had not a trace of
anything but Hindu culture.
Another incident shows his impressionability to this
Hindu culture. He had set out with a party of women
to worship a goddess who was held in great veneration
by the people of a neighbouring village and was singing
songs in praise of the goddess when suddenly he was
overcome with religious emotion, his body became
stiff and motionless, tears rolled down his cheeks, and
he made no response to the frightened women when
they called upon him. Some splashed water in his
face. Others fanned him. There was no result.
Then they called upon the goddess. And after re­
peating her name only a few times the boy showed
signs of returning consciousness. Presentlyhe washim­
self again and no harm seemed to have been done him.
He was now nine. The time had come to invest
him with the holy thread of the Brahmins. He then
became a true Brahmin, and was supposed from hence­
forward to enter a new life—a life of purity and great
restraint. Also he was entitled to worship the family
god, Baghuvir. And this filled him with joy. When
he sat down to worship the god he thought of him not
as a stone figure but as God incarnate—the Creator,
Preserver and Destroyer of the world. And the hours
passed in worship elevated his mind and often brought
him remarkable visions.
One day he was called upon in an emergency to take
the part of the god Shiva in a dramatic performance.
57 e
M.M.
HI NDU MYSTICS
While his friends were dressing him for the role his
mind soared above the ordinary consciousness, so that
when the time came for him to appear his countenance
was grave and he seemed to be the living impersona­
tion of Shiva. He had completely lost himself in the
divine glory. Calm, sweet and oblivious of the pains
and pleasures of the world, the great God appeared
before him as the ideal of serene contemplation.
The boy stood lost in the sublimity of Shiva, dead
to the surrounding world. Some village elders ap­
proached him and found him unconscious. He would
have been taken for dead but for the stream of tears
which fell from his eyes and for the radiance of his
countenance. His friends were alarmed and tried
to restore him, but in vain. The performance had
to be stopped. And he did not recover consciousness
till the next morning.
When questioned about these trances which were
becoming more and more frequent the boy said that
meditation on any deity brought the real form before
his mind, and the emotion evoked thereby caused him
to lose outward consciousness. His mother and rela­
tives were at first much concerned, but his unim­
paired health and bodily vigour gradually set their
minds at ease. And though he was thus overpowered,
there was no interference with his daily routine.
One of his occupations was producing sacred plays.
He passed much of the day in company with a group
of other village boys. Their favourite retreat was a
mango grove. Here, Ramakrishna selected a number
of young boys who could sing and formed them into a
dramatic company ; and they would perform episodes
from the Ramayana or Mahabharata. He would select
the part of each actor and take that of hero for him­
self. His favourite themes were the various incidents
58
SYMP A T HE TI C NATURE
in the life of Krishna, especially his sports with cow­
herds and the milkmaids of Vrindavan. With his
fair complexion and flowing hair, with a garland about
his neck and a flute at his lips, he would take the
part of Krishna himself and he would be overwhelmed
with emotion and fall into frequent trances.
Then, again, he would cheer the women-folk by his
lively and amusing ways. He would act plays forthem
and sing religious songs which he had picked up. His
naturalways andadaptabilitymade them forgethis sex;
and his nature at this time became amazingly feminine.
Often in fun he would go about in the guise of a
girl carrying a water-jug ; and though he walked with
people who knew him from birth they would scarcely
recognize him. And his merriment and jests were
enjoyed by all.
Now, as throughout life, he had an astonishing
capacity for getting inside the very nature of others
—for entering their inmost selves and becoming them
for the time being. It was a capacity for deep in­
sight. And with it went great directness and out­
spokenness. His nature was genuine to a degree, and
he would speak his mind with utter frankness.
He was more serious, too, than appeared. He was
beginning to feel that he was destined to fulfil some
great mission in life. He did not know what. But
the monastic life had a great attraction for him.
Even as early as this, to experience God seemed to
him the only purpose worth holding. If it had not
been for his mother and brothers he would have liked to
renounce everything, take the begging bowl, and fare
forth like the Sadhus of whom he had seen so much.
But he had to do something towards earning a
living. The difficulty was that he could never bring
himself to attend to school teaching. Book learning,
59
HI NDU MYSTICS
apart from the sacred plays, was wholly repugnant to
him. All that could be done for him was to take him
off to Calcutta where he might help his eldest brother
in the performance of his duties as a family priest.
And this indeed he did. He showed great diligence
and conspicuous devotion. Still he would not study,
though he was now seventeen. And when his brother
admonished him he replied : “ Brother, what shall I
do with a mere bread-winning education ? What I
want is that wisdom which will illumine my heart, and
having won which I shall be satisfied for ever.” He
looked about him in the great city and saw everyone
running after the transitory pleasures of the world.
Survival of the fittest was the principle that guided
men. Precious human life was being wasted. Spiri­
tuality was ignored. The holy books were looked
upon as mere superstition. And the education which
was offered Ramakrishna tended in the same direction.
He looked at his brother’s books. He looked at the
scholars. He asked him self: “ Shall I obtain piety
and divine fervour by pursuing this education ? Will
it enable me to be as God-fearing a man as my
father ? Shall I be able to escape from clinging to the
senses ? ” To all of which questions he replied, No.
“ Then what shall I do with this education which
cannot help me to see God or to transcend the miseries
of the world ? I would rather remain ignorant all
my life than throw away my cherished ideals.”
So he said to himself. But it was a hard position
for his eldest brother who, now the father was dead,
was, in the severe Indian fashion, responsible for the
family. And even when two years later he was able
to get for Ramakrishna a position as priest to the
newly erected Dakshineswar temple, Ramakrishna
was not entirely satisfied and was at first averse from
eo
D A K S H I N E S W A R TEMPLE
committing himself even to priestly duties. He was
convinced that there was nothing worth doing ex­
cept conquest of the flesh, renunciation of wealth, and
the attainment of God-consciousness—or, as we might
better express it, direct experience of God. And he
supposed that the ceremonial duties expected of a
priest would not leave him sufficient time or freedom
for this main object of his life. However, arrange­
ments were made by which his nephew, Hriday, would
assist him, and he accepted the position.
The temple is dedicated to the goddess Kali, and is
situated on the banks of the Ganges about four miles
north of Calcutta. And by this sacred river of the
Hindus Ramakrishna was destined to remain for the
rest of his life with only a few brief intervals for pil­
grimage or for recuperation in his native village.
Except perhaps in the Himalaya, a more perfect spot
for leading a spiritual life could hardly be found ; and
Ramakrishna availed himself of it to the full. Much
of his time was spent in worship of the goddess, but
much also in meditation in a grove close by the temple
and in the temple garden. In addition, he had op­
portunities of converse with those who came to wor­
ship and with itinerant monks who came to enjoy the
hospitality of the temple. And we Europeans must
remember that the hot, humid atmosphere of Bengal,
enervating and exhausting as it must be to us, is to
the Bengalis exceedingly well adapted for commune
with nature. It is not so scorchingly hot as is the hot
weather of Northern India. Nor is it so piercingly
cold in the cold weather. Life can be lived in the
open air all the year round. All the year round the
vegetation is beautiful. And ever rolling by were the
majestic waters of the Ganges, impressive enough even
to a stranger but full of inspiration to a Hindu.
61
HI NDU MYSTICS
Here was Ramakrishna installed for life. And it
was soon observed that his mode of worship of the
goddess differed from that of the ordinary Brahmin.
He would look upon the image as the veritable repre­
sentation of God and treat it as such. When he seated
himself for worship a veil of oblivion would separate
him from the rest of the world. He would be wholly un­
conscious of those attending the service. Sometimes he
would sit motionless for hours ; and it would be with
difficulty that he could be recalled to ordinary con­
sciousness. While uttering the various mantras he
would distinctly see those phenomena which to the
ordinary priest were but phantoms of the imagination.
Thus while chanting the mystic syllable Rang which
directed the priest to conceive of a wall of fire around
him, Ramakrishna would really feel himselfin themidst
of a circle of fire guarding him from all evil influence.
Again, he would actually feel the mystic power
called the Kundalini, or “ the coiled up,” rushing from
its place of rest at the lower extremity of the spinal
column, along the spinal cord to the thousand-petalled
lotus of the brain. The radiant glow of his face at the
time of worship, his deep concentration and the atmo­
sphere of purity about him suggested to the onlookers
the idea that the very spirit of Brahmanahood was
being manifested there before their eyes. No one had
ever before seen such intensity of devotion.
Besides this worship in the temple Ramakrishna
spent long hours in meditation. His friends were
troubled by his love for solitude and growing indiffer­
ence to the world. Instead of taking part in the
festivities of the temple he would pass his leisure
hours in the groves, sitting silent under a tree far away
from the bustle of life. Worse still, he would take
solitary walks in the quiet of the early morning along
62
R E NU N C I A T I O N
the banks of the Ganges. And worst of all, he would
disappear at night. What he did then no one knew,
so his nephew followed him once to see. He found he
went into the grove. At first Hriday dared not dis­
turb him there. Eventually he summoned up courage
and entered the jungle, and was startled to find Rama-
krishna under a tree in deep meditation, and without
clothes or the sacred thread. He asked him why he
had thus given up his clothes and the sacred thread.
There was no response. He might as well have ad­
dressed a statue. But when Ramakrishna returned
to ordinary consciousness he told Hriday that one
should be free of all ties in thinking of God. The
sacred thread meant that he was a Brahmin, and there­
fore superior to all. When calling upon the Mother
one must set such ideas aside. A remarkable speech
for a Brahmin to make.
And at this time he was deeply affected by the
death of his eldest brother. He was young when his
father had died, so did not much feel it. But he had
been very deeply moved when he was a little older by
the death of a brother’s wife. He was of an exception­
ally affectionate nature. These domestic afflictions
hurt him cruelly. And the last happened to come at
a time when he was in a state of spiritual upheaval.
He had been impressed with the transitory nature of
the phenomenal world. And he was wanting to
devote all his energies to the search for something
that was real and imperishable. He was convinced
that man could transcend the miseries and evils of life
only by reaching the sweet perennial fountain of all
bliss; and his yearnings to experience God were be­
coming insistent. While those about him were
wasting time in all kinds of frivolity he was burning
day and night with a consuming thirst for God.
63
HI NDU MYSTICS
Kali had now become his favourite deity. Every
day at the time of worship he would decorate her
image with flowers and sandal-paste. This image was
a rare piece of sculpture with its lovely figure and
divine expression. She was arrayed in a gorgeous
robe of gold brocade and decorated with precious
ornaments from head to foot. From her neck hung
a garland of skulls and round her waist was a girdle
of human arms, made of gold. In her lower arms
(she had two right arms and two left arms) she held
a decapitated human head—also made of gold— and
in the upper a sword. With her lower right hand she
offered boons to her devotees. With the upper she
symbolised, “ Fear nothing.” The skulls and the
sword represented her terrible side. And her right
hand offered boons and fearlessness. And to Rama-
krishna the image was not inert stone : it was the
Mother herself—the Mother, like Nature, both terrible
and sweet, alternately destroying and creating.
This was the goddess whom Ramakrishna wor­
shipped. The Preserver as well as the Destroyer.
And to him she was always the loving Mother. Full
of power, but also of motherly solicitude, and sweet
and tender. The Mother, who with loving care pro­
tected her devotees from harm. And to her he offered
a whole-souled devotion, regarding her as the only
true guide in times of doubt and darkness. Thus the
vision of the Divine Mother became the one passion
of his life. This was how he would experience God.
But he had a strange way of worshipping. The
singing of devotional songs was one of its features.
These seemed to open the flood-gates of his heart and
he would weep like a child separated from its mother,
and cry : “ Oh ! Mother, where are thou ? Am I a
wretch, that thou dost not reveal thyself to me ?
64
SUFFERI NG
Wealth, pleasures, friends I want not. Only thee,
Mother, do I desire.” He would rub his face against
the ground in his agony. And in the evenings he
would cry : “ Another day of this short life has passed
and still I have not realized the Truth. Another day
is spent in vain, Mother, for I have not seen thee.”
His plaintive cries would attract people and move
them to tears, and they would whisper : “ Poor young
man ! Has he really lost his mother ? ”
“ Oh ! what days of suffering I passed through,”
said Ramakrishna, years afterwards. “ I knew that
the Mother, full of a bliss compared with which all
earthly possessions were as nothing, was then quite
close to me. So how could I be satisfied with any­
thing else ? I had to seek her. And I became mad
for her.”
People did indeed think that he was really becoming
mad. He was ridiculed at first. But even though
they regarded him as unbalanced they respected and
admired him on account of his steady devotion. As
for Ramakrishna himself he was quite indifferent to
what people said. He directed all his energies to the
great goal he had set himself. And in time his de­
votion had its reward. The longed-for vision came.
“ I was suffering excruciating pain because I had
not been blessed with a vision of the Mother. I felt
as if my heart was being squeezed like a wet towel.
I could not bear the separation any longer. Life did
not seem worth living. Suddenly my eyes fell on the
sword that was kept in the temple. Determined to
put an end to my life, I jumped like a madman and
seized it, when suddenly the blessed Mother revealed
herself to me, and I fell unconscious on the floor.
What happened externally after that I do not know.
But within me there was a steady flow of undiluted
65
HI NDU MYSTI CS
bliss, altogether new. I was feeling the presence of
the Divine Mother.”
Another description he gave of the same experience
was th is:
“ The buildings with their different parts, the
temple and all vanished from my sight, leaving no
trace whatever. In their stead was a limitless, in­
finite, effulgent ocean of Spirit. As far as the eye
could reach, its shining billows were madly rushing to­
wards me with a terrific noise. In the twinkling of an
eye they were on me. I was completely engulfed.
I panted for breath and fell down unconscious.”
As soon as he regained consciousness he called aloud,
“ Mother, Mother.”
Thus at last did he gain his heart’s desire. And it
is to be noted that it was his tremendous faith, his
intense conviction that God alone was the source of
bliss, that carried him through and sustained him in
all his trials and afflictions. Without a teacher or
helper, with no great knowledge of the Scriptures, and
even without passing through the usual course of
asceticism he obtained the vision.
Bamakrishna had realized his ambition. He might
now have been content. But he was still unsatisfied.
His constant prayer was for a repetition of the vision.
He would roll on the ground, crying : “ Mother, be
gracious unto me. Reveal thyself once more.” So
bitterly would he cry that people would gather about
him to see what was the matter. He said afterwards
that he scarcely realized their presence, they looked
more like shadows or painted pictures than real
objects; and he did not feel at all abashed at dis­
playing his feelings before them.
“ But the moment I lost outward consciousness,”
66
VI S I ON
he said, “ in a paroxysm of pain at separation from
the Mother, I would find her standing before me in
her matchless radiant form, granting boons to her
devotees and bidding them be of good cheer. I used
to see her smiling, talking, consoling, or teaching me
in various ways.”
Though he now lived in the world, he belonged in
reality to another realm and held communion with
strange, invisible beings. He was often seen con­
versing with the stone image of Kali as if it were really
conscious. And people naturally thought him mad.
As his experience deepened, the vision of the Mother
became continuous. Formerly, at the time of medi­
tation he with difficulty gained a glimpse of her
beautiful hand, feet or face. Now he saw her entire
form as she spoke to him and directed him in his day’s
work. Formerly, he regarded the stone image of Kali
as possessed of consciousness. Now the image disap­
peared and in its stead there stood the Living Mother
herself, smiling, and blessing him. “ I actually felt
her breath on my hand,” said Ramakrishna, “ though
at night when the room was lighted I never saw her
divine form cast any shadow on the walls, however
closely I looked.”
His nephew Hriday has told of Ramakrishna’s acts
at this time.
“ Whenever I entered the temple,” he says, “ I
would feel a thrill, especially when my uncle was
worshipping, as though there were a living Presence
there. I used to watch him, and his strange manner
of worship filled me with wonder and reverence,
though I often questioned his sanity, for his actions
were contrary to the Shastras. With eyes and chest
flushed, he would move like a drunkard to the throne
of the goddess, touch her chin as a sign of endear-
67
HI NDU MYSTICS
ment, and begin to sing; or, taking the image by
the hand he would talk, joke, laugh and even dance.
Again, at the time of worship he would become so
deeply absorbed in meditation that there would be
no sign of external consciousness.”
During this period of divine madness he could not
bear to associate with ordinary men of the w orld;
but he loved to be with devotees and join with them
in their worship and song. And occasionally he
would visit neighbouring temples.
His eccentricities were, however, causing much con­
cern to the lady who had built the temple, and to her
son-in-law who managed her affairs. They were de­
voted to Ramakrishna ; but they feared for his mind,
and thought a deviation from the rigid observance of
continence might be beneficial to him. So they hired
two women of ill-fame to enter his room and tempt
him. But the moment he saw them he fled for shelter
to the goddess. His chastity must never be sullied.
His mother also had now become distressed at his
behaviour. She heard that it was to all intents and
purposes like a madman’s. She thought that in the
country his strained nerves might be soothed. And
she invited him back to his village. He obeyed her
call. But he was gloomy and sad. His former com­
panions had no more interest for him. His buoyancy
had left him. And he used to frequent the cremation
grounds, which in India are regarded as sacred, and
there he would spend whole days and a great part of
the night in worship and meditation.
He was now twenty-three and his mother and elder
brother planned a marriage for him. Once married,
his mind would not soar so high. And the responsi­
bility of maintaining a family would steady him. A
young girl was found—young indeed, for she was only
68
I M P R E S S I O N A B I L I T Y
five years old—and he was married to her forthwith,
though the marriage ceremony did not amount to
much more than a betrothal; and it was not for some
years later that she came to live with Ramakrishna
at Dakshineswar.
He stayed for about two years at his native village
of Kamarpukur. Then, perhaps urged by the poverty
at home, he took leave of his aged mother and
struggling brother and young wife and returned to
Dakshineswar.
There, in 1861, he again took charge of the worship
of Kali and was immediately plunged anew into the
intoxication and madness of communion with God.
Again he felt the same repugnance to all worldly
matters. Again he prayed and meditated day and
night. And again he felt those painful burning
sensations of the body and suffered the same insomnia.
“ Oh, through what states of mind I passed in
those days,” he afterwards said, “ the slightest im­
pression from outside stirred the depths of my spirit.
Even a street girl appeared to me as Sita going to
greet her victorious husband. An English lad stand­
ing cross-legged against a tree brought me to the
thought of Krishna and I sank into deep meditation.
The idea of caste lost all meaning to me. I would
eat food cooked by low-caste people. In the grove I
would sit, in deep meditation, with my body per­
fectly still, and lose all consciousness of the outside
world. Birds would perch on my head. Often snakes
would crawl over my motionless body. The ordinary
man would not be able to bear a fraction of the
tremendous fervour I felt. His body would be shat­
tered by a quarter of the emotion. Only by seeing
the Mother in some form or other could I forget my
indescribable pangs. Without that vision my body
could not have survived.”
09
HI NDU MYSTICS
Now he entered a new phase. A remarkable woman
came to Dakshineswar. She was a Sannyasini of high
spiritual attainments. He called her the Brahmini.
She assured him that it was because people did not
understand his blessed state that they called him mad.
And this greatly comforted him. The relationship of
mother to son sprang up between them. Both passed
a great part of the day in the grove in religious con­
versation. And his questions about his various spiri­
tual experiences she would be able to answer because
she had dived deep into the Scriptures and could quote
the authority of similar experiences by previous seekers
after truth.
Every day he would go into a trance, as they talked
on spiritual matters. And from this loss of outward
consciousness, from his ecstasies during the singing,
and from various other symptoms she was convinced
that he had scaled the loftiest heights of the spirit.
She found a strange analogy between his life and the
life of Chaitanya. Both had experienced the same
tempest of divine emotion raging in their souls.
Hitherto Ramakrishna had strictly avoided associa­
tion with women. Now he actually accepted the
Brahmini as his guru—his spiritual guide—in practis­
ing a difficult course of Tantrika spiritual exercise.
The Tantras teach the motherhood of God and the
glorification of woman. The woman’s body was
looked upon as sacred, and the woman was treated
with reverence, as a goddess in whom the Mother of
the Universe was manifested. The attraction be­
tween a lover and his beloved was taken as an example
to emulate in the search for God.
Ramakrishna began his new course only after he had
sought and received the permission of the Divine
Mother. Then he placed himself in the hands of the
70
E X P E R I E N C E OP GOD
Brahmini and she put him through all the prescribed
exercises.
“ At nightfall she would ask me to come to one
of the seats. I would go, and after performing the
worship of the Mother Kali, begin to meditate accord­
ing to her directions. But as soon as I began to tell
my beads I would be overwhelmed by divine fervour
and fall into a trance. Wonderful visions I would
have. Some of the exercises were so dangerous that
a devotee might lose his footing and sink into moral
depravity. But by the infinite grace of the Mother
I was brought through unscathed.”
These Tantrika rites tested his self-control to the
full. But the impression they made on his mind was
always one of divine bliss unalloyed by any worldly
taint. To him there remained no evil as he floated in
a limitless ocean of divine beatitude.
“ Something rises with a tingling sensation from
the feet to the head,” he says. “ So long as it does
not reach the brain I remain conscious; but the
moment it touches the brain I am dead to the outside
world. I try to relate what I feel when it goes be­
yond the throat, but as soon as I think it over, up
goes the mind with a bound and there is an end of
the matter.”
Ramakrishna had again experienced God. And
now devotees would come to Dakshineswar and ex­
change ideas with him. The tale of his tremendous
experiences would fire them also. Spiritual fervour
is contagious in the extreme. And they would wish
to catch it from him. His holiness, his unspeakable
blissfulness, his unstudied wisdom, his childlike peace­
fulness, his affection towards all men, and his con­
suming love of God deeply impressed men. And he
would guide each along his respective path. Like
71
HI NDU MYSTICS
all great teachers he would not upset their modes of
thought or try to make them think alike. He would
supplement but not supplant. Each should be de­
voted to his own ideal. Each should have sympathy
for all others.
Not content with receiving devotees, Ramakrishna
would also go forth to find other seekers after God and
ascertain how far they had progressed towards their
goal. Usually devotees are satisfied if they have ex­
perienced God in one aspect. Ramakrishna yearned
to know him in every aspect. Nothing fully satisfied
him. His whole life was spent in seeking God and
experiencing Him in different aspects.
Now he wished to experience God in the relation of
parent to child and of a girl to her lover. And while
he practised these forms of worship he became pos­
sessed with the idea that he was a woman. His
inherent tenderness was a help to him. And he would
so forget his masculine nature, and his speech and
gestures would so resemble a woman’s, that the women
of the household of the owner of the temple would
accept him as one of themselves. He would feel the
love of a mother for her child.
Then he took up the highest form of Vaishna wor­
ship—the relation between a maiden and her lover,
in this worship, as the devotee becomes more intimate
with the object of his adoration only the sweetness of
the relation interests him. The devotee thinks of his
Beloved with the same intensity with which a maiden
dwells on the charms of her lover. As the maiden
pursues her object with the whole energy of her soul
and is happy only when she has attained her end, so
also should the devotee pursue God. This is the
phase of spiritual practice developed by Chaitanya
and now to be practised by Ramakrishna.
72
N I R V I K A L P A SAMADHI
A beautiful expression of this is found in the Vrin-
davan episode in Krishna’s life, when the milkmaids
of Vrindavan were madly in love- with Krishna, the
embodiment of beauty of every kind. They sought no
personal ends, they cared not for their own happiness.
Their one object was to please Krishna.
When Ramakrishna had decided to undertake this
spiritual exercise he borrowed a complete outfit of
women’s clothing and impersonated a Gopi—a milk­
maid— of Vrindavan madly in love with Krishna.
And he spent six months in this state, at no time
lapsing from the part he had assumed.
What is considered by most Hindus as the highest
spiritual experience of all, namely, the Nirvikalpa
Samadhi, now came to Ramakrishna. It did not,
however, come to him naturally and spontaneously as
so many other of his spiritual experiences had come
to him. He was “ initiated ” into it by a guru.
There came to the garden of Dakshineswar, in about
the year 1866, an itinerant monk noted for his experi­
ence of Brahma. He was believed to be a Punjabi
by birth and had renounced the world while still
young. For a time he had belonged to a monastery
of the Nago sect at Ludhiama in the Punjab— a sect
which is renowned for their austerity and power of
endurance. He was tall and of robust constitution,
and had always led an out-of-door life. Like other
members of his sect he considered fire particularly
sacred. Wherever he might be he would keep a
lighted fire by him. In the dead of night he would
brighten the fire, and taking his seat by it, sink into
deep meditation. All he possessed was a water-pot,
a pair of tongs, a skin to sit on, and the sheet in which
his body was wrapped.
He seems to have studied the Vedanta and he had
M
.K
. 73 F
HI N D U MYSTICS
received spiritual instructions from his guru at a very
early age. Man since birth is fettered by shame,hatred,
fear, caste, pedigree, honour, etc. He was taught
to rid himself of these impediments, little by little.
Then he had wandered forth and practised spiritual
exercises on the banks of the sacred river Nerbudda
till, after a rigid discipline extending over forty years,
he had at last attained to the Nirvikalpa Samadhi.
Then he set out to visit the sacred places of India.
He had already been to Puri and Gangasagar, and on
his return journey along the Ganges halted at
Dakshineswar.
There he noticed Ramakrishna, seated in an ab­
stracted mood, and his bright face at once attracted
his attention. He asked Ramakrishna whether he
would like to learn Vedanta. Ramakrishna said he
must first ask the Mother ; and her permission having
been obtained he returned to Totapuri. Totapuri
then told him that he must give up the insignia of his
present state of life, such as the sacred thread and the
hair-tuft which marked him as a Brahmin. He must
begin a new life. In the last half-hour of the night
guru and disciple entered the meditation room. The
guru chanted the holy mantras and the disciple re­
peated them as he put oblations one after another into
the sacred fire, renouncing as he did so all desire for
enjoyment, here and hereafter, and giving assurance
of safety to all creatures. After the burning of the
hair-tuft and the sacred thread, Ramakrishna ac­
cepted from his guru the emblems of a new life, the
loin-cloth and the ochre-robe.
Then, prostrating himself before his guru, Rama­
krishna took his seat to receive instruction.
“ Brahman is the only R eality/’ said Totapuri,
74
HIGHEST S PI RI TUAL E X P E RI E NC E
“ beyond the limits of time, space and causation.
When a seeker is merged in the beatitude of Samadhi
he does not perceive time or space or form. Pierce
through the maze of name and form. Dive deep
in the search for self and be firmly established in it
through Samadhi. You will then find the world of
name and form vanishing into nothing, and the puny
ego merging into the cosmic consciousness. You will
realize your identity with Brahman.”
All that day he argued with Ramakrishna and tried
to persuade him to withdraw the mind completely
from all objects and dive into the Atman—the Uni­
versal Soul. But try as he would Ramakrishna could
not cross the realm of name and form and bring his
mind to the unconditioned state. He could withdraw
it from all objects except the all too familiar form of
the Blissful Mother which appeared before him as a
living reality preventing him from passing beyond the
realm of name and form. In despair he said to the
guru, “ It is hopeless. I cannot raise my mind to the
unconditioned state.”
“ W hat! You can’t do i t ! But you have to,”
said the guru sharply, and finding a piece of glass he
pressed the point between Ramakrishna’s eyebrows
and told him to concentrate his mind on that point.
“ With a stem determination,” relates Rama­
krishna, “ I again set to meditate and as soon as the
gracious form of the Divine Mother appeared before
me, I used my discrimination as a sword and severed
it in two. There remained no more obstructions to
my mind. It at once soared beyond the relative
plane. And I lost myself in Samadhi.”
Thus far is Ramakrishna’s own account of his great
experience. His biographers say that he then passed
75
HI NDU MYSTICS
into the ineffable glory of Nirvakalpa Samadhi. In
that rapture his senses and mind stopped their
function. The body became motionless as a corpse.
The universe rolled away from his vision. Even space
melted away. Everything was reduced to ideas,
which floated like shadows in the dim background of
his mind. Only the faint consciousness of “ I ” re­
peated itself in dull monotony. Presently that too
stopped, and what remained was existence alone. The
sold had lost itself in the Self and all ideas of duality,
of subject and object, had been effaced. Beyond
speech, beyond experience, and beyond thought he had
experienced the Brahman—he had become the
Brahman.
Totapuri sat for long watching his disciple. Find­
ing him absolutely motionless he stole out of the room,
locking the door behind lest anyone should intrude.
Then he waited a call from Ramakrishna. But none
came. Day passed into night, and no call reached
him. Three days went by and still there was no call.
Alarmed at this silence Totapuri opened the door and
entered. And there sat Ramakrishna, in the very
same position as he was in when he left him. In the
body there was no sign of life. But the countenance
was serene and radiant. The disciple was dead to
the objective world. His mind was absorbed in the
Self, without a flicker—absolutely steady.
In breathless wonder Totapuri gazed at his disciple.
“ Is it really true ? ” he said to himself. “ Is it pos­
sible that this man in a single day has attained to
that which it took me forty years of strenuous practice
to achieve ? ” In an access of joy he cried, “ Great
God, it is nothing short of a m iracle! ”
Then he took steps to bring the mind of Rama­
krishna back to the world. The little room in the grove
76
THE SUPREME BEI NG
rang with the holy mantra, Hari Om, uttered in deep
and solemn tones. Little hy little Ramakrishna re­
turned to consciousness. He opened his eyes and saw
his guru tenderly watching him. And the guru re­
plied by locking him in his embrace.
“ When the Supreme Being is thought of as in­
active—not creating, sustaining or destroying—I call
Him Brahman the Impersonal God,” said Rama­
krishna. “ When I think of Him as active—creating,
sustaining, and destroying— I call Him the Personal
God. But really the distinction between an Imper­
sonal and a Personal God is a distinction without a
difference. The Impersonal and the Personal are one
and the same Being, even as milk and its white­
ness. They are one like the gem and its lustre.
Similar is the relation between Brahman and the
Divine Mother.”
Referring to this period he used to say:
“ For six months at a stretch I remained in that
state from which ordinary men can never return.
After three weeks the body fell off like a sere leaf.
I was not conscious of day or night. Flies would
enter my mouth and nostrils just as they would in a
dead body, but I did not feel them. If it were not
for the ministrations of a monk my body could not
have survived. He understood my state of m ind:
he also realized that my body must be kept alive
at all costs, as it was meant to do great good in the
world. So he would bring food regularly, and even
if he had to beat me with a stick he would try to
bring my mind back. As soon as he found me a
little conscious he would press food into my mouth.
But only a little would reach my stomach, and there
were days in which all efforts would fail. At last I
received the Mother’s command: ‘ Remain on the
threshold of relative consciousness for the sake of
77
HI NDU MYSTICS
humanity.’ Then I was laid up with a terrible attack
of dysentery. An excruciating pain in the stomach
tortured me day and night. Only gradually did I
become a normal man. But before I did my mind,
on the slightest provocation, would fly back again
and merge in Nirvikalpa Samadhi.”
It was now eight years since he had been back to
his native village, Kamarpukur ; and it was thought
that a change would improve his health. So in May
1867 he returned there accompanied by his nephew,
Hriday, and by the Brahmini, his former woman
guru. Here he stayed for six or seven months, and
it is a relief to hear from his biographers of signs of
common human nature after the strained life he had
now for many years been leading. He found, we are
told, relaxation by entering into the joys and sorrows
of the simple village folk. Also he sent for his wife.
The last time he had seen her she was seven years
old—too young to understand her position. Now she
was fourteen. And after a few days’ stay with him
she was eager to serve him with all her love and de­
votion. He on his part began to train her in spiritual
matters and took special care that she had an all-
round training in the discharge of her household
duties, in making good use of money, and above all,
in behaving according to circumstances, relying solely
upon God.
This development, however, disturbed the equani­
mity of the Brahmini. And here again we see some
human nature. We are told that, though she was
highly advanced spiritually she had not attained per­
fection. Already she had been greatly put out at
Ramakrishna’s acceptance of Totapuri as guru. She
could not bear to see Ramakrishna associate with
any other teacher or devotee. As one who had
78
WI TH MOSLEMS
taught Ramakrishna she came to consider herself a
supremely important personage whom everyone must
either obey or be accursed. And now she did not take
at all kindly to the idea of Ramakrishna’s doing his
duty to his wife. Perhaps she feared this would en­
danger his celibate life. Ramakrishna instructed his
wife to look upon her as her own mother-in-law and
serve her with love and respect. But the Brahmini
grew very peevish and often rebuked the ladies of the
household. The position soon became intolerable.
This she herself came to recognize and then her re­
morse was keen. One day she approached Ramak-
rishna with sandal-paste and garlands of flowers,
adorned him with these as an Incarnation of Sri
Gauranga, implored his forgiveness and bade farewell.
Ramakrishna’s health being restored he returned
with Hriday to Dakshineswar. And by this time, as
a result of his spiritual experiences, his mind had
acquired a wonderful breadth, so that he accepted the
different forms of religion as so many ways of reaching
perfection.
A former Hindu having been attracted by the spirit
of universal brotherhood obtaining in Islam, had
become a Moslem. He was a lover of God and prob­
ably a Sufi. He had now taken up his residence at
Dakshineswar and his devotion soon attracted the
notice of Ramakrishna, who argued to himself that,
since Islam was also a way to experiencing God, he
would see how God blessed devotees who worshipped
Him that way. He decided, therefore, to be initiated
by this man, Govinda by name, and become for the
time being a Moslem. And while he was practising
the Islamic faith he lived outside the temple pre­
cincts and was willing to eat Moslem food, though he
was persuaded by his Hindu friends to be content
79
HI N D U MYSTICS
with having it cooked by a Brahmin under the
direction of a Moslem.
“ I used to repeat the name of Allah,” says Rama-
krishna, “ wear my cloth in the fashion of the Mos­
lems and recite the Namaz regularly. All Hindu
ideas being wholly banished from my mind, not only
did I not salute the Hindu gods, but I had no in­
clination even to visit them. And after three months
I realized the goal of that form of devotion.”
First of all he saw a radiant Person with a long
beard and of grave appearance, and then his mind,
passing through the experience of the Brahman with
attributes, was finally absorbed in the Brahman
without attributes.
Christianity also he practised. A certain man
named Sambhu who, though not a Christian had
studied the Bible, used to talk to Ramakrishna about
Christ and Christianity. One day, in the year 1874,
Ramakrishna was in a garden-house, on the walls of
which were many beautiful portraits, one of which
was of Christ. While he was looking attentively at
the picture of the Madonna and Child and reflecting
on the wonderful life of Christ, he came to feel as
though the picture were animated. Rays of light were
emanating from the figures of Mary and Christ and,
entering into him, altogether changed his outlook.
When he realised that his Hindu ideas were being
pushed into a comer by this onrush of new ideas he
tried his best to stop it. He eagerly prayed to the
Divine Mother (K ali): “ What is it thou art doing to
me, Mother ? ” But in vain. His love for the Hindu
gods was swept away by this tidal wave. In its
stead a deep regard for Christ and the Christian
Church filled his heart and opened to his eyes the
80
VI S I ON OP CHRIST
vision of Christian devotees burning incense and
candles before the vision of Jesus and offering unto
Him the eager outpourings of their hearts. Returning
to Dakshineswar temple he was so engrossed in these
thoughts that he forgot to visit Kali.
For three days these ideas held sway. On the
fourth day he was walking in the grove when he sud­
denly saw an extraordinary-looking person of serene
aspect approaching, with his gaze intently fixed on
him. He knew him at once to be a man of foreign
extraction. He had large, beautiful eyes, and, though
the nose was different from an Indian’s, it in no way
marred the comeliness of his face. Ramakrishna was
charmed, and wondered who it might be. Presently
the figure drew near. Then, from the inmost recesses
of Ramakrishna’s heart there went up the note,
“ This is the Christ who poured out His heart’s blood
for the redemption of mankind and suffered agonies
for its sake. It is none else than that Master-Yogin,
Jesus, the embodiment of Love.”
Then the Son of Man embraced Ramakrishna and
became merged in him. Ramakrishna lost outward
consciousness in Samadhi and experienced his union
with the Brahman with attributes.
After some time he came back to normal conscious­
ness and was convinced that Jesus Christ was an
Incarnation of the Lord.
About Buddha he shared the general notion of the
Hindus that he was an Incarnation of God, and used
to offer him his sincere devotion and worship.
Early in 1868 he started with a party to what is now
the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh. He was
greatly distressed, and shed tears at the abject con­
dition of the people and sat with the poor villagers till,
at the sight of his compassion, his friends ordered food
81
HI N D U MYSTICS
to be distributed. As he approached Benares he had
a strange vision. The sacred city actually appeared
to him to be made of gold as it is described in the
sacred books. From Benares the party moved to
Allahabad, where all bathed in the sacred confluence
of the Ganges and Jumna. Then they went to Vrin-
davan, so rich in sweet memories of Krishna, and tears
rolled from their eyes. After visiting Muttra they
returned to Calcutta.
Ramakrishna’s wife had not accompanied him when
he had returned to Dakshinswar. She had gone back
to her father’s house. But in 1872 she and her
father set out for Dakshineswar. Convinced after
a few days that his attitude towards her was un­
changed, she decided to remain and give herself over
to his and his mother’s service. And she lived with
his mother, who had for some years resided at
Dakshineswar.
In May, on an auspicious night for the worship of
Kali, he made special arrangements for the worship
in his own room and asked his wife to be present. He
took his own seat and then beckoned her to the seat
which was reserved for the goddess. In a semi-con­
scious state she reverently watched the proceedings
and took the seat. During the ceremony she went
into Samadhi. Ramakrishna also, when he had fin­
ished the mantra, fell into a trance. Priest and
goddess were joined in a transcendental union in the
Self. Hours passed. At dead of night he partially
recovered consciousness. And then he surrendered
himself and the fruits of his life’s spiritual exercises
at the feet of his wife, and reverently saluted her.
In the worshop of Woman his series of spiritual
exercises reached their consummation. He had dedi­
cated his all to the Mother of the Universe manifested
82
w i f e ’ s e x p e r i e n c e
through the living symbol of his wife. In his vision
everything in the universe became a symbol of God.
His wife continued for a time to live at Dakshine-
swar, and has thus spoken of her experience :
“ I have no words to describe my wonderful exalta­
tion of spirit as I watched him in different states.
Under the influence of divine emotion he would some­
times talk on abstruse subjects, sometimes laugh,
sometimes weep. Or again, he would become motion­
less in Samadhi. This would continue through the
night. There was such an extraordinarily divine
Presence in him that I used to shake with fear and
wonder how I could survive the night. Then he
discovered that I had to keep awake the whole night
lest he should go into Samadhi and he asked me to
sleep in another room.”
One night, finding his wife asleep by his side, he said
to him self: “ Here is a woman’s body which the
world holds dear. But he who takes pleasure in it
is confined to the body and cannot experience God.
Tell me frankly whether you want this or God. If
the former, then here it is.” His purified mind an­
swered the question by plunging into a Samadhi so
deep that it lasted the rest of the night.
Months passed in this way, but not once did their
minds come down to the plane of sense. And Rama-
krishna used to say, that after marriage he anxiously
prayed to Kali to root out all sense of physical enjoy­
ment from her mind ; and that his prayer had been
granted he knew from contact with her at this period.
When, after the lapse of a year or more Rama-
krishna felt not the least trace of a body-idea in his
mind, and continued to look upon his wife as the mani­
festation of Kali and sometimes as the Atman or
83
HI NDU MYSTICS
Brahman, he understood that Kali had brought him
successfully through the ordeal, and that, through her
grace his mind was able to remain without any effort
on his part on the highest plane of spiritual realization.
And at the end of 1873 his wife returned to her village.
It was two years later that the meeting with Keshub
took place, of which a description has already been
given. And his personal appearance at that time has
been thus described. He was of dark complexion and
wore a beard. His eyes never opened very wide and
were introspective. He was of medium height, slen­
der almost to leanness, and very frail-looking. He
had an excessively nervous temperament and was
acutely sensitive. He spoke in very plain Bengali
with a slight but pleasing stammer.
So far he had thought chiefly of his own spiritual
development. But now, having attained the acme of
individual personal development, a remarkable change
took place in him. He began to think not so much of
himself as of others. What he had himself enjoyed
he wanted others to share. He had no such urge as
had come to Keshub to go all over India preaching—
or even to go as far as Calcutta only four miles off.
But there did arise in his mind a tremendous longing
to pass on his experiences to a few devotees. “ There
is no limit to the yearning I had then,” he afterwards
said. “ I looked forward wistfully to the day when
my beloved companions would come. I hoped to find
solace by conversing with them and telling them of my
experiences. A mother has never longed so intensely
for the sight of her child, nor a lover for his sweetheart,
as I did for them.” But it is noticeable that he was
not to go to them : they were to come to him.
Shortly, the devotees began to come. In 1880,
came a young man who afterwards as Swami Vive-
84
YOUTH OF V I V E K E N A N D A
kenanda was to become his most famous disciple.
And an account of his life will show how Ramakrishna
carried out the new object he now had in view.
I ll
VIVEKENANDA
Sw a m i V iv e k e n a n d a ’s original name was Narendra
Nath, and at the time he met Ramakrishna he was
one of the most brilliant members of the Brahmo
Somaj. He was bom in 1863. He was keen-minded
and of great vigour, both of intellect and body. But
he was also endowed with a deep religious disposition.
Even as a child he would purchase clay images of
gods and play at meditation before them. Later on
meditation became his favourite occupation and, un­
known to others, he used to spend a great part of
the night in this way.
As a young man he acquired great power in debate.
In society he was a brilliant though somewhat caustic
conversationalist, free and unconventional in manner ;
somewhat peremptory but vibrant and sensitive. In
his college days he had drunk freely of Western philo­
sophy but had been shocked by its, supposedly,
agnostic doctrines. He believed that the creed of
Universal Reason called on him to suppress the yearn­
ings of his artist nature. But his senses were acute,
his passions imperious, his susceptibilities tender, and
to suppress these was to kill himself. A pale, blood­
less reason could not save him in the hour of tempta­
tion. He wanted a flesh and blood reality, a hand
to save and uplift—in short, a guru or master who,
by embodying perfection, would fulfil the yearning in
his soul. He had approached Davendranath Tagore
and asked him if he had seen God. But the answer
85
HI NDU MYSTICS
he received did not satisfy him. And it was at this
critical point, when he was seventeen years of age,
that he met Ramakrishna, then forty-four, at the
house of a friend in Calcutta.
He sang a few songs, and Ramakrishna became
keenly interested in him, found out all about him, and
invited him to visit Dakshineswar at an early date.
Vivekenanda passed the examination for which he
had at that time been preparing. And his stubborn
refusal to marry having convinced a cousin of his of
the sincerity of his religious disposition this cousin
tookhim to Dakshineswar to see Ramakrishna. It was
a momentous meeting. And fortunately both Rama­
krishna and Vivekenanda have left accounts of it.
“ He seemed careless about his body and dress,”
says Ramakrishna. “ His eyes bespoke an intro­
spective mind as if part of it were always concen­
trated upon something within. I was surprised to
find so spiritual a man coming from the material
atmosphere of Calcutta. He sang a few Bengali songs
at my request. They were the spontaneous outpour­
ings of a devout heart desiring union with the Self.
And he put such pathos into the song that I could
not control myself, and fell into an ecstasy.”
“ I sang the song,” says Vivekenanda, “ but shortly
after he suddenly rose, and taking me by the hand
he led me to the verandah, and shut the door behind
him so that we were alone. Then, to my surprise,
he began to shed tears of joy as he held my hand,
and addressing me as one long familiar to him, said :
‘ Ah, you come so late ! How could you be so unkind
as to keep me waiting so long. My ears are wellnigh
burnt through listening to the profane talk of worldly
people. I have been panting to unburden my mind
to one who can appreciate my inmost experiences.’
Thus he spoke with sobs.
86
VI S I T TO R A MA K RI S HN A
“ Then he stood before me with folded palms and
addressed me, ‘ Lord, I know you are that ancient
sage Nara, the Incarnation of Narayana, bom on
earth to remove the misery of mankind,’ and so on.
I was altogether taken aback by this conduct. He
must be stark mad, I thought. But I kept quiet and
let him go on. Then he seized me by the hand and
said, ‘ Promise that you will come alone to me at
an early date.’ At this importunity I had to say
‘ Yes,’ and we returned together to my friends.
“ I sat and watched him then. I could see nothing
wrong in his words, movements or behaviour towards
others. Rather, from his spiritual conversation and
ecstatic states, he seemed to be a man of genuine
renunciation, and there was a marked consistency
between his words and his life. He said, ‘ God can
be experienced. One can see and talk to Him as I
am doing with you.’ As I heard him say these things
I could not but believe that he was saying them not
as an ordinary preacher would but from the depth
of his own experience. Even if insane, this man
is the holiest of the holy. With such conflicting
thoughts I bowed before him and begged his leave to
return to Calcutta.”
About a month passed before Vivekenanda again
visited Ramakrishna. This time he went alone.
“ I found him sitting alone on his small bedstead,”
says Vivekenanda. “ He was glad to see me, and
calling me affectionately, made me sit beside him on
the bed. (The two would be sitting cross-legged be­
side each other.) The next moment I found him
overcome with emotion. Muttering to himself, with
eyes fixed on me, he slowly drew near. I thought
he might do something queer as on the previous
occasion. But in the twinkling of an eye he had
placed his right foot on my body. The touch at once
gave rise to a curious experience within me.
87
HI NDU MYSTICS
“ With my eyes open, I saw the walls and every­
thing in the room whirl rapidly and vanish into
naught. The whole universe, together with my in­
dividuality, seemed about to merge in a mysterious
Void. I was terribly frightened. I thought I was
facing death. For the loss of individuality meant
nothing short of death. Unable to control myself, I
cried o u t: ‘ What is this that you are doing to me ?
I have my parents at home ? ’
“ He laughed aloud at this, and stroking my chest,
said: ‘ Let it rest now. Everything will come in
time.’ The wonder of it was that no sooner had he
said this than the strange experience vanished. I
was myself again, and found everything within and
without the room as it had been before.
“ All this happened in less time than it takes to
relate. Yet it revolutionised my mind. I began to
question whether it was hypnotism. But that was
not likely, for hypnotism acts only on weak minds,
and I prided myself on having a mind just the re­
verse. So what might this sudden transformation be
due to ? I could not come to any conclusion. But I
thought, how could a man who metamorphosed at will
a strong mind like mine be dismissed as a lunatic ?
So I was in a dilemma about my experience. My
rationalistic mind received an unpleasant rebuff at its
failure in judging the true state of things. But I was
resolved to fathom the mystery.”
During his third visit Vivekenanda fared no better.
From the first he was determined not to be influenced.
But again he lost consciousness. Ramakrishna in­
vited him into an adjacent garden, and after strolling
there for some time they took their seats in the parlour
(not on chairs probably, but cross-legged on the floor).
Soon Ramkrishna fell into a trance, but as Viveken­
anda watched him he was suddenly touched by bim
88
r a m a k r i s h n a ’ s p o w e r
and immediately lost all outward consciousness. And
when he came to, Ramakrishna was stroking his chest.
Vivekenanda was now fully convinced of the extra­
ordinary nature of that power which was working
through Ramakrishna. He had not been a believer
in the necessity of having a guru for experiencing
God. How could a man, necessarily weak and short-
visioned, be the unerring guide that he had to be
in order to command another’s implicit obedience ?
But now he realized that such a man could indeed
exist and that his personal influence could be of in­
estimable value in bringing a man nearer to God.
Still he was determined not to accept anything about
Ramakrishna without testing it by his own experience
or reason.
Vivekenanda was a sceptic, with no faith in Hindu
gods, and he laughed at many of the injunctions of the
Hindu Scriptures. But Ramakrishna instructed him
with infinite love and patience. He was full of ad­
miration of his pure character and strength of mind.
He knew the boy was endowed with rare potentialities.
But he saw that if his tremendous energy were not
directed into a proper spiritual channel he might per­
haps found a new sect but not fulfil his real mission,
which was to be God’s instrument in bringing about
the spiritual regeneration of mankind. Naturally,
therefore, Ramakrishna was anxious to direct his
mind to experiencing God.
But Vivekenanda was not easily handled. Rama­
krishna wanted him to read the Advaita 1 treatises,
and these to Vivekenanda, a staunch member of the
Brahmo Somaj, appeared to be heretical. He would
1Advaita is the principle that the only reality is brahman—
that the dualism set up between the self and the world, between
spirit and matter is the result of ma^a-illusion.
89
M.M. G
HI NDU MYSTICS
therefore rebel, saying there was no greater sin than
to think of oneself as identical with the Creator. I
am God, you are God, these created things are God
—what could be more absurd than th is! Rama-
krishna would be amused at this bluntness, and simply
tell him to go on praying to the God of truth and be­
lieve in that aspect of Him which He might reveal to
him. But Vivekenanda would not give in easily.
Whatever did not tally with reason he would consider
as false. And it was of his very nature to stand
against falsehood.
Ramakrishna was equally sure that Vivekenanda
would in the end come to appreciate the doctrine of
Advaita and be led to the highest experience. He
would therefore make a point of constantly talking
of it before him. One day he had been trying to con­
vince Vivekenanda of the identity of the individual
soul with Brahman but was unable to succeed. Vive­
kenanda and others then laughingly discussed the
question among themselves while Ramakrishna went
into a semi-conscious state. After a time he came
out of this state, asked smilingly what they were
talking about and then touched Vivekenanda. Imme­
diately Vivekenanda was plunged into Samadhi.
“ That magic touch of the Master immediately
brought a change over my mind,” said Vivekenanda.
“ I was stupefied to find that really there was nothing
in the universe but God. I saw it quite clearly, but
kept silent to see if the idea would last. That in­
fluence did not abate in the course of the day. I
returned home but there, also, everything I saw
appeared to be Brahman. Ail the while, whether
eating, or lying down, or going to college, I had the
same experience and felt myself always in a sort of
comatose state. There was no sensation in my limbs
90
V i v e k e n a n d a ’ s t r o u b l e s
and I thought I was becoming paralysed. I had no
satisfaction in eating, and felt as if somebody else
were eating. My mother became alarmed. She was
afraid I would not live long. This state of things
continued for some days. When I became normal
again I realized that I must have had a glimpse of
the Advaita State. Thenceforth I could not deny the
conclusion of the Advaita philosophy.”
Much private trouble came on Vivekenanda after
this. Early in 1884 his father died and his family was
faced with dire poverty. The burden of supporting
six or seven people fell upon Vivekenanda ; and he
was forced to seek employment. Everywhere he met
with refusal. This first contact with the realities of
life convinced him that unselfish sympathy was a
rarity in the world. There was no place in it for the
weak, the poor, and the destitute. The words he
had once heard— “ If God is good and gracious, why
then do millions of people die for want of a few morsels
of food ? ” — rang in his ears. He became exceedingly
cross with God. He came to doubt His existence.
Yet this vivid memory of the divine visions he had
had since his boyhood, and especially after his contact
with Ramakrishna, led him to think that after all God
must exist and that there must be some way of ex­
periencing Him. Then came something which must
be told in his own words.
“ One evening, after a whole day’s fast and exposure
to rain, I was returning home with tired limbs and
jaded mind when, overpowered with exhaustion, I
sank down on the outer plinth of a house. I can’t
say whether I was insensible or not. Suddenly I felt
as if, by some divine power, the coverings of my
soul were removed one after another. All my former
doubts regarding the co-existence of divine justice
91
HI NDU MYSTI CS
and mercy and the presence of misery in creation
were automatically solved. By a deep introspection
I found the meaning of it all, and was satisfied. As
I proceeded homeward I found there was no trace
of fatigue in the body, and the mind was refreshed
with wonderful strength and peace.”
Henceforth he began secretly to prepare himself to
renounce the world, and fixed a day for this purpose.
He was convinced he was not born like humdrum
people to earn money and maintain a family—still less
to strive for pleasure. He became deaf to the praise
or blame of worldly men. And on the day he had fixed
for his renunciation he met Ramakrishna in Calcutta.
Ramakrishna persuaded him to spend the night at
Dakshineswar. There Ramakrishna drew him near
him, and tenderly touching him, began to sing a song,
with tears in his eyes. Vivekenanda says:
“ I had repressed my feelings so long that now
they overflowed in tears. The meaning of the song
was too apparent: he knew I intended to renounce
the world. That night he dismissed all others, and
calling me to his side, said, ‘ I know you have come
for the Mother’s work and will not be able to remain
in the world. But for my sake, stay in the world as
long as I live.’ In saying this he burst into tears.
The next day, with his permission I returned home.”
Vivekenanda was still, however, assailed by a
thousand thoughts regarding the maintenance of his
family, and began again to look about for a living. By
working in an attorney’s office and translating a few
books he earned just enough to five from hand to
mouth. But this was only temporary and there was
no fixed income for the maintenance of his mother and
brothers.
92
D I V I NE I N T O X I CA T I O N
One day the idea struck him that God listened to
Ramakrishna’s prayer, so why should he not ask
Ramakrishna to pray for his pecuniary wants ? He
hurried toDakshineswar and insisted on Ramakrishna’s
making an appeal on behalf of his starving family.
Ramakrishna, however, said he could not make any
such demands, but told Vivekenanda to go to the
Kali temple that night, prostrate himself before the
Mother and ask her any boon he liked. Everything
was in her power. Vivekenanda went to the temple
that night.
“ As I went,” he says, “ I was filled with divine
intoxication. My feet were unsteady. My heart was
leaping in anticipation of the joy of beholding the
Living Goddess and hearing her words. Reaching the
temple I cast my eyes on the image and actually
found that the Divine Mother was living and con­
scious. I was caught in a surging wave of devotion.
In an ecstasy of joy I prostrated myself again and
again before the Mother and prayed, ‘ Mother, give me
discrimination ! Give me renunciation ! Give me
knowledge ! Give me devotion ! Grant that I may
have an uninterrupted vision of thee ! ’ After pray­
ing, a serene peace reigned in my soul. I forgot the
world. Only the Divine Mother shone within my
heart.”
When he returned, Ramakrishna asked him whether
he had prayed to the Mother for the removal of his
worldly troubles. No, he replied : he had forgotten
all about them.
Again he went to the temple. But again he forgot
his intention, and prayed only for love and devotion.
On his return, Ramakrishna asked him if he could
not control himself enough to say those few words, and
sent him a third time to the temple, to try once more.
93
HI NDU MYSTICS
Vivekenanda went for the third time, but on enter­
ing the temple was overpowered with a terrible shame.
What a trifle to pray to the Mother about! It was
like asking a king for a cabbage. In remorse he bowed
respectfully to the goddess and said: “ Mother, I
want nothing but knowledge and devotion.”
Coming out of the temple he saw that all this was
due to Ramakrishna’s will. So he said to Rama-
krishna, “ Sir, it is you who have cast a charm over
my mind and made me forgetful. Now please grant
me the boon that my people may no longer suffer
from poverty.”
Ramakrishna replied : “ Such a prayer never comes
from my lips. I asked you to pray for yourself but
you couldn’t do it. Evidently you are not destined to
enjoy worldly happiness. Well, I can’t help it.”
But Vivekenanda would not let him go, and in­
sisted on his granting that prayer. And at last
Ramakrishna said, “ All right, they will never be in
want of plain food and clothing.” Vivekenanda then
returned to Calcutta.
Afterwards he often said that Ramakrishna was the
only person who, ever since they met, had believed in
him uniformly— even when his mother and brothers
did not. It was his unflinching love and trust that
bound him to Ramakrishna for ever. He alone knew
how to love another.
But Vivekenanda had not yet had the supreme ex­
perience. He had aspired after it and struggled to
attain this highest goal. But it had eluded him.
Then one evening while he was meditating, it came
to him quite unexpectedly. At first he felt as if a
light had been placed behind his head. Then he
passed beyond all relativity and was lost in the
Absolute. He had attained the Nirvikalpa Samadhi.
94
r a m a k r i s h n a ’ s death
When he regained a little consciousness of the
world he recognized only his head and not his
body. He cried out, asking where his body was. A
friend said, “ Here it is.” But Vivekenanda could
not recognize it. His friends were terrified, and
hastened to inform Bamakrishna who, however, was
not in the least alarmed and merely said, “ Let him
be. He has teased me for it long enough.”
After a long time Vivekenanda came to a conscious­
ness of the physical world and found his brother dis­
ciples clustered about him. All he knew was that an
ineffable peace now bathed his soul.
This was on April 16, 1886; and on August 16 of
that same year Ramakrishna died. For long he had
been suffering agonies from cancer.
But before he died he initiated Vivekenanda with
the name of Rama, which he said was his own Ishta
Mantra. The effect was miraculous. In the intoxi­
cation of his bliss Vivekenanda rushed round and
round the house uttering the name of Rama. He was
in such an exalted mood that no one dared approach
him. And the other disciples grew so alarmed they
reported it to Ramakrishna who, however, simply
said, “ Let him be. He will recover in due time.”
A few days before he died Ramakrishna called
Vivekenanda to his side when there was no one in
the room. He made Vivekenanda sit in front of him
and then, gazing at him, he fell into Samadhi. As he
did so Vivekenanda felt a subtle force like an electric
shock penetrate his body, and gradually he, too, lost
consciousness. He did not remember how long he
sat there. But when he came to normal consciousness
he found Ramakrishna weeping.
Vivekenanda asked him why he wept and he re­
plied : “ To-day I have given you my all. Through
95
HINDU MYSTICS
this power you will do a mighty good in the world.
And then only will you go back.”
Henceforth Ramakrishna and Vivekenanda were
one.
On the death of Ramakrishna the leadership of the
little group of disciples fell to Vivekenanda, still only
twenty-three years of age. Though busy with his
own domestic affairs he set to work to fulfil the sacred
task left him by Ramakrishna. Disregarding their
vacillations he would spend hours in describing the
soul-stirring experiences of the Master. And after a
time they set out all over India preaching the message
of Ramakrishna. They left their dearest. They suf­
fered the agonies that all saints have to endure. And
Vivekenanda went further still. He went to Europe
and America. He became famed all over the world.
But always he attributed every good he had or did to
what his Master, Ramakrishna, had imparted to him.
And the reverence for Ramakrishna has been growing
ever since. No Indian of recent years has been so
deeply revered. And by some Hindus he is now
regarded as a veritable Incarnation of God.
96
CHAPTER II
MOSLEM MYSTICS
A
MONG Moslems it is difficult to find recent
examples of the mystical experience. Not
that they do not have such experiences:
they have them but they shun speaking or writing o
them. Centuries ago the Sufis used to write in glori­
ous poetry of the mystic state. And in the present
times Inayat Khan undoubtedly based his teaching
on some mystical experience he must have had, but
of it there is no record. It has, therefore, been neces­
sary to go back nearly a century for an example of
mystical experience among Moslems and take the
story of the Bab, about whom much now is on record.
In a sense he was opposed to mysticism, for he objected
to Sufis on account of their doctrine of the Inner
Light, their pantheism, and their individualism.
Nevertheless, he had undoubtedly enjoyed the mystical
experience and his short heroic life—for he sufiered
martyrdom before he was thirty—gives abundant
evidence of that joy and gladness, that serenity and
firmness of conviction which are so characteristic of
the mystical state.
Among the Shiah sect of the Islamic faith there is a
perpetual expectancy—the expectancy of the ap­
pearance of the Imam Mahdi. These Shiahs believe
97
MOSLEM MYSTICS
that after the ascension into heaven of Mahomed he
was succeeded by a line of twelve Imams. The
twelfth Imam, who succeeded just a thousand years
before the time of the Bab, is said to have only dis­
appeared, and it is believed that he will reappear and
fill the Earth with justice. The Shiahs expect the
Imam Madhi as eagerly as Jews expected the Messiah.
Among the Shiah Moslems was a sect centred at
Kerbela in Mesopotamia who specially concentrated
on the expectancy. The leader in the first half of
last century was a mulla named Kazim. For some
years he had been foretelling the advent of One
who would be the bearer of a new and independent
revelation. He realized, we are told, how dense were
those veils that hinder seekers from apprehending the
glory of the hidden Manifestation. He accordingly
exerted his utmost endeavour to remove gradually,
wisely and cautiously whatever barriers might stand
in the way of the full recognition of that hidden
Treasure of God. To his disciples he said :
“ It is incumbent upon you to renounce all com­
fort, all earthly possessions, and even your kindred,
and seek Him who is the Desire of both your hearts
and mine. Never relax in your determination to
seek and find Him who is concealed behind the veils
of glory. . . . How great, how very great is the
cause ! How exalted the station to which I summon
you ! How great the mission for which I have trained
and prepared you ! ”
Kazim died in the year 1843, and among those who
were inspired by his words and were seeking the Pro­
mised One was a young mulla named Hosain, or
Husayn, a native of the Persian Province of Khorasan.
He was bom in the year 1813, and for nine years he
98
QUEST OF THE MESSIAH
had remained with Kazim, preparing for the advent
of the Promised One. This young mulla was de­
scribed by one of his contemporaries as being the very
embodiment of constancy, piety and virtue, and as
inspiring others with his rectitude of conduct and
passionate loyalty. Such, indeed, was the force of his
character and the ardour of his faith that men felt
that he, unaided and alone, could achieve the triumph
of the Faith of God. Another records of him that no
one could question his erudition, his charm, his high in­
tegrity, his fairness, his wisdom, or his amazing courage.
And one of his fellow-mullas had paid such a
glowing tribute to this character, his high attainments
and his ability, that some of those who heard this pane­
gyric suspected Husayn of being the very Promised
One whom Kazim had so often declared was living in
their midst, though, as yet, unrecognized. So they
one day approached him, saying : “ Such is our confi­
dence in you that if you claim to be the Promised One
we shall all readily and unquestioningly subm it; and
we here and now pledge our loyalty and obedience to
whatever you bid us perform.”
But Husayn replied: “ God forbid! Far be it
from His glory that I, who am but dust, should be
compared to Him who is the Lord or Lords. . . .
Your and my first obligation is to aim at and carry
out, both in spirit and in letter, the dying message of
our beloved Chief.”
He would not admit that he himself was the Pro­
mised One ; but he determined to devote his life to the
quest of the Messiah ; and after first preparing himself
for the holy adventure by spending forty days in re­
tirement and prayer, on vigils and fasting, he set out
from Kerbela for Bushire on the Persia Gulf.
And Bushire has interest in this story, for it so
09
MOSLEM MYSTICS
happened that here was bom , in the year 1821, one
Ali Mahomed, who, as he grew up, attracted much
attention on account of his austere practices and pre­
occupation with religious matters. He was remark­
able for his courtesy and charm, the dignity of his
manner and the purity of his character. His father
was a merchant, and he himselfwas engaged in business
for a time. But having married and lost the son bom
of the marriage he decided to make a pilgrimage to the
holy city of Kerbela, and there it was that he, like
Husayn, had listened to Kazim’s prophecies and, also
like Husayn, had impressed his fellow-devotees by his
piety. Indeed, so wrapt would he be in his devotions
that he would seem utterly oblivious of those about
him. Tears would rain from his eyes ; and from his
lips would fall words of such power and beauty as are
not to be surpassed in the noblest passages of Scripture.
“ Oh ! God, my God, my beloved, my heart’s de­
sire,” he would keep repeating with a frequency and
an ardour that those near him would interrupt their
prayers and marvel at his devotion. And at this time
he had a vision which deeply influenced him and which
he himself subsequently described.
“ In my vision I saw the head of the Imam Husayn
hanging upon a tree with drops of blood dropping
profusely from his lacerated throat. With feelings
of unsurpassed delight I approached that tree, and
stretching forth my hand gathered a few drops of
that sacred blood and devoutly drank them. When
I awoke I found that the Spirit of God had permeated
my whole soul and taken possession of it. My heart
was thrilled with the joy of the divine presence, and
the mysteries of His revelation were unfolded before
my eyes in all their glory.”
From Kerbela Ali Mahomed had returned to Bushire,
100
H U S A Y N MEETS THE BAB
where he had remained until a few months after the
death of Kazim, and had then closed his business and
gone to Shiraz.
A few months later, Husayn passing through
Bushire noted the spiritual atmosphere of the place.
But proceeding on his quest he reached Shiraz, and
there a little before sunset, as he was walking outside
the gate of the city, his eyes suddenly fell on a youth
of radiant countenance, who advanced towards him
and greeted him with a smile of loving welcome as
if he had been his intimate and life-long friend. He
invited Husayn to his home, and as Husayn entered
the house he was invaded by a feeling of unutterable
joy. Oppressed by the mystery of this meeting and
by the strain of his search for the Promised One Hus­
ayn breathed this prayer : “ Oh ! my God. I have
striven with all my soul, and until now have failed to
find Thy promised Messenger. Yet Thy word faileth
not, and Thy promise is sure.”
After the evening prayer his youthful host began
to question Husayn. “ Whom do you regard as
Kazim’s successor and your leader ? ” he asked.
“ Our departed teacher exhorted us to forsake our
homes in quest of the promised Beloved. I have
arisen to accomplish his will, and am still engaged in
my quest,” replied Husayn.
“ Has your teacher indicated any features by which
the Promised One might be distinguished ? ” inquired
Husayn’s host.
“ Yes,” replied Husayn, “ he is one of pure lineage,
over twenty years of age but less than thirty, endowed
with intuitive knowledge and free of bodily defects.”
There was a pause: then, with vibrant voice his
host exclaimed : “ Behold, all these signs are manifest
in me ! ”
101
MOSLEM MYSTICS
“ True,” replied Husayn, “ but he whose advent we
await is a man of unsurpassed holiness, and the Cause
he is to reveal to us is a Cause of tremendous power.
Many and diverse are the requirements which he who
claims to be its visible embodiment must needs fulfil.”
When Husayn first started on his quest he had fixed
on two standards by which he would test the claims
of any to be the Promised One. He had composed a
treatise on the hidden teachings propounded by Kazim
and to him who could unravel the mysterious allusions
he would submit his second test which was to reveal
an entirely new commentary on the Surih of Joseph.
This treatise Husayn now presented to his host, in
order to test his capacity. To his surprise the young
man in a few minutes unravelled all its mysteries and
resolved all its problems. In addition he expounded
new truths with vividness and power. Then he made
a commentary on the Surih of Joseph, without for
one moment interrupting the flow of the verses.
Husayn sat enraptured by the magic of his voice
and the sweeping force of his revelation. Hour after
hour slipped by till suddenly the call of the muadhdhin
summoning the faithful to prayer at dawn awakened
him from the state of ecstasy into which he had fallen.
All the delights, all the ineffable glories which are the
priceless possessions of the people of Paradise, he
seemed to be experiencing that night; and he became
convinced that his host was none other than the
Promised One.
Then his host, who proved to be the Ali Mahomed
from Bushire referred to above, addressed Husayn
in these w ords:
“ 0 thou who art the first to believe in me, verily
I say unto thee I am The Bab, the Gate of God, and
102
THE BAB PROCLAIMS HIMSELF
thou art the Bab-ul-Bab, the gate of that Gate.
Eighteen souls must, at first, of their own accord,
accept me and recognize the truth of my revelation.
And when this number is complete, one of them must
accompany me on my pilgrimage to Mecca, where I
shall deliver the message of God to the Sherif. But
it is incumbent upon you not to divulge, either to
your companions or to any other soul, that which
you have heard. You should continue in prayer until
my departure for Hejaz. But, ere I depart, I shall
appoint unto each of the eighteen souls his special
mission and instruct them to teach the Word of God
and quicken the souls of men.”
Having spoken these words the Bab dismissed
Husayn from his presence.
Little wonder is it that Husayn was dumbfounded
at his experiences during that wonderful night. Here
was a young man of twenty-four making this startling
and tremendous claim that he was the Messiah so long
promised, so eagerly expected—one who would be re­
garded as a divine being, as belonging to a different
order of being from common humanity—one who
would be the spiritual guide of all Moslems and whose
every word must be implicitly obeyed..
This revelation coming suddenly as a thunderbolt
upon Husayn fairly numbed his faculties. He was
blinded by its dazzling splendour and overwhelmed by
its crushing force. Excitement, awe and wonder
stirred him to the depths. He was transfigured with
a sense of gladness and strength. Hitherto he had
been feeble, dejected and timid. Now he felt pos­
sessed of such courage and power that, were the whole
world with its peoples and potentates to rise against
him, he would face them undaunted. The whole
universe was but a handful of dust in his hand. He
103
M O SLE M M Y S T I C S
seemed to hear the voice of Gabriel calling unto all
mankind, “ Awake, for, Lo ! the morning light has
broken. He who is your Promised One is come.”
Faithful to the direction of the Bab he performed
his devotions and organized classes. Gradually people
gathered about him and marvelled at the spirit which
his discourses revealed. On several occasions he
would spend the entire night with the Bab and, fasci­
nated by the charm of his utterance, become oblivious
of the world. On one such night the Bab foretold
that thirteen other followers would arrive and enjoined
Husayn: “ Pray to God, that He may graciously
enable them to walk securely in that path which is
finer than a hair and keener than a sword.”
The next morning a certain Mulla Ah and twelve
companions came to Husayn. They, too, were seek­
ing the Promised One but were surprised at Husayn’s
lack of agitation and expectancy, till he hinted to Ah
that he had already found the object of their quest.
Then they all besought God to fulfil His promise.
And on the third night there appeared before Ah, while
he was wrapt in prayer, a light, and, lo ! that hght
moved before him. Allured by its splendour, he had
to follow it, till at last it led him to his promised
Beloved. Inspired by the vision he arose and beaming
with joy and gladness, he hastened to Husayn. At
dawn the two together went to the Bab. Ah was as
warmly welcomed as Husayn had been, and a spirit of
close and ardent fellowship sprang up between them.
The entire chamber seemed to be vitalized by the
celestial potency emanating from the Bab. They
glowed with intense adoration. New Day had dawned
upon them.
Each of Ah’s twelve companions in turn found the
Bab, and were declared by him to be Letters of the
104
THE B A B ’ S PLAN
Living. Others followed. Seventeen were gradually
enrolled and appointed as chosen apostles of the Bab,
ministers of his faith and diffusers of his light. One
only remained to complete the number. Next day,
as the Bab, followed by Husayn, was returning to his
home there appeared a youth, dishevelled and travel-
stained, who approached Husayn and asked him
whether he had attained his goal. Then, fixing his
gaze upon the Bab who was some steps in advance, he
said to Husayn : “ Why seek you to hide him from
me ? I can recognize him by his gait. None other
can manifest the power and majesty that radiate from
his holy person.” Husayn told the Bab of these
words, and the Bab told him to marvel not, for he had
been communing with this youth in the spirit. The
youth was then accepted. He was only twenty-two,
and became known as Quddus. So the eighteen
apostles were now complete.
In general the Bab’s plan was now this. He him­
self with one companion would proceed to the holy
cities of Mecca and Medina and there, by public pro­
clamation, inaugurate his mission. Having thus done
he would return triumphantly from his pilgrimage and
establish his Cause in the holy cities of Kerbela and
Najaf in Iraq. One of his apostles was to be sent to
Turkish territory and another to India. Others were
to be sent to different provinces in Persia.
Husayn had hoped that the Bab would have taken
him on his contemplated pilgrimage to Mecca, but the
Bab had a higher mission for him. Summoning bim
to his presence the Bab said:
“ My covenant with you is now accomplished.
Gird up the loins of endeavour and arise to diffuse
my Cause. Raise the cry, ‘ Awake, awake, for, lo 1
the Gate of God is open, and the morning light
«•X. 105 H
MOSLEM MYSTICS
is shedding its radiance upon all mankind ! The
Promised One is made m anifest; prepare the way for
him, 0 people of the Earth ! Deprive not yourselves
of its redeeming grace, nor close your eyes to its
glory.’ With those whom you find responsive to your
call share the epistles I have revealed to you, that
they may turn from the slough of neglect and soar
into the realm of divine revelation.”
The Bab then told Husayn that he had chosen
Quddus as his companion for the pilgrimage to Mecca,
and would leave Husayn behind to face the onslaught
of a fierce and relentless enemy, though he might rest
assured that a bounty unspeakably glorious would be
conferred upon him, as the high mission for which he
had been created would of a surety be accomplished
to the full, and not all the darts of an unbelieving
world could hurt a single hair of his head until his
work was consummated. He was to proceed north
to Teheran, where a secret lay hidden, and thence to
Khorasan, where he was to proclaim the Call anew.
After that he was to return to Kerbela and there await
the Bab’s summons.
Ali was then summoned to the Bab’s presence and
was directed to proceed to Najaf and Kerbela.
“ Your faith,” said the Bab, “ must be immovable
as the rock, must weather every storm and survive
every calamity. Suffer not denunciations of the
foolish and calumnies of the mullas to afflict you.
If you be slain in the pathway to God, remember
that great will be the reward which will be bestowed
upon you.”
The remainder of the apostles were then called to
his presence. To each he gave a special task, and to
each he assigned his own native province as the field
106
HIS INSTRUCTI ONS
of his labours. But all were to refrain from specific
reference to the Bab himself. And to all he addressed
these parting w ords:
“ You have been chosen as repositories of God’s
wisdom. It behoves each one of you to manifest
the attributes of God, and to exemplify by your
deeds and words the signs of His righteousness, His
power and His glory. Verily, this is the day spoken
of by God in His b ook : *On that day will We set
a seal upon their m ouths; yet shall their tongues
speak unto Us, and their feet shall bear witness to
that which they have done.’ Ponder also the words
of Jesus addressed to His disciples as He sent them
forth to propagate the Cause of God : ‘ Ye are even
as the fire which in the darkness of the night has
been kindled upon the mountain-top. Let your light
shine before the eyes of men. Such must be the
purity of your character and the degree of your re­
nunciation, that through you the people of the Earth
may recognize and be drawn closer to the Heavenly
Father who is the source of purity and grace.’ 0 , my
disciples ! Verily I say, immensely exalted is this
day above the days of the apostles of old. You are
the witnesses of the dawn of the promised Day of
God. Purge your hearts of worldly desires and let
angelic virtues be your adorning. Strive that by
your deeds you may bear witness to the truth. The
days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are
ended. The time is come when naught but the purest
motive, supported by deeds of stainless purity, can
ascend to the throne of the Most High. I am pre­
paring you for the advent of a mighty Day, the newly
bom babe of which will excel the wisest of this present
time. Scatter throughout the length and breadth of
this land, and with steadfast feet and sanctified
hearts, prepare the way for God’s coming. Heed
not your frailty; fix your gaze upon the invincible
107
MOSLEM MYSTICS
power of your God. Did He not cause Abraham to
triumph over the forces of Nimrod ? Did He not
enable Moses to vanquish Pharaoh and his hosts ?
Has He not established the rule of the poor and
lowly Jesus over all the forces of the Jewish people ?
Has He not subjected the militant tribes of Arabia to
the transforming discipline of His prophet Mahomed ?
Arise then in His Name, put your whole trust in Him
and victory is surely yours ! ”
With such words did the Bab quicken the faith of
his disciples and launch them upon their mission.
And he well knew the opposition they must expect
from the orthodox upholders of ancient tradition, for,
besides making the tremendous claim to Messiahship,
he was proclaiming drastic innovations. According
to him, the Essence of God, the Primal Divine Unity,
transcends all human comprehension. All we can
know is Its manifestations. In essence all Prophets
are one. One Universal Intelligence speaks to man­
kind through successive agents according to the capa­
city and needs of the time—through Abraham, Moses,
Christ, Mahomed, and now through the latest mani­
festation, himself. But he would not be the last of
all. There never would be a last. For the world is
eternal and progress unending. Another would follow
him. And to each a boundless devotion must be
given. This was the Bab’s teaching.
The first to leave and the first to suifer was Ali.
Immediately on receiving his commission from the
Bab he set out for Najaf. Arrived in this holy city he
proceeded to carry out the Bab’s intention of intro­
ducing the new Faith into Turkish territory. Ac­
cordingly, in the presence of the leading men of Shiah
Islam, he fearlessly announced the manifestation of
108
DEPARTURE OP H U S A I N
the Bab, the Gate, whose advent they were eagerly
awaiting. In proof of this claim Ali recounted the
number of verses, prayers, homilies and scientific
treatises which streamed from the pen of the Bab.
But instead of welcoming these life-giving evidences
of a new-born revelation the mullas pronounced Ali a
heretic and expelled him from the assembly. Even­
tually he was bound and delivered into the hands of
the Turkish Government, arraigned as a wrecker of
Islam, a disgrace to the Faith and worthy of the
penalty of death. He was taken to Baghdad, where
he was publicly accused of being an infidel, an abro-
gator of the laws of Islam, and a repudiator of its
rituals and standards. He was again thrown into
prison. Then he was deported to Constantinople.
And after that nothing more was ever heard of him.
Husayn remained with the Bab some days after
Ali’s departure, and then proceeded to Isphahan,
where he fearlessly and unreservedly delivered the
message with which he had been entrusted. He was
immediately denounced as claiming that he whose
cause he was now championing was the revealer of a
divinely inspired book whose tone and language re­
sembled the Koran. Thus was he disrupting the holy
Faith of Islam. His denouncers appealed to the
Governor, but he refused to interfere in such a matter,
and Husayn was able to remain in peace and make a
few converts before proceeding to Teheran. At the
Persian capital he was told of one Baha-ullah, the
noble son of a noble father of high standing. This
young man of eight-and-twenty had high intellectual
attainments and was devoted to religious pursuits.
Husayn entrusted to one of his adherents a scroll to
109
MOSLEM MYSTICS
be handed personally to Baha-ullah. The latter read
the scroll and sent back the messenger to Husayn with
a small present and an expression of his appreciation
and love. Husayn, on receipt of the present and
message, fervently kissed the present and then took
the messenger in his arms and kissed his eyes. The
messenger was amazed, and wondered what kind of a
bond it was that could unite these two souls and
kindle so fervent a fellowship in their hearts.
A few days later Husayn left Teheran for Khorasan.
In that province he exhibited in an astounding manner
the effects of that regenerating power with which the
Bab had invested him. In whatever gathering he
appeared, no matter how great the number, or how
representative the character of the divines who were
present, he alone came to the front as the chief
speaker. His fine character, as well as his extreme
devoutness, ennobled his already high reputation. He
made many converts among the mullas, the most
notable of whom was Mirza Mahomed Baquir, who
became a devoted follower of the Bab. Love of the
Bab, indeed, inflamed the new convert’s soul with such
a consuming passion that no one could resist its force.
He became the terror of his enemies and the inspira­
tion of his friends.
As soon as Husayn had won such able and devoted
supporters to the Cause he reported the result to the
Bab, who, on receipt of the good news, kept repeating,
“ How marvellous, how exceedingly marvellous ! ”
What especially pleased the Bab in Husayn’s letter
was his reference to Baha-ullah’s immediate response
to the divine message and the news that Baha-ullah
had boldly initiated a campaign in his native province*.
The Bab was gladdened at the marvellous success.
Now he was assured that, if he himself fell a victim to
110
B A B ’ S J O UR N E Y TO MECCA
the tyranny of his foes, his Cause would live : the
master-hand of Baha-ullah would direct it, and under
his direction it would flourish and eventually yield
its choicest fruits.
His mind thus eased, the Bab, accompanied by
Quddus, now joined a company of pilgrims leaving for
Mecca. They proceeded in the month of October
1844, first to Bushire, and from there by sailing boat
to Jeddah on the Red Sea.
High seas and the complete absence of comfort
could neither interfere with the regularity of the Bab’s
devotions nor perturb the peacefulness of his medi­
tations and prayers. “ Whenever, by day or night,
I chanced to meet them,” says a fellow-pilgrim, “ I
invariably found the Bab and Quddus together, both
absorbed in their work—the Bab in dictating, and
Quddus in taking down his words.”
Upon his arrival at Jeddah the Bab donned the
pilgrim’s garb, and mounting a camel, set out for
Mecca. One day a roving Bedouin snatched the Bab’s
saddle-bag, which was lying on the ground, and
vanished into the desert. The bag contained the
Bab’s writings, and his servant wished to pursue the
thief. But the Bab restrained him, saying:
“ Had I allowed you, you would surely have over­
taken and punished him. But this was not to be.
The writings which that bag contained are destined
to reach, through the instrumentality of this Arab,
such places as we could never have succeeded in
attaining. Grieve not, therefore, at this action, for
-this was decreed by God, the Ordainer, the Almighty.”
Many a time afterwards did the Bab, on similar
occasions, seek to comfort his friends by such re-
111
MOSLEM MYSTICS
flections. By words such as these he turned the
bitterness of regret and resentment into radiant ac­
quiescence in the Divine purpose and into joyous
submission to God’s will.
Arrived at Mecca, he performed all the prescribed
rites of worship. With the utmost dignity and calm,
and with extreme simplicity and reverence he com­
passed the Kabba. On the last day of his pilgrimage
he met a noted member of the Shayki community to
which Kazim had belonged, and in those hallowed
precincts he fearlessly appealed to him. Holding his
hand the Bab said :
“ Verily, I declare, none beside me in this day,
whether in the East or in the West, can claini to
be the Gate that leadeth men to the knowledge of
God. My proof is none other than that same proof
whereby the truth of the Prophet Mahomed was
established. Ask me whatsoever thou pleasest and
now, at this very moment, I pledge myself to re­
veal such verses as can demonstrate the truth of my
mission.
“ Thou must choose either to submit thyself un­
reservedly to my Cause or entirely to repudiate it.
No other alternative is thine. But if thou choose
to reject my message I will not let thine hand go
until thou pledge thy word to declare thy repudiation
publicly.
“ Thus shall he who speaketh the truth be made
known, and he that speaketh falsely be condemned
to eternal misery and everlasting shame.”
This peremptory challenge thrust so suddenly upon
Mirza Muhit distressed him profoundly. He excused
himselffrom giving any immediate reply, and the two
parted.
The Bab also addressed an epistle to the Sherif
112
BAB AT ME DI NA
of the holy city, wherein he set forth in clear and un­
mistakable language, the distinguishing features of his
mission and called upon him to arise and embrace the
Cause. But this epistle the Sherif mislaid in the press
of business, and it was not for some time after that
he read it. Under these two rebuffs the Bab’s mission
to Mecca had little present result. The powers of
orthodoxy were too strong.
From Mecca the Bab proceeded to Medina. As he
approached that holy city he called to mind the stirring
events that had immortalized the name of Him who
had lived and died within its walls. Those scenes
which bore testimony to the creative power of that
undying Genius seemed to be re-enacted before his
eyes. He also remembered, as he trod that holy
ground, that shining Herald of his own Dispensation,
Shayk Ahmad-i-Aksai. There came to him, too, the
vision of those holy men, pioneers and martyrs of the
Faith who had fallen gloriously on the field of battle.
Their sacred dust was reanimated by the gentle tread
of his feet. Their shades were stirred by the reviving
breath of his presence. They seemed to be addressing
to him this fervent plea :
“ Return not unto thy native land, we beseech
thee, 0 thou beloved of our hearts! Abide thou
in our midst, for here, far from the tumult of thine
enemies who are lying in wait for thee, thou shalt
be safe and secure. We are fearful for thee. We
dread the plottings and machinations of thy foes.”
“ Fear not,” the indomitable Spirit of the Bab
replied, “ I am come into the world to bear witness
to the glory of sacrifice. You are aware of the in­
tensity of my longing. You realize the degree of my
renunciation. Rather, therefore, beseech the Lord
your God to hasten the hour of my martyrdom and
113
M O SLEM M Y S T I C S
to accept my sacrifice. Grieve not if I depart from
this land, for I am hastening to fulfil my destiny.”
He returned to Jeddah, embarked on a ship and
reached Bushire nine months after his departure on
the pilgrimage. He had not effected the object with
which he had gone to Mecca. This youth from Shiraz
had been received with icy contempt by the powers
that be in the holy city. But his spirit was undaunted.
While still at Bushire the Bab bade Quddus, his
faithful companion during his pilgrimage, to depart
for Shiraz.
“ The hour of separation,” said the Bab, “ hath
struck—a separation to which no reunion will follow
except in the Kingdom of God, in the presence of
the King of Glory. The hand of destiny will ere
long plunge you into an ocean of tribulation for His
sake. I, too, will follow you. I, too, will be im­
mersed beneath its depths. Rejoice with exceeding
gladness, for you have been chosen as the standard-
bearer of the host of the afflicted. You are in the
vanguard of that noble army who will suffer martyr­
dom in His name. But you will attain the presence
of Him, who is the one object of our adoration and
love. In His presence you will forget the harm that
shall have befallen you. The hosts of the Unseen
will hasten forth to assist you and will proclaim to
all the world your heroism and glory. And yours will
be the ineffable joy of quaffing the cup of martyrdom
for His sake.”
Having thus spoken, the Bab delivered into his
hands a copy of “ The Seven Qualifications,” a treatise
in which he had set forth the essential requirements
of those who had attained to a knowledge of the new
Revelation and had recognized its claim.
114
QUDDUS
Quddus was affectionately welcomed at Shiraz by
the Bab’s maternal uncle, Siyyid Ali, and succeeded
in persuading him to embrace the Cause. And so
steadfast became Siyyid Ali’s faith, and so profound
grew his love for the Bab that he consecrated his whole
life to his service. With unrelaxing vigilance he arose
to defend the Cause. He scorned fatigue, and per­
severed in his task until the hour when, in company
with the Seven Martyrs, he laid down his life for Him.
Quddus also gave the Bab’s treatise to a mulla
named Sadik, and stressed the necessity of imme­
diately putting its provisions into effect. And so en­
raptured was Sadik by the treatise that he unhesi­
tatingly resolved to carry out all the observances it
contained. Driven by the impelling force inherent in
the Bab’s treatise he one day, while leading the con­
gregation in prayer, suddenly proclaimed the message
of the Bab.
Consternation seized the entire congregation. The
distinguished divines who occupied the front seats
loudly protested.
“ Woe betide us, the guardians and protectors of the
Faith of G od ! Behold, this man has hoisted the
standard of heresy. Down with this infamous
traitor ! ”
The populace echoed these protestations. The
whole city was aroused. Public order was seriously
threatened and the Governor had to intervene and
inquire into the cause of this sudden commotion.
He was informed that a disciple of the young man
called the Bab had arrived in Shiraz and was propa­
gating the teachings of his Master. “ This disciple,”
the Governor was further informed, “ claims that his
teacher is the author of a new revelation contained in
a book which he asserts is divinely inspired. Mulla
115
MOSLEM MYSTICS
Sadik has embraced that faith and is fearlessly sum­
moning the multitude to the acceptance of that
message. He declares its recognition to be the first
obligation of every loyal and pious follower of Shiah
Islam.”
Hearing this, the Governor promptly ordered the
arrest of both Quddus and Sadik, and the copy of the
Bab’s treatise was seized by the police.
“ Tell us,” angrily asked the Governor as he turned
to Sadik, “ if you are aware of the opening passages
of the treatise wherein the Bab addresses the rulers
and kings of the Earth in these terms : ‘ Divest your­
selves of the robe of sovereignty, for He who is the
King in truth, hath been made m anifest! The
Kingdom is God’s.’ If this be true it must necessarily
apply to my sovereign. Must Mahomed Shah lay
down his crown and abandon his sovereignty ? Must
I, too, abdicate my power and relinquish my posi­
tion ? ”
“ When once the truth of the Revelation announced
by the Author of these words,” replied Sadik, “ shall
have been definitely established, the truth of whatever
has fallen from His lips will likewise be vindicated.
If these words be the word of God, the abdication of
Mahomed Shah and his like can matter but little. It
can in no wise turn aside the Divine purpose nor alter
the sovereignty of the Almighty and eternal King.”
The Governor was sorely displeased with such an
answer. He reviled and cursed Sadik, and ordered
his attendants to scourge him with a thousand lashes,
to burn the beards of both Quddus and Sadik, to pierce
their noses and pass a cord through the incision and
lead them by it through the city.
With magnificent fortitude both resigned themselves
to their fate, and a joyous exultation invaded their
116
BAB SEI ZED
souls. Subsequently, they were expelled from Shiraz
and warned that if they ever returned to the city they
would be crucified.
The Governor then sought out the Bab and sent a
guard to Bushire to bring him in chains to Shiraz.
On the way they met the Bab himself, who, approach­
ing the leader, delivered himself into his hands. On
his arrival in Shiraz the Governor himself hastily
summoned him to his presence.
“ Do you realise,” he angrily protested, “ what a
great mischiefyou have kindled ? Are you aware what
a disgrace you have become to the holy Faith of Islam
and to the augustperson of our sovereign ? Axe you not
the man who claims to be the author of a new revela­
tion annulling the sacred precepts of the Koran ? ”
“ If any bad man come unto you,” replied the Bab
in the words of the Koran, “ clear up the matter at
once, lest through ignorance ye harm others, and be
speedily constrained to repent of what ye have done.”
“ What,” exclaimed the Governor, “ Dare you
ascribe evil, and ignorance, and folly to us ? ”
Then turning to his attendant, he bade him strike
the Bab in the face. And so violent was the blow that
the Bab’s turban fell to the ground. But the leading
Mulla of Shiraz, highly disapproving of the conduct of
the Governor, ordered the turban to be replaced upon
the Bab’s head, and explained to the Governor the
circumstances in which the verse quoted by the Bab
had been revealed. By this means he sought to calm
the Governor’s fury.
“ The wise course,” argued the Mulla, “ is to inquire
into this matter with great care, and judge according
to the precepts of the Holy Book.”
The Governor readily consented and, after giving
sureties, the Bab was allowed to go to the house of his
117
MOSLEM MYSTICS
maternal uncle, where he remained in strict seclusion
for some time.
And there he was secretly joined by Husayn, his
first disciple, who had made his way thither from
Khorasan. Several times at night did the two meet
and converse till the break of day. But Husayn’s
intercourse with the Bab became known. The popu­
lace feared his contemplating a still fiercer onslaught
upon their time-honoured institutions. So the Bab
instructed him to return to his native province of
Khorasan. The Bab likewise dismissed his com­
panions. And these, spreading through the length
and breadth of the country, fearlessly proclaimed
to their countrymen the regenerating power of the
new-born Revelation. A wave of passionate inquiry
swayed the minds and hearts of both the leaders and
the masses of the people. Amazement and wonder
seized those who had heard from the lips of the
messengers of the Bab the tale of those signs and
testimonies which had heralded the birth of his mani­
festation. The Shah himself was moved to inquire
into the matter, and despatched Sayad Yahya, the
most learned of his subjects, to interview the Bab.
For about two hours this envoy directed the atten­
tion of the Bab to the most abstruse themes in the
teachings of Islam. But the conciseness and lucidity
of the Bab’s answers so excited his wonder and ad­
miration that he, too, became a convert. And such
was the state of certitude to which he attained that
he affirmed that if all the powers of the Earth were to
be leagued against him, they would be powerless to
shake his confidence in the greatness of the Bab’s Cause.
So the Bab enjoyed comparative tranquillity for a
time. But meanwhile the Governor was bending
every effort to involve the Bab in fresh embarrass-
118
BAB IMPRI SONED
meats. And being informed that every night eager
crowds gathered to visit the Bab, he forthwith ordered
his arrest. The chief constable broke into the house
where the Bab wasstaying, arrestedhim, and carried off
all documents. On hearing of this, however, the Shah
dismissed the Governor from office. And on obtaining
his freedom the Bab proceeded to Isphahan, where he
was most hospitably received by the chief Mulla.
There, for a time, things went well.
An unceasing stream of visitors flowed to his resi­
dence. A few indeed came merely to satisfy their
curiosity, but others came to obtain a deeper under­
standing of his Faith, and still others to seek a remedy
for their ills and sufferings, and his popularity grew.
But his growing popularity soon aroused the resent­
ment of the ecclesiastical authorities. They viewed
with envy the ascendancy which he was slowly ac­
quiring over the thoughts and consciences of their
followers. With feelings of dismay they beheld onevery
side evidences of his all-pervasive influence invading the
stronghold of orthodoxy and subverting their founda­
tions. They accordingly summoned a gathering, and at
it signed and sealed a document which condemned him
as a heretic and declared him to be deserving of the
penalty of death. They sent him to Tabriz and thence
to Mah Ku, a place so remote that they hoped that by
sending him there the tide of his rising influence would
be stemmed and every tie that bound him to the body
of his disciples throughout the country be severed.
Confined within the walls of the castle the Bab was
indeed separated from his disciples, but he was able to
devote his time the more to the composition of the
Persian Bayan, in which he laid down the laws and
precepts of his dispensation, plainly and emphatically
announced the advent of a subsequent Revelation, and
119
MOSLEM MYSTICS
persistently urged his followers to seek and find
“ Him whom God would make manifest.”
Meanwhile, Husayn, who had been endeavouring to
spread the knowledge of the new Revelation in Meshed,
when he heard of the Bab’s incarceration, determined
to walk the whole way from the eastern side of Persia
to the western to see him. The Bab affectionately
embraced him on his arrival, and at the end of nine
days dismissed him with these words : “ On foot you
have walked from your native province to this place,
and on foot you must return. . . . You should visit
on your way the believers of Tabriz, Teheran and other
places. To each you will convey the expression of
my love and tender affection. . . . You will strive
to inflame their hearts anew with the fire of the love
of God and will endeavour to fortify their faith in
His Revelation.”
Husayn proceeded first to Teheran and thence to
Barfurush, the home of Quddus ; and there his keen
insight swiftly apprehended the magnitude ofthe power
latent in Quddus and the nobility of his character.
Husayn then continued his journey to Meshed,
where he built a house, in which he was soon joined by
Quddus. A steady stream of visitors poured to see
Quddus, acknowledging the claim of the Cause and
willingly enlisting under its banner. In time such a
conflagration was lighted in the hearts of men that its
quickening power was felt to the most outlying parts.
And while the Almighty, through Quddus, had in
Khorasan in the East fit a fire that glowed in hottest
flame, He had in Kerbela, beyond the western con­
fines of Persia, kindled the fight of Tahirih,1who had
1 Also known as Qurral-i-Ayni.
120
TAHI RI H
been converted to the Cause of the Bab by reading
his writings at Kerbela. Unwarned and uninvited,
she had perceived the dawning light of the promised
Revelation breaking upon the city of Shiraz, and was
prompted to pen her message and plead her fidelity to
him who was the revealer of that light. She vehe­
mently denounced the corruption and perversity of
her generation, and fearlessly advocated a funda­
mental revolution in the habits and maimers of her
people. Her indomitable spirit was quickened by the
fire of her love for the Bab. All who met her were
ensnared by her bewitching eloquence. None could
resist her charm ; and few could escape the contagion
of her belief. She was able to fire the imagination of
a considerable number of both the Persian and the
Arab inhabitants of Iraq and lead them to join forces
with those in Persia. Eventually she herself came to
Persia, and was sent by Baha-ullah to Khorasan with
a company of believers.
In the meanwhile, disturbances had occurred in
Meshed. The number of seekers had swelled to such
proportions as to excite the apprehension of the
authorities. And the chief constable, determining to
assert his rights, ordered the arrest of Husayn’s special
attendant, named Hasan. They pierced his nose,
passed a cord through the incision, and with this halter
led him through the streets. Husayn tried to appease
the anger of his companions. But their hearts burned
with impatience to redress that bitter injury. A
number of them banded themselves together and
loudly raised through the streets of Meshed the cry of
“ Ya Sahibaz-Zaman ” 1 as a protest against this
sudden affront to the dignity of their faith. The city
1 “ 0 Lord of the Age ! ”—one of the titles of the promised
Messiah.
M .M . 121 i
MOSLEM MTSTI CS
re-echoed with the sound of their voices. And the
reverberation of their shouts reached even the out­
lying regions of the province and raised a tumult in
the hearts of men.
That very night Quddus bade farewell to his com­
panions, departed from Meshed and journeyed to Bad-
asht, where he was joined by Baha-ullah and also by
Tahirih. Here a memorable and decisive conference
took place. Every day witnessed the abrogation of a
new law or the repudiation of a long-established tradi­
tion. The veils that guarded the sanctity of the
ordinances of Islam were sternly rent asunder, and
the idols that had so long claimed the adoration of
their blind worshippers were rudely demolished. At
one meeting, suddenly, the figure of Tahirih, adorned
and unveiled, appeared before the eyes of the as­
sembled companions. Consternation seized the gath­
ering. To behold her face unveiled was to them in­
conceivable. To gaze even at her shadow they
deemed improper. Yet quietly, and with perfect dig­
nity, she advanced towards Quddus, and seated her­
self on his right-hand side. Her unruffled serenity
contrasted sharply with the affrighted countenances
of those who gazed upon her. The face of Quddus
betrayed a feeling of inexpressible anger. His atti­
tude failed, however, to move her. A feeling of joy
and triumph illumined her face. Undeterred by the
tumult she had raised, she rose from her seat without
the least premeditation, and in language like the
words of the Koran, delivered an appeal, at the end
of which she declared :
“ I am the Word which the Messiah is to utter,
the Word which will put to flight the chiefs and nobles
o f the Earth. This day is the day of rejoicing—
the day on which the fetters of the past are burst
122
THE NEW ORDER
asunder. Let those who have shared in the great
achievement arise and embrace each other.”
That memorable day witnessed the most revolu­
tionary changes in the life and habits of the assembled
followers of the Bab. Their manner of worship under­
went a sudden and fundamental transformation. The
prayers and ceremonials by which those devout wor­
shippers had been disciplined were irrevocably dis­
carded. The clarion-call of the new Order had been
sounded. And mountain and valley re-echoed the
shouts with which that enthusiastic band hailed the
extinction of the old and the birth of the new Day.
Husayn had now, July 1848, decided to proceed on
a pilgrimage to Kerbela. Before he had departed,
however, a messenger arrived bearing for him the Bab’s
turban. “ Adorn your head,” was the message he
bore from the Bab, “ with my green turban; and
unfurling the Black Standard before you, hasten to
assist my beloved Quddus.” As soon as he received
the message Husayn left Meshed. Outside the city
he hoisted the Black Standard, placed the turban of
the Bab upon his head and gave the signal for the
march, and wherever he and his fellow-disciples tarried
on the way he would fearlessly proclaim the message
of the New Day.
Arriving near Damghan he pointed in the direction
of Mazindaran and said :
“ This is the way that leads to our Kerbela. I,
together with seventy-two of my companions, shall
suffer death for the sake of the Well-Beloved. Whoso
is unable to renounce the world, let him now depart,
for later he will be unable to escape.”
The news of their approach alarmed Saidul-Ulama.
The widespread and growing popularity of Husayn,
123
MOSLEM MYSTICS
the Black Standard which waved before him, above all,
the number, the discipline, and the enthusiasm of his
companions, combined to arouse the implacable hatred
of that cruel and overbearing doctor of the law. He
bade the crier summon the people of Barfurush to the
masjid and announce that a sermon of such mo­
mentous consequence was to be delivered by him that
no loyal adherent of Islam could afford to ignore it.
As a result, an immense crowd of men, women and
children thronged the masjid, saw him ascend the
pulpit, fling his turban to the ground, tear open the
neck of his shirt, and bewail the plight into which
the Faith had fallen.
“ Awake,” he thundered from the pulpit, “ for our
enemies stand at our very doors ready to wipe out
all that we cherish as pure and holy in Islam. Should
we fail to resist them, none will be left to survive
their onslaught. It is the duty of all the inhabitants
of Barfurush, both young and old, both men and
women, to arm themselves against these contemptible
wreckers of Islam, and by every means resist their
onset. To-morrow, at the hour of dawn, let all of
you arise and march out to exterminate their forces.”
The entire congregation rose in response. His pas­
sionate eloquence, the undisputed authority he exer­
cised over them, and the dread of losing their own lives
and property combined to induce them to make every
preparation for the coming encounter. They armed
themselves with every available weapon and set out at
break of day to face and slay the enemies of their Faith.
Three miles from Barfurush Husayn and his com­
panions encountered their enemies. A fierce ex­
pression of savagery rested upon their countenances.
The foulest imprecations fell unceasingly from their
124
FIGHT AT BARFURTJSH
lips. And Husayn’s companions, in the face of this
angry populace, made as if to unsheathe their swords.
“ Not yet,” commanded their leader, “ not until the
aggressor forces us to protect ourselves must our
swords leave iheir scabbards.”
Scarcely had he uttered these words than the enemy
opened fire and six of the companions were imme­
diately hurled to the ground.
“ Beloved leader,” exclaimed one of them, “ we have
followed you with no other desire than to sacrifice
ourselves in the path of the Cause. Allow us, we pray
you, to defend ourselves.”
“ The time is not yet,” replied Husayn, “ the
number is not yet complete.”
A bullet immediately afterwards pierced the heart
of one of his companions who had walked all the way
from Meshed. And at the sight of that devoted com­
panion fallen dead at his feet, Husayn raised his eyes
to heaven and prayed :
“ Behold, 0 God, my God, the plight of Thy chosen
companions, and witness the welcome which these
people have accorded Thy loved ones. Thou knowest
we cherish no other desire than to guide them to the
way of Truth and to confer upon them the knowledge
of Thy Revelation. Thou hast commanded us to
defend our lives against the assaults of the enemy.
Faithful to Thy command, I now arise with my com­
panions to resist the attack which they have launched
against us.”
Unsheathing his sword and spurring his charger into
the midst of the enemy, Husayn then pursued the
assailant of his fallen companion. Unmindful of the
bullets that rained upon him, he forced his way
through the ranks of the enemy, rode straight to the
125
MOSLEM MYSTICS
residence of the Saidul-Ulama, and thrice making the
circuit of his house, cried o u t:
“ Let that contemptible coward who has incited
the inhabitants of this town to wage holy war against
us emerge from his inglorious retreat. Has he for­
gotten that he who preaches a holy war must needs
himself march at the head of his followers, and by
his own deeds sustain their enthusiasm ? ”
To the crowd which had gathered about him
Husayn addressed these w ords:
“ 0, followers of the Prophet of God, and shiahs of
the Imams of His Faith ! Why have ye risen against
us ? Why deem the shedding of our blood meritorious
in the sight of God 1 Did we ever repudiate the truth
of your Faith % Is this the hospitality which the
Apostle of God has enjoined His followers to accord to
both the faithful and the infidel \ Consider: I alone,
with no other weapon than my sword, have emerged
unscathed from the midst of the fixe with which ye
have besieged me. God has protected me and m il
establish the ascendancy of His Faith in your eyes.”
Husayn then proceeded to the caravanserai, closed
the gates, assembled his companions, and as evening
approached, asked whether anyone would arise, and,
renouncing his life for the sake of his Faith, ascend to
the roof of the caravanserai and sound the call to
prayer. A youth gladly responded. No sooner had
the opening words of “ Allah-a-Akbar ” dropped from
his bps than a bullet struck, and killed him.
“ Let another among you arise,” urged Husayn,
“ and with the self-same renunciation, proceed with
the prayer which that youth was unable to finish.”
Another youth started to his feet and had no sooner
uttered the words, “ I bear witness that Mahomed is
126
ARRI VAL OP QUDDT7S
the Apostle of God ” than he, too, was struck down.
A third youth, at the bidding of his Chief, attempted
to complete the prayer, and was uttering the words,
“ There is no God, but God,” when he, in his turn, fell
dead. The fall of the third companion decided
Husayn to throw open the gate of the caravanserai.
Leaping on horseback and followed by his compan­
ions, he charged his assailants and decimated the
forces that had been arrayed against him.
A few days later he proceeded to the shrine of
Shaykh Tabarsi, and on reaching it he commenced to
build a fort, where he was soon to be joined by Quddus.
The arrival of Quddus was enthusiastically wel­
comed, and he now took over the leadership. Every
morning and every afternoon Quddus would summon
Husayn and the most distinguished of his companions
and ask them to chant the writings of the Bab. Des­
pising all danger and oblivious of his own needs
Quddus continued his daily communion with his
Beloved, writing Has praises, and rousing the defenders
of the fort to fresh exertions.
“ My soul is wedded to the telling of Thee,” he was
wont to exclaim ; “ remembrance of Thee is the stay
and solace of my life ! I glory in that I was the first
to suffer ignominiously for Thy sake in Shiraz. I long
to be the first to suffer a death that shall be worthy
of Thy Cause.”
On the other hand, the imperious Saidul-Ulama ad­
dressed a burning appeal to Nasirudin, the Shah who
had recently ascended the throne.
“ The standard of revolt,” he pleaded, “ has been
raised by the contemptible sect of the Babis. This
wretched band of irresponsible agitators has dared
to strike at the very foundations of Your Majesty’s
authority. They have built themselves a fort and are
127
MOSLEM MYSTICS
directing a campaign against you. With unswerving
obstinacy they have proclaimed their independent
sovereignty—a sovereignty that would abase to the
dust the imperial diadem of your illustrious ancestors.
You stand at the threshold of your reign. What
greater triumph could signalise the commencement of
your rule than the extirpation of this hateful creed ?
But should you vacillate in your policy I feel it my
duty to warn you, that not only this Province, but
the whole of Persia will repudiate your authority and
surrender to their cause.”
The Shah referred the matter to the military author­
ities and instructed them to take whatever measures
they might deem fit to eradicate these disturbers of
his realm. An army was raised. The bread and
even the water for the defenders were intercepted.
But, ere the commander launched his attack, he sent
a messenger to Husayn to ascertain the purpose of
his activities.
“ Tell your master,” replied Husayn, “ that we
utterly repudiate any intention of subverting the
foundation of the monarchy. Our Cause concerns
the revelation of the Promised One and is a matter
for the spiritual authorities. Let the prince who
commands the army direct the ulamas of Sari and
Barfurush to betake themselves to this place, and ask
us to demonstrate the validity of the Revelation
proclaimed by the Bab. Let the Koran decide as
to who speaks the truth. Let the prince himself
decide as to who speaks the truth. And let him also
decide how he would treat us if we fail to establish
the truth of our Cause.”
The appeal had no effect on the prince. Three days
later he launched an attack upon the fort. Quartering
his hosts upon a height he gave the signal to open fire.
128
SIEGE OF T A B A K 8 I
“ Mount your steeds, 0 heroes of God ! ” Quddus ex­
claimed as he ordered the gates of the fort to be
thrown open. And Husayn, with two hundred and
two of his companions, ran to their horses and followed
Quddus as he rode out to the enemy’s stronghold. At
a given moment the enemy discharged a thousand
bullets, one of which struck Quddus in the mouth.
Husayn and others hastened to the rescue of his
friend and with pain and sorrow conducted their
wounded leader to the shelter of the stronghold,
where Quddus thus exhorted them :
*' We should submit to whatever is the will of God.
Though my body be afflicted, my soul is immersed in
gladness. My gratitude to God knows no bounds.
If you love me, suffer not that this joy be obscured
by the sight of your lamentations.”
This memorable engagement took place in Decem­
ber 1848. In that same month Beha-ullah set out
from Nur for the fort of Tabarsi. But on the way he
and his companions were seized and brought before
the Governor of Amul, and a Sayad urged in vehement
language that these followers of the Bab be put to
death.
“ These obscure sectarians,” he cried, “ are the
sworn enemies both of the State and of the Faith of
Islam. We must at all cost extirpate the heresy.”
The Governor, in order to check the passions which
had been aroused, ordered his attendants to prepare
the rods to bastinado the captives. They were com­
mencing to bind the servants when Baha-ullah inter­
vened, saying:
“ None of these men is guilty of any crime. I offer
myself as a willing victim of your chastisement.”
The Governor was reluctantly compelled to give
129
MOSLEM MYSTICS
orders that the Baha-ullah alone should be beaten.
The same treatment (beating by the bastinado) that
had been meted out to the Bab five months previously
at Tabriz, Baha-ullah now suffered in the presence of
the assembled ulamas of Amul. And he had the addi­
tional mortification of not being able to throw in his
lot with the defenders of fort Tabarsi.
Meanwhile, a renewed attack was made upon the
fort, and to meet it Husayn prepared himself. He
performed his ablutions, clothed himself in new gar­
ments, attired his head with the Bab’s turban, and
prepared for the approaching encounter. An indefin­
able joy illumined his face. Alone with Quddus, he
poured forth all that his enraptured soul could no
longer restrain. Then, as soon as the morning-star
had risen, he started to his feet, mounted his charger,
gave the signal to open the gates of the fort, rode out
at the head of three hundred and thirteen compan­
ions and, dashing forward, overcame the resistance
of barricade after barricade. Alas ! he was soon
struck in the breast by a bullet. Bleeding profusely,
he dismounted, staggered a few steps, and fell ex­
hausted to the ground, where he lay till two of his
companions came to the rescue and bore him to the
fort, into the presence of Quddus.
“ You have hastened the hour of your departure,”
said Quddus, “ and have abandoned me to the mercy
of my foes. Please God, I will ere long join you and
taste the sweetness of heaven’s ineffable delight.”
“ May my life be a ransom to you,” was Husayn’s
reply.
A long time elapsed before Quddus would admit his
companions to the room. When they entered it they
found that Husayn had already expired. But a faint
smile still lingered on his fa ce; and such was the
130
DEATH OF H U S A Y N
peacefulness of his countenance that he seemed only
to have fallen asleep. Quddus himself attended to
his burial, clothed him in his own shirt, and gave in­
structions for him to be laid to rest near the shrine of
Shaykh Tabarsi.
“ Well is it with you to have remained to your last
hour faithful to the Covenant of God,” said Quddus,
as he laid a parting kiss upon his eyes and forehead,
and began speaking with such poignancy that the
seven companions who were standing beside him
wept profusely and wished that they had been sacri­
ficed in his stead. Then with his own hands he laid
the body in the tomb, and cautioned those who were
standing near to conceal even from their companions
the spot which served as his resting-place.
It was at the hour of dawn on February 2, 1849,
that the burial of Husayn took place. He was but
six and thirty years of age when he quaffed the cup
of martyrdom. The traits of mind and of character
which from his very youth he displayed, the pro­
fundity of his learning, the tenacity of his faith, his
intrepid courage, his singleness of purpose, his high
sense of justice and unswerving devotion, marked him
as an outstanding figure amongthose who, by theirfives,
have borne witness to the glory of the new Revelation.
And such was his devotion to the Bab that, says one
who knew him, if anyone did so much as mention his
name he could not restrain his tears; often when en­
gaged in perusing his writings he would be almost be­
side himself with rapture, and nearly faint with joy.
For many weeks longer the siege of Tabarsi con­
tinued. The food of the besieged was reduced to the
flesh of horses. Even the leather of their saddles was
131
MOSLEM MYSTICS
consumed by these hard-pressed companions. And
they boiled the grass and devoured it with avidity.
But as their strength declined Quddus multiplied his
visits to them, and endeavoured by his words of cheer
and hope to lighten the load of their agony.
“ A glimpse of his face and the magic of his words,
would transmute our despondency into golden joy,”
said one of his followers. “ We were reinforced with
a strength of such intensity, that had the hosts of our
enemies suddenly appeared before us we felt ourselves
able to vanquish any foe.”
The enemy were surprised to find that the booming
of their guns had failed to silence the voice of prayer
and the acclamations of joy which the besieged raised
in answer to their threats. Instead of the surrender
which they expected, the call to prayer, the chanting
of the Koran, and the chorus of gladsome voices in­
toning hymns of thanksgiving unceasingly reached
their ears.
In the month of May, accompanied by the roar of
cannons, several regiments of infantry and cavalry
rushed to storm the fort. And the sound of their
approach impelled Quddus to send out his compan­
ions to repulse their attack.
“ Never since our occupation of this fort,” said he,
“ have we under any circumstances attempted to
direct an offensive against our opponents. Not until
they unchained their attack upon us did we arise
to defend our fives. Our sole, our unalterable pur­
pose has been to vindicate by our deeds, and by our
readiness to shed our blood in the path of our Faith,
the exalted character of our mission. But the hour is
fast approaching when we shall have to consummate,
this task.’
The Commander of the enemy forces now sent an
132
B E T R A Y A L OF QUDDUS
emissary requesting that two representatives be dele­
gated by the beseiged to conduct confidential nego­
tiations with him in the hope of arriving at a peaceful
settlement. Accordingly, Quddus instructed two of
his companions to act as his representatives. They
were courteously received and the Commander wrote
in the margin of a K oran:
“ I swear by this most holy Book, by the righteous­
ness of God who has revealed it, and the Mission of
Him who was inspired with its verses, that I cherish
no other purpose than to promote peace and friendli­
ness between us. Come forth from your stronghold
and rest assured that no hand will be stretched forth
against you.”
Quddus received the Koran from the hand of his
messenger, reverently kissed it and said: “ 0, our
Lord, decide between us and between our people with
truth ; for the best to decide art Thou.” Then he
bade his companions prepare to leave the fort. “ By
our response to their invitation,” he told them, “ we
shall demonstrate the sincerity of our intentions.”
Attired with the green turban the Bab had sent him,
Quddus mounted the favourite steed of the Com­
mander, which had been sent for him. His chief
companions, sayads and learned divines rose before
him, the remainder followed on foot, two hundred and
two in all.
Then followed an act of grossest treachery. Fire
was opened upon them. Any who escaped the bullets
were killed by the swords of the officers and spears
of the men. Of the captives a few were cut to pieces
with the sword, others were tom asunder, a number
was bound to trees and riddled with bullets, and still
others were blown from the mouths of ceuwon and
133
MOSLEM MYSTICS
consigned to the flames. Yet in the very throes of
death these unconquerable heroes were still heard to
utter the words, “ Holy, holy, 0 Lord our God, Lord
of the angels and the spirit.”
Quddus himself was not killed with the others : he
was detained as a prisoner and taken to Barfurush.
There the Commander was reluctant to ill-treat his
captive. But the hatred with which Quddus and his
Cause inspired the Saidul-Ulama blazed into furious
rage as he witnessed the increasing evidence that the
Commander was inclined to allow so formidable an
opponent to slip from his grasp. Day and night he
remonstrated with him. In the fury of his despair he
appealed to the mob. And the whole of Barfurush
were aroused by the persistency of his call, till, fearing
that his own life might be endangered, the Commander
summoned to his presence the leading ulamas, to con­
sult with them as to the measures that should be taken
to allay the popular excitem ent; and Quddus also
was brought before him.
“ For what reason,” the Saidul-Ulama impertinent­
ly inquired of Quddus, “ have you, by wearing a green
turban, arrogated to yourself a right which only he
who is a true descendant of the Prophet can claim ?
Do you not know that whoso defies this sacred
tradition is accursed of God ? ”
Intimidated by the imprecations of the ulamas, and
forgetful of his oath, the Commander abjectly sur­
rendered Quddus to the hands of his unrelenting foes.
And the people arose to perpetrate upon their victim
acts of such atrocious cruelty as no pen can describe.
He was stripped of his clothes, his turban bestowed
upon him by the Bab was befouled. Barefooted,
bareheaded, and loaded with chains, he was paraded
through the streets, followed and scorned by the entire
134
MA RT Y RD O M OP QUDDUS
population of the town. Assailed with knives and axes
by the scum of the women, his body was pierced and
mutilated and eventually delivered to the flames.
Yet, amidst all his torments Quddus was heard
whispering forgiveness to his foes. “ Forgive, 0 my
God, the trespasses of these people. Deal with them
in thy mercy, for they know not what we have already
discovered and cherish. Show them, 0 God, the Way
of Truth, and turn their ignorance into faith.”
These things happened in May 1849. And all this
time tales of the signs and wonders which the Bab’s
unnumbered admirers had witnessed were being trans­
mitted from mouth to mouth, and had given rise to a
wave of unprecedented enthusiasm which rapidly
spread over the whole country. It swept over Tehe­
ran itself and roused the ecclesiastical dignitaries to
fresh exertions against him. For they trembled at
the progress of a Movement which, if allowed to run
its course, would soon engulf the institutions upon
which their authority and their very existence de­
pended. They saw on every side increasing evidence
of a faith and devotion such as they themselves had
been powerless to evoke, of a loyalty which struck at
the very roots of the fabric which their own hands
had reared, and which all the resources at their com­
mand had as yet failed to undermine. The Shah’s
minister accordingly issued orders for the immediate
convocation of the ecclesiastical dignitaries of Tabriz
for the express purpose of arraigning the Bab and
of seeking means for the extinction of his influ­
ence. And the Bab was brought to Tabriz for this
investigation.
This convocation was held in the official residence
135
MOSLEM MYSTICS
of the Governor, and a number of the most distin­
guished Shaykhis and doctors of divinity were amongst
the convened. The heir to the throne himself at­
tended. Nizamul-Ulama presided. A multitude of
people besieged the entrance to the hall, and were
pressing forward in such large numbers that a passage
had to be forced for the Bab.
As he entered the assembly the expression of con­
fidence which sat upon his brow and the spirit of
power which shone from his whole being deeply
impressed those who saw him, and a mysterious silence
fell upon men, tillit wasbroken by the Nizamul-Ulama :
“ Who do you claim to be,” he asked the Bab,
“ and what is the message which you have brought ? ”
“ I am, I am, I am the Promised One ! ” exclaimed
the Bab, “ I am the One whose name you have for
a thousand years invoked, at whose mention you have
risen, whose advent you have longed to witness, and
the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed to
God to hasten. Verily I say, it behoves the people,
both of the East and of the West, to obey my Word
and to pledge allegiance to my Person.”
Immediately after he had declared himself to be
the Promised One a feeling of awe seized those who
were present. They dropped their hands in silent
confusion. The pallor of their faces betrayed the
agitation of their hearts. But not all were thus awed.
A certain Mulla Mahomed who had himself, like the
Bab, been a disciple of Kazim at Kerbela, sternly
reprimanded him, saying:
“ You wretched and immature lad of Shiraz ! You
have already subverted Iraq : would you now raise a
like turmoil in Adhirbayjan ? ”
“ Your Honour,” replied the Bab, “ I have not
136
TRI AL OP BAB
come hither of my own accord. I have been sum­
moned to this place.”
“ The claim which you have advanced,” said the
Nizamul-Ulama, “ is a stupendous one : it must needs
be supported by incontrovertible evidence.”
“ The most convincing evidence of the truth of the
Mission of the Prophet of God is admittedly his own
word,” replied the Bab. “ He himself testifies to this
truth : ‘ Is it not enough for them that We have sent
down to Thee the Book ? ’ The power to produce
such evidence has been given to me by God. Within
the space of two days and two nights I declare myself
able to reveal verses of such number as will equal
the whole of the Koran.”
A systematic course of browbeating and mockery
was now pursued by a hostile set in the assembly.
The Nizamul-Ulama was sorely displeased at their
attitude ; and a few others were, likewise, inclined to
denounce the disgraceful treatment being meted out
to the Bab. But the Mulla persisted in his vehement
denunciation:
“ I warn you,” he loudly protested. “ if you allow
this man to pursue his activities, the day will come
when the entire population of Tabriz will have flocked
to his standard. When that day comes, if he signify
his wish that all the ulamas of Tabriz, that the heir-
apparent himself, should be expelled from the city
and that he alone should assume the reins of civil
and ecclesiastical authority, no one of you will be able
to oppose him. The entire city, nay, the whole pro­
vince, will on that day with one voice support him.”
These persistent denunciations excited the appre­
hension of the authorities, and they took counsel
together how the progress of his Faith might be re­
sisted. Finally, it was decided that the Bab should
receive, at the hands of the Governor’s bodyguard,
M
.M
. 137 K
MOSLEM MYSTICS
the chastisement which he deserved. The guard, how­
ever, refused to accede to the request, perferring not
to interfere in a matter which they considered the
sole concern of the ulamas. Thereupon the Shaykul-
Islam decided to inflict the punishment himself, and
summoning the Bab to his home he, with his own
hand, bastinadoed him.
From Tabriz the Bab was taken back to Chihrig,
where he remained for some months. Meanwhile, in
other parts of Persia than in that part in which
Husayn and Quddus had lost their lives disturbances
had occurred. And by now the authorities in Teheran
were alarmed at the recurrent manifestations of an
indomitable will and a fierce and inflexible tenacity
of faith. Though the Imperial army had everywhere
triumphed, yet it was clear that the spirit responsible
for such rare heroism was by no means vanquished.
The loyalty which the remnants of that scattered
band bore to their captive leader remained unim­
paired. Far from being extinguished it had blazed
up more intense and devastating than ever. Above
all, he who had kindled that flame and nourished the
spirit was still alive; and, despite his isolation, he
was able to exercise his influence to the full. Extin­
guish that light, choke the stream at its very source,
and the torrent that had brought so much devastation
in its wake would run dry. Such was the thought
in the mind of the Grand Vazir, who, summoning
his counsellors, communicated to them his fears and
acquainted them with his plans.
“ Behold the storm,” he exclaimed, “ which the
Faith of the Bab has provoked in the hearts of my
fellow countrymen! Nothing short of his public
execution can enable the distracted country to re­
cover its tranquillity. If you are able to advise a
138
A R RA I GN ME NT OF BAB
better remedy acquaint me with it, for my sole pur­
pose is to ensure the peace of my countrymen.”
Not a single voice dared venture a reply, except that
of the Minister of War, who urged that to put to death
a banished Sayad for the deeds of a band of irrespon­
sible agitators would manifestly be an act of cruelty.
Disregarding the advice of his counsellor the Vazir
despatched orders for the Bab to be brought again
to Tabriz. And three days after the Bab’s arrival,
a further order was received from Vazir commanding
the Governor to execute his prisoner on the very
day the order should reach him. The Governor, how­
ever, objected. He expressed to the bearer of the
order his consternation. “ The task I am called upon
to do,” he said, “ is a task that only ignoble persons
would accept.”
This refusal being communicated to the Vazir, he
thereupon ordered the bearer himself to carry out
without delay and in its entirety the instructions
previously given.
Deprived of his turban and sash, twin emblems of
his noble lineage, the Bab, together with Siyyid
Husayn, his amanuensis, was taken to the barracks.
As he approached the courtyard a youth suddenly
leaped forward, forcing his way through the crowd
and utterly ignoring the perils which such an attempt
might involve. His face was haggard, his feet were
bare, his hair dishevelled. Breathless with excite­
ment and exhausted with fatigue he flung himself
at the feet of the Bab and, seizing the hem of his
garment, passionately implored him :
“ Send me not from thee, 0 Master. Wherever
thou goest, suffer me to follow thee.”
“ Mahomed Ali,” answered the Bab, “ arise and rest
139
MOSLEM MYSTI CS
assured that you will be with me. To-morrow you
shall witness what God hath decreed.”
Siyyid Husayn bore witness to the following :
“ That night the face of the Bab was aglow with a
joy such as had never before shone from his coun­
tenance. Indifferent to the storm that raged about
him he conversed with us in gay and cheerful mood.
The sorrows that had weighed so heavily on him
seemed to have completely vanished. Their weight
appeared to have dissolved away in the consciousness
of coming victory.”
Early in the morning the Governor ordered his
head lictor to conduct the Bab into the presence
of the leading mullas and obtain from them the
authorization required for his execution. No sooner
had the lictor secured the necessary documents than
he delivered his captive into the hands of Sam Khan,
Colonel of the Christian regiment of Urumiyya, assur­
ing him that he could proceed with his task now
that he had received the sanction of the civil and
ecclesiastical authorities of the realm. The youth
Mahomed Ali, bursting into tears, entreated to be
allowed to remain with his master. So he also was
delivered into the hands of Sam Khan.
Sam Khan then ordered his men to drive a nail
into the pillar separating two rooms and to make
fast two ropes to that nail, from which the Bab and
his companion were to be separately suspended.
Mahomed Ah begged Sam Khan to have his body
placed in such a position that it would shield the
body of the Bab. And he was eventually placed so
that his head reposed on the breast of his master.
As soon as they were fastened a regiment of soldiers
ranged itself in three files, each of which was ordered
to open its fire in turn. The smoke of the firing
140
E X E C U T I ON OP BAB
was such as to turn the light of the noonday sun
into darkness. And as soon as the cloud of smoke
had cleared away an astounded multitude, who had
crowded on to the roof of the barracks as well as
the tops of adjoining houses, beheld a scene which
their eyes could scarcely believe. There, standing
before them alive and unhurt, was the companion of
the Bab, whilst the Bab himself had vanished un­
injured from their sight. Though the cords with
which they had been suspended were cut in pieces by
the bullets, yet their bodies had miraculously escaped.
“ The Bab has gone from our sight,” rang out the
voices of the bewildered multitude. They set out
in search for him, and eventually found him in a room
engaged in conversation with Siyyid Husayn.
Stunned by the force of this tremendous revelation.
Sam Khan ordered his men to leave the barracks
at once, and he refused ever again to associate his
regiment with any act injurious to the Bab.
No sooner had Sam Khan departed than the Colonel
of the bodyguard volunteered to carry out the execu­
tion. On the same wall, and in the same manner,
the Bab and his companion were again suspended,
while the regiment was formed in line to fire on them.
“ Had you believed in me, 0 wayward generation,”
were the last words of the Bab to the gazing multi­
tude, as the regiment was preparing to fire, “ every
one of you would have followed the example of this
youth and willingly would have sacrificed himself in
my path. The day will come when you will recog­
nize me. But in that day I shall have ceased to be
with you.”
The regiment fired, and this time the bodies of the
Bab and his companion were shattered and blended
into one mass of mingled flesh and bone.
141
MOS L EM MYSTICS
That very moment a gale arose and swept over
the city. A whirlwind of dust of incredible density
obscured the light of the sun and blinded the eyes of
the people. The entire city remained enveloped in
darkness from noon till night.
This martyrdom of the Bab took place on July
9, 1850, thirty-one years from the date of his birth.
His body was dead. His spirit lived on. Husayn
had been slain in battle. Quddus had been done to
death in captivity. But Baha-ullah lived. The One
who shall be made manifest was alive. And in him
and in others had been engendered such love for
the Bab and what he stood for as, in the words of
the chronicler, no eye had ever beheld nor mortal
heart conceived: if branches of every tree were
turned into pens, and all the seas into ink, and Earth
and Heaven rolled into one parchment, the immen­
sity of that love would still remain untold. This
love for the Cause still survived. And it was suffi­
cient. Baha-ullah was, indeed, despoiled of his pos­
sessions, deserted by his friends, driven into exile
from his native land and, even in exile, confined to
his house. But in him the Cause was still alive—
and more than alive, purified and ennobled by the
fiery trials through which it had passed.
Under the wise control and direction of Baha-ullah
from his prison-house, first at Baghdad and then at
Acre in Syria, there grew what is now known as the
Bahai Movement which, silently propagating itself,
has now spread to Europe and America as well as to
India and Egypt, while the bodily remains of the
Bab, long secretly guarded, now find a resting-place
on Mount Carmel in a Tomb-shrine, which is a place
of pilgrimage to visitors from all over the world.
142
CHAPTER III
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
STE THERESE DE LISIEUX
T
HE Tomb-shrine of the Bab has been erected
on Mount Carmel. And to Mount Carmel
have resorted hermits and pilgrims for at
least two thousand years. In the time of Samuel
there lived on Carmel hermits known as “ Sons of the
Prophets.” In the fourth century a.d. Carmel was a
place of pilgrimage. And in about a.d. 1155 an Order
of such vigour was founded that it spread similar
foundations in many parts of Europe. It was known
as the Order of Mount Carmel. And among its
branches was that founded in 1582 at Avila in Spain
by that great mystic Ste Teresa. The old Order had
become lax, but in this new foundation the practices
of poverty, penance and the contemplative life were
carried out in a truly austere fashion. In the early
part of the nineteenth century a convent of this Order
was established at the little town of Lisieux in Nor­
mandy. And among the nuns of the convent was
one now known as Ste Thérèse de Lisieux, and also
as “ The Little Flower.”
Though she lived for only twenty-four years, from
1873 to 1897, and only in a secluded convent in a
remote provincial town, yet in this short space she
had made such an impression that a quarter of a
143
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
century later she was, with tremendous pomp and
ceremony and after protracted examination, declared
by the Pope to be a saint. In the presence of twenty-
three crimson-robed Cardinals, of some two hundred
other prelates, and of thousands of people inside St.
Peter’s at Rome, Pope Pius X I pronounced these
words : “ We declare the blessed Thérèse of the Child
Jesus to be a Saint of God’s Church ; and we in­
scribe her name in the catalogue of Saints.” And so
popular was this canonization that for the first time in
the history of such ceremonies there came a thunder­
clap of applause. The multitude could not contain
its joy. The silver trumpets sounded, the great
bells of St. Peter rang out, and for an hour were
answered by all the bells in Rome. Further, she is
known and reverenced and beloved throughout the
world. Her autobiography has been translated into
every European language, and into many other non-
European. Over a million copies of it have been
sold. Thousands of pilgrims every year visit her
grave and the convent wherein she lived. People
look for miracles. And thousands believe that to
this day she works them. But surely the greatest
miracle of all is that one so young and tender, and so
secluded from the general life of the world, should
in this short time have been able to make so deep
an impression upon the human race.
What was the secret of that power, and whence
she derived it, I would now inquire.
The Little Flower, as Ste Thérèse de Lisieux is
everywhere known, is often portrayed in pictures
wearing an insipid, sentimental expression without
any vigour or spirit in it. But delicate, gentle and
loving as she was, she had the unflinching courage
of a hero, and her nerve was of steel. She would
144
STE. T H i R i J S E ’ S CHARACTER
bite her lip through rather than show the pain she
suffered. She was French of the French, with all the
brightness, the ardency and the vigour characteristic
of her country-women, and all their grace of expres­
sion. She was born of parents both of whom were
deeply religious, so that she inherited a religious dis­
position. And in her this disposition was vehemently
religious. Through life she retained a childlike sim­
plicity, but with that simplicity went also that per­
tinacity of a child which will not be denied what it
has set itself on : her will was imperious ; she would
not be thwarted. Gentle as she might be she could
be as impetuous as a mountain torrent, and unbe­
lievably stubborn. And humble as she was she had
Everestian ambitions ; nothing short of the highest
would satisfy her. But most characteristic of all
was her joyousness and lovability. Even reading
about her one cannot help falling in love with her.
An inexhaustible fountain of love seemed to be per­
petually welling up within her. A touch, and it
would gush forth. And this capacity for love meant
extreme, abnormal sensitivity—extreme capacity for
feeling pain as well as joy.
This was her innate disposition, the foundation on
which she started and the fountain of her life. And
from outside she early received an idea which pro­
foundly affected her thought for the rest of her life,
and which even at the age of three years she applied
to circumstances with all the ruthless logic of a child
— and of a French child at that. She was brought
up to believe that the joys of heaven would only
be reached when this earthly life was over. She was
devoted to her mother and, wishing her to be happy
as quickly as possible, she hoped her mother would
soon die. To that extreme did ¿he apply this idea
145
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
which had so early been implanted by those around
her.
She was bom in 1873, the ninth child of Louis
and Zelie Martin, lower middle-class provincials of
France. And from the first she was enveloped in
love. She was the youngest child, and both father
and mother poured all their affection on her, while
her sisters also were devoted to her. Moreover her
home was a hot-house of religion. With her wilful­
ness and headstrong impetuosity she might, she thinks,
have become very wicked. But she was checked from
erring and shown the way to perfection. And even
as a child she possessed great self-control. She could
keep herself in as well as let herself go.
And from quite early days she had a remarkable
love of nature. Much of her life appears to us as
forced. But through all this constraint, love of nature
persisted. Her childish heart was touched “ by the
vision of the cornfields, studded with cornflowers,
poppies and marguerites ” ; and she loved “ far-
stretching views, sunlit spaces, and stately trees.”
All the beauties of nature cast their spell upon her
and raised her soul to Heaven. The stars she would
look up at “ with untold delight.” Orion’s belt had
a peculiar fascination for her and looked to her like
a cluster of diamonds. With her head thrown back
she would gaze untiringly at the starry skies.
The sea she saw for the first time when she was
between six and seven.
“ I could not turn away my eyes; its majesty,
the roaring of the waves, the whole vast spectacle
deeply impressed me and spoke to my soul of God’s
power and greatness. . . . That same evening, at
the hour when thewsun seems to sink into the broad
146
HEE SP I BI TUA L DEVELOPMENT
expanse of waters, leaving behind it a trail of light,
I sat on a lonely rock and let my gaze linger on this
path of splendour.”
Snow, too, had a great attraction for her. She
loved its purity and radiance. But it was flowers that
she chiefly adored. And among flowers in especial
the rose. It is because of her love of flowers that she
is known as The Little Flower.
When she was still only four her first great sorrow
came. Her mother died. And for some years her
naturally happy disposition deserted her. From being
lively and demonstrative she became timid and shy,
and so sensitive that a look was often sufficient to
make her burst into tears. She could not bear to
be noticed by or to meet strangers. She was only
at ease with her dear ones at home. She had made
her sister, Pauline, her “ mother ” ; and her father’s
affectionate heart gave her its loving care.
Her spiritual development soon commenced. As a
little child her religious instinct spontaneously showed
itself in her making tiny altars in a recess in the
garden-wall and decorating them with flowers. And
in her bedroom she arranged a little altar in her own
way, with minute candlesticks, vases and flowers.
Both her father and her sisters set themselves to
train her spiritually. She was taught to pray when
quite small, and prayer became very natural and
necessary to her. But entirely of herself she early
learned to meditate—meditate, that is, in the un­
premeditated European way, not in the concentrated
intense fashion of the Indians. When out fishing
with her father she would sit on the grass at a little
distance from him and, without knowing she was
meditating, deep reflections would own her mind.
Far-off sounds wafted towards her on the murmuring
147
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTI C
breeze, and faint notes of music from the neighbour­
ing town tinged her thoughts with melancholy, she
writes, and she understood more fully that only in
Heaven would there be unclouded joy.
Her first impression of the nearness of God came to
her, as it comes to many children, from a thunder­
storm. Angry clouds had darkened the blue sky. A
storm burst overhead. Vivid lightning flashed. And
a thunderbolt fell in a field close by. Not a bit
frightened, she looked round her on every side to
lose nothing o f the splendid scene. She was over­
joyed— in a rapture. God seemed so near.
Joy also came to her from confession. When she
made her first confession and received absolution, the
priest exhorting her to be devout to Our Lady, she
came away feeling more light-hearted and happy than
ever before. The influence she had received remained
for a long time with her. She afterwards went to
confession for all the great Feasts, and they filled her
with transports of joy. The Feasts themselves also
she loved. They were to her a foretaste of Heaven.
Yet with all her capacity for enjoyment, and with
all her happy nature, she had also great suffering.
Naturally timid and sensitive and indisposed to play
like other children, she suffered much from her elder
companions at the school to which she was sent at
the age of eight and a half. She was not spoilt at
hom e; she was corrected for any faults. And this
was necessary, for she had an imperious temper and
could stamp her foot in a fury. But the little kind­
nesses of home were a real necessity for her. Without
them she might not, in spite of her courage, have
been able to endure the bruises on her delicate nature.
And soon her second “ mother ” was to be removed
from her to a convent. “ I beheld life as it really
148
A VI S I ON
is,” she said, “ full of suffering and constant partings,
and I shed most bitter tears.” As she entered the
church she was crying bitterly, and she even wondered
how the sun could go on shining.
But already she began to feel her vocation. She
felt that the Carmelite Convent to which her sister
had gone was where God wished her also to go. And
she felt it so strongly there was no possible room for
doubt. It was not the dream of an impressionable
child, she averred, but “ the certainty of a divine
call.” And it brought with it a wonderful peace.
She carried her resolution into execution and man­
aged to obtain an interview alone with the Mother
Prioress. The kindly Mother expressed her belief in
Therese’s vocation but told her that postulants—
seekers for admission to a religious order—were not
received at the age of nine; she must wait till she
was sixteen.
Under the strain of disappointment and waiting
her health gave way. She became dangerously ill.
She had acute headaches. She uttered terrifying
cries, spoke horrible nonsense, and had shocking hal­
lucinations. It was feared that her mind was be­
coming deranged. She seemed to be at death’s door.
But in her room was a statue of the Virgin Mary,
and this was to bring her relief. Utterly exhausted,
and finding no help on earth, she sought her heavenly
Mother’s aid and entreated her with all her heart
to have pity on her. In the event followed one of
those visions which so influenced her life, and which
will be described in her own words.
“ Suddenly the statue became animated and radi­
antly beautiful—with a divine beauty that no words
of mine can ever convey. The look upon Our Lady’s
face was unspeakably kind and compassionate, but
149
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
what penetrated to the very depths of my soul was
her gracious smile. Instantly all my pain vanished,
my eyes filled, and big tears fell silently—tears of
purest heavenly joy.”
She decided she would tell no one, for if she did
her happiness would leave her. But her Cousin
Marie, who was in the room at the time and had
been earnestly praying to the Virgin Mary, had seen
Thérèse gazing fixedly on the statue, had seen how
her face had become transfigured, and had been filled
with wonder and admiration at her supernatural ex­
pression and said to herself : “ Thérèse is cured.”
Further, Marie was convinced that the Blessed Virgin,
while restoring Thérèse’s bodily health, had granted
her some hidden grace. So when she was alone with
Thérèse she pressed her with inquiries. And Thérèse,
unable to resist her tender solicitations and astonished
at finding her secret already known, told her every­
thing. The result was, as she had foreseen. Her
happiness was turned into sorrow. For four years
the remembrance of the vision caused her real pain.
Marie had begged to be allowed to tell the nuns at
Carmel and Thérèse had not liked to refuse. Conse­
quently, when she next visited the convent the nuns
kept asking her questions. These questions troubled
and grieved her. Had she only kept her secret her
happiness would have been secure, she said.
As to the statue which had been the indirect means
of bringing this vision to Ste Thérèse, it is a copy
nearly three feet high of the Madonna carved by
Bouchardon in the eighteenth century for the Church
of St. Sulpice in Paris. It was afterwards taken to
the infirmary of the convent. And in her last illness,
when Ste Thérèse was taken to the infirmary she
said to her Cousin Marie who was also there, as on
160
HER LOVE OP ART
the former occasion : “ Never has She seemed to me
more beautiful, but to-day it is the statue, whereas
that other day you know well it was not.”
Ste Thérèse was now fast emerging from childhood
and was developing into a girl. We have already
seen how fond she was of nature. She had also the
Frenchwoman’s love of art. Her sister Pauline used
to show her pictures. The sight of “ The Little
Flower of the Divine Prisoner ” suggested to her
so many thoughts that it cast her into a kind of
ecstasy. From her earliest days she had had in her
heart the desire to paint. She had watched her sister
Pauline painting, and she had heard her sister Céline
offered painting lessons, and she had always wished
to paint herself, but she had kept in silence about
it. To express her thoughts in verse was another of
her desires. And this to some extent she was able
to satisfy later, and her little poems have been added
to her autobiography.
In reading also she took delight and preferred
books to games. She loved tales of chivalry and of
the patriotic deeds of the heroines of France. She
longed to do as they had done. Especially would she
emulate Ste Joan of Arc.
She was now thirteen and the time for her first
Communion was approaching. During three months
she was prepared for it. Her sister Pauline had
written a little book for her help ; and another sister
spoke to her every evening, arousing her ardour and
telling of the imperishable riches which are within our
reach and of the folly of seeking the perishable riches
of this world. The last days of the preparation were
spent in retreat in the Abbey School. Days of joy
they were to her—such joy as could not, she be­
hoved, be experienced outside a religious house. The
151
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
number of children was small. Each could receive
individual care. Motherly affection was shown them
by the mistresses. And every night the first mistress
tenderly kissed her.
“ At last there dawned the most beautiful day
of all the days of my life,” she writes, ‘‘ How per­
fectly I remember even the smallest detail of those
sacred hours ! The joyful awakening, the reverent
and tender embraces of my mistresses and older com­
panions . . . above all, our entrance into the chapel
and the melody of the morning hymn . . . ‘ How
sweet was the first embrace of Jesus ! ’ It was in­
deed an embrace of love. I felt that I was loved,
and I said : ‘ I love Thee and I give myself to Thee
for ever.’ Jesus asked nothing of me, and claimed
no sacrifice ; for a long time He and little Thérèse
had known and understood each other. That day our
meeting was more than simple recognition ; it was a
perfect union. We were no longer two. Thérèse had
disappeared like a drop of water lost in the immensity
of the ocean. Jesus alone remained. He was the
Master and King. Had not Thérèse asked Him to
take away the liberty which frightened her ? She
felt herself so weak and frail that she wished to be
for ever united to the Divine Strength.
“ And then my joy became so intense, so deep,
that it could not be restrained : tears of happiness
welled up and overflowed. My companions were as­
tonished. No one knew that all the joy of Heaven
had come down into one heart, and that that heart
— exiled, weak and mortal— could not contain it with­
out tears. . . . Joy alone, a joy too deep for words,
overflowed within me.”
The next morning seemed veiled in melancholy,
and she longed for the day when she could receive
Jesus again.
152
HER AMBI TI ON
At her second Communion her tears flowed once
more with inexpressible sweetness, while she recalled
and repeated again and again the words of St.
P aul: “ I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in
me.
Soon now she went into retreat again to prepare
for Confirmation, and made ready with the greatest
care for the coming of the Holy Ghost. Like the
Apostles, she looked with joy for the promised Com­
forter. But at the time of Confirmation she did not
feel the mighty wind of the First Pentecost; only
the gentle breeze which the prophet Elias heard on
Mount Horeb.
The crucial stage of her life was now approaching.
Within was the imperative urge— the ambition—the
aspiration. From without was the insistent call which
to her sensitive ears came clear and commanding.
And before her were obstacles and trials and dis­
appointments which only her not-to-be-denied, im­
petuous will could overcome, and suffering which only
her indomitable courage could endure.
Her supreme ambition had from childhood been
“ to love God as He had never been loved before.”
She was bom with an inexhaustible capacity for love.
She was always yearning to be loved. And all her
great love she would wish to lavish upon God and
accomplish to perfection His designs on her soul.
This was her heart’s desire. Holiness which was
truly holy she desired. She would love Jesus—even
madly. Love alone drew her. Under love’s sweet
rule she would not merely m arch: she would fly.
She knew she was bom for great things. And at
twenty-two she wrote that she still had “ the same
daring confidence ” that one day she would “ be­
come a great, saint.” She longed for the beauties of
k .x . 153 l
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
Heaven, and it was to win these for her soul that
she pined to be trained.
Such were her ambitions and aspirations. And
while still very young—only fourteen—the clear call
came. “ The divine call was becoming so insistent,”
she wrote, “ that had it been necessary for me to
go through fire to follow Our Lord I would have
cast myself into the flames.” The call was to Carmel,
that austere convent which two of her sisters had
already entered.
She longed to enter Carmel. But how could she
persuade her father to let his youngest— and perhaps
dearest—girl go where he would only be able to
see her occasionally and then only under severe re­
strictions ? And she was still only fourteen and a
half. Terrible struggles she went through before she
could decide to make the request. She chose the
Feast of Pentecost, and prayed for light from the
Holy Ghost. In the afternoon, seeing her father sit­
ting in the garden, she silently went and sat by his
side, her eyes already wet with tears. He looked at
her tenderly, and pressing her to his heart, said :
“ What is it, little Queen ? Tell me.” Through her
tears she spoke of her great desire to enter Carmel.
He too wept but said not one word to turn h er: he
merely pointed out that she was still very young, and
then, yielding to her entreaties, gave his consent.
Having obtained this, she thought she could
straightway enter the convent. To her dismay she
was told that the Superior of the convent, a priest,
would not allow her to enter till she was twenty-one.
She went with her father to him, but no urging from
them both would make him change his mind.
She could only get over this obstacle by going to
the Bishop of Bayeux. She went to him with her
154
A U D I EN C E WI T H POPE
father, and to make herself look older, put her hair
u p ! Her father left her to make her own petition.
It was a trial to her to do this, but she spoke with
all the eloquence she could command. The Bishop
was kindly but non-committal. He must refer, he
said, to the Superior of the convent. And this, of
course, was fatal to her desire, for the Superior had
already refused. Her only resource now was to appeal
to the Pope himself, and this she determined to make.
A pilgrimage was starting for Rome, and she and
her father joined it. They arrived there in November
1887, and with the other pilgrims obtained an audience
of the Pope. To obtain the permission to enter
Carmel she would have to ask the Holy Father;
and she trembled at the mere thought of addressing
the Pope himself in the presence of Bishops, Arch­
bishops and Cardinals.
“ Leo X III, wearing a cassock and cape of white,
was seated on a dais, while round him were grouped
various dignitaries of the Church. According to cus­
tom, each visitor, kneeling in turn and kissing first
the foot and then the hand of Sovereign Pontiff,
finally received his blessing. At this moment two
of the Noble Guard would place their hands on the
pilgrim’s shoulder as a sign to rise and pass on to
the adjoining hall, thus leaving the way clear for
the next.
“ No one uttered a word, but I was firmly deter­
mined to speak, when suddenly the Vicar-General
of Bayeux, who was standing to the right of His
Holiness, announced in a loud voice that he abso­
lutely forbade anyone to address the Holy Father.
On hearing this my heart beat wildly, as if it would
break. I looked for counsel to Celine [her sister], and
she whispered : ‘ Speak.’
“ The next moment I was on my knees before the
155
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTI C
Pope. After I had kissed his foot he extended his
hand. Then raising my eyes, which were blinded
with tears, I said imploringly : ‘ Holy Father, I have
a great favour to ask of you.’ At once he bent down
towards me until his head almost touched my own,
while his piercing black eyes seemed to read my
very soul. ‘ Holy Father,’ I repeated, ‘ in honour
of your jubilee, allow me to enter Carmel at the age
of fifteen.’
“ Surprised and displeased, the Vicar-General said
quickly: ‘ Holy Father, this is a child who desires
to become a Carmelite, and the Superiors of the
Carmel are looking into the matter.’ ‘ Well, my
child,’ said His Holiness, ‘ do what the Superiors may
decide.’
“ Clasping my hands and resting them on his knee,
I made one last effort: ‘ Holy Father, if only you
were to say “ Yes ” everyone else would be willing.’
He looked fixedly at me, and said clearly, each syllable
strongly emphasised: ‘ Well, child ! well. You will
enter if it be God’s will.’
“ Once again I was going to plead when two of
the Noble Guard bade me rise. Seeing, however,
that the request was of no avail and that my hands
remained resting on the knees of His Holiness, they
took me by the arms, and with the help of the Vicar-
General, lifted me to my feet. But just as I was
thus being forced to move, the dear Holy Father
placed his hand gently on my Ups, then, raising it,
blessed me, while his eyes followed me as I turned
away. . . .
“ My sorrow was indeed crushing. Nevertheless
my soul remained in peace, inasmuch as I had done
all that lay in my power to respond to my Divine
Master’s call.”
Courage and indomitable spirit could scarcely have
gone further. And they had their reward. On
156
CARMELI TE CONVENT
December 28 a letter was received from the Bishop
by the Prioress, saying that Thérèse might enter the
Convent immediately.
II
What was this convent which she was to enter ?
What kind of life was it upon which she had so
set her heart ? The convent was one established
by the Carmelite Order, in the quiet little town of
Lisieux in Normandy. It is built of brick and roofed
with slate—plain and gloomy. Round it are high
walls. Inside are straight white-washed passages and
cold cells, each nine feet square, bare of ornament
and furnished with a straw mattress on a bed of
boards, a jug and basin, a stool, a table, and a plain
wooden Cross. And the convent was run on lines
of almost ferocious austerity. In it would be about
twenty-nine. All liberty of speech, action and use
of time has to be surrendered, all work done in silence.
Conversation would be allowed only during recreation
and then only under direction. They would rise at
5 a.m. and retire at 10.30 p.m. Most of the day
would be spent in services, study of the Bible, medita­
tion and private prayer. Some time would be occu­
pied in manual work. But only twice a day would
intervals of an hour each be given to recreation. In
this convent, those ties so peculiarly dear to her
would be almost completely severed. Never again
would she be able to go outside the convent walls.
Never again would she be able to see the home in
which she had been brought up and which had for
her so many of the tenderest associations. Only
occasionally would her father and sisters be able to
come to see her, and then only under restricted con­
ditions. The old daily intimacy of intercourse would
157
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
bè gone for ever. Gone, too, would be any hope of
enjoying the love of a man for her, or of ever bearing
a little one. Those deep instincts and cravings with
which every woman is by nature endowed would have
to be for ever stifled. And never again would she be
able to enjoy the beauties of nature—to wander in
the meadows and the woods or gather the wild flowers
she had loved so well. She had just passed through
the Alps on the way to Rome. The mountains had
impressed her with the greatness and majesty of God.
Enclosed in Carmel she would be able to see “ but a
little space of sky.” The beauties of nature which
had raised her soul to heaven would be for ever shut
out from her.
All these deep— and one might truthfully say divine
— enjoyments of life ; all these enjoyments of home,
of love, and of nature she would have to forgo for
ever.
And what would she get in return ? Certainly,
no material comforts. Everything material that be­
longed to her she would have to give up. Even her
cell she would not be able to call her own : it would
be common property, it would be “ our ” cell. In
that cell would not be even the comfort of a fire.
She would have to pray, and meditate, and read and
work in the chill and damp of a northern winter.
The bed would be hard ; the bed-clothing insufficient.
And the number of deaths among the poor nuns was
evidence enough of the little regard which was given
in the Convent to the care of bodily health. And
the convent itself was not attractive. The building
was plain, and even the chapel dreary. There was
nothing that would satisfy her artistic instincts.
Seeing that she would have to give up the per­
fectly legitimate and natural enjoyments of life and
158
SHE ENTERS CONVENT
to expect every kind of physical discomfort, the life
before her must have held the prospects of some
higher enjoyment or she could not have been so irre­
sistibly attracted to it. What was it that so power­
fully drew her to this seclusion ? In her formal
declaration of her reasons for entering the convent
she stated that she was going there “ to save souls
and especially to pray for priests.” And we may
suppose that in fulfilling this deepest desire of her
nature she would expect to find that joy which only
the satisfaction of her whole soul could ever give.
Neither the joys of home nor of nature could equal
the joy of bringing souls to heaven, was evidently
what she thought.
After a last look at the dear home of her child­
hood she set out for the convent with her father and
sisters. And there they all together attended Mass.
“ At the Communion, when our Divine Lord entered
our hearts, I heard sobs on every side. I did not
shed a tear, but as I led the way to the cloister
door the beating of my heart became so violent I
wondered if I was going to die. O h! the agony of that
m om ent! One must go through it to understand it.
“ I embraced all my loved ones. Then I knelt for
Papa’s blessing, and he too knelt as he blessed me
through his tears. To see this old man giving his
child to God while she was still in the springtime of
life was a sight to gladden the Angels.
“ At length the door closed upon me, and I found a
loving welcome in the arms of those dear sisters who,
each m turn, had been to me a mother, and likewise
from the family of my adoption, whose tender de­
votedness is not dreamed of by the outside world.
My desire was now accomplished, and my soul was
filled with so deep a peace that it baffles all attempt
at description.
159
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
“ Everything in the convent delighted me, especi­
ally our (my) little cell. I repeat, however, that
my happiness was calm and peaceful. . . . I was,
indeed, amply rewarded for all I had gone through,
and it was with untold joy that I kept repeating :
*Now I am here for ever.’ ”
But all was not to be easy with her— even spiritu­
ally. No sooner was she in the convent than she
experienced “ great spiritual aridity ” — doubtless the
reaction from the emotional strain of entering. Then
the Mother-Superior treated her with much severity.
She seemed to Ste Thérèse to be perpetually finding
fault with her. And when occasionally Ste Thérèse
went to her for spiritual direction she seemed to be
scolding her all the time. Then the Novice Mistress
would send her out every afternoon to weed the
garden, in addition to her regular work of looking
after the linen, cleaning a staircase and dormitory,
and gathering the vegetables.
And from the confessional and spiritual direction
she obtained no comfort in these first days. She
found extreme difficulty in opening her heart at Con­
fessional. And kind though the Sub-Prioress was in
her spiritual guidance, words failed poor little Thérèse
when she tried to speak of what passed in her soul.
Thus the time of her spiritual direction became “ a
torture and a real martyrdom.”
Her spiritual aridity increased, and she found no
comfort in Heaven or on Earth And at the end
of her year of novitiate when she had expected she
might make her Profession— that is, take the vows
o f poverty, chastity and obedience—she was told by
the Mother-Superior that she must not think of it
for another eight months. She fell into a state of
utter spiritual desolation. And she often slept during
160
A TRANSPORT OP LOVE
meditation. She felt assured that she was wholly
unsuited for the Carmelite life. The darkness became
so intense that one thing only was clear: she had
no vocation and must return to the world. On the
very eve of the day appointed for her Profession the
most furious storm of her whole spiritual life raged
within her. In her despair she took her courage in
her hands, and told first the Novice Mistress, and then
the Mother-Superior what was going on in her soul.
The former laughed at her fears and the Mother-
Superior’s consoling words dispelled the last shadow
of doubt.
Next morning her soul was flooded with heavenly
joy, and in great peace she made her vows. Jesus
was now her Spouse, and she could ask Him any
favour. She longed that every sinner on earth might
be converted and all captive souls in purgatory set
free. For herself she desired that her baptismal robe
might never be sullied. She would seek naught but
Jesus. Above all, she asked for love—for love with­
out limit. She felt that time could never take away
her happiness. And that night, as she gazed upon
the glorious starlit sky, she was filled with peace and
joy, and thought that before long she would take
flight to heaven and there be united to her Divine
Spouse in eternal bliss.
It must have been about this time that she had
what she called a “ transport of love,” when she re­
mained for a whole week far removed from the world.
“ It is,” she writes, “ impossible for me to explain
it, but it seemed as if I went about my work with
a body other than my ow n; and that a veil had
been cast over all earthly things. But I was not
then consumed by a real flam e; I was able to bear
it all, without expectation of seeing the ties that
161
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
bound me to life give way under the weight of joy ;
whilst on the occasion of which I speak, one minute,
one second longer, and my soul must have left my
body.”
Again in the year 1891, when the Foundress of the
convent died in her eighty-seventh year, Ste Thérèse
had another spiritual experience. She was watching
at the bedside of the dying Foundress when a kind of
torpor came over her. But she says :
“ At the moment her soul passed to God an extra­
ordinary change was wrought in my whole being. In
an instant I was filled with an indescribable joy
and fervour, as if the soul of our blessed Foundress
had made me a sharer in the happiness she already
Ste Thérèse had had this spiritual experience and
several other “ transports of love ” while she was
in the convent, besides the vision of the Virgin Mary
during her childhood. But the supreme experience
came to her in June 1895—that is when she was
twenty-two years of age—a few days after her Act
of Oblation.
“ I was in the choir,” she says, “ beginning the W ay
of the Cross, when suddenly I felt myself wounded by
a dart of fire so ardent that I thought I should die.
I cannot describe the transport, and no comparison
would convey an idea of the intensity of the flame.
It seemed as though an invisible force plunged me
wholly into fire. But what fire !—what sweetness.
. . . Flames of love, or rather, oceans of grace filled
my soul.”
This is as far as she could describe her experiences
in words. But she always protested against being
asked to describe them. “ I would not and I could
162
HEIGHT OP SPI RI TUAL E N J OY ME N T
not tell all,” she would say. “ Some things lose their
fragrance when exposed to the air ; and one’s inner­
most thoughts cannot be translated into earthly words
without instantly losing their deep and heavenly
meaning.” We can, however, learn some little more
about her experiences from the way in which they
outwardly affected her.
On one occasion a novice coming unexpectedly
upon her in her cell, found her industriously sewing
but lost in contemplation, and she was struck by the
heavenly expression on her countenance. Her sister
also records that, speaking to her once of the manner
in which the Holy Ghost takes possession of the soul,
her words were so inflamed and her look became sud­
denly so ardent that, unable to endure the ardency,
she covered her eyes and withdrew, filled with a sense
of the supernatural she never forgot.
These were the sublime heights of spiritual enjoy­
ment and the most truly real things in her life. But
life had also for her many trials, pains and dis­
appointments. Secluded as she might be in the con­
vent and sheltered from the roughs and temptations
of the world, she was in no haven of rest. She had
to lead a life of intense spiritual activity, with many
of the joys of the spirit, it is true, but with many
also of its sufferings. She was to learn by hard ex­
perience, what she already knew, that she had to
expect that the heights of the spirit are only attained
through much suffering as well as sacrifice.
Even after her Profession there were times when
the darkness within her soul was so thick that she
no longer knew if God loved her. These thoughts
tortured her. And one night when she was lost in
darkness there came out of it an accursed voice which
163
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
said : “ Are you certain God loves you ? ” She was
still tormented by distractions and drowsiness during
prayer and meditation. Her great desire was to be­
come a saint, but she felt as much below a saint
as a grain of sand is below a mountain. And what
hid God from her was not merely a veil which she
was on the point of rending asunder but “ a wall
which reached to the very heavens, shutting out the
starry night.” She still had meditations passed in
utter dryness.
Then there were the ordinary irritations and annoy­
ances of communal life. The devil would bring before
her the defects of a Sister. Another Sister would
get on her nerves and she would be tempted to go
a long way round to avoid meeting her. Again, when
she was allowed to speak on spiritual subjects with
some other Sister she found that, after all, the con­
versation did not attain the desired end of inciting
them to an ardent love of their Divine Spouse. Then
another Sister fidgeted incessantly with her rosary,
and she was bathed in perspiration in the effort to
prevent herself from turning round and with one
glance silence the offender. Yet another Sister kept
splashing her with dirty water while they were wash­
ing linen at the laundry, and she was tempted to
draw back and ostentatiously wipe her face to show
the delinquent that she ought to be more careful.
She had two of her own sisters in the convent,
and it might be thought that the companionship of
these would be a compensation to her for separation
from home and for all these petty irritations. The
contrary was the case. The rules of solitude and
silence were strictly observed in the convent. There
was no sitting and chatting familiarly in each other’s
rooms. They only met at recreation. And she keenly
164
S U F F E R I NG
felt having to repress her affection towards them.
Then she fell ill through having worn for too long
a small penitential cross, the sharp iron points of
which had entered into her flesh.
It was a matter of honour with her—and indeed it
was the Carmelite rule—to do nothing to alleviate
suffering or make the religious life comfortable and
agreeable. And the Mother-Superior acted strictly
on this principle. Ste Thérèse’s companions in the
Novitiate, seeing how pale she looked, tried to obtain
a dispensation for her from early rising. But the
Mother Prioress would yield to no such request. “ A
soul of such mettle,” she would say, “ ought not to
be dealt with as a child : dispensations are not meant
for her. Let her be, for God will sustain her.”
The Mother Prioress was right about the mettle.
Ste Thérèse had the courage to face the bitterest
irritations. The nun who was her pet aversion she
treated with such special attention that she asked
what it was Thérèse saw in her to make her love
her so much. And impetuous as she was by nature,
she yet schooled herself to submit to the authority
of the Mother Prioress, even when she believed her
orders were not right.
And her ambitions were still with her. She would
love till she died of love. She would love Jesus to
madness. She prayed Jesus to draw her into the
fire of His love and to unite her so closely to Him
that He might live and act in her. She would fix
her gaze on Him and long to be fascinated by His
divine eyes and to become Love’s prey. And she
hoped that one day He would, like a Divine Eagle,
swoop down and bear her away to the source of all
love and plunge her into a glowing abyss that she
might become for ever its happy victim. So she
165
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
would feel at one time. At another time she would
feel—little unfledged bird though she was—that the
eagle’s spirit was hers. So, notwithstanding her little­
ness, she would dare to gaze upon the Divine Sun
of Love and would bum to dart upward into its
fires. She could only flutter her wings, but she would
fain fly as the eagle. And when inflamed with this
soaring ambition she would wield the sword, she
would be a priest, an apostle, a martyr, a doctor of
the Church. She would do the most heroic deeds.
She would bum with the spirit of the Crusader. She
would gladly die on the battlefield in defence of the
Church. She would be a light unto souls. She would
travel the world over to raise on heathen soil the
standard of the Cross. And one mission would not
satisfy her : she would spread the Gospel in all parts
of the Earth, even to the farthest isles. But her
greatest desire of all was to win the martyr’s palm.
She would be scourged. She would be crucified. She
would be flayed alive. She would be plunged into
boiling oil. She would be ground by the teeth of
wild beasts. Martyrdom had been the dream of her
youth. It had only grown more vivid in Carmel’s
narrow cell.
Then she read the twelfth and thirteenth chapters
of the first Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians, and
saw that all cannot be apostles, nor all prophets, nor
all teachers, nor all healers. She read that though
there was the same Spirit there were “ diversities of
gifts.”
“ The same Spirit of God worketh all in all,” but
there are “ diversities of operations. . . . To one is
S
ven the word of wisdom ; to another the word of
lowledge by the same Spirit; to another the work­
ing of miracles; to another prophecy. The body is
166
C HARI TY
one but hath many members. If the whole body
were an eye, where were the hearing ? If the whole
were hearing, where were the smelling ? And whether
one member suffer, all the members suffer with i t ;
or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice
with it.”
This she read and understood from the twelfth
chapter. She could not be anything. She might not
be either an apostle or a prophet or a martyr. She
might not be one of these. Yet she was determined
to reach God. And as the chapter closed she read
how St. Paul would show “ a more excellent way.”
And she read in a new light what she must have
often and often read and heard before, the famous
thirteenth chapter. Charity—Love—was the more
excellent way to God. Charity gave her the clue.
She might have the gift of prophecy, she might under­
stand all mysteries, she might have all knowledge,
she might have faith enough to remove mountains,
she might give all she had to feed the poor, she
might suffer a martyr’s death, but all would be of
no avail if she had not charity. Charity—Love—was
the one essential.
Things now became clear to her. She might not
be the eye of the body— of the Church. She might
not be the ear. But the body must have a heart;
and she would be that heart—that heart on fire
with love. Only love imparts life to all the mem­
bers. Should it fail, apostles would no longer preach,
martyrs no longer sacrifice their lives. Love was the
one thing needful.
Beside herself with joy she cried o u t: “ 0 Jesus,
my vocation is found at last—my vocation is love.”
She had found her place in the Church. She would
be the love in the heart of Mother-Church.
167
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTI C
But love proves itself by deeds. What should she
do ? She, the little one, would strew flowers by the
way. And the flowers would be the smallest actions
done for Love. Each word, each look, each little
daily sacrifice— all would be done for Love’s dear
sake. He that ruleth his spirit is greater than he that
taketh cities. Through little acts of charity, prac­
tised in the dark, missionaries would be helped, plenti­
ful alms would be obtained, and churches would be
built. Love was to be the mainspring of every action.
She would have everyone enter whole-heartedly into
her little way. These would be the flowers which
she would strew by the way to the Throne of God.
And she would sing Love’s canticle in silvery tones.
Not in loud organ peals but in gentlest tones would
she sing as she scattered her flowers. And should
any of her roses be gathered from amid thorns, she
would still sing. The longer and sharper the thorns
the sweeter would grow her song.
This was the new way she found to God. This
was the path to Perfection. The little way. The
way of little sacrifices, little kindnesses. And it was
an ordinary way which everyone might follow.
Nor was it from any littleness of soul that she
chose the little way. Only the greatest soul could
see the greatness of this little way. She was great
enough to see that to do to perfection the little things
of everyday life, and do them with the glow of love
in the heart and a smile on the lips, is the sure and
certain way of reaching heaven. But she knew well
that it would require of her a concentration, a per­
sistency and inflexibility of purpose which even the
greatest heroes might lack, and she steadied her soul
for the effort.
She became a Mistress of Novices, and through
168
MISTRESS OF NOVI CES
guiding others she learned much. Nothing escaped
her. She was often surprised at her clear-sightedness.
She would have preferred to suffer a thousand re­
proofs rather than inflict one, yet she felt it necessary
to cause pain at times, and her novices thought her
severe. All souls have much the same battle to fight,
but as each soul is different from the others, each
must be dealt with according to her own needs.
With some she had to humble herself and not be
afraid of confessing her own struggles and defeats.
In dealing with others this would never do : self-
abasement would be mistaken for weakness. With
them her only hope of success lay in being firm, and
in never going back on what she had said. And
she had to be careful not to be too kind. She must
not go too far in the direction her heart would lead
her. A single word too much might bring to the
ground an edifice which had taken years to build.
The novices themselves soon recognized that a dose
of bitterness is worth a surfeit of sweetness.
What her ambitions and ideals were has already
been noted. Some of her governing ideas might also
here be described. One of the most deeply rooted
was that this Earth is a place of misery and we
must look for happiness in a life after death. She
always expected to die young, and it almost seems as
if she wanted to. If life here was so miserable and
life there was so blissful the only logical conclusion
would be that the sooner she left this earthly life the
better. She believed in the presence of guardian
angels about her. But also in the Devil. One night,
when ill, she begged that her bed might be sprinkled
with holy water, saying : “ The Devil is beside me.
I do not see him but I feel him ; he torments me,
holding me with a grip of iron that I may not find
*.*. 169 m
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
one crumb of comfort and adding to my sufferings
that I may be driven to despair.”
How far she distinguished between Jesus and God
is not always clear. She, of course, regarded Jesus
as the ideal of perfection and as her Spouse. She
constantly felt His spirit in her and believed that
at Holy Communion He entered into her. She also
regarded Him as the Divine Artist and herself as His
little brush by means of which He would paint the
most beautiful colours. And she looked forward to
that glorious day when, with His retinue of virgins,
she would follow Him through His boundless realm
singing His new canticle—the Canticle of Love.
God she regarded as pure Spirit. No human eye
could see Him. But one day, as she was watching
in the garden with one of her own sisters, she stood
still to watch a little white hen sheltering her chickens
under her wing. Her eyes filled with tears. Even
when she reached her cell it was some time before
she could speak through her tears. She had realized
the tenderness of God—the mercy of God. She could
not tell all that had stirred her heart. And she
realized that only on rare occasions could what she
saw be disclosed. Otherwise, no one could survive
the sweetness of it. But may we surmise that in
that moment she had sensed the Motherhood of
God ? That in that tender, self-sacrificing, sheltering
mother-love, common to animals and birds as well
as to women, she had divined in a flash an essential
characteristic of God ?
Of the efficacy and power of prayer she was deeply
convinced. For her it was an uplifting of the heart,
a glance towards Heaven, a cry of gratitude and
of love in times of sorrow as well as of joy. It was
through prayer, she wrote, that St. Paul, St. Augus-
170
M I S S I O N A RY AS BROTHER
tine, St. Thomas Aquinas, St. John of the Cross and
Ste Teresa had acquired the wonderful knowledge
that had enthralled men’s minds. It was with prayer
as a lever that they had uplifted the world.
Seven years had gone by since Ste Thérèse entered
Carmel when a great joy came. For years she had
felt a longing to have had a brother who would be a
priest. Now the Mother Prioress called her aside
while she was at work washing and read a letter
from a young seminarist in which he said he had
been inspired by Ste Thérèse to ask for a Sister who
would devote herself especially to his salvation, to­
gether with that of the souls one day to be entrusted
to him. And she was then chosen to have this future
missionary for her brother. Such an unlooked-for
fulfilment of her great wish filled her heart with the
joy of a child. She had not tasted such happiness
for years.
Now and again she would write to her new brother.
But letters were dangerous. Correspondence might
preoccupy and injure the soul. Too often fair words
written and fair words received might be merely
an exchange of false coin. It was by prayer and
sacrifice that missionaries could best be helped, she
considered.
The next year a second brother was given to her.
She represented that having given all her slender
merits to one future apostle, she feared they could not
be given to another. But she was told that obedience
would double those merits. In the depth of her
heart she agreed. The zeal of a Carmelite ought to
embrace the whole world.
Ste Thérèse had also had as her “ spiritual hero ” a
171
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIO
French missionary, Thèophane Vènard, who, at the
age of thirty-two, in the year 1861 had been martyred
in Tongking. In the beauty of his soul, the romance
and holiness of his nature, and his love of home
there was a deep affinity between her and him. And
she once explained the reason for her admiration of
him in particular. It was because he was a little
saint whose life was quite ordinary ; because he had
an ardent love for the Immaculate Mother and like­
wise a great love for those at home.
So the years went by in the convent. But all the
time the austerity of the Buie was telling on her.
She had entered it with a delicate constitution ; and,
though she never complained, the food was most
unpalatable to her digestion, and the want of a fire
in winter caused her the greatest physical suffering.
And already in the convent she had known at close
quarters what death was. In 1891 an epidemic of
influenza had broken out in it. She herself had had
a slight attack. The worst sufferers were nursed by
those who could hardly stand. Death was all round
them. No sooner had one died than they had to
leave her and attend to another. On her nineteenth
birthday the Sub-Prioress had died and Ste Thérèse
had assisted at her last agony. One morning she had
a presentiment that one Sister named Magdalen was
dead. She went to her cell and found her lying
dead, fully dressed. So Ste Thérèse knew well what
death was. Yet it did not daunt her. She had always
believed that she would die young. And in April
1896, when she was still only twenty-three, she had
the first warning of the end. She had a haemorrhage
in the night. The next day was Good Friday when
severe penances have to be practised and a novice,
seeing her face livid, begged permission from her to
172
ILLNESS
tell the Mother Prioress and get her some reprieve
from the penance ; but Ste Thérèse strictly forbade
it, saying that what she was suffering was nothing
in comparison with what Jesus had suffered on that
day. She kept her sufferings to herself, and it was
only in May, 1897, that even her own sisters knew of
this first warning. Then they gently reproached her
for not haying told them ; and a more strengthening
diet was given her.
For some months the cough ceased. Then she took
a serious turn for the worse—and, as it proved, for
the worst. She would continue to take the com­
munity exercises, but at night she would ascend the
steps to her cell with the greatest difficulty, pausing
for breath after each step. Utterly exhausted she
would take a full hour to undress. Even then she
had only a hard pallet on which to lie. The night
was full of pain. But when asked if she would not
like some help during those lonely hours, she said she
was delighted to suffer alone : “ The moment I re­
ceive sympathy and am loaded with attentions I am
no longer happy.” She had always accustomed her­
self to suffering. And once—before this illness—she
had said : “ When painful and disagreeable things
come my way, instead of looking gloomy I greet them
with a smile. At first I did not always succeed.
Now it has become a habit.”
For several days during August she seemed beside
herself and implored that prayers might be offered
for her, and until the end she remained in a state
of extreme anguish. After the middle of August she
was unable, because of her continual sickness, to
receive Holy Communion. Then she became so weak
that she was unable to make the slightest movement
without assistance. Even whispers near caused her
173
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
pain. And it was only with the greatest difficulty
that she could articulate a word. Yet a sweet smile
was always on her lips. Her one fear was lest she
should give the Sisters any extra trouble. And up
till two days before her death she would not allow
anyone to remain with her through the night.
On September 30 came the end. She gazed with
inexpressible tenderness on the statue of the Madonna
which had been in her home and which had been
brought into the infirmary. Then looking on her
crucifix she said : “ Oh ! . . . I love Him . . . My
God, I . . . love . . . Thee.”
These were her last words (and previously to her
sister Celine, as a last word of adieu, she had said:
“ It is love alone that counts” ). And a little later
she suddenly raised herself as though called by a
mysterious voice. Her eyes shone with unutterable
joy as she fixed them a little above the statue. And
so she passed away with the joy of that last rapture
imprinted on her face.
She had always thought she would die young. She
had almost wished to die young. From her childhood
she had regarded earth as a place of exile : heaven
as her hom e; earth as all m isery: heaven as full
of joy. To leave earth and ascend to heaven was
naturally, therefore, her desire. The thought of enter­
ing heaven transported her with joy. And when near
the end the chaplain asked her if she were resigned to
die, she told him that she needed more resignation
to live and that the thought of death brought her
nothing but joy.
Yet at this very time a profound change was taking
place within her. She was no longer desiring to spend
eternity enjoying herself in heaven ; she was already
wanting to return and work on earth.
174
HER DEATH
When a Sister was speaking to her of the happiness
of heaven, she replied : “ It is not that which attracts
me ; it is Love. To love, to be loved, and to return
to earth to win love for our Love. . . . I know well
that everyone will love me.”
One evening when her Sister, Mother Agnes of
Jesus, went to the infirmary—and that must have
been not more than two days before the end—Ste
Thérèse welcomed her with an extraordinary expression
of joy and said :
“ Mother, some notes from a distant concert have
just reached my ears, and the thought came to me
that soon I shall be listening to the music of Para­
dise. Yet this thought gave me only a moment’s
joy. For one hope only fills my heart—the hope of
the love I shall receive and the love I shall be able
to give. I feel my mission is soon to begin—my
mission to make others love God as I love Him—to
teach souls my little way. I mil spend my heaven in
doing good upon earth.”
“ You will look down on us from heaven,” the
Sisters said to her.
“ No,” she replied, “ I will come down. Would
God have given me this ever-increasing desire to
do good on earth after my death unless He had
meant me to fulfil it ? ”
She died then with an ever-dwindling desire for the
happiness of heaven and an ever-increasing desire to
work for good on this earth.
And it has been in actual experience that she still,
as it were, lives and moves among men. Since she
entered the convent at the age of fifteen no one out­
side her family had seen her. Yet only a few years
after her death, from all parts of the civilized world
petitions poured in on the Vatican urging her Beati-
175
A ROMAN CATHOLIC MYSTIC
fication and afterwards her Canonization. During the
Great War soldiers of every rank joined in the appeal.
A steadily increasing stream of pilgrims came to
kneel before the simple cross under which what was
mortal of her lay. In 1923, the year of her Beatifica­
tion, three hundred thousand pilgrims visited Lisieux.
Cardinals came from Rome, from England and from
America. The town was gaily decorated. Thirty
prelates and eight hundred priests formed the escort
of the precious remains. Officers and soldiers whom
she had helped during the war formed a guard of
honour. While between sixty and eighty thousand
pilgrims lined the route.
Whether she had gained her ambition of following
Jesus with His retinue of virgins we know not. But
one thing we do know as an established fa ct; that
her spirit is now inspiring hundreds of thousands of
persons here on earth. And we may be sure it will
work on here for ages to come. If she had lived she
would still be only just over sixty. And her highest
aspirations could scarcely have expected that in so
short a time—even in the lifetime of her elder sisters
—so amazing a result should have been achieved.
She had tried to love God as He had never been
loved before. Through God’s embodiment in Jesus
she must have loved Him as none has exceeded. She
had entered into the Spirit of Jesus and therefore
into the Spirit of God. He had been imbued with
that Spirit and she had imbibed It to overflowing.
And now, through her life and her death, she had
been the means of imbuing thousands of others with
the Spirit of God. It is a miracle far surpassing the
miraculous cure of bodily ailments. And it was be­
cause of the very ordinariness of her life ; because
she did all the little trivialities of everyday life in
170
DOING GOOD UPON EARTH
the Spirit of God that she is so widely popular. She
had spirit enough to do things on the grandest scale.
But her life lay in the little way. And in the little
way what she did she did to perfection. That is
why her appeal is so wide. She would spend her
heaven in doing good upon earth. Along the little
way she had followed—the way of childlikeness—she
would help others to go. And such a lead others
have gladly followed. This is the precious result of
her short heroic life.
177
CHAPTER IV
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
THE GOLDEN FOUNTAIN
I
N two little books named The Golden Fountain
and The Prodigal's Return there are described
the spiritual experiences of an English Christian
woman which bear such remarkable resemblances to
the experiences of Hindu mystics that they are now
included in this survey for comparison with others.
And they are the more remarkable because the ex-
perient had read nothing of Hindu or even Christian
mysticism and had made her way by her own unaided
efforts—even without the aid of the Church to which
she belonged. That is to say she came naturally to
her experiences. There was no question of her ex­
periences being suggested to her, or of her following
any particular tradition.
In spiritual matters she was so reserved that she
could not bear the publicity of her name upon the
books, and they were therefore published anony­
mously. And as even after her death, which occurred
about six years ago, she wished to remain anonymous
we can only gather from occasional sentences and
references in her three little books1 what her story
1 The Golden Fountain, The Prodigal’s Return, and The Romance
of the Soul—all published by J. M. Watkins.
178
A WOMAN OP THE WORLD
was. But we infer from them that she was out­
wardly an ordinary “ society woman ” such as are
met by thousands in every European country, brought
up and living in neither specially religious nor specially
irreligious surroundings.
She was English but of French Huguenot descent
on both her father’s and her mother’s side. She
writes of “ being dressed in the latest fashion ” and
of “ balls and parties,” of winters at Rome “ in con­
tinuous gaiety amongst a brilliant cosmopolitan world
of men and women who lived in palaces, surrounded
with art and luxury.” At her first ball—and often
afterwards— she knew “ the surging exultation and
intoxicating joy of life.” Love of the world and of
social life was a strong feeling with her for many
years. And “ in social life, in brilliant scenes of fight
and laughter, music and love, I seemed to ride on
the crest of a wave in the marvellous glamour of
youth.”
When she was a little over thirty she was married
to an officer in the British Army, who soon after the
marriage was called to serve in the South African
War and who afterwards served in the Great War.
With him she travelled to many parts of the w orld:
and when in England they lived in the country among
the hunting set, though while he was hunting or
shooting she would be walking on the downs or tend­
ing flowers in the walled garden of an old country
house.
This was her social setting : nothing out of the
ordinary, one way or the other. And the same with
her religious surroundings. Her family went to church
once on Sundays— “ if it was fine.” And she says
of herself that she was never pious and never read a
religious book.
179
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
How then came it about that apparently so ordinary
a woman living so ordinary a life should have enjoyed
so extraordinary a religious experience ? The answer
is, that deep within her was something very, very
different from what she ever allowed to appear upon
the surface. Her inner disposition differed greatly
from her outward seeming. She held herself in hand
and had a strong sense of discipline and self-control.
Outwardly she conformed to the society in which
she was immersed. Inwardly her whole soul rebelled
against the conventionality around her. Though she
may have had little of what she calls “ piety,” she
acknowledges having “ a deep thirst for the per­
fect and the holy and the pure.” And in the quiet
solemnity of a church, or under the blue skies she
would detach herself from her surroundings and “ wist­
fully reach up and out towards the ineffable holiness
and purity of God—unattainable though He seemed.”
Society did not satisfy that something living within her
“ which knew a terrible necessity for God.”
This vehement Godward urge—this urge to all that
is holy and perfect—was evidently the focusing to a
single direction of an exceptionally loving disposition,
of an admiration of all beauty, and of an ardent
curiosity to know the truth of things.
Withal she had a quite extraordinary capacity for
suffering, due perhaps to her peculiarly sensitive
nature—though doubtless also her sensitivity was en­
hanced by this very suffering, the sensitivity heighten­
ing the suffering and the suffering intensifying the
sensitivity. For a sufferer must necessarily be sen­
sitive, and a sensitive person a sufferer.
We may sum her up, then, as being of an exceed­
ingly impressionable and responsive nature, quick to
register and respond to the most delicate impressions
180
CAPACI TY FOR LOVE
and eagerly reaching after the most perfect things in
life.
The impetuous urge within her was strong enough
not to be baulked till it had broken through the
narrow surroundings of a woman of society. And she
herself was sensitive enough and active enough to
respond to those intimations from the kingdom of
Spirit which we sometimes term the Grace of God,
without which she herself acknowledged she could
never have experienced what she did.
Let us now examine in more detail, first her own
innate disposition and then the circumstances under
which she was able to force her way through the
tough integument which encased her, and under the
influence of the enveloping sunshine blossom forth in
such rare and exquisite beauty.
Of her innate disposition the dominating feature
was this passionate love to which reference has already
been made. Her first memory was of the face and
neck and bosom of the nurse upon whose heart she
lay, of her voice telling her that she must leave, and
immediately after, of the anguish and the fain of
love.
Next we are told of her “ darling brothers,” from
whom she had often to part when they went back to
school.
“ When they came home I overflowed with happi­
ness and sang all day long in my heart. But the
last night of the holidays was a time of anguish. Oh,
the pain of love at parting ! There never was a pain
so terrible as suffering love. The last m eal: the last
hour : the last look ! ”
Of her mother we hear little. But to her father
she was devoted. She believed he guided her char-
181
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
acter with the greatest judgment, above all things
teaching her the need of self-control. He was a man
of leisure, we are told, and acquainted with many of
the celebrated people of the day, both in England
and on the Continent. On no subject was he un­
read, and he would engage in wonderful and brilliant
discussions. And though naturally of a somewhat
violent temper, he had so brought himself under
control that towards high and low alike he had be­
come all that was most sweet and patient, gentle and
sympathetic.
To this talented and kindly father she gave her
obedience, though his call upon her was on one critical
occasion certainly not wise. And in his last years,
when he was overtaken with heart disease, she tended
him to the length of losing her health.
Love of nurse, love of brothers, love of father she
had in abundance. Stronger, deeper, more passion­
ate was the love of the woman in her for man. She
was a woman through and through, with the great
natural, healthy passions of a woman. What she
describes as “ the first faint breath of the mystery
of sex ” she felt when she was only five. She was a
bridesmaid, and she recalls the church, the altar, and
great awe, and afterwards a long white table, white
flowers, and a white bride, and grown men smilingly
delightful, tempting her with sweets and cakes, and a
new, strange interest arising in her like a flood of
exultation.
At sixteen, tall and healthy, she received her first
offer of marriage and with it her first vision of the
love and passion of men. She recoiled from it with a
great shyness and aversion. She felt the pull of
strong forces within her and was fearful of herself.
For interests and instincts within her corresponded to
182
SPI RI TUAL RETI CENCE
this dangerous capacity of her. The world, she felt,
held many strange fires : some holy and beautiful:
some far otherwise.
Yet, though she recoiled she was also attracted.
She knew she had great powers over the emotions
of men. She became deeply interested in them. And
from that time till her marriage she was never with­
out a lover.
Finally, she fell in love. She came to the con­
sciousness of it not gradually but all in an instant.
She had no chance of drawing back, for it was already
fully completed before she was aware of it. When
the time came to speak of it to her parents her
mother would not hear of the marriage : there was
no money. Two brilliant opportunities offered them­
selves—money, position. She could bring herself to
neither. Love was everything. A prolonged secret
engagement therefore had to follow.
In all this love of society, love of brothers, love of
father, love of lovers she was an ordinary, natural
woman. But beneath this ordinary family and social
life, from the deep, inmost centre of her, was that
which she never revealed to anyone about her—not
even to her husband. “ I was always reserved,” she
writes, “ and never admitted anyone into the deep
things of my life.”
In those deeps she “ sighed and moaned for God.”
As a little girl she “ believed in God with the com­
plete and peaceful faith of childhood.” When she
shut her eyes she saw God very plainly. “ He was
a White Figure, in white robes, on a white throne,
amongst the clouds.’’ At eighteen, in the midst of her
social gaiety her mind and her heart imperatively de­
manded solitude. And in this solitude and in silence
she sought the beautiful in nature. In contemplating
183
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
the sky or a distant scene, she would in some mys­
terious way inhale the very essence of the Beautiful.
At this time it did not occur to her that this was a
way of the spirit’s struggle towards the Eternal. But
later on she came to regard the Beautiful as with
Love one of the twin golden paths that lead us to
the God from whom all beauty proceeds.
Her way was this. She would first seat herself in
such a position that her body would not fall, so that
she could completely forget it. Then she would look
about her and drink in the beauty of the scene till
her eyes came to rest upon the spot which for her
was most beautiful, and there they would remain
fixed. All thoughts would then be folded up so that
her mind flowing in a single direction would concen­
trate upon the selected beauty. This would soon
vanish and she would see nothing whatever. But
borne away into a place of complete silence and
emptiness, she would there assimilate and inwardly
enjoy the soaring essence of the beauty which she
had previously drawn into her mind through her eyes.
No longer conscious of seeing outwardly she would
live entirely from the inward.
This, which she called her “ beautiful pastime,”
she would resort to almost daily. For it she had
to seek solitude. And solitude is not easy to find.
But she would seek it even in a churchyard. And
there she would see no graves— only the sky, or a
marvellous cloud, pink with the kisses of the sun.
Yet in this “ pastime ” all was not joy. There
was also “ a strange, inexpressible sadness.” The
beauty of nature was not enough. The more beauty
she saw, the more she longed for something to which
she could not put a name. And at times the ache of
this pain became terrible, almost agonizing.
184
ATHEISM
And all this time, while she was seething with
love, and pursuing beauty, she was devoured with a
curiosity to know the truth about every single thing
she saw. In astronomy, biology and geology she
found a new and marvellous interest. Her young and
healthy intelligence had a voracious appetite—but
only for science, and not for either philosophy or
religion. And science, and her clever but sceptical
brother, turned her to atheism. While her father,
perceiving the way she was tending, made matters
worse by begging her, out of love and obedience to
himself, to give up reading all science.
A wise Hindu sage, when a young Indian told him
that he had become an atheist, congratulated him.
And on the youth expressing his astonishment that
a man of God should congratulate him on becoming
an atheist, the sage replied: “ Your becoming an
atheist shows that you have begun to think. Go on
thinking.” If her father had advised her to follow
science through to its foundations and further on to
philosophy and pursue truth to the very furthest
extreme, she would have found satisfaction for her
soul. As it was, tragedy followed. She dutifully
and lovingly obeyed her revered father, and in conse­
quence suffered tortures. Being thwarted in her
search for truth, her pursuit of beauty atrophied in
sympathy. She became afraid to turn to the love of
nature. She had to abandon her “ beautiful pas­
time.” The pain of it had become unendurable.
There ensued a terrible conflict. Her intelligence
said : “ Give yourself up to the world. Console your­
self with material achievements.” Fortunately, her
heart said : “ Abandonment to the world is impos­
sible. There is no consolation to the heart without
God.” In that darkest and driest time of all she
*.«. 185 N
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
still felt “ the same piercing desire and need for God.”
To a woman atheism is intolerable, she afterwards
wrote. Her very nature, loving, tender, sensitive, and
clinging, demands belief in God. Without God, she
knew herself incapable of overcoming the evil of the
world or even her own petty nature. The high moral
standard demanded of woman was impossible of
achievement for mere reasons of race-welfare. The
personal reason, the Personal God was essential to
high virtue.
So she listened to her heart and not to the voice
of worldly wisdom. But for two terrible years she
had to fight for her faith. And it was only then
that she began to find a reward. Little by little a
faint hope—fragile, often hardly perceptible—began
to creep into her mind. What else but his thoughts
and aspirations raised man above the beasts; and
if even a grain of dust is imperishable, were these
thoughts and aspirations alone to end in nothing ?
It was but a reasonable inference to say No. And
in the realm of ideal thought she might again find
her faith. This was the faint ray of hope which came
to her after those two ghastly years of atheism.
And in Rome she was further drawn away from
atheism. The continuous gaiety of her life did not
really satisfy her. Nor did the works of art. She
did not pretend that sculptures and pictures affected
her at all—that is, we may presume, her soul. She
was interested in them. She greatly admired them.
They were part of her education. But that was
all. What really did affect her—and that most
deeply—were the temples, those silent emblems of
man’s worship of an unknown God. They strangely
appealed to her. Could she but find G od! Could
she but truly believe and be at peace! Even that
186
HOLI NESS P E RS ONI FI E D
would be welcome. Even that, without actually finding
God.
Then came a further step forward. She attended
one of the great ceremonies at the Vatican. Lifted
high in his chair on the shoulders of his bearers the
Pope—it must have been Leo X III—was approach­
ing. He came slowly along, his hand raised in a
general blessing on the whole multitude. As he came
nearer she saw distinctly the delicate ivory face, the
great dark eyes shining with a fire she had never
seen before. She was moved to the depth o f her
being. For the first time in her life she saw holiness.
Something in her gaze arrested the Pope’s attention.
He had his chair stopped immediately above her, and
leaning over, blessed her individually. No longer
had she a body. No longer was there anything in
the world but holiness. Holiness, and her enrap­
tured soul. Till she had seen it living before her she
had not realized i t ; but now she knew. Holiness
was far beyond the beautiful.
Faith was now coming to the aid of hope. But
faith in a very different form from what she had
known before— wider, purer, infinitely more powerful.
The pain of those struggling years of doubt and
negation had after all been worth while. She now
saw that without them she could never have found
so strong a faith as she now possessed. God was,
indeed, still at an indefinite and infinite distance.
But of His existence she was now completely certain.
He was still far away, but He was there. She had
outgrown her atheism. And if she had not yet had
full experience of the Spirit of God she no longer
doubted His existence.
It was soon after this that she married. But only
four months later her husband had to leave her to
187
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
take part in the war in South Africa. And now
doubts began to assail her about the goodness of
God. He might exist. But was He always good ?
With her almost infinite capacity for suffering she was
deeply pained by this separation from her husband.
As in the days of parting with her schoolboy brothers
and as on the death of her beloved father, there was
what she described as “ this terrible pain of love that
must part.” Love had always seemed to her the
most beautiful thing in life. Yet always it was love
that hurt her most.
Wherefore this suffering ? she asked herself.
Harsh, rebellious thoughts frequently invaded her.
The whole scheme of nature appeared to her un­
reasonably cruel. The joy of festivities, even of
human love, did not equal the anguish of grief over
others, or of the sufferings of physical ill-health.
Sorrow was more weighty than joy— and far more
durable. Ready to hand were the means to console
herself with the here and now ; and again she was
tempted to throw herself once more into worldly
interests and enjoyment. She felt betrayed in her
love and hurt towards God. If He was not the
actual Author of pain, at any rate He was the Per-
mitter. A tremendous fear of God now grew up
in her, and all her actions were governed by this
weighty and immediate fear of Him.
Her husband was away for fifteen months, and all
that time she made no spiritual advance whatever.
But when he at last returned and they again took
up their married life in a happy world of their own
her spirit seemed to revive. In the winter, while
he was hunting, she would spend much time by her­
self and again be feeling her way towards God. She
would once more indulge in her “ pastime ” of con-’
188
HER NEED OP GOD
templating the beauties of nature. And she would
work in the garden and observe and admire every­
thing that lived close at hand in the hedgerows and
the fields. And when she thought of these and beheld
the beauties of nature and the glories of the endless
sky her heart melted with tenderness and admiration
for the marvellous Maker of it all.
She would engage in this contemplation of nature,
but she does not appear to have sought God through
prayer. She says indeed that at this time she seldom
said any prayers at all. She had convinced herself
by some odd train of reasoning that women were
not acceptable to God. She did, however, pay public
respect to God by attending church; and she then
worshipped Him with profound reverence though with
great sadness. And it is noticeable that with all her
harsh feelings towards God on account of the suffer­
ing in the world and with all her strange ideas as to
His attitude towards women, she did still feel the
urgent need of God. Even the strong human love
which she was now enjoying was insufficient to give
to life any sense of adequacy. God Himself she re­
quired. And not mere knowledge that He existed.
To know Him to be was no consolation. Nothing
would suffice her but some form of personal contact.
And before she could obtain that contact she had
to go through still further suffering. Her husband
was ordered again to South Africa and this time she
was able to go with him. But while there, a terrible
misfortune befell her. She was struck by lightning.
Every nerve seemed electrocuted. Her sufferings
were almost unendurable. And her suffering was not
merely physical: it was spiritual as well. She con­
vinced herself that her loved one had changed—that
he was indifferent to her sufferings. It is permissible
189
A P B 0 T E 8 T A N T MYSTIC
to suggest that he also may have suffered from her
highly strained state of nerves. Be that as it may,
as far as she was concerned she was deeply pained at
what seemed to her this revelation of the natural
imperfection of human lov e; and in her illness she
was tremendously alone.
Arrived at this pass she took an entirely new turn.
Hitherto, she had sought God direct. Now she turned
to Jesus. Profoundly saddened as she was, she
thought more and more of Jesus’ love. And she
commenced to meditate upon his life and character
and love till gradually she made of him “ a sweet
Mind-Companion.’’
That Jesus Christ was God she knew to be the
faith of the Church. But that he actually was God
she felt no conviction whatever. Indeed, such a be­
lief was to her incomprehensible. She thought of
him as a perfect man with divine powers. He was
her Jesus. She denied nothing and kept a perfectly
open mind. But she loved him for himself as the
Man Jesus.
We do not gather from her writings that she had
at this time read any “ lives ” of Jesus or made
any definite study of his teachings. Probably she
caught her impressions of him directly from the Bible
and from what she would hear in church.
And here it is necessary to notice one of her most
remarkable characteristics—her power of dramatiza­
tion. As a little girl she had pictured to herself a
great angel who stood with pen and book in hand
and wrote down all her sins. This terrible angel was
a great reality to her. And God was a White Figure
in white robes on a white throne, to whom the angel
every evening read out her faults.
At the age of thirteen or fourteen she evolved in
190
HABI T OF D RA MA T I Z A TI ON
her dreams a companion who was at the same time
herself and yet also a marvellous creature of un­
limited possibilities and virtues. This dream-com­
panion even had wings and flew with such ease from
the tops of the highest buildings, and floated so
delightfully over her favourite fields or brooks that
she found it hard to believe that she herself did
not actually fly. Glorious things they did together.
Nothing daunted them. Little now she cared for
books of adventure. She and her dream-companion
had adventures infinitely more wonderful than any
read of in books.
Moreover, her companion not only had wings but
was extremely good. The angel with the book had
nothing to record against her. As they both grew
older the actual wings were folded up and put away.
But the virtues remained ; and a certain high standard
of life was evolved which was afterwards extremely
useful to her. And when she grew up and became
exceedingly gay she still retained the habit of this
double existence. It remained with her even after
marriage and kept her out of mischief. Clothed in
the body of her double she would wander where she
listed. She need never be dull. She would go to
balls and parties, or with great ease visit the moun­
tains and watch the sunsets or the incomparable
beauty of dawn. Delicate excursions, too, she would
make into the strange, the wonderful, and the sub­
lime, and in these invisible worlds gather crystal
flowers whose scent was Romance.
Such was her habit of dramatization and she
evidently carried it with her in her meditations on
Jesus.
She was thirty-six years of age when she began
these meditations. Her spiritual advancement had
191
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
been incredibly slow, she believed. And now again
her meditations went on without any apparent result.
Then one day, on returning from a walk she had
commenced thinking with great nearness and in­
timacy of Jesus when suddenly, with the most intense
vividness, he presented himself before her conscious­
ness so that she inwardly perceived him.
At once she was overcome by a great agony of
remorse for her unworthiness. It was as though her
heart and mind had broken in pieces and melted in
the stress of a fearful pain. This lasted for an hour,
increasing till it became wholly unendurable. Her
wonderful Lord had come to pay her a visit and she
was not fit to receive him.
Up till now she had publicly confessed herself a
sinner. And privately also she had thought of her­
self as a sinner, but without being much perturbed
by the thought. Now, by this presentment of himself
she suddenly, and with terrible clearness, came to see
the “ whole insufferable offensiveness ” of herself.
For some weeks she remained half stunned with
astonishment. Then she determined to become less
selfish, less irritable, less impatient, to be more con­
siderate with others and more rigidly truthful. And
whatever her difficulties might be she now had the
immense incentive to please her Jesus—her tender
and wonderful and perfect friend.
This was what she afterwards called her first con­
version.
Two years went by and then, on an Easter morning,
as she knelt in prayer at the close of the Church
Service, he suddenly presented himself again. And
again she saw herself, and went down and down into
fearful abysses of spiritual pain, suffering even more
than she had on his first presentment to her.
192
V I S I ON OP CHRIST
This was her second conversion.
After this her soul knew Jesus as Christ, the Son
of God. And her mind and heart accepted this with­
out any further wonder or question. A great re­
pose began to fall upon her. The world and all
its interests seemed to be softly blown out of her
heart by the wings of a great new love—her love
for the Risen Christ. Though outwardly her friends
saw no change, yet inwardly she was changing month
by month. She was distressed as she thought that
the great love for her husband was beginning to
fade. Yet it was rather that her heart was grown
so large that no man could fill it. She felt within
her immense, incomprehensible capacity for love which
the whole world seemed even absurdly inadequate to
satisfy.
She had a garden full of old-fashioned flowers and
surrounded by a high wall. In this garden she would
love to work. And there, far away from the world
she would think about God— about God so hidden,
yet so near her heart. And whilst she worked a
robin would seek her out and sing to her all to herself
a tiny, gentle song of which she never grew tired.
And if she stayed quite still he would come so close
to her as almost to touch her. Was not she like
that robin ? she asked herself. Did she not want to
come closer and closer to the feet of God ? So every
day, just as the robin sang to her she would sing
out of her own heart a little, gentle song to the
hidden God Who called her, but Who, when she
answered Him, would not let her find Him, or make
any sign.
While she was left dumb with pain and wonder
at this mystery there suddenly came the tremendous
193
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
shock of the Great War. Her husband was among
the first who went to it. And all her love for him,
which she had thought to be fading, now rose up
again to its full strength. But again her capacity for
suffering showed itself. The very strength and per­
fection of her love made it a greater instrument
for torture. She thought o f Christ in the Garden of
Gethsemane. He understood and knew all pain and
she had his companionship. But he afforded her no
cessation of pain. And she shrank appalled from the
suffering she was already enduring and the suffering
she knew lay before her.
And now she was possessed by what she calls a
“ horrible kind of second sight.” So that she became
aware of much that was happening to her husband—
of his being perpetually pressed backward, fighting
for his life, and lying out exhausted in open fields
at night. And this was not the only instance in
her life of such experience. As a little girl she had
suffered agonies when in a train crossing a railway
bridge and had become acutely aware that the bridge
was about to give way—which it did when the follow­
ing train passed over. She had also possessed an
aptitude for fortune-telling, but after practising it
for a couple of years, had pushed it from her as an
intolerable nuisance.
Months and years dragged by. Sometimes the pain
of it all was eased. Sometimes it was increased. Her
soul reached down into great and fearful depths.
She envied the soldiers dying upon the battlefields.
Life became more terrible to her than death. A
painful illness came and lasted for months. Having
no home, she was obliged to endure the misery
of it as best she could amongst strangers. She
touched the very lowest depths. She loathed her life
194
E X T RE ME SUFFERI NG
and often longed that she might never awake in the
morning.
But during her illness some light did come. She
became exceedingly near to Christ—more vividly near
than she could possibly describe. And out of this
time of suffering she learned submission. Perhaps
a too great submission. For later she was to see
that an onward-driving resolution to win through—a
powerful determination to seek and obtain the imme­
diate protection and assistance of God—was required
of the soul. But for the time she was bewildered
and mystified by her own unhappiness and by the
unhappiness of those around, and she sank, in her
submission, into a too lethargic state of resignation.
A great battle was now raging in France and her
husband was in the very foremost part of it. At
last the day came when the shadow of these two
fearful years rose up and overwhelmed her altogether.
So she went up to the wild lonely hill where she
had so often contended with God for His help. And
then, for the first time in her life, she found nothing
between God and herself.
Like a man standing in a very dark place, seeing
nothing, but knowing himself near to another she
knew herself to be in very great nearness to God.
She had no need for eyes to see outwardly, because
of the immense magnetism of this inward awareness.
At one moment her heart and mind ran like water
before Him, praying and beseeching Him for help.
At another her soul stood straight up before Him,
contending and claiming help because she could bear
no more. And it felt to her as though the Spirit
of God stood over against her spirit, and for more
than an hour her spirit wrestled with God’s Spirit.
But He gave her no answer, no sign, no help. He
195
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
gave her nothing but that awful silence which seemed
to hang for ever between God and man. And she
became exhausted and turned away in despair from
God, from supplication, from striving. And very
quiet, and profoundly sad, she stood looking out
across the hills to the distant view.
Then, mutely wondering at the meaning of it all—
this lovely peace of the evening sky, and nearly all
the nations of the earth fighting together in blood
and fury and pain—she was commencing to walk
away, when suddenly she was surrounded by a great
whiteness which blotted out all her surroundings,
though she stood there with her eyes wide open.
And the cloud pricked so that she said to herself,
“ It is an electric cloud.” And it pricked her from
her head down to her elbows, but no further. And
she stood there quite placid and quiet, and feeling
no fear— only a very great wonder.
Then there began to be poured into her an in­
describably great vitality so that she said to herself,
“ I am being filled with some marvellous elixir.” And
it filled her from the feet up, gently and slowly, so
that she could notice every advance. As it rose
higher in her she grew to feel freed of the law of
gravitation and possessed of the capacity to pass
where and how she would. She was like a free spirit.
For some moments she tasted a new form of living.
Words were unable to describe the splendour of it—
the glory, the liberty, the boundless joy.
And this incomprehensible Power rose and rose in
her until it reached the very crown of her head.
And immediately it had quite filled her a marvellous
thing happened. The wall which had been a dreadful
barrier between God and her came down entirely.
Immediately she loved Him. And so filled with love
196
S P I RI T UA L E X P E R I EN C E S
was she, and so great was the force, and wonder, and
delight of it, that she had to cry her love aloud.
Then slowly the vivid whiteness melted away so
that once more she saw everything around her just
as before.
For a little while she continued to stand there
very still and thoughtful—for she was filled with
wonder and great peace. Then slowly she turned to
walk home. But now she walked as a new creature
in a new world. Her heart felt like the heart of an
angel—glowing white-hot with the love of God. And
all her sorrows had fled away in a vast joy.
This was God’s answer. This was His help. After
years and years of wrestling and struggling, in one
moment He had let her find H im : He had poured
His paradise into her soul. Never was such incon­
ceivable joy—never such gladness! The whole of
space was scarce large enough to hold her. She
needed it all. And she welcomed its immensity as
once it had oppressed her. God and her soul, and
love, and light, and space 1
After this for some weeks she went through extra­
ordinary spiritual experiences, the like of which had
never previously so much as entered into her heart
to imagine. And she came to these experiences with
great innocence as she had never read any religious
or psychological book. For a period of some months
she was in such a state of exaltation and enhance­
ment of all her faculties that she did not know her­
self. Without any intention or endeavour on her own
part she was suddenly become like a veritable house
of a rt! The most beautiful music flowed through
her mind—a music without a trace of sadness in it.
And it swayed her so that she would go into a white'
197
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
heat of emotion oyer it. Colour and form, imagery
of all kinds would pass through her, till she cried out
with regret that she had not the training of an artist
to bring them to material expression. An object of
quite ordinary charm would seem, because of this
something which now filled her, to expand into pro­
digious beauty. The very pavements and houses,
mean and hideous as they were, would overflow with
some inexplicable glamour. The world was turned
into paradise.
But this wonderful state of things gradually passed
away. And again she was tasting sadness. At one
time of day she would be in an ecstasy of delight,
and an hour later in some altogether unreasonable
depth of depression. Her love for God was as great
as ever, but it had become a love all made of tears.
Most certainly she had not found the peace of God.
On the contrary, her life had become an indescribable
turmoil.
Her fellow-beings gave her no help. Men could
no longer please her and she could not please G od !
Spiritually she was alone. And physically also she
would have liked to be alone. And she ached and
longed, and dreamed of solitude till it was like a
sickness.
Then, believing herself to be a sensible and prac­
tical person she would say to herself that, her con­
dition being so unreasonable, must be got out of, and
she must make every effort to do it.
She prayed for two things—that she might love
God with a cheerful countenance, and that He would
teach her quickly what to pray for. In answer He
gave her the impulse to pray for more and greater
love.
Next she banished her own feelings as much as
198
CONTACT WI TH GOD
possible and returned to the thought of Jesus and
to loving inward conversation with him. And with
all her will and strength she strove to climb out of
her miserable condition.
Then one night, as she composed herself as usual
for sleep, she lay for a time neither asleep nor yet
quite awake, for the wakefulness was not the usual
wakefulness. Then her consciousness became alight
with a new fiery energy of life and seemed to extend
to an infinite distance beyond her body and yet re­
main connected with her body. She lived in a manner
totally new and totally incomprehensible—a life in
which none of her senses was used and which was
yet a thousand times as vivid as ordinary life. It
was living at white heat—without forms, without
sound, without sight, without anything which she
had ever been aware of in this world. And it was
living at terrible speed.
For six weeks every night she entered this con­
dition. And the duration and power and intensity
of it increased by degrees. It felt as if her soul
was projected or travelled for incalculable distances
beyond her body. And she learned to comprehend
and to know a new manner of living, as a swimmer
learns a new mode of progression by means of his
swimming.
By the end of three weeks she was able to remain
nightly for many hours in this condition. And it
was always acco mpanied by an intense and vividcon­
sciousness of God. But as this consciousness of God
became more and more vivid, so did her body suffer
more and more. She could hardly eat the smallest
morsels of food, and even they almost choked her.
She had scarcely any sleep, and she suffered at night
199
A PK0 T E 8 TA NT MYSTIC
from her breathing and heart. Yet she was per­
fectly healthy. Her love of God gave her supreme
confidence. She was glad that He should do as He
pleased with her ; and she had no anxiety whatever.
As she came out of this intense abstraction—this
strange valley of humiliation, poverty, solitude—it
seemed a necessary prelude to the great, the supreme
experience of her life. For now the joyousness of her
spiritual experience increased. The nights were not
at all a time of sleep or repose, but of rapturous
living.
The sixth week came, and she began to fear the
nights and their tremendous living. The happiness,
the light, the poignancy and the rapture of it were
becoming more than she could bear. Secretly she
began to wonder whether God did not intend to
draw her soul so near to Him that she would die of
the splendour of this living.
Then came a night when she passed beyond ideas,
beyond melody, beyond beauty, into vast lost spaces,
and depths of untellable bliss, into a Light. And the
Light was an ecstasy of delight. And the Light was
an ocean of bliss. And the Light was Life and Love.
And the Light was too deep contact with God And
the Light was unbearable joy.
Her soul, her whole being, was terrified of God,
and of joy. She dared not think of Him or pray.
Like some pitiful, wounded child she crept to the
feet of Jesus. And when on the following evening
she composed herself for the night, she wondered
tremblingly to what God would again expose her.
But for the first time in six weeks she fell into a
natural sleep and knew no more until the morning.
200
A CHANGED LIFE
Then she knew that the lesson was over. “ Mighty
and Terrible God it was enough! ” she exclaimed.
And that night— that Night o f Terror, that Night of
Too Great Happiness, as she called it—was for her
soul the turning point of her destiny. That night
altered her soul for ever more. That night she knew
God as deeply as He can be known whilst the soul
is in the flesh.
Wonderful, beautiful weeks went by, filled with
divine, indescribable peace. The Presence of God
was with her day and night. And the world was no
longer the world she had known it—a place where
men and women fought and sinned and toiled and
anguished. It had become a paradise. And the
glamour of life in unity with God became past all
comprehension and all words. Life was one long
essence of delight— a harmony of flowing out and
back again to God.
A wonderful change had crept all through her. If
God could come at any moment of the day or night
and turn over every secret page of heart and mind
He would not have found one thought or glimmer of
any sort or kind of lust. And all at once she realized
the miracle that Christ had worked in her, and the
words came over her mind, “ Though thy sins be as
scarlet, they shall be white as snow.” Tears of joy
that was an agony of gratitude poured like rain down
her face. And very quietly she took her heart and
her mind and her soul and laid them for ever at the
feet of Jesus.
Then one evening as she knelt, as was her custom,
for a few moments of intense prayer, her heart and
mind with great power bent wholly and singly upon
God, He drew her powerfully to Him. And He en-
M
.M
. 201 o
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
compassed her with so much glamour that this single­
ness and concentration of thought continued longer
than usual. And because of the magnetism the con­
centration became an intensity of penetration. And
God turned on to her and her mind became faint
and died and she could no longer think of or on
God. For she was one with Him. One with Him
though still her own self.
She was become Ineffable Joy. She had been in
contact with God in an unutterable bliss and repose.
And this time He had given her the bliss tenderly and
not as on that Night of Terror. And this most blessed
happening happened to her every day for a short time,
usually lasting for a few moments—God in this way
enabling her to contemplate and know Him. And she
saw that this experience was in some ways at one with
her “ beautiful pastime ” (of meditating on the beauties
of nature), but with this tremendous difference—that
whereas her mind had formerly concentrated itself
upon the beautiful, and remaining mind had soared
away above all forms into its nebulous essence in a
strange, seductive anguish, it was now drawn and
magnetized beyond the beautiful directly to the maker
of Beauty. In this living was no note of pain, but a
marvellous joy. And the soaring was like a death or
swooning of the mind : she was living with that which
was above mind.
This is her experience, extended over several months,
of what is sometimes called union with God, or Reali­
zation of God, but which she preferred to call contact
with God and which might perhaps be simply de­
scribed as awareness or consciousness of the Spirit
which animates the universe. As a thoughtful cell
in her brain might become aware of the spirit which
202
RESERVE
animated her, so did she in these experiences become
aware of the Spirit which animates the universe.
That is possibly how her experience of contact with
God might be described. And we may be helped to
understand the better by studying her own reflections
on them.
First, we may note that she kept on insisting that
they were indescribable. In the same breath as she
described them she would say that they were past all
description. What she had found was “ impossible to
pass on to others.” “ In this celestial living,” she
says, “ are happenings which cannot be communicated,
or even indicated to others, because they reach beyond
words, beyond all other experiences, beyond all parti­
cularization, beyond any possible previous imagina­
tion. . . .” But what the ravishment of happiness
was cannot be known or guessed till we ourselves have
experienced it. It can be known but not named.
And besides this impossibility of describing her ex­
periences she had a natural shyness in communicating
these intimate things of the soul to any other.
Though here also was the counter-desire of wanting to
tell everybody. She was filled with the beauty of her
experiences as lovers are filled with the beauty of
their love. And she longed to speak about it. But
she was frightened. Something held her back.
What she could not speak about to her friends she
could, under the cloak of anonymity, tell to the world
at large. And she could at least try to describe the
indescribable. And these subsequent reflections of
hers upon her descriptions may perhaps aid us still
better to understand her experiences.
She had sought God. She had spent years o f
striving. She had known the stress, the sweat of
climbing to God’s footstool—the sweat that at times
203
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
was like drops of blood wrung out of her soul, out of
her heart, out of her mind. And now that she had
found God, all this had been forgotten on the instant.
But what was God like when she had found Him ?
How far different was He from the White Figure sitting
on a white throne of her childhood ?
Evidently He was no Figure at all. No concrete
Object. No Form. “ It cannot possibly be said,”
she writes, “ that in ecstasy we see God : it is a ques­
tion of ‘ knowing ’ Him through the higher part of the
soul in lesser or in deeper degrees.” She did not see
God but she experienced Him. The Divine radiations
and penetration were the fulfilment of all her desires
and needs—and fulfilment in over-abounding measure.
This finding God is “ encounter with the Supreme
Spirit. It is life at its perfection point—a stupendous
felicity, and that repose in bliss for which all souls
secretly long. It is the meeting of the Wisher and the
Wished ; of Desire with the Desired. And yet being
unthinkable fulfilment it is above all, or any wishes,
and beyond desire. . . . In this Spirit-life we meet
the ideas of God uncrystallized into any form. They
penetrate the soul. She flashes to them, she becomes
them, she reaches unimaginable heights of bliss. . . .
“ God is life itself to us—the air, the bread, and the
blood of the soul. No one can live without, at every
moment, drawing upon Him, however unconscious
they may be that they are.”
The tremendousness of God is one of her chief im­
pressions. “ To find God is to live tremendously,”
she writes. And she speaks of the “ immensity of
God’s attraction,” of “ the terrible might o f the
activity of celestial joy.”
Answering the question whether God does not feel
to be a fire, she says:
204
H E A V E N L Y LI VI NG
“ Yes, and no, for we feel we shall be consumed,
and yet it is not a burning which is experienced,
but a blissful energy of the most inexpressible and
unbearable intensity, which seems to disintegrate or
disperse the flesh. So long as this is given with
certain limits the experience is blissful to heart and
mind. Beyond that limit it is bliss-agony. Beyond
this again it would soon be death to the body— a
very terrible feeling which does not bear remembering
or thinking about.”
And this bliss—this ecstasy of delight—is the essen­
tial feature of union with God. And the value of
ecstasy to him to whom it is granted is that “ it raises
him above faith into certitude ; and the strength and
peace given by certitude are such that joy is neither
here nor there : the soul can wait for it. In these
experiences
“ the soul stood steadied before God in an unutter­
able happiness which she perceived had no limit but
God’s will and her own capacity to endure the rap­
ture. . . . There is nothing in life,” she adds, “ so
wonderful, so rapturous as the swift reunion of the
soul with God. And the joy is not only the joy of
the soul, because the heart and the mind have their
full of it too : they too have ached, and thirsted and
longed, and now are satisfied.”
And the joy begets a love in comparison with which
every love on earth is a poor, pale counterfeit.
Union with God is all one same joy ; it is the joy
of angels reduced to such a degree as makes it bearable
to the flesh. It is a mode of heavenly living.
This indeed is the main conclusion—that in finding
God she had discovered a new mode of living—a
higher state of being—which she calls “ the angelic
state.”
205
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
“ Ecstasies inspire and awaken the sou l: they con­
vince the mind absolutely of the existence of another
form of living.” And this form of living is the true
love-state brought to completion by beholding Grod.
And “ when God communicates Himself to the soul
she lives in a manner never previously conceived of,
reaching an experience of living in which every per­
fection is present to her as being there in such un­
limited abundance that the soul is overwhelmed by
it and must fall back to the less because of the in­
supportable excess of perfections.”
And it is to be noted that “ this perfection of living
is given and withdrawn outside of her own will.”
Her experience indicated that it did not depend only
on her whether she found this new and joyous mode
of living. Doubtless, it would not have come to her
unless she had sought and striven and sweated drops
of blood from the soul. Yet with all this agony of
striving she might never have attained this celestial
living by herself. Something more was needed.
Something from outside her—something from above.
She speaks of grace coming and departing—and
coming in lesser and greater intensity— of the presence
of God, love and comfort enveloping the soul.
There is penetration by radiation from outside, and
she is overpowered by the might and the excess of
joy. Yet we note that in this new state
“ we are not lost in God—that is to say we do not
disappear as a living individual consciousness : our
consciousness is increased to a prodigious degree, and
we are one with God. . . . We become by the love
of Him so large that we seem to embrace the whole
universe within our own self! In some mysterious
way we become in sympathy with all things in the
bond of His making.”
206
M A R R I A G E - L O V E
And in the same deep, mysterious fashion marriage-
love in all its aspects is included in this love of God.
To the lover of God all affections go up and are en­
closed in one affection, so that we have no love for
anyone or anything apart from God. And marriage-
love is included in this. In every way it can become
a sacrament, she says. There is nothing in it which
is not holy. In no way does the marriage bond of
the body separate the spirit from acceptableness to
God. Marriage is the physical prototype in this
physical world of the spiritual union with God in the
spiritual world. This relationship between men and
women is His thought, His plan, not ours. Our re­
sponsibility is only to keep the bond of it pure and
clean and sweet, and submit ourselves in all things as
completely and orderly as possible to His plans,
whatever they may be. He has no wish to impose
distress and suffering on us. His will towards us is
pure joy, pure love, pure peace, pure sweetness. This
bond of earthly marriage is of the flesh and can be
kept by the body, and yet the heart, mind and soul
remain in lovely, perfect charity. This was the
exquisite freedom she found.
What was the effect upon her—the immediate effect
of the moment and the deep-down ultimate effect upon
her whole life ? We might well suppose that at least
the momentary effect of such a terrific experience
would be the shattering of her nerves. She was
always of a tense, sensitive, highly strung nature;
and on the face of it we would conjecture that the
impact on her of such tremendous spiritual forces
would have smashed her delicate nervous system to
shreds. The result was precisely the opposite. The
inrush of the spirit actually steadied her. She says
207
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
of herself that she was “ never so sane, so capable—
never so perfectly poised.”
And she was a great deal more than sane, and
capable and perfectly poised: her whole life was
altered. She felt an “ immense and altogether inde­
scribable enhancement of life and of all her faculties.”
In great amazement she would say to herself that she
had never until then known what life was.
The more she saw of other people the more she
realized how greatly changed she was. They were
bound. She was free. They were bound by anxieties,
worries, apprehension of evil things, sadness, fears of
death for their loved ones or for themselves. She was
freed of all these troubles. She seemed to herself to
have been lifted into the way of Love. True, she had
to struggle, suffer and endure in order to keep herself
in this way of Love. But her sufferings, struggles and
endurances were for love, and in love, and because of
love. They were in themselves beautiful. And in
recollection they left nothing inharmonious. They
were the difficult prelude to a glorious melody.
She does acknowledge, however, that it took much
time and much pain to learn how to combine this in­
ward life of blessed intercourse with God with the
outward life of intercourse with her fellow-beings. In
the early stages she had innumerable difficulties and
was terrified of losing God. She did not understand
how to leave God and return to earthly duties. At
times when, while she was altogether wrapped up in
God, the voice of some fellow-being would recall her
to the world the pain would be so great as to be
nothing less than anguish. This return, however, she
learned in time to accomplish without a shock. What
remained and grew was the difficulty of carrying on
a conversation with anyone unless it was about God,
208
PRESENCE OF GOD
or about some work for Him. She could not converse
for more than an hour on any other subject without
the most deadly exhaustion, both bodily and spiritual.
Her face and lips would lose all colour and her eyes
their vitality. And so dreadful was the distress of
her whole being that she was obliged, upon any kind
of pretext, to withdraw from all companions, and, if
it were only for five minutes, be alone with God.
Then, once she was again united with Him her whole
being would be revivified. For nothing else in life
was so wonderful, so rapturous as this swift reunion
of her soul with God.
The result upon her of these spiritual experiences
was that the efforts of her entire being were now bent
on trying to perfect herself. The feeling for God
which before ecstasy was a deep and often very painful
longing now increased to a burning, never-ceasing
desire for Efim. And whereas before union God’s
Presence had been near—though how near she knew
not, or whether she could be sure of finding it—now,
after union, she was certain of finding God’s Presence
everywhere and at any time.
God would, indeed, withdraw Himself at times.
And then she would suffer renewed agonies. But she
would know whereabouts He was. He would merely
disappear from her consciousness but not so entirely
that she could not partly find Him.
Amongst the most noticeable changes in her mind,
she remarked that it had become very simple in its
requirements and very restful. It no longer darted
here and there gathering in this and that fancied
treasure, as a bird darts at flies. It had dropped out­
side objects in order to hover round the thoughts of
God. And these thoughts were not particularized;
they floated quietly and contentedly in a general
209
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
peaceful fragrance of beauty. It was the same con­
tentment as a mother has beside her babe, neither
talking to it nor touching it but happy in knowing
that it was near—or as two lovers sitting near together
and happy without any need of speech.
Yet it is remarkable that she did not consider her­
self rendered permanently incapable of sin. She ex­
pressly says that, even after all the blessings God had
showered upon her she did not trust herself: she still
remained fundamentally the sinner. Love and grace
might surround her, might save her from herself,
might beautify her, and make her shine. But
potentially at every step she remained the sinner, she
said.
There were, of course, times of waning after waxing
to such heights. There were joyless, flat, ungracious
times when a kind of paralysis of the soul, and dreary
torpor set in. This was terrible. And she would feel
that this withered state must endure to the end. She
became convinced that God had nothing more to give
and had withdrawn His graciousness from her com­
prehension, leaving her as a tiny, unwanted speck in
the vast universe. But these sufferings she came to
see were just what was required to develop courage,
humility, endurance, love, and generosity.
Another very remarkable effect upon her was that
the poignancy and distress of pain disappeared.
Trouble of several kinds came to her—the death of
one very dear, the severe illness of another, a serious
operation on her brother, and a slight but very painful
operation on herself. She felt terribly nervous and
fearful of the pain of her own and her brother’s opera­
tion. But she hung on to God, and by means and
because of love, she passed out of herself and was able
to hand over everything which she was, or had, or
210
GREAT PEACE
thought, or did to God ; and in exchange she received
His peace. Thus-wise she handed over her brother
and her dead and her anxieties for herself into His
hands and went to her operation with the same
serenity that she would go to meet a friend. She was
calm, and less nervous than anyone else. The anaes­
thetic failed before the operation was completed and
she was aware of atrocious pain. Yet by the grace
of God her mind and soul were able immediately to
raise and to maintain themselves in high consciousness
of God so that the operation could be finished without
a cry or movement of the body. And this grace con­
tinued for days afterwards, and though the pain of
wounds continued severe enough to interfere with
sleep, her mind remained calm as a lake. Pain had
no sting or fear or fret.
The main effect, however, was to create a piercing
need in her to share her joy with others. To all her
fellow-souls she cried, “ Why fret and toil, why sweat
and anguish for the things of earth, when our own
God has in His hand such bliss and peace and happi­
ness to give to every man ? Oh, come and receive i t :
every man his share.”
She had this great longing to share the knowledge
and the exquisite balm with her fellows. She longed
to speak about i t ; to know how they felt about it.
But she was frightened to speak. Something held
her back. Perhaps her native reticence. But also
the difficulty of making people understand. To illus­
trate a mere fraction of this difficulty she takes the
case of a man bom blind.
“ You put a blade of grass and a leaf of a tree
in his hand and you say to him ‘ This is grass, and
this is a leaf, and both are green.’ ‘ And what,’ he
asks, ‘ is green ? ’ And to save your life you cannot
211
A PROTESTANT MYSTIC
make him know what it is. How then shall God,
who can be neither seen, nor heard, nor touched,
be made known by one to the other ? He must be
experienced to be known.”
There was the further difficulty that through being
misunderstood more harm than good might be done.
But this much she did do. Constantly the words,
“ Visit the sick,” came to her. She was weary of sick
people, having seen so much of them. But the words
came again with the gentleness of Christ. And the
gentleness pierced. So that day she went to the
village to visit the sick again, and she looked at them
lovingly and tenderly, and tenderly and lovingly they
looked at her. And some say, “ It is as if God came
into the house with you.” And tears come into her
eyes, and she says, “ It may be so, because He sent
me.” And they gaze at her lovingly, and lovingly she
gazes at them. And it seems to her that she can no
longer tell where “ they ” cease and where “ she ”
begins. And the peculiar sweetness of Christ pierces
her through from her heart to her feet. And so she
comprehends that Holy Love is not alone just God
and her, but is also God and her and the others, and
God and the others and her.
Also for total strangers, passers-by in the street,
fellow-passengers by road and rail, here and there,
this one and that, she would pray, joyously, lovingly
holding them up before God for His help and blessing.
It rapidly became the only sorrow of her life that
people did not all come to share this life in which she
lived. “ How that parable knocks at the heart, ‘ Go
out into the highways and hedges and compel them to
come in.’ To know all the fullness of life and not to be
able to bring even my nearest and dearest into it—
what a terrible mystery is this !— it is an agony.”
212
H E R B OOKS
So she wrote ; and others besides her have felt the
same restraining reticence. Yet she did not die with­
out having enshrined her spirit in her little anonymous
books; and through them that spirit may penetrate
deeper and spread further, perhaps, than she had ever
supposed to be possible.
213
CHAPTER V
MASS MYSTICISM
THE WELSH REVIVAL
S
O far we have considered individuals only. Now
we shall consider a mass movement. From
time to time in history there occur spiritual
upheavals. The placid, set face of mankind is stirred,
and men’s souls begin to seethe. Such revivals,
whether in art or religion, become associated with the
name of some one individual—as, for example, in the
case of the Franciscan revival. But they do not neces­
sarily originate with that individual. He may be only
the one round whom the movement centres, as he may
be the one above all others who may best be able to
represent and express the essence of the movement,
which itself must ultimately originate in the Creative
Spirit of the universe, while his part is in a unique
degree to manifest and express that Spirit.
The Welsh Revival of 1904-5 was one of such spiri­
tual upheavals in recent times. It became associated
with the name of Evan Roberts. He did not actually
originate the movement. But he was its chief embodi­
ment ; and he more fully and effectively than any
other manifested its spirit.
Evan Roberts had none of what are ordinarily con­
sidered the advantages of life. He was not bom of
rich, or even well-to-do parents. He had no public
214
E V A N R O B E R T S
school or university education. He was first a miner
and then a blacksmith, and his parents were just
simple working-class folk.
Outwardly and seemingly he possessed no advan­
tages in the struggle of life. Inwardly he had an
incalculably great advantage over his fellows. He
was endowed with an inordinate love of all high and
pure and holy things, and with a sweet, loving and
most sincere and genuine disposition. And he was
brought up in a home where spiritual things counted.
While there was little money there was much affection.
His father was a pump-man and m iner; and his
mother was the daughter of a blacksmith. Both
parents were of a strongly religious disposition, but
it was to the firmness and love of his mother that he
probably owed most. He was one of fourteen children
of these simple-minded poor, industrious parents, and
was bom in 1878.
Between four and five years of age he went to
school, but owing to the necessity of having to earn
something towards his living he had to leave school
three months before he reached his twelfth year. And
at this early start in life he is said to have had a
strong affection for his parents, to have been willingly
obedient to them, orderly in his habits, and clean in
dress, word and conduct.
At twelve he became a door-boy, looking after doors
in the pit of a colliery and earning his first salary.
Wishing to improve his position he began cutting coal
with another man, and at sixteen he and a friend
undertook the working of a heading and earned
five-shillings a day each.
Even when mining, though, he had his Bible by him
and used to read it in snatches. And away from his
work he would read much and attend Chapel meetings
215
MASS M Y S T I C I S M
where he attracted so much attention by his faithful
attendance and earnestness of demeanour that at
twenty-one he was appointed to speak on “ Practical
Atheism ” at a church meeting. And young though
he was at the time he was not unfitted for such a task,
as he had six years before been made teacher in a
Sunday school and proved such a success in winning
the confidence of children that he had later been
appointed superintendent of the children’s school.
At the age of twenty-four he gave up coal-mining
and began to learn the trade of blacksmith. And at
this period the intensity of his longing to spend his
life in the service of Christ began to deepen. He
would spend hours in prayer and reading the Bible ;
and a friend who lived with him says of him that he
was the most real and truest friend he had ever met.
He was seldom seen to take his meals without having
his Bible on the table. And, as he became more and
more possessed of the idea of devoting his whole life
to God, it became less and less possible to continue
his work as a blacksmith. So after fifteen months he
abandoned the work and took steps to qualify himself
for the Ministry.
At this time he read much—in addition to the
Bible. Especially was he influenced by Sheldon’s
In His Steps; or, What Would Jesus Do ? He
learned music and could play on the piano, harmonium
and organ, and could understand the spirit and quality
of singing. Also, he wrote verses. And in both music
and poetry he was much influenced by the Calvinist
Methodist hymn-book. And the more he read and
prayed and taught the more his spiritual appetite grew.
He could not have enough. His spirit was ever reach­
ing out in prayer for more—and o f the very holiest.
But now came most terrible spiritual conflicts.
216
HIS S T R U G G L E S
Spiritual heights are not climbed without struggle and
endurance. The more he strove to purify his thoughts
and life the more conscious he became both of his own
shortcomings and of the evils in the world about him,
and the more he yearned to better it. His mind
dwelling constantly on the purity and holiness of
Christ became intensely aware how far short of that
standard he himself was ; and he struggled and
strained to be more like Him. Then his attachment
to his fellows made him yearn to get them also to be
more like Christ: and he would have liked to have
given up all his time and all his energies to this twin
task of bettering himself and bettering his fellows.
But between him and the fulfilment of his task were
many obstacles. He had to earn a living ; and while
earning a living it was hard to find the time and the
opportunity for training himself. Home ties also
bound him. It was a difficult thing for a young, half-
trained blacksmith to break away from home and from
his trade to set out and reform the world. Who was
he ? men would say, and his own family would say,
to set himself above them.
Throughout 1903 his desire to become a preacher
grew in strength, and in November he wrote to a friend
in the m inistry saying he had definitely decided to
give up his trade of blacksmith and qualify for the
ministry. “ I have had enough of bodily labour, as
my soul thirsts for knowledge and a wider sphere
of usefulness.” His friend encouraged him, and in
December 1903 he decided, once for all, to abandon his
trade and train himself for the ministry. But he had
still to face his family, and the uncle who had put up
the money for his training as blacksmith. It was a
situation from which he shrank, and his mother had
to act as intermediary.
K.K. 217 p
MASS M Y S T I C I S M
His first sermon was preached on December 18,
1903, in the chapel of his native place, Loughor, his
text being, “ And He said to them all, if any man will
come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his
cross daily and follow Me.” It well exemplified the
ruling passion of his life—to get the world to follow
Jesus.
Subsequently he was allowed to go through the
Swansea district on probation, attending each of
twelve churches. He commenced in January 1904;
and in April he was accepted as a candidate for the
ministry and urged to prepare for the provincial
examination which was to be held in August.
These were the outward circumstances. Inwardly
he was all the time preparing himself by prayer.
Hours every day he would spend in prayer. And
prayer had always been the distinguishing feature of
his religious life. From childhood it was as natural
to him as breathing. He would completely lose him­
self in prayer, and constantly feel himself drawn into
communion with God. And not in audible words
would he pray but in the silence of his heart. And
when he prayed in public his prayers were of extra­
ordinary intensity. His supplications to Heaven
showed a yearning of spirit and an agony of soul that
profoundly moved his hearers. They came from the
depth of his soul with such feeling as to melt the hearts
of the congregations. With such fervency and such
earnestness would he pray as to shake his whole con­
stitution and leave him in a weakened condition.
Men were awestruck with his strange intensity.
Every word seemed the product of his whole being,
body and soul; and his sighs appeared to rise from
the deep and pass along every nerve.
As a result of this long and persistent yearning after
218
S P I R I T U A L E X P E R I E N C E
God he had in the spring of 1904, while he was pre­
paring himself for the ministry, the supreme ex­
perience of his life :
“ One Friday night last spring (1904), when praying
by my bedside before retiring, I was taken up into a
great expanse, without time or space—it was com­
munion with God. Before this it was a far-off God
that I had. I was frightened that night, but never
since. So great was my shivering that I rocked the
bed and my brother awakened, took hold of me,
thinking I was ill. After that I was awakened every
night a little after one. This was most strange, for
through the years I slept like a rock and no dis­
turbance in my room would arouse me. From that
hour I was taken up into divine fellowship for about
four hours. What it was I cannot tell you, except
that it was divine. About five I was allowed to sleep
until nine.”
In an interview with Mr. W. T. Stead he described
the same experience:
“ At one o’clock in the morning suddenly I was
wakened up out of my sleep, and I found myself,
with unspeakable joy and awe, in the very presence
of Almighty God. And for the space of four hours
I was privileged to speak face to face with Him as a
man speaks face to face with a friend. At four
o’clock it seemed to me as if I again returned to
earth.”
In answer to Mr. Stead’s question whether he was
not dreaming he replied:
“ No, I was wide awake. And it was not only that
morning, but every morning for three or four months.
Always I enjoyed four hours of that wonderful com­
munion with God. I cannot describe it. I felt it,
219
MASS MYSTI CI SM
and it changed all my nature. I saw things in a
different light. And I knew that God was going to
work in the land, and not this land only but all the
world.”
In his home they would question him about being
so late, but “ it was too divine,” he said later, “ to say
anything about.” “ It was the most divine, light and
happy communion ” —the most divine thing he ever
experienced.
In another description of this experience to the Rev.
D. M. Phillips, he said that God used to be in the
distance to him till then, but then He came so near
as to fill him with divine awe. Every member in his
body trembled until the bed was shaking and Dan,
his brother, awoke and shouted, “ Are you ill, Evan ? ”
“ Oh ! no,” he answered, “ beginning to get well I am.”
This experience continued unceasingly for three
months, and it was so sweet he feared to lose it if he
went, as he had intended, to the Grammar School at
Newcastle-Emlyn to train for the ministry. Again a
terrible struggle took place within him—the struggle
between the desire to go off there and then on his
mission to save men’s souls and the desire to educate
himself further for his task. If he went to the school
he might lose his precious daily communion with God
and lose the opportunity of working for God. If he
did not go he might embark half-trained on his career.
He sought light in prayer and decided to go to the
school; and he entered it on September 13, 1904.
But it happened as he had feared. For a whole
month God came to him no more. He was in dark­
ness. His heart became as a stone. Even the sight
of the Cross brought no tears to his eyes. At the
same time he was quite unable to remain with any
book except the Bible. He could not get his mind on
220
DESCENT OP THE SPIRIT
to grammar and algebra and Latin and other subjects
required for the examination. When engaged in his
school books he was possessed with some strange, un­
accountable feeling and suffered most terribly in body
and mind. His only relief was to throw away the
school book and seize the Bible. Then only did peace
come. He conferred with able men and when they
advised him to cling to his studies he summoned all
his powers to adopt their advice and prayed earnestly
for strength of purpose. But nothing availed. He
must proceed at once on his life’s work.
The deciding moment came when the Rev. Seth
Joshua commenced a series of meetings in the Metho­
dist chapel at Newcastle-Emlyn, on Sunday, Sep­
tember 25, 1904. Evan Roberts was confined to Ins
bed with a severe cold. But his friend Sydney Evans
attended the Monday meeting and reported that it
was full of God and that it was attended by a number
of young ladies from New Quay in Cardiganshire,
amongst whom the revival spirit had broken out in
February. On Tuesday, Sydney Evans and some
other students came to Evan Roberts to persuade him
to come to the meeting.
“ The minute they asked me,” said Evan Roberts,
“ I felt the Spirit descending on me. The irresistible
possessed me, and I rushed to the chapel without
my overcoat. The divine influence began to bear on
me heavily. I had been praying on Monday even­
ing in the house for strength for the girls from New
Quay. But the Spirit would not allow me to pray
in chapel on Tuesday night. I felt hard, and wept
bitterly because of my hardness of heart.”
On Wednesday they were to go to Blaenanerch for
a meeting. But he felt like a flint—as if every feeling
221
MASS M Y S T I C I S M
had been swept from his bosom. In the evening they
returned to Newcastle-Emlyn. On that evening he
attended a meeting conducted by the Rev. Seth
Joshua. And in response to the latter’s request for
all who possessed full assurance of faith to stand, he
was one of the first of the very few who stood up.
The following day, September 29, was another of
the crucial days in his career. With Mr. Joshua and
about twenty others they again started for Blaenan-
erch. On the way his feelings varied up and down—
now gloomy, hard and cold, now joyous. But at the
evening meeting all was definite and decisive.
“ My bosom,” he said, “ was full to overflowing.
On our way to the nine o’clock service the Rev. Seth
Joshua said: ‘ We are going to have a wonderful
meeting to-day.’ I answered, ‘ I am just bursting.’
I felt in going to the meeting that I was compelled
to pray.
“ When the meeting commenced many prayed, and
I asked the Holy Spirit, ‘ Shall I pray now ? ’ ‘ No,’
said the Spirit. Shortly, some wonderful influence
came over me. I felt some living energy or force
entering my bosom. It held my breath. My legs
trembled terribly. This living energy increased and
increased as one after the other prayed, until it nearly
burst me. And as each finished I asked, ‘ Shall I
pray now ? ’
“ When someone finished, I prayed. My bosom
boiled all through, and if I had not prayed I would
have burst. What boiled my bosom ? It was the
verse, ‘ For God commendeth His love/ I fell on my
knees with my arms stretched out on the seat before
me. The perspiration poured down my face. And
my tears streamed so quickly I thought that the
blood came out. It was awful on me for about ten
minutes. I cried, *Bend me, bend me. Oh ! Oh !
222
HIS VOCATION
O h ! ’ It was God commending His love that bent
me, and I not seeing anything m Him to commend.
“ After I was bent, a wave of peace filled my
bosom. When I was in this feeling the audience sang
heartily:
*I am coming, Lord !
Coming now to Thee ! 9
“ What came to my mind after this was the bend­
ing in the day of judgment. Then I was filled with
sympathy for the people who will have to bend in
the judgment day, and I wept. Afterwards, the
salvation of souls weighed heavily on me. I felt
on fire to go through all Wales to tell about the
Saviour.”
Evan Roberts had at last found himself. The call
from without had met the urge from within and he
had found his “ vocation.” It was, in his own words,
“ the most awful and most pleasant day ” of his life.
The next day he planned out a scheme for going
through all Wales to offer Christ to sinners. He and
Sydney Evans and seven women, including some of
those from New Quay, were to undertake the task.
As to the cost, he intended to defray all expenses
himself. He had £200 in the bank, and he would use
the whole.
On the Saturday— October 1—he went over to New
Quay, fifteen miles distant, to talk over the plan.
There he received a warm welcome from hisfriends, and
they prayed for light, but none was forthcoming, and
he returned to Newcastle-Emlyn the same evening.
For some days more he remained there discussing with
Sydney Evans his next steps and scheming to save
one hundred thousand souls in Wales.
To his brother Dan he writes at this time that he
was “ healthy and joyful,” that he had lost all ner-
223
MASS MYSTI CI SM
vousness and was “ courageous for Christ and joyful
in Christ.” He wonders whether Dan is in possession
of the joy of the Gospel.
“ I know that you have peace,” he writes, “ but
ask for joy, though if you wish to possess it you
must be ready to do what the Spirit will say: you
must be ready to give yourself absolutely into the
hands of the Holy Spirit.”
In a similar gladsome strain he writes on October 11
to Mr. Davies, a member of Moriah Chapel at Lou-
ghor: “ I was having great pleasure with the work
before, but now I am having the most pure joy on
earth.” And in addition to reiterating that he had
“ lost all nervousness ” he also mentions that he had
lost some physical impediment which had prevented
him singing and he could now “ sing all day long.”
In a letter to his sister Mary, dated October 28, he
again refers to the sense of joy which possessed him.
“ The old fashion was to draw a long face when
speaking of religious things. But it was most part
of it based on hypocrisy and based on the thought
that God is a solemn and just God, forgetting that
God is a happy God and a joyful God. Now, how­
ever, when we speak of religion we are full of joy.
Our faces are lit up with joy.”
At this very time, though, he had much to test his
capacity for happiness. In the same letter to his
sister he tells of obstacles he is encountering. “ Down­
right lies ” are being told about him. “ Some say we
go to see the young girls, and not for the cause. . . .
Others say we are only shamming. . . . Others scoff
and make light of these spiritual things.” And be­
sides these minor obstructions there was the more
serious trial that many were thinking his mind was
224
COMMENCES MISSION
becoming deranged. His late hours, his deep praying,
disturbed his landlady and made her think there was
something “ strange ” about him. And when in the
daytime he would incessantly gaze at the sun and
during the night at the moon and stars he caused no
little anxiety to his acquaintances. But though he
well knew the opinion of many as to his mental
derangement, that would not make him swerve : he
meant to have a revival.
On October 28 he attended a revival meeting con­
ducted by the Rev. Joseph Jenkins and assisted by
many from New Quay. It was full of religious en­
thusiasm, and he found himself in his element. Think­
ing that Jesus was not sufficiently glorified, he prayed
in such a maimer as no one in the audience had heard
before. The fervour created was intense. And,
though the meeting began at six, it was not till eleven
that they could close, and it was not till 3 a.m. that he
and Sydney Evans could get to bed. Even then they
did not sleep, and Evan Roberts began to weep bitterly
and sigh deeply in thinking of Christ’s humiliation and
the greatness of His love. He said next morning that
he did not sleep all night, and the divine outpouring
had been so heavy he had to shut it out and beg God
to withhold His hand.
Events were now moving to a crisis. A decision to
go home to Loughor and work among the young people
there was come to during the evening service on
Sunday, October 30, at Newcastle-Emlyn. It was
made under the impelling influence of the Holy Spirit.
In the morning service, at an afternoon meeting, and
at tea he had felt himself under some wonderful in­
fluence, and his prayers and manner had been so
strange that his friends were burdened with care for
his mental condition. At the evening service he
225
MASS MYSTICI SM
seemed to them to be unconscious of all that was going
on and to be absorbed in communion with God. He
himself, in a letter written the next morning, says
that the Spirit brought the care of the young people
(at Loughor) before him so powerfully that it was im­
possible for him to keep his mind from them. “ I had
to pray three times for quietness. From that time
until the end of the service the place was filled with
the Divine Presence and at times I would lose the
minister, seeing only his form.” In another letter,
also written the next day, he says there seemed to be
a voice, as if it said, “ You must go, you must go.”
And he had a vision of a meeting of young people at
Loughor.
The spiritual impulse and the voice and the vision
determined him, and that same night he told his
friends that the next morning he was going home to
Loughor. And what that decision must have meant
we may realize when we recall that it was only a few
months previously that he had given up his trade of
blacksmith to qualify himself for the ministry. Now
he was giving up his training at Newcastle-Emlyn to
start at once upon his spiritual mission, and to start
it in that most difficult place of all—his own home—
and in face of derision, scoffing, gross imputations, of
doubts even among his friends of his sanity, and of
questions as to what need there was for him to go
when there were already plenty of m inisters. And he
was to act single-handed. For even his great friend
Sydney Evans was unable to go with him.
The next day, October 31, he reached Loughor.
His family were surprised at this sudden return from
his training, and his mother warned him that if he
went through Wales preaching he would have no
money left for College. His family were also disturbed
226
REVI VAL SPREADS
by his strange ways—at one time laughing, at another
bursting into tears. They, too, feared that his mind
was deranged. And for that reason both his brother
Dan and his sister refused to go with him to the service
in the evening, though both they and his mother went
to the meeting for young people which he had arranged
to take place after the Service.
At the close of the usual service it was announced
that there would be a meeting for young people
immediately after. Sixteen adults and one little girl
remained. The rest left the church ; the doors were
closed; and Evan Roberts began his first revival
meeting. No longer was he timid, shy and nervous,
as in former days. Divine boldness and courage
characterized his actions: spiritual happiness was
visible in his face. Anxiety about the future did not
trouble him : the certainty of eternity was on his
side. He told his little audience of his object in
coming home, and he urged them to confess Christ.
Unaccustomed to this strange, new way of carrying
on a service they found it difficult to comply. But
after two hours, and much prayer, he induced them
all to stand up and confess their Saviour.
The next night, at Pisgah, the audience had greatly
increased, and Roberts spoke earnestly on the im­
portance of being filled with the Holy Spirit, obeying
Him, removing all questionable things from one’s life
and confessing Christ. Some of those who had con­
fessed on the previous evening got up and testified
to the happiness which had come to them. And this
gave encouragement, so that six more confessed.
On November 2 he spoke powerfully at a meeting
in Moriah on his four main points: (1) confession
before God o f every sin in our past life ; (2) removal of
anything doubtful in our lives; (3) total surrender
227
MASS MYSTI CI SM
and obedience to the Spirit; (4) public confession of
Christ. This was the plan, he said, which the Spirit
had revealed to him. And he tells Sydney Evans that
sixty-five had now stood up to confess Christ, and
that some strange joy had come into their lives in
consequence.
In a young people’s meeting next day things were
by no means so spiritual. Unbelief, disobedience and
prejudice for some time prevailed. He could not
get the people to bend. He urged them still more
solemnly, and at last ten confessed Christ. Then he
prayed earnestly for another ten. And at last slowly,
one after the other, another ten stood up. He was
gradually making his way. And by now the people
were overcoming their prejudices against his method.
On the evening of November 4 a new element ap­
peared. People from other denominations came to
his meeting. Roberts spoke at some length and then
left the meeting free for anyone to take part in.
Singing, praying, confessing, giving testimony took
place ; and before the meeting closed all were con­
vinced that a certain silent, invisible power was at
work among them. On the following evening, though
the meeting was announced for young people, persons
of all ages came, the spiritual tide was evidently
rising and obstacles giving way before it. The
meeting lasted till after midnight and was charged
with suppressed fervour.
The meeting on Sunday, November 6, was, however,
the one in which the gathering momentum was most
obvious. It left its mark on the whole of Loughor
and thrilled the neighbourhood with divine awe.
Some irresistible power seemed to be taking hold of
the people. Evan Roberts, writing the next day to
Sydney Evans and speaking of it and the result of
228
COMING OP THE SPIRIT
the first week’s work in Loughor, says : “ I am almost
too full. My heart is brimming over with joy. . . .
The results of last week’s work are almost incredible.
Peace has been made between many.” His account
of what happened may be given at some length as it
presents most vividly the working of the Spirit:
“ After the service had continued until twelve
o’clock, I said I was not satisfied with it, and that
we must get the blessing, even if it were necessary
to stay there till daybreak. We would have to ‘ strive
with Heaven.’ ‘ Now,’ said I, ‘ we must believe that
the Spirit will com e; not think He will come, not
hope He will come, but firmly believe it.’ Then I
read the promises of God, and pointed out how
definite they were. After this the Spirit said that
everyone was to pray—pray, not confess, not sing,
not give experiences, but pray and believe and wait.
And this was the prayer, c Send the Spirit now, for
Jesus Christ’s sake.’ The prayer began with me.
Then it went from seat to seat— to boys and girls,
young men and maidens. Some asking in silence,
some aloud, some coldly, some warmly, some formally,
some tearfully, some with difficulty, some with strong
voices, some with tender. Oh ! how wonderful! I
never thought of such an effect. I felt the place
being filled. But on went the prayer, the feeling
becoming more and more intense and the place being
filled more and more.
“ I went to see a brother who had been weeping
and sobbing, and who should it be but David Jones.
‘ What is the matter ? ’ said I. ‘ Oh ! ’ he answered,
‘ I have had something wonderful. My heart is too
large for my bosom.’ ‘ Then you have had the Holy
Spirit,’ I told him. The prayer had then ended its
journey but not its message. *Shall we ask for
more ? ’ I asked. ‘ No,’ said David Jones. He had
had as much as he could hold. But there were others
229
MASS MYSTICI SM
who had not had enough. I told them that brother
Jones had had enough, but that we could go on and
ask for more and that Jones could ask God to with­
hold if necessary.
“ Then we added to the prayer, ‘ Send the Spirit
more powerfully for Jesus Christ’s sake.’ The prayer
began its journey. And oh ! with what effect! The
Spirit was coming nearer and nearer all the while. It
descended upon two sisters and they shouted aloud
—shouted as I never heard anyone shout before. The
people made a circle round them and looked amazed
and terrified. But I smiled, saying, ‘ Oh ! there is
no danger.’ And after a few minutes the sisters re­
gained their composure. Then some young brother
began to sing ‘ May Thy blessing,’ and the meeting
closed.”
His second week opened with fervour. The old
Moriah chapel was filled to the door on Monday even­
ing—a thing never known before in the history of its
prayer meetings—and the audience was of all deno­
minations. After a number had confessed, the place
became terrible. Almost all were moved to tears,
and many cried loudly and wept in agony. A new
element was that a number began to pray for those
who felt hard. People were convinced they heard
some powerful noise, and they felt the place filled with
the Divine Presence. One after another fell in agony
because of his soul’s condition. The prayer for the
coming of the Holy Spirit went round, and the whole
audience gave way before some irresistible influence.
The state of things was beyond any description.
Many groaned in agony, others sighed deeply, some
shouted aloud. And for the first time many prayed,
sang, or spoke without being formally requested.
About midnight the influence became intolerable for a
230
HÍS MOTHER CONVERTED
time. The/ meeting was boiling with fervour, and it
was not possible to close it till three in the morning.
After the boiling fervour of the Monday meeting it
was natural that the Tuesday evening should open
with a chill. But that night was memorable for the
“ conversion ” of Evan Roberts’ mother. The meet­
ing had lasted on far into the night without any in­
fluence coming, and some aged people, among them
Mrs. Roberts, began to leave for home. Evan accom­
panied his mother to the door. “ It is better for
you to come back, Mother,” he said; “ the Spirit is
coming nearer now.” “ But the people are sleeping,”
she replied, “ and it will soon be time for them to go to
work.” With that she went home, while her son
stayed with the remainder of the people, who were
mostly young. He gathered these in the middle of
the chapel, and there they wrestled with God till the
place became awful owing to a sweeping divine in­
fluence. It was not till after six on the following
m orning that Evan and his brother Dan reached home
and went to bed. A few hours later he was awakened
by a voice calling, “ Oh ! I’m dying, I’m dying ! ”
He leaped downstairs and found his mother with
clasped hands and closed eyes in a perfect agony of
soul. He swiftly saw what was disturbing her, and
throwing one arm round her and swinging the other
as if leading a tune, sang, “ Praise be to Him.” She
pleaded pitifully for light, and when she was relieved
of her great distress, said that what had weighed on
her mind after leaving the chapel was thinking of
Christ standing in the garden in His agony and her
not staying in the chapel till the end of the service.
Another, and perhaps difficult, convert in his family
was his sister, Mary. On October 28, before he came
home he had written to her, with more sincerity and
231
MASS MYSTICI SM
earnestness than ta ct: “ I would it were possible to
give you the joy I have. It would move away your
sarcasm and light up your face; and your heart
would be at peace. It would be a treat for you to
hear the young ladies from New Quay when they
pray.” He then exhorts her to pray, but first to fed
that she is a lost sinner. And he recommends that
they should have a family altar and she should take
a part. Less than a week later we find him writing
to Sydney Evans that he had begun a family altar,
that Mary reads and Dan prays and that Mary has
begun to pray. And a few days later he is writing
that while Mary used to go to bed before he came
home, now bed for her is out of the question till he
arrives lest she should lose these glorious things.
And now he was receiving invitations to hold meet­
ings outside his native place. In answer to a depu­
tation from the Congregational chapel he went to
Brynteg on Wednesday, November 9. Here the melt­
ing power of the singing was noticeable, and a minister
said he had never seen anything more like a trans­
figuration than the look of some persons who came
under the divine influence. Next night another
meeting was to be held in the same place, but the old
chapel proved too small, and they had to go to the
new one, which was soon packed to every comer.
And as this was the first meeting reported in the Press
—and by a very sympathetic reporter, “ Austin ” —
the published account may be here transcribed:
“ The proceedings commenced at seven o’clock and
lasted without a break until 4.30 a.m. Friday morn­
ing. During the whole of this time the congregation
were under the influence of deep religious fervour and
exaltation. There were about four hundred people
present, of whom the majority were females ranging
232
HIS R E V I V A L METHOD
from young misses of twelve to matrons with babes
in their arms. Mr. Roberts is a young man of rather
striking appearance—tall and distinguished-looking,
with an intellectual air about his clean-shaven face.
His eyes are piercing in their brightness, and the pallor
of his countenance suggests that these nightly vigils
are telling on him.
“ There was, however, no suggestion of fatigue
in the conduct of the meeting. There is nothing
theatrical about his preaching. He does not seek to
terrify his hearers, and eternal torment has no place
in his theology. Rather does he reason with the
people and show them by persuasion a more excellent
way. I had not been many minutes in the building
before I felt this was no ordinary gathering. Instead
of the set order of proceedings everything here was
left to the spontaneous impulse of the moment. Nor
did the preacher remain in his usual seat. For the
most part he walked up and down the aisles, open
Bible in hand, exhorting one, encouraging another,
and kneeling with a third to implore a blessing from
the Throne of Grace.
“ A young woman rose to give out a hymn and it
was sung with deep earnestness. While it was being
sung several people dropped down as if they had been
struck, and commenced crying for pardon. From
another part could be heard the resonant voice of a
young man reading a portion of Scripture. While
from the gallery came an impassioned prayer from a
woman crying aloud that she had repented of her
ways and was determined to lead a better life hence­
forth.
“ All this time Mr. Roberts went in and out among
the congregation offering kindly words of advice to
kneeling penitents and asking them if they believed.
In one instance the reply w as: ‘ No, I would like
to believe, but I can’t. Pray for me.’ Then the
preacher would ask the audience to join him in the
** 233 q
MASS MYSTI CI SM
_ grayer, ‘ Send the Holy Spirit now, for Jesus
Christ’s sake.’ This prayer would be repeated about
a dozen times by all present, when the would-be con­
vert would suddenly rise and declare with triumph,
‘ Thank God, I have now received salvation.’ This
declaration would create a new excitement, and the
congregation would joyously sing,
‘ Diolch iddo, diolch iddo/
I suppose this occurred scores of times during the
nine hours over which the meeting was protracted.
“ A pathetic feature of the proceedings was the
anxiety of many present for the spiritual welfare of
members of their families. One woman was heart­
broken for her husband who was given to drink. She
implored the prayers of the congregation on his be­
half. The story told by another woman drew tears
to all eyes. She said that her mother was dead, and
that her father had given way to sin, so that she was
orphaned in the world. She had attended the meet­
ings and on the previous day, while following her
domestic duties, the Spirit had come upon her, bid­
ding her to speak. And she did speak !—remarkably,
for one who had never spoken before in public. Yet
another woman made public confession that she had
come to the meeting in a spirit of idle curiosity, but
that the influence of the Holy Ghost worked within
her, causing her to go down on her knees in penitence.
At 2.30 a.m. I took a rough note of what was then
proceeding. In the gallery a woman was praying
and she fainted. Water was offered her, but she re­
fused to drink this, saying the only thing she wanted
was God’s forgiveness. . . . A well-known resident
then rose and said that salvation had come to him.
. . . Immediately following, a thanksgiving hymn
was sung, while an English prayer from a new con­
vert broke in upon the singing. The whole congrega­
tion then fell upon their knees, prayers ascending
234
STATE OF F E RV E N C Y
from every part of the edifice, while Mr. Roberts
gave way to tears at the sight. . . . This state of
fervency lasted for about ten minutes and was fol­
lowed by an even more impressive five minutes of
silence broken only by the sobs of strong men. . . .
A hymn was then started by a woman with a beauti­
ful soprano voice. Finally, Mr. Roberts announced
the holding of future meetings, and at 4.25 a.m. the
gathering dispersed.
“ But even at this hour the people did not make
their way home. Dozens of them were about on the
road discussing what is now the chief subject of their
fives.
“ In the course of conversation with Mr. Roberts,
he said it was time to get out of the groove in which
we had walked for so long. He had been praying
for the Holy Ghost to come down upon him. That
it had come he was certain. It was one thing for a
man to be converted and quite another to receive
the baptism of the Spirit. The meetings they had
had were glorious experiences. . . . As for himself,
he was simply an instrument in the hand of God, and
he wanted men to receive the joy of religion.”
This is what a newspaper correspondent reported.
Evan Roberts himself, writing the next day of this
same meeting to a friend, said:
“ I do not know how to begin writing in the midst
of this divine fire. The whole place has been moved,
and my heart bums within with the Holy Spirit. . . .
What a service last night! The girls and the women
shouting aloud, having forgotten themselves. Over
thirty were baptized by the Holy Spirit. . . . The
fire is spreading rapidly and effectually. One of our
deacons at Moriah has been baptized by the Spirit
. . . coming on and embracing and kissing me, clap­
ping his hands, and praising God that he had found
235
MASS MYSTI CI SM
a Saviour. . . . But what prejudice there is against
the movement. Well, I have to say strange things:
I have to open my mouth and speak out. And,
thank Heaven, those things are very effectual. The
Spirit convicts powerfully.”
This was the result of less than a fortnight’s work.
Writing deliberately some years later the Rev.
Vyrwy Morgan says of Evan Roberts that his mind
was shallow and bound by conventional conceptions ;
that he was not intellectual and was moved more by
emotion rather than by his ideas, and had no traces
of culture, no fundamental doctrine, no system of
theology, no distinctive ideal; that he was no ex­
positor or even fluent speaker; that his broken sen­
tences were without depth or moral force ; that there
was nothing of a colossal nature about him, and that
his dimensions were small and his horizon exceedingly
circumscribed. So says a Welsh minister. Yet in
that short time this young ex-miner and blacksmith
had of his own initiative and in that most difficult
place of all, his own native township, set going a
movement which was already stirring the whole
neighbourhood and attracting the provincial Press,
and which was eventually to draw men to him from
England, France and many other countries. In spite
of his being considered— even among his friends and
his family—as deranged ; in spite of his being derided
and scoffed a t ; he was able to do in a fortnight what
many an official minister would have been glad to
have accomplished in a lifetime.
Wherein, then, lay the man’s charm and power that
he was able to achieve so much, with so meagre an
equipment, and in the face of so many obstacles ?
The answer is given by the reporter of these first
236
HIS J OY OUSNESS
meetings. He had an indefinable something in his
manner and style. His joyous smile was that of a
man in whom was no guile. And he convinced people
that his belief in what he preached was impregnable.
The ring of reality was in all he said. That was the
secret. In those months of nightly communion with
God preceding his mission there had come to him
absolute certitude of the joy which may be had in this
heavenly living. He had become possessed of the
Spirit of God. Obedient to the heavenly impulse he
had come to his homeland and spoken with the authen­
tic voice of that Spirit. And men recognized the
accent. It was the accent of a responsible agent of
God. It proclaimed a living message. It brought
glad tidings of great joy for all who would purify their
hearts and open them, as he had, to the inflow of
the same Holy Spirit. His coming had aroused dor­
mant faculties men had not known they possessed,
and had changed and enriched their whole lives. And
as the glad news spread no wonder crowds flocked to
hear him, and demands from everywhere came for
him to appear among them.
Later, under the pressure of these demands, he was
grossly to overdo himself and to break down under the
stress, to lose his charming gentleness and the power
to draw and sw ay; and he was to develop austerity
of manner and peremptoriness of address, and eventu­
ally to break down altogether. But for our present
study his life up to this point is an outstanding ex­
ample both of the working of the Holy Spirit upon an
individual and also of how that individual can by his
personality and by the power which has come into
him communicate to others something of the over­
abounding joy which he himself has experienced and
can arouse in them a passionate longing to fit
237
MASS MYSTI CI SM
and purify themselves for a like inpouring of the
Spirit.
Having noted this, it will now be our business to
trace the other springs of the Welsh revival and de­
scribe its course. We have already seen how Evan
Roberts had met the Rev. Seth Joshua and other
persons from New Quay with whom the revival may
be said to have originated. And their doings we must
now examine.
For some time previous to the appearance of Evan
Roberts there had been a spiritual stirring in South
Wales. More than one minister had been earnestly
praying and working for a revival. Rev. Seth Joshua,
in especial, for four years had made a revival his
supreme aim. And its first actual breaking out may
perhaps be dated from a meeting for young people at
New Quay in Cardigan organized by the Rev. Joseph
Jenkins in February 1904. A sermon of his on “ Faith
Overcoming the World ” had produced a profound
impression. And that evening a young girl, named
Florrie Evans, had come to him telling him of the
oppression of sin upon her. The following Sunday
evening he called for testimonies and Florrie Evans
got up and said : “ I love Jesus with all my heart.”
And she said those few simple words with such burning
fervency of spirit that she thrilled the whole meeting,
and a few sobbed aloud. It was the spark that started
the revival. From then the flame grew in volume and
intensity, so that when the Rev. Seth Joshua visited
New Quay on September 18, he was able to record in
his diary : “ I have never seen the power of the Holy
Spirit so powerfully manifested among the people as
at this place just now. The revival is breaking out
here in great power.”
238
ORIGIN OF R E V I V A L
Two days later lie records that he closed the service
several times ; yet it would break out again quite
beyond the control of human power. “ The joy is
intense,” he adds. And the next day he writes:
“ Every person engaged in prayer without one ex­
ception. The tongue of fire came upon each. We
lost all sense of time.” And of himself he writes : “ I
am saturated, melted, made soft as willing clay in the
hands of a potter.”
He was on his way to Newcastle-Emlyn on Sep­
tember 25. Two days later he writes of some students
receiving blessing and confessing salvation and men­
tions one— Sydney Evans. The next day “ fifteen
young people came all the way from New Quay.”
He himself did not speak, but “ allowed them to
speak, pray, sing and shout as the Holy Ghost led
them.” “ The fire burned all before it,” he adds,
“ their souls were melted and many cried out for salva­
tion.” The following day, September 29, he writes
of a “ grand meeting at Blaenanerch, where many
cried for mercy. . . . It was a remarkable thing to
hear one young man, Evan Roberts.” And we have
already seen how it was at this meeting that Evan
Roberts was first publicly “ bent ” and was caught in
the spirit of the revival. That spirit had been rising
in others as well as himself. And it was under the
impulse which he then received that he travelled to
his native township of Loughor and gave that tre­
mendous impetus to the revival which we have already
recorded.
And now that the news of the revival had been
spread by the Press thousands would flock in from the
villages round where the meetings were being held,
and Evan Roberts himself moved from town to town
holding meetings night after night, each lasting well
239
MASS MYSTI CI SM
into the small hours of the morning. Each meeting
would differ from the other, as there was no fixed order
of procedure. Everything was left to the spontaneous
feelings of the people and to the guidance of the Spirit.
But all were characterized by the same fervency, and
all caught the infectious joy of the Spirit.
And a special characteristic of these meetings was
the moving effect of the singing. A small band of
young women singers joined Evan Roberts and were
marvellously effective in melting and elevating a
meeting. With their Welsh talent and beautiful
voices they would sing the Welsh hymns with the
most thrilling pathos. Instinctively they would
choose some hymn which exactly, by its words and
music, expressed the mood of the moment, and then
render it with telling effect.
Chief of these singers was Annie Davies. She was
eighteen years of age, with a strong, intensely spiritual,
Madonna-like face, with the voice of a nightingale,
and with religious fervour at white-heat within her.
She had this further advantage that she had been
trained by Madame Clara Novello Davies and had
inherited some musical talent from her father, an
underground lampman who conducted the singing at
a Congregational Chapel.
Hearing that Evan Roberts was holding a meeting
on November 17, she decided to go there and see what
it was like. But so great was the crowd, it took her
two hours to get in. The first person she saw was her
sister Maggie, whose face showed that her soul was in
agony. The Spirit of God was evidently working in
her. Annie Davies was at this time indifferent and full
of curiosity, and so continued until nearly the end of
the meeting when, just before closing, Evan Roberts
asked all those to stand up who could say in their
240
ANNI E DAVI ES
hearts that they loved Jesus above everything else.
The two sisters sat together and their first impulse
was to get up and say they did. But some power
kept them to their seats, and soon after the meeting
closed. Then Annie felt very unhappy. Her con­
science spoke very loudly to her, telling her she had
betrayed her Saviour. She tried to sleep but found
it impossible. Everything seemed empty to her.
She must find peace, or die. And she counted every
hour till the time arrived for the next meeting.
When the time came and she entered the chapel
she knew a great power was working there. “ My
soul,” she says, “ was moved to its depths. My tears
flowed freely when the Rev. David Hughes said,
*Sing something, Annie.’ With an irresistible force
I leapt from my seat and sang, ‘ Here is love vast as
the ocean.’ I could not finish it as I was sobbing too
much. And I could not refrain from weeping for the
rest of the meeting.” After the meeting Miss S. A.
Jones, whom she had never seen before, came and
spoke to her and her sister. The three immediately
felt drawn to each other and desired to consecrate their
voices to their Master. They told Evan Roberts of
their desire, and he advised them to pray to be led
into the right path. They went to the next meeting.
A wonderful peace filled Annie Davies’ soul. She
could not help taking part and felt convinced that
God had called her to the work.
Henceforward she was one of the leading influences
in spreading the revival. If a meeting started cold
and chilly she and her companions would melt it with
their singing; and she developed a method of her
own of so entering into the spirit of supplicants or
thanksgivers that she would by her singing help them
to bring out, or would express for them what they
241
MASS M Y S T I C I S M
were unable to give forth by themselves. Often she
would seem in low, quivering tones to be playing a
touching accompaniment to a prayer. Or, again,
with glorious song she would punctuate the stirring
words of a speaker. Or yet again, when the meeting
was in an ecstasy of gladness she would break forth
into a rapturous hymn of thanksgiving and carry her
hearers upward to those yet higher heights they were
yearning to reach. The same hymns known to all,
the same words, the same music she would use. But
by using just the hymn or verse at the moment needed,
and by singing from the profoundest depths of her
beautiful soul, she was able to give to the music and
the words a power to penetrate the souls of others
which those hymns had never possessed before. And
as a result of her singing reinforcing that which others
were saying, what was ice at the commencement of
a meeting was a consuming fire at the end.
We read how Chopin was more deeply moved by
the fresh voice of an unknown singer in a minor role
in an opera than by the greatest of all the others. The
rare beauty which the most rigorous training and most
perfect technique could not capture flowed forth
naturally from the artless singing of the young girl
and captured his heart. In the same way, from the
singing of Annie Davies there flowed an untellable
charm. For besides the beauty in her singing there
was also deep and pure and passionate love for any
and every human soul and a yearning that he, too,
might know the joys that she had known and attain
the peace that now was hers. All this it was that
came out of her singing. And her exquisite voice was
used for no other purpose than that it might reach the
souls of others and thrill them with divinest joy.
For my own part, I have never been so moved by
242
MISS S. A. JONES
any singer. The finest opera singers or the best singers
in cathedral choirs— even the singers in the Salzburg
Cathedral Festival—have left me cold in comparison
with the singing of Annie Davies at one of these
meetings in Wales, when with “ unpremeditated art ”
and on the urge and inspiration of the moment she
burst forth into some hymn of supplication or thanks­
giving. There, one instantly felt, was a sweet and
pure and beautiful soul yearning to draw one up with
her to the loftiest height she could reach with her song;
and all one’s soul went out to her. The greatest artist
in song could do no more. And the thrill of response
an audience gives to the greatest opera singer is a tepid
thing beside the emotion stirred by Annie Davies.
Her companion, Miss S. A. Jones, had not the voice
or the art of Annie Davies. But she had a perhaps
intenser ardency. And I recall how, when one in
the meeting was praying for heaven, she threw her
whole body and soul towards him as she shouted:
“ It is here ! It is here! ’’ And there heaven certainly
was. It was no far-off place and at no distant time.
Those present were for the moment in heaven. The
Kingdom of God in that instant was theirs.
So did the revival spread. Like a fire it flamed
through South Wales. Place after place was caught
in the spirit. The reports in the Press helped to in­
flame it. It became known everywhere and every­
where talked about. Like Annie Davies, thousands
of others came to see what it was like.
And it was like touching living fire. It was no
light excitement. It was terrible and awesome. Too
strong meat for puny souls. In comparison with the
speaking, the singing and the praying at these meet­
ings, the sermons, the music and the prayers of ordi­
nary church services were like thin pipings.
243
MASS MYSTICI SM
Here was a power which pierced with terrifying
force right through the crust of tradition and con­
vention. Men would tremble in agony at the touch.
They would be in a paroxysm of grief. They would
writhe with pain. They would sob like children.
Their hearts would break in contrition. They would
wail piteously,«and wrestle in prayer. And then the
deeps would be released and they would burst forth
without restraint—without even knowing what they
were saying or doing—in a glowing rush of joy and
thanksgiving. And men would clap their hands and
laugh and shout and stamp with joy.
And while one was praying, another exhorting,
another testifying his experiences, another singing his
soul out, there was apparent confusion. Yet there
were no antagonisms ; no cross-purposes. Discords
were blended in a marvellous harmony. And the
d o m inant note was always joy—the exceeding joy
which produces and is produced by love. Men left
the meetings feeling they could love everybody.
Evan Roberts had said from the first that his belief
was that the love of Christ was a powerful enough
magnet to draw the people, that he himself had
found a joy which was far beyond human expression
and that he wanted men to receive what he had found.
And now indeed they had found it. At the same time
he saw that the revival could not continue at this
high pitch of fervour. The time must come when it
would subside again. He exhorted them, therefore,
to make the most of it while he was here.
While it was at its height it was seen by Mr. W. T.
Stead, the famous publicist. He, too, saw that it
could not last. These seasons of spiritual exaltation
which we call revivals, he said, come like the wind and
vanish as mysteriously. But they are realities to
244
S P O N T A N E I T Y AT MEETINGS
thosewho experiencethem and permanently affect their
whole future lives. And he foretold that this revival in
the West would change, transform, inspire and glorify
the lives of multitudes who till then cared nothing for
their own peace or the welfare of their fellow-men.
It was a very real thing, he reported, a live thing
with a power and a grip which would get hold even
of spectators. It was not exactly dread that onlookers
felt, but awe. There was something in it from the
other world. You could not say whence it came or
whither it was going, but it lived and moved and
reached for men all the time. Men and women went
down in sobbing agony before one’s eyes as the In­
visible Hand clutched at their hearts. It was pretty
grim. One shuddered. Those who were afraid of
strong emotions had better keep away.
The spontaneity of the whole proceedings specially
struck Mr. Stead. Never was a religious movement
so little indebted to the guiding brain of its leaders.
It seemed to be going on its own. Another note he
made was that the Gospel was sung rather than
preached. Whole congregations singing as if they were
making melody in their hearts to God. And women
prayed, sang, testified and spoke as freely as men.
Then he observed that there was no inquiry room,
no penitent form. The wrestle with unbelief went
on in the midst of the people. All was intensely
dramatic—sometimes unspeakably tragic. Yet he
reported that the vast congregations were as soberly
sane, as orderly, and at least as reverent as any con­
gregation which sat beneath the dome of St. Paul’s.
A meeting would be aflame with a passionate religious
enthusiasm, but there would be absolutely nothing
wild, violent or hysterical, unless it were hysterical
for the labouring breast to heave with sobbing that
245
MASS MYSTICI SM
could not be suppressed, or the throat to choke with
emotion as a sense of the awful horror and shame of
a wasted life suddenly burst upon the soul. On all
sides there would be the solemn gladness of men and
women upon whose eyes had dawned the splendour of
a new day, the foretaste of whose glories they were en­
joying in the quickened sense of human fellowship and
a keen, glad zest added to their own lives. And all this
vast, quivering, throbbing, singing, praying, exultant
multitude was intensely conscious of the all-pervading
influence of some invisible reality—now for the first
time moving, palpable, though invisible in their midst.
As to results, employers said that the quality of the
work the miners were putting in had improved.
Waste was less, and men went to their daily toil with
a new spirit of gladness in their labour. And this
public self-consecration, this definite and decisive
avowal of a determination to put under their feet their
dead past of vice and sin and indifference and to reach
out towards a higher ideal of human existence was
going on everywhere in South Wales.
If in some cases the eventual results were not up to
expectation, if the subsequent lives of some have not
been up to the level attained in those exalted mo­
ments, the fault may not have been entirely their own.
We know that lovers do not remain at the level of
their most enraptured moments. In the first case, as
in the second, the fault may have been that men did
not know how to capture and safely embody the lofty
spirit of the moment. And it may be the task of
those who recognize the inestimable value of those few
precious moments to strive to recapture that spirit and
enshrine it securely so that it may be ever after avail­
able and like a magnet perpetually attract men to it.
246
CHAPTER VI
REVIEW
I
F
ROM India and Persia; from France, England
and Wales ; from among Hindus, Moslems
and Christians, we have drawn examples of
men and women of modern times who have enjoyed
the mystical experience. And the close agreement
between these modem mystics, and between them
and the mystics of ancient days, is remarkable. There
were also differences—and without such differences
there could be no unity—but the resemblance is the
most noteworthy feature. And the uniformity of
their testimony has great significance.
All these mystics living in such different countries,
and under such different traditions and conditions, had
similar experiences. All are notable for their un­
conquerable earnestness of purpose and crystal sin­
cerity of character. Many of them had to break their
way through crustations of conventional religion and
entanglements of religious traditions, and, harder still,
through the binding ties of family life and social
custom. And in so doing they had to suffer excruci­
ating agonies ; for by their very nature they were of a
loving, affectionate disposition, fearful of hurting any­
one— least of all their dearest. All, then, suffered far
beyond the ordinary experience of mankind. Yet
247
R E V I E W
they shrank from no sacrifice and flinched from no
suffering ; and, suffer as they did, the one character­
istic of all others which they displayed was unbounded
joy—joy of such tremendous power as to be un­
bearable. Let it last a moment longer and it would
be the death of them, was how some described the
intensity of the joy which they experienced. Joy so
overpowering that they would afterwards recoil from
even thinking of it.
And this celestial radiancy of joy, unendurable as
it had been at the time, had the after effect upon them
of sweeping aside the least remembrance of any suf­
fering, steadying their nerves, and bringing them the
sweetest serenity and peace. After all the striving,
all the suffering, all the tumult of joy there followed
for them that contentment in the depths which only
comes of completest satisfaction of every need, every
longing and every aspiration. They had passed from
a state of mere emotion into a state of profound peace
—that satisfying peace of the soul which comes of
finding their own souls in direct continuity with the
life of the universe. A serenity which nothing on
earth could ever ruffle was theirs for ever after.
Adamantine certitude also was theirs. A certitude
of the trustworthiness of the world. A man must
have something to hold on to and believe. And theirs
was the certitude that, however bad men may appear
to the eye, however much pain and evil there may be
in the world about them, at rock bottom men and
things are good—at the foundation of things is good­
ness—is a Power unceasingly overcoming the evil and
transforming it into good. That mysterious Power
which most men sense operating behind the ceaseless
activity they find inside themselves and in all around
them—that central yet all-pervasive Power which
248
PASS I ONATE ADORATI ON
holds all together in a coherent whole and gives it
direction—these mystics came to regard as no mere
impersonal force, but a highly Personal Person, or
super-Personality, with what in men would be termed
will and mind, and working with the whole might of
Its being for unsurpassable good.
And a world which could produce in these mystics
such joy, such serenity, and such certainty of its
goodness, all came to love with a passion of adoration
so intense that the devotion of a mother to her child,
the love of a lover for his beloved, of a mountaineer
for mountains, and of a naturalist for nature, give
only the faintest indication. They were all men and
women who naturally felt something in common be­
tween themselves and every other human being. Now
this sense of fellowship had quickened within them
to such a pitch of intensity that a hurt to any living
thing would set them quivering with pain, while the
joy of another would thrill them with delight. Their
heart had come to beat in closest sympathy with the
common heart-beat of the world. The sufferings
which they had endured had helped them to enter
into the sufferings of others : the untellable joy which
they had known to enter into their joys. Joy through
suffering had engendered in them the dearest love of
the world.
Then, from this love which they bore to the world
had sprung a yearning in them to communicate to all
others the joy which they had known. The happiness
of others is everywhere a deep concern of men. The
one thing a mother yearns for and strives for daily
is the happiness of her children. The ultimate aim
of a statesman is the happiness of his country. All
religious leaders are intent upon promoting the happi­
ness of their flocks. This concern for happiness in
249 r
MM.
R EV I E W
parents, statesmen, and pastors became in the mystics
a consuming passion. They had themselves experi­
enced such supreme happiness that to them it was
intolerable that one single human being should remain
who did not know it, too. They would have all share
it with them. Hence the desire which these mystics
showed to communicate to others the joy and peace
which they had known. They would have the whole
world beaming with delight. And for this to be they
would impart to others what they themselves had felt
in order that others also might be partakers with
them of the kingdom of heaven.
Yet they also felt an initial difficulty. Longing as
they were to communicate their experience they found
diffidence in speaking about it to a single other soul.
It was to them something too unutterably sacred to
be spoken of to any. All the mystics felt this holy
reticence. Its precious fragrance might be dissipated
by the utterance of a single word. To those who had
already known it there would be no need of any tell­
ing. By those who had known it not it would surely
be misunderstood. Why, therefore, say a word ?
Why not keep these deep things of the soul secret to
the soul ? It was only under the compelling urge of
bringing happiness to their fellows that, at enormous
cost to themselves, they broke through their reserve.
In all these points, then, in earnestness of purpose,
in yearning after perfection, in suffering, in subsequent
joy, in serenity of soul, in certitude of goodness, in
longing to communicate their joy, and in the feeling
of fellowship with all others, the mystics we have
studied resembled each other. They had all plumbed
the deeps of the soul. But they had never touched
bottom : they had found their souls unfathomable,
stretching down into the infinite depths of the Crea-
250
TRANSPORTED WI TH JOY
tive Spirit. But they had reached far enough to have
felt themselves at one accord with that Spirit. And
filled with It they had floated aloft to infinite heights.
Transported with joy they had soared to those pure
and sunlit realms of the Spirit which everywhere sur­
rounds us, though undreamed of by pedestrians of
ordinary life. And every one of them longed to open
the eyes of his fellows to the glories which might be
theirs. That which they had always known they had
in common with others they now knew to be a com­
mon divinity. And of this they would have everyone
be aware. They would have all know that a common
humanity was also a common divinity. All were chil­
dren of a Heavenly Father.
Yet with all these resemblances there are no less
remarkable differences between the mystics we have
noted. Some had visions, some heard voices, some
saw lights, some were borne on billows as in an ocean.
Some saw Christ, some the Virgin Mary, some the
goddess Kali, some the prophet Mahomed. Through
all these ways had come the joy and the serenity of
communion with the Spirit of the universe. But the
ways had been different.
So also had been the ways of training for the
mystical experience. Some had most carefully and
deliberately trained themselves for it and endured the
hardships of severest austerity. Others had had no
training whatever. And of those who had specially
trained themselves some had been on the yoga lines
of the Hindus and others on the orthodox lines of the
Roman Catholic Church.
In the ways of communicating this experience they
likewise differed, Ramakrishna remained in his
2«
R E V I E W
temple, but took infinite trouble to seek out a few, and
especially one, to whom he could impart his message.
And that one he trained for his purpose, and by per­
sonal endearment and actual bodily touch communi­
cated to him not merely his intellectual doctrine but
more particularly his very spirit. Keshub Chander
Sen proceeded on much more public lines. He formed
societies, he travelled all over India and as far as Eng­
land preaching his message. He formulated a New
Dispensation and would spread it over the whole
world. The Bab had yet another way. He let others
come to him, and then of those, he selected eighteen
and sent them forth to proclaim his advent as the
Messiah and to deliver his message. Ste Thérèse in
her secluded convent had no thought of making dis­
ciples or proclaiming any new message : she simply
prayed, and tried in all the little ways of a little life
to show little people how heaven might be reached by
the humblest. Another method, not recorded here
but common in India, is for the mystic to communi­
cate himself in absolute silence—to sit absorbed in
intense meditation and to radiate his very self out to
others who are attracted to him by his known saintly
life, by the tranquillity of his features and the nobility
of his bearing.
In their ideas on celibacy the mystics also differed.
To Ramakrishna women and wealth were the twin
roots of all evil—the enemies to be specially fought
against. And though he was forced by social custom
to marry, and had his wife living with him, no children
were bom of the marriage and apparently he pre­
served continence throughout, deliberately schooling
himself to abstain. Some Hindus think, indeed, that
in sexual intercourse they are expending energies
which should be rigidly preserved for only the highest
252
NEED POR I NTELLEC T
end. In the Roman Catholic Church, also, celibacy is
encouraged, and virginity is held up as an object of
adoration. Consequently, Ste Thérèse, like other nuns,
took the vow of celibacy. Among our examples Evan
Roberts, though he took no vows, was in fact unmar­
ried. On the other hand, the Bab was married and
had a son. Keshub Chander Sen was married and had
several children. And the authoress of The Golden
Fountain was not only married but stated explicitly
that there was nothing in the married state or any of
its functions to harm the highest life.
II
To these experiences of modern mystics we have
now to apply the results of modem thought. Dazzled
by the splendour of the vision which searchingly facing
reality brings him the mystic should withdraw himself
for a time from the too great radiance in order coolly
and clearly to think on the significance of what he has
seen and to interpret it aright. And here it is that
most of the mystics cited have failed. They have been
disposed to ignore the intellect. The accumulated
results of centuries of thought and scientific investiga­
tion have been neglected. Accordingly, they have
had but a meagre conception of the universe, and their
ideal of perfection has been hazy. Of the grandeur
and sublimity of the starry universe, as revealed by
recent astronomy, they have been as ignorant as the
ant is of the majesty of the Himalayan mountain on
which it is crawling. Of the exceeding minuteness of
the parts, and the intricate interplay of their relation­
ships, they had as little knowledge as the elephant has
of the eye of a midge. And their ideal of perfection
253
R E V I E W
has been as lacking in precision of outline and detail
as the shores of a distant land are to the mariner who
possesses no telescope.
True it is that the intellect alone could not have
taken these mystics to the heart of the universe. Feel­
ing was then necessary; for feeling can penetrate
deeper than thought. But use of the intellect, and
use of the fruits of the intellect as shown in the results
of science and philosophy, would have given them a
wider and deeper comprehension of the universe with
which they were striving more intimately to relate
themselves. Indians, undoubtedly, have a finer in­
tuition than Europeans. They pierce more surely to
the essential disposition. Yet Western science would
have in no way detracted from their experience, and
would indeed have widened their vision and enabled
them to five the life of the universe with a larger
understanding. Knowledge of the immensity of the
physical universe, of the ultra-microscopic minuteness
of its parts, and the exquisite delicacy of their adjust­
ments would only have increased their awe and won­
der at the Power which was ordering the mighty whole
and regulating every activity. And exercise in the
scientific habit of mind would only have been a help
to them in testing, sifting and discriminating among
their impressions and in leading them to a truer inter­
pretation of their visions and intuitions.
Use of the intellect and the results of thought might
also have helped them to clarify their conception of
that ideal perfection which they would like to have
before them. To prize what is most prize-worthy was
their desire. And for the determination of what really
is most prize-worthy the intellect is needed as well as
the heart. Human experience at its highest has to be
taken ; and then the mystic has to see far beyond it,
254
I N T E R D E P E N D E N C E OP THINGS
and with the intellect, frame in his mind in detail the
ideal at which he should aim.
The intellect would also have been an aid to these
mystics in getting into closer touch with the world of
ordinary men. They have convictions amounting to
absolute certitude. But those convictions would have
had more weight in public if they were seen to be
reasoned convictions. Mystics would carry men more
easily with them if man could see that they were using
their heads as freely and forcibly as they were using
their hearts.
And if these modem mystics have in this respect
been wanting may we be bold enough to try and supply
this deficiency ? Making use of the results of modem
science and philosophy to aid us in interpreting the
mystical experiences recorded in the previous chap­
ters, may we see how they would fit in with a modem
conception of the universe ?
The interconnectedness and interdependence of all
things in one coherent whole is the grand conclusion
in which science and philosophy agree. The universe
is not the haphazard congeries of independent units
it may appear to some. There is underlying unity.
The units are bound together in a whole. Not a single
minutest particle is or ever can be isolated from the
rest of the universe. Each atom, each star, each per­
son is connected with the whole and is required by the
whole. A mystic is, therefore, as much an indissoluble
part of the universe as everything and everybody else.
And he, like the rest, bears upon him the mark and
impress of the whole. He is made in the image of the
whole. He is as much a part of the universe as a cell
in my brain is part of me.
In this view, we might interpret the mystical experi­
ence as a vivid impression of the universe as a whole.
255
R E V I E W
In his experience the mystic has become aware of the
underlying unity of the Spirit which binds together
and animates the universe. The part has become
aware of the whole—of the inward essence of the whole.
Up to the moment of their supreme experience mystics
have often spoken of there being a “ wall ” in between
them and God. They have felt Him near but with
some barrier in between Him and them. But when
the experience came to them they have felt as if the
wall had suddenly fallen, the barrier been removed,
the veil rent asunder, and they and God had become
one. The mystic had become filled with the Spirit of
the universe—the part with the essence of the whole.
But how can we explain the fact that the mystical
experience does not come to all ? It comes only to
those who have most earnestly striven after the ideal
of highest perfection and have been ready to make any
sacrifice for it. But it does not come to all even of
these. There is an element of favour, of grace, in it.
May we explain it in this way ? We cannot suppose
that the Spirit of the universe is acting with uniform
pressure at every moment on every component part of
the universe. More likely is it that the Spirit is work­
ing, now with great intensity, then with less; here
upon this part, there upon that, just as the spirit of
me, I, am acting upon my brain cells with great inten­
sity now while I am thinking out what I shall write on
this page, and then with hardly any pressure while I
shall be asleep in the night; and here, upon the cells
of my brain, and in an hour’s time there, upon the cells
of my muscles as I put my legs into action to go for a
walk. And supposing a particularly aspiring cell of
my brain had the ambition to know me, and strove
and struggled to become aware of me—of that mighty
being with whom it could feel it was intimately con-
256
A W A RE N E S S OF THE SPIRIT
nected. And suppose that on one rare occasion, just
as the cell was striving hardest to know me, it so hap­
pened that I was trying to express myself through it
in writing a page of this book, then the efforts of the
cell and the efforts of myself would coincide ; the cell
would find a tremendous rush of my spirit bearing in
upon i t : it would wellnigh collapse under the terrific
strain, but it would have had the satisfaction of having
attained its heart’s desire of becoming aware of that
power—of me—who had given it life and continually
sustained it. And that certain cells of my body actu­
ally do have an impression of me imprinted on them is
proved by the existence of millions of germ cells in my
body, any one of which is capable of reproducing in
my offspring every characteristic of me, from my fun­
damental disposition down to the colour of my eyes.
The cells of my body do bear the impress of me. We
can understand, therefore, how a man may bear the
impress of the universe out of which he was bom and
of which he never ceases to be a component part; and
how the mystics in their supreme experience are simply
becoming aware of the Spirit of the universe as a germ
cell, or a brain cell, in my body might become aware of
me.
The justification for considering the great mystic to
represent the highest type of man here comes into
view. He has developed something more than the
ordinary consciousness. He has become most vividly
aware of and most intimately in touch with the Central
Spirit of the universe— aligned himself with the Cen­
tral Line—and been lifted up to a higher plane of be­
ing. Moreover, while science and philosophy coldly
assure us of the coherence and interdependence and
interconnectedness of things in one whole, the mystic
actually feds that underlying unity, and feels it to an
257
R E V I E W
intense degree. No one like he has such a deep sense
of fellowship with the whole universe, with every
living thing, with every human being.
Yet even the mystic’s sense of community might be
enriched, if to his wonderful experience he could add
an appreciation of the world now revealed by science
—of the astronomical immensities of the universe, of
the innumerable unseen influences to which every
creature is subjected, and of the marvellous variety of
life and of the worlds within worlds in which his own
life is set. So let us briefly recount these.
That the sun to which our planet is attached is only
one out of other stars so numerous that if each were
represented by a grain of sand, all England would have
to be covered with sand to a depth of some hundreds
of feet to contain them, is a statement which has be­
come familiar to us through the writings of Jeans.
And we also learn that they are so distant, that light
from the nearest of them, travelling at the rate of
186,000 miles a second, takes 4£ years to reach this
earth, and light from the farthest 140 million years.
This much we know about the immensity of the uni­
verse. And science now tells us marvels concerning
the invisible influences continually acting upon us—
of X-rays, gamma-rays, ultra-gamma-rays, cosmic
rays, long electric-rays, electro-magnetic and lumin­
ous radiations, and mechanical radiations such as
sounds and ultra-sounds. Ultra-violet and infra-red
photography widens our vision of the world about us.
And, nowadays, we are all aware of how we are being
impinged upon by radio music and radio propaganda
which, when we are provided with the requisite instru­
ment to capture it, affects our minds and souls.
Naturalists have ascertained that certain animals
and insects have wider powers of sensing their environ-
258
V A R I E T Y OP LIFE
meat than men possess. Some can see further, others
hear more acutely, others smell more sensitively. A
bat may see little, but with its remarkable ears it
has a most delicate sense of hearing. The hawk’s-eye
detects its prey with an accuracy impossible to men.
The dog can sense smells, and the antennae of butter­
flies can detect vibrations which to us are quite
undetectable.
The variety of life on this planet is also yearly
becoming better known— monsters of the deep and
bacteria hardly visible through the m ost powerful
microscopes ; grotesque Crustacea and exquisite birds-
of-paradise ; repulsive creatures of the slime and
gorgeous butterflies of the tropical forest.
And the worlds these creatures live in with their
varying organs of sense are equally various. The
world of the sightless fish in the lightless deeps of
the ocean is vastly different from the world of the
lammergeyer soaring over glittering Himalayan peaks.
The world of the mole burrowing blindly in the earth
differs as radically from the world of the bee sucking
honey from the sunlit flowers, as the world of a
parasitic tick clinging to an antelope differs from
the world of the antelope bounding joyously over the
far-stretching plain.
Yet there is a common world in which all these
lesser worlds are intimately, intricately and inex­
tricably included. And if the mystic could add to
his mystical experience what he would gain from a
contemplation of these immensities, of these delicate,
invisible influences, of this variety of life, of these
different worlds within worlds, and of the inter­
dependence of all these in one vibrating whole, even
his vision might be widened and his sense of com­
munity deepened. And he might contemplate the
259
R E V I E W
possibility, or the probability, that, in view of the
interdependence of things, the manifold life of this
planet may be but an epitome of a far larger life
which may all the time be existing in the universe at
large, just as a germ-cell in my body is an epitome
of the larger life of myself—that this may not be
the only inhabited planet in a universe which consists
of stars as numerous as the grains of sand in the
Sahara desert—that scattered over this unimaginably
vast universe may be thousands of other planets
inhabited by beings as different from us in outward
form as men are from humming-birds but just as
intelligent as we are—that on a few of these in­
habited planets may be beings who in a far higher
degree manifest the Creative Spirit which animates,
drives and directs the whole universe—that on one
planet one of these highest beings may in one part
of his life be so exactly attuned to the main pulse
of the universe that he would be able to make mani­
fest and interpret the inmost meaning of the Spirit
which informs it, and be, therefore, that Spirit’s most
perfect embodiment—and that, in such a case, this
Master Mystic of the Universe might, through his
mastery over the vibrations of the universe, be able
to exert a commanding influence over life as a whole,
and communicate to all creatures, according to their
capacity, something of his own spirit and so set the
tone, impart the temper, and give the direction to
the great common world of all lesser worlds and of
every variety of life throughout the entire universe.
9
or the probability—perhaps even the certainty—that
somewhere in the immensities of the universe the
Creative Spirit which informs it is manifested far more
fully than It has yet been manifested here, and that
260
DELI GHT IN THE UNI VERS E
such manifestations may be ceaselessly influencing the
development of life on this planet, just as light and
heat from the distant sun affects the growth of plants,
his comprehension of the world which gave him birth
might be immeasurably extended. And with that
expanding comprehension might go a corresponding in­
crease in his spiritual stature. The mystic might be the
bigger man for contemplating the universe as a whole.
And with the awe and wonder which would neces­
sarily follow the contemplation of such immensities,
such rich variety of life, and such glittering possi­
bilities, there would with equal necessity go delight.
And this new delight would only increase that joy
whichthe mystical experience had alreadybroughthim.
Now that which brings a man delight he loves.
And in the measure of the joy it brings is his love.
A world which can produce in a man such rapture
of enjoyment as the mystic feels, he loves with an
intensity proportionate to his enjoyment. And love
proves itself in deeds—and in deeds proportionate
to his love. Hence the devoted activity of the great
mystics. They have loved their fellow men— they
have loved the whole world—with a tenderness and
a depth unknown to ordinary men. And that is why
for long years and centuries afterwards they have
been loved by mankind to a point of adoration such
as man gives to no other of his heroes.
And if the great mystics by the test of long cen­
turies of struggle with other types have come, to
be recognized as the highest type of humanity yet
reached, they may be accepted as forerunners of that
higher level of existence which the onward sweep of
the evolutionary process indicates must lie before the
261
R E V I E W
race. They may be looked upon as the feelers, or
tentacles, sent out by the human species towards that
higher plane of life. Therefore, by applying the re­
sults of modem science and philosophic thought to
their experience we may gain some idea of what is
the aim of the world-process—what is the ideal of
perfection towards which we should perpetually strive.
So judging, the aim in the world-process would
seem to be a state of living more intense and more
ecstatic than even the joy of lovers can give us an
inkling, and bringing a serenity and assurance which
can only come of completest satisfaction of every
need of body, mind and spirit. Yet it would be no
condition of blissful ease and unending rest: it would
be a stupendous living at lightning velocity ; and the
love no accommodating amiability, but a God-force,
elemental and invincible, as issuing straight from the
mighty harmonizing principle of the universe.
The goodness to be aimed at would be something
far more than goodness understood as mere rectitude
—as mere correctness of behaviour. Not men of stiff
upright character, unimpeachably virtuous and primly
wise would men of the higher species be, but so brim­
ming over with the divinest happiness that it would
be impossible for them to be anything else but good ;
and not an unctuous correctitude such as would repel
men would be theirs, but a smiling loveliness which
would win them.
And in this higher state all would not be alike.
No two would be alike. All would be different. This
is the law of the universe. And another law is that
the greater is the difference of the parts the deeper
is the unity of the whole. Differences, therefore,
would be welcomed, and opposition regarded as a
stimulus and as serving to bring out contrasts, And
262
GRA D A T I O N
because of this importance of differentiation the in­
dividuality of the individual would be not only re­
spected but reverenced. Freedom for the individual
would be the watchword. On the other hand, though
the individual might stoutly maintain his individuality
and strenuously resist any encroachment on his free­
dom, he would devote himself with still more vehem­
ence to working out the good of the various wholes to
which he belonged—his family, his town, his business,
his country, mankind—each whole in its turn being
an individual in a still larger whole, till all are in­
cluded in the only true whole—the entire universe.
Nor would there be equality. For neither is
equality, any more than uniformity, a fundamental
characteristic of the universe. The universe is not
level. It is made up of peaks and declivities. The
ocean has its lowest depth and the land its highest
height. And living things are graded downward till
they are scarcely distinguishable from chemical com­
pounds, and upwards to the mystics we have been
studying. Gradation is the order. Higher and lower.
The lower a necessity for the higher—an absolutely
necessary prerequisite. But the higher being likewise
necessary to give lift to the lower. The two would
be interdependent. So there would be gradation up­
ward to the few—and to the one. And the one and
the few would be perpetually changing—giving place
to successors in unending rhythm.
For the Creative Spirit, though it is working in
and on all men at all times, is not working always at
uniform pressure. It is not working so energetically
in a man when he is asleep as when he is awake, or
when he is lethargic as when he is at concert pitch.
And the Creative Spirit is evidently manifested in a
higher degree in some of Its creatures than in others
263
R E V I E W
men than in snails, in the mystic than in the
murderer, and in some mystics more than in others,
and in the highest mystics more at some times than
at others.
Moreover, with gradation there would be waxing
and waning. The highest would not always remain
at the height of his capacity. Climbers do not re­
main on the summit of a mountain. A singer does not
remain singing his highest note. There would be de­
clination as well as elevation. There would be periods
of absolute repose as well as of intensest activity.
In keeping with the wave-like texture of the uni­
verse we may expect rhythmic motions—culminations
and depressions. At the culminations we may expect
an intoxicating ecstasy of delight, and in the trough
a divine tranquillity. But all will be pulsing with
the Creative Spirit of the universe. All will be sur­
rounded and permeated by that spiritual atmosphere
which is engendered by the Creative Spirit as we are
surrounded and permeated by the air we breathe.
And every activity will derive its significance from the
highest culmination as every activity of a growing
plant derives its significance from its culmination in
the flower.
Ill
Such, as far as we may judge, would be the highest
state of being at which the evolutionary process is
aiming—such the ideal of perfection towards which
we should strive. And the methods and results
of modern science and philosophy have now to be
applied to other questions arising from the mystical
experiences we have been studying.
Mystics, especially Hindus, make use of such ex­
pressions as losing themselves in God as a drop of
264
PRESERVI NG I N D I V I D U A L I T Y
rain in the ooean. In the mystical experience are
mystics being absorbed in the Spirit of the universe,
or are they absorbing the Spirit into themselves ?
At times it seems as if they utterly abandoned them­
selves, got rid of the self, and deliberately allowed
themselves to sink into God. On the other hand,
they may be looked upon as opening themselves out
to the in-pouring of the Holy Spirit of God. In all
cases they are overwhelmed by a Power outside them­
selves—if also within them—and infinitely greater.
But, while a few are content literally to lose them­
selves—lose their lives—in this absorption in the
Spirit, others, including even Ramakrishna, wished to
retain their individuality in order to be able to carry
on the work of God in the world.
And this latter attitude is more suited to the tem­
perament of most Westerners. The ordinary Euro­
pean or American hates losing his individuality. He
fights hard to retain it and to resist encroachments
on it. To him the idea of absorbing the Spirit of
the universe into himself would be more congenial
than the idea of being merged in it and losing his
identity as a drop of water is lost in the ocean.
Perhaps a truer view to take of the mystical ex­
perience is that suggested by Father Elwin, when he
says that it would be better to say that the mystic
was enthralled rather than absorbed by God. It is a
good suggestion. A mystic may be enthralled by
the spirit of the universe and yet retain his own
individuality. He may be possessed by the Spirit
and yet be himself. Undoubtedly, for the time being,
while he is actually enjoying the mystical experience,
he is overwhelmed by the Spirit. He is entirely over­
powered ; and resistance or self-assertion are then
wholly out of the question. Yet he does not remain
265 s
M.M.
R E V I E W
overpowered. He recovers himself. And on recovery
he finds he is a far greater self than before he was
enthralled by the Spirit.
The authoress of The Golden Fountain prided herself
on abandoning herself, like all great lovers, to her
love. Yet even she, after her experience, says that
the whole of space could scarcely be large enough
to hold her : she needed all of i t : she welcomed its
immensity. “ My consciousness is alight with a new
fiery energy of life ; ” she writes, “ it feels to expend
to an infinite distance beyond my body, and yet
remain connected with my body.” Again, she writes :
“ I felt within me an immense, incomprehensible
capacity for love, and the whole world with all its con­
tents seemed totally, even absurdly, inadequate to
satisfy the great capacity.”
Henri Frederic Amiel says: “ There is but one thing
needful—to possess God.” He does not say to be
absorbed in God but to possess Him. And he speaks
of times “ in which one seems to carry the world
in one’s breast, to touch the stars, to possess the
infinite . . . moments of irresistible intuition in which
a man feels himself great like the universe and calm
like a god . . . the whole creation is then submitted
to our gaze, lives in our breast, and accomplishes in
us its eternal work.”
And the great living Islamic poet and philosopher,
Iqbal, declares quite definitely and emphatically
against the idea of absorption into God. “ He who
comes nearest to God is the completest person,” he
says, but adds: “ Not that he is finally absorbed in
God. On the contrary, he absorbs God into himself.”
We may not be one with God, but we may be at
one accord with God. We may be filled with the
Holy Ghost.
266
G UI DA N C E BY SPIRIT
Connected with this is the question whether God
is “ wholly other ” than ourselves, as some maintain
— Karl Barth, notably. And here also the intellect
is needed. To some Indian mystics, the God whom
they have experienced is most certainly not wholly
other : he is not even other than themselves. They
believe that in their highest experiences they are God.
In answer to the question: “ Who am I ? ” they
will reply: “ I am Brahma, the supreme Spirit.”
And, just as a germ-cell in me which contains within
it my main characteristics might in a sense consider
itself as me, so there is nothing unreasonable in the
mystic, when he is feeling himself peculiarly filled
with the Spirit of the universe, believing himself in
a sense to stand for God, as he is then conscious of
containing within himself the main characteristics of
God. In any case, he would be justified in maintain­
ing that God is not “ wholly other ” than himself.
Guidance by the Spirit is another question demand­
ing earnest consideration. Some mystics, like Keshub
Chander Sen and Evan Roberts, have placed them­
selves unreservedly in the hands of the Spirit, awaited
Its commands and implicitly obeyed them. The
doubt does, however, arise whether such abandon­
ment of the mystic’s own will and intelligence is
completely wise. He has to do the Will of G od:
that is recognized. But many will think that in
order to find out what actually is the Will of God,
every faculty with which the Creator has endowed
him should be utilized—and to the full. Guidance
has to be intelligently sought, they will say. It is
not as plain as a sign-post.
A statesman representing his country in a crisis
wishes to be guided by his country’s spirit. He
wishes to do the will of his country. It is to do it
267
R EV I E W
that he has been placed in the position he holds.
But before he acts he uses all his intelligence and,
better still, his powers of intuition, to acquaint him­
self thoroughly with it. It would seem to be the
same in regard to guidance by the Spirit of the
universe. It is not a matter of simply abandoning
our wills and submitting our limp selves to the guid­
ance of the Spirit. We have to do more than that.
We have to learn to know that Spirit intimately and
to use our intelligence most diligently in order to
interpret It aright before we can be sure that we
are acting in accordance with It. We have to make
a sustained effort of the intellect to determine the
precise direction in which the Spirit would desire us
to go. So, at least, it seems to some of us.
A kindred question is that of submission to the will
of God—surrendering our own wills to the will of
God. In a sense we cannot help doing the will of
God. If that Power behind and working through
the whole creative process has any will at ah, our
puny opposition to it would be as futile as the opposi­
tion of a minnow to the Ganges in flood. We cannot
help being swept along by it. On the other hand,
we are endowed with certain powers of choice. Our
whole lives are spent in making choices between
myriads of alternatives. And among these numerous
alternatives we may use all our intelligence and our .
own experience and the experience of others to deter­
mine which is most nearly in line with the main
stream of the creative advance.
The mystic naturally wishes to align himself with
the central line of the main impetus, impulse, stream,
fountain jet—whatever it may be called—of the world
process. And to be certain of that he has to assure
himself of what the main impetus is making to-
268
S E L F- EFFORT
wards. That, we have already seen to be a higher
perfection—a completer harmony. But, even though
the Creative Spirit of the universe is working in the
mystic and in everyone and everything about Him
at every hour and every minute of the day, and is
working towards this ultimate perfection and har­
mony, the mystic has still to use his utmost intelli­
gence to choose from among the manifold alternatives
continually presenting themselves before him the one
which will most surely conduce to that perfection.
He may submit his will to the will of God. He
cannot help it. He has to. But it is quite clearly
the will of God that he should use every faculty
with which he is endowed. He will not, therefore,
abrogate his reason. He will use his intelligence to
the full. He will be guided by the Spirit; but while
he takes the main direction given by that Spirit he
will, in the separate steps he takes, be guided by
reason. A man may receive the general impulsion to
proceed to a sacred city beyond the mountains, and
the whole way thither he may act upon this general
impulsion and in accordance with the Spirit; but he
will not expect detailed guidance in every single step
he takes towards his goal: he will exercise his own
intelligence and judgment as to the manner in which
he shall overcome each obstacle as it presents itself
and as to the particular path he shall follow from
day to day. At one time it may be wiser to take
a longer way round on the level, at another time to
take a shorter cut over a spur. On each occasion he
must use his intelligence and past experience to decide.
The question of celibacy, virginity, chastity is an­
other problem which has to be examined in the light
209
R E V I E W
of what science has to tell us about the creative pro­
cess. By some it is considered to be an essential for
the higher spiritual life. Virginity is extolled. Vows
of celibacy are taken. But, as has already been noted,
many of the mystics whose experiences are here re­
corded were married, and the fact of being married
did not prevent them from having the mystical ex­
perience or from leading a saintly life. And one of
them, the authoress of The Golden Fountain, herself
a married woman, has stated quite definitely her con­
viction that there is nothing spiritually objectionable
in the married state. After showing how all affections
go up to and are enclosed in the love of God she
says : “ In this is included, in a most deep and
mysterious fashion, marriage-love in all its aspects.
In every way it can become a sacrament: there is
nothing in it which is not holy, in no way does the
marriage bond of the body separate the spirit from
acceptableness to God.” She came to regard mar­
riage as the prototype in this physical world of the
spiritual union with God in the spiritual world. She
reminded herself that this relationship between men
and women was His thought and His plan and not
ours, and that our part was only to keep the bond
of it pure and clean and sweet. This bond of earthly
marriage is of the flesh and can be kept by the
body and yet the heart, mind, and soul can all the
time remain in lovely, perfect charity. This was her
view.
And it is strongly supported by modem science,
which is directly opposed to the old view that there
is something inherently shameful in the bodily con­
nection of man and woman. Modem science holds,
on the contrary, that such union is both bodily
beneficial and spiritually elevating—and to both the
270
S E X - A C T I V I T Y
woman and the man. This opinion and the grounds
for holding it have been amply set forth by Douglas
White, a practising medical man, in his Modern Light
on Sex and Marriage. He is in favour of abstinence
as a preliminary to obtaining in the end the prize of
an all-embracing love, both physical and spiritual.
But he places no value on abstinence as a thing in
itself, and says, indeed, that continuous suppression
of normal sexual activity constitutes a severe strain
on a normally sexed man, and that the denial of the
maternal and conjugal satisfaction is a still more
severe loss to a normal woman. Further, he regards
sex-activity as the most potent moving force in per­
sonal life and what should be its main elevating,
refining, and beautifying influence. It ought, he says,
to intensify spiritual love. The corporeal intimacy
should be the sensible manifestation of the spiritual
relation, body, mind and spirit all fitting into each
other with a glow of satisfaction. For a true and
energizing love for the mate alters and sweetens the
whole outlook on life, spreads like a ripple in ever-
widening circles of friends, relations and acquain­
tances, and diffuses itself further still in a general
good-will to all mankind. Frankly sexual though the
love of man for woman and woman for man is, there
is nothing unseemly in its physical expression, nor is
it in any sense necessarily tainted with evil. It is,
he holds, the most beautifully spiritual thing the
world has ever seen—radiating its beauty even to
those who are not experiencing it. The spiritual
irradiates the physiological function, and the physio­
logical intensifies the spiritual. Each interprets and
satisfies the aspirations of the other. And each of
the partners in a well-suited marriage calls into life
what is fine and beautiful in the other, and in great
271
R E V I E W
moments comes into touch with that great Love
which lives at the centre of the universe. For these
reasons, Dr. White considers marriage as the most
profound sacrament of life. It should be regarded
with an increasing sense of sanctity.
Similar—even more pronounced—views are held by
Havelock Ellis as a result of a life-long study of this
problem. He allows that in rare and gifted natures
transformed sexual energy becomes of supreme value
for its own sake without ever attaining its normal
physical outlet. But he says that in the effort to
achieve complete abstinence we are abusing a great
source of beneficent energy. For the sexual activities
of the organism constitute a mighty source of energy
which we can never altogether repress, though by
wise guidance we may render it an aid not only to
personal development and well-being but to the moral
betterment of the world.
“ It is passion, more passion and fuller, that we
need,” he says. “ The moralist who bans passion
is not of our time. . . . It is more passion that we need
if we are to undo the work of Hate, if we are to add
to the gaiety and splendour of life, to the sum of human
achievement, to the aspiration of human ecstasy.”
Through harmonious sex-relationship he believes
that a deeper spiritual unity may be reached than
can possibly be derived from continence in or out of
marriage. Sexual activity may be the stimulus and
liberator of our finest and most exalted activities.
For it fortifies and enlarges the whole personality.
And for Havelock Ellis, as for Douglas White, the
love of man and woman for one another is something
unspeakably holy.
When, therefore, we combine the conclusions of
modem science with the experiences of the mystics
272
S A N C T I T Y OF MA R R I A G E - LO V E
we see no actual necessity for the state of celibacy.
There may be rare individuals to whom it may be
preferable. But married persons as well as celibates
can attain the highest spiritual condition. In any
case, marriage is not to be decried. Bather is it to be
lauded. There is no actual need for men to seclude
themselves in monasteries or women in convents.
So it seems as if the glory of the holy state of
matrimony will come into its own, and be regarded no
longer as a drag and hindrance to a man or woman’s
spiritual development, but as a sweetening and up­
lifting power. The procreative urge will not be looked
on as coming from the Devil but from God. It will
be worshipped as divine. Woman will not be thought
of as the temptress and beguiler to evil but as the
wondrous evoker of good, and as necessary to the
full development of man as he is to hers. Not vir­
ginity, but matrimony will be the fit object of worship,
though the wedded state will be treated with in­
creasing solemnity and entered on with no less fear
and trembling than gladness and rejoicing. At no
time in their lives more than in their infinitely deli­
cate approach to each other and in their final choice,
will the man and the woman need a surer intuition,
a finer wisdom and a more sustained courage. Nor
will the exercise of these qualities be permitted to
lapse when the wedding is consummated. Perhaps
then, even more than ever before, they may be re­
quired, if, as in the old story books, the pair are
“ to five happy ever after,” and if they are to attain
that highest happiness of all which should be their
aim. Married love is the most natural way, and it
may prove the best way of reaching the highest
perfection. By the long-continued loving of one
another in the spirit of the universe, the man may
273
R E V I E W
evoke from the woman, and the woman from the
man, the highest capacities of each.
IV
One last subject remains for discussion—and that
is of the greatest importance. Joy and gladness,
happiness to the point of ecstasy, goodness to the
point of saintliness have so filled these pages that it
is time to take count of the sorrow, the evil of all
kinds—the downright wickedness and awful brutality,
bestiality, and cruelty there is in the world. These
the mystics may seem to ignore, or run away from
into the temple or the cloister or the jungle. But
ordinary people have to face the realities of life. The
pains and troubles and wickednesses of ourselves and
our fellows cannot be ignored. They are right on top
of us and everywhere around us. At any moment
death may remove our dearest. Sickness may come
upon us without a warning. An accident may kill
or cripple us when in the full stride of life. Our
daily newspaper is full of murders, robberies, crimes
of every kind, desertions and adulteries ; of strikes
in one country, political assassinations in another,
civil war in a third, and actual or threatening war
always in some part of the w orld; and of awful
natural calamities, an earthquake in Japan, a famine
in India, floods in China, and everywhere the misery
of men and women just on the edge of starvation,
hopelessly seeking employment and the wherewithal
to keep themselves and their families alive.
If we face such stark realities as these straight
before our eyes, how is it possible to go into ecstasies
of delight like the mystics, or to believe that the world
is governed for good ? it will be asked.
274
R E D E E M I N G R O W E R
To this the mystic would reply that the evil is
there sure enough—and it is not easy to see how
there could be good if there were no evil. But
what he feels with such intensity of conviction is the
existence of a Power at work in himself and in the
world redeeming the evil, actually transforming it
into good and using it as the very means to achieve
the better.
The daily newspaper is concerned more with the
abnormal than with the normal. The normal has
no “ news value.” It is not worth reporting day by
day that in respect to the greater number of coun­
tries there are no earthquakes, or famines or floods.
The normal honesty, civility and goodness of people
the newspaper-reader is not concerned to read about.
Yet even in the daily paper, alongside the descriptions
of horrors and calamities, there also appear quite as
frequently, stories of heroisms and endurances, and
of excellence achieved in many fields of human en­
deavour in sport, in art, in science, in religion. And
in notices summing up the life of a man or a woman
in its entirety it is the good and not the evil in that
life that is primarily insisted on. Afterwards will
come the “ realist ” writer who will tell us that the
person so be-praised was no stained-glass window
saint but could lose his temper, have his animosities,
indulge his prejudices, and in general be as wicked as
his neighbours. But this fashion of belittlement is
already wearing thin. True enough, Queen Victoria
did have her prejudices, and even George Washington,
notwithstanding the legend, may have told a he. Yet
in spite of these blemishes there is the plain fact that
the good in most heroes not so much outweighed the
ill as waged a life-long struggle against it and usually
came out victorious in the end.
275
R E V I E W
The world is not a perfect w orld: it is a world
in process of perfecting itself. No man is perfect:
all men are in the act of improving themselves. Some
lamentably fa il; others miraculously succeed. The
mystic would not contend that there is no evil in
the world. But if he be asked to face reality, he
would reply that he has faced it and found that
the profoundest reality in life is the existence of
this drive to perfection of which he has become so
acutely aware. As he looks out on the world about
him he sees suffering and wickedness, certainly ; but
he sees far more of quiet, unreported, unsuspected,
yet heroic struggles against adversity; he sees the
sublime patience and invincible good cheer of that
most numerous class in every country, the humble
workers on the soil; he sees poets, painters, musicians
agonizingly struggling against every discouragement
to give expression to the deepest things of the soul.
Above all, he sees everywhere about him, not only
among human beings but among birds, animals and
even insects, that most purely good thing in life—
the unselfish love of a mother for her offspring. And
seeing these things with that clearness of vision so
characteristic of mystics, and with their faculty of
discriminating between the essential and the un­
essential, he recognizes that the good in the world
about him is of far deeper significance than the more
obvious evil. He sees the universe actuated by a
love akin to the love of a genius for his work—a
universe which is only the visible and tangible aspect
of the spirit of mother-love. The evil, however great,
is, in the view of the mystic, the transient. In com­
parison with that ultimate perfection towards which
the world-process is driving, it is of utter insignificance.
And in this view he would have the support of
276
H A P P I N E S S O P W I L D L I F E
science. For science tells us how life as we see it
to-day on this planet has evolved from a tiny pri­
mordial germ which came into being roughly about a
thousand million years ago. At that time the land
surface was as bare as the most barren desert and
the waters were devoid of any life whatever. Now it
may have its suffering and its evil, but this planet
is obviously a better place than it was then. Or,
take only the last million of those one thousand
million years— take only the single million years since
man appeared: the planet to-day, in spite of the
wars and jealousies and strifes and general wickedness
of man, is very clearly a better place than it was at
the first appearance of man. And though amongst
those who have never lived in a great forest and
seen what jungle life really is there is an idea that
wild animals pass their whole life in terror and that
cruelty reigns supreme, naturalists who have studied
life in the forest tell us that it is a vigorous, happy
life, that birds and animals, while always aware of
danger, are not so much terrorized by it as kept ever
alert and at concert pitch of efficiency, and that
wild animals do not kill out of sheer cruelty, but
from hunger. Happiness is the outstanding feature of
wild life in the jungle. And we in civilization can
confirm this for ourselves by watching the birds and
animals in the woods and fields about us. Compared
with the sluggish domesticated animals protected from
every danger, wild animals and birds kept by the
keen struggle for existence at the top of their capacity,
are at their fittest and alertest and obviously enjoying
life. Death when it comes, comes swiftly. Alive
they are happy. And when besides this joy in life
among the birds and animals we see the beauty of
plant and tree life continually renewed year after
277
R E V I E W
year, it is in the highest degree reasonable to suppose
that the activity about us is a beneficent activity—
that there is a power for good at work in the world.
And if it be objected that the existence of even
one act of cruelty, one piece of suffering, one evil
deed is a blemish on this Power showing that it is
either not completely good or not completely power­
ful, the reply would be that the universe is not a
static universe on a dead level which, because of its
levelness, could be neither good nor b a d ; it is a
dynamic universe—a dynamic process making for
higher and higher perfection, and displaying a con­
stant struggle of the good with the bad, and of the
better with the good. Goodness lies in the struggle.
Without the struggle there could be no goodness.
The existence of the evident evil in the world need
deter no one from believing that the world is ordered
for good, or from having faith in the essential good­
ness of things. It should only spur men on to over­
come it. So, the sight of evil is a goad to the mystic.
It incites him to his best. It is intolerable to him
that it should exist. And by his efforts he does
actually succeed in transforming evil into good.
Thus there are grounds for the mystic’s faith that
the world is ordered for good and that a drive towards
perfection rims through the world-process. Progress
is made. Yet it is also clear to the mystic that that
progress has to be achieved: it does not come of
itself without effort on the part of the individual.
Men are the instruments and agents through whom
the progress is brought about. The drive to per­
fection is operating through each and all. And there
278
A N A M E L I O R A T I N G P O W E R
is a mighty Will and Mind behind that drive which
will ensure that perfection after perfection will in
the end be achieved. Yet experience shows us that
within limits liberty is left to the individual to avail
himself little or much of this Power for good which
is working in and around him. Running through
every country—through France or Italy or Russia or
India—is this urge to better the country. All French­
men or Italians feel their country expecting of them
to do their best to better France or Italy. But some
are better agents than others for the purpose. Some,
like Mussolini or Briand, feel the urge with an in­
tensity which drives them forward through every
obstacle and opposition; and they achieve much.
To others it is but a faint inclination : they make
little effort to respond even to that, and they achieve
but little. So also is it with regard to the world-urge.
The world will go forward. Progress will be made.
Perfection will be achieved. But not by all—not by
sluggards. Sluggards—whether nations or individual
men and women—will be dropped out, just as slugs
have been left behind. Progress will only be made
by those who brace themselves for effort, who open
themselves to the full inflow of the drive to per­
fection, and who use their intellects at their brightest
to visualize that ultimate perfection towards which
the world-process is driving, and then determine with
the whole of their wills to make bad good and good
perfect—first in themselves and then in the world.
The truth of these things we may test for ourselves.
If we can from time to time of set purpose withdraw
from the busy rush of life, and in solitude deliberately
ponder on the ultimate significance of what science
reveals of the orderliness, the intelligibility, and the
279
R E V I E W
progressiveness of the universe; what astronomers
tell o f the mighty scale on which the universe is
bu ilt; what physicists say of the microscopic minute­
ness of the units of which it is constructed; what
biologists relate about the nicety of their adjustments
into a whole and the architectural intricacy of even
the lowliest living thing; what the evolutionist has
to record of the emergence of higher and higher types
through a thousand million years and of the variety
and adaptability of manifold species ; what anthro­
pologists observe of the development of man from
ape-like beings in merely family groups to cultured
men in great civilized nations ; what sociologists note
of the transmutation into good of the horrible evils
of war, pestilence and fam ine; what we ourselves
can observe of the all-pervading beauty of the world,
the glory and the splendour of a sunset, the tran­
quillity of starlight, the freshness and the radiancy of
dawn, the purity of rain-washed skies, the majesty
of snow-clad mountains, the vastness of the ocean,
and the tender loveliness of flowers ; and, lastly, what
we know of those highest products of the evolutionary
process on this planet, the abounding happiness of
wild life, the ecstasy of perfect marriage, the devotion
of maternal love, the gentleness of Buddha, the pro­
fundity of Plato, the wisdom of Confucius and the
utter holiness of Jesus— if we can think these things
out right through to their final implication, and
ponder again and again on what these ascertained
and observable facts in the end imply—if we can thus
face real realities, not confusing the solid, palpable,
tangible, surface actualities with the underlying real,
but sensitively divining the truly real shining through
the superficial actual, as a man’s soul shines through
his outward features, and divining also the Eternal
280
D O M I N A T I N G P E R S O N A L P O W E R
which lies beyond yet in the temporal—if we can
thus penetrate to the true heart of things, can we not
see a Something before which we are only able to
bow in reverential adoration ? For what else can it
all ultimately imply than the existence at the base
of things of a Mind, a Spirit, a Personality, or a more
than Personality, with the exactitude of a mathe­
matician, the imagination o f a poet, the sense of
beauty of an artist, the capacity for love of a mother,
the holiness of a saint, all combined in one, raised to
the highest pitch of perfection, and possessed of in­
vincible power, as the mystics contend ?
And may not this mysterious Power—this dominat­
ing personal Power—so tremendous yet so com-
pellingly attractive, be the motive power of that
all-encompassing, all-pervading, all-creative Activity
in which our lives are set ? And may not what this
Power is driving at be what the mystics unite in
describing as a mode of living so exalted, so in­
tense, so rapturous as to be endurable only for rare
moments by even the most spiritual and yet char­
acterized by all the surety, the serenity and the poise
of harmonized activities in perfect equilibrium ?
M.M. 281 T
CHAPTER VII
CONCLUSIONS
I
H
AVING now recounted various mystical ex­
periences and judged of them in the light
of modem science and of the ordinary
experiences of life what can we say as to their use
in the practical affairs of the world ? Of what good
is the mystical experience ? What can the mystic
do for those millions on the point of starvation, for
those other millions who have fruitlessly sought for
employment ? What good would this highly emo­
tional mysticism be to them ? And apart from these
extreme cases, what good would it be to the normal
man and woman engaged in the everyday work of
the world with its unending worries, disappointments,
sorrows and disillusions ? What to the clergy fight­
ing a forlorn hope against the materialism and soul­
withering indifference of the day ? Or to the poet
with precious things to say and striving to get heard
above the clamour and clatter of the street ? Or
to the statesman borne down by an accumulation of
the gravest possible issues ? Or to the soldier with
death and disaster immediately threatening ? Or to
the financier facing crisis upon crisis in a bewildering
complexity of economic entanglements ? Or to the
young wife who had staked all and found her marriage
282
P R A C T I C A L I T Y O P T H E S P I R I T U A L
a ghastly failure ? Or to the poor mother responsible
for rearing her children, keeping the home together
and making two very far-off ends meet ? Of what
good is this very sentimental mystical experience to
such as these ?
And what can it do for us practical-minded Euro­
peans and Americans who are so suspicious of the
dreamy and the emotional and who are perpetually
wanting to be doing things— to be seeing something
solid springing up before our eyes—building the big­
gest ships, erecting the highest buildings, constructing
the fastest motor-cars ; or, at least, to be promoting
tangible social and political reforms ?
To all such questions the mystic might reply that
what he has to communicate should be of obvious
value in practical life, for it was out of the midst of
life that he had himself obtained his experience. It
was no dream or illusion, he might say: it was an
actual personal, healthy, normal experience of proved
value to himself as enhancing a hundredfold his
normal enjoyment of life, and being of value to him­
self of value also to others, as he was no more than
an ordinary man. Some mystics might add that it
was out of extreme poverty that they had gained
their experience— out of a self-imposed poverty re­
sulting from a deliberate renunciation of all worldly
goods. Further, the mystic might remind the in­
quirer that even for the most practical kind of work,
spirit is what is ultimately required. Whether a piece
o f practical work is well or ill done depends in the
last resort upon the spirit in which it is done. In
the Great War all in the end depended upon the
spirit of the combatant nations, and the final aim of
statesmen in each country was to fortify the spirit
of their own country and break the spirit of the
283
CONCLUSI ONS
enemy. Even for seeking employment much depends
upon whether it is sought in a gloomy and despondent
or in as cheerful and hopeful a spirit as can be sum­
moned up for the occasion. And it was through
lack of the spirit to make precautionary efforts that
thousands died in the Indian famine. Always it is
the spirit that counts. And it is because the mystical
state refreshes, reinforces and refines the spirit in a
man that it is of such value in practical life.
As practical men we have to cultivate the spirit
and seek out whatever will strengthen it within us.
And what like mysticism will meet such a need ?
Philosophy, science, may supply the cold knowledge
of what the world is like and the clear wisdom as to
what to do. They may point the way. But where,
save in mysticism, will be found the drive and pas­
sion, the glad courage, the sure intuition and the
flaming conviction that will make men not only follow
the way that wisdom shows, but leave the beaten
track and strike upward to unsealed heights ? And
where, save in mysticism, can be found that radiant
serenity which can, with a smile, face all disaster ?
Science and philosophy may give the bare informa­
tion that all things are interdependent, interconnected
and cohere in one living whole ; the recent experience
of mankind in the World War and World Depression
may have shown the political and economic inter­
dependence of nations ; but what like mysticism can
make men feel that kinship with such intensity that
they will sacrifice their lives to deliver their fellows
from pain and evils and fill them with those joys
which they themselves have known ?
For rousing, sustaining and elevating the spirit we
rightly look to great preachers and orators, to poets
and musicians. But all—and more than all—that
284
C ERTI TUDE AT THE CENTRE
these can do to elevate and fortify the spirit, the
mystic claims that the Spirit which is working so
vehemently in him can do. If great poetry, great
music, great art of any description can be of value
in stirring men, putting heart into them, and raising
them out of themselves on to a higher and more
lovely plane of the spirit, all this and more the Spirit
of which the mystic is the manifestation can do for
men. So the mystic would claim.
Then, at the base of all things the mystical state
must surely be of most practical worth ? For if a
man is given certitude at the centre, poise to his
whole being, and made at peace with himself, that
must clearly be something of untold value to him in
the tossings and turmoils of life. If, in addition, he
is set brimming over with an abounding joy which
buoys him up, enables him to buffet his way against
the fiercest storms, to breast wave after wave and
carry him triumphantly through seas of misfortune,
then that value is redoubled. And if this invigorating
joy goes further still—gives a mighty impetus to all
he does, attracts men to him, unites them together,
and shines from him with a radiance that dispels
fear, avarice, jealousy, hatred and all uncharitable­
ness, then that value is again redoubled. If, lastly,
he discovers that something new has come to birth
in his soul, that his whole soul is set going out to
others, that he has become endowed with a new
truthfulness of spirit and an intuitive insight which
enables him to look straight into the hearts of his
fellows and instantly detect the real thing in a man
— that hidden best thing about him which is much
more truly real than that worst which is so glaringly
obvious on the surface—if a man finds himself pos­
sessed of such intuition then the value of the mystical
285
CONCLUSIONS
state is once more redoubled. Such surety, such
serenity, such all-conquering gladness, such insight,
must necessarily be a supreme asset to a man in
practical life. In his business, in professional, official
or public life he has against all provocation, and at
every cost, to keep his equilibrium, retain his com­
posure, control his temper, maintain a sense of pro­
portion, and preserve his intellect unclouded; and,
beyond this negative necessity he has the positive
need of being able to see into men and carry them
gladly with him in the work before him. And for
what will infallibly do these things for him he would
deem no price too heavy to pay.
The same is it with women in society and the home.
Women, as well as men, in the common-day life of
the world, would find the combined serenity and
buoyancy of inestimable value. To them the inex­
haustible joie-de-vivre would be as a pearl of great
price. All that they had they would give to possess it.
This, then, is the measure by which the mystical
experience may be valued.
Now, if the mystical experience is of such para­
mount value in human life—if it is a pointer in
the direction of that higher state towards which the
evolutionary process is progressing, and an impetus
as well as an indicator, we would suppose that every­
one would be eagerly pressing forward to attain it—
that there would be a rush for it as for a goldfield.
We would imagine that everyone would be panting
to train and fit himself for entry into the new state.
We would think that in every home and every school
and every university in every country the training for
it would be the one main aim of all education and
all home upbringing.
But is it ? Universities are the seats of learning.
286
E D UC A T I ON
They set the standard of education throughout a
country. They honour those outside their gates
deemed most worthy of honour. But whoever heard
of a university honouring a mystic ? In what uni­
versity is there a faculty for promoting mysticism ?
From universities have come learned scholars, able
statesmen, efficient civil servants, brilliant scientists.
Where is the university that looks upon it as far and
away its chief and highest business to impart the
temper and the spirit which should animate these
and give aim to all their activities throughout their
lives ?
Through education we want to send our young
men and women into life able to cope with the world,
equipped with a sound working philosophy of life,
capable of distinguishing between the worthy and the
worthless and of appreciating what is unquestionably
of most value and therefore most worth striving after.
They will be put to the most searching tests. Tempta­
tions we know will assail them—temptations to ex­
travagance, luxury, indolence, bad company, vice.
Terrific contingencies they must be prepared to meet
—family bereavement, accidents, loss of health, loss
of employment, loss of money, heart-breaking dis­
appointments in love, war, disasters of many kinds.
We know, too, they will have to forge their way
through a perfect maze of staggering complications,
conflicting interests, opposing sentiments—through
cold criticism, hot anger, hard prejudices, hatred,
suspicion and mistrust.
We know all this to a certainty. We know only
too well the temptations and catastrophes and hos­
tilities that await the young as they launch out into
the world. But we are confident, too, of the good in
them and we want their utmost best to be brought
287
C O N C L U S I O N S
out of them. This, we would suppose, is the final
purpose of all education.
We would expect to see them trained to inure
themselves against whole seas of adversity ; their
fibre strengthened so that they may be able to take
the incessant rubs and worries, the vexations and
petty disappointment of life with cheery composure
as all in the day’s work ; their temper steeled till
they are able to bear the heaviest responsibilities,
take the cruellest decisions and act upon them with
unflinching courage. Yet, also, we would wish for
them much more than passive endurance. We would
wish them made active and forthcoming, quick in
discrimination and eager in response to every rightful
impression. Whether it be in earning a living, in
choosing a mate, in making a home or in conducting
great affairs of state or of business, we would want
them able to do consummately well whatever they
undertake. As their lives mature we would want
them to become increasingly refined so that they may
have grace sufficient to allay antagonisms, appease
resentments and compose differences. We would wish
their eyes trained to discover fresh beauties in the
world around them and their souls quickened to a
full appreciation and enjoyment of all such beauty.
Most fervently would we wish that they should know
how to choose friends well and keep them fast. And
while we are aware of the dangers of sex we are
still more acutely aware of its benefits—of the good a
woman may elicit from a man and a man from a
woman. So we would desire the intercourse between
men and women to become increasingly intimate in
order that the most fit mating may be assured. And
all this we would desire for those going out into
life because we believe that only as their whole selves,
288
F I T S P I R I T U A L N O U R I S H M E N T
body, mind, and spirit, are satisfied can they ever
have that highest happiness we would most of all
want for them and which alone will bring with it
final peace and contentment.
This is how we would like our young to be pro­
vided for as they launch out into life. But in all
that concerns these deepest things in life where is
that wise guidance and expert training given ? In
most European and American homes, schools, and
universities, attention is paid to bodily health, to
training the mind, to forming character, and to foster­
ing patriotism ; but how much is there given to
the fundamental things of the soul and to that wider
patriotism—the love of that whole great world which
gave humanity birth ? Technical training of the most
perfect kind is often provided for the various sciences,
and for such arts as music, drawing and painting ;
but where is there to be found any technical training
for that mode of life for which the human race is so
obviously destined ? A smattering of religious educa­
tion may be given in the schools and by the churches
at the time of confirmation ; but where is to be found
that highly expert and prolonged education of the
soul which the progress of mankind so urgently re­
quires ? Where is fit spiritual nourishment provided ?
For the science and art of mysticism almost no
provision is made in our education. And as no such
training is available we have to grope our way to­
wards it, recognizing that we have to train ourselves
not only for intellectually knowing the great Creative
Spirit of the universe but also for feeling It in the
same way as a patriot feels the spirit of his country
— in the same way only to a far intenser degree. May
I therefore put forward a few tentative suggestions
evoked by this study of present-day mystics and by
289
C O N C L U S I O N S
personal intercourse with a few of them, but put
them forward only as supplementary to what has
already been so fully expounded by such authorities
as Poulain, Evelyn Underhill, and Rufus Jones, and
by Hindu yogis.
II
The crucial point to be first decided by all embark­
ing on life is whether the universe is to be considered
friendly or indifferent. For upon a man’s view of
the nature of the world he lives in must depend
his fundamental attitude to fife. With all our hearts
we would long that those going out into the world
should feel assured in their hearts that the world
they live in is governed for good, and that in every
effort they make towards the good they will have
the whole weight of the universe behind them. Yet
we recognize how natural it is for them, when they
see so much evil about and are being so continually
warned of the evils to be on their guard against, to
have periods of doubt, depression, and disillusion­
ment. So, while we would afford them every oppor­
tunity of learning what is the true view of the universe
and would imperatively compel them earnestly to
consider it and their attitude towards it, we know
how important it is that having done this much we
should also leave them to make their own decisions
in the matter. For only as they make their belief
on fundamental matters their own will they be able
to act on it with conviction and force. Moreover,
however much faith they may have, it will be the
stronger for being confirmed by thought; and what­
ever their courage may be it will be strengthened by
judgment. They must decide for themselves, there­
fore— and may take years about it, so long as they
290
B A S I C V I E W O F L I F E
are seriously deliberating and not merely letting them­
selves drift—whether the universe to which they
belong is simply a blind mechanism grinding relent­
lessly on without a thought for them or their fondest
hopes and ambitions, or whether it is a living uni­
verse, a loving and a lovable world which will sustain
them in every effort they make to accomplish what is
good and beautiful, and will reward with unspeakable
joy every perfection they achieve. They must make
up their minds whether they will go into life as
Bertrand Russell did, believing that physical laws
ultimately prevail and that what we hope for and
achieve is destined to final extinction ; or as Cecil
Rhodes did, assuming that the chances are even
whether there is a God or not and that the survival
of the fittest is the rule by which the universe is
guided ; or like McTaggart did with an intellectual as
well as an emotional certitude that the universe is
essentially a spiritual universe animated by love.
Those who have not been able to satisfy themselves
that the world is governed for good will presumably
not desire to fit themselves for attaining the mystical
experience. But those who really have convinced
themselves of the goodness of the world will want
to experience the goodness of things to the full.
They will have heard from the mystics of the feeling
of intense beatitude which it brings and they too
will want to experience this overflowing joy. They
will want to have direct, immediate experience of
the effects on them of the working of that Creative
Spirit which they have assured themselves drives and
governs the world.
Fear of pain may deter them from adopting a
wrong course. But it is no sufficient incentive for
high adventure. Vision and imagination are required
291
C O N C L U S I O N S
for that. Anticipation of the joy of achievement is
what lures men upward on the dangerous climb. And
it is anticipation of the bliss of the mystical experi­
ence that will be the irresistible lure for those who
would now desire to attain the mystic state.
But in order to gain that experience they must
obviously have to fit themselves. Some indeed have
acquired it without any definite training. The author­
ess of The Golden Fountain is an instance ; and even
the great Indian mystic and philosopher of ancient
times, Sankara, prided himself upon never having
deliberately trained himself in yoga practice. Yet
assuredly some technical training would be beneficial,
and the time has come when a psychologist who can
bring his mind without prejudices to this crucially
important subject is distressingly needed to steer
groping humanity through the uncharted realm of
the spirit which it has now to explore.
In the meanwhile, even if no technical training be
available, there are certain obvious steps which all
who seek to obtain experience of the Universal Spirit
may take. All might set their affections on things
above. All might set their whole hearts upon attain­
ing higher and higher perfection, upon ascertaining
and assuring themselves of what are the most valuable
things in life. All might school and discipline their
powers of attention. All might daily spend some
portion of their time in deliberately focusing their
whole selves upon the Highest Perfection—praying to
God as it is usually described—purifying their minds
of any lesser thought or desire ; selecting from time
to time first one and then another particular per­
fection, meditating carefully upon it, appreciating
with discrimination what precisely constitutes its per­
fection, whether of goodness, beauty, or truth, and
292
D E M A N D F O R T H E B E T T E R
then using their full will and intention to achieve
that perfection.
And the modern explorer of the high and holy
realms of the spirit will take modern ways of pre­
paring himself. And he will start with this advan­
tage—that there is about him in these days a demand
for the better of which he would be wise to take
full benefit, and turn into a passion for the best.
People are demanding better food—not necessarily
more luxurious, but fresher, more wholesome and
more varied. They are wanting better clothing—not
necessarily finer but warmer for winter and cooler
for summer. They are seeking better houses—not
necessarily more sumptuous— but lighter, more airy,
more beautiful and better adapted to house-keeping
needs. They are calling out for better means of
locomotion— a faster train service or "bus service or
bicycle or motor-car. They want, too. better means
of communication—a better telephone service or radio
set. Better conditions of labour they are crying for
too— better conditions in the factory and more leisure.
More air and sunshine they are wanting in their lives.
In every way they are trying to better their lot.
And here and there one succeeds. And by what
the one does to achieve perfection the whole benefits.
The millionaire is decried, but he may have initiated
or developed a new enterprise and benefited the whole
community. He who builds the fastest motor-car or
aeroplane helps the builders of ordinary motor-cars
and aeroplanes and through them the general public.
The climber of the highest mountain encourages the
climbing of all lesser peaks and thus adds to the
enjoyments of all.
In this atmosphere of striving after the better and
the best the modern spiritual explorer will make his
293
C O N C L U S I O N S
start; and of it he will have to take advantage,
filling his lungs with as much of it as they will hold.
What men are everywhere doing in games and in
sport in striving at least to see, even if they cannot
play, the finest cricket, or football, or lawn-tennis,
or golf, he will do likewise in the higher realm of the
spirit. He will seek at least to be acquainted with
what is the most perfect in poetry, or drama, music
or poetry, oratory or preaching, and in holiness of
living. Thus will he discover for himself what really
is of most worth and get to know what true excel­
lence is, so that he may infallibly recognize it when
he sees it—and infallibly also recognize what just
falls below it. And once having known the best he
will never be finally contented with anything less.
A yearning for that best will remain within him.
With nothing short of the best will he ever after be
really satisfied. And with him a striving after per­
fection will soon become a habit.
And nowadays through the progress of science it
is easier than ever before at least to see or hear
examples of what the highest perfection really is.
The modern spiritual explorer has but to decide for
himself what is most worth striving after, making
his own, treasuring and developing—he has only to
make up his mind as to what is the most precious
thing in life and he can at least see it if he will only
make full and proper use of the mastery which modern
science has made over matter. If he will neither
spurn the modern machine on the one hand, nor on
the other, let the machine master the man, he will
find in it an inexhaustibly useful extension of his
body. For through the instrumentality of the modem
machine his eyesight has been extended till he can
see objects 140 million light-years distant and others
294
S E E K I N G P E R F E C T I O N
a thousand times finer than a spider’s w eb; his
hearing has been so extended that he can hear voices
from the Antipodes; and his power of locomotion
till he can travel from England to India in a day
through the air at two or three hundred miles an
hour. And with this capacity of his body thus ex­
panded his soul may be proportionately enlarged if he
will now learn to make the fullest use of the machine
which the skill of science has placed in his hands.
Through it he should be able to track down per­
fection however remote it may be and however ob­
scurely hidden. And reciprocally, perfection will be
using the machine to reach him. Not only is the
power of hearing increased but the power of speaking
also. The King’s voice is heard at Christmas all
round the world, carrying messages of greeting and
good-will to his subjects. Both the seeker and the
promoter of perfection have much to gain through
the instrumentality of modern science.
May we suggest a few of the ways in which modern
material development may thus be of aid to the
spiritual researcher ? Take, for instance, broadcast­
ing. The radio brings perfection of music, preaching,
oratory, straight into the home. Then again, cheap
books, free libraries, good newspapers, bring him the
best literature. The railway, the omnibus, the motor-
coach, will take a man inexpensively to where per­
fections of other kinds may be seen or heard. A
town-dweller has the advantage of easy access to
theatres and cinemas where he can, if he choose
wisely, see good drama, to museums where he can see
fine pictures and other works of art, to churches
where he can see fine architecture and hear good
preachers and singers, and to public parks where he
can see the many beauties of flowers, trees and shrubs.
295
C O N C L U S I O N S
Temporary exhibitions, too, he may see of the best
producible in many spheres of art and science. The
country dweller has not these particular advantages ;
but he has others of his own. He has the benefit of
quietude and tranquillity and of close touch with the
glories and beauties of nature, of his own garden
and of neighbouring meadows and woodlands. And
with the growing facilities for locomotion the advan­
tages of town-dweller and countryman may be inter­
changed—the town-dweller benefiting by the repose
and beauty of the country and the countryman by
the more vivid fife of the town.
And both may use these swifter and easier means
of transportation and communication to seek that
best thing of all, the best society. Not indeed the
smart society of London or Paris, of Borne or New
York ; and not only the most intellectual society or
the most art-loving. Not this, but the society of
those few who are closest to the ground of things
and who may be found in tiny villages as well as in
great towns—those joyous children in spirit, however
aged in years, whose company gladdens all who are
privileged to share it.
Thus will the spiritual explorer make use of science
to cultivate a flair for perfection, first assuring him­
self of what is the highest perfection, then rigidly
restricting himself to attempting only what is really
worth while, and finally determining to do that thing
to perfection—to do it with finish—to make of it a
real work of art.
And concrete examples of perfection will be helpful
to him here. For, besides wanting some principle
to hold on to and believe in, a man wants also
some person. And living are better than recorded
examples. It is for that reason that the Hindu de-
296
L I V I N G E X A M P L E S
votee travels over India from one Swami to another
in search of the one who will most fully fulfil his
ideals, while Roman Catholic nuns have to be content
with reading lives of saints long since dead. And in
searching for living examples modern means of trans­
portation and communication will again be a help.
Hindus attach the greatest importance to the actual
bodily touch of the disciple by the master. In the
case of Vivekenanda we have seen what a thrilling,
almost intoxicating, effect the touch of Ramakrishna
had upon him. But such bodily touch cannot always
be expected. What however is fairly accessible for
those who set their heart on it is at least the sight
at a public meeting or the hearing on the radio of
one or other of the most spiritual men and women
of the day. This is not a ll: but it is a little. It
is a little of the living touch which means so much in
spiritual matters. And we have seen how much even
the sight of Pope Leo X III did for the Protestant
authoress of The Golden Fountain in showing her what
holiness meant.
Ill
By heroic examples of the past, and by living touch
with examples in his own day the modern mystic’s
imagination will be fired. He will be stirred to
emulate them. He will dare even to surpass them.
Why not ? For he starts with the advantage of their
example. Where they had pioneered the way he may
more easily follow after. He should therefore be able
to outstrip them.
Profiting by their example he will fit himself rigor­
ously for the venture, schooling himself with the
sternest discipline to stand the fearful strains which
lie before him, yet also quickening his sensitivity till
297 u
M.M.
C O N C L U S I O N S
his soul is able to register the subtlest impressions,
surely discriminate the good of them from the bad, the
better from the good, and the best from the better, and
then to the best instantly give the liveliest response.
And the modern mystic will not seclude himself
from life : he will live in its very midst. He will
not live the hermit life in the mountain or the jungle
or seclude himself in a monastery. Nor will the
woman mystic think it necessary to retire into a
convent. Rather will the modern mystic live the full
life of the world. Convinced of the divinity in men
and women he will love to be among them to be
stimulated by that divinity. He will not adopt arti­
ficial penances to discipline himself: he will let the
only too many rubs and disappointments and endur­
ances of life do that for him. He will not inflict
uncalled for sufferings on himself, he will let the
sufferings of life do their own work in sensitizing
his soul. In bodily health, in mental alertness, in
tenderness of heart, and in sensitivity of soul he
will keep himself as fit as an athlete or a concert
pianist for the stern yet delicate work that lies before
him. And he will let the usual battling through the
oppositions and rivalries of his fellow-men do what is
necessary for tautening his fibre, and sharpening his
intelligence, and will let sharing in their joys and
sorrows deepen his sympathy and quicken his in­
tuition. Assuredly, he will find necessity for brief
periods for retreat and solitary communion with him­
self and with the Spirit. But in the main he will
live in the world ; and in his fellow-men he will find
his chief inspiration.
Being already convinced that the Creative Spirit
of the universe is no separate person living outside
of and apart from the world and watching with a
298
E S P R I T D E C O R P S
Judge’s eye our puny efforts to please Him, but is a
Power unceasingly at work in us as well as in all
about us, fashioning us into more God-like beings and
more effective agents for carrying out Its vast pur­
poses, the modern mystic will prepare to let himself
melt into that Spirit of the Whole, absorb It till he
is at more than saturation point, as a lover is over­
flowing with joy or a patriot with love of his country.
Thus will he become increasingly aware of the divinity
in himself and increasingly disposed to credit his
fellows with what he himself so vividly possesses.
In his earlier days his efforts may be more ex­
clusively concentrated upon perfecting himself But
in maturer years his thoughts will be set more
upon helping his fellows, his country, and mankind.
Eschewing pure selfishness as sheer self-destruction
he will yet jealously preserve his own individuality,
for he will know the necessity of differentiation in
every unity and the value of the contrast which
variety affords. He will not be selfish, but he will
be himself to the full, as must be every singer in a
choir. But with his individuality he will develop his
sociality, as only in the society of his fellows can
his individuality develop to the full. So he will
cultivate esprit de corps in all its forms—patriotism,
local patriotism (such as love of Parisians for Paris
and Devonians for Devon), comradeship, that fellow-
feeling which all throughout the world have for others
engaged in the same kind of work, the artist for all
artists, the scientist for all scientists, the lawyer for
all lawyers, the manual labourer for all hand-workers,
the peasant for all peasants. He will share in that
common admiration all have for perfection in the
other—all artists for perfection in the scientist and
all scientists for perfection in the artist. And in
298 u*
M.M.
C O N C L U S I O N S
developing at once his individuality and his sociality
self-assertion will be as necessary as self-surrender and
self-surrender as needful as self-assertion. Times there
will be when he must have the vision, the wisdom,
the initiative and the courage to assert himself for the
sake of the divine that is in him. Other occasions
there will be when, for the sake of his family, or
his child, or his country, or out of love for humanity,
he must surrender all—even his life. The mother,
the soldier, the captain of a sinking ship all know
such occasions and instinctively act on them.
With feeling and reason a like adjustment he will
have to make. He will learn to be as aware of the
danger of feeling without reason as of the chill of
reason without feeling. While inimitably deepening
his love and affection he will not disdain the in­
tellect but increase its power and add to his know­
ledge. Judgment and good sense he will value as
well as affection, till feeling is tempered by wisdom
and wisdom warmed by feeling.
And with reason thus combined with feeling the
modern mystic will take a very different view of the
passions than have many mystics of the past. Pas­
sions he will not regard as evil in themselves but as
good—good as furnishing the driving force for all
great effort. They need not degrade : purified and
refined they will only elevate. So not suppression
but control of the passions will be his aim. Not
mortification but sublimation. Not celibacy but mar­
riage—marriage with one who is capable of eliciting
from him the divinest potentialities in his passions
and of making them heroic.
He will put his whole heart into whatever he does,
but first he will put the Holy Spirit into his heart.
By prayer and meditation he will strive to align
300
B A T T L I N G W I T H E V I L
himself with the central drive of the universe and
to imbibe its Spirit. By sternly focusing his entire
attention upon some perfection of beauty or goodness
and meditating deliberately upon it— upon the various
elements that go to make its perfection— he will pierce
to the inner essence of its beauty or its goodness
and eventually reach the Source of all perfection.
He would cultivate the nicest appreciation of the
exact worth of each object and would recognize that
each such perfection was only a part. He would see
it as a part but with a feeling for the whole. He
would realize that a single perfection pursued to the
exclusion of others would become a defect. Each
must be viewed in relation to the whole and as but
one aspect or attribute of the Spirit which animates
and sustains the whole. And he would not, while
seeking the good, ignore the evil. But he would
view the evil also with a feeling for the whole. He
would see it in proportion to the whole ; and he
would not allow himself to be unduly obsessed by
its presence in the world. He would not shut his
eyes to death the inevitable, to the prevalence of
disease, and to the existence of vice, malice and
cruelty. But he would note that in the long result
death has been beneficial as opening the way to the
evolutionary emergence of higher and higher forms
of life—that without death there could have been
no progress. And rather than let his mind dwell
disproportionately on the obvious evils of life he
would remind himself of the skill men display in
battling disease, of their heroism in enduring un­
avoidable suffering, of their self-sacrificing devotion in
the removal of vice, and of their determined attempts
to beautify what is mean and in every way better
the lot of mankind.
301
C O N C L U S I O N S
Then realizing the deep significance of the everyday
things of life he would take those common objects
as the subjects of his meditation. One or other of
these he would take according as it might present
itself to him or according to his mood of the moment.
But once having made his selection he would devote
his whole self to it. Each would be taken in turn day
to day, year to year, and for the period of meditation,
whether that period be a minute or an hour, it would
be profoundly and intensely meditated upon again
and again till the would-be mystic had saturated
himself with its particular perfection—till he had
absorbed it into his being and become absolutely
possessed by its excellence.
Such everyday subjects for meditation might be
the grandeur of a thunderstorm, the magnificence of
mounting monsoon clouds, the gladness of spring, the
glow of autumn, the solemnity of night, or the in­
finity of far horizons. Or they might be the beauty
in form or colour of some tree or flower : the state­
liness of a deodar, the loveliness of a rose, the purity
of a lily, the distinction of an orchid, the delicacy of
a primrose, the grace of a clematis. Or they might
be the sweetness of a robin’s song, the daintiness of a
wagtail, the heroism of a mother-bird, the attraction
of young things, the loyalty of a dog, the dignity
of a stag, the keenness of a hawk, or the sagacity of
an elephant. Or again they might be the intuition
and spontaneity of a child, the charm of a woman,
the virility of a man, the light in lovers’ eyes, the
holiness of perfect mating, or the joy of motherhood.
Or, more in particular, they might be the art of
Shakespeare, the greatness of Napoleon, the daring
of Nelson, the nobility of Lincoln, the sincerity of
Darwin, the chivalry of Bayard, the humanity of
302
M E D I T A T I ON
Wilberforce, the compassion of Catherine Booth, or
the gay saintliness of St. Francis. Or they might be
any of these high qualities typified in living examples
of the day.
The duration of the meditation might vary from a
few impulsive moments as an object might suddenly
impress itself on him to long unhurried hours as
the complexity of the interrelated elements which
go to make a particular perfection came into view.
In any case, the meditation would for that period
be concentrated and intense. And as it grew in
intensity it would rise to admiration. And as admira­
tion for some specially high perfection intensified
it would grow to adoration. And adoration would
culminate in emulation. Emulation of what others
had achieved would then become the governing motive
of the meditator’s life. As they had done, so would
he do : nothing less. He would model himself first
on this and then on that one who had achieved
some high quality and then step by step creep up to
and eventually surpass him.
Nor would he stop there. In addition to meditating
upon high qualities separately he would further ponder
on them in their togetherness. For his sense of pro­
portion would show him that each was only a part—
only a part of a whole—and that in the whole there
may be other and higher things than in the parts
separately. In selected times of secure leisure, away
on the mountain side or by the fireside in the quiet
of the night, he would more particularly concentrate
his most earnest attention on that which lies behind
all and includes all—that stupendous ultimate of
which these high qualities are the different attributes
and manifestations. He would meditate on the uni­
verse as a whole. He would collect himself together
303
C O N C L U S I O N S
and, undistracted by any other interest, meditate
deeply, penetratingly, upon the sublimity of the starry
universe as a whole, upon the utter interdependence
of every single part with every other part and with
the whole ; and upon the possibility, nay, the prob­
ability, that many other stars than our sun may have
planets attached to them, inhabited by intelligent
beings, far higher in the scale of life than ourselves.
By thus from time to time deliberately recalling what
we know of the immensity of the universe and re­
flecting most deeply on its sublimity, on the infinite
beauty of the world with which he himself is so
tightly connected as an integral part, and on the
possibility that it contains beings far higher than
himself, his horizon will be widened, his sense of the
whole developed, and his feeling for the infinite and
the sacred quickened and intensified. And as he
meditates long and often throughout his life on these
greatest of all things, awe and wonder and reverence
will grow and deepen within him ; though too deep
for words his feelings may then become, and only
through the greater art in the solemnity of public
worship may it be possible for mankind in the smallest
degree to express them.
When he descends from these heights and goes
back into life he may quickly become aware of the
sufferings and evils about him. But he will notice
that the most poignant sorrow is invariably matched
by the profoundest sympathy and the direst calamity
by the highest heroism—the one evoking the other.
And his newly acquired sense of the whole will have
shown him how in the process of time evils are slowly
dissolved, as impurities are by the sunshine. Though
he will also recognize that it is only through the
active instrumentality of himself and others, as rays
304
C O N T R O L L I N G H I S P O W E R S
from that sun, that evil is redeemed. The evil and
misery round him will therefore only stimulate him
to action, as calamity spurs to heroism.
Thus will he seek to clear and complete his vision
of the world, to obtain a more truthful picture of the
universe, to store his mind with more beautiful images
and to attain sublimer heights of perfection. And
such meditation to be most fruitful would be made
in the very midst of life, in periods of leisure pur­
posely and at all costs made for the purpose. For
this experience of the fundamental realities of exis­
tence gained in meditation is life itself—not merely
the means to it, as is that part of life concerned with
bread-winning and the ordinary social amenities. It
is of the very essence of life. And for that reason, of
an early morning or an evening, on walks or amongst
crowds, or during a holiday— whenever or wherever
leisure may be found or made—the modern mystic
would be wise to resort to meditation.
Thus will he concentrate his faculties and control
his powers. And having in this way gathered himself
together occasions will from time to time arise when
he will feel himself impelled to go beyond meditation
—when he will feel driven to throw out his whole
collected self in yearning aspiration towards that
Supreme End which has also been the Source and In­
spiration of all his striving. In gratefullest thanks­
giving for whatever he has so far enjoyed, but with
passionate prayer for yet higher favours to come, he
will feel constrained to fling himself upward to the
Most High and Holy, the final Bestower of all good
gifts.
Then one day his prayer will be answered. The
culmination of all things will be reached. The climax
305
C O N C L U S I O N S
will have come. Of a sudden a rending crisis will
be on him—a fearful upheaval within him, a breaking
down of all barriers, a tearing assunder of that which
encases him and keeps him together and separate,
and a sudden inrush from without. A rushing mighty
wind will sweep through his soul. He wall be filled
with the Holy Ghost. Caught up in a hurricane
of unendurable rapture he will no longer be able
to contain himself. He will be beside himself with
unbearable joy.
In one breathless leap he will be exalted beyond
the utmost he had prayed for or expected. What
Columbus must have felt on reaching the New World,
what the Everest climber will feel on attaining the
summit, what every mother feels on first seeing her
firstborn—all these combined and surpassed he will
now experience. Before he was self-conscious, now
he will be world-conscious, cosmic-conscious, God­
conscious.
A slow settling down will necessarily follow this
terrifying convulsion of the Spirit. And in that calm
a great peace wall fall on him. Cleansed, purified,
redeemed, he will at last be really himself. He will
be sure on his pivot. His nerves will be steadied.
He will have emerged as a new man, breathing a
new air, bathed in a new light. Life in a new world
will have begun. It will be the same world to w
r
hich
he had alwT
ays belonged ; but he wall be seeing it in
a new light. The scales will have fallen from his eyes.
What kept him to earth will have been unloosed.
Wings will have come to his soul and he will soar
away to infinite heights.
Yet, though no longer tied to the ground he will
still belong to the earth. He will still love to be
among his fellow-men. And now more than ever.
306
T H E M Y S T I C ’ S P A R T
For in the new light he will see a beauty and a good­
ness in their hearts he had never suspected before.
He will see what they too are capable of becoming.
And he would open their eyes to the new world that
is theirs for the seeing. But how can he do this ?
How can he make the blind to see ? How can he
make them aware of the encompassing glory ?
Of himself it would be impossible. But no man
works of himself alone. In all men is working what
was working in himself. He, too, used to be blind
like they. But working in him was the incessant
urge to break through to the light. Prompting him
was this urge to high adventure. And it is the same
with some of them. They, too, are possessed of the
same urge to perfection, and all he will have to do
is to help them to come to themselves. A skylark
would find it hard to tell her still blind and feather­
less chicks of the glories of life in the sunshine. Yet
she can provide the conditions that will enable them
to see. She can keep her chicks warm in the nest,
bring them food, aid them in developing the powers
within them till they, too, have won their wings and
their eyesight and like her can soar to the skies. And
the mystic’s task will be the same. He cannot of
himself make men see. But he can help men to
see for themselves. He can put faith into them,
subtly communicate to them something of his own
confidence, give them confidence in themselves, con­
fidence in their fellow-men, confidence in the beauty
and goodness of the world in which they are im­
mersed and with which they are inseparably con­
nected. That much he can do. And it is enough.
For the world itself will do the rest. The Creative
Urge of the universe will do its work.
As a result more and more men will reach extreme
307
C O N C L U S I O N S
tension, pass the crisis, burst through their encase­
ment and come to full consciousness of the glorious
world in which they are immersed—more and more
will have the new vision and see the world in the
new light. And among those who will be pressing
forward to the conquest of the new realm there will
spring up an ardent rivalry. Each will be eager to
surpass the other in advancing the kingdom of heaven
upon earth. Thus will the higher species of man come
into being and steadily spread over this planet, till
the earth is peopled by a new type of men—men
capable of enduring the lightning intensity of a new
standard of living as high above our present standard
as that is above the standard of monkeys ; and an
all-embracing charity will have become as much the
order of mankind as esprit de corps is the rule of a
regiment.
For the future habitability of this planet science
allows a period of time far more than a hundred
times greater than the, roughly, one thousand million
years it has taken life to develop from the proverbial
amoeba to man. And of what such vast period of
time means we may form some faint conception if
we adopt and adapt a method used by Jeans to
illustrate what a million is. He points out that a
book of 500 pages, each page of 330 words of an
average length of six letters, would contain about a
million letters. Taking this scale and applying it to
a proposed history of life on this earth and allowing
one letter for each year, that is about sixteen words
for a century, and half a page for a thousand years,
we find that the history would occupy a thousand
volumes. And only in the last of those thousand
volumes would the history of man commence, and
308
F U T U R E D E V E L O P M E N T
only in the last page or two of that last volume would
the story of civilized man be told. But a new era
has already dawned. The spiritualization of man
has begun. The first page of a new volume is being
written. But ere the history of life upon this earth
has been completed another thousand volumes—per­
haps ten or even a hundred thousand volumes—will
have to be written even though the story is so con­
densed that only half a page would be allowed for a
thousand years. And the stage for the drama which
the new series of volumes will record will be very
different from the tiny terrestrial stage upon which
the drama so far has been played : it will extend
over the entire stellar universe. And it will portray
the conquest not merely of the land and the air
on this planet but of that spiritual realm which is
co-extensive with the universe itself. When we think
of the wonders already written on the first page
describing this new era of the spirit we can see no
limit to the height of development which will be
described before the final page of these thousand of
volumes is reached. If life has developed from a
microscopic single-celled organism to man in a thou­
sand million years imagination reels at the thought
of what it may develop into in a period ten or a
hundred times as great.
Ten thousand million years hence we may well
conjecture our far descendants will have fashioned
the minerals of this planet into instruments of such
surpassing range and nicety as would enable them
to detect the subtlest vibrations of the ether and
most delicately yet precisely respond to messages
from the universe at large borne on them as the eye
responds to light from distant stars. And they them­
selves may have developed such sensitivity of soul,
309
C O N C L U S I O N S
such fineness of perception and response, that with
the aid of these instruments for extending their powers
of hearing and seeing they may be able to recognize
influences emanating from any living beings there
may be on other planets of other stars. And by thus
establishing contact with any such living beings they
may be able with them to form a close community
of celestial beings throughout the universe.
We may likewise suppose that the Creative Spirit,
working as It will be on this planet day and night
through every second of those ten thousand million
years, will by then have brought into being here
on this earth a Master Mystic who will embody It
in supreme degree and most perfectly make manifest
Its sovereign purpose. Then through the powers of
transmission which science would by then have de­
veloped this Master Mystic would be able to exert
his master influence over the whole community of
living beings throughout the universe and, for the
period of his ascendancy, be the central directing
power of the world holding them together, controlling
them and alluring them upward. This planet would
for that period occupy the key position and be the
dynamic focal centre for the spiritualization of the
whole universe.
This indeed is pure speculation. But it is legitimate
speculation. And speculation is necessary. For the
human species is on the move. It is on the upward
grade. It is not tied down by inexorable instinct
like the bees, who through being thus bound have
remained in their present state for millions of years.
Man is endowed with an intelligence which enables
him to profit by experience. Through this intelli­
gence hide-bound instinct is being broken up and
more pliable intuition is taking its place. Using his
310
T H E S U M O F I T A L L
intelligence and powers of direct intuition man is
looking ahead. A few of the more venturous spirits
are advancing into new ground. They have to watch
their every footstep lest they fall. But an explorer’s
attention is not always on the ground immediately
beneath his feet. From time to time he halts on
some eminence. Then he hits his eyes to scan the
far horizons for those distant snowy peaks which
mark the climax of his journeyings. A glance may
be sufficient. But that glance is a necessity. It
maintains his sense of proportion and assures him of
the right direction. And so is it with those who
are pioneering the way into the new realm of the
spirit. They, too, have to look ahead. Like born
explorers they have to divine instinctively what may
he before them and thereby shape their course.
So the sum of it all is this. As life, which origin­
ated in the sea, first conquered the land and then the
air, so will it now conquer that enveloping realm of
the spirit which extends to the farthest confines of the
universe and has been there from all time and will
remain there for all time, world without end. Evolu­
tion will remain. Natural Selection, the Struggle for
Existence, and the Survival of the Fittest, will remain.
But the drive to evolve will derive, as it always has
derived, from the informing Will in the deeps of the
Universe as a whole ; the “ Nature ” which selects
will be, as it always has been, the informing Mind
in its infinite heights; the struggle will not be for
bare existence but for higher existence; and the
fittest to survive will be the fittest to endure the
intensity of this higher form of living. Then through
the operation of this struggle for a higher existence
men will be kept on the razor edge of their capacity.
311
C O N C L U S I O N S
And through being forced to be at their best, the
keenest enjoyment of life will be theirs.
Men will become aware that their great days are
before them. No longer will they look back to a
golden age of the past. They will turn their whole
minds to the glories of the future. The promise of
that future is already working in them. A great Hope
is dawning in their hearts. That hope will brighten
into Expectation. And expectation kindles Effort:
men will vie with one another to bring it to Fulfil­
ment. The many will fail: the few will succeed.
But the few will acknowledge that without the many
fulfilment could never have been achieved. And Joy
will be to all who genuinely strive. For joy is in
the struggle. Great gladness infallibly comes to all
who courageously strive to be to the full whatever
is in them.
And he who means to be more than his best will
win most.
312
INDEX
INDEX
Bab : birth of, 100 ; convinces
Husayn he is the Promised
One, 102 ; appoints eighteen
Apostles, 105 ; proceeds to
Mecca, 111 ; returns to Bu-
shire, 114 ; his writings cause
consternation, 115 ; arrested,
117 ; imprisoned, 119 ;
brought to Tabriz for
investigation, 135 ; basti­
nadoed, 138 ; executed, 140
Baha-ullah: receives scroll from
Bab, 109 ; joins Conference
at Badasht, 122 ; sets out to
join Husayn, 129 ; The One
who shall be manifested,”
142
Celibacy : 269 ct w{.
Creative Spirit : 2, 260, 263-4,
269, 298, 310
Evil : 274-7, 301
Fellowship : 249, 250, 258
God : 6, 264-9
Golden Fountain, Authoress of :
desire for anonymity, 178 ;
marriage, 179 ; yearning for
God, 180 ; capacity for love
and for suffering, 181 ; medi­
tation, 184 ; turns to Jesus,
190 ; habit of dramatizing,
191 ; vision of Jesus, 192 ;
extreme of suffering, 194 ;
mystical experience, 196 ;
contact with God, 199 ;
changed life, 201 ; great
peace, 205 ; marriage-love,
207 ; result of spiritual ex­
perience, 209 ; difficulty of
communicating, 211
Husayn : searches for the Pro­
mised One, 101 ; is con­
verted by Bab, 101 ; pro­
ceeds on mission, 104 ; joins
Bab at Shiraz, 118 ; returns
to Meshed, 120 ; hoists the
Black Standard, 123 ; builds
fort at Tabarsi, 127 ; slain
in battle, 131
Inge, Dr. : Preface
Interdependence, of things : 2,
255
J esu s: 80, 165, 167, 190
J o y : 2 4 8,25 1,2 61
Keshub Chander Sen : meeting
with Ramakrishna, 22 ; char­
acter, 22 ; visits Rama-
krishna, 25 ; education, 27 ;
forms Goodwill Fraternity,
29 ; joins B rahmo Somaj,
30 ; opposed by his family,
32 ; tours through India, 35 ;
breaks with old Brahmo
Somaj, 3 6 ; visits England,
41 ; embraces Vaishnavism,
I N D E X
Keshub Chander Sen :— contd.
45 ; forms idea of Mother­
hood of God, 47 ; announces
New Dispensation, 50 ; mys­
tical experience, 52 ; death,
53
Marriage-love : 270-3
Meditation : 302-4
Mystical experience : 5, 8, 16,
286, 292
Mysticism : 284, 289
Mystics : 6, 14, 247, 257
Prayer : 292, 305
Ramakrishna : meeting with
Keshub, 22 -3 ; birth, 55 ;
love of drama, 55 ; early
mystical experience, 56 ; im­
pressionability, 57 ; ap­
pointed priest, 61 ; love of
meditation, 62 ; suffering,
65 ; mystical experience,
65 ; believed to be mad, 68 ;
takes a woman as guru, 70 ;
takes Totapuri as guru, 73 ;
lives as Moslem, 79 ; lives
as Christian, 80 ; worships
womanhood in his wife, 82 ;
Vivekenanda comes to him,
84 ; he trains Vivekenanda,
87 ; imparts to him his
spirituality, 95 ; death, 95
Roberts, Evan : birth and
parentage, 215 ; religious
disposition, 216 ; mystical
experience, 219 ; descent of
the Spirit, 221 ; starts a
mission in Loughor, 225 ;
Revival spreads, 229 ; his
method, 233 ; criticism of it,
231 ; his joyousness, 237
Sainte Thérèse : her character
and religious disposition, 145 ;
love of nature, 145 ; vision of
the Virgin Mary, 149 ; first
Communion, 151 ; ambition
to enter Carmelite Convent,
154 ; audience of Pope, 156 ;
enters Convent, 159 ; mysti­
cal experience, 162-3 ; suffer­
ing, 163 ; her “ little way,”
168 ; Mistress of Novices,
168 ; efficacy of prayer, 170 ;
illness, 172 ; death, 174
Underhill, Evelyn : Preface,
290
Vivekenanda : character, 85 ;
visits Ramakrishna, 86 ; scep­
ticism, 89 ; much worldly
trouble, 91 ; in temple of
Kali, 93 ; mystical experi­
ence, 95 ; leads Ramakrish-
na’s disciples and visits
Europe and America, 96
W^iite, Douglas : 271
Made and Printed in Great Britain by Butler & Tanner Ltd., Frome and London
