{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__franklyn__a_survey_of_the_occult.pdf","mytitle":"UNKNOWN","mylang":"de"}
A SURVEY
OF THE OCCULT
Edited by
JULIAN FRANKLYN
A uthor of This Gutter Life : A Novel
with contributions by
DR. F. E. BUDD, Ph.D.
Lecturer in English in the U niversity of London and
Editor of The Plays of W illiam Burnaby
J. H. MOZLEY, M.A. Camb.
Lecturer in Classics in the U niversity of London
S. G. SOAL, M.A., B.Sc.
Member of the E xecutive of the U niversity of London Council for
Psychical Investigation ; Member of the Council of the Society for
Psychical Research
and
ALASTAIR BAXTER
1935
ARTHUR BARKER LIMITED
aI GARRICK STREET
LONDON
First Published • 1935
Printed in Great Britain by Bader BeTanner Ltd., Frame and London
ARTHUR BARKER’S COMPANION SERIES
A Series of superior Reference-Books and Subject-Encyclopaedias
(in alphabetical order) in D em y 8vo at various prices.
General E ditor: E R IC P A R T R ID G E , M .A .; B .L itt., Oxon.
No. i. A D IC T IO N A R Y O F R E L IG IO N AN D R E LIG IO N S
by
R IC H A R D IN CE
9s. net
Including ecclesiastical terms, biographies of great religious
leaders, an account of the Oriental religions, and a long essay
on Religion itself.
No. 2. A S U R V E Y O F T H E OCCU LT
edited by
JU L IA N F R A N K L Y N
ios. 6d. net
Other volumes of this series, which is to comprise about a
hundred works, will follow at the rate of five or six a year—
either two or three in each of the tw o publishing seasons.
PREFACE
There are several encyclopaedias of the occult, but there has
existed none that is abreast of modem science and modem
psychology: this is the gap which the publishers have aimed
to fiU.
Although the five contributors have attempted, not to
achieve exhaustive comprehensiveness, but to present the case
for enlightenment, yet they hope that this volume will, as a
reference-book, serve all practical purposes.
The credit for suggesting the scope of this work is Alastair
Baxter’s ; that for determining the manner of treatment,
Julian Franklyn’s. I should also like to thank Dr. Budd,
Mr. Mozley, and Mr. Soal (with all of whom I once had the
pleasure of being a colleague at Queen Mary College, University
of London) for rallying so generously to the cause of intelligent
enlightenment. E. P.
September 3, 1935.
London.
%
V
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS
Alchemy : by Alastair Baxter...............................Pages 2-34
Astrology : by Julian Franklyn . . . . 36-45
Black Magic : by Julian Franklyn . . . . 48-59
Buddhist Occultism : by Julian Franklyn . . 61-66
Chinese Occultism : by Julian Franklyn . . 68-75
Devil worship : by Julian Franklyn . . . 78-82
English Literature and the Occult : by F. E. Budd . 84-95
Fairies : by Julian Franklyn...................................... 95-99
Ghosts : by Julian Franklyn............................... 102-109
History of Occult Ideas : by Julian Franklyn . 112-143
Illusion and Hallucination : by Julian Franklyn . 144—
149
Indian Occultism : by Julian Franklyn . . . 150-155
Literature of Occultism : by Julian Franklyn . 159-170
Moslem Occultism : by Julian Franklyn . . . 179-185
Occultism in Ancient Greece and Rome ; by J. H.
M o z le y ...................................................... 187-192
Psycho-Therapy and Psychic Phenomena : by Julian
Franklyn...................................................... 196-206
Spiritualism : by S. G. S o a l............................... 213-268
The Vampire : by Julian Franklyn. . . . 272-278
The Werewolf : by Julian Franklyn . . . 279-282
White Magic : by Julian Franklyn. . . . 283-289
Witchcraft : by Julian Franklyn . . . . 289-300
Alchemy Alchemy
ALCHEM Y
Etym ology
§ i. Divergent views are held concerning the etymology of the
term alchemy. According to Sir Wallis Budge, the eminent Egypt­
ologist, it is derived from khemein, an Egyptian word meaning “ the
preparation of the black ore or powder " used in transmutations.
Another writer asserts that the art owes its name to the fact that
Egypt was once known as Khem—the country of dark soil and home
of chemistry. To this name was added the Arabic article al, “ the,"
and so the hermetical art became known as al-khem and later to the
Western world as alkhemie—a likely explanation. A third writer
claims that " alchemy " has its root in the Greek word meaning " to
pour out " or " mix." (See especially Professor Weekley, Etymo­
logical Dictionary of Modern English.)
Origin o f Alchemy
§ 2 . There is abundant evidence to prove that the ancient Egyptians
were thoroughly skilled in the arts of metallurgy, enamelling, dyeing,
and glass-tinting; and were fully conversant with the use of mercury
in the process of separating gold and silver from the native matrix.
Arising out of this process, there was created an oxide for which one
claimed wonderful properties. This oxide became mystically identi­
fiedwith the god Osiris, and was regarded with superstitiousreverence.
In addition to its power of transmuting base metals into gold or silver,
it was said to be a very potent agent in the healing of all diseases and
to have rejuvenating powers also. The ideas surrounding the
Philosophers' Stone may have developed from this. As to whether
the transmutation of base metals into gold or silver was successfully
performed by the ancient Egyptians no proof is available. But
they certainly possessed a very sound practical knowledge of what
we term " synthetic chemistry." And in the manufacture of gold
alloys and artificial precious stones they were remarkably proficient.
In his Les Origines d’Alchimie, the late Professor Berthelot drew
attention to a papyrus of workshop recipes found in the tomb of an
Egyptian mummy, and he quoted the statement made by John of
Antioch that Diocletian had ordered all Egyptian works on the
subject of gold-making to be burnt. Yet, despite all this, some writers
claim that alchemy was known inChinainremote ages: long before
the rest of the world knew the art. In a treatise on alchemy, written
by the Chinese philosopher Pao P'u. Tzu, who lived in the 4th
century a.d., three important alchemical processes are outlined.
1 . The preparation of a liquid gold ensuring longevity.
2 . The production of artificial cinnabar, the life-giving red pigment,
for use in gold-making.
3 . The transmutation of base metals into gold.
§ 3 . Later on (it was in the 10th century), practical alchemy in
China became merged in mysticism: the souls or essences of copper,
mercury, and sulphur bearing much the same relationship to other
metallic substances as the Taoist or adept bears to ordinary mortals,
2
Alchemy Alchemy
Towards the end of the nth century, various parts of the human
body were associated with formulas for transmutation. In their
striking resemblance to the beliefs held by European alchemists,
these ideas appear to have a common origin. Possibly trading ships
brought the knowledge of alchemy from Egypt to China, although
it is said that all the ideas concerning the Philoscmhers' Stone, or
Stone of Wisdom as the Taoists called it, are purely Chinese in origin.
On the other hand, it has been argued that Babylon, the home of
magic in the ancient world, first discovered alchemy. Alexandria,
too, has been named as its birthplace. An Indian writer 1 on the
subject states that the art was first studied about 1 ,950,000,000 years
ago! Nevertheless, in spite of all these conflicting opinions, it is
now generally assumed that alchemy was first practised in Egypt
and transmitted to Europe via Spain through the agency of trading
vessels, picking up on its way fresh knowledge from other countries
such as India and China. Greek scientific thought at Alexandria
also added its quota. Spain, from the 9th to the nth century,
became the home of alchemy. Robert of Chester, who, along with
Hermann of Carinthia, had been engaged upon the translation of
the Koran at Toledo in 114 3 , is credited with having, in 114 4 , trans­
lated the first work on alchemy from the Arabic.
§ 4 . But unfortunately this manuscript has not survived. The
earliest collections in existence date from the second half of the
13 th century. In western Europe very little was known about
alchemy until the 12 th century, while numerous small laboratories
in England, France and Germany sprang into existence in the next
century, and a large number of treatises were written at this period.
In the Middle Ages Germany seems to have become the centre of
alchemical knowledge in Europe, and gave birth to the mystical
type of alchemist—men such as Khunrath, Maier and Boehme.
Yet throughout the ages the basic principles underlying the hermetic
art have remained unchanged. Much that is puzzling in alchemy
becomes dear if we grasp the theory held by the alchemists: that
metals possess both a body and a soul like mankind.
§ 5 . It is constantly affirmed, too, in symbolical language that
Nature always intended to produce gold; the existence of inferior
metals is ascribed to arrested development owing to unsuitable
environment. Chiefly owing to the operations of numerous quacks
and charlatans who exploited the art for finandal gain, alchemy fell
into disrepute towards the end of the 17 th century. But interest in
the doctrine of transmutation was revived during the 19 th century,
when the late Sir William Ramsay announced that he transmuted
copper into lithium. The discovery of the phenomena of radio­
activity and the disintegration of certain elements have definitely
proved that some transmutations do occur. A new school sprang
into existence, with positive alchemy (which rules out supernatural
causes) as the basis of its teaching.
S 6 . A society named 1/Association Alchimiste de France was
1 Dr. Bhudeb Mookerji, M.A., author of Rasa-Jala-Nidhi: Ocean of Indian
Alchemy,
3
Alchemy Alchemy
founded in France with Paris as its headquarters. Many distin­
guished people were numbered amongst its members, including
Camille Flammarion, the great astronomer. Dr. S. H. Emmens
was, later on, admitted to membership. This society met annually,
and carefully investigated and discussed all claims in positive
alchemy, or what is better understood as chemical science.
§ 7 . M. Jolivet Castelot, who became a president of the society,
definitely stated on one occasion that he had transmuted silver into
gold. He mixed twenty-two grains of silver with three grains of
orpiment (native yellow sulphuret of arsenic) and fused them together
at a high temperature for about threequarters of an hour, this process
being repeated for a few minutes at intervals, with further additions
of orpiment. After this mass had cooled, it was subjected to the
action of pure sulphide of antimony for five minutes. This caused
the whole to turn a dark yellow and exhibit all the properties of gold.
§ 8. A Japanese professor claimed, some years ago, that by puri­
fying brass twenty-eight times he had produced gold.
§ 9 . Dr. Bhudeb Mookerji, an authority on Indian alchemy,
asserts that transmutation can be effected in the following manner.
A piece of lead is rubbed for six hours with pharabahâ or bibhitake
wood, and afterwards mixed with certain juices and ignited and
re-treated 108 times, when the lead will be reduced to “ ashes." A
portion of these " ashes " mixed with copper will create silver, and,
with the addition of more " ashes," will create gold. Tiffereau, a
Frenchman, claimed that he had changed silver into gold by means
of a combined treatment of nitric acid and solar rays. All these
claims may or may not be genuine, but efforts have been made by
scientists to repeat these transmutations; without success—if we
except the experiments carried out by Sir William Rutherford in
breaking up the nitrogen atom. Strictly speaking, there is a wide
difference between the Hermetic Art and Modern Science, particu­
larly so when we go into details.
Physical Aspect o f Alchem y
§ 10. Aristotle propounded the theory that earth, air, fire ,and
water composed tne four chief elements. These four elements were
associated with three principles, sulphur, mercury and salt ; and out
of this association countless forms and combinations of matter were
created. The Aristotelean theory gave way gradually to the doctrine
of “ phlogiston " : which taught that a fiery essence permeated ail
combustible substances. Other principleswereintroduced to support
this theory—the main idea of which was that when a body was
heated, a wonderful essence entered into it, and that, on cooling,
this essence escaped.
§ n . Later on, more accurate knowledge based uponthe researches
of Lavoisier and Priestley showed the utter falsity of these crude
notions. But amongst the ancient alchemists the Aristotelean theory
died hard. Seven metals were known to them, namely, gold,
silver, coppjer, iron, tin, lead, andzinc ; and they were also acquainted
with arsenic, bismuth, mercury, and sulphur. They held the idée
4
Alchemy Alchemy
fixe that all metals grew from seed in the ground like organic matter.
Nature aimed to produce gold, the perfection of all metals, but very
often, owing to unsuitable environment, this design was frustrated.
§ 12. To quote one1 of the alchemists : “ All metallic seed is the
seed of gold: for gold is the intention of Nature with regard to all
metals. If the base metals are not gold, it is only through some
accidental hindrance : they are all potentially gold/'
§ 13. The intensive studies of the alchemists were directed towards
wresting from Nature what was regarded as one of her greatest
secrets, and towards acquiring the power of creating within a short
space of time what takes centuries to accomplish in the natural
order of evolution. They spent lifetimes, in addition to fortunes,
trying to solve this great problem, and although several of them
claimed to have performed the miracle of transmutation, these claims
are not substantiated. Yet in their picturesque conception of “ The
Soul of the World,”— a phrase they coined to describe that Divine
Spirit or Essence which they believed to pervade all matter,—they
certainly grasped the fundamental truth of the cosmos—what is
termed “ radio-activity ” by modem scientists. And in their simple
attempts to define the nature of matter, they approached pretty near
to Dalton's theory that the atomic structure of all matter is closely
akin.
§ 14. To a large extent, modem science confirms some of the ideas
held by the alchemists. A recent writer says: “ Man in spirit,
body and mind is one with physical nature. . . . Spirit is no
external, isolated thing, but is reality itself ; inherent in all matter,
animate or inanimate.” The majority of the alchemists appear to
have grasped certain truths, and then distorted them to fit in with
their fantastical theories concerning metals. Modem science does
not reject the possibility of transmutation of metals—theoretically;
but until a way is found of breaking up the atom it will remain—
just a theory. Students of the occult may find fault with us for
introducing modem science, but we feel that the subject of alchemy
would be incomplete without a comparison with its present-day
counterpart. Indeed, a distinguished American professor 2 goes so
far as to say that radiummay ultimately prove to be the Philosopher's
Stone : ” In a way, radium possesses the first and principal property
ascribed to the Philosophers' Stone ; it has the power of transmuting
elements—if not metals. And even in its second property of being
a valuable aid in the curing of diseases, radium seems to be closely
related to its fabulous predecessor. So in a very remarkable degree,
radium reproduces the twofold effects of the Philosophers' Stone—
transmutation and healing.”
§ *5* Belief in the immutability of the elements has waned in
scientific circles : the day is not far distant when the transmutation
1 " Eirenaeus Philalethes ” — supposed by some writers to be George Starkey,
a reputed alchemist of the 16th century; by others to be Thomas Vaughan,
the mystic.
tt q ^ “^th, non-resident lecturer in chemistry at Cornell University,
w.S.A.
5
Alchemy Alchemy
of metals will be accomplished, and the dream of the ancient
alchemists become a reality. Why not ? Science has made
enormous progress within the past half-century; in fact, it has
performed and is still continuing to perform far greater miracles
than that of transmutation. At one time it was commonly believed
that some vital force was required to produce the molecules of which
living bodies are formed. To-day all kinds of phenomena attributed
to this so-called vital force are being traced to ordinary processes of
physics and chemistry.
M ystical Aspect o f Alchemy
% 16. Although it cannot be denied that modem chemistry owes
its beginning to the practical labours of the ancient alchemists and
not to their mystical beliefs; nevertheless, relating to these beliefs,
there are certain peculiar facts which cannot be explained in purely
physical terms. The alchemists were often abused, even persecuted,
tor introducing into their works so much religious imageiy expressed
in symbolical language. Yet we must concede that a high sense of
sincere veneration often inspired these allegorical conceptions, many
of which are beautiful. They reveal the profound earnestness with
which the alchemists approached the subject. In the light of modem
science, many of the theories advanced by the alchemists appear
childish or even absurd. But it must not be forgotten that these
early pioneers lived in an age when superstition was rife, and belief
in the powers of the supematual almost universal. Viewed in a
correct perspective, alchemy was a curious blend of religion, occult
philosophy and natural science, carried out by deep-thinlang, learned
men who implicitly believed in the truth of their theories concern­
ing the nature of matter and things spiritual. Nearly all of them
belonged to some religious order or other, and this probably explains
much of the mystical language employed in their writings. The
majority of these men lived the lives of ascetics while they pursued
their experiments ; uplifted by the idea that eventually their strict
adherence to Christian principles would result in their efforts being
rewarded with the Great Secret.
§ 17. They thoroughly believed that by a prescribed series of
purifying courses Man could be purged of gross materialism and
thus allow his spiritual nature to ascend into those realms of the
Divine where nothing is hidden from the eyes of the adept, and
that, by an analogous method, base metals also could be cleansed
and freed from the impure matter which prevented them from be­
coming pure gold or silver. Alongside of the material aspect there
was, ever-present, the idea of a moral and spiritual regeneration of
mankind. To quote Basil Valentine: 0 First there should be the
invocation of God, flowing from the depths of a pure and sincere
heart, and a conscience which should be free from all ambition,
hypocrisy, and vice, as also from all cognate faults, such as arrogance,
pride, boldness, luxury, worldly vanity, oppression of the poor, and
similar iniquities, which should all be rooted up out of the heart
so that when a man appears before the Throne of Grace, to regain
Alchemy Alchemy
the health of his body, he may come with a conscience weeded of
all tares and be changed into a pure temple of God cleansed of all
that defiles."
$ 18. The writings of the alchemists are highly symbolical. Gold
and Silver are represented as the King and Queen: Mercury is
depicted as a winged and bearded Hermaphrodite : Sulphur as the
Flying Eagle: Salt as the Winged Dragon: molten metals are
Lions of various hues. And the Work was symbolized in its entirety
by the Pelican or the Phoenix. Astrological signs were also intro­
duced to denote the seven metals. Gold was the Sun ; Silver, the
Moon or Luna; Iron was Mars ; Tin was Jupiter; Lead, Saturn;
and so on.
§ 19. Athanor was the name given to the furnace in which the
alchemists heated their crucibles; Azoth or Od to the Astral Light
or Secret Fire supposed to be used in the Athanor. Eliphas Levi
said that this Secret Fire was really electricity equilibrated by
magnetic force which was concentrated in the Athanor by the
operator. The Grand Arcanum was synonymous with the Great
Work—the actual creation of the human Word initiated into the
power of the Word of God Himself. The Great Agent represented
universal magical power, the Astral Light or Secret Fire already
referred to : the living and philosophical fire. According to Levi,
the Hermetic Art was essentially a magical operation, the highest
of all, for it presupposes the absolute in science and in volition,
and uses chemistry only as a secondary instrument. The Philo­
sophers' Stone which is so often mentioned in alchemical writings
was the miracle-working substance that would in a short period of
time transmute base metals into gold or silver. It was also called
the Powder of Projection: The Tincture: the Stone of Wisdom
(Chinese): the Stone of Live Metal (Burmese): etc. The Red
Stone and the White Stone of the philosophers, stones referred to
in numerous works on alchemy, possessed distinctive powers. The
Red Stone would transmute base metals into gold: while the White
Stone, also known as the White Daughter of the philosophers, had
the power of conferring immunity from disease, if a small dose were
taken. To find the Philosophers' Stone was the grand aim of the
hermetic art: the supreme quest to which hosts of learned men of
science and religion dedicated their whole lives. It was really the
search for the Absolute: the true Salt, the true Mercury, and the
true Sulphur of the philosophers. To quote Levi,— “ For the
Absolute is that which admits of no errors; it is the fixation of the
volatile ; it is the immutable law of reason and truth—the Absolute
Reason which is essential to being." Elaborate instructions are
given in alchemical works on how to prepare the Philosophers*
Stone, but they are mostly unintelligible in any physical sense.
§ 20. Paracelsus alone appears to have endeavoured to guide his
disciples into the right path. An examination of his writings trans­
lated by A. E. Waite reveals that three oils, the oil of sulphur, the
oil of mercury, and the oil of copper, are essential to make the
otone. These three oils must be crystallized and fused together to
7
Alchemy Alchemy
form the Stone. In the section entitled Modem Alchemy, an
account1 is given of how two American alchemists followed out
the instructions of Paracelsus and succeeded in preparing both the
Red and the White Stone of the philosophers.
The Alchemists
§ 21. In the ranks of the ancient alchemists are to be found not
only impostors and charlatans of the type of Comte de Cagliostro,
who thoroughly exploited the weakness and credulity of their dupes:
but also men of the highest standing, men absolutely honest and
profoundly sincere in their efforts to solve the mighty problem of
transmutation. The difficulty of this problem was not lessened by
the primitive nature of the apparatus used by these early chemists.
Yet in their blind gropings, in their weird experimenting with every
conceivable kind of matter, they unlocked many doors and made
many new discoveries in chemical science, all of far greater value,
be it said, than that secret which they so highly prized, so ardently
pursued.
Hermes Trismegetus
§ 22. Hermes Trismegetus, an Egyptian who is said to have lived
in the time of Moses, is considered to be the founder of the art of
alchemy. His name has supplied us with a synonymous term for
the art, Hermetic, meaning “ closed" or “ concealed." According
to numerous writers, Hermes is the materialistic conception of the
Egyptian god of science and learning, Thoth. Whether he was a
mythical personage or not, several works on alchemy are attributed
to him, the most important being The Divine Pymander and The
Golden Tractate. Both of these are written in that mystical language
which constitutes so marked a feature in nearly all alchemical works.
Alexander the Great is supposed to have discovered the tomb of
Hermes in a cave near Hebron. The tomb contained an emerald
tablet, now famous as the Smaragdine Tablet, upon which was
engraved, in ancient Phoenician characters, what is generally con­
sidered to be the essence or basic doctrine of alchemy. “ Thou
shalt separate the earth from the fire, the subtle from the gross,
gently, with great industry. It rises from earth to heaven, and it
receives the power of things above and of things below. By this
means shalt thou obtain the glory of the whole world, and all dark­
ness shall depart from thee. It is the strong power of every power,
for it will overcome all that is subtle and penetrate all that is solid.
Thus was the world created."
Geber the Arab
§ 23. Geber or Jaber, also known as Abou Moussah Djafar, is
held to be the first practical alchemist. He lived in or about the
years 720-50 and is said to have been a native of Haman, in Meso­
potamia. Although little is known concerning his life, yet there
1 This account is entitled Elixir of Life, although it might be considered as
belonging to Rejuvenation,
8
Alchemy Alchemy
is little, or no doubt, as to his knowledge of alchemy. He seems
to have experimented largely in metallurgy and in chemistry for
the purpose of discovering the true nature of metals; and it is of
interest to note that he did discover such important things as nitric
acid, oxide of mercury and some other chemicals. It is, then,
hardly astonishing that numerous treatises have been fathered on
him, but they are mostly suspected to have been written by a pseudo­
alchemist who assumed his name. Two books, written in Latin,
Summa Perfectionis (The Sum of Perfection) and D e Investigatione
Perfections Metallorum [Investigation into the Perfection of Metals),
are his most important works, a complete edition of which was
published in the Bibliotheca Chemica Curiosa of Magnetus at Cologne
in 1702. The late Professor Berthelot, to whom we owe the publica­
tion of many of the treatises written by the early alchemists, pub­
lished in 1906 a large portion of a work attributed to Geber, Liber
DivinitatisdeSeptuaginta (a treatise in seventy parts). Geber pro­
fesses to draw his inspiration from earlier writers on the subject;
but as alchemy was then in a primitive stage, this appears unlikely.
We are informed by Geber that only by strict adherence to natural
laws can success in alchemy be attained. The construction of the
athanor or philosophical furnace is explained in detail, along with
a description of the philosopher's vessel, but these details are un­
intelligible. It is interesting to add here that Dr. Johnson attributed
the origin1 of the word “ gibberish ” to the author of Summa
Perfectionis because the work contains so much jargon. It is also
worthy of note that there is no mention of supernatural aid being
required to accomplish the various alchemical processes. Geber
not only believed that gold was the perfection of all metals; but
also held the idea that all metals except gold possessed a dual nature,
that is, each metal has an inner nature with properties diametrically
opposite to those of its outer nature. Lead in its interior is gold,
and copper is silver, and this inner nature should be educible by
correct methods. This theory of Geber’s contrasts violently with
the mercury-sulphur-salt theory held by later alchemists. Geber
also believed, like Bacon, that potable gold (i.e. gold dissolved in
nitro-hydrochloric acid or aqua regia) was the Elixir of Life. His
practical knowledge of chemistry appears to have been considerable,
judging by the innumerable compounds and processes he describes.
Professor Berthelot sought to prove that Summa Perfectionis was
not one of the true writings of Geber, but a forgery executed at a
much later date.
M ichael Scot
§24. Michael Scot (1175-1234), astrologer, magician, and al­
chemist, is mentioned by Dante in his 0 Inferno,” and by Sir Walter
Scott in “ The Lay of the Last Minstrel." Boccaccio also mentions
him. Scot studied at Oxford University and afterwards in Paris.
After residing in Bologna and Palermo, he settled for a time in
Toledo for the purpose of studying Arabic, a language which he
1Said to be erroneous.
A
S.Q. p
Alchemy
Alchemy
mastered. He then visited Sicily, where he became attached to
the court of Ferdinand II as court astrologer. In 1223 Pope
Honorius III wrote to the Archbishop of Canterbury asking him to
procure an English living for Scot. It is recorded that the Arch­
bishopric of Cashel in Ireland was offered to him, but declined on
account of his ignorance of the Erse language. Scot returned to
England in 1230, bringing with him the works of Aristotle, which
were then unknown in this country. Local tradition at Melrose
claims that Scot died there in his old age and was buried in the
neighbourhood. He wrote several works on the subjects of magic,
natural philosophy, and alchemy.
Albertus Magnus
§ 25. Albertus Magnus was bom at Lauringen or Larvingen on
the Danube about 1193. He was stupid as a boy, but in later years
became one of the most brilliant men of his time. A vision of the
Madonna having appeared to him, he decided to enter the clerical
profession ; he joined the Dominican Order. He taught publicly in
Paris and other places and was made Bishop of Ratisbon; a post
he resigned within a few years to retire to a house in Cologne, where
he devoted himself to the study of science and philosophy. Albertus,
however, did not escape the charge usually levelled at all alchemists
in those days, of being in league with the devil and acquainted with
the black art. According to Maier, Albertus did succeed in dis­
covering the Philosopher's Stone, and shortly before his death
handed it to Thomas Aquinas, the celebrated Dominican, who was
one of his pupils, and who probably gained his alchemistic knowledge
from Albertus. It seems odd that Albertus himself does not, in
his numerous works, confirm this discovery of the Stone; but he
does tell of gold which an alchemist had created by transmutation,
and which successfully passed all tests. Whether this account is
true or not, Albertus was regarded as a great scientist, although
the authenticity of several works bearing his name has been ques­
tioned. He died about the year 1280.
Thomas Aquinas
§ 26. Thomas Aquinas, one of the greatest scholars and theologians
of his day, was educated in his youth by the monks of Monte Cassino
and later by the University of Naples. At the age of seventeen
he joined the Society of Preaching Friars. On learning this, his
mother tried to persuade him to change his mind, but in vain. So
she got his two brothers to waylay him near Paris. They carried
him back to his home, the castle of Aquino, where they kept him
in close confinement for two years. Then he escaped, with the
assistance of some of his former Dominican friends. St. Thomas
Aquinas (he was canonized after his death) exceeded all men in
religious fervour and became known as the Seraphic Doctor. As
previously stated, he studied under Albertus Magnus, and it is said
that his profound knowledge of the occult arts was acquired from
this teacher. A story told concerning Aquinas is that he was so
10
Alchemy
A lc h e m y
much irritated by the noise of horses exercising on the road beneath
his study window, that he made a small brass image of a horse
according to certain laws of magic, and buried this underneath the
road. Afterwards, in spite of being coaxed and whipped, no horse
would pass along this road, and the grooms were compelled to
exercise them elsewhere. Although many of the alchemical works
attributed to him are regarded as spurious, he is credited with having
coined the term “ amalgam ” to describe the alloying of mercury
with other metals.
Roger Bacon
§ 27. Roger Bacon, the most famous of the English alchemists,
first saw the light of day near Ilchester in Somerset about 1214.
In his boyhood he revealed something of the brilliant qualities he
truly possessed. He studied mathematics and science at Oxford
and in Paris, and turned his attention to theology also. On his
returnfromParis, he became interestedin philosophy and astronomy;
indeed, it is said that the telescope came into being through his
knowledge of lenses. His experiments with nitre entitled him to a
large share in the doubtful distinction of having invented gunpowder.
Bacon considered that in experimental science lay the best method
of checking results by mathematical processes ; a theory which led
to more important discoveries. In various ways, he anticipated
ideas held by modern scientists. He stated, for example, that
radiant force can proceed independently of man's power to perceive
it. This theory has been fulfilled in astonishing fashion by the
discovery of the X-rays. He predicted boats propelled without oars,
cars moving without horses, and even flying-machines. Many
valuable discoveries in chemistry are due to Bacon's researches.
In his alchemical studies, he formed the opinion that by the aid of
the Philosopher’s Stone, gold could be purified to a high degree;
and that by the same agency, disease could be banished and life
prolonged far beyond the ordinary span of human existence. Un­
fortunately, these opinions caused the brethren of St. Francis, an
order he had entered in his youth, to regard him as a sorcerer, and
they expelled him. He returned to Paris, but was forbidden to
write by Pope Clement IV until 1266, when this ban was removed.
Bacon, despite great poverty, completed his Opus M ajus, Opus
M inus, and Opus Tertium, works which so pleased Pope Clement
that he allowed him to return to Oxford to continue his studies.
He began writing a book on philosophy, but again incurred the
wrath of his rulers, for he was seized and cast into prison, where he
remained fourteen years. He died in 1294. Bacon thoroughly
believed in the Mercury-Sulphur theory, and that Nature intended
to make Gold of all metals.
Arnold de VUlanova
5 28. Arnold de Villanova, physician and alchemist, was bom
about the middle of the 13th century. There is a degree of un­
certainty regarding his birthplace, but it has been assumed that he
11
Alchemy Alchemy
was brought up near Paris. At any rate, he studied medicine at
the Sorbonne, which in medieval times was the centre for all
physicians in Europe. He was on the point of settling down in
Paris when he heard that a friend had been seized by the Inquisition
and he fled to Naples. Villanova lived for some time in Naples
studying and writing several treatises of a scientific nature. At a
later date he received the appointment of physician-in-ordinary to
Pope Clement V and passed the rest of his life in Rome. His great
interest in alchemy having become widely known, he was suspected
of being a sorcerer, and but for the intervention of the Pope he would
have been severely dealt with by the authorities. Whatever faults
Villanova may have possessed, there is no doubt about his religious
zeal. He died in or about the year 1310, and shortly after his death
the Inquisition ordered certain of his manuscripts to be burnt.
Arnold de Villanova reveals considerable knowledge of chemistry
in his existing works, the most important of which are the Speculum
Alchemiae Perfectum and the Rosarium Philosophorum. An edition
of his works was issued in 1520, while other treatises of his are
contained in the Bibliotheca Chemica Curiosa of Magnetus, 1702.
Raymond Lully or Raimon Lull
§ 29. Raymond Lully was the son of a Spanish nobleman owning
an estate in the island of Majorca, where Raymond was bom in
1230. In his youth he was rather wild; history records how he
became infatuated with a married woman, an infatuation which
suddenly ended when he learned that this lady was suffering from
cancer. So shocked was Lully by this affair that he decided to
become chaste and to enter the Church. But the inactivity of a
monastic existence soon palled, and he proceeded to study Arabic
with a view to embarking upon a mission to convert the Mussulmans
to Christianity. Failing to secure the Papal consent to this scheme,
he set out on his own for Tunis, where he launched his campaign,
but was fiercely persecuted and finally banished. He returned to
Europe, his ardour undaunted, and secured the assistance of many
devout Christians to support him in a fresh expedition. Then he
ventured as far as Algiers, but was soon compelled to retreat again
to Tunis, where he was imprisoned. He lay in prison a long time,
until some merchants secured his release and took him back to Italy.
But Lully was determined to succeed in his self-appointed task and
landed in Tunis again, only to be brutally attacked and so severely
injured that he died shortly afterwards in 1315. Although he had
never obtained the Pope's consent to his missions, many people
were so filled with admiration for his religious zeal that they sought
to have him canonized, but without success. The reason for the
Pope's refusal was that Lully had interested himself in alchemy.
Yet it is maintained that Lully's only purpose in studying the
alchemical art was the laudable one of obtainingfunds for his missions.
Whatever the motive, his writings on the subject were voluminous,
the three most notable of his works being, D e Secretis M edicina
M agna, D e Conservatione Vitae and Alchemia M agic Naturalis. A
12
Alchemy
Alchemy
great number of treatises attributed to Lully are generally considered
to be forgeries.
Peter Bonus
§ 30. Peter Bonus, an English alchemist who lived in the 14th
century, but about whom there is little information, left a manuscript
on the subject entitled “ Magarita Pretiosa,” which was translated
by Mr. A. E. Waite in 1894. “ Each metal/' according to Bonus,
" differs from all the rest, and has a certain perfection and complete­
ness ofits own. But none, exceptgold, hasreachedthat highestdegree
of perfection of which it is capable. For all common metals there is
a transient and a perfect state of inward completeness, and this
perfect state they attain either through the slow operation of Nature,
or through the sudden transformatory power of our Stone. We
must add, however, that the imperfect metals form part of the great
plan and design of Nature, through they are*in course of transforma­
tion into gold. For a large number of very useful and indispensable
tools and utensils could not be provided at all if there were no copper,
iron, tin, or lead, and if all metals were either silver or gold. For
this beneficent reason Nature has furnished us with the metallic
substance in all its different stages of development, from iron, or
the lowest, to gold, or the highest state of metallic perfection/1
Very soundviews compared with those of some of the other alchemists.
Nicholas Flamel
§ 31. Nicholas Flamel, bom at Pontoise sometime in 1330, carried
on the trade of a bookseller and had a stall near the columns of
Saint Jacques la Boucherie. Copyists andilluminators worked there ;
and he himself gave a few writing lessons to nobles who could only
sign their names with a cross. Nicholas Flamel had acquired some
knowledge of alchemy, for the hermetic art had penetrated Christian
countries. We are told that he dreamed one night that an angel
stood before him with a book in his hands and said, “ Look well at
this book. At first you will understand nothing in it, neither you
nor any other man. But one day you will see in it that which no
other man will be able to see.” Flamel stretched out his hand
to receive the book, and the whole vision disappeared. Some time
after this a stranger came to the bookseller’s shop with a manuscript
to sell. The manuscript was elaborately bound and illuminated with
curious diagrams and strange characters. Flamel recognized it as
the book he had seen in his dream and paid two florins for it. On
the first page was inscribed the name of the author, Abraham the
Jew, astrologer, andphilosopher. Flamel was more orless acquainted
with symbolical language, but this book baffled him. Twenty-one
years passed, and then a learned old man in Spain helped him to
interpret the strange writings. Flamel returned to Paris, and after
a few experiments he succeeded in transmuting half a pound of
mercury into gold. He became enormously wealthy, but he learnt
how to despise gold for its own sake, only making it to provide
hospitals and almshouses for the poor, or to build churches and
13
Alchemy
Alchemy
convents. Hedied at the age of eighty, spending the last years of
his life studying and writing books on alchemy. After his death
people searched his residence to find some of the projection powder
he used or the vast hoard of gold he was supposed to possess. Flamers
tombstone, which is now in the Musée de Cluny, is typical of this
alchemist. It was made during his lifetime. On this stone, in the
middle of various figures, there is carved a sun above a key and a
closed book. Several works bearing his name are forgeries. His
leading treatise— A Short Tract—is in the Hermetic Museum.
B asil Valentine
§ 32. " Basil Valentine,'* an alchemist about whose actual person­
ality little is known, describes himself as a Benedictine monk in his
most important work, The Triumphal Chariot o f Antimony. In
another of his works (Practica) he tells of his resolve to renounce
the world and enter the service of God. And after entering a
monastery he took up the study of alchemy to pass away the time,
and eventually—so it is said—discovered the Philosopher's Stone.
Valentine speaks in the highest terms of the value of antimonial
preparations and reveals a very expert knowledge of chemistry.
Withinrecent years, his authorship of these works has become suspect.
Gilles de Laval
§ 33. Gilles de Laval, Marshal of France, born about 1420, had
reached the age of twenty when his father died and left him enormous
wealth and power. Gilles, who was handsome and charming in
manner, began to entertain on a huge scale and to indulge in the
wildest extravagances. This conduct soon reduced his immense
resources, so in order to obtain fresh riches he became interested in
alchemy and magic. He fell a prey to unscrupulous charlatans who,
whilst pretending to initiate him into occult mysteries, lived riotously
at his expense. After a year of vain alchemical experiments, Gilles
was persuaded to embark upon a course of Black Magic to secure
the wealth he so ardently desired. It is said that in the performances
of the diabolical Black Mass by Gilles and his associates nearly
one hundred young children were murdered. When his revolting
crimes were discovered Gilles was seized, tried, and condemned to be
burnt at the stake. But on account of his high rank as Marshal he
was strangled before being consigned to the flames. He is credited
with being the original Bluebeard of legend. (See also, and more
importantly, the section on Black Magic.)
Bernard Trévisan
§ 34- Bernard Trévisan, Comte de Marche, Italian alchemist, son
of a physician, bom at Padua in 1406, began to study alchemy
seriously in his youth, and devoted much time to the writings of
Geber. In his anxiety to discover the Philosopher's Stone he became
the prey of numerous charlatans who, under the pretence of initiating
him into the great secret, fleeced him of much wealth. Trévisan's
anger was so roused by their barefaced plundering that he abandoned
Alchemy Alchemy
his studies. But his passion returned stronger than ever, and he
visited Britain, Holland, and Spain, seeking new knowledge and
enlightenment from other devotees of the hermetic art. He even
wandered as far afield as Egypt and Palestine in his quest, but
without success. Finally, owing to his reckless expenditure, he was
compelled to sell his ancestral estates, and retired to the Island of
Rhodes, where he made the acquaintance of a priest, who, according
to tradition, revealed to him the true method of preparing the
Philosopher’s Stone. Trévisan died not long afterwards. An octavo
volume of his writings was published in 1643, called the L e Bernard
d'AUhmague cum Bernard Treviso. It is said that he devoted much
time to prayer, hoping by his piety to gain his desire. Another work
with which this alchemist is credited, namely, La Philosophie Naturelle
des M étaux, is largely of an obscure nature.
Sir George Ripley 1
§ 35. Sir George Ripley was bom in the early part of the 15th
century at Ripley in Yorkshire. After joining the Augustinian
Order he became Canon of Bridlington. His clerical duties did not
prevent him from travelling on the Continent in pursuit of his
alchemical studies. In Rome the Pope bestowed further honours
upon him, and he returned home to retire to a priory near Boston,
where he died in 1490. Ripley is credited with being one of the first
writers to publish the alchemical works of Raymond Lully ; and he
himself wrote a number of treatises on the subject, Medulla Alchim ia
and The Treatise of Mercury being the best known. It is also of
interest to note that Ripley is said to have made a vast amount of
gold, through transmutation, for the knights of St. John of Jerusalem.
A writer,2under the pseudonym of “ Eugenius Philalethes,” wrote a
treatise that Ripley revived in 1678.
Paracelsus
§ 36. One of the greatest and most illuminated minds of the
Middle Ages ! That is how one writer describes Phillippus Aureolus
Theophrastus Bombast of Hohenheim, better known as Paracelsus,
alchemist and mystic. He was bom in 1493 near a village called
Maria-Einsiedeln, not far fromZurich. His father, William Bombast,
had, in his capacity of physician, established himself near the abbey
hospital and eventually married the matron. Paracelsus, their only
child, was in his early youth instructed by his father in the sciences
of surgery, medicine and alchemy. The relations between father
and son were always of a happy nature, and throughout his lifetime
Paracelsus never omitted to refer to his father in the highest terms.
His education was continued afterwards in the monastery of St.
Andrew in the valley of the Savon under the guidance of the bishops.
At the age of sixteen he was sent to the university at Basle. Soon
after his university career, he was initiated into the mysteries of
magic, alchemy and astrology by the Abbot of St. Jacob at Wurzburg,
1 See also Literature of Occultism, { 19.
* Supposed by some to have been Thomas Vaughan ; cf. § 12, note.
15
Alchemy Alchemy
one of the greatest adepts in occult knowledge. It was entirely due
to this teacher that his passion for occultism was brought into
practical use. This same love for the occult sciences caused him to
enter the laboratory of the wealthy Sigismund Fugger, at Schwatz,
a clever alchemist, who probably taught his zealous pupil many
valuable secrets. Later on Paracelsus travelled a good deal, visiting
many European countries. It is said that he even went to India,
where he was taken prisoner by the Tartars and brought before the
Khan ; the latter was so impressed by his knowledge that he gave
him his freedom. No student of the works of Paracelsus can fail
to notice the striking similarity between his system for attaining
adeptship and the systems practised by Eastern adepts. He speaks
of the qualities of the astral body, the earth-bound elementáis and
other things which were unknown at that time to the Western
world. According to Van Helmont, Paracelsus stayed among the
Tartars between 1513 and 1521, and in the latter year came to
Constantinople, where he received the Philosopher's Stone from an
adept in alchemy named Solomon Trismosinus or Pfeiffe, a country­
man of his. It is also claimed that this adept possessedthe Universal-
Panacea or Elixir of Life. And it is further asserted that he had
been seen still alive at the end of the 17th century. (This sounds
something like the story of the Wandering Jew.) In his European
travels Paracelsus collected a vast amount of information, not only
from physicians and alchemists but from gipsies and shepherds.
Having wandered about in this fashion for over ten years, exercising
his skill as a physician or teaching or studying alchemy and magic,
he returned, at the age of thirty-two, to Germany, where he soon
became famous on account of the numerous cures he performed.
He was appointed a professor of physic, medicine and surgery at a
large salary by the Basle City Council in 1527. But a desire to
improve upon the medical science of his time, by denouncing the
teachings of Galen and Avicenna, then regarded as authorities on the
subject, brought him into conflict with the rest of the physicians:
he departed from Basle to resume his wanderings. He died in 1541
at the early age of forty-eight— an event which was eagerly seized
upon by his critics to disprove his claims that he had found the
Philosopher's Stone or the Elixir of Life. A strange figure he will
always remain in the history of alchemy and the occult sciences.
It is said that insobriety was the cause of his early death, but this is
denied by certain writers, who assert that it was a slander invented
by his enemies, as was the suspicion regarding his sex, because he
was proof against the weakness of love. For, to quote Levi, magic
is an instrument of divine goodness or demoniacal pride, but it
always means the annihilation of earthly joys and the pleasures of
mortal life. The truth is, that Paracelsus exhausted himself by his
tremendous efforts to wrest from Nature her most cherished secrets.
Many of the successes in healing performed by Paracelsus were due
to Ms knowledge of magnetism, a knowledge he arrived at long
before Mesmer startled the world with Ms discoveries. His treatise,
entitled The Chemical Pathway or M anual of Paracelsus, is preserved
Alchemy
Alchemy
in the library of the Vatican; and a translation of The Hermetic
and Alchemical W ritings1 of Paracelsus, by Mr. A. E. Waite, in two
volumes, is now available in many public libraries. Paracelsus was
among the first to teach that the chief object of chemistry is not to
make gold but to prepare medicines; and in pursuance of this he
founded the school of Medical Chemistry. The main theme of the
doctrine of Paracelsusis that every bodyis composedof four elements;
and that the essence compounded of these four elements forms a
fifth, which is the “ soul " of the four elements— or its “ mercury "
or “ quintessence." And he describes, in mystical language inter­
woven with astrological signs, some elaborate methods of extracting
this “ quintessence."
John Dee
§ 37. John Dee, English alchemist and mystic, was the son of that
gentleman-in-waiting at the court of Henry VIII who claimed to
be a direct descendant of Roderick, Prince of Wales. He was born
in the year 1527. At the age of fifteen he proceeded to Cambridge,
where, after two years' study, he took his B.A. degree. Later on
he went abroad to study astronomy and other sciences. He resided
for some time in Louvain and Paris and gave lectures on geometry.
In 1551 he returned to England and became Rector of Upton-on-
Sevem, Worcs. Dee had hardly settled down in his new life when
he was accused of trying to take the life of the reigning sovereign,
Queen Mary, by magical means. He was seized and cast into
prison, but he obtained his liberty soon afterwards. Dee appears
to have immediately gone abroad on his release. He was not heard
of again until the reign of Queen Elizabeth, when he returned and
took up residence at Mortlake, where he rapidly won fame as an
astronomer. It is said that on the appearance of a comet, Queen
Elizabeth paid him a visit to hear his opinion regarding it. Dee
became absorbed in the study of crystallomancy, and between this
art, alchemy and astronomy, he seems to have divided his time.
He began to record his occult experiences in a diary and, under the
date of November, 1582, he relates how he beheld the vision of the
angel Uriel. Dee appears to have fallen a victim to self-delusion
as a result of his studies. In this state of mind he engaged a man
named Kelley to assist him in his work. Edward Kelley, a native of
Lancashire and a person who had gained some sort of a reputation
as an alchemist and sorcerer, was thoroughly unscrupulous and
evidently determined to exploit the weakness of John Dee for his
own base ends. He pretended to see wonderful visions in the crystal,
and Dee, already a victim to his own foolish delusions, fell an easy
g
:ey to this scoundrel; he even recorded these visions in his diary.
dward Kelley claimed to have a document written by St. Dunstan
giving the recipes for the preparation of the Red and the White
Stone of the Philosophers. In his diary Dee mentions a transmuta­
tion performed by Kelley on 19 December 1586. And in another
entry made on 10 May 1588, Dee says, " Edward Kelley did open
1 See Modem Alchemy at end of section.
17
A lc h e m y
Alchemy
the great secret to me, God be thanked." John Dee and his assistant
next became acquainted with a Polish nobleman named Laski, who
took them with him to his estate in Poland to initiate him into the
secrets of alchemy. In 1589 Kelley was imprisoned by the Emperor
Rudolph because he would not reveal the secret of transmutation.
He died in 1595, owing to an accident incurred while trying to escape.
During his incarceration, Kelley wrote a book entitled The Stone o f
the Philosophers—a work largely consisting of quotations from other
alchemical treatises. John Dee died in 1608. His principal con­
tribution to alchemical literature consists of a work published in
1576. It is entitled A n Account of The Manner in which a certain
Coppersmith in the Land of Moores and a certayn Moore transmuted
Copper to Gold.
A
T
. Khunrath
§ 38. Heinrich Khunrath, physician, alchemist and mystic, was
bom in Saxony round about the year 1560. At the age of twenty-
eight he graduated in medicine at Basle University and became a
disciple of Paracelsus. He practised in Hamburg, and later in
Dresden, where he died in poverty in 1601. Although a firm believer
in the physical theory of alchemy, he apparently also recognized its
mystical aspect, for his most outstanding work, Amphitheatrum
Sapientics Mternce, contains folding plates covered with mystical
figures and magical inscriptions. One of the pentacles represents the
Philosopher's Stone erected in the midst of a fortress which is sur­
rounded by a wall containing twenty gates. The right of entry into
this fortress or sanctuary can be obtained through one gate only.
Above the Stone there is a triangle supported by a winged dragon,
and on the Stone itself the name of Christ is engraved. Khunrath
explains this by saying, " It is by Him alone that thou canst obtain
the Universal Medicine." And he further states that every man
who is obsessed by prejudices or fears is incapable of concentrating
or coagulating the Astral Light or soul of the earth.
Michael Sandivogius
§ 39. Michael Sandivogius (or Sendivogius) was bom in Moravia
about the year 1566. He devoted a great part of his life to the study
of alchemy and the quest for the Philosopher's Stone. In 1602 he
was living in Dresden when a Scottish alchemist named Alexander
Seton passing through that city was thrown into prison by the young
Elector, Christian II, who, in order to extort the inner secrets of
alchemy from him, put him to the torture, but without success.
Sandivogius secured permission to visit Seton and offered to assist
him to escape if he would lend his aid in the pursuit of the alchemical
art, to which proposal Seton gladly agreed. Sandivogius expended
large sums of money in bribes to effect Seton's escape from prison ;
but although grateful, Seton steadfastly refused to reveal the arch-
secrets of his art to Ins rescuer. Before his death, however, he
relented and gave him about an ounce of the powder for transmuta­
tion. Sandivogius soon exhausted this powder in his transmutation
A lc h e m y
Alchemy
experiments, and it is said he married Seton's widow in the heme
that she possessed the formula for making this powder. But he
was sorely disappointed, for she knew nothing about the subject.
However, she handed him the manuscript of a work written by her
late husband, which was later published at Prague by Sandivogius
as his own composition. It is entitled A New Light of Alchymie,
and considered a valuable contribution to the bibliography of the
Hermetic Art. At the end of this book there appears a treatise on
Sulphur and a glossary of the various terms employed throughout.
These are said to be the genuine contributions of Sandivogius. He
was twice imprisoned and every attempt was made to force him to
divulge the knowledge of alchemy he claimed to possess. There is
no record of his having done so, he on the first occasion escaping,
and on the second securing his release from the Emperor. He died
in 1646. The first part of The New Light of Alchymie deals at length
with the generation of metals. In the tenth treatise of his work
Sandivogius says, " We have treated of things, which Nature makes,
and which God hath made; that the Searchers of Art might the
more easily understand the possibility of Nature. But to delay no
longer, I will now enter upon the Manner, and Art how to make the
Philosopher’s Stone. The Philosopher’s Stone or tincture is nothing
else, but Gold digested to the highest degree: For vulgar Gold is
like an herb without seed, when it is ripe it brings forth seed: so
Gold when it is ripe yields seed, or tincture. But, will some ask,
Why doth not Gold, or any other Metall bring forth seed ? the reason
given is this, because it cannot be ripe, by reason of the crudity of
the aire, it hath not sufficient heat, and it happens, that in some
places, there is found pure Gold, which nature would have perfected,
but was hindered by the crude aire.” So Sandivogius proceeds by
analogy to define how, when the conditions are favourable, Nature
will always produce gold, that being her ultimate aim in all metals.
In the eleventh treatise he reveals how to make the Philosopher's
Stone. “ Take of our earth, through eleven degrees, eleven graines,
of our Gold, and not of the vulgar, one graine of our Lune,1 not the
vulgar, two graines: but be thou well advised, that thou takest
not common Gold and Silver, for these are dead, take ours which
are living: then put them into our fire, and let there be made of
them a dry liquor : first of all the earth will be resolved into water,
which is called the Mercury of the Philosophers: and that water
shall resolve those bodies of Gold, and Silver, and shall consume
them so, that there shall remain but the tenth part with one part;
and this shall be the radicall moisture of Metalls. Then take water
of salt-nitre, which comes from the earth, in which there is a river
of living water, if thou diggest the pit knee deep, therefore take
water out of that, but take that which is deer ; upon this put that
radicall moisture ; and set it over the fire of putrefaction, andgenera­
tion, not on such a one as thou didst in the first operation : govern
all things with a great deal of discretion, until colours appear like a
Peacock’s tail: govern it by digesting it, and be not weary, until
1Silver.
19
Alchemy Alchemy
these colours be ended, and there appears throughout the whole one
green colour, and so of the rest ; and when thou shalt see in the
bottome ashes of a fiery colour, and the water almost red, open the
vessel, dip in a pen, and smear some iron with it, if it tinge, have
in readiness that water, which afterwards I shall speak of, and put
in so much of that water as the cold aire was, which went in, boil
it again with the former fire, until it tinge again. So far reached
my experience, I can doe no more, I found out no more. Now that
water must be the menstruum of the world, out of the sphere of the
Moon, so often rectified until it can calcine Gold : I have been
willing here to discover to thee all things : and if thou shalt under­
stand my meaning1 sometimes, and not the letter, I have revealed
all things : especially in the first and second work. Now it remains
that we speak next of the fire. The first fire, or of the first operation,
is a fire of one degree, continually, which goes round the matter ;
the second is a naturall fire, which digests and fixeth the matter/'
These two extracts from The New Light of Alchymie are thoroughly
typical of the majority of alchemical works. They not only serve
to show how enigmatical and vague the authors were (purposely so,
perhaps) in describing their operations, but also reveal the idée fixe
of the ancient alchemists that Nature always intended to make gold
of all metals, but was often prevented by unfavourable conditions
from executing this design.
Michael Maier
§ 40. Michael Maier, a German, was bom at Rindsberg in 1568.
He studied medicine and was later appointed chief physician to
Emperor Rudolf II. Being attracted to alchemy, he scoured all
Germany to interview people who were credited with possessing
alchemical knowledge ; and spared neither health nor wealth for
this purpose. He published several works on Rosicrucianism and
formed a secret society of his own founded upon the form of the
Fama Fratemibus. It is, however, believed that in his declining
years, he was admitted into the real Order of Rosicrucians. He was
a very learned man and the literature of alchemy is enriched by
numerous works of his, but they abound in allegories of a fantastic
nature. In common with the majority of alchemists, he regarded
mercury with great veneration. In his Lusus Serius, he exalts its
virtues in these words : “ Thou art the miracle, splendour and light
of the world. Thou art the glory, ornament, and supporter of the
Earth. Thou art the Asyle, Anchor and tye of the Universe. Next
to the minde of man, God created nothing more Noble, more
Glorious, or more Profitable."
Jacob Boekme
§ 41* Bom in 1570 Jacob Boehme, the German mystic and
philosopher, was in his youth apprenticed to a shoemaker at
Görlitz in Saxony. While working in his master's shop, we are
1 Sandivogius is obviously referring to the mystical nature of the language
he employs in his treatises.
20
Alchemy Alchemy
told, a stranger spoke to him one day about his spiritual well-being,
and this incident is supposed to have inspired him to devote more
attention to religious matters. So as time went on, he became
deeply interested in all things spiritual. He married in 1594 a
butcher's daughter, who bore him four sons, all of whom he brought
up to follow his own trade. In 1612 he wrote his first work, The
Aurora, containing his visions and theories concerning God. But
a copy of this manuscript happening to fall into the hands of the
authorities of Gorlitz, he was publicly denounced from the pulpit
by the Primate, Gregory Richter, for heresy. In an “ Apology,"
which is really a defence of his views, Boehme says: " You say
that I will search out the Deity and you call it devilish; thereby
you shew your ignorance to the daylight, that you understand
nothing of the Book of Nature, and also do not read the New Testa­
ment, for St. Paul saith, ' The spirit searcheth all things, yea, the
deep things of God.' " He was forbidden to write any more, an
order which he obeyed for six years until the dictates of his mind
led him to disregard this ban. But he was compelled to leave
Gorlitz owing to persecution and to take up residence in Dresden,
where he remained until his death in 1624. His dying words were
“ Now I go hence into Paradise." Boehme's literary output was
prodigious: between the years 1618 and 1624 he wrote no fewer
than thirty-one works, all dealing with mysticism and philosophy.
He had a solution to offer for almost every problem in the natural
as well as the spiritual world; and in the art of alchemy he took
a profound interest, although there is no record of his having
attempted any transmutations. His writings on the subject reveal
an acquaintance with the works qf Paracelsus. Concerning the
preparation of the Tincture or Philosopher's Stone, Boehme states :
“ Unless a man first becomes that which he seeketh therein (gold),
no skill or art availeth." This mystical conception of alchemy
pervades all his writings. Sir Issac Newton and Hegel are both
said to have learned much from this great mystic.
J . B . Van Helmont
§ 42. Jean Baptiste Van Helmont was born in Brussels in 1577.
He studied medicine and chemistry and was regarded as one of the
most brilliant men of his day. Of a religious temperament, in his
alchemical writings he reveals a strong leaning towards mysticism.
His contempt for the pseudo-alchemists is expressed in his caustic
reference to them as a “ diabolical crew of gold and silver sucking
leeches." Yet he himself firmly believed in the transmutation of
metals and claimed to have performed it, in an account said to be
written by him and which can be seen in Geschichte der Alchemie, by
Karl Christopher Schneider, published in 1832. He says: “ For
truly I have divers times seen it,1 and have handled it with my
hands: but it was of colour, such as is in Saffron in its powder,
yet weighty, and shining like powdered glass. There was once
given unto me one-fourth part of one Grain: But I call a grain
1 The Philosopher's Stone.
21
Alchemy
Alchemy
the six-hundredth part of an Ounce. This quarter of one Grain
therefore, being rolled up in Paper, I projected upon eight Ounces
of Quicksilver made hot in a Crucible; and straightway all the
Quicksilver, with a certain degree of Noise, stood still from flowing,
and being congealed, settled like unto a yellow Lump: but after
pouring it out, the Bellows blowing, there were found eight Ounces
and a little less than eleven grains of the purest Gold. Therefore,
only one Grain of that Powder had transchanged 19,186 parts of
Quicksilver, equal to itself, into the best Gold." Van Helmont
goes on to state, like Helvetius, that the Stone was handed to him
by a stranger whom he met one night. But a writer named Figuer
suggests that Van Helmont was deceived through unwittingly using
quicksilver which was really an amalgam of mercury and gold.
One can hardly believe, however, that an expert chemist such as
Van Helmont could make this blunder. True, many of the theories
he propounded were peculiar. For instance, he considered that
water was the first element, out of which all things were created;
and did not believe in the sulphur-mercury theory relating to matter.
Owing to his success in alchemy, he became an ardent supporter
of the art, and when a son was born later, he named him Mercurius.
This son proved to be even more enthusiastic about alchemy than
his sire; for he devoted his whole life to the search for the Philo­
sopher's Stone, and although there is no record of his having found
it, it is said that he died firmly believing in its existence. Like his
father, he had many queer ideas concerning life and matter, and
also believed in metempsychosis—the migration of the soul after
death, through different bodies.
J . F . Helvetius
§43. Johann Frederick Helvetius, who was chief physician to
the Prince of Orange and who bore a high reputation as a chemist,
published a treatise in 1667, entitled— The B rief of the Golden C alf ;
Discovering the Rarest Miracle in Nature. This contained a carefully
detailed, somewhat tedious account of a transmutation performed
by the author at The Hague in the year 1666. Like Van Helmont,
he receives a piece of the Philosopher's Stone from a stranger, and
his description of the Stone tallies with that of Van Helmont. He
relates how, in the absence of his benefactor, he decided to try out
the Stone. “ So I asked my wife to put the Tincture in wax, and
myself, in the meantime, prepared six drachms of lead: I then
cast the Tincture, enveloped in wax, on to the lead: as soon as it
was melted, there was a hissing sound and a slight effervescence,
and after a quarter of an hour I found that the whole mass of lead
had been turned into the finest gold. Before this transmutation
took place, the compound became intensely green, but as soon as
I had poured it into the melting pot it assumed a hue like blood.
When it cooled it glittered and shone like gold." Then he con­
tinues his story of how, the rumour having passed through the city
like wild-fire, many illustrious students of the Art called upon him
to behold this marvel; and the Master of the Mint also visited
22
Alchemy Alchemy
him to request a small piece of the gold for testing purposes. Several
tests were carried out, from which the transmuted lead emerged
triumphant. Helvetius concludes his remarkable narrative by heap­
ing blessings upon the man who gave him a piece of the Philosopher's
Stone. “ May the Holy Angels of God watch over him wherever
he is, and long preserve him as a source of blessing to all Christen­
dom." It is interesting to add, that this account of a transmuta­
tion performed by Helvetius is corroborated by that eminent man,
Baruch Spinoza, the philosopher.
Thomas Vaughan
§ 44. Thomas Vaughan was the younger twin-brother of Henry
Vaughan the Silurist, and was bom in Newton in Brecknockshire
in 1622. He graduated as a B.A. at Jesus College, Oxford, and
became a fellow of the college in 1642. He remained in Oxford
for some years, although he held the living of St. Bridget in his
native parish, from which he was expelled in 1649 upon charges of
immorality and of bearing arms for King Charles. After this, he
appears to have spent his time between his brother's farm at Newton
and a house in London studying alchemy and kindred subjects. Sir
Robert Murray became one of his patrons and Vaughan fled to
Oxford from London with this gentleman during the plague of 1665.
Vaughan continued his alchemical studies and actually met his
death through accidentally inhaling the fumes of mercury at a
friend's house in Albury on 27 February 1666. Vaughan, although
guilty of youthful indiscretions, became deeply religious in his later
years, and his writings are highly mystical. He likened the Philo­
sopher's Stone to the Scriptural Rock in the wilderness: to the
Stone of Fire mentioned in Ezekiel; and to the White Stone bearing
a new name in Revelation. His outstanding works are Anitna
Magica Abscondita, The Antiquitie of Magic, Nollicus' Chemical K ey ,
and A B rief Natural History. Vaughan is also supposed to have
written alchemical treatises under the pseudonym of Eirenaeus
Philalethes.
“ Eirenaeus Philalethes ”
§ 45. Although there is a considerable amount of alchemical writ­
ings in existence bearing this name, the real identity of the author
has never been established. It may have been Thomas Vaughan.
Other writers claim that George Starkey, an empiric, copied some
of Vaughan's writings and published them as his own under the
title, The Marrow of Alchemy, by Eirenaeus Philoponus. Phila­
lethes died about 1660.
Robert Boyle (1627-91)
$4
f>
. Robert Boyle, natural philosopher and alchemist, was bom
at Lismore Castle, in the Province of Munster, Ireland. In his
youth he mastered Latin and French, and after spending three years
at Eton, he travelled abroad with a tutor. Two years were spent
in Geneva, and a visit paid to Italy, where he met Galileo. Return-
23
Alchemy Alchemy
ing to England in 1644, Boyle decided to devote his life to scientific
research and played a prominent part in the proceedings of the
MInvisible College " which later, in 1663, became the Royal Society
of London under a charter granted by Charles II. The law bearing
his name was discovered in 1662. He suffered from failing health
for some years previous to his death in 1691. Robert Boyle is
regarded as the founder of modem chemistry. He was a man of
a patient inquiring mind, and had a passion for facts of scientific
importance. A man who disdained fantastic theories, as witness his
critical remarks concerning "vulgar Spagyrists who are wont to
endeavour to evince their Salt, Sulphur, and Mercury to be the true
Principles of Things " in his work, The Sceptical Chemist, published
in 1661. He throughly believed in the possibility of transmutation
and carried out many experiments. This belief moved him to petition
William of Orange for the repeal of a statute of King Henry IV.,
one that decreed dire penalties upon anyone found guilty of multi­
plying gold, and in this he was successful. Boyle published a
pamphlet in 1672 giving an account of an experiment in alchemy.
This account, somewhat tedious, describes how a mythical personage
named " Pyrophilus " fell in with a mysterious foreigner who had,
in the East, met chemists who were most skilful. And before they
parted, the foreigner handed Pyrophilus a tiny piece of paper con­
taining a dark-red powder about one-eighth of a grain in weight,
accompanied with dark hints as to the wonderful powers possessed
by this substance. With an assistant, Boyle,—who was really
" Pyrophilus,"— afterwards melted two drachms of gold in a crucible
and added the dark-red powder. When the crucible had cooled,
they discovered that the gold had not changed in weight, but was
greatly altered in appearance. It was dirty, and coated with what
Boyle describes as " half-vitrified litharge." This debased gold,
when tested, revealed more silver than gold. Boyle formed the
opinion that this powder possessed the power to transmute a thousand
times its weight in gold. And the account concludes— " I have
not (because I must not doit) as yet acquainted you with the strangest
Effect of our admirable Powder." This account is similar in its
main details to the stories related by other alchemists. In each
instance, the wonder-working substance is obtained in mysterious
fashion and it is all used up in the process of transmutation, leaving
no trace of its original nature for analysis. But applied chemistry
is indebted to Boyle for improved methods and for extended know­
ledge. His writings are voluminous. They were published in five
folio volumes in 1744. Besides being a natural philosopher, Boyle
studied theology, and was regarded as an authority on the subject.
Dr. James Price, F .R .S .
§ 47. Dr. James Price, F.R.S., was bom in London in 1752. He
matriculated at Oxford, and in 1781 his maternal uncle died, leaving
him a considerable fortune. Price, determining to devote his life
to chemical research, purchased a house near Guildford; this he
fitted up with a laboratory. He appears to have turned his atten-
24
Alchemy Alchemy
tion to alchemy and published a pamphlet on the subject in 1782,
This pamphlet reveals that Price had arrived at the same conclusion
as the alchemists of old, that all metals were merely variants of the
same substance. In the presence of several witnesses he performed
a transmutation in his own laboratory in May 1782, using certain
white and red powders. This experiment aroused great public
interest and was succeeded by several others. Even King George III
was shown some of the transmuted metal. Then the Royal Society,
of which Dr. Price was a member, requested definite proof of these
transmutations. Apparently Price was unable to comply with this
request: suffering from a keen sense of disgrace, he committed
suicide by poisoning himself with prussic acid in August 1783.
Dr. S. H. Emtnens
§48. America was startled in 1899 when the New York Herald
announced that a scientist named Dr. S. H. Emmens of New York
had not only succeeded in making gold but had been selling the
manufactured metal to the United States Assay Office for over two
years. " Argentaurum gold/' as its discoverer called it, was not
produced by any alchemical process, but simply created out of
silver, as its name implies. Emmens used as his material Mexican
silver dollars, certified by the United States Mint to contain about
io^ooth part of gold. These coins were placed in a special kind
of press called a force-engine and subjected to constant hammering
while cold air blowing upon them prevented heat from generating.
Several other processes were involved, but according to Emmens,
the mechanical treatment was the causa causans. Sir William
Crookes became interested in the matter and, as the result of some
correspondence between him and Dr. Emmens, he gave the idea a
trial; without success. Emmens pointed out that his failure was
entirely due to the fact that Crookes used pure silver, which does
not contain the slightest trace of gold. An interesting theory pro­
pounded by Dr. Emmens was that gold and silver are closely akin;
that, in the course of natural chemical evolution, silver becomes
transmuted into gold or vice versa ; and that some third substance
exists which was neither gold nor silver.
Was Transmutation Effected?
§ 49. The question has often been asked and may also arise in
the mind of the reader—Did the ancient alchemists ever achieve
their goal ? Did any one of them ever perform successfully, beyond
all shadow of doubt, the transmutation of base metals into gold or
silver ? True, several interesting accounts are given by trustworthy
men such as Van Helmont and Helvetius, testifying to having suc­
ceeded in bringing about the miracle ; but there is a lack of definite
proof in all these accounts.1 It is an old truth that we believe only
what we wish to believe. The practical part of nearly all alchemical
1 Scientific proof is awanting.
s.o. 25 C
Alchemy Alchemy
works seems to teach a method of obtaining either a gold alloy or
a coating of gold on brass or copper.
§ 50. And it is worthy of note that one of the oldest processes
known to the jewellery trade is that described as mercury-gilding
or fire-gilding. This consists of coating articles made of base metals
with gold amalgam and subsequently volatilizing the mercury by
heat, leaving a thin coating of gold on the articles treated. The
nature of tins process ensures a fairly thick coating of gold being
deposited ; in fact, articles that have been well gilded by this method
have withstood wear for years and have frequently been mistaken
for solid gold until melting them down revealed their true nature.
Now, the earliest known manuscripts dealing with alchemy are full
of recipes written in Greek outlining various methods of manu­
facturing gold alloys, imitations of gold, and artificial precious
stones. These ancient textbooks appear to make no distinction
between gold alloys and imitation gold; so one is forced to the
conclusion that their users knew no difference. And it is quite
possible that the medieval alchemists unknowingly deceived them­
selves into believing what they wished to believe— that the trans­
mutation of base metal into gold or silver had actually taken place,
when in reality only the external appearance of the metal had been
changed, i.e., coated with silver or gold. It must not be forgotten,
either, that experimental testing was very primitive in those days,
compared with our present searching methods of establishing scientific
facts in the laboratory. Magnus, the German alchemist, in his
De Mineralibus, frankly states that alchemy cannot change the
nature of metals, but merely imitates them by colouring them white
like silver, and yellow like gold. He also adds, that he tested gold
made by alchemists and found that it would not withstand six or
seven exposures to fire.
§ 51. This scepticism may perhaps be offset by Roger Bacon's
assertion that with a small amount of the Philosopher's Stone he
could transmute a million times as much base metal into gold.
M odem Alchem y
§ 52. At Munich in 1924, a German named Tausend became
famous on account of his gold-making demonstrations. He placed
lead in his furnaces and out came—gold. Thousands of people—
and pounds—were attracted to him: he became a vogue. Even
General Ludendorff was interested. Strangely enough, although
Tausend was arrested, found guilty of fraud, and sentenced to a
long term of imprisonment, his method remained a secret. The
mystery has never been solved, but one feasible explanation put
forward by a chemist is that a certain crystalline compound used
by Tausend in his transmutations was nothing but chloride of gold,
a chemical which possesses the property of reverting back to pure
gold when heat is applied, causing the chlorine to evaporate. Yet
this very sound explanation does not altogether clear up the mystery.
In fact, many people still believe that Tausend was a true alchemist.
Whatever may be saidregarding Tausend's alchemical claims, another
26
A l c h e m y A lc h e m y
German, a miner in the Erzgebirge, appears to have sounder claims.
This man actually extracts gold from a copper ore named Glimmer-
schiefer. First of all, he dissolved the ore in aqua regia and evaporated
it to dryness. The residue was extracted with hot water, then
treated with alcohol and acetic acid and heated. An iron rod was
placed in the copper to precipitate the copper together with any
gold. The precipitate, after treatment with nitric acid, yielded a
deposit of fine gold. This gold was pronounced pure by assayers
who were unable to detect in it any trace of the original ore; so
that this miner, who worked on medieval lines, was a true alchemist.
§ 53. It is, however, impossible to leave the fascinating subject
of alchemy without briefly referring to the marvellous progress,1
made by modem alchemists, or scientists, if you like, in the metal­
lurgical world of to-day.
§ 54. Almost unbelievable feats of magic are being performed
with the aid of blacklight microscopes, radium torches, spectographs,
and X-rays; feats which if it were possible for the alchemists of
the past to see, would fill them with speechless amazement. For
modem scientists have learnt how to rearrange the atoms into other
patterns, thus making new metals of old. Metals like gold, platinum,
copper and aluminium can be hardened to the strength of steel.
New properties have been found in super-refined zinc, aluminium,
and manganese. Then there are mysterious metals long sought by
science to fill blank gaps in the table of elements and now for the
first time isolated and put to practical use.
§ 55• Queerer still, there are man-made metals one can see through,
synthetic metals built atom by atom into films so thin that they
are almost invisible ; and new alloys, used as units in building new
combinations of metals with properties as yet unknown. All metals
become as transparent as glass to a new radium torch used at the
U.S. Naval Research Laboratory. Containing a tiny bit of radium
in a brass container less than Jth of an inch long, it possesses the
power to penetrate steel 10 inches thick. This simple device takes
the place of a cumbersome X-ray apparatus requiring enormous
voltage to operate.
§ 56. Modemmetallurgical alchemists have created a new metal by
adding 13 per cent, of chromium to steel; they have thus obtained
an alloy that is stainless and rust-proof. From this simple discovery
have proceeded scores of practical applications too numerous to
recount.
The Elixir o f Life
§ 57. A remarkable account of alchemical experiments carried out
within recent times is given in that monthly journal formerly known
as The Occult Review, now the London Forum , in October 1928.
A Mr. and Mrs. Ingalese decided to settle in California in 1910 and
study alchemy.
5 58. They possess a considerable reputation as authors and co-
1 Extracted from the Popular Science Monthly, with thanks.
27
A lc h e m y A lc h e m y
authors of several works dealing with occultism. It is commonly
understood that the main objective of the ancient alchemists was to
transmute base metals into gold; but very often the quest for the
Elixir of Life, the Universal Panacea that would banish disease,
conquer death, and restore youth to aged bodies, became of greater
importance. At first the search for the significant secret of trans­
mutation would be paramount; but as the years passed, and the
alchemist found himself growing old without being any nearer his
goal, he naturally desired youthful vigour to enable him to continue
his studies. So he sought for the Universal Medicine—the Elixir
of Life. Both Mr. and Mrs. Ingalese rightly formed the opinion that
the manufacture of gold was of little value compared to the dis­
covery of the Philosophers' Stone.
§ 59. They began an intensive study of the Hermetical and A l­
chemical Writings of Paracelsus, translated by A. E. Waite. These
writings state that all metals contain essential oils, a theory modem
chemistry does not accept. Work was started on gold, but finding
this expensive, they turned to copper, and after three years of pains­
taking effort succeeded in extracting the red oil of copper. Two
more years passed before they obtained the oil of sulphur; and a
year later the oil of mercury, which is the basis of all alchemy,
was secured. They were now in possession of the three oils neces­
sary to make the Philosophers' Stone; but fifty more weeks went
by before they managed to crystallize and fuse them together.
The White Stone of the Philosophers was made in 1917 and tried
out in traditional fashion—on the cat. Puss developed a friskiness
which encouraged them to try it on themselves. With beneficial
results. Two physicians testified to the power of the Stone upon
Mr. and Mrs. Ingalese. First, renewed strength and greater endur­
ance were noted; then a better circulation of blood, stronger heart­
beats, and an increase of red corpuscles. Next they decided to make
the Red Stone or Earth of the Philosophers, the one so often men­
tioned in alchemical works. It took them three years to accom­
plish this. The “ Red Stone " is intensely bitter, but soon absorbed
by the tongue. Immunity from disease for five years, it is claimed,
results when the Stone has been tasted.
§ 60. A doctor's wife died, and had apparently been dead for half
an hour, when a small dose of the White Stone dissolved in brandy
was placed upon her tongue and repeated at intervals of fifteen
minutes three times, when the woman opened her eyes. She lived
seven years after this.
§ 61. This Elixir of Life is, however, linked closely, not only with
the transmutation of base metals into gold but with rejuvenation.
Rejuvenation
§ 62. With the majority of the alchemists, the search for the
Elixir of Life, the Universal Medicine, kept pace with the quest
for the secret of transmutation. To be rich for ever : to die never
28
Alchemy Alchemy
;how Levi somewhat poetically describes the aims of the devotees
of the hermetic art—the reason for their intensive studies. But
this explanation is hardly a true one. As the years rolled by and
the alchemist found himself growing old, without being any nearer
his ardently-desired goal, he suddenly realized the need for renewed
bodily vigour to enable him to continue his experiments. So he
transferred his attention to discovering some magic potion that
would restore virility and youth.
§ 63. How the idea originated that the Philosophers' Stone, in
addition to its primary power of transmuting base metals into gold,
also had a secondary power of rejuvenating the human body, no
one can say.1 It seems shrouded in antiquity. The Philosophers'
Stone or egg was the symbol of creation to both the ancient
Egyptians and to the Babylonians ; it symbolized the four elements
to the ancient Greeks. One may assume that, by analogous reason­
ing, the alchemists arrived at the opinion that such a miracle-
working substance as the Philosophers' Stone, which could, accord­
ing to their common belief, almost in the twinkling of an eye, change
common metals into the perfection of gold,—must possess within
itself the unique power of triumphing over Nature and arresting
the natural processes of senile decay and death. Paracelsus the
Great in his writings constantly reiterates this belief, and claims
that some of the primitive Egyptian philosophers lived, by means
of a tincture distilled from the Philosophers' Stone, for one hundred
and fifty years, and that the lives of many had been prolonged-
several centuries. “ For its power is so remarkable that it extends
the life of the body beyond what is possible to its congenial nature,
and keeps it so firmly in that condition that it lives on in safety
from all infirmities. And although, indeed, the body at length
comes to old age, nevertheless, it still appears as though it were
established in its primal youth. The Tincture of the Philosophers
is a Universal Medicine, and consumes all diseases, by whatsoever
name they are called, just like an invisible fire. The dose is very
small, but the effect is very powerful."
§64. Another theory postulated by Paracelsus was that by bring­
ing the various elements of the human body into harmony with the
four chief elements of nature (fire, earth, water and air), old age
and death could be indefinitely postponed. He also prepared, by
a series of elaborate processes, an extract— the “ quintessence " of
balm-mint—a few drops of which dissolved in wine would secure
immortality. But, sad to say, after vaunting the marvellous re­
juvenating powers of his Elixir of Life, Paracelsus died at an early
age.® Ideas regarding the composition of the Elixir appear to vary
somewhat. The most popular one was that the precipitation of
the Philosophers' Stone into mercurial water would create it. Others
again asserted that pure gold dissolved in aqua regia and then drunk
would confer immortality. Geber and Roger Bacon both believed
1 It is averred by certain writers that the idea of extracting an Elixir of
Life from the Philosophers’ Stone arose in China.
* See { 36, towards the end.
29
Alchemy Alchemy
in this idea. Even at the present day in India a strong belief exists
in the rejuvenating, health-giving properties of gold, if eaten.
Trithemius, the son of a German vine-grower, who died in 1516,
left a recipe which he claimed would prolong life. It contains,
along with other ingredients, coral, tartar, mace, nard, aniseed,
calomel, cinnamon and gentian—a formidable assortment. But he,
too, was not an old man when he died—unless history lies. Aristeus,
a sorcerer who lived in the time of Croesus and who is reputed to
have lived for centuries, attributed his abnormal longevity to a
mystical treatment of the atmosphere, which had to be congealed
and distilled until it developed the divine sparkle and to be sub­
sequently liquefied. An exalted kind of heavenly dew. It was
afterwards subjected to heat and underwent several other processes
before it yielded the life-giving elixir.
§ 65. The ancients appear to have devoted much time and thought
to the question of rejuvenation apart from alchemy.
§ 66. Arnold de Vfilanova, in a work dealing with the subject,
says: " The stag, eagle and sparrow-hawk renew their youth.
Aldrovandus has written on the rejuvenescence of the eagle. Among
the birds of the air, we are told by Pliny that the raven and the
phoenix1 live, each of them, 600 years. No one denies that the
stag is renewed by feeding on vipers and serpents, while the apes
of Caucasus, whose diet is pepper, prove a sovereign remedy for the
lion who grows young by devouring their flesh. Those who have
written of the elephant, maintain that his normal life is extended
through three centuries, while the horse, which alone participates
in the natures of man, of the lion, of the ox, the sheep, the mule,
the stag, the wolf, the fox, the serpent and the hare, from each
deriving three of its qualities, has occasionally survived with un­
diminished vigour the lapse of a hundred years. The serpent, who
is instrumental in the rejuvenescence of the stag, himself renews
his youth at the shedding of his scales, from all of which consider­
ations, it follows that it is not beyond belief that a like prodigy
may be found in the superior order of the same productions, whence
man has been himself derived, for man is assuredly not in a worse
condition than the beasts whom he rules." The most of this extract
is sheer nonsense, but it serves to show what an extraordinary
amount of interest was taken in rejuvenation by the alchemists.
It is, indeed, a truism that the possibility of prolonging life beyond
the natural span has attracted men throughout the ages.
§ 67. It is not a selfish desire, this yearning to extend the period
of youth ; more especially when one loves life in all its fullness and
beauty. Old age is often a dreadful thing ; particularly so, when
it is made manifest, as it often is, in the loss of vigour, elasticity and
strength : when the eyesight fails : the hearing becomes dull: the
memory less reliable. When the body becomes bent: the limbs
tottering: the teeth decayed: the hair scanty: and the skin
wrinkled, even withered. The human mind fears old age, not
1 That fabulous bird : emblem of immortality, which, let us repeat, is said
to exist single and to rise again from its own ashes.
30
A l c h e m y A lc h e m y
without some reason. Philosophers, magicians, alchemists, and
physicians, too, have all striven hard to find a certain method of
prolonging youth, the springtime of life.
§ 68. The Tree of Knowledge mentioned in the Bible gave rise
to the thought that there existed somewhere one particular kind of
tree, plant or herb which contained within it the power of rejuvenat­
ing the human body. So men searched everywhere for this precious
thing. The aloe and cedar, the amber flora, and innumerable herbs
became the basis of so-called rejuvenating balsams and infusions.
When these failed, alchemy was studied to see if it would yield
some youth-restoring specific. And so there arose the idea that an
Elixir of Life could be distilled from the Philosophers' Stone. Others
came to the conclusion that the sun was the source of life—a reason­
able thought—and placed open jars in the sunlight from the spring
to the autumn. These jars collected dust which was considered to
be solar powder containing life-giving qualities. During the Middle
Ages the marvellous rejuvenating properties ascribed to the Elixir
of Life assumed paramount importance: and the quest for this
priceless fluid almost eclipsed the search for the secret of trans­
mutation. What is the use of riches, anyway, when the capacity
to enjoy the pleasures of life has vanished ?
§69- Another ancient belief was that the breath of innocent
children, if it were inhaled, would create new strength in the aged.
According to Biblical history, King David was benefited by this
method. In the 17th century people spoke about blood-transfusion
as a means of rejuvenation. It is said that Louis XI of France
was rejuvenated by drinking the blood of young people.
§ 70. In the world of medical science nothing was really known
concerning successful rejuvenation until the year 1889, when a well-
known biologist, Brown-Sequard, informed the School of Biology
in Paris, that he had discovered an elixir of life. He had prepared
an extract from the generative gland of an animal and then injected
it into his own body. The effects were remarkable. His muscular
power increased, his brain functioned more rapidly, and his bodily
endurance became greater. Another doctor tested Brown-Sequard's
elixir by treating a number of aged persons who were totally ignorant
of its effects. They were renewed in health and strength as a result
of the experiment. Paris became tremendously excited over the
discovery and would-be rejuvenates besieged the discoverer's resi­
dence until he fled to London to avoid them. Quacks and charlatans
reaped handsome profits until it was proved that the effects of this
treatment were only temporary.
§ 71. No further progress in scientific rejuvenation occurred
until 1909, when Ilya Mechnikoff, the eminent Russian savant,
announced that he had found the real cause and the cure of senile
decay. His theory was that all the infirmities of old age were due
to auto-intoxication which caused putrefaction in the large intestine.
The pathogenic bacteria created by this condition, he stated, could
be destroyed by the lactic add bacillus contained in soured milk.
Mechnikoff based this theory upon the fact that he had discovered
3i
A lc h e m y A l c h e m y
that peasants in Bulgaria, whose chief article of diet was cheese
made from sour milk {koumiss it is called), attained great ages.
§ 72. “ Man does not die naturally; he poisons himself," declared
this scientist significantly. Reinehardt, an authority on diet, ex­
presses the same view. Within recent years, two surgical methods
of rejuvenation have attracted public attention. We refer to the
gland-grafting treatment of Voronoff and to the Steinach operation
known as vaso-ligature. Both of these are reported to be highly
successful, but, when all is said and done, these methods are purely
artificial. Plastic surgery, better known as "face-lifting," whilst
ensuring a youthful appearance externally, cannot retard the natural
effects of old age upon the organs and tissues of the body. The
acquirement of a youthful face and figure is only possible when we
realize that our bodies are governed by Nature : and only by living
in complete harmony with the laws of Nature, can bodily vigour,
health, and mental alertness be maintained, even at an advanced
age.
§ 73. The mind, to a large extent, rules the body. By keeping
mentally young we can contrive to keep the terrors of old age at
bay. But it must never be forgotten that Nature cannot be violated
with impunity. The seeds of many illnesses in late life are often
wantonly sown in our youth.
§ 74. Reverting to the occult aspect of the subject, we may
mention that certain Buddhist monks in the Himalayas are credited
with possessing the secret of youth. They are said to have attained
great ages, while still remaining outwardly youthful and mentally
brilliant. A few years ago there died a Chinaman who was reputed
to have reached the abnormal age of 250 years! But a writer in
a physical culture journal capped this by assuring readers that a
Hindu fakir was still alive at the age of 600 years!
§ 75. We do not know whether these stories are true, but there
are undoubtedly several well-authenticated cases of people who
exceeded a century by many years. In British history two striking
examples are Thomas Parr, " Old Parr," who died in 1635 aged
152 years; and the Irish Countess of Desmond, who died in 1604,
at the ripe age of 140. Abroad we find a Norwegian, Drakenburg
by name, who bears the reputation of living for over 146 years,
and whose body lay in state for a long time prior to 1840. The
quite recent instance of the celebrated Turk supposed to be 150
years old, along with the examples cited above, appears to bear
out the statement attributed to Voronoff that the normal span of
Man's existence should be 150 years—not threescore and ten.
There is a good deal of truth in this. Man from time immemorial
has limited his life to seventy years and anyone who considerably
outlives this period is regarded as either a marvel or a freak.
5 76. But the very fact that numerous people have lived to be
one hundred years old, clearly proves that longer life is a possibility:
always provided that certain laws of Nature are obeyed. For it
should be noted that, consciously or subconsciously, those who
attained great ages have adhered to these same laws. That is the
32
Alchemy Alchemy
simple explanation of their abnormal—if you like to term it such—
their abnormal longevity.
§ 77. In relation to rejuvenation and longevity, it may be recorded
that one of the strangest and most romantic figures in occult history
is that of the Comte de Saint-Germain. Concerning his origin,
many attempts have been made to dear up the mystery surrounding
it. According to the late Miss Annie Besant, he was one of the sons
of Francis Racoczi II, Prince of Transylvania. The children of
this prince were brought up by the Emperor of Austria, but one
of them was placed under the guardianship of the last descendant
of the Media family, who reared him in Italy. He took the name
of Saint-Germain from the little town of San Germano where he had
spent some of his childhood and where his father owned an estate.
In appearance he was of medium height, strongly built, and dressed
with extreme simplicity. A simplicity that contrasted oddly with
the many costly jewels he wore and of which he possessed an ex­
tensive collection. Indeed, his passion for jewels was so great, that
in some pictures he painted, the figures were covered with them.
§ 78. He suddenly presented himself at the court of Louis XV
and soon became firmly established in the good graces of that
pleasure-loving monarch. And, incidentally, aroused the envy and
jealous hatred of the less favoured ones. It is stated by some
writers that the Comte de Saint-Germain was really a very clever
spy whom the French monarch entrusted with diplomatic missions.
Others maintain that Saint-Germain was an adept in occult science,
a master-mind who simply swayed Louis XV—a weak, credulous
ruler at the best of times—to his will. Whatever the Comte may
have been in reality—spy, diplomat, adept, or just a clever ad­
venturer—there is not the slightest doubt about his superior gifts,
his outstanding accomplishments. His knowledge of chemistry was
considerable, and it was said that his huge wealth had been derived
from the transmutation of base metals into gold and from the manu­
facture of precious stones.
§ 79. But the most astounding feature of this queer man was his
claim to immortality. Like Cagliostro,1 he claimed to have lived
centuries ; and to have known both King Solomon and the Queen
of Sheba. He may have been merely a charlatan, like Cagliostro,
but he never betrayed it in any way. Whether this amazing person
really possessed the secret of immortality no one can tell, but his
outward appearance certainly remained unchanged, despite the
passage of time. He spoke several languages; his conversation
was always witty and entertaining; and his charm of manner
absolutely free from any trace of mystery. Voltaire describes him
as “ a man who knows everything and who never dies/'
§ 80. Like a typical man of the world, he enjoyed the society of
beautiful women. It is said that he became the lover of Mile
Lambert, daughter of Chevalier Lambert of Paris, and afterwards
1 See Psychotherapy and Psychic Phenomena, $ 8.
33
Alchemy Alchemy
fell in love with a lady in Holland as rich as himself. The Comte
was the beau-ideal of the aristocracy of his time ; fond of company,
he apparently enjoyed life. But it was noticeable that although he
attended banquets frequently, he never ate any food in public.
Whatever the real reason for this rigid abstinence, the public duly
decided that it was part of some secret regimen the Comte strictly
observed as a means of prolonging his life. Probably there was
more than a grain of truth in this opinion, for in those days, the use
of poison was a fashionable means of getting rid of undesirable
persons—and Saint-Germain had many enemies—people who envied
the powerful influence he wielded at the French court.
§ 8i. Louis XV must have known who the Comte really was, for
he allotted him rooms in the Château of Chambord, where he spent
whole evenings with him and Madame Pompadour. He always
referred to the Comte as a person of distinguished birth, and never
seemed tired of discussing him at any time. The Landgrave Charles
of Hesse-Cassel, with whom Saint-Germain lived previous to his
death or disappearance in 1784, may have learned the secret of his
birth, for he was closely associated with the Comte in many al­
chemical experiments, and had charge of documents relating to his
private affairs.
§ 82. Horace Walpole speaks of the Comte de Saint-Germain as
a man who married a wealthy heiress in Mexico and ran away with
her jewels. The Comte is said to have resided for a while in 1743
in London, where he was arrested as a Jacobite spy, and shortly
afterwards released. Cagliostro asserted that Saint-Germain was
the founder of freemasonry, but such an assertion coming from a
man like Balsamo must be accepted with reserve. It is quite
possible, however, that the Comte was a member of that illustrious
order, and had thus obtained exclusive knowledge of certain natural
secrets which he put into actual practice.
Appendix : Alchemy in Burma
§83. In Burma, alchemical beliefs are widespread, even at the
present time. The Burmese definition of an alchemist is “ zaw-
gyee,” and the alchemist receives this title only after he has intro­
duced into his body certain metallic compounds derived from mercury
or iron. At a certain point in these experiments “ a stone of live
metal ” is obtained. Any person in possession of this stone, accord­
ing to tradition, can fly through the air or travel underground and
wül live for hundreds of years, i.e. so long as he retains possession of
this wonderful stone. This " stone of live metal ” wül also, it is
claimed, turn lead into süver and brass into gold by mere contact,
and cure all diseases, too, in a similarway. These Burmese beliefs are
akin to European ideas concerning the Phüosophers' Stone.
A l a s t a ir B a x t e r .
Booh recommended :
R edgrovb, H. S., Alchemy, Ancient and Modern (Rider, 1911).
34
Alchimia Magia Naturalis Arcana
Alchimia Magi* Naturalis. See Anicia Manuscript. See M an-
Alchemy, § 29. drake, § 1.
Aldrovandgs. See Alchemy, § 66,
near beginning.
Alectoromancy (or Alectry-
mancy). Divination by a cock
picking up grain.
Aleuromancy. Divination by
meal. Also, Alphitomancy.
Alexander the Great. See A l­
chemy, § 22 ; Incubus and Suc-
cubus, § 3 ; and Mandrake, § 9.
Alfar. See Fairies, § 7.
AlXATU. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 41.
Alp. See Fairies, § 7; Witch­
craft, § 13.
Alphitomancy. See Aleuromancy.
Alraun. See Mandrake, § 14.
Amaterasu. See Buddhist Occult-
. § 13-
Amitabha Buddha. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 4.
“ A mphitheatrum Sa pie n tia
Eterna.” See Alchemy, § 38.
Anak. See Moslem Occultism,
§§ H -I5 -
Analysis, Psycho-, of Occult
Phenomena. See Psycho-ther­
apy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 14-18.
Ananda. Buddha's cousin, and
favourite disciple.
Animals’ Ghosts. See Ghosts,
§« •
“ Anima Magica Abscondita.”
See Alchemy, §. 44.
Animated C orpse. See Vampire.
Anna K auri. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 44.
Anne Boleyn, ghost of. See
Ghosts, § 7.
“ Anrias, David.” See Scott,
Cyril.
Anthropomancy. Divination by
the entrails of a human being
(generally offered in sacrifice).
Anthroposcopy. Divination by
the facial features.
Anti-Buddhist Laws. See Bud­
dhist Occultism, § 8.
“ Antiquitie of Magic, T he.”
See Alchemy, § 44.
Apam NAPAT. See Indian Occult­
ism, § 6.
“ Apology,” Boehme’s. See A l­
chemy, § 41.
Apparition of L iving Person.
See Ghosts, § 8 ; and Illusion
and Hallucination, § 8.
Apuleios Platonicus. See M an­
drake, § 11.
Aquinas. See Alchemy, § 26.
Ani, Papyrus of. See History o f Arcana (major and minor). See
Occult Ideas, §§ 24-30. White Magic, § 4.
35
Astrology
Argentaurum Gold
Argentaurum G old. See A l­
chemy, § 48, near beginning.
Aristeus. See Alchemy,§64, near
end.
Aristotle. See Alchemy, §§ 10- 1
24.
Arithmancy. Divination by num­
bers.
appearances. Also, Haruspicy.
Asana. See Eight Stages of Yoga.
Ashmole, Elias. See Literature
of Occultism, § 19.
Asia M inor [early], occult ideas
in. See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 31- 42.
Asoka. See Buddhist Occultism,
Arnold, Matthew. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 9.
Artemis. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 15.
Aspects. See Asfro/ogy, § 4.
Association Alchimiste, l\ See
Alchemy, § 6.
Arthurian Romances. See Eng-1
EsA Literature and the Occult, Astral Body. A slightly less
§§ 4, 5. material body than the physical
frame. See Spiritualism, Part
Aruspicy. Divinationby sacrificial I, § 14.
ASTROLOGY
§ 1. The astrologers term astrology “ the soul of astronomy/'
The astronomers describe astrology as " baseless nonsense." Both
are correct; but they are by no means good friends about the matter
—probably because the astronomers experienced so much difficulty
in shaking the astrologers' superstitions out of their science. In
fact, they had barely succeeded by the year a.d. 1600. Astrologers
base their system on the erroneous supposition that the heavenly
bodies have “ character " and exert an influence over the earth,
affecting both men and things. The belief is of Babylonian origin 1
and has been handed on from one nation to another until the present
day, as our Sunday newspapers make very clear. Each nation that
has handled the subject has inflated and decorated it ; each new
theory, each scientific fact has been perverted and tacked on to it.
Every practitioner has rationalized and justified these additions by
a process of false logic. In 1933 R. H. Naylor published a book,
Home Astrology, in which he remarks (p. 13): “ The Modem
‘ Scientific' thinker, observing the co-relation between the Moon
and the tides, says boldly that the Moon causes the tides. Having
done so, he is perfectly satisfied that he is stating the truth. But
he says, too, that when the ancients assumed a connection between
the Moon and the feminine functions (just as obvious as between the
Moon and the tides), they were talking through their prehistoric
1 See also History of Occult Ideas, §§ 42-3.
3
6
Astrology Astrology
hats! . . . ' Logic9 and ‘ reason * are only too often processes by
which we disprove things that are not convenient to believe/’ In
this last clause Mr. Naylor is referring to false logic, which is exactly
the type he is making use of himself. Scientific thinkers observing
an apparent relationship between moon and tide take steps to prove
the connection before stating it as a fact. The menstrual periodicity
to which Mr. Naylor points in the above highly intellectual paragraph,
is actually not very different from the periods of oestrus displayed
by the lower animals. Scientific thinkers areof the opinion that this
peculiarity is a result of life having originated in the sea, where
living things were very materially affected by the tides—a much
more reasonable contention than the belief that an occult influence
is exercised over creatures by the extinct moon, which is merely a
piece of volcanic rock, no matter how big or beautiful it appears.
It must be remembered also, that a full moon and a spring tide
invariably coincide, the lunar gravitational pull being mathematically
demonstrable ; but not every human female functions at that time,
nor all of them at the same time.
§ 2. The visit of a comet is considered to presage evil—or at least,
momentous events. In the famous Bayeux Tapestry a comet is
depicted in the heavens ; and below, a group of terrified people are
shown within doors. After the appearance of the comet thus
recorded, William of Normandy defeated Harold the Saxon at
Senlac, near Hastings, in the year a.d. 1066. Plagues, earthquakes,
wars and death of royalty always follow the advent of a comet;
in fact, on one such occasion all the cats in Pomerania were sick!
The untrained human mind seems so constructed as inevitably to
argue post hoc ergo propter hoc (after that, therefore because of that):
it is, therefore, very difficult to demonstrate that the sequence of
events is not a matter of cause and effect.
§ 3. It is on this fallacious form of argument that all superstition
is based, and there is as much sympathetic magic in astrology as
in the belief that one may kill an enemy by roasting hisimage.1 For
instance, the stars emit a lustre, so do metals; hence protohistoric
man, knowing of seven metals and seven planets, saw a connection
that did not exist. He equated gold to the Sun O* silver to the
Moon ([, iron to Mars quicksilver to Mercury $, tin to Jupiter 2J.,
copper to Venus $, and lead to Saturn h , using the same cryptic
symbol to designate both the metal and the planet; thus every
alchemist needed to be an astrologer.
§ 4. The Zodiac is the path in the sky that the sun, moon, and
planets apparently journey along. It is divided into twelve “ signs/'
each given a name and a symbol, as follows: Aries, the Ram T
Taurus, the Bull tf ; Gemini, the Twins tt ; Cancer, the Crab szs
Leo, the Lion SI \ Virgo, the Virgin W ; Libra, the Balance =
2
=
Scorpio, the Scorpion flj ; Sagittarius, the Archer f ; Capricomus,
the Goat V
% ; Aquarius, the Water Carrier o s ; and Pisces, the
Fishes X- The signs are actually geometrical divisions thirty
degrees apart. The rotation of the earth leads to the delusion that
1 See also Black Magic, §§ 5-7.
37
Astrology
Astrology
the entire heavens swing round the pole-star; hence the astrologers
mapped out a stationary celestial equator divided into twelve parts
corresponding to the twelve signs of the Zodiac. These sections are
termed “ houses," and numbered from the east downward towards
the west, and from the west upward towards the east, because the
astrologer’s interest is centred in the rising stars and the rising signs.
Having fixed houses and mobile signs, it necessitates a term denoting
their relative position : “ aspects " is made to serve this end. Planets
in the same sign and the same house are said to be in conjunction ;
those in signs and houses opposite to each other, in opposition.
The character of the houses is as follows: i, life; 2, riches; 3,
brothers ; 4, parents ; 5, children ; 6, health ; 7, marriage ; 8, death ;
9, religion; 10, dignities; n , friendship; 12, enmity.
§ 5. The foregoing indicates the basis on which astrological prog­
nostications are made ; but, viewing the entire system, we find that
there is hardly a more ramified and complicated set of errors known
to man. William Wilson, in his book, Astrology— A n Effort at
Simplification, published 1928, says (pp. 72-3) : “ The other forces
are mainly the Signs ascending in the East at the time of birth, the
influence of which is scarcely less strong on the Personality; the
Moon and seven planets have also to be reckoned with. In order
to ascertain these it is necessary to erect a figure, map, chart, or
horoscope, as it is called a record of the conditions at the hour of
birth, taken from the Ephemeris, or Planetary Almanac, and this
is not a formidable undertaking. Students are recommended not
to confuse themselves at the outset by a wish to understand all about
Sidereal Time, Right Ascension and Wrong Ascension, the Geo
versus the Heliocentric System: in short, the many Astronomical
and other questions which continually press themselves forward to
distract attention." No wonder astronomers weep and calendarians
gnash their teeth ! Matters that can be measured merely distract
the student's attention from the all-important truths that persons
bom under Aries (20 March to 20 April), which rules the head, are
“ busy-brained, interested in matters educational, executive, excit­
able, independent. . . . Aries gives strong bones . . . a wiry neck,
hair strong and warm in colour." Those bom in Taurus (20 April
to 20 May), which “ rules the neck and lower brain of man," will
have bull-like characters, and “ hair (which) is characteristic, grace­
fully waving, very impatient of bondage with generally a prominent
wayward lock above the forehead." It may, in passing, be of interest
to note that the quality of the hair is a matter of race and racial
admixture: a pure negro has negro-type hair, no matter which
season he is bom in. However, ignoring such facts which serve
only to distract the student's attention, we learn that Gemini (20May
to 20June) rules the arms, bronchials and shoulders, and that persons
bom in this sign are “ humane, courteous, harmonious, interested
in the arts . . ." and, at this point we receive a streak of astrological
inspiration (irrespective of our birthday !) and state most emphatically
that they are always bom in pairs. Cancer (21 June to 23 July)
rules the breast and stomach: that, no doubt, is why the disease so
Astrology Astrology
named settles commonly in these organs. Leo (23 July to 23 August)
rules the region of the heart, and, as we would expect, persons bom
between these dates are “ proud, imperious, punctilious, . . . ambi­
tious and great-hearted. There is a certain dignity in the personality,
which is lithe and broad, with a notably well-formed back and leonine
hair/' Virgo (23 August to 23 September) rules solar plexus, liver
and bowels ; it is the sign of eternal youth. Libra (23 September
to 23 October) rules loins and kidneys (astrologers used to add “ the
reins ” till the word went quite out of common usage). Natives of
this sign borrow money without the intention or ability to repay;
hence it follows one should always ascertain a person’s birthday
before lending. Scorpio (23 October to 22 November) rules the
“ generative and neighbouring organs.” Persons bom in this sign
have dark crisp curling hair; so we suppose it is the favourable
season for negroes. Sagittarius (22 November to 22 December) rules
the thighs, and produces persons who are “ noble, generous and
laudable,” with an instinct that guides them aright if left to them­
selves. Capricorn (22 December to 29 January) rules the knees;
Aquarius (20 January to 19 February) rules the legs; and last, but
not least, Pisces (19 February to 29 March), which we learn “ seems
to cause some unusual formation of, or weakness in the feet ” ;
nevertheless, Mr. Wilson (to whom we are indebted for much of the
above enlightenment, though it was many hundreds of years old
before he rehashed it) says, only twelve lines below, “ His foot is put
down with Olympian firmness . . .,” so evidently weakness and
strength are synonymous in astrology. As a grand finale he says:
“ We are apt to forget that we are part of a great whole and not
merely individuals. Mars and Saturn, the authors of destruction,
also provide the renewal of supply. Jupiterians have money ; their
children squander it (unless they, too, are Juperiterians, we presume!).
Propagation is absolutely needful (why ?); so there is always seed in
abundance. Birds feed upon it and so keep it down (ambiguous
this !). Fish are the ocean’s scavengers; most animals, probably
all, have similar work to do (we have seen elephants using brooms in
the Zoological Gardens) ; so the machinery is never clogged. Worms
help to bury cities when their usefulness has ceased . . . (an elevated
task for the humble earthworm /). Masses of people make conditions
that cause impurities, which wind and rain help to remove (the
elements having been designed solely for that purpose); ships are
wrecked, books destroyed, fashions changed in order that work may
be provided. . . .” We read no more but sing praises of the
astrologers, who have discovered why ships are wrecked and books
destroyed. What can the astronomers boast in the face of that ?
What is a new star— or even Einstein’s Theory ?
§ 6. Concerning the planets, those mundane astronomers would
have us believe that Mercury, on the side facing the sun, has a
temperature exceeding six hundred degrees Fahrenheit—a fieriness
sufficient to keep tin and lead running in streams; that Venus is
continuously obscured by clouds, and therefore nothing is known of
its surface. It is called the earth's twin sister because its density,
39
Astrology Astrology
which is higher than that of the earth, proves it to have a solid
centre. Mars has a smoother surface than the earth, an atmosphere
like the earth's, a diameter of about half that of the earth, and
consequently a much lower gravitational pull. It has polar caps of
ice which melt in summer (that is the Martian summer), but still
there is a dearth of water so that its most fertile plains are as arid as
our Sahara. The Martian canals are not, as popularly supposed,
akin to those of Venice ; the word “ canal" in this instance is simply
a mistranslation of “ canali," the Italian for " channel." They are
not cut by man, or any creature like him, being, according to the
latest theories, merely geological “ faults " that appear as a network
of straight lines. Mars has two satellites, Phobos (Fear) and Deimos
(Terror), which names are but names—with nothing in them. Jupiter
is very large and very soft—that is, it seems to be composed entirely
of fluid matter; and if it has a core of dense material, this core is
small in comparison with its bulk. The liquid and vaporous condi­
tion is not due to the planet's heat, for Jupiter's temperature is about
minus two hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Saturn, almost as large, as
Jupiter, and some thirty-eight degrees colder, is distinguished by a
ring of stones or pebbles revolving round its equator. We also
know a little of Uranus and Neptune, and are beginning to believe
in the existence of another planet—Pluto.
§ 7. The foregoing are facts of the kind that astrologers do not
deny, but regard as matters that distract the student's attention.
The divine astrologers tell us, concerning these same planets, that
“ Mercury, the seventh planet, is considered masculine or feminine
according to his conjunction with other planets. He is cold, dry
and melancholy, and is associated with wit, liveliness, ingenuity
and invention." He (or she) governs diseases that attack the brain
and head; governs also more than a hundred plants, including
trees, one of these being the walnut; and numerous animals, among
them the dog, ape, weasel and fox. “ He rules schools, colleges,
markets, exchanges, warehouses, and all places of learning and
commerce," and has numerous precious and semi-precious stones
in his keeping. He influences stormy weather, and possesses or is
possessed by the angel Raphael. Venus, the “ Queen of Pleasure,"
is temperate, cold and moist. Her animals are the goat, the panther,
the dove, the sparrow and the thrush. Her stones are emerald and
beryl. Her plants number two hundred and include the fig, the
myrtle and the pomegranate. She sends us wet warm weather,
and her diseases are those of the genital system (including hysteria!).
She, too, has an angel, named Hanael. Mars influences “ all fevers,
plagues, flux, smallpox, St. Anthony's fire, carbuncles, fistulas,
ringworm, jaundice, stone in the bladder and kidneys, injuries by
fire and sword, and all diseases of the left ear." He is a masculine,
hot, dry planet, the ruler of “ iron, arsenic, antimony, sulphur, , . .
and among beasts, the tiger, wolf, (and) mastiff. . . . The birds
under him are the hawk, kite, raven, (and) vulture. . . . Of precious
stones, the ruby, garnet, bloodstone and jasper are affected by
him . . ; also, slaughter-houses, battle-fields, blacksmiths' shops
40
Astrology Astrology
and brick-kilns are his happy hunting-ground. He is connected (or
confused) with an angel, Samael. Jupiter is “ masculine, moist,
airy and sanguine,” and governs a hundred and seventy-two plants,
including the oak and apple-tree. His stones are the topaz, amethyst
and hyacinth; his animals, the horse, the ox, the elephant, the
whale, the dolphin, the eagle, the peacock, and pheasant. His
occupations are the Church and the Law; his diseases are those of
the fiver, lungs, hands, and arteries, but he shares the left ear with
Mars, and has an angel, Zadkiel. Saturn is by nature cold and dry,
melancholy, masculine and malevolent. His animals are cats, asses,
hares, mules, mice, wolves, bears, crocodiles, serpents, eels and
shellfish, bats and owls. His gems are the sapphire and lapis lazuli.
The occupations he governs are those of the husbandman, the day-
labourer, the monk, the Jesuit, sextons and dyers. His weather (or,
at least, the weather he sends us) is " dark and cloudy, cold and
hurtful,” therefore his diseases are ague and rheumatism. Cassel
is his angel.
§ 8. Uranus and Neptune were not discovered till respectively
the eighteenth and the nineteenth century, the former in 1781 by
Herschel; the latter in 1843 by Adams ; nevertheless, the astrologers,
nothing daunted, seized them in a grip of iron, declaring Uranus
to be the influencing planet of “ strange, sudden and extraordinary
events,” and Neptune the “ significator of great crises.” Pluto, if
itJs really discovered, belongs to the twentieth century and is so
far the exclusive property of Percy Lowell (whose initials P. L. form
the first two letters of the trans-Neptunian planet's name). If
Pluto does not prove to be a comet, or some other casual inhabitant
of the heavens, then his mystic powers will surely be added to him
by a modem astrologer and the Lowellites will lose him. However,
anticipating a confirmation of the planet's existence, we will our­
selves allot to him aerial and poison-gas warfare, wireless telephony,
television, and infra-red photography; the india-rubber plant;
chromium-plated goods, and all objects manufactured from synthetic
resin (e.g. Bakelite); and of diseases, disturbances to the hormono-
poietic system. Precious gems : the imitation pearl. Angel: Pilot.
§ 9. If the stars exercised their influence over both diseases and
plants, then it followed that there must be a close connection between
the plants and the diseases, hence an astrological pharmacopoeia
was evolved; every astrologer considered himself a physician, and
not a few physicians embraced astrology. To cure apoplexies by
astrological medicine, the patient was dosed with a brew of mistletoe,
lavender, lily, sage, marjoram, and fennel. As a remedy for sore
throat (even though the soreness might have been diphtheric), a
drench compounded from ground-ivy, pellitory, vine, elder-flowers,
barley, woodbine, and golden-rod, was administered. A sixteenth-
century document states : “ The end of the physician's employment
is the cure of the patient, that he may accomplish this desirable
end . . . astrology is very necessary ” (spelling modernized). The
author, an astrologer, then proceeds to teach the physician his trade,
and accompanies his words of wisdom with a chart showing “ What
8.0. 41 d
Astrology Astrology
Every House Signifies in Case of Sickness or Otherwise/' The
moon was considered to affect lunatics ; but modem research reveals
that this, too, is only an astrological truth. The cacodemons, native
to the twelfth house, do not get possession of patients at full moon,
neither do they disturb sane sleepers and induce in them bad dreams.
However, the astrologers, even in this enlightened age, derive a
livelihood from astrology; therefore they will fight tooth and nail
to retain their territory, and superstition concerning the dream-life
is part of it.
§ io. R. H. Naylor, who is most up to date, says: “ Ever since
printing was invented, dream books have appeared." This is
passable if we include the Bible among dream books, on the strength
of Joseph's exploit in oneiromancy. He further states : “ German
scientists have . . . discovered a *scientific * method of dream
interpretation. Their system is a very simple one; it is entirely
based on the sex instinct. We need not pause to examine the
theories. . . . Let us turn to a more wholesome Astrological
System of dream interpretation " (op. cit., p. 197). This may be a
piece of crass ignorance or deliberate misrepresentation, and cannot
remain uncontested. In the first place it is quite impossible to
identify these “ German scientists," because they do not exist, and
there is no very simple system based entirely on the sexual instinct.
It is obvious that the writer is referring to the Freudian system of
dream analysis, but Freud is an Austrian—not a German. His
system is extremely complicated and would require a pause of
several years to examine it adequately; and, most important, it is
not based on the sexual instinct at all. It is based on an analytical
method of discovering the content of the unconscious mind; and,
if such reveals sexual trends it simply means that the patient, or
dreamer, is a living organism. The Freudian method cannot possibly
appeal to an astrologer because, apart from having a tendency to
put him out of business, it is scientific, and therefore must be as
repellent as astronomy.
§ n . “ Let us turn to a more wholesome Astrological System "
and learn the “ General Rules for Dream Interpretation," the first
of which is, "if it occurs between retiring and midnight, then its
interpretation will probably work out in terms of health, love affairs,
speculation, home, family or parents." This being a fairly safe and
extensive assortment, we turn to rule 2 and find it gives an equally
safe and extensive assortment for the hours “ between midnight and
getting up." Rule 3 has no restraining influence on the all-embracing
premises; and rule 4 lays down that " Dreams which occur near
the new or full Moon often directly or indirectly foreshadow events
or experiences which will occur within one month's time " ; which
is again fairly safe and non-committal. Statistics are quoted next.
The familiar dream of falling “ should never be taken seriously, for,
in nine hundred and ninety-nine cases out of a thousand, such dreams
result from purely physical causes. . . . " We should like to ask
on what authority the figures are given, who compiled them, and
by what method ? And, presuming for the moment (seeing we can
42
Astrology Astrology
get no answer) that they are " correct for all practical purposes/'
or " as near as no matter," we should like to point out that only
the thousandth case is of any importance or interest; for obviously
he is the person who should take it seriously, and we wish to know why.
§ 12. After some facetious remarks concerning dream symbolism,
we are given an outline of “ twelve great groups of symbolic dreams,"
and reading them through carefully we come to the conclusion that
there is so much to say that it is perhaps best to say nothing at all,
and to allow our astrologer to say his own say, which is : “ I would
warn readers, however, to think twice before accepting the meaning
attached to symbols in popular Dream Books. They are nearly
always wrong " ! And we would warn our readers to think thrice
before accepting the “ wholesome astrological" interpretations, as
they are always wrong without the mitigating “ nearly."
§ 13. Bad though that may be, it is not astrology at its worst.
An Indian gentleman named Rangil Lakshmidasa Sutaria has
produced a work entitled Astrology of the Race Course. After a lofty
quotation from the Bhagawadgita, on the title page, and the assur­
ance in the preface that “ astrology is as good a science as medicine,
law, or logic," he commences the work with the words, “ When I
speak of racing I mean horse-racing. I want you to understand that,
because modem civilization has devised other forms of racing, too;
boat or yacht racing is a point in instance." A few lines farther
down we learn that racing (horse-racing understood!) is a “ com­
paratively modem idea imported into this country by the sporting
Britisher who may, with pride, give it the pride of place. . . ."
This gentleman, boasting the academic distinction of Bachelor of
Arts, is a great recommendation for all those who do not; and he
increases one's admiration of the pious Mohammedan, who refrains
from dealing in books on astrology, in obedience to the passage in
the Koran which forbids true believers to sell valueless goods.
§ 14. This is an age of scientific accuracy; the stars have been
analysed, and the surface temperature of the planets taken; also,
Jupiter's minute ninth satellite has been discovered and described
(though from the surface of the planet itself it would be invisible to
the naked eye), so there is no possible excuse to be found for those
who believe in astrology ; but up to fifteen, or even sixteen hundred
A.D., men of brilliant intellect had no alternative but to believe.
Even Copernicus (1473-1543), who was one of the world's greatest
astronomers, was not entirely uncontaminated by superstition ; and
Tycho Brahe (1546-1601), who in 1572 discovered a new star, thus
elevating himself to the rank of a great astronomer, said of that
star, “ [It portends] a period of wars, seditions, captivity, the deaths
of Princes and destruction of Cities, together with drought and fiery
meteors in the air, bringing pestilence and venomous snakes, want,
death, imprisonment, and all kinds .of sad things." He, like many
other great men, found that “ We cannot deny the influence of the
stars, without disbelieving in the wisdom of God," which is as much
a comment on the religious persecution and bigotry of the time, as
upon stellar influence. He was also an alchemist and an astrological
43
Astrology Astrology
physician; in fact, he may be further described as the first plastic
surgeon, for, losing a portion of his nose in a duel, he built the organ
up with a gold and silver amalgam.
§ 15. Paracelsus1 (1490-1541), the great physician, believed that
the elements constituting the body of man were held together by
occult forces situated in the stomach, consequently he became an
alchemist and an astrologer, because in his opinion “ a physician
should know the physiology and anatomy of heaven as well as that
of man, to understand the cause and cure of astralic diseases, because
he may vainly try his remedies as long as his patient is under the
ascending influence of an evil star. . . . Every metal and every
plant possesses qualities that may attract corresponding planetary
influences, and if we know the influence of the star, the conjunction
of the planets, and the qualities of our drugs, we will know what
remedy to give to attract such influences as may act beneficially
on the patient/1
§ 16. Queen Elizabeth's Court Astrologer was Dr. John Dee,2
who brought himself into disgrace by attempting, with Edward
Kelley, to practise necromancy. It is related of Dee, that as a
result of his indiscretion he became so poor that he " oft-times sold
a book to buy a meal." This speaks very highly of the book-dealers
of the period; to-day, many books would be required. Dee was a
man of learning, a mathematician, and no disgrace intellectually to
his university (St. John's, Cambridge), but his successor in astrology
was William Lilly, an uneducated person, who commenced life as a
kitchen-scullion, learned legerdemain from a magician named Evans,
and brought himself into prominence by attempting to find treasure
in Westminster Abbey, with the aid of divining-rods. Instead of
gold he found demons who nearly blew the building down (or perhaps
it happened to be a stormy night), and the disappointed diviner
spent the rest of the night working spells to lay the furies he had
raised. He continued the “ great work " by publishing prophetic
almanacs which sold very well, and have continued to sell very
well, in forms to suit the age, down to this day. John Gadbury, a
contemporary and rival astrologer, described him as " that grand
but fortunate impostor, Mr. William Lilly."
§ 17. Lilly's adopted son, Henry Coley, was more of the mathe­
matician than the astrologer, though he published a book or two on
the latter subject, and continued the business of almanac-making.
The seventeenth century abounded in astrological charlatans—men
who were not above common cheating, prophets who rigged the
stage that their predictions might be fulfilled; occasionally they
overstepped themselves and were put in the pillory for fraud.
§ 18. The eighteenth century commenced with a fortune-teller or
quack doctor in almost every alley in the city of London. These
villains published broadsheets denouncing and insulting each other ;
and the truth is, there was nothing to choose between them. Even
qualified doctors of medicine had to join in the handbill battles,
issuing their warning, “ beware who you consult in Physick for it
1 See also Alchemy, §§ 20, 36, 38, 59, 64.
1 See also Alchemy, § 37 ; and Black M agic, § 13.
Astrology Astrology
is becoming a common cheat to profess it.” Ebenezer Sibley stands
out from this welter of insolence battening upon ignorance. He was
a qualified doctor of medicine, but genuinely believed in and made
a study of astrology. Dubbing himself an “ Astro-philosopher,” he
published numerous books, setting forth nothing new, it is true, but
faithfully recapitulating all that had gone before, andthereby proving
at least that he was a sincere and industrious, if misguided scholar.
§ 19. The nineteenth century was not without its astrologers,
who for the greater part had the niceness to disguise their identity
under stellar pseudonyms ; they were not encouraged ; the nineteenth
century was respectable. It was also level-headed, and determined
to make a fortune in the City, which it did.
§ 20. The twentieth century, strange as it may seem, has regressed
into a state of mental puerility so far as astrology is concerned, and
there are now more firm believers than there were a century ago.
No mid-Victorian newspaper, even though published on Sunday,
would have dared devote a page to astrological matters, as our
contemporary press, to its shame, does. It should be emphasized
that these articles appearing are not intended to be humorous either
by the writer of the article or by the editor of the paper.
§ 21. Judicial astrology, which purports to read the fate and
fortune of all and sundry; horary astrology, which claims to learn
from the stars the correct answer to any question ; natural astrology,
whereby prophecies are made concerning anything ranging between
the forthcoming weather and the fall of empires ; and even esoteric
astrology, by the practice of which astrologers discover why and
how the universe was created,— all are manipulated by the same
method. The practitioner casts a horoscope, that is, he draws a
chart consisting of geometric divisions, in each of which he inscribes
the symbols employed to designate stars, planets, houses, signs of the
Zodiac, and the like, so that the relative positions of all these appear
in diagrammatic form. All kinds of questions were, and probably
still are, put to the astrologers. Grinling Gibbons, the famous wood-
carver, consulted them that he might find the propitious hour in
which to start a business proposition ; and “ horary figures,” showing
when ‘*the lost moneywill be found,'' areplentiful. The most common
type of horoscope is the nativity—a figure outlining a person's fate
and fortune from birth. To construct this, the astrologer should
know the exact hour of birth, yet nowadays they unblushingly cast
them per post for the sum of five shillings, without knowing anything
more accurate than the day; and as obviously the signs, stars, and
planets, each with their influences, characters, plants, diseases and
metals, must ” move ” in relation to the earth very considerably in
the course of the twenty-four hours covered by any specific date,
such laxity savours very strongly of common fraud; for no conscien­
tious astrologer who really believed in stellar influence (no matter
how mistakenly) could possibly work on such slender data.
See also:
History of Occult Ideas, §$ 42-3, and Occultism in Ancient Greece and Home, { 5.
45
Astrosophy
Astrosophy. Astrology.
Asuras. See Indian Occultism,
§ 7-
Asuri-kalpa. See Indian Occult­
ism , § 8.
Asvins. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
Aswattha. The Tree of Know­
ledge represented as growing
with roots (spirit) in the air and
branches (cosmos) in the soil.
“ Awntyrs of Arthur ”
palaeontology and cultural an­
thropology, indicate that the
"Atlantis Theory" is utterly
invalid; and from geological
facts we perceive that if a con­
siderable land-mass ever did
occupy the position claimed for
Atlantis, it must have disap­
peared before the end of the
Palaeozoic Era—a little matter
of at least thirty million years
before the human race was
evolved.
See also History of Occult
Ideas.
Atanor. See Alchemy, § 19. Atman. Pure consciousness—
Selfhood as distinct from Ego.
Athavaveda. See Indian Occult- 1
ism t § 1 et seq. Aum. See Om.
Atlantis. A land-mass of con­
tinental dimensions, which, ac­
cording to certain modem the­
orists, occupied the area now
covered by the Atlantic Ocean.
From the evidence afforded by
spirit-whispers, automatic- writ­
ing, and the like, these theorists
claim that it was to Atlantis
that the human race came when
it decided to grace with its pre­
sence this planet. It is even
claimed by the supporters of
this extravagant notion, that
Ancient Egypt and the Early
Maya Settlements were but
colonies founded by the in­
habitants of Atlantis, which
latter contention is " proved "
by persons purporting to have
deciphered the Mayan Scripts ;
needless to add, these experts
have not bothered to blush
when the same scripts have, in
the hands of recognized authori­
ties, turned out to be simply
calendars !
§ 2. The well-established facts
of such sciences as biology,
4
6
ura. A psychic fluid or force,
supposed to envelop all living
creatures. It is conceived of
as a nebulous mass of colour,
the shade varying with the per­
sonality : all animals are sup­
posed to " sense " it—but only
such human beings as are
psychically advanced can do
likewise.
“ Aurora, the.” See Alchemy,
§ 41-
Austen, Jane. SeeEnglish Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 16.
Austromancy. Divination by
winds.
Avalon. See Fairies, § 6.
Avatars. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
“ Awntyrs of Arthur, the.”
See English Literature and the
Occtdt, §4.
Axe
Axe, the Double. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 57, 63, 83.
Axinomancy. Divination by a
balanced hatchet.
Azoth. See Alchemy, § 19.
Azra’il. See Moslem Occultism,
§ 4.
B
Baaras. See Mandrake, § 8.
Babylonian Astrology. See
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 42-3 ;
Occultism in Ancient Greece and
Rome, § 5.
Bacon, Roger. See Alchemy,
§§ 27, 51, 64 ; Literature of
Occultism, § 19.
Bajang. See Vampire, ¿fe, § 13.
Balham, haunted house at. See
Ghosts, § 4.
Ballads. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 8.
Balsamo, Joseph. See Cagliostro.
Banshee. See Ghosts, § 13.
Baphomet. See Dm7 Worship,
§ 4 ; and Black Magic, § 8.
Barham, Rev. R. H., Author of |
The Ingoldsby Legends. A col­
lection of amusing tales in ele­
gant prose and eccentric verse,
dealing with the occult—to its
detriment !
Barnes, Geo. O. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 9*
Bernard
Bats, Chinese. See Pien fu .
IBats, Vampire. See Vampire,
1 the, § 7.
Bau. See History of Occult Ideas,
§ 34-
“ Beals, Bessie.” See Bessie . . .
|Beaumont, John. A psychopathic
person with severe hallucina­
tions, who wrote an amusing
book, Treatise on Spirits, A p ­
paritions, etc., 1705.
^Beddoes. See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 9, 15.
|Be lo m a cy . Divination by
arrows.
Benson, E. F. SeeEnglish Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 19.
^
Beowulf. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 3.
|Beraud, Marthe. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 21.
Bergmanchen. See Fairies, § 16.
Bergmonck. A terrible figure of
a gigantic monk, haunting
treasure-bearingmines (German
origin). Treasureminesallover
the world are said to be haunted
by some kind of demon.
Berman, Dr. L ouis. See Black
Magic, § 16 ; White Magic, § 3.
“ Bernard d’Alchmague cum
Bernard T reviso, le,” See
Alchemy, §34.
Bernard, Richard. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 17.
47
Black Magic
Berthelot
Berthelot, Professor. See A l­
chemy, §§ 2, 23.
Bertrand, Sergeant. See Were­
wolf, § 8.
Besant, Annie. See Alchemy,
§ 77-
“ Bessie Beals.” See Spiritual­
ism, Part III, § 16.
Bessinet, Ada. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 29.
Besteman, T heodore. SeeSpirit­
ualism, Part II, § 18.
Bibliomancy. Divination by the
Bible.
Bickerstaff, Isaac [pseud.). See
Literature of Occultism, § 38.
Bierce. See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 18, 19.
Biethor, Ibn. See Mandrake,
§ 9.
Bija. See Buddhist Occultism, § 9.
Bir. See Indian Occultism, § 8.
Black Art, the, is translated
from nigromancy, a perversion
of necromancy (q.v.). The same
misunderstanding has passed
into most European languages,
and has led to the parallel
adoption of white in white magic.
(Vide Ernest Weekly, Etymo­
logical Dictionary of Modern
English, 1921.)
BLACK MAGIC
§ 1. The fundamental difference between an Australian aborigine,
considered by many European and American “ whites ” to be the
most lowly specimen of mankind, and those same 0 whites ” who
consider themselves the highest specimens of mankind—is, that whilst
all Australian black-fellows believe that by pointing a bone at a
neighbour and repeating a magical formula the while, they can cast
a spell, not quite all “ whites ” give credence to the power of " the
evil eye ” and the potency of curses.
§ 2. This distinction, however, could not have been made in the
Middle Ages, for at that time Europe was steeped in sorcery and
black magic from hovels to palaces ; peasants, princes and prelates
all being involved. Those who were not actively engaged in casting
spells, invoking demons, and entering into pacts with the Devil, were
for ever on the alert protecting themselves against the furies—to
which end they purchased amulets, relics, and sacred medallions
whilst the emissaries of the Church of Rome, when not busily
engaged in detecting and punishing sorcerers, were exorcising and
casting demons out of the possessed members of the flock. If the
sorcerers were black magicians, the priests were certainly white
magicians, though no very hard and fast line can be drawn between
the two. A. E. Waite, in The Book of Black Magic, says: " Each
of the occult sciences was, however, liable to that species of abuse
which is technically known as Black Magic. Astrology . . . could
be perverted into the composition of malefic talismans . . f Esoteric
Medicine . ♦ . produced in its malpractices the secret of poisoning
Black Magic Black Magic
. . . Divination became debased into Witchcraft, and Ceremonial
Magic into dealing with Devils. White, Ceremonial Magic is, by
the terms of its definition, an attempt to communicate with Good
Spirits for a good, or at least an innocent purpose. Black Magic
is an attempt to communicate with Evil Spirits for an Evil pur­
pose/' It must, however, be added that when the white magician
calls (or attempts to call) up an evil spirit for the purpose of com­
pelling it to perform good works, his activities are at once besmutted
with the smoke of hell.
§ 3. Although the performance of black magic often involves a
pact with the Devil, or one of his numerous agents, the practitioner
is not necessarily a Devil-worshipper; in fact, the evil spirit called
to assist may be bullied and insulted by the magician. Spirits of
evil are generally invoked when the object of the magician cannot
be gained by sympathetic magic of either the homeopathic or the
contagious variety, though the one or the other of these is usually
considered potent enough to produce disease in, or even bring death
to an enemy. The aid of spirits is enlisted when the magician wishes
to acquire treasure or to gain a difficult or forbidden sexual object.
Dr. Faustus, in Christopher Marlowe's great drama, desired Helen
of Troy; and when his familiar spirit summoned her from the
nether regions he greeted her with the immortal words:
Is this the face that launched a thousand ships
And burned the topless towers of Ilium?
Faustus, as a magician, was not powerful enough to invoke Helen
without diabolic aid.
§4. The spells, incantations, and rites used in the performance
of maleficium (that is, malicious magic) are in the main much less
gory, coprophilic, and revolting than the ritualistic acts employed
in the larger lunacy of veritable human demons like Gilles de Laval;
but no matter how complex the magical practice may be in per­
formance, and how involved the system of beliefs behind it, analysis
reveals that magic is based on two, and only two principles : “ First,
that like produces like, or that an effect resembles its cause ; and,
second, that things which have once been in contact with each
other continue to act on each other at a distance after the physical
contact has been severed " (Sir James Frazer, The Golden Bough).
§ 5. It is to the first principle that the “ classical" act of black
magic, namely, the destruction of an enemy by the destruction of
his image, belongs. In the words of Sir James Frazer again : “ . . .
Thousands of years ago it was known to the sorcerers of ancient
India, Babylon, and Egypt, as well as of Greece and Rome, and
at this day it is still resorted to by cunning and malignant savages
in Australia, Africa and Scotland." The first necessity is to con­
struct a puppet of wax, wood, wool, or any perishable material.
If the hair, nail-parings, spittle or anything that has been in contact
with the intended victim’s body is incorporated into the figure of
the puppet, then the charm is more powerful in so much that the
Second principle, contagion, comes into play. The image, having
49
Black Magic Black Magic
been successfully manufactured, the next step is to baptize it with
the name of the intended victim so that there can be no mistake
concerning the identity of the person who is to suffer. By this act
the image becomes as violable as the living being it represents, and
the tortures may commence at midnight. Slow roasting is the
commonest method, and accompanying it is the repetition, over and
over again, of words to this effect: “ It is not wax that is roasting
here, but the heart and blood, the stomach and liver and lungs of
so-and-so/1 This has to be repeated every night, and sure enough
within seven days of the spell being commenced the victim will fall
sick, generally of a " strange malady ” or “ a fever that seems con­
suming all within/' It is useless for physicians to attempt a cure,
the patient will waste away, growing thinner and suffering mental
and physical agonies till merciful death supervenes.
§ 6. If the above amiable course is embarked upon purely as a
matter of revenge, naturally enough no attempt will be made to
speed the process up, in fact the slower the fire the finer the fun;
but should there be a little matter of a legacy, for instance, and
impatient creditors—then, provided that the roasting has been con­
tinued for not less than seven nights, the victim may be dispatched
rapidly by either dropping the image into the fire and so burning
it to ash, or by driving a nail—preferably a rusty one— into the
heart, or lung, or stomach, meanwhile explaining that not the heart
or lung or stomach of the image is being pierced but the corre­
sponding organ of so-and-so. The result is that, with or without
a scream of bitterest anguish, so-and-so drops dead from a sudden
fatal attack in the organ thus miraculously destroyed. Driving
nails, not too deep, but very close together is another way of tor­
turing the victim, the pains under such treatment being of the
“ pricking " rather than the “ burning " variety.
§ 7. The foregoing could be put into practice by any ordinary
person with sufficient malice, and carried through by patience and
powerful concentration during the roasting. If it did not work, it
was because the victim had somehow become cognizant of the
procedure, and was himself working counter-spells. The ill-success
was not qualitative but quantitative; hence, in the pursuit of
stronger and yet stronger spells, the ancient grimoires were closely
studied, the evil principle of every obsolete religion called upon by
name, and the blood of innocent victims poured upon the ¿tar of
the Devil.
The Knights Templars
§ 8. In 1118-19 Geoffrey de Saint-Omer and Hugh de Payens,
together with seven other crusading Knights, formed the Order of
the Knights Templars of the Temple of Solomon, for the overt
purpose of offering protection to Christian pilgrims journeying to
the Holy Land. Their secret object, so it is (or was) said, was to
rebuild the Temple of Solomon. The Sword and Trowel were part
of their insignia. They attracted numerous members and became
exceedingly rich, not only because many wealthy men were among
50
Black Magic Black Magic
the recruits, but also because they developed into a vast trading
concern—in fact, were the main source of commercial intercourse
between the East and the West. They converted themselves into
a “ secret " Order and held their meetings at night, behind closed
and closely guarded doors. Popular opinion associated them with
indulgence, intemperance and luxury, hence catch-phrases of the
day ran, “ as drunk as a Templar " and “ avoid the Templar's
kiss." This reputation resulted in their unpopularity : rumour piled
up upon rumour; their secret meetings were considered Devil­
worshipping rites; and at last King Philip IV of France, together
with Pope Clement V, arranged for the arrest of one hundred of the
leaders. The trial dragged out to the length such affairs were apt
to do at that period, and accompanied by torture, resulted in many
confessing to the practice of black magic. It appeared that initiates
were requested to renounce Christ and spit upon the Cross ; to strip
naked and both give and receive the osculum obsccenum, and to
indulge in homosexual practices. The Order possessed an idol
named Baphomet, the effigy of a human head, with glittering eyes.
Of this it has been said that it was of wood and that it was of
metal; that it had a beard, and that it had no beard; that it
possessed three faces and that it possessed only one; and that it
was not an idol but a picture. The fact is that there were many
heads of Baphomet; no less than four in England alone. The idol,
standing as a symbol of the " Baptism of Wisdom," represented
deity. Neophytes in the Order were informed that this was the
true God and that in future their prayers must be addressed to him.
Further accusations against the Templars were that their idol was
meant to represent Mahomet, and that they were an extension of
the sect of Assassins, intent on raising Islam over Christianity;
that at their secret sessions they worshipped a great black cat which
was really the Devil personified; that they murdered children to
use their blood and fat in grim demonological rites; that etc., etc.,
etc. Their possession of great wealth was very much against them
because, in the first place, it was the main object of both King and
Pope to obtain this ; and in the second, black magic was notoriously
practised for the purpose of obtaining treasure, so that a suspect's
wealth was generally regarded as sufficient proof of his sorcery.
Some of the accusations against the Order were certainly well founded,
with the result that many of the Templars were executed and their
treasure, no matter how ill-gotten, escheated to the Crown—and
shared with the Mitre. Rumour has it that those who were pardoned
banded themselves together again into the secret societies that still
exist. " . . . Before dying, the Grand Master of the Temple
organized Esoteric Masonry. Within the walls of his prison he
provided four Metropolitan Lodges—at Naples for the East, Edin­
burgh for the West, Stockholm for the North, and Paris for the
South. . . . In breaking the Sword of the Templars it was con­
verted into a dagger and their proscribed Trowels henceforth were
utilized only in the erection of tombs " (Eliphas Levi, History of
M agic, p. 271).
Black Magic Black Magic
Bluebeard
§ 9. Gilles de Laval,1 Lord of Rais, Marshal of Brittany—the
Bluebeard of fairy-story—was one of the members of the Court that
tried Joan of Arc for witchcraft; soon after, he had to face charges
of sorcery brought against himself. He was known as Bluebeard
on account of his facial hair being of a blue-black hue. The fairy­
tale version of his exploits, horrible as it may be, is perhaps the
most thoroughly expurgated narrative in literature.
§ 10. Whenever the Lord of Rais appeared in public he was
preceded by banner and cross, accompanied by chaplains attired in
cloth of gold, and surrounded by choir-boys who also were expensively
bedecked. It was considered a piece of good fortune by the peasants
of the district to have their boys chosen for the choir of his lordship ;
and though he demanded that the parents should never see their
offspring again, the sacrifice was deemed worth-while, for the Lord
of Rais always promised that the boys should be advanced in the
service and ultimately placed in the first positions in the land.
Laval’s castle at Machecoul was possessed of a sombre ivy-clad tower,
the entrance to which was bricked up because the owner declared
it to be in a ruinous condition within and likely to collapse at any
moment. In spite of this report the newly wed Madame de Rais,
who lived in great terror of her husband, had from time to time
seen weird red lights appearing in an upper aperture, but had of
course never dared to inform anyone, or herself ask questions con­
cerning the phenomenon.
§ II. Easter, 1440, the Lord of Rais, having attended divine
service in his private chapel, announced his intention of proceeding
to the Holy Land. His wife, being with child, begged that her
sister might be allowed to come and remain with her during his
absence, in which arrangement her husband acquiesced. Left
together, the two women discussed the strange character of Monsieur
de Rais, commented upon the fact of his constantly engaging new
choir-boys who seemed to disappear, and speculated much concerning
the ruinous tower out of which red lights sometimes came by night.
Prompted by curiosity, they sought about, and at last came upon a
secret door which gave entrance to the mysterious tower. Far from
being in a dilapidated condition, the staircase revealed traces of
comparatively recent repairs. Ascending, the adventuresses found
themselves in a chapel set out with all the appurtenances necessary
to Devil-worship. Above this was a chamber furnished with retorts,
crucibles, bottles and jars; in the centre of the room was a large
hearth fitted with bellows like a forge. It was clear that Laval
here worked as an alchemist, endeavouring to transmute base metals
into gold, and that his nocturnal activities about the furnace would
amply account for the weird red lights. Ascending yet higher, the
sisters found themselves in a room the walls of which were lined
with vessels containing blood, each bearing the name of the victim
and the date of slaughter. In the centre was a slab of blade marble
and upon it the body of a recently murdered choir-boy. So far,
1See also Alchemy, $33.
52
Black Magic Black Magic
there is nothing in the narrative calling for rejection. The Devil-
worship, the alchemistic laboratory, and the slaughter-chamber are
all in keeping with the general practice of black magic; it is also
possible that the curiosity of Madame got the better of her discretion
when she found herself supported by her sister ; but romance surely
enters in when the husband makes a dramatic return just in time
to find the two of them trespassing in the forbidden tower. It is
more probable that the women left the nauseating place quite safely
and made no mention of their discovery at the time. To resume:
Gilles had not gone to Palestine, but had only made a journey to
consult a renegade priest who was an accomplice in the magical
practice. Possibly the priest was the worse knave of the two and
the leader in the unsavoury practices, and, finding himself unable to
transmute metals by the use of choir-boys* blood, and fearing that
before long Laval would turn upon him with physical violence
(which it is interesting to note, simple and commonplace though it
is, cannot be combated by black magic), had made up his mind to
back out by demanding something that he suspected Laval would
refuse to grant—namely, the blood of his own unborn child. There
was nothing squeamish about the Lord of Rais, however, and,
according to legend, finding his wife in the tower upon his return,
he took her presence as an omen of good luck and success. Sister
Ann had already run up to the battlements from whence she saw
the brothers coming, and so the murder was averted in the nick
of time.
§ 12. This is too romantic by far. It is more likely that sister
Ann went away at the termination of her visit, without any trouble,
and subsequently told the brothers of Laval’s profane activities,
whereupon they rode over to interview him, primarily to advise
him to cease terrifying their sister. It was certainly the brothers-
in-law who effected Laval’s arrest, probably after investigating the
tower for themselves during the master’s absence. Madame de
Laval and her unborn child were not sacrificed to alchemistic experi­
ment, but had the arrest not been accomplished in time there can
be no doubt there would have been that double murder added to
the list of charges brought against Gilles de Laval. At the trial he
stoutly denied all knowledge of black magic, which was only to be
expected, but he pleaded guilty to the murder of the boys: indeed,
numerous skeletons were produced in evidence against him. Ques­
tioned why he had committed these outrages if not for magical
purposes, he declared that it had been simply for pleasure. Needless
to add, he and his accomplices went to the stake, where they were
strangled and then burnt to ashes, being found guilty on all counts.
Later, there was a rumour set afoot that the entire story was false
and had been engineered against him for political reasons. Whilst
this latter aspect is far from inadmissible, it is important to note
that in the light of modern knowledge the sadistic elements in the
case point to Laval’s insanity, and the practice of black magic with
its megalomaniacs! delusions is quite in keeping.
53
Black Magic Black Magic
Infernal Necromancy
§ 13- " I can call spirits from the vasty deep/' says Owen Glen-
dower, and Hotspur replies:
" W h y , so ca n I, or so can a n y m an ,
B u t w ill t h e y co m e w h en y o u d o c a ll for th e m ? "
It is presumable that Shakespeare believed if not in Glendower's
occult powers, at least in those of Dr. Dee,1 who was Good Queen
Bess’s Court Magician. Dee, a scholar and a keen student, had earned
a bad name for himself at the university by studying through those
hours which his contemporaries spent in riotous living. Later, in
contriving some striking stage effects, he was stigmatized as a
magician ; but his reputation is, on the whole, fairly free from
blemish. Although his house at Mortlake was a veritable alchemistic
laboratory, he did little more in the black art than read the future
in a crystal, an occupation so innocent that it might even be con­
sidered as white magic. It is to Edward Kelley,1 rather than John
Dee, that the practice of infernal necromancy may be attributed,
and in almost every illustrated book dealing with occultism, there
is to be found a reproduction of an old print— “ Edward Kelley, a
Magician, in the Act of invoking the Spirit of a Desceased Person.”
In a churchyard, beneath a sombre yew-tree dark with foliage, the
two experimenters stand—so close together that at first glance they
appear like one man with two heads—in the centre of a magical
diagram. One of them holds aloft a flaming torch while the other
points downwards with his wand to those signs of the Zodiac and
those names of the archangels of which the diagram is composed.
The scene is illuminated by a waning moon shining through a rift in
heavy clouds, and a jagged flash of lightning adds a stark brilliance.
The Norman-towered church looks very silent indeed, the tombstones
lean at all angles, while, in answer to the summons of the two
sorcerers, a figure clad in mouldy cerements stand stiffly before
them.
§ 14. Modem spiritualism claims to have communication with the
spirits of the departed; but between necromancy and present-day
psychic experimentation is a gulf as wide as the ages. Spiritualism
comes into the category of white magic; necromancy is most
definitely black. Blood of a living and bones of a dead person are
necessary to its successful practice. The proceedings must commence
at midnight. First, an aperture needs to be made in the grave;
next, the Zodiacal circle must be described and the flaming brand
turned in the direction of each of the cardinal points ; then, striking
three times on the tomb, the sorcerer chants: “ By the virtue of
the Holy Resurrection, and the torments of the damned, I conjure
and exorcise thee, Spirit of [name] deceased, to answer my liege
demands, being obedient to these Sacred ceremonies, on pain of
everlasting torment and distress. Berald, Beroald, Balbin, Gab,
Gabor, Agaba, Arize, Arize, I charge and command thee.” After
1 S ee Alchemy, § 37.
54
Black Magic Black Magic
•
this the ghost comes forth from the grave and obligingly answers
questions, provided the person named has died a natural death. In
the case of suicide the procedure is different: the wand must be
decorated with the head of an owl and a bunch of St. John’s-wort,
and the tomb or burial-place must be struck nine times, a different
cantrip being repeated over it. The practice of infernal necromancy
was always for some unhallowed purpose, generally to obtain the
direction to the hiding-place of buried or concealed treasure ; hence
misers, or reputed misers, were more likely to be subjected to such
post-mortem disturbances. The conjuration used to this end reads :
“ I adjure and command thee, Human Spirit, to appear before me
under the similitude of fire. By the ineffable Name Jehovah . . .
by the power of His justice, which expelled the demons, enchaining
them in the infernal abyss. . . . By the ineffable name Tetra-
grammaton, inscribed on this rod, answer me without deception or
equivocation. . . . I command thee by the most holy name of
God, who hath condemned thee to frequent this place wherein thou
hast buried thy treasure. . . . Colpriziana, Offina, Alta, Nestera,
Fuaro . . . Omgroma, Epyn, Seyok . . . Galliganon, Zogogen,
Ferstifon . . . ," etc., etc.
§ 15. These meaningless words were favourites with sorcerers ; it
seems the more polysyllabic and senseless they were the greater
the power they possessed. Abracadabra, now degenerated into the
magic word used by the “ principal boy ” in almost any Christmas
pantomime, was once taken very seriously, and, written in triangular
acrostic form, considered first among the sorcerers' “ words of power."
Not only meaningless words and signs of the Zodiac, but geometrical
figures and childish diagrams, called sigils (i.e., seals), were considered
of great virtue in the performance of profane miracles.
A Pact with Lucifer
§ 16. Any person who is sufficiently ambitious may become
possessed of treasure by entering into a pact with the Devil—this is
generally acknowledged. However, many enterprising young men
are unaware of the manner in which to open negotiations. Actually
it is a very simple matter. Begin by cutting with a new and unused
knife a rod of wild hazel that has never borne fruit. This operation
must be performed immediately the sun appears on the horizon.
Next, select a quiet room or the vaults of a ruinous castle, repair
there at midnight, describe a triangle and set two burning candles
beside it ; then write the Holy Name round the triangle, stand
within, and, holding the hazel-wand, say: “ Emperor Lucifer, Master
of all the revolted Spirits, I entreat thee to favour me in the adjuration
which I address to thy mighty minister Lucifuge Rofocale, being
desirous to make a pact with him. I beg thee also, O Prince
Beelzebuth, to protect me in my undertaking. 0 Count Astarot!
be propitious to me, and grant that to-night the great Lucifuge
may appear to me under human form, and free from evil smell. . . .
Obey promptly, or thou shalt be eternally tormented by the power
of the potent words. . . . Aglow, Tetragram, . . . Stimulamaton,
55 *•"7
Black Magic Black Magic
. . . ,” etc., etc. Lucifuge has no choice, he must appear and will
enter into a pact whereunder he is obliged to open the coffers of the
world's wealth, in return for the body and soul of the supplicant in
twenty years' time. A very fair bargain. The contract must be
written on virgin parchment, the signatory's own blood being used
for ink. All that remains to be done is follow the fiend wherever
he may lead—up the chimney—through the air—anywhere—for the
journey will end safely before a heap of concealed treasure, be it
doubloons, pieces-of-eight, ingots of silver, or glittering gems. The
parchment must be cast upon the top of this pile, and as much
treasure as can be conveniently carried may be taken away. Lucifuge,
on command, will convey the newly-created nabob back to the
meeting-place, arriving whence, he must walk backward into the
charmed triangle before dismissing the fiend. This process may be
repeated at frequent intervals: for once the pact has been duly signed,
Lucifuge, like a man of his word, will appear whenever called during
the period covered by the contract, at the termination of which he
will arrive with a flourish, unbidden, to claim his just reward. But,
according to Dr. Louis Berman (Food and Character, p. 124), the
average human body is worth only about four shillings, and a soul
that has been familiar with the fiend for twenty years cannot be
worth much more; hence Lucifuge, at the best, gets a very poor
recompense for his faithful, valuable and unfailing service. At the
worst he gets nothing, for by describing the correct sigil, and repeating
the appropriate cantrip, the signatory may at the last moment
renounce the Devil and then be rebaptized. This piece of belated
piety, however, savours so very strongly of sharp practice that
neither the diagram nor the words will be revealed here. A. E.
Waite, in his Book o f Black M agic (privately printed), gives all
formulas in full, and foolish and childish though they are, Montague
Summers says (History of Witchcraft, p. 68): “ In several grimoires
and books of Magic, such as The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts
. . may be found goetic rituals as well as invocations, and if these,
fortunately for the operators, are occasionally bootless, it can only
be said that Divine Power holds in check the evil intelligences. . . .
Any such pact which may be entered into with the demon is not in
the slightest degree binding. Such is the authoritative opinion of
S. Alphonsus, who lays down that a necromancer or person who has
intercourse with evil spirits now wishing to give up his sorceries is
bound: (1) to abjure and to renounce any formal contract or any
sort of commerce whatsoever he may have entered into with demonic
intelligences ; (2) to bum all such books, writings, amulets, talismans,
and other instruments as appertain to the Black Art (i.e. crystals,
planchettes, ouija-boards, pagan periapts, and the like); (3) to
bum the written contract if it be in his possession, but if it be believed
that it is held by the Demon, there is no need to demand its restoration
since it is wholly annulled by penitence. . . ."
Yet, in spite of the authoritative and good St. Alphonsus, we repeat
that from the demonological point of view, the Devil must first be
renounced through a specific sigil and cantrip—failing which, all the
56
Black M agic Black Magic
penitence in life cannot help I In fact, if such a case came before the
English courts, the Devil would get judgment in his favour on a
point of equity.
§ 17. It must, however, in support of St. Alphonsus and Montague
Summers, be acknowledged that the Devil is notoriously easy to
cheat, which suggests that he is in the main a rather naive, simple-
hearted, good-natured fellow. Dr. Ernest Jones says (On Nightmare,
p. 175) : " A favourite device was to bargain with the Devil for the
sale of a soul on condition that he carried out some work before
cock-crow, and then at the last moment make a cock crow by pinching
it. . . . In all these stories the Devil was circumvented by guile,
never by force " ; hence, when the old woman at Aberystwyth lost
her cow, and saw it on the other side of the Afon Mynach gorge, she
entered into a pact with the Devil—in one of his favourite disguises,
a monk's habit—that he should throw a bridge across, and in return
receive the first living thing to pass over. It was done—instanter !
“ Won't you try its strength, madam ? " asked Satan, but the
crafty old beldam, tossing a stone along the newly and miraculously
constructed path, commanded her dog—“ Go— fetch it 1" In this
case of the Devil's bridge, one cannot feel sorry for the Evil One (the
careless making* of contracts is always reprehensible), but the
R.S.P.C.A. might take action.
§ 18. Malice and money, two powerful motivators of black magic,
figure no less largely in the annals of sorcery than do sexual aims.
It was part of every witch's business to supply love-potions, and
not a magician practised his art without working spells to attract
women ; in fact, these performances hardly called for active and
unequivocal magicianship. Homoeopathic magic was the underlying
principle, and the only apparatus needed was the effigy fashioned in
wax—not to be tortured by fire and iron nails, as in the malefic
usage, but caressed and crooned over with the intention of influencing
the person it represented. Only when the desire was of a perverted
nature, or the object difficult of attainment because of social barriers,
was the assistance of demons invoked, for in these circumstances
supreme skill in the infernal art was necessary.
The Hand of Glory
§ 19. Those magicians who did not relish the idea of entering
into a pact with the Evil One, but nevertheless wished for an accumu­
lation of wealth, were accustomed either to obtain for themselves
invisibility (a somewhat long and complicated process requiring the
head of a dead man, five black beans, a bottle of virgin brandy, and
much knowledge, skill and patience), or, alternatively, to equip
themselves with a Hand of Glory, both being invaluable accessories to
housebreaking. For the manufacture of this latter appurtenance,
the hand of a gibbeted felon is requisite. It might prove rather
difficult to obtain nowadays, but in the good old times there was
almost sure to be a miscreant hanging in chains on the local heath.
The extremity, when procured, had to be wrapped in a piece of
winding-sheet and well squeezed to drive out any blood that might
s.o. 57 e
Black Magic Black Magic
remain—after which, covered in salt and spices, it was kept in an
earthenware jar for a period of fifteen days and then dried in the
sun. The extracted fat, mixed with wax and formed into a candle,
could cast a glow which petrified all whom it fell upon, thus making
entry to any building a safe proceeding. Traces of this ghoulish
practice linger to-day, and recent reports have been received of cases
occurring in Russia, murder being committed to obtain the fat of a
virgin for the purpose of manufacturing such magic candles. Thus
we see that the demoniac layer of human nature is just beneath our
skin the whole time, and such manifestations are but the flash of
frightening flame issuing from the inferno of our superstitions. All
over Asia and Europe there is evidence of this smouldering menace to
civilization, and the very widespread belief in the power of the evil
eye may be regarded as the lurid danger signal.
Modem Malefictum
§20. The conviction that an envious or malicious person can
contrive disaster for one by a mere glance charged with malign
magic, is not confined to ignorant peasants : highly successful men—
millionaires—have been known to dread it to such an extent, that
though consciously superiorto the wearingof a talisman for protection,
their unconscious mind has produced a hypochondriacal illness in
them. “ He is a millionaire, but he's a sick man— I don't envy
him! " thinks the beggar, brimming with health and vigour—so
Croesus feels safe. The evil eye is not always a conscious or cherished
possession. The owner may have received the reputation much
against his or her will or intention, a few coincidences being sufficient
to cause the application of the stigma. In the East, the passage of a
person so branded will set all and sundry running to hide, while
domestic animals will be hastily driven away or their heads covered.
In Europe, as a means of protection, charms and amulets inscribed
with words of a highly obscene character are carried upon the person ;
and, in the event of such a talisman having been lost or mislaid, a
believer in the evil eye will, in the presence of a reputed possessor,
take the precaution of making a lewd gesture. This very prevalent
modem superstition is essentially no different from the medieval
belief in black magic. The comforting belief that “ such things
cannot happen nowadays " is false. Sir James Frazer, in M an, God
and Immortality (p. 206), says : “ The theory of inspiration or posses­
sion is commonly invoked to explain all abnormal mental states,
particularly insanity, or states of mind bordering on it, so that persons
more or less crazed in their wits, and particularly hysterical or
epileptic patients, are for that very reason thought to be particularly
favoured by the spirits and are therefore consulted as oracles, their
wild and whirling words passing for the revelation of a higher power,
whether a god or a ghost, who considerately screens his too dazzling
light under a thick veil of dark sayings and mysterious ejaculations."
" Revivalist " meetings often end in a hysterical epidemic, demanding
police and even military action to check the contagion. The raw
material of belief in black magic is plentiful, and very present in our
Black M ass of St. Secoinb Booker
midst. Wireless telephony and aeronautics are too commonly
understood to feed man's craving for the mysterious. The very
concrete fear of a future war is insufficient to swamp his dread of
the unknown. We are still as children, brave in the face of grave
danger, but filled with the exquisitely painful enjoyment of a formless,
self-created fear.
J. F.
Book recommended:
Blackwood, A ., Ancient Sorceries (Collins, 1927).
[M r. J a m es B ra n c h C a b e ll w rite s am u sin g fictio n w ith a d em on ological b a c k ­
grou n d . N o ta b ly , Jurgen (1933), Figures of Earth (19 21), an d The Cream of
the Jest (1923), all p u b lish ed b y Jo h n L o n g .]
Black Mass of St. Secoine. See Bletonism. Divination by cur-
Devil Worship, § 5. rents.
Blackmore, Sir Richard. See
English Literature and the Occult,
§ 5-
Blackwood, Algernon. See Eng-
lish Literature and the Occult,
§§ 18, 19.
Blake, William. See Fairies,
§ 2, and English Literature and
the Occult, § 9.
Blavatsky, Madame. " Of theo-
sophical fame, we find that
those who knew her intimately
state she was possessed of the
most conflicting characteristics
possible to imagine ; the reason
being, according to occult know­
ledge, that she possessed the
power of vacating her ownbody,
so that other entities—and
sometimes ones of a very high
order such as Adepts—could
enter in and so function through
*her 9 99 [Cyril Scott, in The
Adept of Galilee (Routledge,
1920)]. In the language of
rationalism, Blavatsky would
be termed “ emotionally un­
stable ”—to make the very
least of it. In the above-men­
tioned book, Scott maintains
the thesis that Jesus Christ was
a Yogi.
Blodgett, Mrs. Bessie. See
Spiritualism, Part III, § 37.
Bluebeard. See Alchemy, § 33,
and Black M agic, § 9.
Bodin, Jean. See Literature of
Occultism, § 17.
Boehme (B5hme), Jacob. See A l­
chemy, §§ 4, 41. [A book to
note is : Herman Vetterling's
The Illuminate of Gorlitz
(1922).]
Boggart (or -ard). In North
England, a type of demon sup­
posed to haunt the scene of
violence, or a gloomy spot.
Bogle. A goblin.
Boguet, Henri. See Werewolf,
§6.
Bogy, Bogey. A spectre, usually
of terrifying appearance.
Bon Pa Cult. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 51-2.
Bonus, Peter. SeeAlchemy, §30.
Booker, John. See Literature of
Occultism, § 26.
59
Book of Changes Bryony
Book of Changes. See Chinese Bradley, D ennis. See Spiritual-
Occultism, § 15. ism, Part II, § 45.
Book of the Coming Forth by
Day. See History o f Occult
Ideas, §§ 24-30.
Book of the Dead, the. See^
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 24-
30.
Book of Enoch. Supposed to |
have been written in Hebrew
about 100 b.c., giving a legend
of the Angels' descent to Earth
and their teaching magic to
men. Translated into English
by Archbishop Lawrence, 1821.
Book of the Gates. See History
of Occult Ideas, §§ 24-30.
Books on Occultism. SeeLitera­
ture o f Occultism.
Bradshaw, ghost of. See Ghosts,
§8.
Brahma. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 46.
Brahmadaitya. See Indian Occult­
ism, § 13.
Brahmanas. See Indian Occult­
ism, passim.
Braid, James. See Literature of
Occultism, § 32.
Braidism. SeeLiterature of Occult­
ism, § 32.
Breuer, Dr. J. See Literature of
Occultism, § 34.
Boothby, Guy, dealt with the
occult in the following novels:
D r. Nikola (Ward Lock, 1896),
Dr. Nikola’s Experiment (Hod-
der & Stoughton, 1899), and
Farewell, Nikola (Ward Lock &
Co., 1901).
Botanomancy. Divination by |
herbs.
Bottle-imp. See Mandrake, § 14. |
“ Brief of the Golden Calf,
the.” See Alchemy, § 43.
“ Brief Natural History, A.”
See Alchemy, § 44.
Broad, Professor. See Spiritual­
ism, Part III, § 47.
Broadbent, Charles. See Scott,
Cyril.
Bottomley, Gordon. See Eng­
lish Literature and the Occult,
Boule, Professor M. See H is­
tory o f Occult Ideas, § 8.
Bronte, Emily. See English L it­
erature and the Occult, § 18.
|Brothers of the Shadow. Black
Magicians.
IBrownie. See Fairies.
Bowles. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 9. Brown-Sequard. See Alchemy,
§ 7°-
Boyle, Robert. See Alchemy,
§ 46. Bryony. See Mandrake, § 13.
60
Buddha’s Hand
Buddha’shand. Aninediblecitron
terminating in finger-like pro­
cesses, called Po Shou in China.
It has a fragrant odour, and is
Buddhist O c c u l t is m
offered up to household gods at
the New Year Festival.
Buddhism. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 44, 53.
BUDDHIST OCCULTISM
§ 1. The founder of Buddhism, Siddartha, of the Gautama family
(chiefs of the Sakya clan), was bom about 625 B.c. His mother,
Queen Mahamaya, is supposed to have dreamed of a white elephant
before his birth, hence the white elephant became, and still is regarded
as, a sacred animal. The birth took place in the Lambini Grove,
near the town of Kapilavastu, the ruins of which lie just over the
British border of the United Provinces. The place is marked by a
pillar erected as an act of piety by the Emperor Asoka, and the
carved inscription is as clear to-day as when it was cut. Before
Gautama's birth a prophecy was uttered that he would become
either a universal monarch or a monk; besides that, there were
“ earthquakes . . . flowers bloomed . . . out of season . . . and
the ocean lost its saltiness and became sweet and refreshing." The
new-born child's body bore the thirty-two auspicious marks, so his
future greatness was settled.
§ 2. The exploits of his infancy are of a legendary nature, but
there is no doubt of his having been brought up in great luxury,
living in a palace surrounded by a garden, and in entire ignorance
of the ugliness and misery attending human destiny. A soothsayer
announced that the boy would begin his saintly career after seeing
the “ four signs—a decrepit old man, a diseased man, a dead man,
and a monk " ; whereupon the king placed a strong guard round
the garden, so that the four signs might not enter in. However,
Siddartha, on four successive occasions, went beyond the wall, and
each time beheld one sign. Another story of his conversion is that
having been brought up in ignorance of the existence of death, he
was puzzled one day at finding a dead rabbit (in some versions, a
pigeon) in the garden. His tutors were obliged to enlighten him
concerning the creature's condition, and from that hour he entered
upon a course of meditation and prayer.
§ 3. Whatever the influences that launched him on his holy path,
he commenced in the approved Hindu fashion by the practice of
asceticism, till at the end of six years, with an emaciated body he
fell senseless and was mistaken for dead. Recovering from the
trance, he declared the ascetic path to be the wrong one, that it was
“ like time spent in endeavouring to tie knots in air." Resuming a
normal diet, he left his companions in austerity, and went forth
again in search of the complete enlightenment, which is said to have
come upon him after spending some time living on alms beneath a
sacred tree. He then assumed the name of Sakyamuni, that is,
“ monk of the Sakya clan."
54. The dharraa (doctrine) of Buddha can hardly be styled a
61
Buddhist Occultism Buddhist Occultism
religion, in so much that it denies the existence of all gods and
demons, and teaches that man can reach perfection by living a
simple, self-restraining life till nirvana, an emotionless, blissful state,
is reached. He set up an ethical standard, the only system of rewards
and punishments being represented by karma, or the natural law of
cause and effect. He also denied the individual personality of man,
regarding each person as only a register of universal perception (a
point of viewnowbeing reachedby modernscience, by way of Einstein,
and the atomic theory). Nothing could be more transcendental
than this simple teaching of the Buddha, but man is constituted to
enjoy complications : even before the Master's death (at the age of
eighty), the Hindu philosophy of transmigration and reincarnation
had become confounded with karma so that it came to mean, not
"cause and effect" but " the maturing of deeds" (karmavipaka),
which implies an infinitude of rewards and punishments. Con­
tamination did not end here : the system was expanded to include
all the Hindu gods and devils, who were represented as suffering or
being rewarded for previously bad or good karma. After this, the
great Buddhist schism occurred: the Hinayana, or Lesser Vehicle,
endeavoured to adhere to the enlightened, non-theistic, passive
teaching of the Master ; the Mahayana, or Greater Vehicle, became
a species of Theosophy embracing " all castes, creeds, colours "— and
superstitions, witchcraft, demonology and sorcery of the countries
to which it travelled. The Mahayana’s priests soon evolved a
pantheon, based on old lunar and solar cults, with Amitabha Buddha,
a personification of the principle of Enlightenment, as chief deity.
So the system that aimed at the destruction of superstitions became
instead a preserving medium for them.
§ 5. Mahayanistic Buddhism, spread in the one direction to
include gods and demons, balances the addition by embracing
animals, plants, and eveninanimate objects. The dharma of Buddha,
the Universal Law, or Light of the World, shines for all things : a
stone may be reincarnated a creature, and creatures rise in the scale
to human beings, and they, by following the Noble Eightfold Path,
may rise again in holy works, through stages of initiation, to Buddha-
ship.
§ 6. All the laws and principles, all the commandments and
sermons, are contained in a book called The Sutra or the Net of
Brahma. Very early in the history of Buddhism this was translated
into Chinese and re-titled the Fan-wang king. In China the new
religion found favour, and as it is there believed that sacred writings
avert evil from mankind, it was considered a virtue to increase the
number of such scripts. For this purpose monks from China went
long pilgrimages into India, where they learned Sanscrit and Pali,
translated Buddhist literature into their native language, and also
contributed a great many volumes of original matter on Buddhist
philosophy. A catalogue dating from a.d. 518 gives details of
2,213 works.
§ 7. Although Mahayanistic Buddhism is debased in comparison
with the teaching of the Master, these books make it dear that a
62
Buddhist Occultism Buddhist Occultism
very high moral code was the warp and woof of Brahma's net.
Compassion, disinterestedness, and altruism are its three major
virtues. The interdiction against killing is absolute, therefore no
Buddhist may eat meat or fish; it is even forbidden to buy or sell
animals, or keep cats and dogs as pets, because they are carnivorous.
No Buddhist may trade in weapons or sharp implements that might
be used as weapons ; neither may he, though in a high State appoint­
ment, act as an ambassador, in case, through his medium, a war
should ensue. The Buddhist version of " Thou shalt not steal''
includes the giving of short weight. The interdiction against lying
includes also the discussing of other people's faults. The spirit of
revenge may not be entertained— even against the murderer of one's
parents ; and slave-trading and -keeping was prohibited over fifteen
hundred years ago.
§ 8. These humanitarian and moral recommendations should have
made of Buddhism a world religion ; however, quite the contrary is
the case. In India it has been utterly crushed and destroyed by
the demon-worshipping cults that gibber dangerously behind Hindu­
ism. In China, in the year a.d. 845, Confucianismgained the ascend­
ancy, and about forty-five thousand Buddhist monasteries were
demolished and the inmates forced to return to the secular life in
obedience to the Emperor Wu Tsung’s decree. After this, the
Ta-Ts'ing Luh Li code of anti-Buddhist laws was drawn up and
remains in force to this day, forbidding a person, under any circum­
stances, to become a Buddhist at an earlier age than forty, nor even
then without State sanction ; hence, in the whole of vast China,
only a few dozen official Buddhist monasteries are now to be found.
Nevertheless, Buddhist sects abound everywhere, and owing to the
severity of the Ta-Ts'ing Luh Li, they take the form of secret
societies, and without adequate spiritual guidance exercise only
Tantric Buddhism. This is actually not Buddhism at all, but a
form of witchcraft, as practised in Tibet. A secret society, and
more especially one with a demonological background, is always
useful to political agitators, who can easily represent sedition,
revolution, and bloodshed as divine work; consequently, the life­
blood of China is drained away through the very arteries that should
supply its strength.
§ 9. Tantric Budhism is of two kinds: a cultus of the right
hand, equivalent to white magic, and a cultus of the left hand,
equivalent to black magic. The Tantrism of the right hand is not
very different in purpose and practice from the Yogism of India;
however, it very rarely, if ever, exists alone, and is in effect simply a
series of students' exercises in preparation for left-hand Tantrism.
The ultimate manifestation of Tantric ability is the performance of
a Sadhana (i.e., the evocation of a god). The instructor in Tantrism
is the guru, who is believed to be an incarnation of the Buddha,
and must be worshipped as a god by his pupil. After years of ascetic­
ism, and propitiation to one or more of the numerous demoniac
deities, the Tantrika becomes a master of breath-control and trance.
He then, “ On a chosen day . . . goes to a solitary place, either
63
Buddhist Occultism Buddhist Occultism
auspicious—a wood or the bank of the river—or loathsome—a
cemetery—according to the purpose. He sits there at ease in a
purified spot and fulfils in order the different acts of . . . offering
up flowers and perfumes, either mental or real, to the host of Buddhas.
. . . He continues in the same style . . . by dwelling on the
essential voidness of all things [and so acquires] both merit (punya)
and wisdom (jnana): all this is only a preparation to the rite itself.”
In such magic, as in all other kinds, great importance is attached to
the knowledge of the potent word or sentence. In this case it is
both: the word is called bija, or “ seed,” meaning seed of the god ;
and the sentence is termed a vidya; its repetition is a force too
great for the god invoked, and he is controlled by it in the same way
that a hypnotized person is influenced by the operator. The Tantric
rite commences by meditation on the bija of the god chosen. Yama
is the god of death. He may be destroyed by the demon-god,
Yamantaka, whose bija is ” hum.” This syllable is written on a
disk and the contraption revolved rapidly about a spindle, the
Tantrika concentrating on, and repeating, the sound till ” the ascetic
causes to arise from *hum ' the fearful form of the god Yamantaka,
hair bristling, blue, with six faces, six arms and six feet, riding
astride a wild bull, adorned with a garland of skulls— exceedingly
frightful.” The preliminary and the first part of the rite thus
accomplished, the second part begins. Having the demi-god before
him, under complete control, the ascetic meditates upon himself and
the god, imagining that he is himself the god, until he is convinced
that identity exists between them. This is a curious metaphysical
twist of reasoning, but nevertheless it is sound enough, for so soon
as the delusion of identity is complete, the ascetic possesses all the
powers that properly belong exclusively to the deity. He has but
to utter a wish in the voice of, and couched in the terms that would
be employed by the god, for that wish to be immediately fulfilled.
§ io. A. Foucher, from whose learned study the foregoing descrip­
tion of the Tantric rite is quoted, points out that the practitioner of
such magic runs a grave danger of invoking the wrong deity, for he
is enabled to visualize the god only from the description given in the
Tantric treatises, and any slight misreading, and consequent mental
misrepresentation, would be fatal.
§ i i . The supreme morality of Hinayanic Buddhism does not
appear in Tantrism. Instead of an absolute prohibition of alcohol,
a mild form of drunkenness is permitted in the rites; rigid vege­
tarianism is not considered necessary, afid the Linga (phallus) is an
object of worship. There exists also a set of rites called stripuja, or
the worship of women, in which obscene and criminal acts are per­
formed, and regarded as expressive of the highest virtue. This is
justified in much the same manner as Christian profligate sects
(which have arisen from time to time, the Russian Rasputin's being
among the latest) have rationalized their reprehensible behaviour:
the divine nature is represented as erotic, therefore erotic excess is in
imitation of the godhead.
§ 12. According to G. Willoughby Mead, Tantrism in its extreme
64
Buddhist Occultism Buddhist Occultism
form is not practised in China, but is confined to Tibet and India;
however, the Japanese sect of Shin-gon-shu practise at least the
right-hand cultus, and express the idea of erotic union in the inter­
twining of the fingers during meditation. Right-hand Tantrism
demands the threefold purification, namely, consecration of the
limbs, purification of the voice, and control of the thoughts. These
three mysteries have not yet been fully explained to Western scholars,
and the written records of the Shin-gon-shu sect are far too meagre
to afford material for adequate research.
§ 13. The earliest occult practice in Japan was obeisance to the
Kami, which signifies deity but was applied indiscriminately to any
natural phenomena that might arouse a feeling of awe or wonderment
in the beholders; thus men, beasts, birds, plants, seas, rivers,
mountains, wind and rain, all came to be deified and worshipped:
devils and goblins inhabited every conceivable comer, and any
untoward occurrence was attributed to their intervention. This
primitive form of pantheism soon developed into an ancestor-worship
cult called Shintoism, and the entire mixture absorbed Buddhism as
a dry sponge absorbs water. In a.d. 538 the Buddhist king of Korea
sent a royal present to the Japanese Court consisting of an image
of the Buddha, a set of sacred books, and the polite message that
the dharma was the most excellent of all laws and that it brought
immeasurable benefit to all believers. Two hostile Court parties
began to battle politically with the new faith in hand, and meanwhile
missionaries, magicians, and articles of Buddhist ritual were pouring
in from China. In a.d. 593, Prince Shotoku defeated Mononobe,
and this marked the beginning of Buddhist ascendancy. He drew
up a constitution proclaiming the “ Triune Treasure ” (i.e., Buddhist
single-heartedness) to be the ultimate object of human existence.
He built temples, pagodas, colleges and hospitals, and the new faith
appearedto bemaking great headway with all classes of the population.
By a.d. 749-69, under the Empress Koken, the ecclesiastical body
had assumed political power, which overshadowed imperial authority,
Yuge-no-Dokyo, an abbot and prime minister, almost succeeded in
usurping the throne, but the heroic royalist, Wake-no-Kiyomaro,
overthrew him. At about the same period there were earthquakes,
floods, and plagues, so the time was ripe for the royalists to put their
foot down firmly on the revolutionaries. All these calamities, they
said, were the direct result of the imported religion, and the old
Kamis were angry. This did not have the effect of stamping out
Buddhism, for an ingenious priest, Gyoki, argued successfully that
Buddha was really a manifestation of Amaterasu, the Shinto ancestor
goddess, and the blending process was continued for a period of about
fifty years. After this, affairs of Church and State ran very smoothly,
till Dengyo (767-822), an eminent Buddhist, went to China and came
home with the news that religious beliefs in Japan were all wrong.
He forthwith set about organizing the Tendai-shu sect, which
recognizes Buddha as the full measure of divine enlightenment.
Dengyo was popular at Court, and under him Buddhism in Japan
took a turn towards something more in accordance with the teaching
Bodge Boll Monster
of Gautama Sakyamuni ; but as no great man may live to do
unalloyed good without arousing envy and the spirit of competition,
Kobo (774-335), who was something of a genius in engineering, and
through this practical resourcefulness won for himself favour at
Court, founded the Shin-gon-shu sect of Tantric Buddhists. Tan-
trism easily embraced Shintoism, and the two systems remained
wedded from about 850 until 1868, when the new régime appointed
a Bureau of Ecclesiastical Affairs (Jingi Jimukyoku), the first act
of which was to declare a complete separation of Shintoism and
Buddhism. The former was stated to be the foundation of Japanese
national morality, and must henceforth be regarded as the State
religion. Shinto priests received official rank ; Buddhist images
were destroyed and the monks forced to return to secular life. By
1872 such enthusiasm had burned its fuel ; the Jingi Jimukyoku
went up in smoke and the Kyobusho (Ecclesiastical Department) was
formed. Under this organization Buddhism revived because both
Shinto and Buddhist priests were proclaimed to be of equal rank and
were styled Kyodoshoku—that is, “ official moral instructors of the
masses/'
§ 14. From about 1850 onward, Christianity flowed into Japan,
and by 1889 a special law was passed permitting official Christianity.
This stirred the slumbering Buddhists to forget their Master (if they
knew anything about him) and revengefully inaugurate a " Royalist
Buddhist Union," which was nothing more or less than a disguised
anti-Christian campaign, and therefore joined by the Shintoists also.
Japanese Christianity replied by becoming nationalized and sending
missionaries into the hinterland. Before long there were twenty-two
Protestant denominations in Japan, each having numerous adherents.
The Buddhists, remembering their Master (or learning about him in
the meantime), ceased to attack the Christians and set to work with
“ New Buddhism," a pietistic movement, putting the grand morality
of Buddhism into practice, and the dharma made converts every
day while the Christian sects experienced a corresponding decline.
Then came the Russo-Japanese War (1904-5), which gave the
Shintoists an excuse to emphasize the great necessity for adhesion
to the old gods, loyalty to the emperor and the ancestral spirits, and
filial dutifulness. However, this movement died a natural death,
and at present Buddhism and Christianity seem to be blending in
a manner very comfortably fitting to the Japanese mind.
J- F.
Book recommended :
Narasu, P. L., The Essence of Buddhism (Madras, 1912).
Budge, Sir E. A. Wallis. See Buguet. See Spiritualism, Part
Alchemy, § i ; History of Occult II, § 36.
Ideas, § 28 ; and White Magic,
§ 4. Bulimia. See Witchcraft, § 16.
Bugaboos. See Indian Occultism, Bull M onster. See History of
§ 13. Occult Ideas, § 58.
66
Burial Customs of Cave Man
Burial Customs of Cave Man.
See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 2- 3 -
Burmese Alchemy. SeeAlchemy,
the last paragraph (83).
Burning Witches. See Witch­
craft, § 10.
Burns. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 9.
Burton, Amy. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 29.
Butt, G. Baseden. Author of
Madame Blavatsky (Rider,
1926), Modern Psychism (Pal­
mer, 1925).
Buxton, Mrs. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 37.
Byron. See English Literature
and the Occult, §7 ; and Vam­
pire, the, § 15.
C
Cabbala (Kabbalah). SeeLitera­
ture of Occultism, §§ 1-14.
Cagliostro. See Alchemy, §§ 79-
82; and Psycho-therapy and
Psychic Phenomena, § 8.
Camere, Eva. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 19.
Cantrip. See Black Magic, § 14.
Capnomancy. Divination by
smoke.
Card-reading. See White Magic,
§ 4 .
Carington, Mr. W. See Spirit­
ualism, Part HI. § 7.
Chagrin
Carmot. The substance from
which the Philosophers* Stone
is supposed to be made.
Carp, the. See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 12.
Case, John. See Literature of
Occultism, § 27.
Castle of the Interior Man.
See Eight Stages of Yoga.
Castelot, Jollivet. See Alchemy,
§ 7-
Catatonia. See Psycho-therapy
and Psychic Phenomena.
Catoptromancy. Divination by
mirrors.
Cave Man, occult ideas of. See
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 2-7.
Cave Painting, occult ideas in.
See History of Occult Ideas,
§2.
Central America, occult ideas
in. See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 99-102.
Cephalomancy. Divination by
boiling an animal’s (generally
an ass’s) head. [In 1807 Southey
mentioned that the practice still
flourished in England.]
Ceremonial Magic. See Black
M agic, § 2 ; and White M agic.
Ceromancy. Divination by drop­
ping molten wax into water.
Chagrin (also Cogrino and Har-
GINN). An evil spirit in the
form of a large yellow hedgehog,
believed in by the gipsies.
67
Chakra
Chakra. A wheel. The wheel of
time, or the period of one of its
revolutions.
Changeling. See Fairies, § i.
Chaomancy. Divination by ap­
pearances in the air: also,
Aeromancy.
Chapman. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 12.
Charing Cross Spiritual Circle.
The first spiritualist Society
formed in London. “ London
Spiritualistic Union ” absorbed
it in 1857.
Chinese Occultism
Charms, T he.” See English
Literature and the Occult, § 3.
Charnock, T hos. See Literature
of Occultism, § 19.
Chaucer. See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 4, 21.
“ Chemical Pathway, T he.” See
Alchemy, § 36.
Chevreul. SeeSpiritualism,Part
I, § 26.
Children’s Crusade. See Psy­
cho-therapy and Psychic Pheno­
mena, § 21.
Children Witch-finders. See
Witchcraft, § 21.
CHINESE OCCULTISM
§ 1. About the middle of the thirteenth century, the two Venetian
brothers, Nicolo and Maffeo Polo, who were wealthy and enterprising
merchants, made their way into old Cathay and met the mighty
Kubla Khan. They were the first Europeans to have penetrated
China, and the great Khan was so favourably impressed that he
requested them to call again and bring with them Christian mis­
sionaries. Arriving home, they found Pope Clement IV dead, and
no successor appointed. They waited patiently, but the papal
interregnum was an unconscionably long one, so, returning to China,
they took young Marco, Nicolo's son, with them. The result was
that the Chinese did not become Christians, but the Europeans were
enriched by a fascinating book. Actually, the great Khan favoured
the European religion for political, not conscientious reasons: the
Christian, with only one soul, appeared spiritually inferior to the
Chinaman, who has two. The higher soul is called Hun, and is
equated to the Shen, or good spirits ; the lower soul is called Fo,
and is equated to the Kuei, orevil spirits. The Chinamanalsobelieves
in two great world-principles, Yang and Yin. The former is positive,
masculine, good and bright; the latter, negative, feminine, evil
and dark. The perpetual interactionof the two constitutes the entire
universe: everything that exists is a mixture of Yang and Yin in
varying proportions. This curious occult mechanism is applied by
the educated, to science and philosophy; but such lofty logic does
not come near the average Chinaman. His interest is centred in
his home and his family, the approval of his ancestral spirits, and
the goodwill of his neighbours; he entertains no theory of trans-
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
migration, but he very firmly believes in a host of dragons, goblins,
ghouls and demons.
§ 2. Ancestral spirits are Shen, of Yang origin, and therefore good,
although they are sometimes delegated to punish wrongdoers. The
Kuei, though capable of good, are always connected with death,
darkness and misfortune because they are of Yin nature. Foreigners,
being " foreign devils," are Kuei, and any supreme skill in conjuring,
or even in craftsmanship, is Kuei-work. Extremely beautiful and
intricate carvings in ivory or jade are so described. Unfriendly spirits
that have never been human are called Mo, and any supernatural
occurrence is Yao. There are perhaps twenty distinct varieties of
ghosts and demons, and hundreds of sub-varieties not always easily
distinguishable one from another ; but Kuei, Shen, Mo and Yao are
sufficiently diverse in their application to render the full list
dispensable.
§ 3. No self-respecting Chinaman fears the supernatural. As a
righteous man he knows that spirits visiting him are more likely
to be benign than malignant, so if a ghost calls upon him he simply
continues the work or recreation he is engaged upon, and calmly
awaits developments. If it so happens that the visitant is a Kuei,
then he boldly faces it, using a weapon of steel or iron, and goes
to the attack with prayer on his lips. It is not pious to curse or
be disrespectful in any way to even a Kuei, but strangely enough
one may "k ill" them—and though they are spirits they "die."
Chinese ghost-stories are particularly horrifying because the dénoue­
ment may be very unexpected. For instance : a virtuous man,
travelling with his wife and family, stopped at an inn a large section
of which was locked up and disused because it was haunted by a
Yao Kuei. The traveller offered to stay up all night and destroy
the ghost, and sitting fearlessly sword in hand, at about midnight,
was confronted by a venerable old gentleman with a long white
beard. The armed man rose to his feet, accused the newcomer of
being an evil demon and made ready to slay him. The old man
smiled and explained that he was not a Kuei, but the guardian spirit
of the district, and had called in person to thank the traveller for
his kindness— " Your arrival has disposed of the Yao Kuei . . . but
should they return before morning, have at them with your sword ! "
The old gentleman departed and the traveller remained on guard.
Soon, a strange black-faced creature entered the room—he struck
off its head. Later he had the same experience with a white-faced
creature ; and so it continued at intervals till cock-crow, when he
called the people of the inn to witness his victory. Each brought a
lantern and the haunted room was soon filled with light. The walls
were splashed and the floor streaming with blood, and there in a heap
lay the decapitated corpses of the traveller's wife, children, and
servants. " The Yao Kuei has tricked me I" he cried, and fell dead.
$4. A mandarin, or a Confucian scholar, is believed to have
power over many forms of Kuei. Hence, when a certain student
found one of his servants possessed, he sent for a magician, who
ordered a mandarin’s vermilion writing-brush to be procured,
69
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
vermilion being a Kuei-scaring Yang colour. When this implement
was brought, the magician instructed the student to trace specific
characters on the sick man's body: over his heart " rectitude " ;
upon his neck " sword " ; and on each hand “ fire." As soon as the
character for fire was traced the second time, a voice screamed out,
“ No 1 do not bum me—let me go 1" The Kuei fled and the
possessed man recovered. Just as evil spirits and ambassadors of
the Devil in Europe are reputed to be foolish and easily outwitted
so they are in China. The story is told of a reckless young man, a
rare toper, who on his way home from the tavern, just out of bravado
invoked an evil spirit and invited it to have a diink. Much to his
surprise—and horror—a demon appeared and accepted the invitation.
There was nothing for it but to go through with the business, so
together the man and the demon entered a handy tavern, where they
sat drinking, the human being chatting desperately to his unnatural
guest, that none but himself could see. Soon everyone thought he
was quite mad, but he was wiser than he seemed, for while he was
making himself affable he was scheming to escape. At length he
removed his hat and put it on the table. “ Excuse me—don't get
up—I’ll be back in a moment," he said; and once outside he fled,
The demon sat on for hours, looking at the hat, which he regarded
as a proof that his victim would return. However, at closing time
the potman, observing that the apparently crazy customer had left
a nice new hat behind him, decided to keep it : and next day, when
he put it on, he was killed by the Kuei, who stupidly thought it
must be the original owner who was wearing it.
§ 5. The illiterate Chinaman treats any piece of written or printed
paper with respect, for it may contain a wise maxim. To destroy
a book is a very great sin, and no one in China, in possession of his
senses, would do it ; besides, a sacred book is considered to have
power over Kuei.1 When a venerable scholar sitting up late at his
reading was attacked by a big white demon, he simply struck it with
the Buddhist book he was reading and the Kuei changed into a sheet
of paper. This he shut in the book. Later in the night he was
attacked by two little black demons, so he treated them to a whack
with the book, and folded two more sheets of paper between its
pages. In the middle of the night he was roused by a weeping
woman who charged him with having imprisoned her husband and
two sons in the volume. “ I have but three pieces of paper there,"
said the scholar; and at last the woman was forced to confess that
her husband and sons were sorcerers, and their souls were in the
paper. Out of compassion, the scholar returned one son to look
after her, and inquiring in the morning learned that a local man
and his son had both died suddenly during the night, leaving a
widow and a young boy.
§ 6. The Shen never let a good deed go unrewarded. Once, when
a poor student fording a river saw the body of a drowned woman,
and went to the trouble and expense of having it recovered from the
water and buried, he was recompensed the next night by a very
1See H ell (Buddhist), Tortures of,
70
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
beautiful dream, in which the soul of the woman sang him an
exquisitely melodious and enthralling song about the Purple Mansions
(heaven). Every word of it haunted his memory, and lo ! when in
due season he travelled to the Capital to sit for the highest literary
examination, he found that the ghost-song made adequate answer
to the question set, and so he passed with fullest honours.
5 7. Taoism, before Christ, before Confucius, and before Buddha,
was a religio-philosophical system that induced men to live as
hermits in the wilderness and become one with nature, which they
did to such good effect that they developed all the powers attributed
to the Indian Yogis. They also commercialized their abilities and
slowly but surely sank to the level of common fortune-tellers and
conjurers; nevertheless, they have to their credit, besides the
artistic renaissance of the Tang Dynasty, many marvellous stories ;
and if Taoism is no longer the official religion of China, it still possesses
its devotees and priests.
§ 8. It was a poor and ragged Taoist priest that begged a pear
from a well-to-do peasant who, having a glut, brought them to town
on a hand-cart and offered them for sale in the market-place. This
peasant, a surly fellow, instead of giving the fruit to the holy man
or at least refusing politely, began to curse and swear and make
himself very unpleasant indeed. The priest stood his ground,
rebuked him for his unnecessary passion, and gave him a chance to
atone by again asking for a pear. By this time a crowd had gathered,
but the peasant, even more annoyed at being exposed before so
many folk, again refused. The onlookers were hostile to so bad a
man, and, at last, one of them bought a pear for the poor priest.
When he had finished eating it he thanked the assembly for their
sympathy and kindness, and said if they would all now step across
the other side of the market-place he would make a return gift.
The entire gathering, including the surly peasant, followed the
priest, who took the pips from the core, made a little hole in the
ground, buried them, and with incantations poured water on the
place. Immediately a pear-tree grew, blossomed, and then bore
an abundance of luscious fruit, to which the priest invited all present
to help themselves. When the tree was at last bare, he took his
knife, slashed off a branch and walked away with it in his hand.
The people naturally enough stood about discussing the miracle, so
some time elapsed before the fruit vendor (who felt that now his
business was quite spoiled) returned to his cart. He could scarcely
believe his eyes—he rubbed them hard and looked again—but it was
true enough: there was the cart, empty, with one of the handles
broken off! He ran off quickly after the priest, but all he found
was the broken handle of his cart on the ground.
§ 9. D. D. Home, the famous spirit-medium of the Victorian era,
must have learned his tricks from a Taoist priest, for as far back
as 1000 b .c ., " The Wizard of the West," a Taoist, performed before
the Emperor Muh. He gave demonstrations of his ability to float
through the air ; to walk through fire, and on water : to pass through
solids, and also to assume immediately the form of any animal that
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
the audience cared to name. He spoke of a dazzling heaven higher
up than the sun and moon, and no sooner did the emperor express
a desire to visit this paradise than the wizard conveyed him there.
Together they remained aloft for three years, but we are not informed
whether the monarch spent the time engaged solely in pleasurable
pursuits, or in the study of statecraft; however, upon his return to
earth, conditions in his domain had not changed, for the long holiday
had occupied but a few seconds of terrestrial time, and he was still
sitting at the banquet surrounded by his courtiers, none of whom
had seen him move or look in any way disturbed. Asked for an
explanation, the wizard replied that the mind could be freed, and
rendered independent, of both time and space, which were only
illusions.
§ io. It is a common act of piety in China for persons to have
printed, and then distribute gratis, a little book called T a i Shang
K an Ying P'ien, which means, “ The Exalted One's Response and
Retribution Tract." The Exalted One is Lao Tzu, an early Taoist
leader, but the booklet is actually of much later date, containing
Confucian and Buddhist moral principles, mixed with Taoist maxims.
There is sufficient wisdom in it to guide a family in virtue to pros­
perity. A poor scholar once pawned his clothing to print and
distribute this little book, and soon after, one of his owncompositions,
a piece of verse, took the emperor's eye. The scholar was sent for
and created a petty official, for which stroke of luck he thanked the
gods, only to learn from them that it was a reward for his piety.
Taoist occultism, at its best period, was not devoid of utilitarian
results, and we learn from documents over two thousand years old,
that Taoist priests in their practice of magic made lenses to use as
burning-glasses ; and two thousand five hundred years ago, Pien
Ch'iao, the Taoist physician, studied the pulse-rate of his patients,
and performed an operation on a person under an anaesthetic.
5 ii. Such achievements, at so early a date, amply counter-balance
the belief in dragons which still occupies a prominent place in Chinese
occult thought; but, unlike European dragons, those in China do
not subsist upon a diet of flaxen-haired maidens. It is a dragon
that brings the rain to the fields ; this is the Shen Lung. Another,
called the T'an, is always painted on the wall of court-houses, to
warn magistrates not to take bribes. T'ien Lung, the celestial
dragon, guards the abode of the gods; Ssu Lung Wang guards the
seas ; and many other of these monsters appear each with an allotted
task. As it is generally considered lucky, the dragon motif creeps
into all Chinese landscape-gardening: curved walk are made like
dragons; zigzag bridges are supposed to be dragons; bushes are
clipped dragon-shape; and in the town, the posts that support
shopkeepers' signs are carved dragon-fashion. In the T a i Shang
K a n Ytng P ‘ien, there is an account of a bad man who oppressed
the poor: ultimately a scarlet dragon came along and destroyed
him. It is also on record that when Wu Tao Tzu, the celebrated
artist (8th cent. A.D.), painted a dragon on an unsightly blank wall,
he had no sooner put the finishing touches to it, than it spread its
72
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
wings and flew away, leaving the wall blank—as before* An emperor
once wished to consult a dragon, and when one kindly appeared it
was hardly as long as a man's arm. The emperor was naturally
disappointed, saying that he had expected something rather larger;
whereupon the offended creature grew and grew, then flew up into
the sky and swallowed the sun I The result was that the emperor
and his courtiers were put to a great deal of apologizing and obeisance
to get the luminary returned to the sky, but at last they succeeded;
hence when there is an eclipse it is necessary, if the sun is to return,
for the population to apologize and make obeisance to the dragon.
§ 12. Next to dragons, the carp is respected most among creatures.
They are usually kept in temple ponds, where they live hundreds of
years and grow to huge dimensions. It is considered an act of piety
to feed these fish, and with a view to assisting visitors to this end,
and also to increase the income of the religious institution, a stall
is provided where the necessary sustenance may be purchased.
There are stories of virtuous people being carried up to heaven on
a giant carp's back.
§ 13. The tortoise is a descendant of the first dragon, andis there­
fore regarded as a holy creature. About 2850 b.c. there was a
rebellion under Kung Rung, and the havoc wrought completely
upset the world. Nu Kua, a demi-goddess, partly a serpent, was
detailed to put things right, and she set the world up again on the
four feet of a tortoise.
§ 14. The hare, too, figures as a magical creature in the Chinese
mind. Legend has it that when Buddha was hungry, a hare volun­
tarily leapt into a pot and so cooked itself for the Master, who
rewarded such extreme self-sacrifice by conferring on the entire race
the gift of longevity, allotting to each a thousand years of life on
earth, and an eternity on the moon, where they occupy themselves
gathering and preparing the herbs from which the elixir of life is
brewed.
§ 15. The oldest method of divination practised in China is by
means of tortoise-shell, which is heated over a slow fire and the
future read from the cracks that appear ; but a much more favoured
method of prophecy is afforded by the I Ching, " The Sacred Book
of Permutations," generally shortened to the " Book of Changes."
It is very old, and profoundly venerated, and quite unintelligible.
No native or foreign scholar has been able to give a rational explana­
tion of its contents, hence it becomes the fortune-teller's pinnacle
of authority. It contains the “ Eight Diagrams," each of which
consists of three parallel lines, some of them continuous, and others
broken by a little gap. The unbroken lines are Yang, the broken
ones Yin. The first diagram means heaven; the second
vapour; the third — fire ; the fourth = = thunder;
the fifth ffn
r
n
-'—.. wind; the sixth gg-gg water ; the seventh = =
mountains ; and the eighth = = earth. Besides this they mean
divers directions, the sun, moon, stars and planets, and in short
there is very little that they do not mean. All the secrets of the
universe (which, after all, is composed of Yang and Yin) are contained
s.o. 73 f
Chinese Occultism Chinese Occultism
in these lines, which can be recombined in about sixteen million
different ways. The soothsayer's outfit consists of, besides a copy
of the I Ching, fifty stalks of a magic plant. In operation one stalk
is set up on end to represent the Great Ultimate, the One and Original
Principle; the remaining forty-nine are held above the head and
divided at random into two handfuls. The right-hand bundle is
placed on the table and one stick from it wedged between the fingers
of the left hand. The three groups now represent heaven, earth
and man. The left-hand group is counted out in sets of eight until
a remainder of less than eight indicates the number of the I Ching
diagram to be consulted. The same performance is also gone through
with the right-hand bundle, and the two diagrams thus indicated
are combined to give the prophecies. In principle it is not very
different from cartomancy.
5 16. Chinese geomancy is called Feng Shui (literally, " wind and
water "). The system is employed to find out if a given site is
propitious for the erection of a building. The most important
edifice in any Chinese town is the pagoda, which stands as a sentinel,
night and day, on guard against Kuei, and drought, and even earth­
quakes ; therefore it would be rash to build such an important
structure without first consulting the geomancer. If the tower
stood on the wrong side of the town it might attract the very terrors
it is intended to disperse. Feng Shui is also applied before deciding
on the construction of a private house, or even a tomb. The general
rules of the system are fairly well known ; for instance, a mountain
with three peaks indicates a learned man with eminent sons and
grandsons, therefore aspiring scholars choose such a place for their
dwelling. An old saying, "The stars in heaven above and the
contours of the earth beneath correspond to one another," necessitates
each geomancer being also an astrologer, and the entire magical
mixture is under the control of the unintelligible I Ching.
§ 17. Divination by means of the planchette is also practised,
generally by Taoist priests. The Chinese instrument consists of a
V-shaped twig, something like a European divining-rod, with the
difference that another twig is fixed in the point of the V at right
angles to it, so that when the bifurcated stick is taken horizontally
in two hands, the " pencil" is vertical. It is held over a tray of
sand, and as the characters are traced they are copied down on a
sheet of paper. The Chinese spirits are less prosaic if no more
reliable than those consulted in Europe, for though the message is
often foolish, it is always in verse. A domestic planchette is arranged
by inverting a sieve over a plate containing flour, and pushing a
chopstick through the mesh. The professional spirit-medium in
China is called a Wu, and all stories of their exploits are parallel
with the doings of European mediums. Ectoplasmic materializations
were known in China hundreds of years b.c., and there, as in Europe,
the spirits never give any revelation that is absolutely new know­
ledge : the occasional words of wisdom that the Wu gives tongue to
in a trance-state may be found written in Taoist, Confucian, or
Buddhist books. The Wu is very often female, and it is on record
74
Circe Cockatrice
that in the 9th century a.d. a lady made herself famous as a Wu,
and on being questioned concerning her powers, by a high official,
she confessed that there are two kinds of spirits, healthy and
unhealthy; the former can speak direct with men if they wish,
but the iatter require the services of a medium.
§ 18. When an Occidental spirit-medium once published a book
written " automatically ” and alleged it to have been dictated by
the spirit of a dead author, the surviving relations of the ghost
brought an action under copyright law: either the work was from
the dead writer, or it was not. If the former was true, the rights
and consequent income must go to the executors ; if the latter, then
the book was a forgery, and they demanded either its withdrawal
from circulation or the medium's own name on the title-page.
“ Automatic '' writing also occurs in China, and the story is told of
a young man who communed with an unknown spirit who influenced
his literary work. As time went on he became famous, and critics
declared his style to be comparable to that of the long-departed
Ch'ien Hsi, a great scholar of the Ming Period. The young man
asked the spirit, through the planchette, if he was indeed Ch'ien Hsi,
and, receiving an affirmative answer, ever after addressed him as
“ Master ” ; but it is not on record that he openly declared his work
to be that of the Ming scholar.
§ 19. In China, a righteous man may be his own medium, and
the professionals are not regarded with favour. They are patronized
chiefly by women, and frequently get into trouble for fraud, black­
mail, and even for causing riots. Their utterances are, as elsewhere,
generally trivial and vulgar ; in fact, a pious Confucian would not
care to allow a Wu across his threshold, because, according to
him, the spirits invoked would undoubtedly be Kuei. The mediums
themselves endorse this condemnation, for when Chinese ladies
engage a Wu to entertain them at a tea-party, it is always stipulated
that sacred writings (which are, of course, Yang, and very Kuei-
scaring) shall be removed from the house.
See also History of Occult Ideas, §§ 54-6.
J- F.
Book recommended :
Mead, G . W ., Chinese Ghouls and Goblins (C o n stab le, 1928).
Circe. See Occultism in Ancient
Greece and Rome, § 3 ; and
Mandrake, § 7.
Circumcision. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 36.
Clairaudience. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 49.
Clairvoyance. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 49 ; Spiritual-
75
ism , Part II, § 29 ; and White
M agic, § 3.
Cleromancy. Divination bydice.
Cockatrice. A cock that lays
eggs. In mythology it is pro­
vided with a dragon's tail, but
the cockatrice has an objective
existence insomuch that hens
attacked by a wasting disease
of the ovanes become governed
Cock Lane Ghost
by the masculine hormone, de­
velop a comb, etc., and begin
to crow lustily. They go so
far as to " tread ” hens, but
they donot lay eggs. However,
such an occurrence on any farm
scares the rustics for miles
round, and the stories become
more weird than the actual
occurrence.
Cock Lane Ghost. Poltergeist
outbreaks in 1762, which
attracted a great deal of atten­
tion on account of an alleged
attempt of blackmail by Par­
sons, the occupant of the house.
Cogrino. See Chagrin.
Colchis, Witchcraft in. See
Occultism in Ancient Greece and
Rome, § 4.
Cole-Prophet (also Col- and
Coll-). From Cole, a conjur­
ing trick before 1579. One who
pretends to predict the future
by means of magic. A fortune­
teller.
Coleridge, Samuel T aylor. See
English Literature and the Occult,
'! 8. 9.
C oleridge, Sara. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 9.
C oley, Henry. See Astrology,
§ 17 ; and Literature of Occult­
ism, § 25.
C ollins, Wilkie. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 18.
Comets. See Astrology, § 2.
Confucius. See Chinese Occult­
ism ; and History o f Occult
Ideas, § 38.
Crandon
Consecrated Host, theft of the.
See Devil-worship, § 3.
Constant, Alphonse L ouis (Eli-
phas Levi [pseud.].) See A l­
chemy, §§ 19, 36 ; and Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 14.
Consumption and Vampirism.
See Vampire, the, § 7.
Contagious Magic. See Black
Magic, the, § 3-4.
‘ Control.” See Spiritualism,
Part III, § 4.
Cook, Florence. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 18 ; and Spiritualism, Part I,
§ 38.
Cooke, Ivan. See Doyle, Sir A .
Conan.
I
ijuureK, Mrs. Blanche. See
Spiritualism, Part II, § 47.
Copernicus. See Astrology, § 14.
Corn Mother, the. See History
of Occult Ideas, § 17.
Corpse-candle. Lambent flame
sometimes seen in churchyards
and regarded as an omen of
death.
Coscinomancy. Divination by a
balanced sieve.
Couvade. See White Magic, § 13.
Cow, the divine. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 12-14.
Cowrie Shell. See History o f
Occult Ideas, §§ 5-6.
Crandon, Mrs. See Spiritual­
ism, Part III, §§ 41-2.
76
Crawford
Crawford, Dr. See Spiritual-
*, Part II, §§ 19, 23-7.
C reation, Indian version of.
See Indian Occultism, § 3.
Crete [early], occult ideas in.
See History o f Occult Ideas,
§§57- 65’
Crewe Circle. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 37-
Crithomancy. Divination bythe
dough of cakes.
Crock o’ G old. See Fairies, § 3.
Cromwell, Oliver. See Ghosts,
§ 8 ; and Witchcraft, § 17.
Crook, John. See Ghosts, § 1.
Crookes, Sir William. See A l- \
chemy, § 48 ; and Literature of
Occultism, § 35.
C ross - correspondence. See
Spiritualism, Part III, §§ 39-40.
Cryptomnesia. See Psycho-ther­
apy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 19 -
C r y s t a l - g a z i n g . See W h i t e
M agic, § 3.
De la Mare
Dalton. See Alchemy, § 13.
Dame du Lac. See Fairies, § 6.
Dante. See Alchemy, § 24 ; and
English Literature and the Occult,
§ 5-
Darley. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 9.
Davenport Bros. Two American
“ mediums ” who from i860 to
1870 made agreat deal of money
by performing conjurers' tricks
withmusicalinstruments. They
were exposed by a Lancashire
weaver who knew how to tie a
“ Tom Fool ” knot. This they
were unable to loosen, hence
they remained bound in the
Cabinet," and the " Spirits ”
gave no musical performance.
Davis, Andrew Jackson. See
Psycho-therapy and Psychic Phe­
nomena, § 9 ; and Spiritualism,
Part I, § 2.
Dawson, Christopher. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 34, 59.
Day of Brahma. See K alpa.
“ De Conservations Vit a .” See
Alchemy, § 29.
Dee, Dr. John. See Alchemy,
§ 37 ; Astrology, § 16 ; Black
Dactyuomancy. Divination by M agic, § 13 ; Literature of Oc-
a suspended ring. cultism, § 19.
Dactylomancy. Divination by Deeves. See Fairies, §4.
finger rings.
I“ D e I n v e s t i g a t i o n s M e t a l -
Damonology. See Literature of See Alchemy, § 23.
Occultism, § 17.
|De La Mare, Walter. See Eng-
Dakarkaswa. See Indian Occult- lish Literature and the Occult,
, § § 9-
77
De Maupassant Devil-worship
De Maupassant. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 18.
“ De Mineralibus.” Sea Alchemy,
§ 50, near end.
Demonology. See Black Magic,
Devil-worship, Incubus, Succu-
bus, Vampire, Werewolf, Witch­
craft, etc.
Dengyo. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 13-
De Quincey. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 17.
Dervish. See Moslem Occultism,
§ 10.
“ De Secretis Medicina Magna.”
See Alchemy, § 29.
Desmond, Countess of. See A l­
chemy, § 75.
Devil, human representative of.
See Devil-worship, § 6 ; and
Witchcraft, § 14.
Devil’s Bridge. See Black Magic,
§ i7 -
Devil’s Candle, the. See M an­
drake, § 9.
Devil’s Elm, the. See Ghosts,
§ 9.
Devil’s Favourite Plant. See
Mandrake, § 2.
Devil’s Mark. See Witchcraft,
§8.
DEVIL-WORSHIP
§ 1« Apart from the worship of
demons practised by semi-civilized
peoples, there are two forms of
Devil-worship. Primary Satan­
ism, founded on Christianity/ac­
knowledges that the Devil is a
fallen angel, but, because " Nature
is one with rapine ” and man,
having been created with animal
lusts, is cruelly treated by a God
demanding their suppression, they
abandon Him, and in despair pay
allegiance to His Enemy. It does
not appear why persons holding
the opinion that the God of the
Christians has betrayed His fol­
lowers, should find it necessary to
swell the Enemy’s ranks. They
might with a great deal more com­
fort remain neutral: and as,
naturally enough, they produce
no literature on the subject, it is
impossible to know whether an
organized Church of Satan actu­
ally does, or ever did exist in
Europe.
§ 2. The secondary type of
European Devil-worship is known
as the Cultus of Lucifer. Adher­
ents to this creed regard Lucifer,
the Light-Bearer, Son of theMorn­
ing, as the true personification of
Goodness, whilst Adonai, Jeho­
vah, is the representative of Evil,
reigning by artifice. These per­
sonages form the two First Prin­
ciples and are equal in status.
Adonai in his ascendancy is lead­
ing men through misery to des­
truction : the worshippers of Luci­
fer are public benefactors inso­
much as their mission is to raise
the Standard of the Son of the
Morning and enable Him to secure
triumph over Adonai. This ac­
complished, He will send to earth
the true Saviour, Antichrist.
There is no dearth of literature
on and around this secondary,
diabolic cult, but very little is
authentic, the bulk being either
imaginative or wilfully mislead-
78
Devil-worship Devil-worship
ing. T he Rom an Catholic Church,
as the official earthly repre­
sentative, as it, were of Adonai,
not only believes that the Church
of Lucifer is well established on
earth, and has m any adherents,
but th at it is highly if secretly
organized, and includes the Free­
masons.
§ 3. I t is a fact that conse­
crated H osts are occasionally
abstracted from Rom an Catholic
Cathedrals, which goes far to sug­
gest that diabolism is practised,
for the desecration of the H ost is
part of its r itu a l; also, the cir­
cumstances of the thefts prove
that in each case the wafers, and
not the vessels containing them,
had been the object of the mis­
creants.
§ 4. The charge of D evil-w or­
ship brought against the brother­
hood of Freemasons is, needless
to say, stoutly denied b y them.
The denial is in turn combated
b y the accusers who declare that
the ordinary Freemason is not
expected to know anything con­
cerning the secret activities of the
high officials. This secret inner
cult of Masons is alleged to admit
women members, and to have
been founded b y one Albert P yke
at Charleston, U .S .A . P yke, Isaac
Long, the Jew who has been
accused of carrying an idol called
“ the original image of Bapho-
m et ” (the " god ” of the Knights
Templars) to the town, and the
anti-Catholic Italian patriot, M az-
zini, are all bracketed together as
the leaders of devil-worshipping
Masonry. Long founded the
Lodge and became chief in “ The
33rd and last degree of the A n ­
cient and Accepted Scotch R ite ” ;
P yk e entered into a pact w ith the
D evil and Mazzini, and between
them the Scotch R ite became an
occult, inner fraternity with world­
wide powers. Lucifer apparently
took up his earthly abode in the
Masonic headquarters at Charles­
ton. Miss Diana Vaughan, who
was a member of this band of
brothers, becoming converted, or
reconverted, to Catholicism, wrote
a book [Memoirs of an ex-Palladist,
1895) exposing the entire diaboli­
cal conspiracy, and there are few
literary works in which more in­
sanity was made manifest. It is
as undignified for the Freemasons
to brand her as an instrument of
the Rom an Catholic Church, as
it is for the latter institution to
regard her as a reclaimed soul
and enem y of Satan. In fact,
there is some reason to believe
that the book was a forgery and
“ Miss Vaughan ” but a pseudo­
nym .
§ 5. The ritual of Devil-worship
consists of the complete inversion
of the Roman Catholic rites. The
B lack Mass of St. Secoine, as the
diabolic ceremony is called, is
carried out at midnight in a ruined
church with a renegade priest
officiating. His assistants must
be public prostitutes, and the
H oly Eucharist befouled with
human excrement. He wears a
black surplice cut in three points,
and bum s black candles. The
“ holy water ” must have been
used to drown an unbaptized,
newly-born bastard, and the altar
decorated with owls, bats, toads,
and creatures of like ill-omen.
Standing with the left foot for­
ward, the officiating priest reads
the Rom an Catholic Mass back­
wards, after which the congrega­
tion indulges in all kinds of orgies
and excesses. A crucifix is usu­
ally trampled and spat upon, and
sexual perversions performed be­
fore the altar.
79
Devil-worship Devil-worship
§ 6. It stands to reason that b y name. Thus, among a list of
these " ideal ” conditions can suspected persons . . . w e have
rarely, if ever, be fulfilled, there- * Ould Birtles, the great devil,
fore it is possible for the D evil- Roger Birtles and Ins wife and
worshippers to em ploy substi- Anne Birtles/ ”
tutes. The “ holy water,” for § 7. It is interesting to note that
instance, m ay consist of urine, Montague Summers, a R om an
or ordinary water in which a doll Catholic, uses the expression
has been immersed ; the owls, “ Grand Master ” to describe the
bats, toads, and the like m ay be president of the D evil Cult covens,
of d a y , provided it has been Grand Master is a masonic title
blended with excrement, or ren- (albeit inherited or purloined from
dered foul in some other w ay. the K nights Templars), a fact
A s it is most obvious that no which influences one to accept
w holly sane person would adhere Summers's implication ; but
to such a cultus, and as the major- surely, if the Grand Masters of
ity of complete and semi-lunatics that international Friendly So-
are suffering from sexual disturb- ciety were actually plotting to
ances, it is not impertinent to elevate the Standard of Lucifer,
assume that the orgies succeeding the respectable grocers and com-
the ceremony are the attraction, mercial travellers in the ranks
and the D evil, as an object of would get some inkling of the
worship, not taken seriously, activity, and register their dis-
This is a two-edged sword, for approval in a m ultitude of secret
Mr. Montague Summers contends signs. The Rom an Catholic
that all sexual perverts are D evil- Church regards all heresy and
worshippers ; also, not without anarchy as demonological, whilst
some logical justification it must of course the vast m ajority of
be adm itted, this authority would sects and societies have no extra-
include in the ranks of Satan, mundane interest of an y kind,
night-club habitués, nudists, theo- either demonological or theologi-
sophists, spiritualists, and numer- cal ; however, there is ample evi-
ous others. A t the same time he dence to indicate that four or
admits that the D evil who appears five hundred years ago, persons
at the celebrations is but a human belonging to secret societies were
substitute representing His Sa- not above suspicion, and the B lack
tanic M ajesty— the vicar of the Mass of St. Secoine was celebrated
local “ black parish,” as it were, m uch more frequently than most
Summers says (History of Witch- people would nowadays suppose.
craft and Demonology, p. 7) : A s time progressed, people began
“ There is ample proof that ' the to stay aw ay from church w ith-
D evil * . . . was very frequently out fear of eternal damnation in
a hum an being, the Grand Master hell's fires, and Devil-worship also
of the district, and since his officers lost adherents. The Cultus of
and immediate attendants were Lucifer became more of a per-
also term ed * D evils ' - . . some version and less of a religion ;
confusion has on occasion ensued, later still, it degenerated into a
In a few cases where sufficient farce, a piece of dare-devil non-
details are given it is possible sense for young men about town j
actually to identify ' the D evil ' hence, we hear the following
80
Devil-worship Devil-worship
dote concerning the notorious were not quite dear upon the ab-
John W ilkes, the politician, con- solute division. Dr. Ernest Jones
tem porary w ith Dr. Johnson, and says (On Nightmare, p. 178):
as immoral as the w orthy doctor " . . . Identification with God is
was pious. at times very close indeed, and
§ 8. A s a member of the " Se- it is interesting to note that it
cret S o d e ty ” known as the Med- was deliberately striven for b y the
menham Monks, he attended the D evil, who copied God to a truly
B lack Mass held at St. M ary's remarkable extent. A s until the
A bbey, Medmenham, and during past half-century the worship of
Lord Oxford's supplication to Christ has been on the whole more
Lucifer, calling upon the arch- prominent than that of God the
fiend to appear am ong them, Father, it is not astonishing that
W ilkes pulling a string allowed the D evil's resemblance to the
a m onkey to escape from a Son has been greater than that
cage which he had previously to the Father. His physical ap-
planted beneath the a lta r ; where- pearance was first depicted as
upon his lordship received so great beautiful and majestic, often
a shock, believing the m onkey to closely resembling Christ's ; in-
be the E v il One incarnate, that deed, he sometimes actually ap-
he was taken seriously ill and his peared in the exact form of Christ,
sanity despaired of, whilst several It was only in the Middle Ages
of the other " monks " were that he became invested with ugly
thrown into a panic— in fact, the and grotesque traits. Like Jesus,
only tw o really amused at the the D evil had twelve disciples, de­
jest were W ilkes and his m o n k ey! scended into hell and was born
The somewhat tragic termination again, had his home in special
to this piece of buffoonery on Churches, was worshipped at regu-
W ilkes's part proves conclusively larly recurring festivals, and had
that the persons attending the his followers baptized, while the
" mass " did not take their D evil- details of the D evil's Sabbath cari-
worship at all seriously, and ex- catured the H oly Mass so closely
pected the W atch to appear rather that the resemblance greatly an-
than Satan. Nevertheless, it does gered the theologians. . . . The
not exclude the probability of D evil even had a special Bible of
there existing, contemporaneously, his ow n ; it was written in Bo-
sincere Devil-worshipping socie- hernia and is now in the R oyal
ties. Library in Stockholm. Further,
§ 9. If the D evil receives wor- he copied the Trinitarian concep-
ship, the theologians are surely a tion itself. It is little wonder
little to blame, for according to that this habit of caricaturing
their own findings the D evil is earned him the title of ‘ God's
not alw ays the enem y but some- A p e .'"
times is the agent of God— in so § 10. Orthodox religion, b y offi-
far as he discovers the weaklings d a ily believing in the existence
b y tem pting them to sin, and then of a D evil, sets him upon a pedes-
J
unishes them for falling. A s the t a l ; and if the Church declares
ews combined the prindples of that he is there, certain m entally
both good and evil in one divine unsound persons will make of him
personality, so the early Christians an object of worship, and an ex-
81
Dharana Doyle
cuse for perverted sexual trends ;
therefore, the consecrated wafers
will continue to be stolen, and the
B lack Mass celebrated, until the
D evil is officially declared extinct.
j. ~
Book recommended:
Thompson, R. L., History of the I
Devil (Kegan Paul, 1929). I
Dharana. See Eight Stages of
Yoga.
Dharma. See Buddhist Occult-1
ism, § 4.
Dhyana. See Eight Stages of
Yoga.
Diana. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 15.
D ianic Cult of Witches. See
Witchcraft, § 4.
Dingwall, E. J. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 3.
Dioscorides, Pedanios. See M an­
drake, § 1.
Direct Voice. See Spiritualism,
Part II, §§ 42-7.
** Discoverie of Witchcraft . . .”
See Literature of Occultism, § 17.
Divination, origin of. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 42-3, 56,
69.
“ Divine Pymander, the.” See
Alchemy, § 22.
Divining Rods. See White Magic,
§6.
Door Gods. W hen the Chinese
Em peror T 'a i Tsung was dis-
82
turbed at night b y ghosts bang­
ing on his door, tw o brave
warriors, Ch'in and Y u , volun­
teered to keep guard. This
they did, and the ghosts re­
mained at a distance. “ B u t,"
said the kindly emperor, " you
have had no slee p ! ” So he
ordered their portraits to be
painted and hung up outside
the door. This device was a
great success, and Ch'in and
Y u became tutelary deities of
the door for all time.
Double Axe. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 57-65.
Doubleganger. Apparition of a
living
Dousterswivel. T o use divining
rods.
Dowie, Alexander. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 9.
Doyle, Sir A. C onan (1859-1931),
began life as a doctor and during
the period 1885-8, under the in­
fluence of one of his patients, a
certain General Grayson, he be­
came interested in spiritualism.
Some of his literary works on
the subject are : Pamphlets—
In Quest of Truth (W atts, 19 14 );
Our Reply to the Cleric (Spirit­
ualists1 Union, 1920) ; A Debate
with D r. Joseph McCabe (W atts,
1920) ; Spiritualism and Ration­
alism (Hodder & Stoughton,
1920); Psychic Experience (Put­
nam, 1925); The Early Chris­
tian Church and Modern Spirit­
ualism. What does Spiritualism
Actually Teach and Stand fo r?,
and A Word of Warning (all
three, Psychic Press— no date).
Dracu
Books— The New Revelation, or
What is Spiritualism (Hodder &
Stoughton, 1918); The Vital
Message (Hodder & Stoughton,
1919); The Wanderings of a
Spiritualist (Hodder & Stough­
ton, 19 21); The Case for Spirit
Photography (H u tch in so n 's,
1922); The Coming of the
Fairies (Hodder & Stoughton,
1922) ; Our American Adven­
ture (Hodder & Stoughton,
19 2 3) ; Our Second American
Adventure (Hodder & Stough­
ton, 1924); The Spiritualist's
Reader (Two Worlds Publishing
Co., 1924).
After Doyle's death a book
was published, the title page of
which reads: “ ' Thy Kingdom
Come . . .' A Presentation of
the Whence, W hy and Where­
fore of Man. A Record of mes­
sages received from one of the
W hite Brotherhood, believed to
have been Known on Earth as
Arthur Conan Doyle, arranged
and edited b y Ivan Cooke ”
(Wright & Brown— no date).
A bibliography of Doyle's
writings from 1879 to 1928,
compiled by Harold Locke, was
published b y D. Webster in
1928.
Doyle received his K night­
hood in 1922.
See also English Literature
and the Occult, § 19.
Dracu. A Hungarian devil.
Dracula. See Vampire, the,
§ 16 .
Dragons. See Chinese Occultism,
§ « •
Drakenburg. See Alchemy, § 75.
Dramatic Ghosts. See English
Ectoplasm
Literature and the Occult, §§ i o -
15, passim.
Dream States. See Illusion and
Hallucination, § 6.
Dreams. See Astrology, §§ 10 -
1 2 ; and Psycho-therapy and
Psychic Phenomena, § 12.
Drudb. Nightmare fiend. A
young witch was said to be­
come a drude when she attained
the age of 40.
Drummer of T edworth. A pol­
tergeist outbreak about 1661,
described b y Joseph G lanvi^
in Sadducismus Triumphatus&
1668. >
©
Dryads. See Fairies, § 17. >
Dudaim. See Mandrake, § 5.
c
Duergar. See Fairies, § 7.
Duncan, Mrs. See Spiritualism, 5
Part II, § 19.
"0
Dunsany, Lord. See English %
Literature and the Occult, § 15.
Dyaus. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
E a . See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 34»35»
Earthenware Lions. See His­
tory of Occult Ideas, § 54.
Easter Island. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 95, 98.
Ectoplasm. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 19-27.
Eddington
Eddington, Sir A . S. See H is­
tory o f Occult Ideas, § 67.
Eddy, Mary Baker. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 9.
Edmonds, Judge, and Laura. See
Spiritualism , Part I, § 19.
Egham, haunted house at. See
Ghosts, § 4.
Egypt— the Egyptians. See A l­
chemy, §§ 2, 22, 63 ; History of
Occult Ideas, § 11-30 , 58, 63 ;
and Occultism in Ancient Greece
and Rome, § 4.
Eight Diagrams. See Chinese
Occultism, § 15.
Eight Stages of Y oga, i ,
Yama, R estra in t; 2, Niyama,
Religious observance, fasting,
prayer, e tc .; 3, Asana, Contor-
tion ism ; 4, Pranayama, Breath-
control ; 5, Pratyahara, W ith­
drawal of consciousness; 6,
Dharana, Concentration; 7,
Dhyana, M editation; 8, Sam -
adhi, U nion w ith D ivin ity.
Eighth Sphere. See Planet of
Death.
English Literature
“ Eirbnaus Philalethes.” See
Alchemy, § 45.
“ Electrizers,” Society of. See
Spiritualism, Part I, § 23.
Elements. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 66-8.
Eleusinian M ysteries. See Oc­
cultism in Ancient Greece
Rome, § 6.
Elf K ing’s T une. See Fairies,
§8.
Elixir of L ife. See Alchemy,
§§ 36, 5 7 -6 o ; in relation to
rejuvenation, §§ 61-82 ; and
English Literature and the Occult,
§ 20.
Elles. See Fairies, § 8.
Elm, the Devil’s. See Ghosts,
§ 9.
Elves. See Fairies, § 8.
Emmens, D r . S. H . See Alchemy,
§§ 6, 48.
Empusa. See Vampire, the, § 5.
Endor, Witch of. See Witch­
craft, § 2.
E N G L I S H L I T E R A T U R E A N D T H E O C C U L T
§ 1. The story of the occult in English literature is, in point of
time, co-extensive w ith the story of English literature itself. Magic,
witchcraft, ghosts, fairies and such-like supernatural manifestations—
for the term " occult ” is here held to embrace all these— have
undoubtedly been more extensively exploited at some periods than
a t others; yet at no time have writers been w holly dead to their
direct im aginative appeal or to their power of stim ulating those
spiritual qualities in man which persuade him th at his destiny is
of vital concern to a world beyond the present. This continuity
is due in jjart to the fact that the literary effect of the supernatural
is largely independent of belief in it. Provided that an author has
English Literature English Literature
sufficient artistry to induce the “ willing suspension of disbelief”
aim ed at b y Coleridge, the sceptical reader will react as satisfactorily
as the credulous to the old-established phenomena. The super­
natural, indeed, has no call for modernization. Unconsciously we
judge a m odem treatm ent of the supernatural b y the degree to
which it recaptures the atmosphere of our favourites of the past.
T he supernatural science of some present-day literature we m ay
tolerate for its apparent novelty, but juggling with over-advanced
chem istry or the fourth dimension is apt to be deficient in charm.
§ 2. The space available forbids more than a conspectus of the
field. O nly a fraction of the m any titles which m ight be fully
discussed can be even mentioned. O f the several methods of
grouping that presented themselves, a triple division according to
the literary medium em ployed has been adopted. A survey on
these lines suggests, as a rough generalization, that the supernatural
found itself most at home in poetry during the later m edieval period
and the Rom antic R evival, in drama during Shakespeare's age, and
in prose during the last hundred years. It should, however, be
observed that the exponents of the notable revival of supematuralism
at present manifest avail themselves of all three media.
Poetry
§ 3. The beginning of the story of the occult in English literature
takes us back some 1,200 years to the early productions of Old English
poetry. Particularly interesting are those supernatural manifesta­
tions which rest upon the original pagan beliefs and folk-lore of the
Anglo-Saxon peoples. Christianity m ay provide a superficial veneer
to the poems in which th ey occur, but their appeal is to the literary
and spiritual associations of a deep-seated paganism. Thus in the
Charms are preserved spells, incantations and exorcisms that reach
back to remote Indo-Germanic superstition. The main plot of the
epic Beowulf (c. a.d. 750) consists of three fabulous exploits drawn
from the ample store of Scandinavian folk-lore. Beowulf, ostensibly
trusting in the Christian God, rids the world of three monsters
unknown to Christian demonology— Grendel and his mother, two
murderous alien spirits who leave their mysterious dwelling beneath
a mere to work havoc in the court of the Danish king Hrothgar,
and a fire-breathing dragon, defender of an ancient treasure-hoard,
These monsters are objective realities, creatures of flesh and blood,
of vast age, y e t mortal. T hat th ey are not cast in the modern
supernatural mould is no argument against their imaginative effective­
ness in the age which gave them to literature. In a different vein
is the Later Genesis (10th cent. a.d.), a religious poem on the
them e of the F all of the Angels. Nowhere else in Old English poetry
is Satan endowed w ith such heroic proportions, and the briefest
adequate comment on the supematuralism of this poem is that it is
thoroughly Miltonic both in conception and in execution.
§ 4 . The irresistible fascination of the supernatural is, however,
first exercised to the full in the romances of the Middle English
period, more particularly in the Arthurian romances. Although
85
English Literature English Literature
some of its manifestations may appear to be almost childishly naive
in essence, their employment is highly artificial; one cannot attribute
their striking poetic and imaginative effect to a happy accident.
Indeed, to a world of
inchantments drear,
Where more is meant than meets the ear,
magic beakers, enchanted girdles, shape-shifting, optical illusions,
prophecies, portents and their like appear the inevitable accessories.
Wholly delightful is their use in the English adaptations of Breton
lais, which display, with a brevity and freshness suggestive of the
ballad rather than of leisurely romance, the wonder-working Celtic
imagination at its most delicate. The best known of these is
Chaucer's Franklin's Tale, a Breton lai of " gentillesse.” Chaucer
is again concerned with magic—a " virtuous Ring and Glass '' and a
" wondrous Hors of Brass ''—in his exquisite Squire's Tale, and in
The W ife of Bath's Tale he retells the story of The Wedding of Sir
Gawain, wherein the hideous Dame RagneU proves, on disenchant­
ment, to be a lovely lady who had suffered transformation through
the malice of a step-mother. This shape-shifting motive is nowhere
more consistently employed than in the cycle of romances woven
around Sir Gawain, the finest of which is Sir Gawain and the Green
Knight. Another, The Awntyrs (Adventures) of Arthur at the Tarn
Wathelyn, presents the objective ghost of Guinevere's mother to the
startled eyes of Gawain and the Queen. Malory's prose redaction
of Arthurian story, Le Morte d'Arthur, may perhaps be cited as most
conveniently representing the variety of supernatural devices at the
service of the medieval romancer. Giants and wizards abound;
Galahad's birth is attributed to enchantment; Arthur is magically
assisted by the soothsayer Merlin and by Nimue, the damsel of the
lake; a mysterious hand appears above the lake to receive the
sword Excalibur; and three shadowy queens receive the dying
Arthur into their keeping, to conduct him to the Vale of Avalon,
from whence his return was long expected. With none of such things
would we dispense, but they lack the psychological subtlety of the
wholly subjective ghost of Gawain, which appears to Arthur to warn
him not to fight that day, nor have they the spiritually stimulating
quality of the manifestation of the Holy Grail. The sustained beauty
of the story of the Quest for this symbol of the living Christ reveais
at its best the quality of romantic supematuralism wedded to the
service of medieval mysticism. Moreover Malory achieves the in­
tangible supernaturalism of Greek and Elizabethan tragedy in
his suggestion of the destiny which shapes Arthur's end. Criminally
begotten, he passes his life in the shadow of a curse. Ignorant of
the facts of his parentage, he unwittingly repeats his father's crime,
and the offspring of his incestuous love, Mordred, becomes the
instrument of fate. Even his marriage to Guinevere is entered upon
in defiance of the prophetic warning of the woes that it will bring
upon him.
§ 5. The supernatural machinery of Arthurian romance is adapted
86
English Literature English Literature
to the purposes of moral allegory in Spenser's Faerie Queene. Spenser
may pretend to defend the existence of4
1that happy land of Faery "
over which his Fairy Queen reigns, and he is certainly no niggard
in his use of dragons and enchanters—Archimago and Busirane,
Duessa and Acrasia are brought in to supplement Merlin and Morgan
la Fay—but there is a falling-off in freshness and charm. One
suspects that Arthurian romance is here in the first stage of becoming
a literary convention, and later stages are perceptible in Sir Richard
Blackmore's Prince Arthur and K ing Arthur, and in Tennyson's
Idylls of the K in g. Milton might have recaptured its original
brightness, but, after considering the subject for epic treatment, he
relinquished it in favour of his supreme presentation of the conflict
between the divine and the satanic in Paradise Lost and Paradise
Regained. The supernaturalism of these poems, like that of Dante's
Divina Cotnmedia, defies brief analysis. In Comus, however, he
affords us an opportunity of judging his poetic treatment of what
might, by comparison, be called the more homely type of super­
naturalism—the evil enchanter Comus and his crew and, at the
opposite extreme, Sabrina and her water-nymphs.
§ 6. After Milton there was no considerable use of the supernatural
in poetry until the latter half of the 18th century. It could scarcely
hope to flourish in an age of rationalism, where poetry was largely
devoted to the “ town." But the way was gradually prepared for
its return. Scholars contributed by their historical inquiries into
Oriental, Celtic and Scandinavian myth. Poets, imbued with a
reviving sense of the mystery of natural forces, sought to reveal the
hidden meaning of these old mythologies. The muse, moreover,
returned to the countryside, where the supernatural finds its most
congenial setting. The revival of interest in the “ Gothic " past
involved a revival of medieval supernaturalism. From this time
onwards the supernatural bulks almost as large in literature as it
had done during the flourishing of romance.
§ 7. Oriental supematuralism, an exotic product familiarized to
the Romantics by their reading of the Arabian Nights, was extensively
cultivated by Southey, Moore and Byron. In Thalaba the Destroyer,
Southey reworks the vein opened up by Beckford's Vathek. A
corpse, lashed by scorpions, is reanimated by a sorceress, magicians
pay their devotions to a mummified head of loathsome appearance,
and Oriental voluptuousness enters in the description of AJoaddin's
false paradise. Impressive ghosts and witches appear in The Curse
o f Kehatna, where use is also made of such striking devices as the
elixir of life and the sorcerer's crystal globe formed from the light of
a thousand eyes. Moore's Lalla Rookh caters for every taste, ranging
as it does from charnel-house horrors to a delightful treatment of the
Peris, the Persian counterparts of the English fairies and by some
supposed to be their ancestors. Byron's The Giaour bears clearly
the impress of Vathek. Beckford's horrors are enhanced by Byron,
for his Giaour is doomed to play the vampire to his own daughter
before entering upon his eternal punishment in the Halls of Eblis.
$8. The poems based upon this florid type of supematuralism
87
English Literature English Literature
are but little read to-day. Far more appealing are those which
derive their inspiration from the revived interest in the romances
and ballads of medieval England. Particularly fruitful was the
example of such excellent primitive ballads on supernatural themes
as The W ife of Usher's Well, Fair Margaret and Sweet W illiam,
Sweet W illiam's Ghost, Clerk Saunders and Kem p Owyne, and of the
many later ballads dealing with fairies, ghosts, shape-shifting and
magic which Percy and Scott included in their collections. There
are, indeed, few supernatural poems of the late 18th and of the
19th century which do not proclaim, in spirit, substance or in form,
the influence of balladry. Coleridge's Ancient Mariner and Keats's
La BeUe Dame sans M erci are but the finest of its many offspring.
§ 9. The Romantic Revival led to the production of poetry involv­
ing all types of supernatural fancy and belief. The good fairies of
Shakespeare and Herrick return in Bowles's Fairy Sketch, Keats's
Song o f the Four Fairies, Darley's Sylvia and Hood's Plea of the
Midsummer Fairies. The " light infantry of Satan," those malicious
subterranean inhabitants especially rife in Scottish superstition,
provoke terror in Burns's Halloween, Hogg's Kiltneny, Sara Coleridge's
Phantasmion, and Christina Rossetti's Goblin Market. The sea-folk
are nowhere more sensitively treated than in Tennyson's The Merman,
The Mermaid, and The Sea-Fairies, or in Matthew Arnold's The
Forsaken Merman. Crude witches appear in Southey's The Witch
and The Old Woman of Berkeley; Bums's Tam o' Shanter describes
with dry humour a witches' sabbath; lovely witches bring evil in
their train in Scott's Glenfinlas, Coleridge's Christabel, Keats's La
Belle Dame and Charles Kingsley's Weird L a d y ; while akin to
witches, but free from evil and pathetic in their frailty, are the
beings of Keats's Lamia and Tennyson's Lady of Shalott. Ghosts
abound. Many are the wind-driven spirits popularized by Mac-
pherson's Ossian, the finest of which is Tennyson's adaptation of
the medieval ghost of Gawain in his Passing of Arthur. Avenging
spectres haunt the early poems of Scott, Blake and Shelley, and the
shades of departed lovers return to their mortal loves in Wordsworth's
Laodamia, Keats's Isabella and Beddoes's Ghost's Moonshine. In a
different key is the indefinable unearthly quality of Keats's Eve of
St, Agnes, recaptured later by Rossetti in The Blessed Damozel,
Notable, too, for the subtlety of their supernatural atmosphere are
Rossetti's Sister Helen and Rose M ary, where black magic provides
the theme, and, to take a recent example, Mr. de la Mare's The
Listeners, which attains its effect entirely by imaginative suggestion.
Lastly, bare mention may be made of those longer philosophical
poems which employ the supernatural machinery of past mythologies
to symbolize the mental and spiritual evolution of man. Blake's
Prophetic Books compound their symbolism from mythology and
supematuralism of many and varied sources ; the fairy world proves
readily amenable to Shelley's purposes in Queen M ab ; and Hellenic
myth is explored afresh in Keats's Hyperion, Shelley's Prometheus
Unbound, and Swinburne's Atalanta in Calydon. Hardy, believing
that 0 the wide prevalence of the Monistic theory of the Universe
English Literature English Literature
forbade, in this twentieth century, the importation of Divine person­
ages from any antique Mythology as ready-made sources or channels
of Causation, even in verse,” creates his own Phantom Intelligences
to supply the supernatural machinery of The Dynasts, but their
symbolical function remains unaltered.
Drama
§ io. In tragedy the supernatural has always played an important
part in evoking the emotion of awe and in creating the impression
of universality by suggesting that unseen powers are at work influenc­
ing the fate of men. In the semi-religious drama of the Greeks the
Fates and Furies exert their sway, the Ghost makes his appearance,
and the Gods come down to intervene in human affairs. In Roman
times Seneca emphasized the visible supernatural elements at the
expense of their intellectual and emotional suggestiveness, using them
as decorative aids to atmospheric effect. The medieval English
dramatists established the native practice of employing the super­
natural as an essential element in the fabric of the plot. Their
choice of material from biblical story determined the nature of the
supernatural beings in the miracle plays—God and his angels, Satan
and his devils, and, at times, the discamate Christ. The plays on
The Fall of the Angels, The Temptation of Christ, The Transfiguration,
The Harrowing of Hell and The Judgment Day well illustrate how
integral a part of the plot the supernatural could be, while its use
to heighten the conflict of human emotions is admirably seen in
The Sacrifice of Isaac (Brome MS.).
§11. At no period in the history of English drama has the super­
natural been so widely and so effectively employed as in Elizabethan
and Jacobean times. The presence of the divine figures of the
miracle plays could no longer be fittingly invoked, and the conflict
of good and evil within a man demanded subtler expression than
that afforded by the Good and Evil Angels of the morality plays.
Marlowe's Dr. Faustus, it is true, preserves the latter crudity, but
it more than compensates by its admirable Mephistopheles. Faustus
sells his soul to the devil in exchange for the boundless power and
knowledge to which Satanic magic provides the key. Hell is trans­
formed from a theatrical locality to a mental state. The judgment-
day is particularized in Faustus's own day of reckoning, the horror
of which we perceive by the anguish of his anticipation. Marlowe
triumphs here because he has intellectualized the supernatural
elements of the native tradition, rendered their application individual
instead of generic, and endowed them with the profoundest imagina­
tive significance. The majority of the Elizabethans, however, differ
from him in borrowing their supernatural devices from Senecan
tradition, although the native tradition determines the manner of
their employment.
§ 12. The Senecan ghost was speedily transformed from a spectator
of the action, as in Kyd's Spanish Tragedy, to an active participant.
Revenge usually prompts its return to earth, and the fully developed
revenge ghost emerges as the most notable supernatural creation of
s.o. 89 G
English Literature English Literature
the Elizabethan age. A certain crudity attaches to the ghosts of
Marston and Chapman, but Webster, who employs both the objective
and the subjective ghost, powerfully evokes from them an atmosphere
of abnormal horror. The most familiar of all revenge ghosts is that
of Hamlet's father. His return in spirit form is inspired not merely
by the desire for personal revenge for a " foul and most unnatural
murder," but by solicitude for the national welfare of Denmark
and the spiritual welfare of his widow Gertrude. Shakespeare,
content to make the spirit correspond to the dignified material form
of the murdered king, admits no unnatural exaggeration of the
ghostly qualities. His genius is seen in the manner in which he
combines the objective and the subjective in its presentation. In
so far as this ghost is visible to Bernardo, Marcellus and Horatio,
it is objective; but in the scene in the Queen's closet, where it is
visible to Hamlet only, it is subjective. Moreover, although it is
more closely involved in the dramatic action than any other Eliza­
bethan ghost, its chief function is to support suspicions already
aroused in Hamlet's “ prophetic soul," and these do not ripen to
conviction until the mouse-trap play confirms them. Thus Shake­
speare adapts his ghost to an age when the objective supernatural
was no longer a matter of unquestioning belief.
§ 13. The purely subjective apparitions of Julius Ccesar and
Macbeth illustrate even more clearly the enhanced imaginative effect
produced by relating the supernatural to the thoughts and emotions
of the living. In Julius Ccesar it is the personality, rather than the
ghost, of the dead Caesar which dominates the latter half of the
play, causing the conspirators to turn their swords against them­
selves. In Macbeth, Banquo's ghost, the creation of Macbeth's
guilty conscience, is divorced even from the suggestion of revenge
and seems instead to regulate its appearance by a fine sense of irony.
Something of the same irony attaches to the prophecies of the Weird
Sisters. In their subtlest aspect, they are the verbal expression of
Macbeth's own ambitions and temptations. Their mouthpieces,
although presented according to the popular conception of witches,
do nothing to move Macbeth to evil courses or to assist him in them.
Divorced from his personality, they would be of far less account
than the wise women of other plays of the period, such as Middleton's
The Witch, Dekker, Rowley and Ford's The Witch of Edmonton,
Heywood's The Wise Woman of Hogsdon,and Heywood and Brome's
The Late Lancashire Witches. To-day, the interest of such plays is
chiefly sociological, but Shakespeare's Weird Sisters, as supernatural
symbols of one aspect of Macbeth's psychology, defy the passage of
time and any change of attitude towards witchcraft. Shakespeare
clearly realized that ghosts and witches could not of themselves
guarantee the highest imaginative effect. To achieve this, he saw,
it was essential to show a sensitive mind reacting to their power of
suggestion, and the finer the mind the richer would be the effect.
Moreover, like all great dramatists, he suggests the presence of super­
natural forces without necessarily introducing the spectral. The
working of fate, the use of tragic irony, and the description of such
90
English Literature English Literature
perturbations of nature as accompanied the murder of Caesar and
Duncan are among the means whereby he endows human action
with moré than human significance.
5 14. It is to Shakespeare also that we must turn for the finest
use of the supernatural in comedy. In A Midsummer Night*s Dream
the delicate fairy element is so supremely presented that even the
contact of sheer realism in the “ rude mechanicals ” does not dispel
the illusion. The supematuralism of The Tempest so enhances and
transforms mortal activities that the final interest of the play rests
in its symbolical representation of universal truths. Romantic
comedy alone admits of such achievements. In types of comedy
where realism and rationalism strike the keynote, “ supernatural ”
figures will usually prove to be mortals in disguise, as is the case
with the 0 ghosts ” of Farquhar's Sir Harry Wildair and Addison's
Drummer, or they may be presented in so sceptical a spirit that their
imaginative effect is nil, as in ShadwelTs Lancashire Witches.
§15. Such supernatural visitants as appear in Restoration and
18th-century drama are little more than meaningless relics of the
Elizabethan theatre carried over into an uninterested and uncongenial
age. They excite no awe, and often they are so clumsily mani­
pulated that they fail even to be spectacular. In the 19th century
Beddoes makes a flotable return to the imaginative supematuralism
of the Elizabethans in Death*s Jest Book (1825), and the poetic drama
of the age has its minor successes ; but it was left for the Irish play­
wrights of our own day to bring back the supernatural to the theatre
and to render it acceptable to modem taste. Recapturing the
strangeness and beauty of Celtic superstition, they seek to create an
atmosphere charged with the mystery of the unseen and the indefin­
able rather than to display the cruder manifestations of the super­
natural. One is conscious that " more is meant than meets the
ear '' ; one senses invisible presences as vivid, though as indefinite,
as the voices of Shaw's Saint Joan. And it is worthy of note that
in the plays of Mr. W. B Yeats, J. M. Synge, Mr. Gordon Bottomley,
Lord Dunsany and Mr. Sean O'Casey, the revival of the supernatural
is accompanied by a revival of poetic feeling.
Prose
§ 16. The supernatural was first domesticated as an element in
English prose fiction by the writers of Gothic romance. Walpole's
Castle o f Otranto (1764), the earliest example of the type by a genera­
tion, sets the fashion of housing its blatantly crude spectre in a
gloomy Gothic castle liberally provided with secret passages, trap­
doors and dungeons, and of seeking nightmare effects by the introduc­
tion of the tolling of bells, the flitting of owls and bats, horrid groans,
unearthly music, and such accompaniments of ghostly visitation as
uproar in the heavens, prodigious thunder-claps, an unnatural chill
in the atmosphere and a tendency on the part of candles and lamps
to bum with an eerie blue flame. Other disturbing phenomena are
the armed apparition, of such vastness that even a spacious Gothic
castle permits only of its appearance piecemeal; the portrait which
9i
English Literature English Literature
utters deep sighs, heaves its breast, and quits its panel with a grave
and melancholy air; the statue which discharges three drops of
blood from its nose by way of protest against a proposed marriage
and later dilates to enormous proportions in order to render more
impressive its valedictory prophecy ; and the praying friar who, on
close examination, reveals “ the fleshless jaws and empty sockets of
a skeleton, wrapt in a hermit's cowl." By such devices did the
Gothic romancers seek to terrorize their readers. In their own day,
apparently, they succeeded, but to us their chief interest is that they
prompted the delicious parody of Jane Austen's Northanger Abbey
and Peacock's Nightmare Abbey. Anne Radcliffe, Charles Robert
Maturin, " Monk " Lewis, Clara Reeve and a few others can still be
read, but with amusement rather than horror. Their supematuralism
has its importance for its effect on succeeding writers at home and
abroad, but in itself it is too naive to touch the imagination. A
certain interest, however, attaches to the introduction of supernatural
elements of a quasi-scientific cast, from which developed the super­
natural science of later prose fiction. The elixir of life, the philo­
sophers' stone, satanic chemistry, and (in Mary Shelley's genuinely
awe-inspiring Frankenstein) the synthetic creation of a living being
are effectively exploited, while semi-supernatural effects are achieved
through telepathy, hypnotism, ventriloquism and somnambulism.
§ 17. The Gothic romance, acting both directly and, through the
products of German romanticism, indirectly, strongly influenced the
work of Scott, De Quincey, Hawthorne and Poe. In his Waverley
Novels and his narrative poems Scott, lover of the past, amateur of
early ballads, editor and fervent admirer of The Castle o f Otranto,
and eager student of German literature of diablerie, achieves a fusion
of most of the existing phases of romanticism. Like Walpole, he
has a taste for Gothic settings and for climatic conditions that
conduce to an atmosphere of nightmarish suspense, but his treatment
of the supernatural in such a piece as “ Wandering Willie's Tale "
shows a mastery unapproached by any Gothic romancer. Scott
realized that an element of naturalness is an aid to belief even when
dealing with the supernatural. De Quincey makes rich use of the
supematuralism of dreams in his dream-fugues, such as Our Ladies
o f Sorrow, while his account of the Williams mtirders, formerly
attached to the Essay on Murder, proves him the equal of Poe in
his power of suggesting the horror of the unexpressed and that
atmosphere of grim suspense which foreruns disaster. His writings
consistently reveal a vivid perception of the mysterious side of even
the common aspects of life, particularly night-life, and this love of
the shadows is shared by Hawthorne and Poe. Hawthorne, in his
own words, was “ a lover of the brown twilight," of that pleasant
half-light which, by softening the sharp outlines, encourages the
fantasy to remould reality to its own desires. Poe, on the other
hand, preferred the profounder gloom which moves the imagination
chiefly to the horrible and the morbid. Often in these and succeeding
writers the uncanny is largely a matter of atmosphere, but one reacts
to tales of theirs which have no objective supernatural manifestations
92
English Literature English Literature
far more readily than to many where ghosts and magic abound. It
is, indeed, a very fine line that divides the " mystery and imagina­
tion '' of Poe's tales from the supematuralism of other writers.
The imaginative effect of his mesmerism, for example, is the same
inkind as that of the traditional magic of some of Hawthorne'snovels.
§ 18. From this time onward the tendency to relate the super­
natural to the psychology of the individual has become increasingly
manifest in prose fiction. The influence of such foreign writers as
De Maupassant, Gautier, Maeterlinck, Ibsen, Tolstoi, Gogol and
Turgeniev encouraged this. De Maupassant, moreover, showed the
virtues of brevity, with the result that the short story has become
the favourite medium of modem writers. The forms which the
supernatural may take are legion. Needless to say, the ghost
persists, and of the making of ghost stories there is no end. Such
widely separated works of fiction as Emily Bronte's Wuthering
Heights and Henry James's The Turn of the Screw show that the
objective ghost is still an awe-inspiring figure. Occasionally the
objective ghost delegates his task to a part of his former bodily
frame—the head in Wilkie Collins's Haunted Hotel, the hand in
Lord Lytton's Haunters and the Haunted, and the eyes in his Strange
Story. Some of Ambrose Bierce's excellent stories of the supernatural
illustrate the modem tendency to make the objective ghost correspond
in every detail to the corporeal prototype; for example, in The
Middle Toe of the Right Foot the identity of a ghost is recognized
by its physical deformity. In O. Henry's The Furnished Room the
ghost leaves behind it a recognizable scent of perfume. W. W. Jacobs
makes effective use of ghostly sounds in The Monkey's Paw, but for
the most part ghosts are no longer heralded by a fanfare of trumpets.
The subjective ghost is frequently invoked. Algernon Blackwood's
ghosts are to a great extent subjective, while the admirable ghost
stories of Dr. M. R. James play subtly upon both the objective and
subjective. In such a tale as Seaton's Aunt Mr. de la Mare, by the
vivid suggestiveness of subtly created atmosphere, achieves the full
imaginative effect of the ghostly without actually introducing super­
natural figures. As terrifying as any ghost are the invisible beings
of Bierce's The Damned Thing and H. G. Wells's The Invisible M an,
or those dual personalities of Poe's William Wilson, Stevenson's Dr.
Jekyll and M r. Hyde, and Kipling's A t the E n d of the Passage. Modi­
fications of the latter idea are to be seen in Wilde's Picture of Dorian
Grey and Wells's Story of the late M r. Elvesham.
§ 19. The devil and his allies reappear from time to time, some­
times jocularly, as in Washington Irving's The Devil and Tom Walker
and Mark Twain's The Mysterious Stranger, but more often in grim
earnest. The old werewolf motive is exploited in Hugh Walpole's
Tarnhelm, Kipling's The M ark o f the Beast, Bierce's The Eyes of the
Panther and numerous other modem stories. Vampires enter such
tales as E. F. Benson's The Room in the Tower, Blackwood's The
Transfer, and Bram Stoker's popular Dracula, while a psychic vampire
appears in Conan Doyle's The Parasite. Far more significant, how­
ever, is the concern of such writers as Arthur Machen and Charles
93
English Literature English Literature
Williams with the full mysteries of the black art, which in them is
raised above question and presented as an exact science. Williams's
War in Heaven affords a particularly striking picture of the conflict
of the forces of satanic magic and of Christianity, the latter being
rallied around the Holy Grail by the reincarnate Prester John.
§ 20. The attraction of that will-o'-the-wisp, the elixir of life,
shows no sign of abating. After the Gothic romancers it is employed
by Hawthorne in Septimius Felton, The DoUiver Romance and D r.
Heidigger’s Experim ent; by that earnest occultist Lytton in A
Strange Story; and by various writers on the theme of the Wandering
Jew. Rider Haggard uses it in conjunction with metempsychosis in
She and Ayesha, and Wells relates it to a transfer of personality in
The Story of the late M r. Elvesham. Judicious manipulation of
modem science has, however, opened many other avenues to super­
natural effect. As Miss Dorothy Scarborough says in her monograph
on The Supernatural in Modern English Fiction (1917), ghost stories
are nowevolved from the laboratory, not the tomb. Wells represents
at its most ingenious this pseudo-scientific school. In addition
to those devices of his already mentioned he gives new life to the
old theme of second sight in The Remarkable Case o f Davidson*s
Eyes, juggles with time by invoking the fourth dimension in The
Plattner Case and The Tim e M achine, creates a botanical vampire
in The Flowering of the Strange Orchid, and exploits vivisection for
supernatural ends in The Island o f Dr. Moreau. There would seem
to be no limit to the marvels which can be raised upon the foundation
of pseudo-science.
§ 21. The devices of “ the fairy tales of science " are really little
more than the modem equivalents of Chaucer's horse of brass.
Present-day literature as a whole illustrates as clearly as that of
medieval and Shakespearian times the unchanging fact that the
primary function of the supernatural is to heighten our imaginative
sensibility by stimulating our capacity for wonder. An illusion of
scientific realism is less potent an aid to this end than intangible
wisps of suggestion or the presence of shadowy beings that carry
complete conviction but to the eye of childhood. To the eternal
child-like element in mankind these beings still appeal vividly,
irrespective of intellectual belief or disbelief in them, and some of
the finest pieces of supernatural writing in the language succeed by
invoking no more than that shadowy world of superstition inherited
from the infancy of the race. Often, however, there is combined
with the evocation of the simple element of wonder a deeper purpose.
To give to airy nothing a local habitation and a name may well be
the first step towards penetrating the recesses of individual psychology
or illuminating symbolically the wider problem of mankind's destiny
in a universe abounding in perplexing phenomena. Such ends
being served, the supernatural agents can be dismissed without
impinging on intellectual belief. In Prospero's words:
These our actors,
As I foretold you, were all spirits and
Are melted into air, into thin a ir;
94
Enki Faimes
And» like the baseless fabric of this vision.
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve
And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
As dreams are made on, and our little life
Is rounded with a sleep.
F . E . B u d d .
E n k i. See Ea. hand, there is also a gigantic fairy
race—rather rare—before whose
E n l il . See History of Occult towering heights the entire house
Ideas, §§ 33, 35. appears like a toy. The common
type of fairy, when fully grown,
E pw o r th G h o st. See Spiritual- may stand anything between two
ism , Part II, § 49. and three feet in his stockinged-
feet ; but irrespective of size they
E r ls. See Fairies, §8. mischievouslymeddlein theaffairs
of human beings and thereby fre-
E rto, P. See Spiritualism, Part quently cause a great deal of
II, § 32. trouble, although they are re­
garded as far more benign than
E urope [e a r l y ], o ccu lt ideas in . malignant. The slightest insult
See History of Occult Ideas, mightincurthe fairies* displeasure,
§§ 86-91. with the result that a baby is
carried off from the cradle and in
E van s, S ir A rth u r. SeeHistory its place is left a changeling, in the
of Occult Ideas, § 58. shape of an ugly, wizened, little
old man. Youths marrying fairy
E v il E y e . See Black Magic, § 20. maidens (an indiscretion far from
uncommon) do so at their own
E v il E y e in I n d ia . See Indian risk. All will be well, provided
Occultism, § 11. certain conditions, imposed on the
occasion of the wedding, are
E x o rcism . See White M agic, § 8. adhered to ; but alas, simple as
this appears, the fulfilment of
“ E xtr a .” See Spiritualism, Part these conditions ultimately proves
II, § 33. to demand nothing short of super­
human abilities. Visitors to
Fairyland are strongly advised not
to partake of refreshment there,
FAIRIES no matter how tempting the
delicacies offered, nor how press-
§ 1. Fairies are a race of im- ing the host may be, for the con-
mortal beings inhuman shape, but sumption of fairy food produces
of diminutive stature—so very an enchanted state that will for
tiny sometimes, that they are sup- ever prevent the adventurer's
posed to pass in and out of the return to mortal men.
house by way of the street-door § 2. William Blake, the en-
keyhole with no danger of knock- graver, given to “ seeing things,"
ing their heads. On the other after one of his hallucinatory
95
F airies
attacks, claimedto have witnessed
a fairy's funeral. W. B. Yeats,
the Irish poet, hearing of this,
remarked on the inferiority of
English fairies, as all those in
Ireland are immortal. However,
leaving Mr. Blake and other
" mystics ” in his category out of
the question, in England " grown­
ups " do not, nowadays, really
believe that a saucer of milk must
be left standing overnight for
Puck, or Robin Goodfellow, who
will do all the housework in re­
turn ; neither, when walking in
woodland, does the adult expect
to see pixies or nixies, suitably
attired, careering in a ring around
a large toadstool. In Scotland,
however, it is quite another
matter. There, brownies most
unquestionably do dance in the
heather. Grown men and women,
even when they are sober, see
them often enough;—and as for
Ireland, the country is simply full
of them. There the " little peo­
ple ” dwell in the raths (those old
earthwork forts which enabled the
Bronze Age Irish kings to make a
a stand against the Berserker
vikings), from whence they come
forth at all hours of the day and
night to be up to their pranks—
a favourite one being to let the
cattle loose. They will also do a
kindly service in return for a small
reward. Whirls of dust are due
to the fairy army marching, with
pipers, and lances glittering under
the moon, reminding one of the
great Bronze Age hero-kings, who
were themselves, in endurance and
bravery, all but immortal.
§ 3. To Ireland, too, belongs
the leprechaun, an industrious
little fellow, perpetually hammer­
ing away at a pair of shoes, and
avoiding company. Not one of
themhas ever been knownto come
F airies
nearer a human habitation than
the back garden; on the con­
trary, it is the humans who
trouble the leprechauns, for, due
to his perpetual industry, each
member of the family possesses a
" crock o' gold ” to which he is
compelled to lead whosoever may
catch himby the beard. By some
inexplicable adjustment of mor­
ality, it is not considered dis­
honest to steal fairy gold, but
there is not much good to be got
of it ; it will trickle through the
fingers in sheer waste.
§ 4. Persian fairy legend recog­
nizes two kinds of beings: the
deeves and the peris ; the latter
displaying friendly inclinations
towards man. The two races
wage war upon each other, and, in
days gone by, from time to time a
human hero was called by the
peris to assist them against their
enemy. The female peri is con­
sidered of such exquisite beauty
that even the Persian poets cannot
adequately describe her, whilst the
deeves, of either sex, are so
grotesquely ugly that the descrip­
tion of a sprite possessed of horns,
tail and talons, conveys a comely
picture by comparison.
§ 5. The Arabs have their genii,
or jinns, powerful if somewhat
amorphous, who can be confined
in finger-rings, brazen vessels, and
of course lamps, from whence they
may be called forth by friction to
do their owner's bidding.
§ 6. Medieval European legend
abounds in fairy-lore borrowed
from the Orient. Sir Lancelot
was sumamed Du Lac, because
the sorceress, La Dame du Lac,
Merlin's paramour, carried him
off in infancy. Sir Launfal
wedded a fairy maiden named
Tryamour, who presented him
with a never-failing purse. The
F airies F airies
little fairy King Oberon stands as in elves, white and black, good
a transition stage between the and bad. The former fly on
romantic immortals of human gauze wings and dance upon the
stature, and the Teutonic elves, meadows; the latter dwell in
Oberon, with King Arthur of underground caverns fromwhence
Round Table fame, dwelt at they hurl forth malediction on
Avalon— " an enchanted isle hav- human beings. The elves are
ing an enchanted castle builded in musicians, and there is a special
its midst.” This was theentrance elf-king's tune which, though
to Fairyland, and woe betide the known right well to good fiddlers,
mortal who travelled there, must never be played because all
Rescue was impossible by valour, who hear it will be bewitched into
but it might be effected by a ceaseless dance till some person
charms ; hence when King Orfeo comes secretly behind the fiddler
of Winchester called all his and at a snip cuts all his strings,
knights to surround the “ ympe- The white elves love neatness and
tree ” (imp-tree) beneath which order, and any good housemaid
his queen, Heurodis, had been who strives to attain this will find
bewitched, they were unable to the fairies assist her. A friendly
S
»revent her abduction by the elf may bestow upon one the gift
airy king ; consequently Orfeo of second sight, or supply an elf-
abandoned his throne and became book, a sort of ready-reckoner
a wandering minstrel, winning which enables the possessor to
back his wife by the exquisite foretell the future. Elves are
beauty of his harp music, which sometimes termed elles, or erls.
cast an enrapturing spell over the The erl-king is supposed to ride in
fairy king. a chariot, and guard the land.
§ 7. The Scandinavian people Also native to Nordic countries is
have their mischievous troll folk the nis, or kobold—a dwarf who
of the hills, grotesque dwarfs dresses in grey and wears a red
considered good for nothing, and pointed cap ; no farm can prosper
near relations of the alfar, or alp— without a nis about it, and in fact
a form of nightmare fiend. A the village church really needs
very different dwarf, however, is a nis if it is to remain safe and
the duergar, also a mountain free from abuses. The church nis
sprite, distinguished by a miracu- is commonly called kirkegrim.
lous skill in smelting and working Nisses are good fellows, provided
in metals. They have short legs you leave their porridge, with
and long arms so that their hands plenty of butter in it, in a wooden
and feet are all upon the ground bowl beside the hearth. If you
together, reminding one of the are near with the butter the nis
orang-outang; but, from the may lose his temper, then any-
finest filigree in gold and silver, to thing can happen. He might
the most invincible swords and even kill the cow!
suits of armour, their superhuman § 9. An altogether different
skill in manufacture endeared creature is the neck, or river-
them to gods and men alike, when spirit. Taking the form of a
men and gods fraternized in both beautiful youth he sits on the
peaceable and warlike pursuits, surface of the streamplaying upon
§ 8. All Nordic peoples believe a golden harp. He is wont to
97
F airies
punish maidens who are fickle in
e, but otherwise is harmless.
Nevertheless, it is well to carry an
unsheathed knife in the bottom of
your boat, and so “ bind the
neck/* Another form of the neck
is the fossegrim ; and in Scotland,
the kelpie, in the shape of a horse,
haunts lakes and streams, with
the evil intention of upsetting
boats and drowning sailors.
§ io. In Shetland the trows,
and in the Orkneys the brownies,
aremore orlessof a breedwith the
Nordic family of elves, possessing
similar form, features and habits.
§ i i . In the Nibelungenlied, the
dwarf Albrich plays an important
role. Although barely as high as
a warrior's knee he was endowed,
by virtue of his magic ring and
girdle, with the strength, endur­
ance and valour of four-and-
twenty chosen knights—so he was
invincible save by cunning. He
was eventually overcome and his
treasure purloined. In modem
Germany, belief is still held in a
race of dwarfs, called ground-
manikins, or still-people, who for
the most part have nocommunica­
tion with men. To please them
merits reward; to offend them
results in their attack upon cattle.
They dwell underground in little
caverns lined with gold and gems.
These abodes have no entrances,
because the still-people can pass
through solid things like rock, just
as easily as mortals move through
air. Sometimes, for no very
apparent reason, they become
visible and present themselves on
some festive occasion—a wed­
ding, for instance—and beg to
join the revels. They invariably
dance very well, give a great deal
of sage and Christian advice, and
leave a piece of money behind
them.
F airies
§ 12. Dwarfs in the Hartz
mountains have a bad reputation
for pilfering not only from the
fields but also from village shop­
keepers. This is a pity, as it has
resulted in their expulsion from
many districts. The peasants are
the losers in the long run, for what
little the dwarfs stole was, surely,
replaced adequately by their gifts
of gold at weddings.
§ 13. In the neighbourhood of
Salzburg dwell the wild-women.
They make their abode in hollow
hills, are rarely seen, but whenever
they do appear reports of their
exquisite beauty are carried back
to the villagers. They are gener­
ally a pious and moral race, very
fond of children, and inclined to
run off with little human boys and
girls if the parents do not keep a
sharplook-out. A story is told of
Count Otto of Oldenburg (a.d.
967), who, stopping his horse on a
burning hot day, wiped his per­
spiring brow and said aloud, " Oh
God I if one had now but a cool
drink! ” Immediately a wild-
woman appeared and offered him
a silver vessel shaped like a horn
containing a liquid which the
count feared to quaff. Deliberat­
ing with himself, some of the
liquid was spilled on the horse,
whereupon the animal's sleek coat
was miraculously dissolved, and
its skin laid bare! Seeing her
wiles were discovered, the en­
chantress demanded the horn's
return, but the count galloped off
with it, and preserved it as an
heirloom. The Oldenburg horn,
whatever its origin may have
been, actually exists, and is in the
King of Denmark's collection.
§ 14. Fairies are not infre­
quently associated with family
history. The Musgraves of Eden
Hall possess a glass vessel painted
F airies
with gay designs and known as
" The Luck of Eden Hall." It is
supposed to have been snatched
by a servant from a party of elves
who were drawing water from St.
Cuthbert's Well. In vain did the
little men plead for the vessel's
return, and at last going off in a
huff they cried:
If that glass ever break or fall.
Farewell the Luck of Eden Hall.
The estate has been sold, but the
family preserves the vessel.
Judging by its design, one would
say the elves who lost it had
Moorish blood in their veins.
§15. Another historical in­
stance of the fairies' intercourse
with men, is the case of Anne
Jefferies of St. Teath in Cornwall,
who, in 1696, was instructed in
the art of healing by " six small
people, all in green clothes."
art she applied so well that
her activities attracted the atten­
tion of Dr. Fowler, Bishop of
Gloucester. Anne Jefferies's
fairies were called " hobgoblins,"
which rather distinguishes them
from plain goblins, these latter
folk having no streak of good in
their nature—like imps, who, as
is well known, are the Devil's
diminutive disciples.
§ 16. In Switzerland, the berg-
tnanchen, or hill-men, are as kind
and friendly to mortals as are
their duplicates elsewhere. They
drive home strayed lambs, supply
peasants with firewood, and some­
times present them with magic
cheeses, which are akin to the
widow's cruse, for, when a piece
is cut and eaten, the remainder
grows again, becoming a whole
cheese. In summertime the berg-
manchen leave the hills and
lounge about the valleys watching
mortals at work. They particu­
larly like the haymaking season,
99
F airies
and at one time could be seen
swarming around by the hundred.
Nowadays they remain invisible
because a foolish peasant once
played a joke off on them—a
painful practical joke—and they
quite rightly resented it.
§ 17. In ancient Greece, wood-
nymphs attended Artemis; sea-
nymphs saved pious sailors from
shipwreck; spring and river-
nymphs poured freshness upon the
earth; dryads and hamadryads
personified vegetation; the
oreads and oceanides haunted
respectively mountain and sea­
shore ; but we have no record of
a dwarf family. Rome added
nothing to Greek fairy-lore;
modem Italy, however, boasts its
monaciello, a very close relation of
the elf-brownie-pixie-troll family.
We also hear of a race of fairies of
normal human stature, though no
different innature fromthe dwarfs.
§ 18. It appears then, that
though variously named, the
fairies are of one breed through­
out the world, and are especially
prevalent in mountainous or
marshy districts. Will-o'-the-
wisp, or Jack-o'-lantem, the weird
blue light of spontaneously com­
bustible marsh-gas, is the fairy
lantern in the swamp: the tiny
mumbling echo of falling rills re­
presents their voices in the fells.
The Arab in the desert sees in the
dust-cloud a genie, while the
Europeanized Jew still believes
in shedeetn, shehireetn, or mazi-
keen, the vast shapeless powers
which he learned to know in his
desert wanderings—the jinn of the
Arab in Hebrew form.
J-
Book recommended:
Hartland, E. S., The Science of
Fairy Tales (Methuen, 1925).
Faith Healing
Faith Healing. See Psycho-ther­
apy and Psychic Phenomena.
Fakirs. Oriental conjurers.
Falkenberg. See Flying Dutch­
man.
Familiar. See Witchcraft, § 13.
Fan-wang K ing. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 6.
Faraday. See Spiritualism, Part
I , § 2 5 .
Farquhar. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 14.
Fasti. SeeHistoryofOccultIdeas,
§ 74-
Fox
Flamel, Nicholas. See Alchemy,
§ 3i-
Flammarion, C. See Alchemy,
§ 6; and Literature of Occult­
ism, § 35.
Flibbertigibbet. A Devil. Shake­
speare uses it in Lear.
Fludd, Robert. See Literature
of Occultism, § 12.
Flying Dutchman. A phantom
ship seen about the “ Cape of
Storms " (Cape of Good Hope),
and also in the North Sea and
on most other seas. The skip­
per is Van Straaten, or Falken­
berg, who plays dice on deck
with the Devil.
Fata Morgana. See Illusion and Folk Medicine. SeeWhiteMagic,
Hallucination, § 5. § 8.
Father of L ies. The Devil. Forthuny, Pascal. See Spirit­
ualism, Part III, § 30.
Father of Pharmacy. See Man-1
drake, § 1. Fortune, Dr. R. F. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 18.
Feathered Snake, the. See His-1
tory of Occult Ideas, § 101. Fortune-telling. See White
, Magic, §§ 3-7-
Fecundity Cult. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 39-41. Fo-Shou. See Buddha's hand.
Feng Shui. See Chinese Occult- Fossegrim. See Fairies, § 9.
iSW’ § l6- |Four Signs. See Buddhist Oc-
“ Ferguson, John.” See Spirit- cultism, § i.
ualism, Part III, §§ 18-21. . 0 rT. .
33 |Fourth Dimension. See History
Fetch. The apparitionof a living °f Occult Ideas, §67.
person ; a spiritual “ double ”
appearing for the purpose of Four T hrone-bearers. SeeAfas-
giving warning of approaching ^
em Occultism, § 1.
<
*ea*k‘ |Fox, the. In China he is con-
Finnet, A. G. See Spiritualism, sidered to be the “ horse " on
Part III, § 4. which ghosts ride. He is also
propitiated by sacrifices, to pre-
Fiona MACLEOD. SeeSharp, Wm. vent his doing mischief. Wor-
100
Fox
ship of the fox is thought to
bring wealth.
Fox, Family of. See Spiritual-
ism, Part I, §§ 5-10.
Frankenstein. From a novel by
Mary Shelley, in which a scien­
tist named Frankenstein makes
a Robot which murders him.
The word is used popularly to
designate the monster instead
of the man. Used politically,
it means a proposition that has
brought its originator into dis­
repute ; and commercially or
otherwise, it signifies a scheme
that has ruined its promoters.
See English Literature and the
Occult, § 16.
Frazer, Sir James G. See Black
M agic, §§ 4, 5, 20 ; Literature
o f Occultism, §18 ; White Magic,
§§ 9, 12, 15; and Witchcraft,
§ 4.
Ghoghar
Gandillion, Perrenette. See
Werewolf, § 6.
Garlic. See Mandrake, § 7 ; and
Vampire, the, § 10.
Garrett, Mrs. E. See Spiritual­
ism, Part III, § 6.
Gastromancy. Divination by
means of ventriloquism.
Gatty, Oliver. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 18.
Gautama Sakyamuni. See Bud­
dhist Occultism, § 3.
Gautier. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 18.
Gawain, Sir. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 4.
Geber. See Alchemy, §§ 23-64.
Freemasons and Devil-worship.
See Devil worship, § 4; and
Black Magic, § 8.
French Sensitives. See Spirit­
ualism, Part III, § 27.
Freud, Professor Sigmund. See
Literature of Occultism, § 34;
and Psycho-therapy and Psychic
Phenomena, §§ 1, 12.
Fugger, Sigismund. Sett Alchemy,
§ 36.
Fylfot. See Swastika.
Gadbury, John. See Literature
of Occultism, § 24.
Galileo. SeeAlchemy, § 46, near
beginning.
Geloscopy. Divination by a per­
son's mode of laughter.
Genesis. See Mandrake, § 5 ;
Moslem Occultism, § 9 ; and
History of Occult Ideas, § 35.
Genethalics. Divination by the
stars at birth.
Genii. See Fairies, § 5.
Geoffrey de Saint-Omer. See
Black Magic, § 8.
Geomancy. Divination by dots
made at random on paper. Also,
divination by the signs offered
in contours of hills, the courses
of rivers, etc.
GHOGHAR. See Indian Occultism,
§ 13.
iox
Ghosts Ghosts
GHOSTS
5 i. When John Crook, the Quaker, was placed under arrest on
account of his spiritual “ convincement,” a friendly magistrate,
instead of confining him in the local jail, offered him hospitality at
his own house, at the same time apologizing for the necessity of
putting him in a haunted room. In the middle of the night the
conventional ghost appeared, clad in white, laden with jangling
chains, and crying in sepulchral tones, “ You are damned! You
are damned! '' Without hesitation the pious Quaker replied,
" Indeed, friend, thou art a liar, for I feel this moment the sweet
peace of my God flow through my heart I” The result was a con­
fession from the ghost to the effect that he and fellow-servants were
attempting to keep that part of the house unoccupied, to facilitate
a robbery they had planned. This perhaps holds the record for
rapid and easy “ laying ” of a ghost; next comes “ the best authen­
ticated ghost-story on record," having as its protagonist none other
than Samuel Wilberforce, Bishop of Winchester. Staying at the
country residence of a Roman Catholic family, he met on the stair­
case a young monk going towards the library. Not seeing him again
at meals or elsewhere, Wilberforce made some inquiry of his hostess
and learned that the monk was not a member of the house-party,
but just the family ghost who, it appeared, had at some time been
the family father confessor. At about midnight, sitting in the
library, Wilberforce was disturbed at his reading by the monk
entering and searching about at the bookcases—apparently in vain,
for he disappeared after glancing disconsolately towards Wilberforce.
At that time, the cleric did not believe in ghosts; nevertheless, he
stayed up late in the library the following night to see what he
would see I The last stroke of twelve had barely finished humming
in the massive old clockcase when there came an ominous creak
from the stairs—the library door opened—enter the monk! Wil­
berforce kept cool, and as soon as the visitant was at the book­
shelves he inquired in as casual a tone as possible, “ What is it
that you require ? " Whereupon the ghost turned round, smiled,
and said he was very glad someone had sufficient sense to speak
to himat last, as he wasnot permitted to start a conversation. The
fact was that some incriminating papers were hidden in the book­
case—the monk knew it, having himself concealed them—and should
they come to light and get into unscrupulous hands, it might prove
very unpleasant and embarrassing for the family. Further conver­
sation resulted in Wilberforce joining in the search, and at last,
mounting the library-steps at the monk's request, he found the
documents on top of the shelves. Together, the living and the
shade of the dead set to work burning the papers, and as the last
flicker of consuming fire leapt and faded on the blackened edge of
the final sheet, the ghost disappeared—never to return. This is
the world's most authentic ghost-story, because who would presume
to doubt the word of a bishop? Nevertheless, one does wonder
why the monk troubled to become a ghost, and was either too stupid
102
Ghosts Ghosts
or too lazy to look on top of the bookcase, more especially as he
must have known he put the papers there; and also, why no
servant had come upon them when dusting in that place, and
remarked upon the discovery. And to complete our inquisitiveness,
it would be interesting to know the attitude of the family under
the circumstances; a really respectable ghost being as valuable
an adjunct as an unblemished escutcheon.
5 2. Bishop Wilberforce is not the only highly placed churchman
to meet an apparition in an old mansion's library. The Rev. Dr.
Jessop of Norfolk had such an experience and wrote it up for so
dignified a journal as the Athenäum . Wishing to consult some old
books in the collection of Lord Orford, he visited Mannington Hall,
and working during the night saw, at about i a.m., a large white
hand resting on the table near his elbow. Turning, he beheld the
whole figure “ dressed in what I can only describe as a kind of.
ecclesiastical habit of thick corded silk." Jessop decided to make
a sketch of the intruder (it was part of a gentleman's education in
those days—no especial skill was required), remembered he had no
sketch-book with him, wondered if he should go upstairs to fetch
it from his bedroom, but being afraid to lose the apparition decided
not to move. However, he disturbed a book and the phantom
vanished. Soon it became visible again and Jessop made up his
mind to speak, but found that he could not articulate. “ There he
sat, and there sat I "— and so the incident ended, for finishing his
work Jessop went to bed and slept without any ghostly disturbance,
and, apparently, without taking the trouble to make inquiries from
his host, or the servants, in the morning.
§ 3. Libraries are always to be regarded with suspicion. At Fel-
brigg, some ten miles from Mannington Hall, the ghost of one of
the Windhams who built the place, was said by the owners, certain
Miss Kettons, to haunt the book-shelves, searching for his favourite
volume. Traditional ghosts are in the main rather purposeless,
unless the function of presaging the demise of “ his lordship " be
considered useful; but the gentleman could surely be relied upon
to depart this life without “ being called for."
§ 4. Many of “ the stately homes of England," as they are generally
described by the romantic, have their ghosts attached, and provided
the house is old and ivy-clad, and styled a castle, grange, or manor,
the weird intruder does but add value to the edifice. It is said that
just after the War, when millionaire hucksters were purchasing
" homes," a ghost in a vacant country-house increased the value
by thousands of pounds. A modem villa, however, must boast a
clean bill of health psychically, just asit must bear sanitary authori­
ties' certificates concerning the state of the drains. Any person
finding himself haunted in a recently constructed dwelling had better
be quiet about it, for to boast, or even complain, may result in an
action being brought by the owner for " slander of title." There
was, at Egham, a house in which doors opened, the knobs turned
without hands upon them, and footfalls were heard; wherein a
little girl beheld " a small old man creeping about the house,"
103
Ghosts Ghosts
Ultimately the tenant fled, and a certain daily paper made good use
of the story in filling a column or two, with the result that the place
could not be re-let. The landlord took legal action and the news­
paper paid two hundred pounds to settle out of court. Soon after
this, and no doubt on account of the publicity, the tenant of a
house in Balham ceased to pay rent because of a ghost that obligingly
made a sudden appearance. On this occasion the affair went into
court, where it was decided that ghosts were not sufficiently good
excuses, and judgment was given in favour of the landlord.
S 5* Modem ghosts have a vogue outside of houses. A story that
created a sensation in 1913 was recounted by the vicar of a Ken­
sington church. Leaving the building after choir-practice, he was
detained by an agitated lady who implored him to accompany her
at once to an address near by because a gentleman there was dying.
Without ceremony she pushed him into a waiting taxi which soon
took them to the house. The vicar mounted the front steps, rang
the bell, and on inquiring from the butler, learned that the occupant,
far from being in a dying condition, was not even ill. “ But this
lady-----*' said the clergyman turning round—only to discover that
the lady, the taxi, and its driver had vanished. Not driven off, be
it understood, but vanished ! dissolved into thin air as it were. At
that moment, the master of the house entered the hall, and on
learning the circumstances of the visit, asked the vicar in, confess­
ing that though he was quite well he actually did feel that he ought
to consult a clergyman on certain matters of conscience. After
about an hour's talk the vicar departed having arranged to call
again the following evening—which he did, only to learn that in
the interim the gentleman had suddenly dropped dead. Ascending
the stairs to the bedroom the vicar saw, on a table beside the bed
on which the corpse lay, a photograph of the lady who had sum­
moned him in the first instance. Inquiring of the butler, he learned
that it was the master's wife who had died some fifteen years earlier.
This at least is a thoroughly human, purposive ghost, but the phan­
tom taxi-cab takes even more swallowing than a real, rattling, oil-
and petrol-fed automobile would require.
§ 6. If then, a motor vehicle can have a ghost, so can a piece of
chemical apparatus, hence the oft-repeated tale of the Tower of
London will bear retelling. The incident occurred in the residence
of a Mr. E. L. Swifte, keeper of the Crown Jewels from 1814 to 1852.
It was " written up " by him, and published in Notes and Queries
for i860. Late one Saturday night in October, 1817, the keeper,
his wife, their son, and Mrs. Swifte's sister were seated at supper;
the doors were fast closed, the windows heavily curtained; two
tall wax candles illuminated the scene. Midnight had just struck.
Mrs. Swifte was about to take a sip of wine when she cried, “ Good
God 1 What is that ? " Mr. Swifte, looking up, saw, hovering
'twixt table and ceiling, a large glass tube about as thick as his
arm. This tube contained a viscous liquid, part of which was light
blue and part white. The colours mixed and separated several
times, then the giant test-tube moved slowly over, and halting above
104
Ghosts Ghosts
Mrs. Swifte's shoulder caused her to shout, “ Oh, Christ 1 it has
seized me ! " Like a good stolid Victorian, Mr. Swifte rose to the
occasion. Picking up his chair he swung it round his head and
aimed a “ terrific blow " which passed through the ghostly test-
tube and came to rest on the wall. However, it had the desired
effect, for the “ thing " vanished. Young Swifte and Mrs. Swifte’s
sister saw nothing from first to last.
§ 7. There are many notorious ghosts in the Tower of London,
and also on Tower Hill. Anne Boleyn walks the hill, as well as
frequenting the Tower Chapel. A certain Captain of the Guard,
seeing lights shining from the windows, and inquiring of the sentry,
learned that it often happened at or about midnight. Ordering a
ladder to be brought, the officer mounted, and, peeping in, saw a
procession led by Anne Boleyn, all “ strangely illuminated." Some­
one (or something) somewhere switched off the psychic light, and
all disappeared.
§ 8. The dim grey Norman pile which has protected London for
a thousand years is surely entitled to as many ghosts as it has
housed tragedies ; but it seems hardly “ nice " for Cromwell, Ireton,
and Bradshaw to parade in their broad-brimmed hats and swaying
cloaks, around Red Lion Square—that little patch of dusty greenery
shadowed in by rather dingy old houses—even if their disinterred
remains (at the time of the Restoration) rested for one night at
that Red Lion Inn which formerly occupied part of the site. Never­
theless, the shades of the Protector and his peers were seen there
frequently during the late war. In Bloomsbury, the living as well
as the dead have been involved in cases of haunting, one of the
best authenticated instances of which is connected with the British
Museum Reading Room. On Thursday, 12 April 1888, Dr. W. W.
Westcott made an appointment to meet the Rev. T. W. Lemon
there the following morning. Friday the 13th (a sinister-sounding
day !) found Dr. Westcott confined to his bed with what would
now be called 'flu, but then was given the dignified appellation
“ feverish catarrh." However securely the doctor was tucked up,
his soul went marching on, for he was seen in the Reading Room
by several people. The man at the cloak-room observed him go
in ; one of his intimates saw him take his accustomed seat— and
so it went on. But still, that “ feverish catarrh " had his body,
and the British Museum had it not ; hence it must have been his
soul that came to keep the appointment !—though it is notable that
the Rev. Lemon with whom the engagement had been made did
not see Dr. Westcott (but then, of course, the former was not an
habitué of the Reading Room, consequently he had not become
accustomed to seeing his friend there at regular hours). Neither is
that the only haunting in the British Museum : nervous old ladies
not infrequently inform the attendant in the Mummy Room that
one or another of the exhibits has “ turned its head and stared "
at them I
, 9. After such a disturbing experience the ladies might conceiv-
iy go to Hyde Park to recover—but even there they are far from
S.O. 105 H
Ghosts Ghosts
safe, for on the walk between Marble Arch and Lancaster Gate
stands " the Devil's Elm " beneath which no tramp will sleep—
because it means death. Even respectable people who have fallen
into a doze there during summer afternoons have complained of
nightmare 1 Another tree, which had a branch exactly like a human
arm and hand, was, so story has it, cut down because persons sleep­
ing under it were found dead. All trees afford shelter for spirits,
but fortunately for mankind not all tree-spirits are malignant.
Oriental legend abounds in stories of persons who, after sleeping
soundly beneath haunted banyans, have arisen refreshed, and sub­
sequently performed all manner of wonders.
§ 10. Where Marble Arch is now, the gallows-tree of Tyburn once
stood, and that might account for 11the Devil's Elm," and also for
the haunted horse-bus which once ran from the endof Edgware Road
to Notting Hill Gate. The possibility of transport being connected
with ghosts makes the title, " The Moving Staircase," all the more
arresting. One springs avidly at the story, expecting it to be con­
cerning a " Thing " on the escalator at Piccadilly, but the collection
of stories in which it appears, entitled Haunted Houses of London,
by Elliott O'Donnell, was published in 1909 when escalators, if
thought of, were not in vogue. This staircase of Mr. O'Donnell's
was of " the broad oaken " variety. It led from a spacious hall to
a gallery joining the east and west wings of a "large, quaint old
house " bordering Wandsworth Common. The narrative is recounted
by a certain Mr. Scaran, who had the misfortune to rent the house
on a three years' lease. On taking the place over, he and his wife
were both " struck " by the staircase; it was not quite central,
and there were evident signs of its having been so at one time. Soon
after they moved in, the staircase began its nonsense one midnight,
creaking and groaning as though many folk ascended and descended.
"The next night," Mr. Scaran continues, through the medium of
Mr. O'Donnell, " I happened to be out till rather late " (which is
significant /), "and on my return found the hall in darkness, my
wife and family having gone to bed. I struck a light and, walking
to the staircase, candle in hand, began to mount." At the sixth
step " there was a rush of ice-cold wind " and the staircase dis­
appeared, leaving Mr, Scaran on the hall floor, in a position that
proved he had been climbing the now non-existent flight, which had
once occupied the central position ! If the affair had ended at that,
one might take the lateness of the hour into consideration and say
no more about it, but his daughter Joan, ascending the stairs a day
or so later (the material ones this time), had a tray snatched from
her hand; and her brother Dick, " an athletic young fellow in the,
sixth form at Dulwich," was himself pushed right over the banisters
bv a phantom young lady. As though that were not sufficient,
Molly, " our youngest," saw the stairs slowly but surely shift them­
selves along the hall and become central I Then, as though annoyed
at being caught in the act, " it slowly shot towards me, gliding
noiselessly over the ground like some horrible, black-clad inquisi­
torial machine." (A fine literary style, that, for Molly, the young-
Ghosts Ghosts
est. On account of her youth she must be forgiven the “ slowly
shot991)
§ n . Anyway, that staircase chased her all over the place ; “ its
polished balustrades shining with ten-thousand times their accus-
tomary lustre, reflected dozens of strange, distorted faces—faces I
seemed to have seen long, long ago, maybe in a previous lifetime."
Mr. Scaran and his family, like true Britons, refused to be scared
away by a mad staircase, and nothing more occurred till nephew
Will, " a sailor, second officer on an Anglo-Japanese liner," came to
stay. Will ought to have been first officer if his ability to pitch a
yam is any criterion of his seamanship. He stayed up late one
night to finish writing a lecture he was to deliver before the Geo­
graphical Society, and, more accustomed to handling the tiller than
the quill, he grew sleepy and steered a course that according to dead
reckonings and the stars should have brought him snug into the
harbour of bed ; but alas, Will ran foul of many persons descending
the staircase—almost had his timbers shivered on ladies* fans and
gentlemen's sword-hilts. Will grew cold with the coldness that
could be smelt (like the silence that can be felt). " Suddenly from
the direction of the Common came the faint but unmistakable sounds
of a horse's hoofs . . . " That horse and rider passed in through
the bolted door, halted in the hall a moment, then the gallant animal,
spurred on, leapt up the staircase—and came the clash of swords I
Will was drenched by two lots of blood—one lot hot, one lot cold.
After that, the horse lost its footing and fell, rolling down the stair­
case. The rattle of fire-arms—frantic shrieks—and then (all this
being enacted on the central phantom staircase) the whole collection
dematerialized, and Will descended with a run from the main-top-
gallants, landing on the deck with a thud that took the wind out
of his sails. Still Mr. Scaran refused to move out, but at last " the
climax . . . was reached one afternoon about twilight, when my
wife . . . suddenly found herself in a crowd of phantom men . . .
who, not content with kissing and otherwise insulting her, jostled
and hustled her to such an extent that she fainted. . . . That
settled it ; I came to an agreement with my landlord . . . " All
that remains is to add that Mr. Elliott O'Donnell, in a preface to
the volume, states that all the contents have “ been selected expressly
on account of their authenticity."
§ 12. That veritable Black Bess leaping up the moving staircase,
reminds us that animals can both see, and be ghosts. Mr. O'Donnell
has produced an entire volume of them—all authentic; but the
following story is not one of his. A lady had brought up from birth
two Yorkshire terriers. Though both belonged to the same litter
there was a vast difference between them, for, whilst Pluto was,
and always had been strong and vigorous—spoiling for a fight with
anything on four legs—Juno was a weakling. However, Pluto was
a chivalrous fellow; no dog took liberties with poor little Juno if
Pluto was about; but if Juno did not feel like finishing his dinner
on the spot, Pluto considered the remainder his perquisite, and
would not allow the original owner to recommence, no matter how
107
G h osts G h osts
many pathetic attempts it made; always the stronger dog gave a
warning growl, albeit not an angry one, hurried forward and stood
on guard. Juno died some years ago, but occasionally Pluto gives
that little warning note, and runs to the plate—for now he is old
and has lost a tooth or two, and sometimes leaves his own dinner.
The lady who owns the animal is convinced that Pluto sees Juno's
ghost. An indulgent psychologist made some attempt to explain
" conditioned reflex": how the sight of food on a plate arouses
memory, etc., but the lady will have none of it—she is sure it is
Juno's ghost. The foregoing pales somewhat before Mr. O'Donnell's
headless cat of Seely Road, Manchester, though it quite holds its
own beside the numerous letters to the press from persons whose
" little girl age five," of course " a very bright child," and who
" was ailing nothing at the time," sees cats strolling round the house
when no cat is there. Cats seen by young children usually have the
faculty of walking, tail erect, behind a piece of furniture that is
close against the wall. They seem like silhouettes of cats—if it
were not that they are of the fourth dimension one would conclude
that they were of a two-, instead of a three-dimensional nature.
However, when children of tender years “ see things," be it " pussies "
or just " things "—when they suffer from pavor nocturnus and rouse
the entire neighbourhood with their nightly shrieks—it is a matter
for the psycho-therapeutist or the endocrinologist, or possibly both.
The “ cats " or " thmgs " can be dissolved from the little sufferer's
sight by a bottle of medicine or its modem hypodermic equivalent,
or possibly only a correction of diet. It is nothing to write to the
papers about—any more than mumps is.
§ 13. Bordering on the realms of curability, too, is the poltergeist1
type of haunting. Suddenly, for no apparent purpose, a poltergeist
(or racketing spirit) gets into a house, with the result that all the
crockery is thrown from the kitchen dresser by an invisible hand.
The fire-irons leap through the window; lumps of coal leave the
cellar, get somehow to the top of the house and then drop over the
banisters. Pictures fall down, and even heavy pieces of furniture
begin to chase the inmates about the house. This typical set of
manifestations can be reckoned a very hoary nine days' wonder
—and still is for journalists and other meddlesome folk who do not
help to clear up the mystery; but so far as science has had oppor­
tunity to investigate, these occurrences have revealed the necessary
presence of an " agent," generally an adolescent girl, sometimes a
boy in that stage of development, andoccasionally a mentally puerile
adult. Many poltergeist cases have been proved “ hysterical fraud."
They are useful in so far as they indicate the possibilities of hysteria
manifesting itself in other, more “ serious " instances of haunting.
The poltergeist display is very definitely material—as material as
the crockery, the coals, the fire-irons, and the furniture; so it is
just as well to keep out of the way. Immaterial ghostly phenomena
are decidedly more comfortable. A good old Irish family boasting
its banshee may have in her a messenger presaging death; but that
1 Cf. Spiritualism, Part II, {§ 48-52.
108
“ G olden Bough *•
Ghost-seers
is tolerable in comparison with brickbats. Of course, the young
and beautiful banshee who, loving the family, comes and sings so
sweet and solemn a tune that the sufferer welcomes the approach
of death, is more satisfactory than the old and ugly one who, hating
the family, gives her warning in the form of a shnek of hellish glee,
or a satanic chuckle of grim mirth. Yet horrible as this is, she is
at least the property of the family to whom she is attached (no
matter how altered in status it has become, or how far it has wan­
dered from its native soil), and her sudden presence, though dreaded,
is a phenomenon to be expected; whilst, on the other hand, the
poltergeist is a heedless vagrant, popping up where it chooses, and
creating havoc how it chooses—to the utter dismay of innocent folk.
§ 14. The ghosts, like the poor, are always with us. The rattling
heart of the metropolis cannot dispel Cromwell and his fellows from
Red Lion Square, where they parade in full view of the vulgar, so
how much less likely are the spectres to leave the dim recesses of
deep alcoves in country houses ? If the " luck of the line ” depends
upon an unburied skeleton being kept in the best bedroom, there
the bones must abide, lest the offended spirit sends woe instead of
male offspring.
J- F.
Book recommended:
Harper, C. G., Haunted Houses (Cecil Palmer, 1927). [Illustrated by the
author.]
Ghost-seers. A superstition that
persons bom during specified
hours will grow up with the
faculty of seeing ghosts.
Ghost Ship. See Flying Dutch­
man.
Gifford, Geo. See Literature of |
Occultism, § 17.
G illes de Laval. See Alchemy,
§ 33 ; and Black Magic, § 9.
Glimmerschiefer. See Alchemy,
§ 52, near end.
Glossolalia. SeePsycho-therapy
and Psychic Phenomena, § 13.
Glotz, Professor. See History
of Occult Ideas, § 61.
Gnome. Underground spirit,
guardian of buried treasure.
Gnosticism. See History of Oc­
cult Ideas, § 50.
Gipsy Cards. See White Magic,
§ 4.
Glanvill, Joseph. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 17.
G lastonbury Scripts. A set of
nine papers concerning the
Abbey, supposed to have been
received by automatic writing.
109
Goblins. See Fairies, § 15.
God’s Ape. See Devil-worship,
§ 9.
Gogol. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 18.
!Golden Bough,” the. See
Literature of Occultism, § 17.
" G olden T ractate Hafaza
“ Golden T ractate, T he.” See Great T rick, the. Gulliblepeas-
Alchemy, §22.
Goldfish (sacred). See Chinese
Occultism, § 12.
Goldsmith, M. L. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 31.
Goligher, Miss K. See Spirit­
ualism, Part II, §§ 19, 23-7.
Gong. Used in China, (1) for
frightening away evil spirits;
(2) for driving off the “ celestial
dog ” who is devouring the
moon during an eclipse.
Goodyer, John. See Mandrake,
§i-
Goraknath. See History of Oc­
cult Ideas, § 50.
Gordon, Henry. See Spiritual­
ism , Part I, § 20.
Gothic Romance, the. See Eng­
lish Literature and the Occult,
§§ 16-17.
ants are persuaded to hand a
bag of money to a gipsy, who
incants over it, and then buries
it, with the assurance that it
will become magically doubled
in a few days. When the eager
peasant digs it up he finds the
coin changed into metal buttons
— quite magic enough !
Greece, Occultism in Ancient.
See Occultism in Ancient Greece
and R om e; also History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 57-72.
Green [colour], early ideas con­
cerning. See History O
j
Grimoire. A text-book of Black
Magic.
Ground-manikin. See Fairies,
§n-
Group Hypnosis. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 21-2.
Graham, James. See Psycho-ther- Gula. SeeHistory ofOccult Ideas,
apy and Psychic Phenomena,§ 9. § 34-
Grand Arcanum. See Alchemy, G uppy, Mrs. See Spiritualism,
§ 19. Part I, § 36.
Grand Ceremony, the. See H is- Guru. See Buddhist Occultism,
tory of Occult Ideas, § 52. § 9-
G rayson, General. See Doyle, Gyoki. See Buddhist Occultism,
Sir A . Conan. § 13-
Great Agent, the. See Alchemy, Gyromancy. Divinationby walk-
§ 19. ing in a circle.
Great Balance, the. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 25-8. H
Great M other, cult of. See Hafaza. See Moslem Occultism,
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 8-10. § 7.
ITO
Haggard Hbpatoscopy
Haggard, Rider. See English spirits. Founded on the idea
Literature and the Occult, § 20. of seven planets.
Hale, Mrs. See Witchcraft, § 22. Hegel. See Alchemy, § 41, end.
Hallucination.
Hallucination.
Halomancy. Divination by salt.
Ham. Nordic storm-fiend in the
form of a black eagle.
Hamadryads. See Fairies, § 17.
Hand of Glory. See Black
Magic, § 19.
Hardy. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 9, end.
Hare, the. See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 14.
Hare, Robert. See Spiritualism,
Part I, § 18.
Haruspicy. Divination by sacri­
ficial appearances. Also, Arus-
picy.
Harut and Marut. See Moslem
Occultism, § 9.
Hator. See History of Occult |
Ideas, §§ 12, 14, 15, 31, 59.
Hawthorne. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, §§ 17, 20.
T
O
R
T
U
R
E
S O
F
.
(1) Lying on a board full of
nails—for those who buy large
quantities of rice, etc., in anti­
cipation of a rise in the mar­
ket : (2) Cutting out the tongue
—for those who scrape gold-
leaf off idols : (3) Flaying—for
those who steal, deface, or tear
books [a system that might
beneficially be introduced into
this country I] : (4) Cutting in
halves—for those who disre­
spect the gods : (5) Kneeling
on iron filings—for thieves : (6)
Impalement—for those who
raise funds for charity and
keep the money, also for those
who overcharge for books : (7)
Gnawing by dogs and pigs—for
those who cause enmity be­
tween relations : (8) Pecking
by birds—for those who kill
harmless creatures : (9) Boiling
inoil—for thosewhorobgraves.
There are also other forms of
torture for other forms of evil
behaviour.
See Buddhist Occultism,
Chinese Occultism, etc.
Helmont, J. B. van. See A l­
chemy, § 42 ; and Literature of
Occultism, § 20.
See Illusion and Hell (Buddhist),
Hayden, Mrs. See Spiritualism, Helvetius, John Frederick. See
Part I § 2 4 Alchemy, § 43 ; and Literature
' 8 * of Occultism, § 21.
Healing T ouch. See Psycho- 1
therapy and Psychic Phenomena, Henry, O. See English Literature
§ 7. and the Occult, § 18.
Hebdomad. A group of seven Hbpatoscopy. See History of Oc-
superhuman beings—angels or cult Ideas, § 42.
h i
H erbert H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
H erbert, C V. C. See Spiritual• H ie r o m a n c y . Divination by the
ism, Part II, §17. entrails ofanimals. Also,Hiero-
scopy.
H ermes. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 70 ; and Mandrake, § 7. H if z . Set Moslem Occultism, § 15.
H ermes T rism egbtus (or -gistu s).
See Alchemy, § 22.
H esse- C assbl, C harles, o f. See
Alchemy, § 81.
H eurodis, Q ueen. See Fairies,
§6.
H e y w o o d . See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 13.
H il l M e n . See Fairies, § 16.
H in a y a n a . See Buddhist Occult­
ism, § 4.
H in d u ism . See History of Occult
Ideas, § 46 ; and Indian Occult­
ism .
His P u p il .” See Scott, Cyril.
HISTORY OF OCCULT IDEAS
Hunger, Birth, Death
§ 1. The history of occultism may rightly be regarded as the
history of humanity studied from the point of view of man's behaviour
in relation to the vast unknown and of his heroic endeavours to
influence the titanic forces controlling, or seeming to control, his
destiny—the powers holding the reins of life and death.
§ 2. Of the men who inhabited the earth during the early part
of the Old Stone Age, insufficient trace is left for us to even con­
jecture at their spiritual achievement, but in the latter part of this
long period of developmental history—in the subsection known as
the Aurignacian stage of culture—men took up their abode in the
awe-inspiring caves of southern France and Spain, where they left
indisputable evidence of their psychic awareness. The evidence
takes the form of mural engraving and painting in the dark inner
recesses of the caverns. Had these works of art been intended as
purely decorative devices they would surely have been placed where
daylight made them visible to all comers. The fact of their being
hidden, as it were, suggests a “ holy of holies," something sacred
and fraught with awful power, something that must not be belittled
or “ taken in vain." The pictures represent animals of two kinds,
namely, those which were habitually hunted and killed for food,
and those wild, carnivorous beasts which were themselves the hunters,
killers and devourers of men. The cult expressed in this prehistoric
art seems to have been a psychic endeavour to gain control of the
external world: to lure, by magic, the food-animals to fall a prey
to pitfalls and arrows, and the fierce animals to remain at a safe
distance, competing with the hunter if needs be, but not devouring
him. Not only in this nutritional cult did the cave-dweller display
his tendency towards occultism; he demonstrated ideas of post­
mortem survival in his burial customs. The dead were interred,
H ist o r y of O c c u l t I deas H isto r y of O c c u l t I deas
usually in a crouching position, surrounded with red earth and often
decorated with necklaces consisting of animals, teeth, shells, and
E
ieces of stone. In some instances, where more than one burial
ad taken place at the same time, the bodies were orientated, that
is, placed so that they all faced in the same direction. The shells
and teeth were not thrown into the grave in a haphazard manner,
but were placed with deliberate intent so as to form something of
a pattern.
§ 3. This care of, and mystical provision for the welfare of the
dead, indicates not only a belief in individual survival but also an
expectation of reincarnation. To make this dear, the mural cave
paintings and the funerary rites of the period must be considered
as a joint manifestation of ideas concerning the supernatural. Pro­
fessor Sir G. Elliot Smith has pointed out that in some of the paint­
ings animals are depicted with wounds indicated in the region of
the heart, and in others they are represented with the heart showing.
This proves that these early men recognized the importance of that
organ and the blood-stream in the continuance of life, and also
suggests that the most common cause of death was injury, probably
from a beast whilst hunting, hence, death being apparently due to
loss of blood, death itself meant bloodlessness. Because of the loss
of vital red fluid, red earth was placed about the body in the grave,
thereby providing compensation by a process of contagious magic.
§ 4. Among the drawings are to be found representations of the
human female form; but whilst the animals are depicted with a
firm line and a meticulous attention to detail, and are in this respect
superior to much so styled “ modem ” art, the human figures are
without faces and grotesquely misshapen, with gross exaggeration
of female functional parts. Obviously, then, on the evidence of the
morphological perfection of the zoological subjects, the cave-man
could, had he so desired, have drawn correct anatomy, if not cor­
rect perspective when representing the human figure. The fact of
his doing otherwise indicates that these particular works were highly
symbolic, and not intended in any way to be portraits.
§ 5. Here again is an occult motive. Not only death, but also
birth is a subject for awesome speculation, for it is very unlikely
that prehistoric man had even the vaguest inkling of his own func­
tion in the phenomenon of reproduction, just as to-day many primi­
tive people (for instance, the Australian Blacks and the Trobriand
Islanders) are unaware of it. The female was regarded as the source
of life, hence in the cave paintings the maternal parts are emphasized.
Birth and death, the two terminal mysteries of human existence,
obtruded themselves forcibly upon our early ancestors, as subjects
for occult speculation, yet they were not regarded as opposites—
on the contrary, a bond of union must have presented itself in some
obscure and certainly crude form of reasoning. The before-birth
and the after-death suggested the same state of being, though the
circle as an abstraction could not have been understood. Perhaps
in the alternation of night and day, and in the recurrence of the
seasons, an analogy suggestive of man's own rebirth was drawn;
H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
but be that as it may, the terminal mysteries most certainly were
connected in the prehistoric ideology, for cowrie shells were used as
symbols of birth due to their likeness on the ventral ride, to the
portal through which men enter this world. These shells were also
buried with the dead. This belief in reincarnation, to-day made
the credo of modem “ religion," must have antedated belief in
continued existence in another, extra-terrestrial, sphere or state, for
this latter view involves a power of abstraction which prehistoric
man could hardly have possessed.
5 6. The cowrie shell is the earliest and most potent object of
power. The great value man set upon it, as a result of his faith
in its magical properties, is demonstrated by the fact of shells found
in the burial sites in the south of France, having been brought there
from the Indian Ocean—no mean feat of transport for primitive
men to accomplish without the aid of pockets, to accommodate the
shells and prevent inconvenience to the carrier.
§ 7. Although first among the artifacts of occultism, the cowrie
shell does not stand alone. The teeth and claws of wild animals
vie with it in antiquity, if not in importance. Prehistoric man wore
them about his neck that they might protect him from all harm
just as they protected the animal. Dr. W. J. Perry, in The Origin
of Magic and Religion, says (p. 9) : “ The early men of the cave­
dwelling age chose their givers of life from the fundamental facts
of life and death as they knew them. . . . Likewise, the idea that
what protected wild animals could be made to protect men was,
in a way, logical. . . . From these simple beginnings a vast rami­
fication issued. Considering the nature of the *drive ’ that forced
him on, it is not surprising to find that early man soon added fresh
objects and substances to his battery of life givers." Dr. Perry
continues by explaining that all red substances became surrogates
for blood—all shells became possessed of life-bestowing powers:
and even to-day the cowrie-shell and the teeth of wild animals are
used as amulets. The former may occasionally be seen offered for
sale in “ curio " shops as a " lucky wedding shell" ; and one of
the tetter, mounted in gold and appended to the watch-chain of a
menagerie worker, is considered by him to be fraught with sufficient
magic to keep his charges well behaved.
The Mother Cult
§ 8. The Aurignacian artists were not only painters and engravers
but sculptors. Again, in their plastic work they carved animals in
a manner which arouses our admiration, yet represented the human
female form most grotesquely. Professor M. Boule, describing such
a “ Venus," says: " The statuette, o*n metre (4J in.) in height,
was carved from a piece of limestone, and its surface retained some
traces of red painting. It represented a nude woman of massive
proportions with enormous breasts, protruding belly, and full thighs.
The head is covered by a mop of hair, represented by concentric
lines, and re-divided by markings at right angles to these primary
lines. This coiffure almost completely conceals the face, no part of
114
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H isto r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
which is even indicated. The arms, which are extremely slender
and are ornamented by bracelets, are folded over the chest. The
thighs and legs are thick, short, and fat, and the genital region is
distinctly portrayed."
§ 9. This is sufficient evidence of early man's supreme preoccupa­
tion with the birth mystery to cause students to look for a con­
nection between the “ Venuses ” and the sacred shell. These
Aurignacian sculptures do not actually bear a definite shell char­
acter, but similar figurines of a rather later cultural phase are most
definitely built up by adding arms, legs, trunk and head to a cowrie
shell. This means either that the magico-religious conception of the
Great Mother as the source of all good (and later of all evil as well!)
resulted in the representation of the exaggerated woman to which
the shell image was subsequently added, or, that the Aurignacian
artist had not yet developed a technique that enabled him to com­
bine in one figure both absolute symbolism and absolute realism.
In other words, the first artists may have meant their feminine
grotesques to express the shell-woman, but lacking in the power of
abstraction necessary to the concrete expression of the inspiration,
could pass on only the urge to create the form, and not the finished
work.
§ 10. Ideas normally precede actions, hence it is reasonable to
suppose that prehistoric man conceived of the protective power of
the Great Mother, before he attempted to carve her as an amulet.
Just as the physical earthly mother, having brought a child into
the world, is impelled to feed, protect and care for it, so the abstrac­
tion, the Great Mother, could be expected to tend her devotees:
not only avert famine, and bring the hunter safely home on earth,
but also carry him through the unknowable 'twixt death and re­
birth. In this way our cave-dwelling ancestors demonstrated
spirituality, for the Mother-Goddess Cult, material though its ends
might have been, did not consist of the worship of material things
— on the contrary, it was a form of occultism as far removed from
belief in the power of mortal man, and as convinced of the immor­
tality of his soul, as any modern religion. The cult may possibly
have possessed its shrines and secrets, its services and priests, its
initiates and inner mysteries, but it must certainly have contained
the essential occult germ of ultimate truth, for the cave man's faith
in, and dependence upon the higher power of the Mother Goddess
survived through the early civilizations, and fundamentally is not
yet extinguished in our own era.
§ n . In spite of the fantastic theorizing both in talk and in writing
(and, which is more, in print) about the lost continents of Lemuria
and Atlantis,1 which land masses, if theyever did exist, sank beneath
the sea long before man was evolved, the recognized authorities
agree that the first civilization came into being in the Valley of the
Nile, and here, through Egypt's long and great history we find
occultism taking a leading place in social and political life. Of the
earliest period, due to the continual silting of the Delta, little is
1 See also Atlantis.
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
known, but those pre-dynastic graves which have yielded their con­
tents to us, reveal only higher and more complicated forms of
Palaeolithic burial customs. In theBritish Museum (Mummy Room)
we have a pre-dynastic burial, complete in a sand-pit. This exhibit
is interesting, apart from the fact of the flesh being desiccated and
preserved like leather about the skeleton, in so much that the
deceased was buried in the crouched position, and surrounded in
his grave by domestic utensils. This suggests that, with the passage
of time, ideas concerning the post-mortem journey had changed:
it was no longer a single stride through the dark from death to re­
birth, but a more involved journey necessitating the convenience
of cooking-pots, that the soul's travels might be eased by " earthly ''
comforts. The pre-dynastic graves, besides cooking-pots, occasion­
ally yield images of the Mother Goddess, who, in her material
representation, remained static; for these finds are very similar to
the Aurignacian “ Venuses.” However, as ideas concerning the
post-mortem journey changed, those regarding the destination kept
abreast. Very soon figurines of the Great Mother took a more
typically Egyptian form. Complication was added to complication
of earthly life ; occult ideas advanced, and the Mother Cult developed
to an extent that often seems to divorce it from the fundamental
primary conception of protective motherhood.
The Divine Cow
§ 12. Occult ideas, seldom clearly defined, are always inclined to
both overlap and blend until they ultimately result in a conglomerate
mass of manifest magico-religious practice, representing deeper
strivings. This tendency showed itself early in the history of
occultism, the Nutritional Cult and the Great-Mother Cult becoming
inextricably merged. Part of the Goddess's function as a giver of
life and a protector of men, was to feed her little ones ; and as the
most striking characteristic of physical motherhood is the secretion
of milk to nourish the offspring, this instinct came to be regarded
as a divine attribute. With the domestication of animals which
came about early in Egyptian history, the cow was identified with
the goddess, and the animal was regarded as an incarnation of the
deity; the deity in art was henceforth depicted with cow's head
and horns, in which guise she was named Hator. Later, other
givers of life in the form of material food were added to the con­
ception of the occult giver of life, the Great Mother, and we learn
of cults of the Corn Mother, the Maize Mother, and so on. Her
nutritional function made her the goddess of all homed beasts,
whilst her protective function set her on high among all fanged and
clawed beasts. Because the process of birth can be analogized to
the act of passing through a gate, the Mother Goddess soon came
to be regarded as the Guardian of the Portal, or Keeper of the City
Gates. No one dared to enter or leave without performing a pro­
pitiatory rite; and the idea took further root and grew to embellish
the funeraiy rites—the passing out of life.
§ 13. Biological functions were now beginning to be understood
116
H is t o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas
vaguely, and the uterus was recognized as an organ associated with
birth. It was the distension and ultimate contraction of this organ
that caused the gates of life to open. Mankind, endeavouring always
to control the actual by the application of the metaphorical, evolved
the magic wand as an object of power. Always buttressing the
metaphorical with the analogy of the actual, mankind, when the
masculine function in reproduction became understood, gave a
phallic significance to the magic wand, and to-day, this symbol of
power is carried by kings in the form of the sceptre.
§ 14. Hator, the Divine Cow, the Great Mother, the Giver of Life,
soon acquired numerous other characteristics: she became, besides
the Guardian of the Gates, the Helper in Childbirth, that is, the
Goddess of Midwives. With the rise of industry she became “ The
Builder " and “ The Carpenter of Mankind/' " The Lady Potter,"
and last but by no means least, " The Moon." An early Egyptian
drawing represents the elevation of the cow to the sky, the moon
appearing between her horns, and the stars in a line along her belly.
The Lunar Cult
§ 15. Woman's menstrual periodicity had influenced the identifi­
cation of Hator with the moon, and throughout the history of all
early civilizations, we find similar occult ideas concerning the noc­
turnal luminary. All goddesses are moon goddesses. Diana, the
Huntress, the Goddess of Hunting (Roman), is also Diana of the
moon, whilst Artemis (and the Ephesian Artemis, the multi-breasted)
is the Greek prototype of Diana. All occultism fundamentally aims
at securing man's physical well-being here on earth and his spiritual
comfort beyond the grave. In early times, any new feat of industry,
any new invention, and any fresh system of living that was beneficial
to man was considered the gift of the Great Mother, and it in turn
must be dedicated to her. The inspiration to create pottery was a
gift from the Mother, and the manufactured pots must be made a
gift to her. The goddess became the Mother of Pots, and pots were
regarded as woman. Woman in turn was considered as a pot which
contained the embryo— the jar from which life issued.
§ 16. The details of ritual connected with the worship of the
Moon Mother in Egypt involved sacrificial rites and were connected
in some way with the science of agriculture by irrigation and with
the inauguration of the Lunar Calendar. Thus, in his search for
the intangible, man invented the first science. In attempting to
influence the uncontrollable, he took control of his food supplies. The
Great Mother, sofaithfully servedfromthe Aurignacianperiod'onward,
had not neglected her children, for with this mastery of' mother
earth, man, to a certain extent, also became captain of his destiny.
With an abundant food-supply assured him by the bounty of the
Great Mother, his hands were freed from continual serfdom to the
soil. With leisure, he was at liberty to cultivate his mind and his
arts and crafts, to pay attention in greater detail to the inner man,
and provide for his soul's welfare. The tendency of occult ideas to
fuse mto a homogeneous whole showed itself once more where colour
117
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
was concerned. Red, for blood, had always been considered the
life-giving hue, now green came into prominence.
§ 17. The Great Mother, functioning as the Corn Mother, gave the
cereal to men, through the beneficent waters of the Nile. These
waters, which were themselves deified and considered as givers of
life, flooded the parched land every year with a pale green inunda­
tion, which, subsiding, gave rise to the young green com, hence,
green became a giver of life. Translated into the occult sphere
green, the hue itself, and all green things must have life-giving and
preserving powers. Malachite, an indigenous green mineral (copper
ore), was used in powder form to colour the face and so protect
the wearer. Further searchings for control of the occult resulted
in the reduction of malachite and the discovery of metallic copper,
and so ended the Stone Age.
§ 18. Aurignacian, and probably pre-Aurignacian, man had saved
himself from extinction chiefly by his tendency to occult striving.
Feeling in the dark for the vast powers to propitiate for his pro­
tection, he not only gave himself the courage that comes from
faith, but also developed the turn of mind that later, in early Egypt,
enabled him to discover, if not the Elixir of Life, at least ways of
practically preserving life, and laying the foundations of civilization
as it exists to-day. The cultural history of humanity reveals on
every page that political and economic affairs, important as they
may be, are but superficial in comparison with the deep heart-
hunger man feels for the occult: and every phase of cultural
development in Egypt and among contemporary peoples is attri­
butable to some psychic urge that resulted in a utilitarian applica­
tion. Egyptian State affairs prospered exceedingly, and collaterally,
Egyptian occult ideas became diversified, complicated, highly ritual­
istic, and matters for contemporaneous specialization. The class
system developed, rulers and priests stood in close relation to the
gods, serving them, whilst the people looked to the initiated ones
to intercede for them. Religion had become abstracted into the
realms of morality ; post-mortem continued existence was no longer
earthly; there were ideas concerning a sky-world for ruler and an
under-world for the people.
§ 19. The Lunar Cult was replaced by the Solar Cult. The Moon
Mother waned before the dazzling brilliance of the Great God Ra.
The rule of woman ended and the rule of man began.
The Solar Cult
§ 20. As the moon lived in the sky, part of man's service to the
Moon Mother had been to observe the firmament, to note its ever-
changing aspects, and divine, if possible, the wishes and intentions
of the deity. This devotion had resulted in the foundation of a
practical if crude and elementary Astronomy. The Sothic calendar,
based on the star Sirius, had been devised very early, in fact it may
possibly antedate the inauguration of the Solar calendar with which
it coincides very closely in matters of calculation; but Sirius had
insufficient virtue in heaven and too little influence on earth (influence
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas
represented by the powerful high priests of Heliopolis) to merit
the distinction of chief deity over upper and lower Egypt.
§ 21* The priests of Egypt were also the magicians, and the records
we have in the Bible and elsewhere of their abilities are truly start­
ling. Much of their activity, however, must have been simply
super-prestidigitation, and much more due to the possession of
hypnotic powers; nevertheless their influence was second only to
that of the king himself, who was supreme on account of combining
in his person all the divinity of the Great God Ra, the Sun, whose
son upon earth he became by a process of occult reasoning invented
by the priests. According to Dr. W. J. Perry (op. cit., pp. 37-8) :
“ The God of Heliopolis, Ra, was evidently a product of speculation,
for he bears no sign of having been, like Osiris, a King. He was
bom on New Year's Day, the day of the Nile Flood: he was born
out of the primeval ocean, which may mean the flood of the Nile;
he came out of an egg made by Khnum, the potter god; he was
lifted on the back of Nut, in the form of the Great Cow, one of the
forms of the Great Mother, to the Sky, where he is bom of her every
day. Thus he was pieced together from elements of thoughts already
existing in Egypt, and in no way seems to be historical as was
Osiris."
§ 22. Osiris was an earlier god; but because the theological
system was changing, it was necessary to tack the older mythology
on to the new, so we find that the king upon earth was an incarna­
tion of Horus, the Hawk God, who, passing into the sky-world,
became one with Osiris, who was identified with Ra.
§ 23. The Egyptians worshipped an anthropomorphic set of deities,
individual members of which represented not only material but
abstract things. Speculation, forged from fear of the unknown,
had combined with reasoned observation, and produced a mesh of
civilization which resulted in the building of the Pyramids, the
perfection of the process of mummification, and the elaboration of
numerous arts and sciences. The king and the priest, in the per­
formance of an ornate ritual, needed objects and substances of
foreign origin; and for the overt purpose of procuring these, pros­
pecting parties sallied forth and so carried the germs of civilization
with them. The track of these early voyagers is stamped upon
the face of the earth, right through Oceania to Central America,
and, wherever megalithic monuments, which not infrequently take
the form of stone circles (similar to our own Stonehenge) are to be
found, the natives have a mythology wherein the gods and spirits
seem to be based on men of flesh and blood who came " out of the
sea." Occultism was the driving force behind the voyagers—
civilization was their gift to the aborigines. Throughout the his­
tory of humanity occultism has been the attraction behind material
benefits. The megalithic monuments, including Stonehenge, were
obviously erected as Sun Temples, and though we may see the
fallacy of worshipping a burning sphere, the chemical composition
of which we know to a nicety, we must take into consideration that
this extra-terrestrial idea was a tremendous advance. To quote
119
H isto r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
Dr. Perry again : “ Between the times when the Great Mother was
the sole being who could be regarded as a deity, and the times when
the King of Egypt was an incarnate deity, the Son of the Sun God,
there exists a great contrast. Thought had gone a long way to the
development of ideas that are purely religious, ideas that, if their
history were not known fairly well, would suggest an inward faculty
of man for the elaboration of purely religious beliefs directly from
the contemplation of Nature. When we follow in the footsteps of
the priests of Heliopolis, we have planted our feet firmly on the
path that leads to the great monotheistic religions of antiquity, all
of which seem to derive their inspiration from the speculations of
these remarkable men. The religious beliefs of the Kings of the
18th Dynasty of Egypt, of Zoroaster of Persia, of the Brahmins of
India, and last, but not least, of the prophets of Israel, bear witness
to this current of thought. Man's ideas, by the elaboration of the
Sun Cult, were turned from the Earth to the Heavens, where he
was henceforth to look for the Great Creator and Preserver of the
Universe. But man had to build a scaffolding of thought to enable
him to reach the skies! he did not leap there, even in thought, at
one bound."
The Book of the Dead
§ 24. This collection of illuminated papyrus may be compared to
the Bible in so much as it is the Egyptian Holy Writ, containing
in the form of allegory, poetry and prayer, the index to the entire
ethical, religious and moral codes. It is not the work of one scribe,
or priest, neither is it the production of one place or period. All
Egypt is depicted in it, and all Egypt's history is reflected. Legend,
myth and ritual, occult practice and religious belief, the names and
portraits of the gods, kings, and great men, all are there. The
object of the Book was to secure for the deceased the power to
ingratiate himself with the gods and so enjoy everlasting life in the
Other World.
§ 25. The famous Papyrus of Ani depicts the scene in the Hall
of Judgment. Beneath the company of the gods comprising Sa,
Hu, Hator, Horus, Isis and Nephthys, Nut, Seb, Tefnut, Shu, Temu,
and Ra-Hormachis, who sit in judgment, we see Ani and his wife
Thuthu entering the Hall. Inside, some spiritual analysis takes
place. Renenet and Meskhenet, the Goddesses of Birth, stand side
by side watching the proceedings, whilst above their heads Ani's
soul, in the form of a bird, crouches. Near it is Ani's Ka (his
embryo or placenta). Beneath this sphinx-like image stands Ani's
Luck or Destiny, in the form of a man. All are intent on watching
the scales wherein Ani's heart is being weighed against the feather
of Maat, emblematical of Right and Truth. Anubis, the Jackal­
headed God, is in charge of operations, and bent upon one knee
he narrowly scrutinizes the tongue of the balance. Behind Anubis,
the crocodile-headed monster named Am-mit, the devourer of the
unjustified, waits for the heart of the deceased, for it is his if found
light and wanting. Close to the monster stands Thoth, the scribe
120
H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas H isto r y of O c c u lt Ideas
of the gods, who is noting on his writing-palette, with a long reed
pen, the result of this weighing. The twelve deities receive the
report of their scribe, Thoth; and then Ani, accompanied by his
heart and his soul, his Ka and his Destiny, together with the two
Birth Goddesses, passes on in the care of Horns.
§ 26. During the enactment of this drama, Ani prays to Osiris
that he may not fail in the test. " . . . And may no lies be spoken
against me in the presence of the God. . . ." Thoth says : “ Hear
ye this judgment. . . . his [heart] hath stood as a witness for him ;
it hath been found true by trial in the great Balance. . . ." The
Gods reply: “ That which cometh forth from thy mouth shall be
declared true. . . . The scribe Ani [is] victorious . . . holy and
righteous. . . . Entrance into the presence of the God Osiris shall
be granted unto him, together with a homestead for ever. . . ."
§ 27. Now Horns leads Ani the Justified into the presence of the
God. We see Ani kneeling with his right hand raised in adoration
before Osiris, who sits enthroned withm a shrine built in the form
of a funeral chest. Before him, standing upon a lotus flower, are
“ the children of Homs," the gods of the cardinal points of the
compass. Behind him stand Nephthys, his sister; and Isis, his
sister and wife.
§ 28. The foregoing is but one section of the Great Book. “ The
details of the Judgment Scene vary considerably in the papyri of
different periods, and it seems as if every . . . artist felt himself
free to follow out his own ideas of its Treatment. First, as regards
the Great Balance. The beam is always exactly horizontal, a fact
which proves that the Egyptian was only asked to make his heart
or conscience just to counterbalance the feather of Maat. The
pillar of the Balance is at times surmounted by the Ape of Thoth,
at others by the head of Maat, and at others by the head of Anubis
. . .", says Sir E. A. Wallis Budge; but vary as it may in detail
in its essentials it is always the same, and from the numerous " chap­
ters," as they are called, springs much of the inspiration of our
modem monotheistic faiths. For instance, the lotus flower on which
the “ children of Homs " stand, is sometimes shown growing out of
water, which, in the Papyrus of Hu-nefer, forms a lake whereon
the throne of Osiris is placed. “ This lake was fed by the Celestial
Nile, or by one of its branches, and was the source whence the
beautiful, as well as the gods, drank. This scene is of considerable
interest from the point of view of comparative mythology, for many
Semitic writers held the opinion that the throne of the deity was
placed, or rested upon, a stream of water, or a river. Even in the
Book of Revelation we have a reference to a *pure river of water,
clear as crystal, proceeding out of the Throne of God' " (Sir E. A.
Wallis Budge).
Under the title, “ The Book of the Dead," we include “ The Book
of the Gates," and “ The Book of the Coming Forth by Day," which,
as the names imply, reveal the essentially non-pessimistic character
of the Egyptian religion. The entire Song Cycle, if such it might
be called, tends to identify mortal man with the Immortal Divinity,
S.O. tot i
H ist o r y of O c c u l t I deas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
for, as a secondary motif running through the whole, is allusion after
allusion to the soul's triumph and to its absolute conquest of death.
Man and the Holy Ape God sing hymns to Ra at sunrise; man
and the Jackal and Hawk Gods sing hymns in praise of Ra at sun­
set. Ra himself, in the form of the Great Cat, cuts off the head
of Apep, the Snake God of Darkness and Evil.
§ 29. Every culture-trend in the history of Egypt based upon
this religion of Hope and Triumph, savoured of permanence, of
deathlessness. The mummies have remained intact, the Pyramids
have stood secure for five thousand years, and there seems little
reason why these monuments to man's occult belief in the immor­
tality of his soul should not last as long as the planet itself.
§ 30. Not the false pride of despotic rulers, but the supreme faith
in occult revelation, was the motive force that set the monuments
of Egypt stone on stone. Contemporary with Egypt, the great
civilizations of Elam and Sumer, Assyria and Babylon, were built
up, also upon a foundation of occultism; but whereas Egypt's
artifacts were constructed to last, because of an assured faith in
futurity, the Mesopotamian remains are less perfect. The Egyptian's
conceptions were universal and eternal, the Sumerian's limited to
the mental compass of the City-State and the local god ; yet it was
as a revolt from the religious life of Ur of the Chaldees that Abram
made his journey into the wilderness and established his " Great
Nation . . . in which all families shall be blessed."
Lord of the Earth
§ 31. The archaic civilization of Asia Minor was, like that of
Egypt, based on agriculture by irrigation ; but unlike that of Egypt,
the social and religious system was not unified and permanent. In
seeking for Sumerian origins we find, as might be expected, that
much of the occult thought was founded upon Mother-Goddess-
worship. She appears always as the owner of the City, and the
territory belonging to the City; the people were but the tenants
of the divine landlord, and paid their rent in kind to the keeper
of the Temple. One of the earliest religious monuments brought to
light in the area, is the shrine of Nin Kharsag, recently unearthed
at Ur. This is decorated with scenes depicting pastoral life, a cattle-
shed and oxen standing near by. Here again we see a Mother-
Goddess Cult closely linked up with domestication of animals; but
whatever the occult ideology may have been concerning this con­
nection, the people seem never to have developed a conception of
bovine divinity compatible with Hator, the Divine Cow.
§32. Sumerian governmental authority was theocratic in char­
acter. The king was regarded as the incarnation of the deity, and
in consequence of his superhuman nature, his commands were abso­
lute. This enabled the complicated system of waterways to be
kept in order, a feat man could not have accomplished unaided by
divine injunction, for peasant, agricultural people have a tendency
to isolate themselves farm by farm, each family's interest remaining
centred about the hearthstone. Joint enterprise, involving the wel-
122
H is t o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
fare of entire communities, is not, to man, the business of man.
The deity alone provides for all, and service rendered to the god is,
as it were, a thank-offering for his provision, or an act of propitia­
tion to avert his wrath. In passing, it is interesting to note that
in this m otif is to be sought the key to the fundamental insecurity
of the modem Russian social order.
§ 33. The Sumerian System of City States, each self-contained and
apart, renders it very difficult to piece together even the material
history of the region, much less to form a very concise picture of
the occult ideas possessed by the people ; but it seems fairly certain
that Enlil, the Lord of the Earth, who resided at Nippur, was in
the position of a chief god, though the City of Nippur had no extra­
territorial political influence.
§ 34. According to Christopher Dawson {The Age o f the Gods),
“ Every city possessed its patron god and goddess, who were con­
ceived respectively as the King and Mother of the territory. The
goddesses were, in fact, all forms of the Mother Goddess, and their
titles and attributes are not always easy to distinguish from one
another. Thus, Gula, the Goddess of Life who was worshipped at
Larak and Isin, is hardly distinguishable from Bau, the patroness
of Lagash and Kish. The Gods, on the other hand, possess clearly
defined characters, and the different provinces of the land are par­
titioned among them in a most systematic way. Thus Eridu on
the Persian Gulf, and originally Lagash also, belonged to Ea or
Enki, the Water God and patron of Civilization, and his son
Ningirshu, the God of Irrigation. Ur and Larsa were dedicated
respectively to the Moon and the Sun.” The walls, gates and streets
were named with a holy nomenclature, such as ” Marduk is the
Shepherd of the Land ” ; thus the very close religious life led by
the inhabitants may be deduced. The occult life of the City States
seems to have been personified in the figure of the king—the Lord
of the Earth—whose divine right made him supreme. As a god he
was of course immortal—death was only a passing on—and he was
buried with pomp befitting his state. With him were interred his
chariots and soldiers, slaves for his service, and goblets of gold and
silver, filled with delicate food—for, in the after-world he still ruled
supreme over his subjects, the shades as well as those on earth,
where he was represented by his son, who was henceforth regarded
as the re-embodiment of his sire.
Abram, Son of Terah
§ 35. One of the most important revolutions in occult thought
occurred about four thousand years ago, in the City of Ur, of the
Chaldees. The twelfth chapter of Genesis tells us that ” . . . the
Lord had said unto Abram, get thee out of thy country, . . . and
from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee. And
I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make
thy name great, . . . and in thee shall all families of the earth be
blessed.” But there is no description of the form this instruction
took (modem science might declare it an auditory hallucination):
123
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
one would expect the injunction to issue from the lips of the cor-
¥
oreal representative of Enlil, or Enid, or Ea. Turning to the
almud we learn that the young Abram " from his earliest child­
hood was a lover of the Lord. God had granted him a wise heart
ready to comprehend and understand the majesty of the Eternal,
and able to despise the vanity of idolatry/' Terah, Abram's father,
was a high official of the Court, and it is probable that Abram grew
tired of the continual procession of pomp attending the daily life
of the divine monarch. Further, Talmudic lore informs us that
ever seeking comfort for his soul he turned first to Sun-worship,
and finding that not to his taste, took up thè older cult of Lunar-
worship ; but “ . . . when the morning dawned and the stars paled,
and the moon faded into silvery whiteness and was lost m the
returning glory of the sun, Abram knew God and said, ‘ There
is a higher power, a Supreme Being and these luminaries are but
the servants, the work of his hands.' From that day even unto
the day of his death, Abram knew the Lord and walked in his
ways."
§ 36. In Abram we have the typical seer, the thinker, who,
advancing one step further along occult lines, leads the way for
all of mankind. His spiritual revolution took the form of divorcing
thought from materialism. Abram's conception of God was no
longer the personification of an aspect of nature or of an unknown
something that lived in a tree or a stone. Not the sun and not the
moon, nor any carnate being, but an abstract power that created
and controlled the universe. Among its early ritualistic practice
the new religion retained the ancient custom of circumcision, the
origin of which is lost in antiquity. It is presumable that it was
basically a form of blood sacrifice to the Great Mother, and the
operation is to-day performed as an initiation ceremony, not only
by the seed of Abram, but by numerous other people throughout
the world.
§ 37. Abram's God, being an abstraction, was not liable to defeat
in battle, as was the divine king of any of the Sumerian City States.
For this reason, the new faith might have been expected to spread
rapidly, but the fact remains that it was confined to Abram's imme­
diate family. It would have been difficult for men to abandon the
old idolatry, even had the new faith appealed to them, for the entire
social system was bound up in the local deity. Abram himself was
forced to become a nomad, a dweller in tents, and a raiser of flocks
and herds. All the building that we hear of having taken place
was confined to the construction of altars for the sacrifice of beasts
to Jehovah.
§ 38. From this intellectual and spiritual revolt, and from these
crude beginnings, the modem monotheistic faith of Western civiliza­
tion, and incidentally, of Islam, has been built up. In its earliest
form it was the religion of only one family, strictly moral, and
unwaveringly just : right must be done for right's sake. We know
nothing of Abram's ideas relating to the immortality of the soul ;
post-mortem rewards and punishments, and the conception of heaven
124
H is t o r y of O c c u l t Ideas H isto r y of O c c u l t Ideas
and hell as eternal abodes of respectively the good and the evil
doers, were later accretions.
Ishtar and Tammuz
§ 39. Although the City States were self-contained, and isolated
one from another, there seems to have been what might be described
as a key-myth permeating the religious thought and shared by all.
This is the fecundity myth which tinctures the occult ideas of people
throughout the world, and which in Sumer was expressed in the
story of Ishtar and Tammuz.
§ 40. According to Sir James Frazer, men attempted to account
for natural phenomena, by occult explanations and in speculating
upon the annual change of the seasons," They pictured to themselves
the growth and decay of vegetation, the birth and death of living
creatures, as effects of the waxing and waning strength of divine
beings, of Gods and Goddesses, who were bom and died, who married
and begot children on the pattern of human life."
§ 41. The name Tammuz means " True son of the deep water.”
In the myth he is represented as the youthful lover of Ishtar, the
Great Mother Goddess, who is the mystic cause of all fecundity,
and the reproductive powers of nature. Every year the onset of
Autumn betokens that the young and beautiful god is dying, and that
Ishtar is weeping for him, and about to follow " to the land from
whence there is no returning, to the house of darkness, where dust
lies on door and bolt.” With the departure of the goddess, love
ceases to operate on earth, men and beasts alike fail to reproduce
their kind and vegetation fades away. Such a calamity causes so
loud a lamentation that the God Ea sends a messenger to the gloomy
under-world. Allatu, the stern and forbidding queen of the dark
place, is reluctant to permit Tammuz and Ishtar to return, but at
last they are sprinkled with the water of life, and depart from the
pit, bestowing once again upon nature the gift of fecundity. Spring
has returned. This reawakening of the earth and the revival of
nature is an event sufficiently impressive to strike a note of optimism
and belief in continued existence into the heart of the least imagina­
tive of mankind; and it is the currency of this myth among the
Sumerians that points to their occult belief in a resurrection. We
find the same Nature-Cult translated into the primitive religious
idiom of all agricultural people : the Egyptian Osiris may be equated
to Tammuz, and the Greek Adonis is a name formed from a mis­
interpretation of the Semitic word " Adonai ” which literally means
4
4My Lord.”
Divination and Astrology
§ 42. As practical and material benefits have always accrued from
occult speculation, it is a matter for no surprise that " exact ” science
is partly the outcome of Magical Practice. The Babylonians, though
far inferior to the Egyptians in calendariai calculation, nevertheless
paid great attention to the heavens, and it is to them we owe the
invention of the Zodiac, and the naming of the days of the week.
125
H isto r y of O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
Their aim was not scientific in the modem sense, but purely occult:
their motive was not to establish a practical time-partition ; it was
to compliment the gods, and, as a reward, receive the gift of prophecy.
They discovered the five planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and
Saturn, and, adding to these the sun and moon, arrived at what,
to them, was the very satisfactory total—seven. This was satis­
factory because seven was regarded as a powerful, or lucky number,
luring them to the belief that they were on the track of the solution
of infinite mysteries. Their observations were sufficiently exact to
enable them to predict an eclipse, though not being possessed of the
type of intellect that would permit them to comprehend the mechan­
ism of the phenomenon, they assumed that their prophecies were
whispered to them by the gods, into whose confidence they had
been admitted. This led them to conclude that the will of the gods
towards mortals, singly, and en masse could be discovered by stellar
observation. Their method of naming the seven days of the week
after the seven " stars ” suggested that the heavenly bodies each
possessed or controlled its own particular day. This idea became
developed by the inclusion of mathematics, which at the period was
considered a magical art. Certain numbers, deemed to possess mystic
virtue, were equated to letters of the cuneiform alphabet. Then
stars, figures and letters were contorted till they conformed to a set
of semi-geometrical rules: and the entire heterogeneous mixture
was presented as the “ Science ” of prophecy by Astrology. Not
only by the stars did these early seekers hope to foretell the decisions
of the gods, and their intentions towards men. Hepatoscopy, or
divination by observing the markings on the livers of animals offered
in sacrifice to the deity, was also practised. The details of this art
are known very accurately from the fact of clay models of the liver
having been found ; on these models the rules were written. Observa­
tion carried out on the entrails of beasts, for the purpose of occultly
aiding man, was the means by which he acquired the basic knowledge
underlying genuine medicine and surgery, and thereby received a
great material benefit; yet so slow is the human mind to cast off
the layers of fantastic belief, that even to-day in Europe, side by side
with the most efficient hospitals, we find people practising folk-
medicine. And though the spectroscope has analysed the stars,
and planetary geography is accurately charted, prophecy by astro­
logical means is committed blatantly, receives credulity, and the
prophet his fee.
§ 43. This ability for science and superstition to exist side by side
is to be seen in its extreme in India, where “ We find fully qualified
and even learned . . . doctors practising Greek medicine as well as
Englishmedicine, [and] astronomerswho can predict eclipses, and yet
who believe the eclipses are caused by a dragon swallowing the Sun
. . .” (Times Weekly Edition, Correspondence, 24 May 1907).
Kali, the Black One1
§ 44. Old ways, even in mundane matters like commercial enter-
1See also Indian Occultism,
126
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
prise, die hard in the East; and in modern India, despite the material
blessings of railways and motor-cars, occultism of the earliest kind
is part and parcel of everyday life. Not only the primitive in­
habitants of the jungle villages, but the European-educated dwellers
in the cities believe in the Great Mother Goddess. The most usual
form that she takes is that of Kali, the Black One, who is regarded
both as the protective and the destructive element in the world-idea.
Kali in Indian art is generally portrayed as a grotesque, befanged
female, clutching to her breast the skulls of the slain, and, dripping
with gore, dancing upon the body of her dead husband, Mahakala,
who is also Siva. The worship of the gloomy goddess involves blood,
and sacrifice of beasts; even the slaughter of human beings in her
honour is not unknown. There are recent cases brought before the
courts, which the hard-headed European governing body insists upon
calling by the ugly name—murder; but not always is the supreme
sacrifice demanded. For instance, Anna Kauri, one manifestation
of the Great Mother, whose special function is to “ increase a man's
crops and make him rich," demands only half the right index finger,
and this her devotees gladly give. Nevertheless, Kali is “ The
Mother of the World and the Shelter of the Shelterless." She has
her benevolent moods, and reminds us very forcibly of the Aurignacian
conception of the Great Mother with her decorative motif of fangs
and claws. Each Indian village, more particularly in the south of
the Peninsula, has its own local Mother Goddess, and these are
venerated as Disease Mothers. The people propitiate the goddess
to ensure good health, but at the same time she must bestow her
blessings on crops and cattle. This basic occult belief pervades all
forms of religion in India, and no doubt the tenacity of so extremely
primitive a cult prevented Buddhism, the gentlest of religions, from
striking deep roots there, though it is the land of its birth.
§ 45. Hinduism is a comparatively modem religion in India. It
was brought there by the Aryan-speaking people from the North,
and overlaid the earlier, Dravidian religion which, with its repulsive
and obscene rites, persists, and disturbs the placid stream of Hindu­
ism, fed with the sacred writings, the Vedas. The adhesion, generally
in secret, to this Demonological Dravidian Cult of Kali, results in a
welter of occultism, out of which the fakir emerges—often totally
ignorant of the Occidental wisdom, yet wise with the “ wisdom of
the East," which baffles the most astute and unemotional European
observers.
§46. The Hindu godhead is a trinity or triad personifying the
continuous working of the Absolute Spirit. The members are
Brahma, Visnu, and Siva; respectively representing Creation,
Preservation, and Destruction ; but Siva, although of the male sex,
is also a manifestation of the Great Mother, and signifies the repro­
ductive power of Nature. The keynote of the Hindu religion is
reincarnation, and, though caste is rigid here on earth, a sufficient
number of rebirths can at last elevate even the humblest. The
Hindu does not believe in the forgiveness of sins, but he does believe
in Karma, that is, " Retribution," or more precisely Karmavipaka,
127
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas H is t o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
" the maturing of deeds." This belief is calculated to exercise a
moralizing and restraining influence, for the result of sin may be a
slowing down of the reincarnation process, so that literally thousands
of years will be wasted. An ascetic earthly existence, on the other
hand, considerably short-circuits the journey, hence the fakirs
practise asceticism and concentration, to ensure a speedier reunion
with the Supreme Being.
Yoga
§ 47. The Hindu believes that mortal man is, like the godhead,
a triad, and is composed of his earthly, material body with its
appetites and passions; an intangible soul, which is part of the
divine essence ; and as an intermediary between these two, a gross
soul or subtle body, which partakes of the nature of both the soul
and the body. Its soul-kinship is to be found in its essentially
non-material nature and its immortality; its body-kinship comes
about from its tendency to take pleasure in earthly affairs. This
semi-soul is called the sukshma-sarira; it is “ pure " at birth but
acquires sensual appetites during its sojourn here below. Re­
incarnation for the soul proper is a painful and unpleasant experience ;
the sukshma-sarira, however, remembers its good time on earth and
clamours for rebirth.
§ 48. It follows that if a man lives an ascetic life, denies his
appetites and mortifies his flesh, then the semi-soul cannot become
contaminated and carnal, hence death will, for the ascetic, mean
reunion with the godhead. Further, complete and successful con­
centration upon the divine nature, will give to the ascetic, during
earthly life, part of the power possessed by the all-soul, and enable
him to work miracles. The accomplishment of this, the supreme
object of Hindu religious aspiration, involves the cultivation of
apathy towards human affections and desires, and the detachment
of the mind from earthly thoughts.
§ 49. The yogis endeavour mightily in this laudable pursuit and
command such admiration that the system is spreading through
Europe and America, where it is regarded as the highest expression
of transcendentalism. Yoga consists of rules laid down by the
Mahatmas or Masters. The results obtained by the Yogis (however
they are accomplished) are most spectacular. For instance, in 1895
The Civil and Military Gazette, a reliable Indian newspaper, reported
the case of a wandering yogi who, before the eyes of the inhabitants
of an entire village, built a pyre and burned himself to death. No
extraordinary feat perhaps. But two days later he appeared in
the same place, alive, without a hair of his head even singed!
These magicians possess all the qualifications of those who practise
as spirit mediums in our own country: they can deliver, to complete
strangers, messages from their dead relations; move things at a
distance without touching them (telekinesis); hear voices (clair-
audience); see visions (clairvoyance); and, which is more, perform
the “ rope trick " and “ mango trick," neither of which has been
successfully engineered by Europeans.
H is t o r y o f O c c u l t Id eas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t Ideas
§ 50. The foundation of the Yoga sect is attributed to one,
Mahandranath, though the fame of Goraknath, a disciple, has
eclipsed that of the master. These are both regarded more or less
as legendary figures, for the latter is identified with Siva, and Siva,
too, is deemed the first Yogi. Patanjali, the sage, is also reputed to
have originated the sect. Professor Weber, in Indian Literature
(p. 239), says of Yoga: " The most flourishing epoch . . . belongs
most probably to the first centuries of our era, [and] the influence
it exercised on the development of Gnosticism . . . [is] unmistak­
able." Because of the sublime nature of Yogism, its practice is
not confined to hereditary groups. Members of all castes may
become initiates, and no doubt highly virtuous people are attracted
to i t ; but in spite of that it cannot be denied that the modem
yogi is apt to dissolve into a travelling arch-conjurer, who, possessed
of contortionistic abilities suggestive of bonelessness, and stupendous
hypnotic powers, trades on the credulity of the pious masses. The
Kabbalah, the Hebrew book of occult practice, contains much that
suggests the Yoga system, and the Kabbalah itself must be founded
upon the occult practice of the Sumerian magicians, who in turn
were influenced by the great miracle-working priests of Heliopolis.
Bon Pa 1
§ 51. From the secret Hindu practice of sacrifice to Kali, we pass
over the Himalayas to Tibet, where devil-worship and sanguinary
rites are by no means hidden. The overt purpose of the Bon Cult
is to protect the living from the earth- and sky-demons, and from
ill-intentioned spirits. As in all demonological cults, the formula
consists very largely of current local "white ” cults inverted, thus
the Bon priests repeat Buddhist prayers backwards, and so defeat
the goblins that the prayers of the lamas, the priests of the new
religion, bring into being.
§ 52. The origin of Bon Pa is unknown, but there is much in its
practice, such, for instance, as the Grand Ceremony, which takes
place every three years in the middle of the night, that points to its
lunar bias ; and the details of their sacrificial rites suggest an almost
direct inheritance from the Aurignacian cave period’s blind strivings
into the unknown.
§ 53. Buddhism was introduced into Tibet about the 6th century
a.d., but even among the people who profess it, the original Bon
Cult still has a great influence: charms and amulets are avidly
sought, and crumbs dropped from a Lama’s repast are considered
to possess sufficient virtue to cause evil spirits to scatter in all
directions. Prayer-flags are set up to flutter picturesquely in each
nook and comer where a demon might lurk; and every man, woman
and child is alert for omens and portents. There is scarcely a more
religious nation than the Tibetans, for at all hours of the day and
night they repeat their prayers, warning the demons of the Bon to
keep away, and assuring them of rapid and severe punishment at
the hands of Buddha's saints : in short, everyone in Tibet is engaged
1See Buddhist Occultism.
129
H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas H ist o r y of O c c u l t Ideas
in occult practice at all hours ; and whilst the Lamas repeat the
mystic six-syllabled spell, the Bons reverse the order of the sounds,
and consequently both sects feel safe.
Kuei Shen 1
§ 54. The Chinaman, no less than the Tibetan, spends an anxious
life closely surrounded by Kuei Shen, that is, demons and spirits,
which may become spiteful if not constantly appeased. Certain
authorities, supported by the evidence of the pictographic script,
claim for China monotheistic ideas antedating 2250 b.c. (the approxi­
mate date of the Babylonian-type pyramids, the remains of which
represent an archaic civilized settlement on the Yellow River) ;
nevertheless, about 2852 b.c., the Chinese were offering “ firstfruits "
to the spirits of departed ancestors, and ancestor-worship is certainly
the most popular form of occultism practised in China. The Chinese
dead journey to the “ dark world," where they live exactly the
same kind of life as they have experienced in the “ bright world."
Emperors are still emperors, and peasants are still peasants. It is
only the recently departed, however, that continue to take interest
in earthly affairs ; therefore, the Chinaman's sacrifices and prayers
are addressed to his father and grandfather, or to the last emperor.
Confucius rescued China from internal strife, by travelling from
State to State, and preaching to the warring sects that the country
as a whole was the chief ancestor, therefore civil war was a sin.
Peace resulted from the philosopher's travels, and high treason was
placed beside parricide as an unforgivable transgression. One who
would offend in either of these, is cut up very small, and the pieces
widely separated. The reason for this is to prevent the ghost of
each piece from finding his fellows and joining up in a whole ghost,
which would doubtless commit high treason or parricide in the
“ dark world." This shadowy realm is inhabited not only by spirits
of ancestors, but also by the doubles of rocks, trees, stones, rivers,
and the elements ; a whole race of goblins, and, which is even worse,
malevolent forces, quite impersonal, which move in straight lines
and need to be diverted. This can be done by placing on the roof
of the house, earthenware lions, and sacred stones from the Thai
mountain.
§ 55. The Chinaman's séance, though identical in theory, differs
from our own inpractice. His method of getting into communication
with the dead, is to hang up a portrait before which sacrifices are
offered. Besides the portrait, a wooden model of the tombstone is
employed, to act as a “ throne " upon which the ancestral spirit
shall seat itself during the ceremony. In early times, at least 2000b.c.,
it was usual for a living person to dress up in the clothes of the
departed ; and expensive offerings were made, young white bulls,
goats, pigs, dogs, and, by the poorer classes, fowls ; but in modern
times, paper substitutes are burned—even imitation money is cut
out from tinfoil and fixed to sheets of inflammable material. It is
questionable whether the frugality of this modem method indicates
1See Chinese Occultism,
130
H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
a spiritual advance or a decadence in the Chinese, for though the
classic writings continually insist upon the inner significance of the
ritual, they also declare that the ghosts " enjoy " the material
offering.
§ 56. Sacrifice is not the only means employed to gauge the
attitude of the ancestral spirits. Divination is also practised to that
end, and we have records of its employment as far back as 2255 b.c.,
at which period a tortoise-shell was most frequently used. The
carapace was smeared with thick ink and dried over a brazier ; then,
in the resultant lines and curves that formed in the caked residue,
the diviner read the will of the departed. More recently a form of
planchette has been the most favoured method; but no matter
how the technique may change, the fundamental occult belief remains
static, and even the most Europeanized Chinaman does not consider
himself foolish for believing in the purposive visits of the departed
souls of his ancestors.
The Double A xe
§ 57. Returning now to that veritable cradle, or rather, that womb
of culture, the eastern Mediterranean, we shall follow out a complex
of ideas that beginning in the Island of Crete gave rise to the Classical
Greek Mythology, upon which the Roman cults were largely built,
and from which much of our modem Western civilization has
sprung.
§ 58. Legend tells us that every nine years the citizens of Athens
were forced to pay tribute, in the form of a bevy of beautiful youths
and maidens, to be sacrificed to the Bull Monster, the Minotaur,
that dwelt in the labyrinth at Knossus. Actually, Athenian fear
rather perverted the facts. The youths and maidens were trained
to leap and turn somersaults over the head and back of no monster,
but an ordinary bull, wild it is true; and the only occasions on
which they were " sacrificed " were entirely accidental—when they
missed their jump and fell victim to the animal's horns. This sport,
or entertainment, was enacted to delight the great King Mmos,
“ familiar friend of the most high God," and his courtiers at the
Great Palace of Knossus—“ the Palace of the Double Axe," so
triumphantly restored by Sir Arthur Evans. According to this
authority, " The intimate connection of Minoan Crete with the Nile
Valley, which goes back to pre-dynastic times, has been demonstrated
by such a long series of discoveries, extending from the Southern
Plains of Mesara to the site of Knossus, that any criticism which
excludes the probable reaction of Egyptian elements on the Early
Cretan Religion stands to-day self-condemned " (The Early Religion
o f Greece in the Light of Cretan Discoveries).
5 59. " On the other hand," says Christopher Dawson, in The Age
of the Gods, " the Asiatic affinities of the Aegean Culture are no less
strongly marked. The Asiatic worship of the Mother Goddess and
her youthful companion is characteristic of Cretan religion from the
earliest times, and the symbols of their cult, especially The Double
Axe, are Sumerian rather than Egyptian in origin." The earliest
131
H ist o r y of O c c u l t I deas H ist o r y o f O c c u l t I deas
occult ideas in Crete, then, centred round the figure of the Mother
Goddess, who is represented there, sometimes accompanied by doves,
and at other times by snakes, but always with a double axe, that is,
an axe with blades facing in opposite directions. This double axe,
or labrys, is the most frequent symbol used to denote power. Its
evolution is probably to be found in the combination of the magic
wand, and the figure-of-eight-shaped body-shield, also a favourite
design-motif of the period. The shield is a development of the
feminine symbol. A pair of horns, usually termed “ horns of
consecration/* are often shown, either drawn realistically or used in
a “ conventionalized '* form in design. These horns may be either
bull's horns, symbols of masculinity and force, or cow's horns, in
which case it is legitimate to equate them to the horns of Hator, the
Divine Cow.
§ 60. The Cretan Mother Goddess is a Goddess of Childbirth and
is represented with arrows in her hand. These symbolize birth-
pangs. She is also an earth-goddess, and to indicate this serpents
are shown twined about her. As a sky-goddess she is surrounded
by doves ; but she is not by any means the only divinity figuring
in occult thought of the period. Social and political organization
was cast in the Sumerian mould. Minos, if not an incarnate deity,
was at least the “ son " or “ familiar friend " of the god, and his
palace was also the centre of religious life. Every stone of the
building is marked with the sacred double axe, and when a motif
is so prevalent and pronounced it must, in the occult ideology of
the people, be possessed of immense virtue.
§ 61. Professor G. Glotz says (Mgean Civilization, p. 233): " Affinity
with the bull is the dominant idea of the double axe. The Minotaur
is the sacred animal par excellence. The weapon by which his blood
is shed and his horns vanquished takes his warlike strength and his
procreative vigour and transmits them to men. Thus the idea
attached to it is essentially that of male force." However, the
previous point of view concerning the feminine symbolism of the
labrys is not inadmissible.
§ 62. The Cretans were not an agricultural people, but were
among the first maritime traders, therefore we find occult ideas
attaching themselves to the octopus and the dolphin, though little
is known at present of the sea-ideas, which undoubtedly must have
been rich and varied. The notions concerning an after-life were
highly developed. Not only household goods but food and drink
were buried with the dead, and the viands were renewed from time
to time. With the sailor would be interred a model boat, and with
the musician a lyre; these were fashioned either in ivory or clay,
according to the wealth of the family. Children were supplied with
feeding-bottle and toy horses, and everybody was provided with a
model of the sacred double axe.
§ 63. There seems to be more Egyptian than Sumerian influence
in these funerary customs, for the rulers were laid to rest with a gold
face-mask that fixes their likeness for all time, reminding one of
permanence in Egyptian mummification. The spiritual life of the
132
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
people appears to have been freer from State control and more
personal than in Sumer.
S<54* Cretan supremacy in the JEgean ends about 1420 b.c., when
a vast catastrophe overwhelmed the Island. The beautiful Palace of
the Double Axe at Knossus was burned to the ground, and the entire
culture appears to have perished. The double axe, redoubled,
survives in the Maltese Cross, but the details of the cult are lost
for ever unless the Cretan script, when deciphered, provides us with
information.
Philosophers
§ 65. The centre of cultural activities now passes to mainland
Greece, where the Olympians, those picturesque, anthropomorphic
deities, had taken so firm a hold of the heavens that the inhabitants
of the Greek City States, having no need to ask, ” Who made the
universe? ” , found themselves facedwith the problem,” What made
the universe ? ” ; and no longer “ Who made me ? ” but, ” Of what
am I made ? ”
§ 66. These inquiries, apparently leading away from occultism
into materialism, remain unanswered to-day, and the strivings that
were started by the philosophers have led through physics back to
metaphysics. The earth, air, fire and water “ elements ” of the
ancients became analysed and reanalysed into the chemical elements,
but the physicist, still seeking for something more elemental than
matter, bisected and bisected, till at last he found that the atom,
that ultimate particle which cannot be divided, is but a tension in
space and not a substance.
§ 67. Mathematics and geometry expanded till Euclid's straight
line—“ the shortest distance between two points ”—resolved itself
into " a sector of the circumference of a circle of infinitely great
radius ” ; his “ point ” which had " position but not magnitude,”
became ” a circle of infinitely small radius ” ; and Space and Time
in Einstein's immortal hands reveal a composite, four-dimensional
whole. Theoretically, it is possible to see inside solids and be in
two places at once. More than that the occultist does not claim.
Absolute and exact science has gone up in smoke, and a non-material
smoke into the bargain. In the words of Sir A. S. Eddington, " We
have found a strange footprint on the shores of the unknown. We
have devised profound theories, one after another, to account for
its origin. At last, we have succeeded in reconstructing the creature
that made the footprint. And lo !it is our own.” Except our power
of perception, there is little we may be at all sure of. Earth, air,
fire, water ; solid, liquid, gas ; electricity, space and time, or whatso­
ever, is all one ; matter is no more material; universal concepts are
no more heliocentric; life, death, and immortality, are indivisible.
The Aurignacian cave-dweller, spreading his red earth about the
body of a departed comrade, was as dose to the mystery as we are
ourselves. Thereis no deathbecause there isnolife: amoment of per­
ception is this illusion of material existence ; but our perceptionisnot
thewhole of perception, andprobablynot the only type of perception.
133
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
5 68. The Greek philosophers asking not “ who ? " but " what ?"
led man into an intellectual labyrinth from which there was no
returning. He advanced slowly, step by step, always in trepidation
lest he met the Minotaur; and, instead, he found himself suddenly
confronted with the fact that he was simply the protagonist in a
sport whereof he was also the audience. We lost our soul to gain
not even the whole world, but only a new mathematics which reduces
Euclid's problems down to the dimensions of the child's school-slate,
leaving a residue of fact fast going out of currency.
Oracles
§69. Classic Greece, however, was not all intellect and art, not
all materialism and loose living. Superstition had its place, and
the oracles, their clients. The former were by no means priests,
but merely traders, dealers in divination. The popular method was
to foretell events by watching the flight of birds. The eagle was the
most general omen bird, and occult belief had it that the king of the
air was sent forth by the gods, Zeus, Apollo, or Athene. No great
skill and no special initiation was needed for the qualification of
oracular interpretation. The professional oracle read the alleged
signs with more facility than the layman, but that was all. Their
greatest income was probably derived from expounding dreams, for
all men dream, and most are troubled thereby. The modem “ Penny
Dream-book" contains nothing that the oracles of ancient Greece
did not know and speak for a fee.
§ 70. The Cult of Hermes was developed from oracular practice.
It was customary for the inquirer to whisper his question into the
ear of the effigy of the god, then, stopping his own ears, proceed
from the shrine to the town, and in the market-place removing the
auditory obstruction, listen to the conversation of passers-by and be
guided by the first words that could be reasonably applied to the
case.
§ 71. Sneezing was regarded as an omen, and, should the act
follow a statement, it was considered confirmatory. " He has
sneezed, therefore he has spoken the truth." Occult ideas attached
to sneezing still linger, and it is by no means uncommon to hear
the words " Bless you 1" follow a sneeze. In southern Europe it is
taken quite seriously.
§ 72. Necromancy was also employed by the oracles, who per­
formed all the unpleasant rites of black magic to call up the spirits.
This practice is based on the Cult of the Great Mother, for it is
generally performed by night, and much depends on the phases of
the moon.
“ She o f the Seven H ills ”
§ 73. Our knowledge of the beliefs in the early days of Rome is
somewhat hazy, there being, prior to the Empire, neither literature
nor works of art to any extent. There was a great deal of Etruscan
influence, but the Etruscans are people concerning whose occult
ideas we know very little owing to the fact of their script not yet
134
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
being deciphered. For the rest, Roman beginnings owe much to
Greece, the story of Romulus and Remus is of Greek origin.
§ 74. Our first authentic record is the Fasti, a religious calendar
dating from the year 304 b.c. Its compilation is attributed to the
Priest-King Numa ; and it unmistakably bears the mark of being a
religio-political document. All religious life right through the
History of Rome had a State significance. Many of the festivals
were connected with agriculture and may be equated to Cults of the
Great Mother. For instance, on 15 April, the date of the celebration
of the Fordicidia festival, pregnant cows were slaughtered, and the
embryo removed and burnt, with a view to securing fertility for the
crops. On 21 April, at the Parilia festival, the flocks were driven
through the smoke from burning straw and laurel leaves, to purify
them, in other words, to scare away any demons that might have
attached themselves to the animals. The deities of the period were
impersonal, and even the people themselves possessed no very clear
idea of their nature. They were simply the numina, that is, spirits
without human attributes. The king (Rex) was the chief priest.
To assist him, and perform the sacrifices, were the Flamines ; whilst
the Vestals took care of the sacred fire. This system was reproduced
in the home, the father, sons and daughters each having their
religious relationship to each other.
§ 75. As Roman History progressed, the deities became more
personified and less close to the hearts of the people. The religion
was a State religion par excellence, and individual citizens took but
little part in its practice, with the result that a private or family
religion developed as a personal form of occult observance. The
centre of each home was the hall, the focus point of each hall the
hearth, where the household gods, Vesta and the Penates, were
supposed to dwell.
§ 76. Vesta was the spirit of the fire and the hearth; part of
each meal was burned in her honour. The Penates were the spirits
of the family store, a sanctuary no impure person might enter,
hence children were employed for the purpose. Another household
god was the Genius of the paterfamilias: not his soul in our modern
sense, but the spirit that working through him insured the con­
tinuance of the family.
§ 77. The Roman dead were supposed to continue to exist as
spirits, and a sacred meal was always eaten over the grave as part
of the funerary rites. The food was first offered to the dead and then
consumed by the mourners. This ceremony was repeated every
year, but its organization was taken over by the State, a sort of
Bank Holiday being observed—the Roman All-Souls’ Day.
§ 78. There were many agricultural rites. The farmer, to secure
safety for his cattle, made offerings of meal, lard, flesh and wine, to
Mars Silvanus, a ceremony which no woman might see performed.
The whole Roman life was bound up in auspices and omens. Not
a bird crossed the sky, not a peal of thunder reverberated, without
the devout Roman stopping to consider what it might portend; in
what he had offended the gods; and, if he could think of anything
135
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
offensive in his recent behaviour, he would sacrifice a pig to
atone.
§ 79. In the later periods occult thought and practice became very
rich and varied throughout the Roman Empire, for their conquests
brought in whole nations, who were assimilated, and whose religions
and superstitions became engrafted into the Roman beliefs; and
further, the great religions of the East began to exert a vast influence,
and to grow in popularity as the inhabitants became increasingly
cosmopolitan. For instance, the Egyptian Isis had many devotees in
Rome and an imposing temple on the Campus Martius.
§ 80, The State never allowed religious authority to slip altogether
from its hands ; ecclesiastical and civil law were one ; to offend the
gods was to act treasonably towards the State. When the old cults
held sway in the minds of the populace, the old cults were State cults.
When the exploits of emperors made them popular figures, the
emperors were deified. Every form of occult practice found a foot­
hold in Rome in the later periods, because the imperial City ceased
to be the home of a people and became instead simply a centre of
government—an impersonal collection of imposing buildings, soulless,
but imbued with a spirit of false pride in its own vast achievement.
Just as all roads led to Rome, so all religions, cults, superstitions and
black arts traversed them till “ she of the seven hills ” was under­
mined by their anti-social influences.
The Hammer o f Thor
§ 81. In the North lands, occult thought in early times took the
form of Mother-Goddess’worship. Nerthus, according to the legends,
lived in a sacred grove on an island, and at intervals the priests
carried her effigy in a bullock wagon, through the land. On these
occasions all strife must cease and the people give themselves up to
rejoicing. She was the prototype of the later Njordr, a divine king
who, ruling with his son Frey, secured peace among men and fruitful­
ness in fields, flocks and herds. These were the old Vegetation Gods,
and their cults involved phallic rites, sacrifice, and all the ritual
associated with fecundity myths and the Great Mother, throughout
the world. Finally, as elsewhere, their lot was to suffer defeat at
the hands of war-gods; and in later Norse History we find a triad
of deities: Thor, the God of Thunder ; Tyr, the God of War; and
Odin, King of the Gods. The earlier family of gods is known as the
Vanir, the later as the Msir.
§ 82. The defeat of the Vanir, and the ascendancy of the ¿Esir,
indicates the influx of a conquering people ; and the study of culture-
trends suggests that these conquerors were of Mediterranean origin,
and that their primary object in visiting the Northern regions was to
secure amber, which had been added to the collection of magical
substances that the Oriental priests needed for their rites.
S83. Oscar Montelius, the famous scholar, has identified the
hammer of Thor with the Double Axe of Minos ; and the numerous
circular bronze plates which have come to light from time to time,
called sun-disks, suggest that a Solar Cult existed in Scandinavia.
136
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
S«4 - Thor, though friendly to man at most times, was, when
they transgressed, inclined to smite them with his mighty hammer.
As the oak tree was sacred to him, the acorn was used as an amulet
to protect the wearer from lightning. The use of the acorn as a
charm survives to-day in the custom of terminating window-blind
cords, and umbrella tassels, in a wooden or ivory model of the oak-
tree's fruit. Occult ideas are thus perpetuated, either consciously
or unconsciously, in numerous customs and beliefs. The 20th-
century North European, with acorns on his umbrella-tassel, does
not expect to be immune from the ill-effect of being struck by
lightning—the Hammer of Thor; but the South European who
purchases a little bag containing the ash of burnt oak certainly does
expect to be protected from the majority of life's ills. The most
primitive occult beliefs survive in the unconscious layers of the
human mind; hence, fortunes are actually attempted to-day by
marketing (in London !) gods of luck—little scraps of cast-brass that
are not even correct effigies of a Buddha!
§ 85. In the 20th century, as in heathen times, the Hammer of
Thor hangs poised aloft. It may at any moment descend with
avenging and destructive might. It is the wrath to come; and
man, miserable and alone, terribly afraid, and dreadfully ignorant,
strides through the traffic-thronged streets of our modem capitals,
in no better case than Aurignacian man crept through the under­
growth. Both of them ask only to control their fate, to avert
disaster, to dodge death, and, when a comrade is caught up, either
in the fangs of a prehistoric cave-lion, or in the meshes of a modem
machine, to appease that soul set free and prevent it doing mischief.
Aurignacian man and modem man are brothers under the skin;
each clings to his amulet, and the latter, in times of stress, has even
less to recommend him than the former.
The M elting-Pot
§ 86. Pagan Rome slowly declined, and Christianity, the flowering
of Abram's spiritual revolt, crept over the face of Europe, pushing
into abeyance but by no means exterminating the old pagan tribal
deities. It was impossible for the early Chnstian missionaries to
declare the gods false ; the best they could do was to contrast them
with the Holy Trinity, then degrade them to the status of demons,
evil spirits that must be despised by the servants of the One True God.
§ 87. Many pagan shrines were washed with holy water and
converted into Chnstian shrines ; many pagan festivals were squeezed
or stretched to conform to Christian festivals; but the old ideas
lived on and, driven underground, met on equal terms with even
earlier cults that had previously been degraded: so, like a dark
river swollen by numerous tributaries, the occult ideology of the
black arts flowed on beneath the fair face of Christianity.
§ 88. Orthodox religion sets an ethical standard that no man,
woman or even child (certainly in the modem Occident) can reach,
or desire to reach, at all times. The yogi may lie upon his bed of
nails to mortify his flesh; the Christian monk may even go so far
s.o. 137 k
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
as to attire himself in a horsehair shirt; but plain Farmer Giles
wishes for a full crop and a fine herd, and his daughter demands
a sweetheart. The simple-hearted farmer may crucify a hedgehog
to secure his wish, and his daughter consult some old hag in the
village for advice on the working of a love-charm, both obeying the
call of the occult, but definitely transgressing against the canons
of Christianity. They have dabbled in the black arts; and not
very long ago might have been hauled before an ecclesiastical court
on a serious charge of witchcraft and of having intercourse with
the evil one. Both might have been found guilty and condemned
to death.
§ 89. The European barbarians contemporaneous with the Caesars
were not sufficiently advanced to accept the high ideals of Christianity,
and neither are the semi-civilized inhabitants of Europe and America
to-dky; hence, any “ new religion ” is avidly snapped up: the
older its cults, the more secure its stranglehold on the neophytes.
Calling up spirits and asking stupid questions, as we may see from
the foregoing paragraphs, is by no means new ; receiving even more
stupid replies and acting on them is older than the oracles of classic
Athens.
§ 90. Philo of Alexandria, a Jew, could not allow that a hair's-
breadth deviation from truth was contained in the Pentateuch ; but
he was also rational, and learned in the materialistic philosophies of
Greece. Both were truth to him, and neither might be sacrificed to
the other, consequently he did very successfully what many have
since tried and failed to do with even older and newer discordant
ideas. He combined the two and produced a semi-factual, semi-
allegorical conglomeration of physics and metaphysics which set the
alchemists off in search of the Elixir of Life and the Philosophers'
Stone, to which end they dabbled in astrology, divination, and all
the paraphernalia of both black and white magic. The older grimoires
and accounts of wizardry and priestcraft were read and re-read,
misunderstood and misapplied. Kings and princes encouraged the
alchemists (it was to the interest of the secular party to have base
metals transmuted to gold). Popes and prelates excommunicated
them wholesale (it was not to the ecclesiastical interest to have the
old cults kept green). Soothsayers and necromancers flourished
exceedingly; devil-worship had almost as many adherents as God-
worship, and every village in medieval Europe boasted its witch,
who was loved and feared, consulted and betrayed, tried and burned,
whether she was guilty or not guilty—versed in the black arts or
entirely ignorant of them.
§ 91. Such was the hubble-bubble of the medieval European
melting-pot. Slowly the simmer subsided. The alchemists produced
no gold. The devil and the God worshippers alike failed to procure
eternal youth. Football, though illegal, was tolerated, and became
a more amusing diversion than witch-baiting; but at the bottom
of the slowly cooling cauldron is a precipitate of black ooze, on the
top a scum of white slime, and between them the clear soup of
rational, ethical behaviour is becoming palatable.
138
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
5 92. There is no trend of occult thought that has not found a
foothold in the European mind. Negro phallic fetishes are displayed
in Bond Street galleries and simpered over by the adherents of the
new art; nudist colonies flourish and produce their journals fully
illustrated in photogravure; astrologers, palmists, phrenologists,
numerologists, and a thousand other charlatans prey upon the
gullibility of a spiritually-starved public.
§ 93. Troubled man, too puny and too mean-spirited to stand
upon faith in the transcendental Christ, sneaks into the unseen
world of his occult awareness by back-doors and kitchen-stairs.
The sublime, snow-enclad peak of Christianity has scared man into
the underground channels of the black arts. The witches flourish—
not necessarily in the hovels of the villages, but often in expensive
suites of chambers, where they may be visited by the discreet, in
any major European or American city. The idea underlying the
Aurignacian cave-paintings was represented by geometrical shapes
in Babylon ; later, the designs were decorated with numbers and
letters of the alphabet; to-day, a few Sanscrit ciphers are added;
and the result, be it either a horoscope or an esoteric theosophical
sigil, depicts not knowledge symbolized in formula, but fear transcend­
ing reason.
H oa-H aka-Nana-Ia
§ 94. On the eastern end of the central platform of the colonnade
of the British Museum, stands a colossal grey granite figure. The
chin is thrust forward, the stem mouth closed in a firm line. The
heavy brows frown down over hollow eye-sockets which, catching
the light and shadows, seem to contain angry glittering orbs. It is
Hoa-Haka-Nana-Ia, the effigy of a god, the representative of the
wrath to come.
§ 95. This figure, brought to England from Easter Island, is the
image and embodiment of a thousand mysteries and an endless
romance, but for the present he must stand before us in one aspect
only ; as the concrete expression of the occult ideology of all primitive
people. Among the native inhabitants of the Pacific Islands, includ­
ing Australia, throughout Africa and pre-Conquistadorian America,—
in short, wherever so-called “ savages ” dwell,—there are clearly
defined complexes of occult ideas so closely bound up with everyday
life that it is impossible to arrive at an understanding of the magico-
religious practices without first knowing something of savage society.
Needless to say, each ethnographic area has its peculiarities, and
no two tribes have quite the same customs, but, to condense much
into little and make a broad sweep involving a majority, it may be
stated that savages obey a chief, who is the absolute authority in
civil and military matters, and a witch-doctor, who is supreme in
affairs of conscience and medicine.
$96. To the savage the entire world is charged with a divine
energy called mana. Some objects and persons possess more of this
holy essence than others; hence, the ordinary man and his family
may handle the less charged things with impunity, whilst those
139
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
having more mana he may not touch, or, in some cases, even look
upon. That which may not be handled is tabu, to violate which
involves speedy retribution. For instance, in some parts, to eat
out of a chief's food basin is forbidden, and to offend in this means
death. It is onrecord that an Australian blackfellowwho unwittingly
violated this tabu, subsequently learned the ownership of the vessel
and dropped dead of fright. This extreme sensitiveness to the magical
properties of the common things of every day enables the witch­
doctor to control the inner life of the people and also to cure many
ills. He performs a ceremony over a sick man, repeating a magic
formula the while, and the illness departs, unless, of course, it so
happens that the malady itself has a stronger magic than that
possessed by the tribal medical magician. The witch-doctors are
also the midwives because they, and they alone, are able to divine
which ancestor's spirit is reincarnated in the new-comer, and therefore
they give the child its name. Also, it is only the witch-doctor who
knows how to keep at bay the evil spirits that hover in the air,
intent on harming the little one. A savage wishing for revenge
upon a neighbour consults the witch-doctor who functions in this
case by casting a spell, which, when the enemy learns of it, will
surely take effect. The savage believes that were it not for magic
worked to his undoing, he would live for ever, death is worked by
spells ; therefore when he falls sick, the curative process is to match
magic against magic. In some areas, although the witch-doctor is
endowed with supreme occult powers, each member of the community
possesses a little magic of his own, both public and private. Boat­
building, house-building, and numerous industries can be performed
only by the craftsman who knows the boat- or house-building magic,
and this secret is jealously guarded within the family. The same
applies to love-magic and beauty-magic.
§ 97. Not only men, but things, possess mana, and there are
numerous spirits and gods to be appeased and appealed to. All
this involves work for the witch-doctor. In times of drought it is
he who must perform the ceremonies and speak the words that
shall cause the rain to fall; and it is to him that the savage turns
for an unguent to make his arrows fly straight to the heart of the
quarry, as well as for a charm to make the food-plants grow in his
garden. All primitives pay a great deal of respect to the dead, and
many of them provide an annual public feast to which all ghosts
are invited. A great spread is made in the centre of the village,
and, whilst the living consume the material food, the ghostly guests
feed upon the spirit of the meat. At the conclusion of the festival
the shades are unceremoniously drummed out of the village—back
to the land of the dead.
§ 98. Variations of this system are to be found all through Oceania,
Africa and America; and though the foregoing is but the vaguest
suggestion of a most complicated and diversified social order, it is
sufficient to show that the savage lives a life in which occult ideas
are uppermost. There is no moment of day or night when he is
free from tabu. The occult powers are active about him constantly,
140
History of Occult Ideas History of Occult Ideas
producing a more self-controlled, God-fearing being than is the average
inhabitant of European countries. Because primitives, with a few
notable exceptions, are not historically-minded, it is impossible to
gauge how long the tabu system has been in existence ; but, turning
once again to Hoa-Haka-Nana-Ia, we will examine his back. Here
we see numerous devices in relief, among them being two faces with
the tongues extended. These tongues are in the form of cobras,
which is worthy of note considering that cobras (sacred Nagas) are
of Indian origin, and are not among the fauna of Easter Island.
Below, about the idol's middle, an arc of a circle spans like a girdle,
above which is poised a sun-disk. Hence, Hoa-Haka-Nana-Ia and
our own Stonehenge are very close relations. They were apparently
raised by people possessing occult ideas of like character, and, being
colossal, they must have been erected by a similar engineering
process. As previously stated in connection with megalithic monu­
ments, wherever savages dwell, stories are recounted of gods who
came out of the sea bringing with them magic, law, and order.
These gods were Sons of the Sun, the headquarters of whose cult
was Heliopolis in ancient Egypt. The priests of Ra, desiring foreign
metals and gems for use in their esoteric practice, the purpose of
which was to secure by occult means, everlasting life, set forces
moving that have resulted not only in the production of the witch­
doctor, who still cures by magic, but also, through the channels of
both Babylonian and Greek culture, in the evolution of the modem
European physician and surgeon, whose cures can often be described
only as “ nothing short of magic " ; and the latest developments of
medical science, psycho-therapy, is the completion of the circle. We
live by faith.
The Feathered Snake
§ 99. The American coast from Alaska to Cape Horn stands like
a wall along the world, and if it was possible for culture-bearing
people from the ancient East to sail their ships as far into the
Pacific as to discover and colonize an isolated speck of earth such
as Easter Island, then it is reasonable to assume that other voyagers
from the ancient East made a landfall on the coast of Central
America, an area known to archaeologists as the Maya Country.
§100. In this area there are vast remains of civilized cities built
in stone, of highly developed sculpture, of an involved hieroglyphic
script which is as yet only partly deciphered ; of admirable arts and
crafts, of pyramids, and, above all, a Sothic calendar. July was the
beginning of the Mayan New Year, and the last five days of the old
year were considered unlucky, and called 0 days that are nameless."
During this period a god was chosen to guard the coming year.
There was a choice of four to fill this office—each being a god of a
cardinal point of the compass, which again takes us back to Egypt,
where in the Book of the Dead we have already seen four such
deities standing upon a lotus-flower before Osiris. The Mayan gods
of the points were : for the east, the God of Fertility; for the north,
the Sun-God; for the west, the Oldest God, God of the Moon and
141
History of Occult Ideas History o r Occult Ideas
Fire ; and for the south, the God of the Dead and Ruler of the Six
Underworlds.
§ i o i . The priests were called Lords of the Days, and their duty
was not only to serve and make sacrifice to the gods but also to teach
and enlighten the people. The occult practice included animal-
sacrifice, fire-worship, and offerings to the rain-gods and Old God
(i.e. the moon) ; but the chief god was the Feathered Snake, called
Kukulcan, who was the culture hero, the divine being who taught
the people to be civilized. He was a Son of the Sun, hence we may
safely assume that the kings of the Mayan people were themselves
related to the sun, just as the king in Egypt was the descendant of
Ra. The Mayan civilization was followed by the Toltec and Aztec
in turn, and was a near neighbour of the Mexican and Peruvian
people whose rulers were the Incas, likewise sun-descended divine
kings.
§ 102. From this highly civilized centre all culture trends and
occult ideas passed out inwaves, as it were, and tinctured the occult
thought of the Indian tribes in both South and North America. By
the Indians nearest the centre the more diversified ideas of after-life
are held, and a more complicated ritual is practised, whilst those
at the extremes of the country are primitive in thought and crude
in expression.
The Spirit Guide
§ 103. The origin of the Mayan civilization is a vexed question
over which cultural anthropologists still do battle. The Diffusionist
school is of the opinion that it is of Eastern origin; the contrary
opinion is that it is indigenous to the area; but all the facts are in
support of the Diffusionist: and, viewing the controversy purely
from the aspect of the history of occult ideas, one must favour the
latter theory. Occult thought and its practice lingers near the heart
of everybody and passes rapidly from people to people, not in its
entirety, not fully understood; but a little sprinkling from any
man's magic may have an energizing effect on one's own.
§ 104. The highly developed complex of occultism passed out
from Central America and, degraded into a form of witchcraft,
survived among the red men who, unable to distinguish between
subjective sensation and objective experience, believed that their
dream-life was as real as their waking-life, and so, together with
other mysterious happenings, peopled the world about them with
spirits and discamate beings, one of which was appointed by Manito,
the chief of spirits, to accompany a Brave and direct him wherever
he went.
§ io j. The European invaders, when not too busy with their guns
and whisky, were learning from the red man, and the beginnings of
the modem spiritualistic movement can without question be traced
to the psychic experience of the Fox family, who were American;
hence, spirit mediums have “ guides," and such guides are not
infrequently called “ red feather " or something equally Red Indian
in origin.
142
H o a -H a k a -N a n a -Ia H o pk in s
§ 106. The vast tide of occult thought ebbs and flows around the
world, back and forth through time. From Aurignacian man we
trace the mighty endeavour along the high road of hope and fear,
in Egypt, Sumer, Babylon, India, Tibet, and China, the coral islands
of the Pacific, and the classic cities of Greece and Rome ; along the
Bronze-Age trade routes to the Far North, and down again through
barbarian Europe to clash with Rome already christianized. Across
the ocean, and there, the magnificent palace of Montezuma, the
heaven-descended king, glittered with gold and precious gems for
more than a thousand years before the Spanish Christian, Cortes,
descended upon peaceful people, putting them to rout with fire and
sword. South to Cape Horn where the maddest waves bellow,
and north to Alaska where the mute snows bind, travelled the
magical conception of controlling the gods and demons, of commun­
ing with the spirits, of securing good luck upon earth and a continued
existence beyond the grave. From the red-skinned hunter with his
feathered head-dress and scalping-knife, to the American colonist,
and back to 20th-century mechanized Europe, with its precision
lathes and aeroplanes—so the deep, dark tide of the occult ebbs
and flows for ever.
J- F.
Books recommended :
B reasted, J. H . :
Ancient Times : A History of the Early World (Q uinn & C o ., B o sto n ,
1916).
History of Egypt from the Earliest Times (H od d er & S to u gh to n , 1906).
K roeber, A . L . :
Anthropology (G. G . H arrap , 1924).
Perry, Dr. W. J.:
Children of the Sun (M ethuen, 1923).
Growth of Civilization (M ethuen , 1926).
Smith, Sir G . E lliot :
Ancient Egypt and the Origins of Civilizations (H arp er B ro s., 1923).
Diffusion of Culture (W a tts & C o ., 1933).
Evolution of the Dragon (L o n gm a n & C o ., 19 19 ).
Human History (Jo n a th an C ap e, 1934).
Hoa-Haka-Nana-Ia. See History Homeopathic Magic. See Black
o f Occult Ideas, §§ 94-8. Magic, §§ 3-4.
Hobgoblins. See Fairies, § 15.
Hogg. See English Literature and |
the Occult, § 9.
Hohenheim, Bombast von. See
Paracelsus.
Home, D. D. See Spiritualism,
Part I, §§ 27-34.
Hood, T homas. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 9.
Hope, L ord Charles. See Spirit­
ualism, Part II, § 17.
Hope, William. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 37-41.
Hopkins, Matthew. See Witch­
craft, § 12.
Homer. See Mandrake, § 7.
143
Horary Astrology Illusion and Hallucination
Horary Astrology. See Astro-
logy, § 2i.
Horns of Consecration. See
History of Occult Ideas, § 59.
Horoscope. See Astrology, § 21.
Horus. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 22.
Houses. See Astrology, § 4.
Hsi Wang Mu. Royal Lady of
the West. A legendary being
supposed to dwell on the K'un
Lun mountain. The peaches in
her garden ripen once in 3,000
years, and render the eaters im­
mortal. She is attended by five
fairy maidens, and she always
rides on a crane's back. Early
Jesuit missionaries identified
her with the Queen of Sheba,
later scholars with the Roman
Juno (Hera).
Hudson. See Spiritualism, Parti
II, § 35.
Hugh de Payens. See Black |
Magic, § 8.
Hun. See Chinese Occultism, § 1.
Hu-nefer, Papyrus of. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, § 28.
Hurz. See Moslem Occultism,
§16.
Hypnosis. See Psycho-therapy
and Psychic Phenomena.
Hypnotism. See Psycho-therapy
and Psychic Phenomena, §§ 2,
12 ; and Spiritualism, Part III,
§§ 1-3.
Hysteria. See Psycho-therapy and
Psychic Phenomena.
Hysterical Fraud. See Ghosts,
§ 13-
I
Tblis. See Moslem Occultism,
§6.
Ibn Beithor. See Mandrake, § 9.
Ibsen. See English Literature and
the Occult, § 18 ; and Werewolf,
the, § 10.
I Ching. See Chinese Occultism,
§ 15-
Ichthyomancy. Divination by
the entrails of fishes.
Ideas in Occultism. See History
of Occult Ideas.
Ifrit. See Moslem Occultism,
§ 1 1 -
ILLUSION AND HALLUCI­
NATION
Hyde Park Haunting. SeeGhosts, § 1. According to Esquirol, an
§ 9. illusion is the false interpretation
of external objects, while a hal-
Hydromancy. See White M agic, lucination is a subjective sensory
§ 3. image arising without external
stimulus but, projected outward,
Hypnogogic Hallucination. See assuming apparent objective real-
lUusion and Hallucination, §§ 6- ity. William James said that
to see an object, and to believe
144
Illusion and Hallucination Illusion and Hallucination
that one sees an object, is the same
thing except that in the latter case
there is no object to see. At first
glance, one might suspect the
eminent American psychologist of
attempting humour; but analysis
of the statement reveals that
James meant that every psycho­
logical function taking the char­
acter of a sense-impression is a
sense-impression; hence a hal­
lucinated person seeing a horse
sitting on the bed, or hearing a
voice whispering in his ear, is
speaking the truth when he in­
forms others of these matters, for
to him a hallucination is not
merely like, but actually is, a
sense-impression.
§ 2. It is not at all times easy to
draw a hard and fast line between
objective reality and subjective
sensation, even when free from
pathological conditions that give
rise to hallucination. Sense-im­
pressions obtained through the
receptor-organs must be inter­
preted with the aid of experience
and memory. It is impossible to
see “ a white stick, three feet
long,” but it is possible to experi­
ence a sensation of whiteness,
three feet long, in the visual field.
On a foggy night a beam of light
sloping down from a keyhole, is
also “ a sensation of whiteness,
three feet long, in the visual field.”
It may easily be mistaken for a
stick and so cause the walker to
step carefully over it. One set of
receptor-oigans alone is insuffi­
cient to enable experience to give
accurate information concerning
external objects. Visual stimulus
plus experience makes of the beam
of light a stick. Tactile sensi­
bility could dispel this illusion:
the beam of light would not feel
like a stick, but on the other hand
the sense of touch itself is easily
deceived, as anyone knows who
has tried the experiment of cross­
ing the first and second finger,
and rolling a pellet of bread about
in the bifurcation thus formed,
thereby receiving an impression
of two pellets. Further self-
deception may be practised by
exerting a lateral pressure on one
eyeball and so disturbing the
macular focus. In this way two
pellets may be actually seen.
§ 3. When " the man in the
street ” demands indignantly,
“ Can't I believe my own eyes ? ”
the correct reply is, “ Of course
not ” ; however, it is probable
that so strict an adhesion to truth
would result in the gain of nothing
desirable; and in any case,
normally and for practical pur­
poses the five senses are suffi­
ciently accurate gauges of objec­
tive reality. Nevertheless, a very
slight defect in the reaction of the
nervous system may bring about
startling results, as, for instance,
when the drunken man seeing two
glasses, knocks over the substance
in an endeavour to grasp the
shadow; or when very small in­
voluntary muscular movements
of the eye, after turning rapidly
a few times, are interpreted as a
rotating movement of the room.
§ 4. An illusion of animation is
produced when sixteen or twenty-
four still pictures, each successive
one being a slight advance on the
last, are projected on to a screen
in the time-period of one second :
hence the Cinema. Add to this
the voice effects of a modern
“ sound film,” and the uninitiated
will find it very difficult to accept
the fact that living persons are not
actually acting before his eyes.
§ 5. The illusion of a straight
rod appearing bent when half its
length is immersed in water is so
145
I l l u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n I l l u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n
frequently quoted and explained the effects from more or less the
that the laws underlying the same locality. On the other
phenomenon must be well known hand, a hallucination arising from
to everyone ; but the appearance within the sensorium is generally
of an oasis to travellers in the
desert, and of ships in the sky to
mariners at sea, are not so uni­
versally understood. Theseby no
means uncommon illusions are due
to the same laws of optics as the
" straight rod bent ” phenomenon,
a very personal and private affair,
though in some cases it may be
shared by another person who
becomes sympathetically “ in­
fected." In August 1894 the
Society for Psychical Research
published a census which, along
that is, vision through two with other statistics, indicated
mediums of differing refractive that almost 12 per cent, of persons
index. In the case of the rod they suffered from waking hallucina-
are air and water ; in that of the tion, if not as a perpetual mental
mirage, both mediums are air—
one layer being of a higher tem­
perature than the other. The
defect, at least on occasions. The
question put was : “ Have you
ever, when believing yourself
great density of water as a refrac- completely awake, had a vivid
tive medium causes the “ bent ”
appearance in the short focal
length of the bucket or pool; but
when the lens effect is produced by
currents of warm or cold air, the
focal length increases to many
miles, so that the oasis, or ship far
beyond the horizon, becomes
visible apparently on, or above it.
Ships are even, on some occasions,
seen inverted high up in the sky.
impression of seeing or being
touched by a living being or
inanimate object, or of hearing a
voice ; which impression, so far as
you could discover, was not due to
any external physical cause ? "
Over twenty-seven thousand of
these questions were sent out,
internationally: over twenty-four
thousand persons so addressed
replied ; hence the figure, 12 per
The Fata Morgana, or Castle of cent., may be taken as fairly
the Fairy Morgana, occasionally representative of the entire popu-
visible on the surface of the waters lation of the civilized world,
of the Straits of Messina, between Many of the instances dealt with
the coast of Sicily and Italy, is an in the census are of persons seeing
illusion due to refraction; and the the apparition of a friend, who
same startling effects have been they subsequently learned had
observed on the English Channel, expired at or about the time of the
when the coast of France has hallucination—a most impressive
become visible in minute detail, occurrence that seems to confirm
local fishermen in the vicinity of the objective existence of ghosts.
Hastings recognizing on one occa- It must, however, be clearly
sion French fishing-boats at understood that events are very
anchor. Of this we have the easily confused one with another,
confirmation of a Fellow of the if either or both are of a suffi-
Royal Society who was resident ciently arresting nature, and that
there at the time. waking-consciousness and dream-
§6. All the foregoingare optical states are apt to blend till they
illusions which may be shared by become indistinguishable. Ulus-
numerous spectators observing trative of this latter point, the
146
I l l u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n
following is important: On 31
December 1856 Mr. T. Pratt was
carrying on business as a tailor in
a house on the comer of Warwick
Street, Pimlico. At about seven
o'clock in the evening a curate
from St. Barnabas's Church,
Pimlico, one Mr. Gleddos, called
to pay a bill, and also to order a
new coat, which he desired to
“ try on " before departing on a
journey the following day. Mr.
Pratt was very busy on another
garment needed for urgent de­
livery, so he decided to sit up late
and complete the task. In his
own words : “ I was accustomed
to work all night frequently, and
continued working at the coat
after my wife and family had
retired to bed. I kept on working
and thinking about my order,
planning it out in my mind, when
suddenly Mr. Gleddos appeared at
the comer of the board onwhich I
was sitting, and at the same spot
as he had stood in the evening,
and looking just the same as he
did in the evening ; the gas-light
was between us. At that moment
the room door opened and he
vanished. The fright was so
great, I felt the hair go stiff on my
head. I had leaped from the
board and looked outside the
door, but saw nothing of him."
With his knees trembling so that
he could hardly climb the stairs.
Mr. Pratt went to bed, and next
morning felt so very shaken that
he was disinclined to recommence
work. At about nine o'clock,
another curate from St. Barna­
bas's Church called with the re­
ceipted bill, and asked Pratt if he
could give any information con­
cerning Gleddos, who had died
suddenly during the night /, the bill
being the only clue to his move­
ments upon the previous evening.
I ll u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n
Later in the day Mr. Pratt, feeling
somewhat recovered from his
nocturnal fright, decided to re­
commence business. Proceeding
to his workshop, he picked up the
coat on which he had been en­
gaged and prepared to continue.
His narrative runs : “ As I was
about to begin I was surprised at
the last part of the back stitching
for hem ; the stitches were all
shapes and not one alike. This
convinced me that I had been
asleep, although my hand had
used the needle at the same time."
Mr. Pratt was evidently a very
level-headed man : having satis­
fied himself thus far, he made
further search and concluded that
the door had blown open and
awakened him from a sleep of
about thirty seconds' duration.
The evidence of the irregular
stitches was sufficiently convinc­
ing for Mr. Pratt, who must have
been an artist at his work, though
many people would have con­
sidered the bad technique to be
due to the fright they had re­
ceived, and so the apparition of
Mr. Gleddos would have featured
among the " best authenticated
ghost stories." However, there
would still have been, as there so
frequently is, a margin for doubt:
why should the dead curate have
appeared to his tailor instead of,
let us say, his mother ? Unless
it was to intimate that the gar­
ment he had so urgently required
was now no longer necessary.
§ 7. Mr. Pratt's “ nasty shock "
was what is known technically as
hypnogogic hallucination. Such
Experiences occur when a person
is in a state bordering on the
realms of sleep, a form of somno­
lence which may be either light
or deep, according to how near
the subject is to complete wake-
I l l u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n I l l u s io n a n d H a l l u c in a t io n
fulness or actual slumber; hence
a person apparently awake and
actively engaged on even a more
strenuous and less monotonous
occupation than sewing, may
actually be in a hypnogogic con­
dition, when the appearances of
dream-life can manifest them­
selves in waking consciousness.
Under these circumstances, the
subject is positive that he is fully
awake, and at the same time
receives a very vivid visual or
auditory impression.
§ 8. Persons having experienced
a hypnogogic hallucination which
they have convinced themselves is
a real appearance, are as a rule
very subject to suggestion
concerning it, and medical men
investigating such cases fre­
quently use this susceptibility as
a test. For instance, a subject
seeing an apparition and reporting
it, will, on hearing of the death of,
or an accident to, the person
whose shade had appeared, very
naturally connect the two events,
and claim to have had a prophetic
vision, though hours and in some
cases even days may elapse be­
fore the death or accident follows
the 4
1prophecy/' In the course
of interrogation, the suggestion,
4
4Didyou not observe howvery ill
helooked whenyou sawhim?'' will
elicit the reply, 4
4Indeed he did I
the appearance of death was upon
him 1'' though in the first report
no such observation was made.
§ 9. Those subject to so-called
4
4psychic ” experiences are seldom
if ever able to judge the exact
extent of their wakefulness at the
time; it is therefore impossible
either to accept the 4
4ghost '' as
an objective fact, or to declare all
a
aritions to be hypnogogic
urinations; but in a great
many instances, the circumstances
indicate the probability of the
appearance having been seen dur­
ing a dream-state, and facts
brought forward in confirmation
of the objective reality of a ghost
often assist greatly in diagnosing
the hypnogogic condition. For
example, a mother confirms her
child's vision of his dead grand­
father by stating, 44. . . he
woke me up by calling out and I
saw it myself, as plain as any­
thing, and it gradually faded
away 1" The words 4
4he woke
me u p ” 1 are quite sufficient to
discredit the objective existence
of grandfather's ghost, even if
each hair of the old gentleman's
beardhad been distinctly visible.
§ 10. After we gaze fixedly at a
red spot, a green one, identical in
size and shape, will be visible to
us when our eyes are closed. This
is an4
4after-image " involvingthe
retina. It is quite different from
visual hallucination, in which the
physical eye takes no part. This
was proved in the case of
Esquirol's spectre-seeing patient,
who subsequently became blind,
a defect, however, which did not
put an end to the morbid dis­
turbance, the sightless sufferer
continuing to project the imagined
forms into the now extinct visual
field. These impressions were
purely subjective and could not
have arisen from any secondary
entoptic reaction, because the
nervous connection between eye
and brain was found, on autopsy,
to be completely atrophied.
§ 11. Sir David Brewster's re­
cipe for laying a ghost is to exert
a lateral pressure on the eyeball.
This expedient, as previously
explained, throws the orbs out of
1 Appearances of this nature after
sleep are more properly called " hypno-
pompic ” hallucinations.
148
Im a g e I n cu bu s a n d S u ccu bu s
macular focus, with the result that
all visual impressions that have an
objective existence will appear
doubled, but the ghost, or other
apparition, even though it is suffi­
ciently vivid to blot out the
objects behind it, will remain
single if it is of subjective origin.
Persons finding themselves con­
fronted with a phantom are gener­
ally much too startled to try any
such experiment; but its efficacy
was confirmed by Dr. D. Hack
Tuke, who had opportunities of
testing it on his patients.
J- F.
Book recommended:
Woltbrs, A. W. P., The Evidence
of our Senses (Methuen, 1933).
I m age, d e st r u c t io n o f . See Black
Magic, §§ 5-7.
“ I m m o r t a l H ou r, T h e .” See
Sharp, W illiam .
I m p s . See Fairies, § 15.
INCUBUS AND SUCCUBUS
§ 1. The incubus is a spirit, evil
to be sure, which, taking the sem­
blance of a man, has intercourse
with mortal women. The succu­
bus is a similar spirit which in the
form of a woman behaves in a like
manner with mortal men. Holin-
shed, in his Chronicles under the
date 1480, gives the harrowing
story of a Scottish ship overtaken
by a violent storm in midsummer,
whereupon a woman passenger
burst into lamentation, declaring
herself an adulteress with an in­
cubus, and asking to be cast into
the sea that the rest of the ship's
company might be saved. It
so happened that a priest on
board exorcised the demon which
“ issued forth at the pumpe of the
ship, a foule and evil-flavoured
black cloud, with a mighty
terrible noise, flame, smoke, and
stinke."
§ 2. The Hebrew Lilith,
“ Adam's firstwife," wasregarded
as queen of the succubi by the
theologians who spent much time
investigating such matters. St.
Augustine states that “ devils do
indeed collect human semen, by
means of which they are able to
produce bodily effects: but this
cannot be done without some local
movement, therefore demons can
transfer the semen which they
have collected and inject it into
thebodiesofothers." St. Thomas
Aquinas did much to prove that
incubi and succubi were demons
sent to tamper with frail human­
ity ; but in the 17th century Peter
Sinistrari made the unorthodox
claim that such visitants were not
demons but semi-angels who hon­
oured mankind by contact.
§ 3. Many renowned people, in­
cluding Caesar, Alexander the
Great, and Plato, have the dis­
tinction of descent from such
natural unions, which is not im­
possible when one takes into con­
sideration that Hieronymus re­
lates a story of a young woman
who called for help against the
attack of an incubus, which, on
being pulled from under the bed
where it had rushed to hide,
proved to be none other than the
good Bishop Sylvanus—whose re­
putation would undoubtedly have
suffered had he not, then and
there, preached a sermon on the
wickedness of the demons, incubus
and succubus, who assume the
form of living humans to assist
them in the execution of their
unhallowed tasks.
J.
149
I n d ia n O c c u l t ism I n d ia n O c c u l t is m
INDIAN OCCULTISM
§ I. The beginnings of organized occult thought in India may
with safety be placed about 1500 b .c ., when the Aryan invaders
settled in the Peninsula, and composed the Vedas, that collection
of hymns and verses upon which the religious life of India is based,
and out of which its mysticism has grown.
§ 2. Between occultism and materialism, as between religion and
philosophy, there is no distinction in the Indian mind. The purpose
of life is to attain union with the Godhead, either by a willed
endeavour or in the natural course of events : and all religions, all
occult systems and all philosophies tend ultimately to that end,
which is, in effect, self-annihilation. To the Occidental mind, this
is the epitome of pessimism ; but actually the spirit of the Rig-
Vedic songs is essentially optimistic, for the ascetic believes that,
when all desires are destroyed, he has become one with the Absolute,
while he is still here on earth. The Rig-Veda is the oldest of the
Vedic writings, and consists very largely of formulas to be recited
while sacrifice of soma juice and melted butter (ghee) is being offered
up. It also contains a mythological element giving accounts of gods
and heroes, their dwellings and deeds, but does not deal with demons
and evil spirits. The Sama-Veda is composed of hymns drawn
chiefly from the Rig-Veda ; and the remaining two books are rather
different in character, being more in the nature of magic than reli­
gion ; of these the Yajur-Veda, written in prose, is the older; and
the Atharva-Veda, with its ramifications, the fuller in magical for­
mulas. It is built up, in the main, of spells, and forms the basis
of Indian witchcraft. Despite the separateness of the four books,
it is not possible to distinguish between occultism and religion by
paying exclusive attention to the matter contained in either section,
nor is it possible to make the distinction by concentrating upon
either deities or demons, for not infrequently both are represented
by the same personage in the Indian pantheon. The Vedic scrip­
tures include the Brahmanas and the Upanishads: the former are
a set of theological treatises based on the Rig-Veda, and suggesting
the existence of a Father-God; the latter, though an offshoot of
the Brahmanas, virtually represents a new train of sublime thought,
replacing the Father-God with the idea of a world-soul, of which all
living things are partakers, and introducing the conception of rein­
carnation for individual souls, until perfection is reached.
§ 3. The Vedic creation-myth is vague and confused, primitive
and philosophical at the same time. The universe is stated to be
built of wood and supported on posts, yet at the same time sup­
posed to be evolved from a giant who was slain by the gods. From
his enormous limbs the four castes were created: his head forms the
sky, his navel the air, and his feet the earth—a very materialistic
conception compared to " the existent sprang from the non-existent/'
a point of sublimity which is reached, then abandoned in the Brah­
manas, where it is written that the earth was raised from the
Primordial Flood by a wild boar that lifted it on its back. The
150
I n d ia n O c c u l t is m I n d ia n O c c u l t ism
belief that water existed before all things is maintained right through
the Indian Scriptures, but the " non-existent " is not intended as
a poetical expression for “ water/'
§ 4. The origin of man is variously ascribed to Agni, the god of
fire, or Manu and Yama, two sons of Vivasvat, the solar deity. The
gods are numerous, and vary greatly in power and importance,
descending in grandeur from world-pervading spirit, through a long
scale of specialists divinities, to agricultural implements, certain of
which are deified and worshipped. The ability of an Indian deity
to be both beneficent and terrible, results in an extremely compli­
cated set of ritualistic exercises; for though the formulas of the
Atharva-Veda and Yajur-Veda may be potent against lesser demons,
they are powerless, for instance, where such a vast force as Karala
is concerned. Although she is a benign goddess, she is named “ the
horrible one," and the help of the exclusively benevolent powers
must be implored against her demoniac manifestations. The chief
gods are stated to be thirty-three in number. They are divided
into three groups of eleven, having power over respectively the earth,
the air, and the heavens. In the Brahmanas they are styled Vasus,
Rudras, and Adityas. The gods of lesser rank—for instance, storm-
gods, rain-gods and the like, are not included among these ; but
even the highest gods are considered to have once been mortals,
and to have attained their divine elevation by the practice of
austerity.
§ 5. Because of their human origin these deities are regarded as
still possessing human shape, but they nevertheless symbolize and
partake of the nature of that force or power which they represent;
thus the oft-mentioned arms of Vivasvat are the rays of the sun,
the tongues of Agni are tongues of flame. Their abode is the third
heaven, or the highest step of Visnu (i.e. the zenith), where they
live a life of eternal bliss having for their sustenance the milk, butter,
grain and meats offered in sacrifice by their worshippers. The
deities are always invoked and addressed in pairs, a practice which
enables both gods to share the attributes and characteristics properly
belonging to one alone ; hence identification becomes confounded
with identification until Aditi and Prajapati become the embodiment
of all the gods and of all the forces of nature as well, resulting in
a form of pantheism.
§ 6. The oldest god, Dyaus (heaven), is, like the Greek Zeus,
father of the gods. He is coupled with Pirthivi (earth), the two
being regarded as universal parents. Varuna is the chief repre­
sentative of moral order, and the keeper of the stars' courses in the
heavens. Mitra (friend) is a personification of the sun’s warmth.
Surya (the sun) prolongs life and drives away disease; he is the
husband of Usas, the goddess of dawn, who comes into being when
the Asvins, twin deities (lords of the steeds), yoke up their chariot.
They are considered personifications of the morning and the even­
ing star, and are divine physicians who succour all in distress, more
particularly the shipwrecked. Savitar (the stimulator) bestows
immortality on gods and longevity on men; he is also the psycho-
151
I n d ia n O c c u l t ism I n d ia n O c c u l t ism
pomp conducting the souls of the departed to the abode of the
righteous. Pusan (the prosperer) protects cattle, and acts as
psychopomp in conveying souls to the abode of the fathers. Visnu
assumes great importance on account of his avatars (i.e. descents
to earth), each incarnation being solely for the benefit of man.
Indra is the mighty warrior-god, and the most popular in Indian
thought. It was owing to his might in slaying Vrtra, that the
waters were released, and left to flow for the benefit of man. He
is the thunder-god par excellence. Apam napat is son of the water,
but is also in some obscure way connected with lightning and with
fire; and Matarisvan is the bringer of fire to earth, though he is
also the wind-god. Ruda is the early form of Siva; the origin is
obscure, but seems to have some bearing on lightning and fire;
however, he is god of destruction bringing disease and death to men
and cattle. His sons are the Maruts (storm-gods), “ bom from the
laughter of the lightning.” They are eternally young, ride in
chariots, create havoc with their battle-axes, but assist Indra in
his conflicts. Parjanya is a personification of the rain-cloud; he
is called the divine father because he brings fertility to the earth.
There is also a group of abstract deities, as well as deified human
heroes, animals, and inanimate objects, including mountains, rivers,
weapons and implements.
§ 7. The demons are of two orders: the Asuras, evil powers in
opposition to the gods, Indra’s foe, Vrtra, being one of them; and
Raksas, goblin spirits that inhabit the earth and oppose mortals.
These earth-goblins take many forms including those of animals and
birds. They prowl chiefly at night, and entering the bodies of
animals and men produce disease and madness ; men become were­
wolves because of them. The Pisacas are flesh-eating demons of
the ghoul and vampire type.
S8. To the Atharva-Veda there are numerous supplements called
Parisistas. One of the most interesting of these, from the point of
view of occult practice, is the Asuri-Kalpa, a manual of witchcraft
outlining rites to be performed in connection with the asuri-plant,
which is the native name for black mustard. This pungent vege­
table was regarded as a very powerful goddess, because one of her
seeds alone could bum the mouth so thoroughly. The mustard in
India, when used to magic ends, is treated in the same way as wax
or clay in Europe : the seed is ground to meal, then, mixed with
melted butter, formed into an image of the person to be destroyed,
and with incantations burned in a sacred-fire-pot. According to
the laws of Manu, witchcraft of this kind is not reprehensible:
” With thought one should perform the [rites] of the Atharva-Veda,
without hesitation. The word is the Brahman's weapon. With it
the *twice-born 1 shall smite his enemies.” Repetition of magic
formula is the keynote of successful witchcraft in India as else­
where, and some of the spells have to be reiterated so frequently
that it seems the witchmight die of exhaustion before the malefidum
was complete. For instance: “ Om obeisance to Ruda: Om O
Pungent one, thou of the pungent leaf, blessed Asuri, reddish one,
152
I n d ia n O c c u l t ism I n d ia n O c c u l t ism
thou of the reddish garment, O daughter of Atharvan, non-terrific
one, non-terrific wonder worker 1 [Name of enemy] smite, smite,
crush, crush, bum, bum, cook, cook: so long smite, so long
crush, so long bum, so long cook, . . . until thou hast brought
him into my power/' is a little prayer which in theory needs to
be repeated ninety million times, because Durga (who is also Kali,
and Siva, and Ruda, and numerous others) has that number of
bodily forms and might be offended if one of them was omitted.
However, the mental gymnastics that enable the Indian to
confuse gods with demons, also enable him to contract very
considerably the number of repetitions, without incurring the
wrath of Durga. Different kinds of fuel must be consumed in the
sacred-fire-pot, the status of the person to be bewitched determining
the selection. For Rajas and women, arka-wood is prescribed ; for
Brahmans, palasa-wood; for Ksatriyas, khadira-wood ; for Vaisyas
and Sudras, udumbara-wood; and for foreigners, nimba-wood. All
these woods have a sacred symbolism attached to them, and are
mentioned in the Laws of Manu, wherein is also laid down the types
of wood that may be cut for staffs, by members of each of the four
castes. Not only for the destruction of foes, but for the gaining
of good looks and wealth, and in fact, for all the numerous rami­
fications that are found in European witchcraft, the Asuri-Kalpa
has formulas; and were it not accepted that Oriental and Occidental
witchcraft both descend from a common ancestor, one might be
inclined to think that the leaders of the European witch-cults were
in occult communion with the wizards of India.
§ 9. Although destiny and disease are in the hands of the gods,
the Indian does not dare expect an incarnation of the mighty Visnu
for the sole purpose of curing his sick cow (avatars being for the
benefit of humanity at large), nor can he with any show of decency
desire the deity, in public, to visit his neighbour's cattle with mur­
rain ; hence the witch in India, in spite of British rule, is kept
fairly busy. The fact of the Atharva-Veda containing the ritual
of witchcraft defeats the theory that all the black art practised in
India arises from the contamination of the Dravidian people (i.e.
pre-Aryans), though it is true that the Dravidian tribes resort more
frequently to witchcraft than the Aryan people, and are more inclined
to confuse the witch herself with the discamate intelligences, by
whose aid she is supposed to work. They even consider sorcerers
to be immortal so long as the esoteric knowledge is preserved; but
as immortality is tolerable only to gods, the witches ultimately
choose a successor, impart the secrets of their craft—and die.
§ 10. A particularly dreaded type of sorcerer is the Jigar-Khor,
or liver-eater. By repeating incantations she (they are mostly
women) can cause a person's liver to leave the body. She keeps
the organ for two and a half days, then eats it ; but if she can be
caught and put under the influence of an exorcist she will be forced
to replace the stolen liver by that of an animal. Another witch
that lives on human flesh is the Kalaratri, a type of werewolf, but
possessed of enormous occult ability; she can restore the dead to
s,o. 153 l
I n d ia n O c c u lt ism I n d ia n O c c u l t ism
life, set fire to water, render stone soft as wax, and confer the power
of shape-shifting on to any person who craves that boon. To
accomplish this end, she employs a familiar called a Bir. The
animal form assumed by lycanthropists is always that of the most
formidable of local carnivora, hence the Kalaratri becomes a tiger;
but the Bir is not necessarily one of these troublesome beasts, for
the tiger has an aunt that taught him everything except how to
climb trees. It follows that the tutor must know more, for good
or ill, than the pupil; therefore, although the tiger's aunt is only
the cat, Zalim Sinh, the famous Regent of Kota, falling sick and
fancying himself bewitched, had every cat expelled from his can­
tonment.
§ n . Fear of the evil eye in India pervades all castes and, no
matter the financial status or cultural achievement of a family, it
is a common practice for children to be called something other than
their name. This precaution is supposed to deceive demons. Some­
times children of rich parents are dressed in the poorest and even
the dirtiest of clothes so as not to invite envious glances. It is
also usual for boys to be dressed as girls during infancy—a practice
which spread to Victorian England, either with or without its
attendant superstition. To the Indian, all Europeans have the evil
eye and are not kindly disposed enough to surround their orbs with
a ring of lamp-black as a general warning. When a native witness
before a European tribunal keeps his eyes down during examina­
tion, it is not because he is committing perjury (or not only for
that reason, as the case may be), but to avoid the dangerous stare
of the stipendiary. It is also well known in India that the finger­
nails of Europeans exude a foul poison, and that is why they
eat with a knife and fork instead of with their hands, like decent
people.
§ 12. Iron is considered a potent protection against witchcraft
and all kinds of demons and evil forces. It is customary to put
an unsheathed knife on the couch of a parturient female to keep
the demons at bay; and no house is safe to inhabit if it has not
been built round an iron pot, and is without an iron ring hanging
above the entrance. Copper and brass, gold and silver, coral and
shells, precious stones, glass beads, blood, salt and incense, are all
considered of great protective efficacy; but as an Indian ghost is
easily able to stretch itself to a length of eighty miles, these charms
seem pitifully mild.
§ 13. Chief among benign ghosts is the Brahmadaitya, that is,
the spirit of a Brahman who has died unmarried. He is very par­
ticular about his food, lives in a tree, and is kindly disposed to
human beings so long as they do not trespass on his domain. Should
they do so, he literally breaks their necks; therefore, if it is abso­
lutely necessary for an Indian to climb a tree, he prays to all the
gods beforehand. The Indians have no fairy folk «kin to the
European variety, unless it is possible to include the two friendly
little agricultural sprites called Jak and Jakni, who are the modern­
ized version of the Vedic gods of wealth, Yaksha and Kuvera. The
154
I n d ia n O c c u l t ism I n d ia n O c c u l t is m
Jak is male and the Jakni female; they live apart, each assuming
the responsibility of protecting a village, but the Jak will always
steal things from his villagers and make presents of them to his
Jakni; that is how things lost here may sometimes be found there I
Among friendly ghosts one might include the Bugaboos, in whose
objective existence even the Indians do not believe. Mothers use
them to quieten naughty children. In the ranks of these “ terrible ”
creatures are to be found Ghoghar (the hooting owl), Mano (the
cat), Dokar Kaswa (the old man with the bag), and last but by no
means least—Warren Hastings.
§ 14. The philosophy of the Vedic Scriptures descends by imper­
ceptible stages to the folk-lore of modem India, taking in its long
stride Hinduism, Jainism, and Buddhism, together with the mystic
systems that have been evolved from these religions. Beneath it
all, and erupting through it is the primitive, demon-ridden Dravidian
Cult, which comes very near the everyday life of the people, with
the result that the highest abstract thought exists side by side with
materialistic and superstitious practice. The transcendental mental
attitude of the yogi is one with repellent self-mutilation; his all-
embracing love enables him not only to tolerate but actually to
delight in body lice. The complete yogi who has at last acquired
so much body and mind control that he can at will throw himself
into a cataleptic trance, in which state he may be buried alive for
days only to rise again none the worse for his experience, probably
believes that he has conquered death, and is even able to convey
that impression to others ; nevertheless the fact remains that cata­
lepsy is not death, and even if it were, the holy man is of no prac­
tical use in the world and might, so far as that is concerned, just
as well stay dead. L. Jacalliot, in Occult Science in India, p. 219,
says: “ From the remotest antiquity the pundits of the pagodas
have been in the habit of bursting vessels by the use of compressed
steam. They have also observed many electrical phenomena, but
that has not led to the construction of railroads or telegraphs/'
Such practical tasks have been left to the European, who has received
little thanks for his endeavours; and indeed it is a moot point
whether it is more important to obliterate self in a divine endeavour
to defeat reincarnation, or get quickly and comfortably from Bombay
to Calcutta. The Indian occultist does not consider the affairs of
this world of any importance, but strives to detach himself com­
pletely, so that his soul may have no desire for reincarnation, and
thus enable him to become one with the Absolute. In theory this
is a very high ideal; in practice it degenerates into a set of super-
conjuring tricks, impressive enough to render the occult-inclmed
European emulous, and send the materialistically-minded European
away in a state of awed, if not respectful silence.
See also History of Occult Ideas, §§ 44-50.
J- F.
Book recommended:
Farquhar, J. N., A Primer of Hinduism (Oxford University Press, 1912)«
155
In d ia n R o p e T h ick
I n d ia n R o p e T r ic k . See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 22.
I n d ia n W it c h c r a f t . See Indian
Occultism, §§ 8-15.
I n d ia n s, R ed, o c c u l t ideas o f .
See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 104-6.
In d r a . SeeIndian Occultism, § 6.
I ngalese, M r . and M r s. See
Alchemy, §§ 57-60.
I n g o l d sb y , See Barham, Rev.
R . H .
I n n o c e n t VIII, B u l l o f . See
Witchcraft, § 6.
I n v is ib il it y . See Black Magic,
§ 19-
I reton , g h o st o f . See Ghosts,
§ 8.
Ir v in g , W a s h in g t o n . SeeEnglish
Literature and the Occult, § 19.
I sh tar a n d T a m m u z . See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 39-41.
. Isis. See History of Occult Ideas,
§ 79-
Isis, M ysteries o f . See Occult­
ism in Ancient Greece and Rome,
§§ 8-9.
I s l a m ic A r ch a n g e ls. See M os­
lem Occultism, § 2.
I slan d s o f th e B le st. The For­
tunate Islands—situated in the
Eastern Sea. They are sup­
posed to be inhabited by fairies
and the Immortals. In219 b .c .
Hsu Shih, a Taoist mystic, sailed
Jhvh
with a company of men and
women to these islands, but
was unable to land due to
adverse weather. Perhaps the
story records an attempt to
colonize the islands of Japan.
’Israfil. See Moslem Occultism,
§ 5.
J
Jaber. See Geber.
Jabril. See Moslem Occultism,
§2.
Jack-o’-Lantern. See Fairies,
§18.
Jacobs, W. W. SeeEnglish Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 18.
Jadian. Malay weretiger.
Jak and Jakni. See Indian Oc­
cultism, § 13.
James, Dr. M. R. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 18,
near end.
James, Henry. Sea English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 18.
James, K ing VI. See Literature
of Occultism, § 17.
Japanese Occultism. See Bud­
dhist Occultism, §§ 13-14.
Jasmine. See Mandrake, § 7.
Jeffries, Anne. SeeFairies, § 15.
Jessop, Dr., and ghost. See
Ghosts, § 2.
Jhvh. See M odem Occultism,
§20.
“ K ey of Solomon the K ino ”
JlGAR-KHOR
JlGAR-KHOR. See Indian Occult­
ism, § io.
Jinn. SeeFairies, § 5 ; and M os­
lem Occultism.
Jnana. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 9 -
Jochai, Simon Ben. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, §§ 1-3.
Johnson, Dr. See Alchemy, § 23.
Jones, Dr. Ernest. See Black
Magic, § 17; Devil-worship,
§ 9 ; Literature of Occultism,
§ 18 ; Vampire, the, § 15 ; and
Witchcraft, § 7.
Josephus. See Mandrake, § 8.
Judgment, T welve gods in. See
History of Occult Ideas, § 25.
Judicial Astrology. See Astro­
logy, §21.
Jung, Dr. C. G. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 14-18.
Jupiter. See Astrology, §§ 6-7.
K
Kabbalah. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 50 ; and Literature of
Occultism, §§ 1-14.
Kabbalistic conclusions. See
Literature of Occultism, §§ 6-10.
K abotermannekens. Flemish
fairies.
K aitor and Maitor. See Afos-
lem Occultism, § 12.
K alaratri. See Indian Occult­
ism, § 10.
Kali. See History o f Occult Ideas,
§§ 44-5-
K alpa. A “ Day of Brahma/'
i.e., 4,320,000,000 years.
Kami. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 13-
Karibiyun. See Moslem Occult­
ism, § 3.
Karma. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 4 ; and History of Occult Ideas,
§46.
Karma V
IP
A
K
A
. See Buddhist Oc­
cultism, § 4 ; and History of
Occult Ideas, § 46.
See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 8, 9.
IKelley, Edward. See
§ 37 ; Astrology, § 16 ; and
Black Magic, § 13.
Kelpie. See Fairies, § 9.
Kensington Vicar and ghost.
See Ghosts, § 5.
“ Key of Solomon the K ing.”
A grimoire (q.v.) supposed to
have come from the pen of King
Solomon the Wise (of Biblical
fame). The book is actually of
14th- to 15th-century origin.
The Lesser Key of Solomon the
King, or Lemegeton (of 17th-
century origin) is . in four
“ books ” : (1) Goetia, consistsof
formulae for invoking demons:
(2) Theurgia Goetia, consists of
treatises on the nature of the
spirits of the cardinal points :
(3) Pauline Art, deals with the
spirits of the hours, and those
of the signs of the zodiac (q.v.) ;
and (4) Alm add, deals with
K h n u m
miscellaneous spirits. The Les­
ser Key is claimed to be a book
of White Magic (q.v.).
Khnum. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 21.
K horan. See Koran.
Khunrath. See Alchemy, §§4,
38.
K ing James VI. See Literature
of Occultism, § 17.
K ing’s Evil. See Psycho-therapy
and Psychic Phenomena, § 7.
K ing Solomon. See Mandrake,
§ 9 ; and Moslem Occultism,
§§ 11, 20.
K ipling. See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 18 (end), 19.
K irkegrim. See Fairies, § 8.
K luski. See Spiritualism, Part
II, § 22.
K nights T emplars. See Black
M agic, § 8.
K obo. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 13-
K obold. See Fairies, § 8.
K oons. Jonathan and Nahum.
See Spiritualism, Part I, § 16.
K oran, magical verses in. See
Moslem Occultism, § 11.
K rafft-Ebing, Dr. R. von. See
Literature of Occultism, § 33.
K raus. See Spiritualism,Part II,
§ 7-
Lao Tzu
Kuan Yin. Chinese goddess of
m
ercy.
Kuei. See Chinese Occultism ;
and History o f Occult Ideas,
§§ 54~6-
K u k u l c a n . See History of Occult
Ideas, § 101.
K u n g K u n g . See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 13.
K u vera. See Indian Occultism,
§ 13-
K y o d o sh o k u . See Buddhist Oc­
cultism, § 13.
L
L a b r y s. See History o f Occult
Ideas, § 59.
L a b y r in t h . See History o f Oc­
cult Ideas, § 58.
L a m a ism . FromTibetan “ Lama"
— the superior one. TantricBud­
dhism as practised in Tibet,
Mongolia, and aroundtheHima­
layas. See Buddhist Occultism.
L a m a s. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 51-2.
L a m p of th e E lves, t h e . See
Mandrake, § 9.
L an cash ire W it c h T r ia l . See
Witchcraft, § 15.
L a n c e lo t d u L a c , S ir . See
Fairies, § 6.
L an d scape G a rd en in g (o c c u l t).
See Chinese Occultism, § 11.
Lao Tzu. See Chinese Occultism,
§ xo.
158
L a u n fa l
L a u n f a l, S ir , See Fairies, § 6.
L a va l, G illes d e. See Alchemy,
§ 33 ; and JB/acft Afagic, § 9.
L a vo isier . See Alchemy, § 11. ^
L aw es, Jo h n . See Witchcraft, I
§12.
L eft-h an d c u lt u s. See Buddhist |
Occultism, § 9.
L eig h , Ja m es. Editor of the first |
Who's Who of Spiritualism.
(Shortly to be issued by The
Francis Mott Co., Ld.)
L ei K u n g . G od of Thunder
(China).
L em eg eto n . See “ Key of Solo­
mon the K in g."
L em u r ia . A lost continent sup­
posed to have occupied the
area now covered by the Pacific
Ocean. The claims made con­
cerning it are as baseless as
those made for Atlantis (q.v.).
i
L eo, A l l a n . See Literature of
Occultism, § 29.
L eo n , R a b b i M oses B e n . See|
Literature of Occultism, § 3.
L epr ech a u n . See Fairies, § 3.
L iterature of Occultism
Lesser K ey of Solomon the
K ing. See “ Key of Solomon
the K in g "
L evi, Eliphas (Pseud.). See A l­
chemy, §§ 19, 36 ; and Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 14.
!Lewis, *M onk/ ” See English
Literature and the Occult, § 16.
“ L iber D ivinitas de Septua-
ginta.,> See Alchemy, § 23.
L ight-bearer, the. See Devil-
worship, § 2.
Lilith. See Incubus, § 2.
Lilly, William. See Astrology,
§ 16 ; and Literature of Occult­
ism, § 23.
L inga. See Buddhist Occultism,
§ i d ­
l i n g c h ih . The sacred fungus of
immortality. (Probably Poly-
porus lusidus, which grows on
the roots of trees.) Specimens
of the fungus, also wood-carv­
ings of it, are kept in Chinese
temples.
L iterature, the Occult in Eng­
lish. See English Literature
and the Occult.
LITERATURE OF OCCULTISM
§ I. ** The Kabbalah was first taught by God Himself to a select
company of angels, who formed a theosophic school in Paradise.
After the fall the angels most graciously communicated this heavenly
doctrine to the disobedient child of earth, to furnish the protoplasts
with the means of returning to their pristine nobility and felicity.
From Adam it passed over to Noah, and then to Abraham, the
friend of God, who emigrated with it to Egypt, where the patriarch
allowed a portion of this mysterious doctrine to ooze out. It was
in this way that the Egyptians obtained some knowledge of it, and
159
L iterature o f O cc u lt ism
L iterature of O cc u lt ism
the other Eastern nations could introduce it into their philosophical
systems. Moses, who was learned in all the wisdom of Egypt, was
first initiated into it in the land of his birth, but became most pro­
ficient in it during his wanderings in the wilderness, when he not
only devoted to it the leisure hours of the whole forty years, but
received lessons in it from one of the angels. By the aid of this
mysterious science the lawgiver was enabled to solve the difficulties
which arose during his management of the Israelites, in spite of the
pilgrimages, wars and frequent miseries of the nation. He covertly
laid down the principles of this secret doctrine in the first four books
of the Pentateuch, but withheld them from Deuteronomy. This
constitutes the former the man, and the latter the woman. Moses
also initiated the seventy elders into the secrets of this doctrine,
and they again transmitted them from hand to hand. Of all who
formed the unbroken line of tradition, David and Solomon were
most initiated into the Kabbalah. No one, however, dared to write
it down, till Simon ben Jochai, who lived at the time of the destruc­
tion of the second Temple '' (c. a .d . 200).
§ 2. The foregoing, according to Dr. C. D. Ginsburg {The Kabbalah,
pp. 84-5), is the claim made by the Kabbalists, concerning the
antiquity of the book. In effect, it existed before Creation, therefore
it is eminently suited to head a list of works on occultism, in which
some attention is paid to chronological order. It is a collection of
theosophical treatises purporting to solve the problems of the nature
of God, the evolution of the material universe, the creation of angels
and of man, and the ultimate destiny of matter and all life. By no
means an unambitious task. It consists of several " books/' the
most notable of which is the Zohar, a mystical commentary on the
Pentateuch. Apart from its pre-Adamite origin, had proto-historic
man devised a set of symbols to stand exclusively for numbers,
instead of employing the letters of the alphabet for the dual purpose,
the bulk of the Kabbalistic writings would not exist, because the
bed-rock of Kabbalism is the simple coincidence of letters and
numbers, from which certain vast ramifications of " mysticism"
emanate. The modem fortune-telling system called numerology is
essentially Kabbalistic.
§ 3. The great Rabbi Moses Maimonides, who declared the essence
of Judaism to be reason, not imagination, decried the Kabbalah as
a work of which Israel had cause to be ashamed; which judgment
is justified inasmuch that the work is fantastic, puerile, and even
blasphemous in places; but Kabbalists no doubt write the great
Rabbi's words in Hebrew, read the letters as numbers, perform
some arithmetical contortion, and re-reading the numbers as letters,
prove that Maimonides meant the opposite. In spite of the claims
made by supporters of Simon ben Jochai, who at most sketched an
outline of the ancient oral tradition, the work in its present form
was written in Spain in the 13th century, by Rabbi Moses ben Leon.
Prior to that period certain of the rabbis, having the oral tradition,
preached mysticism; subsequent to that time, Jew and Gentile
alike have applied Kabbalistic jugglery to alchemistic activities,
L iteratu re o f O c c u l t is m L iterature o f O c c u lt ism
astrology, geomancy, fortune-telling, divination and magic of all
kinds.
§ 4. Among important Christian students of the Kabbalah, some
attracted to it from philosophical rather than thaumaturgic motives,
may be mentioned Raymond Lully 1 (1235-1315), the celebrated
scholastic metaphysician, who was confused with a later personage
of the same name, also an alchemist. The second Lully lived in the
17th century, and the exponents of magic suggest that the first and
second are the same person ; the unnatural longevity they attribute
to the use of an elixir. The former wrote a great number of works
on alchemy, including Alchemia Magic N aturalis; D e Aquis Super
Accurtationes ; D e Secretis Medicina Magna ; and D e Conservatione
Vitce. Both Raymond Lullys had ambitions to convert Islam to
Christianity, and it is said of the first that he transmuted enough
base metal into gold to enable Edward the Confessor to mint six
million nobles.
§ 5. John Reuchlin (1455-1522), professionally a scholar in Greek
and Oriental languages, studied the Kabbalah and wrote in 1517
De Arte Cabbalistica; he was an anti-Semite who advocated the
confiscation of all Jewish literature as a means of persecution.
§ 6. John Picus de Mirándola (1463-1494), philosopher and
classical scholar, studied the Kabbalah to such good end that he
was accredited with the possession of a familiar that supplied him
with all knowledge. He is also supposed to have lived a previous
life onearth, in Babylon, where he made his first studies in Kabbalism.
Owing to the stupendous ignorance of his contemporaries, who
thought “ Kabal ” was the name of an anti-Christian writer, and
that Kabbalists were his followers, Mirándola wrote Apologia P ici
Mirándola, and so made the nature of the Kabbalah sufficiently
clear for Pope Alexander VI to grant him absolution in 1493, two
years prior to which, in his twenty-eighth year, he published
Heptaplus, a Kabbalistic exposition of Creation. In 1480 he pub­
lished Conclusiones Philosophic#, Cabalisticce et Theologic#, and in
1495 Disputationes adversus Astrologiam Divinaticam. A collected
edition of his works was brought out at Boulogne in 1496, and
another at Venice in 1498. Mirándola used the Kabbalah to prove
the wisdom of Christian doctrines: he advanced a thesis based on
Kabbalistic conclusions and offered to pay the expenses of any
scholar who would travel to Rome and dispute with him. A few
of these “ conclusions ” are :
§ 7. “ The great north wind is the fountain of all souls simply,
as other days are of some and not all.
§ 8. " Whosoever shall know the quality which is the secret of
darkness shall know why the evil demons are more hurtful in the
night than in the day.
§ 9. “ The letters of the name of the evil demon who is prince of
this world are the same as those of the nameof God—Tetragrammaton
—and he who knows how to effect their transposition can extract
one from the other."
1See also Alchemy, § 29.
l6l
L iterature of O ccu ltism L iterature of O ccu ltism
§ io. This is perfect Kabbalism. His offer to defray the expenses
of disputants was a fairly safe one.
5 ii. Mirandola's death occurred when Henry Cornelius Agrippa
von Nettesheim (1486-1535), of Cologne, was but eight years old.
Agrippa grew to be a notorious magician and had no philosophical
or theological interest in the Kabbalah. To him it was simply a
bookof magic, andthough somewriters suggest that he was influenced
by Mirandola, this claim is not supported bythe evidence of hiswork,
which consists of three books, De Occulta Philosophia, wherein he
sets forth methodically a description of the entire Kabbalistic system,
as he understood it. In the three books he gives no incantations,
but soon after his death a " fourth book " was added, in which spells
and ritual are set forth. Persons who wish to glorify Agrippa's
memory declare this addendum a forgery ; nevertheless, the style is
so close that it may more easily than not be Agrippa's work.
§ 12. Robert Fludd (1574-1637), the English alchemist, born in
Kent, wrote a great deal of matter in defence of the Rosy Cross
Brotherhood (Rosicrucians), the existence of which is to-day a
matter of great doubt ; but he was a very proficient Kabbalist. He
believed that the book contained secrets the mastery of which would
enable one to foretell future events, command Nature, compel angels
and demons alike tobend to one's will, and soperform all the miracles
recorded in both the Old and the New Testament. He contended
that by Kabbalistic learning Moses acquired the ability to perform
his signs and wonders ; that Joshua, from the same source, learned
how to cause the sun to remain stationary ; and that Elijah mastered
therefrom the secret of bringing fire down from heaven. His chief
works are Summum Bonum, quad est M agia, Cabala, Alchim ia,
Fratrum Rosea-Crucis Verorum, et scientia Creatonis explicantur (in
which he showed that Moses was a Rosicrucian), and Tractatus
Apologeticus integritatem Societatis de Rusa Cruce defendans, both
published in Leyden, 1617 ; Veritatis Proscenium, Frankfort, 1621 ;
Monochordum M undi Syhiphoniacum, Frankfort, 1622 ; and Medicina
Catholica, Frankfort, 1629.
§ 13. Henry More (1614-87), the Cambridge Platonist, also made
the acquaintance of the Kabbalah, as may be plainly seen in his
works, most important among which are : Opera Theologica, 1675 ;
Opera Philosophica, 1678 ; and Divine Dialogues, 1688.
§ 14. Kabbalistic writings continued through the centuries and
are still being perpetrated. In modem times a prodigious amount
was produced by Eliphas Levi1 (1810-75), who was known as “ the
last of the magi." The Hebraic pseudonym covered Alphonse Louis
Constant, son of a shoemaker and protégé of a parish priest. He
became a deacon of the Catholic Church, but was subsequently
unfrocked, and came into prominence through receiving a sentence
of six months' imprisonment for publishing seditious literature
(Gospel of Liberty, 1839). Some years elapsed before he blossomed
forth as a Kabbalist, and his later works include Doctrine of Transcen­
dental Magic, 1855 ; Ritual of Transcendental Magic, 1856 ; History
1See also Alchemy, §§ 19 (twice), 36.
L iteratu re of O cc u lt ism L iterature o f O c c u l t is m
o f M agic, i860 ; K ey o f the Grand Mysteries, 1861; and Fables and
Symbols, 1864. Most of his work has been translated into English
by A. E. Waite,1 a cautious and critical occultist, who has also
produced a very good work, The Doctrine and Literature o f the
Kabbalah (1902), prior to which (in 1901) his Life of Louis Claude
de Saint-M artin, the Unknown Philosopher, had appeared. Other
works of Waite's are: The Occult Sciences, 1891; and The Book
o f Black M agic and of Pacts, 1898.
§ 15. The Kabbalah is not the only source from which occultists
draw their inspiration. In 1929 Mr. Harry Price, Honorary secre­
tary of the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation,
published a Short-title Catalogue o f works on Psychical Research,
Spiritualism, M agic, Psychology, Legerdemain and other Methods of
Deception, Charlatanism, Witchcraft, and Technical Works for the
Scientific Investigation o f Alleged Abnormal Phenomena ; from circa
a .d . 1450 to a .d . 1929. This list contains in round figures about
seven thousand titles, and that is but a drop in the ocean of books
written on the subjects enumerated on the title-page.
§ 16. In 1484 Pope Innocent VIII issued his famous Bull against
witchcraft; ten years later (1494) there appeared the Malleus
Maleficarum, a large tome published in Nuremberg and written by
two inquisitors, Jacob Sprenger and Henricus Institor. The book
deals not only with witchcraft but also with lycanthropy. The
authors themselves, so they state, were constantly tormented by
demons in animal form, and not infrequently found large pins
sticking in their night-caps. They very proudly boast of the huge
number of witches they caused to be burnt, and on the whole made
so good a job of their volume that no accused person could hope to
escape if her judges had read it.
§ 17. Reginald Scott (1538-99), bom in Kent, wrote in 1584 The
Discoverie of Witchcraft, wherein the lewde dealings o f Witches and
Witchmongers is notablie detected, in sixteen books . . . whereunto is
added a Treatise upon the Nature and Substance of Spirits and Devils.
Scott gave two hundred and thirty-five authorities from whose works
he quoted—many in Latin, Greek and Arabic. Notable among his
English sources are: Bale, Fox, Sir Thomas More, John Record,
Bamabe Googe, Abraham Fleming and William Lambarde. But
Scott was not only book-learned; he had met witches at work in
the villages of Kent and, further, had attended many trials. With
typical English common sense, and pious belief in God, he set out to
show that belief in witchcraft and other forms of magic was rejected
by reason and religion, and that spirit manifestationswere dueeither
to wilful trickery on the part of the mediums, or to illusion in the
observer. His object was to stay the murderous hand of the Roman
Catholic Church, and to undermine the cruel influence of credulous
" authorities '' like Jean Bodin (1530-96), author of Demonomanie
des Sorders (Paris, 1580), and the joint authors of the above-mentioned
Malleus Maleficarum. Scott's work was most extraordinarily humane
and enlightened, and for a time had the desired effect on both clergy
1 See also Alchemy, §§ 20, 30, 36, 59.
163
L iterature of O c c u lt ism L iterature o f O c c u lt ism
and magistracy. The witchcraft epidemic, however, was not a little
leak in the dyke ; the banks of hysteria had burst, and Scott was as
powerless as Peterkin would have been in a like circumstance.
Numerous pens were raised against him and much ink spilt in defence
of credulity and wholesale murder. George Gifford, Minister of
Malden, contributed two works, namely, A Discourse of the Subtill
Practices of Devilles by Witches and Sourcers, published 1587, printed
in black letter ; and A Dialogue concerning Witches and Witchcraft.
In which is layed open how craftily the Divell deceiveth not onely the
Witch but many others, another black letter, published 1593, reprinted
1603. William Perkins, Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, in
1608 published A Discourse of the Dammed Art of Witchcraft; $0
fa n e forth as it is revealed in the Scriptures and manifest by true
experience. Another formidable opponent was no less a personage
than King James VI of Scotland, who, having already shown his
colours by writing and publishing his Demonology in 1597, further
displayed his disapproval of Scott by, on his accession to the English
Throne, ordering all copies of the Discoverie . . . to be burnt.
Other important books directed against Scott were: Censura
Librorum Apocryphorum, 1611, by John Rainolds; Guide to Grand
Jurymen, 1627, by Richard Bernard; and Philosophical Considera­
tions touching Witches and Witchcraft, 1666, by Joseph Glanvill.
Those who defended his position were : Thomas Ady in A Treatise
concerning the Nature of Witches and Witchcraft, 1656; and John
Webster, Practitioner in Physick, who published in 1677 a folio
volume with the illuminating title, The Displaying of supposed
Witchcraft wherein is affirmed that there are many sorts of deceivers and
Imposters, and Divers persons under a passive delusion of Melancholy
and Fancy. But that there is a Corporeal League made betwixt the
Devil and the Witch, Or that he sucks on the Witches body, has Carnal
Copulation, or that witches are turned into Cats, Dogst raise Tempests,
or the like, is utterly denied and disproved. Wherein also is handled,
the existence of Angels and Spirits, the truth of Apparitions, the Nature
of Astral and Sydereal Spirits, the force of Charms, and Philters;
with other abstruse matters.
§ 18. In modern times anthropologists and psychologists have
renewed the interest taken in the witch-cult, and Sir James Frazer
in The Golden Bough (3rd [complete] edn., 12 vols., Macmillan,
1907-15 ; Abridged edn., Macmillan, 1922) covers the ground very
thoroughly. Dr. R. F. Fortune in Sorcerers o f Dabu (Routledge,
x932) gives an intimate study of magic among cannibals; and
Professor B. Malinowski in Bcdoma: the spirits of the dead in the
Trobriand Islands (Royal Anthropological Institute, 1916), Argonauts
of the Western Pacific (Routledge, 1922) and Sexual Life o f Savages
(Routledge, 1929) displays amostremarkableinsight into theprimitive
mind and its relation to magic. The works of Montague Summers
may be regarded as something like curiosities of modem literature.
Aided by enormous scholarship, he has produced The History of
Witchcraft (1926J, The Geography of Witchcraft (1927), The Vampire,
H is K ith and K m , and The Vampire in Europe (both 1929), and The
L iterature of O ccultism L iterature of O ccu ltism
Werewolf (1932); all published by Messrs. Kegan Paul. In these
works he steps back into the Middle Ages and endeavours to convince
his readers that the authors of Malleus Maleficarum andDemonomanie
des Sorciers are pillars on which the Church may rest; and, since he
is both a vigorous and charming writer, he almost succeeds ; in fact,
if he could refrain from quoting saints, who may have been logicians,
but certainly were not psychologists, to back up his own arguments,
he might quite succeed. On the other hand, Dr. Ernest Jones in
his book On Nightmare (L. & V. Woolf, 1931), equipped with no less
erudition, discusses witchcraft, the vampire, the werewolf, the
incubus and succubus, from the modem psycho-analytical point of
view, and in effect says the last word in the witchcraft controversy.
§ 19. The witches, apart from their general illiteracy, were hardly
likely to contribute to the mass of writing on and around their
craft: the alchemists, however, though distasteful to the Church,
were protected by powerful patrons, hence they were free to employ
the pen as often as the alembic. The first English alchemist, Robert
of Chester (12th cent.), translated from the Arabic of Marianus, a
work entitled The Book of the Composition of Alchemie. In the next
century Roger Bacon1 (1214-94) laid the foundations of real science
and published (in 1249) his De Secretis Artis Natures. In the 15th
century George Ripley,* Canon of Bridlington, wrote The Compound
of Alchymie conteining Twelve Gates; this, printed in 1475, was
dedicated to King Edward IV. The entire work was composed in
doggerel verse. Ripley's pupil, Thomas Norton (fl. 1477), bom in
Bristol (in a fine old timbered building, still standing and now called
St. Peter's Hospital), wrote Ordinall of Alkimie in 1477, which is the
date of the manuscript in the British Museum. It was published in
Latin by Michael Maier,8 in his Tripus Aureus, Frankfort, 1618;
and subsequently (in 1652) by Elias Ashmole, in his Theatrum
Chemicum Britannicum, which also contains Thomas Chamock's
(1526-81) Breviary ofNaturall Philosophy, composedin verse, in 1557.
Chamock wrote Enigma ad Alchimiam in 1572, and A Booke of
Philosophie (1566), which he dedicated to Queen Elizabeth. The
Theatrum Chemicum . . . consists of two hundred and nine treatises,
by various authors irrespective of period or nationality. Dr. John
Dee 4is represented there, but by only a minor work, not his famous
Account of the Manner in which a certayn Copper-smith in the Land of
Moores, and a certayn Moore Transmuted Copper to Gold, which was
published in 1576.
§ 20. J. B. Van Helmont6 (1577-1644), great scientist that he
was, also believed in the transmutation of metals, and declares in
his treatise, De Vita Eterna, that he has “ seen and touched the
philosophers' stone more than once," and claims to have transmuted
mercury to gold by its aid. His collected works, entitled Ortus
Medicines, vel Opera el Opuscula, were published in Amsterdam in
1668 by his son, Franz Mercurius (1618-99), whose own literary
1 See also Alchemy, §§ 27, 51. * Also at Alchem
y, § 35.
• Also at Alchemy, §§ 4, 25, 40. 4 See also Alchem
y, § 37.
* Also at Alchemy, $§ 42, 49.
165
L iteratu re o f O c c u lt ism L iteratu re o f O c c u lt ism
productions, Cabbalah Denudata (1677) Opuscula Philosophica
(1690), consist of Kabbalism and theosophy run riot.
§ 21. John Frederick Helvetius,1 a physician of The Hague, who
wrote a treatise against the sympathetic powder of Sir Kenelm
Digby, also wrote O f a Transmutation, translated into English and
published in 1670 and reprinted many times since.
§ 22. The hermetic endeavours of the alchemists resulted in the
foundation of modem chemistry, hence it was no longer easy for men
with rational minds to delude themselves that they have succeeded
in making gold from base metal ; but that didnot prevent charlatans
coming forward frequently with new and simple methods, nor rich
fools from parting with their cash to further the great work which,
strangely enough, is still going forward. Modem alchemists talk
vaguely around the atomic theory, and of radio-activity ; their
literary efforts do not as a rule exceed the drafting of company
prospectuses ; but they do certainly make gold. In 1929 Franz
Tausend 2made £75,000, and was sentenced to only three years and
eight months—not for his gold-making abilities which were cleverly
planned within the law, but for posing as a country squire and so
misrepresenting himself.
§ 23. Astrologers have never been shy of print. To go no further
back in history than the 17th century, William Lilly (1602-81)
published, besides thirty-six prophetic almanacs (1647-82) : Collec­
tions of Prophecies (1646) ; Christian Astrology and The World's
Catastrophe, or Europe's many Mutations until 1666 (1647) ; A n
Astrologicall Prediction of the Occurrences in England for the years
1648, 1649, 1650 (i 648) ; M r. Lilly's Prognostications . . . (1667) ;
The Dangerous Condition of the United Provinces Prognosticated
(1672) ; M r. Lilly's late Prophecy come to pass concerning the present
War and the late unseasonableness of the Weather (1673) ; M r. Lilly's
Prophesie of a general Peace (1674) ; M r. Lilly's Prophecy . . . of a
Peace between the French and Dutch . . . (1675) ; Anim a Astrologia,
or a guide for Astrologers . . . , and M r. Lilly's Astrological Predictions
for 1677 * • • (1676). The foregoing are but a few of his major
works ; he also produced many penny fortune-telling books, the best
known among them being A Groat's Worth of Wit for a Penny.
§ 24. John Gadbury (1627-1704), Lilly's rival, published in 1651
Philastrogu's Knavery Epitomized,with a Vindication of M r. Culpepper,
M r. Lilly, and the rest of the Students in that noble art . . . ; in 1654,
Anim al Cornutum, or the Horn'd Beast, wherein is contained a brief
method of the grounds of Astrology ; and the first of his long series
of " Ephemerides ” appeared in 1655. The following year he issued
his Emendation of Hartgil's Astronomical Tables ; Genethlialogia, or
the Doctrine o f Nativities came out in 1658 ; and his most important
work, The Nativity o f the Late K ing Charts [sic] Astrologically and
Faithfully Performed, with reasons in Art o f the various success and
mis-fortune o f his whole life. Being (
1
occasionally) a brief History o f
our late unhappy Wars, was brought out in 1659. He also published
in the same year The K ing of Sweden's Nativity ; and in 1660, Nature
1 Also at Alchemy, §§43, 49. 1 See also Alchemy, | 52.
166
L iteratu re o f O cc u lt ism L iteratu re o f O c c u l t is m
o f Prodigies, in mockery of Lilly, who had been indicted as a cheat
before a Hicks's Hall jury. In 1661 he produced Britain's Royal
Star, or an Astrological Demonstration of England's future Felicity,
He wrote on comets, on eclipses, and in 1667 he published his Dies
Novissitnus ; or Dooms-Day not so near as dreaded, which must have
been a source of great comfort to its readers.
§ 25. Henry Coley (1633-95), Lilly's adopted son, was not a
prolific writer on astrology, but he attracted a great deal of attention
in 1669 by publishing his Clavis Astrologies Elimata, or a Key to the
whole art o f Astrology, new filed and polished. He inherited Lilly's
Almanac and continued it under the new title, M erlini Anglici
Ephemeris or Astrological Judgements for the year, according to the
method o f M r. Lilly.
§ 26. John Booker (1603-67) published in 1650 his quaintly-
rhymed Dutch Fortune-Teller, and the Bloody Irish Almanack, which
contains some important facts concerning the Irish Rebellion. The
History o f Dreams, issued under his name soon after his death, is not
considered to be from his pen.
§ 27. John Case (1660-1700) came to London at the age of fifteen
and soon made himself famous with The Wards of the Key to Helmont
proved unfit for the lock, or the Principles of M r. Wm. Bacon examined
and refuted, published 1682. His Compendium Anatomicum nova
methodo institutum appeared in 1695. In this he supports Harvey
and De Graaf concerning the generation of animals ab ovo; and
the work is so superior to the man, and the rest of his literary produc­
tions, that it is very doubtful whether he is the true author. Besides
several inferior pseudo-medical works, he wrote The Angelical Guide,
shewing men and women their loti or chance in this elementary life in
I V books. He was a notorious quack doctor, issuing handbills to
the effect that “ Case, he can do what may be done, by Either
Physick or true Astrology/' Another broadsheet stated that he
gave “ the Poor, Sick, Sore and Lame advice for nothing and doth
also, with great certainty and privacy, resolve all manner of Lawful
questions according to the Rules of Christian Astrology, and more than
fifteen years experience." Over his door appeared the inscription,
“ Within this place
Lives Doctor Case/*
§ 28. Ebenezer Sibley (d. 1800) graduated M.D. at Aberdeen in
1790, and following in the steps of Paracelsus he studied Astrology
believing that “ without this species of . . . knowledge, the medical
art is found in many cases to fail." He is the author of : Uranoscopia,
or the Pure Language of the Stars,published prior to 1787 ; A New and
Complete Illustration o f the Celestial Science o f Astrology, 1787, which
ran into twelve editions, the twelfth published in 1817; Key to
Physic and the Occult Science o f Astrology; besides several purely
medical works.
§ 29. From 1800 to 1900 a great deal was written on Astrology,
generally by persons using pseudonyms; and if their prophecies
were less imposing than those of their predecessors, they were equally
167
L iteratu re o f O c c u lt ism L iteratu re o f O cc u lt ism
daring. The 19th century ended with a brilliant astrological star at
its zenith : this was Mr. Allan Leo, whose numerous contributions to
the literature of the subject were collected and issued in 1903 by
L. N. Fowler as Astrology for AU. This opus runs into seven thick
quarto volumes.
§ 30. Religion, medicine, magic and conjuring, are four distinct
subjects, yet inseparable, for no hard-and-fast line of demarcation
can be drawn between them ; hence Mr. Harry Price, quoting from
Nature for 9 February 1929, says: “ The first necessity (for the
investigation of alleged abnormal phenomena) is a thorough know­
ledge of the art of mystification.”
§ 31. One of the outstanding figures on the border-line between
medicine and magic is Franz Anton Mesmer (1733-1815), who pub­
lished his first work, D e Planetarum Infiuxu, in 1766. His theoxy of
animal magnetism caused an enormous furore and resulted in a
veritable avalanche of literature for and against him. Dr. J.
Elliotson's Numerous Cases of Surgical Operation without P ain in
the Mesmeric Sleep (1843), and Wm. Gregory’s Letters to a Candid
Enquirer on Anim al Magnetism (1851, 4th edn., 1896), are still
regarded as standard works on the subject. A good modem short
biography is that by Richard Ince ; a larger and more recent book,
containing also a valuable bibliography, is Franz Anton M esm er:
The History o f an Idea, by L. M. Goldsmith (Arthur Barker, 1934).
§ 32. James Braid (1795-1860), a Scottish doctor, interested
himself in mesmerism so thoroughly that it came to be known as
Braidism. He invented the term “ neuro-hypnotism ” which,
stripped of its prefix, has come into general usage. His most
important works are : Satanic Agency and Mesmerism reviewed, in a
letter to the Rev. H . M cN eile, A .M ., in reply to a Sermon preached by
him (1842); Neurypnology, or the Rationale of Nervous Sleep, con­
sidered in relation to Anim al Magnetism . . . (1843); The Power of
the M in d over the B o d y : an experimental enquiry into the nature and
cause of the phenomena attributed by Baron Reichenbach and others to
a New Imponderable (1846); Observations on Trance (1850) ; M agic,
Witchcraft, Anim al Magnetism, Hypnotism, and Electro-Biology . . .
(1852).
§ 33. The famous Dr. R. von Krafft-Ebing, Professor of Psychiatry
and Nervous Diseases in the Royal University of Graz, Austria,
investigated a case of hysteria and produced A n Experimental Study
in the Domain of Hypnotism, translated into English by Dr. C. G.
Chaddock and published by Putnam in 1889.
§ 34. In 1895 Professor (then Dr.) Sigmund Freud, in collaboration
with Dr. J. Breuer, produced Studien uber Hysterie, and from thence
onward developed the psycho-analytical technique, which has a
voluminous literature of its own.
§ 35. The modem spiritualist movement began in 1848 with the
Rochester (U.S.A.) knockings, which phenomena occurred in the
Fox family. This new development rapidly assumed enormous
proportions, and many famous people took up investigation. Camille
on, the French astronomer, wrote The Unknown (1900);
168
L iteratu re o f O cc u lt ism L iterature o f O cc u lt ism
Mysterious Psychic Force (1907) ; and Haunted Houses (1924).
Sir William Crookes, the English physicist and chemist, experimented
with a medium, Florence Cook, and wrote Researches into the Pheno­
mena o f Modern Spiritualism, first published 1903 and reissued with
an appendix by Sir A. Conan Doyle in 1926. Cesare Lombroso, the
Italian anthropologist, produced After Death— What ?, translated by
Sir William S. Kennedy and published in 1909; this was followed
in 1910 by Mrs. Marson’s abridged edition.
§ 36. Since the War there has been an abundance of literature on
all branches of occultism, but the bulk of it, of course, on spiritualism.
The following are English periodicals dealing with the subject:
Anthroposophy; Atlantis Quarterly; British Journal of Psychic
Research; Bulletin of the National Laboratory of Psychic Research ;
Christian Spiritualist; God and Humanity ; Golden Dawn ; Greater
W orld; International Psychic Gazette; L ig h t; London F oru m ;
Moore*s Journ al; Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research ;
Psychic N ew s; Service; Two Worlds.
§ 37. Among modem writers on occultism, other than theosophy
and spiritualism, might be mentioned Mr. W. Y. Evans-Wentz, and
Mr. C. J. S. Thompson. The former produced The Fairy Faith in
Celtic Countries (1911) ; The Tibetan Book o f the Dead (1927),
an authoritative account of Tibetan beliefs; and M ila Raspa,
Tibet's Great Yogi (1928). The latter gives us well-documented
historical studies, among them being : Mysteries and Secrets of Magic
(1927) ; The Mystery and Romance of Astrology (1929); and The
Lure and Romance of Alchemy (1932).
§ 3«. Some books of interest which do not easily classify, in the
collection of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research, are :
Samuel Rid’s The Art of Iugling or Legerdemaine, black letter,
London, 1614 ; A Nunne's Prophesie, or, The F a ll o f Friers. Con-
tayning the downfall of the Pope, by the Unicorn of the W est; prophesied
300 years agone, and fulfilled in this present age 1615, black letter,
London, 1615 ; John Heydon’s A New Method of Rosie Crucian
Physick . . . for the cure of all Diseases, London, 1658; A Whip
for the D ev il; or, The Roman Conjuror. Discovering the Intolerable
Folly, Profaneness, & Superstition of the Papists, in Endeavouring
to Cast the Devil Out of the Bodies of M en and Women (London, 1683).
Dean Swift, under the pseudonym of Isaac Bickerstaff, issued
Predictions for the year 1708 by Isaac Bickerstaff, Esq., Written to
Prevent the People of England being Imposed upon by Vulgar Almanac
Makers, as a satire. In it he prophesied the death of a popular
quack astrologer, and did it so well that his victim was put to a
great deal of trouble to prove himself alive. He succeeded finally,
but not without making a further laughing-stock of himself by declar­
ing that he was alive all the time. Swift again in 1722 produced a
satire against the astrologers, The Wonder of all the Wonders that
Ever the World Wondered at. One of the rarest books connected
with occultism is Viscount Adare’s Experiences in Spiritualism with
M r. D . D . Home (London, 1870). This work, of which only fifty
copies were printed and issued privately to the Viscount's friends,
s.o. 169 m
L it h o m a n c y L ourdes M iracles
was subsequently withdrawn ; nevertheless the National Laboratory
Library includes a copy.
§ 39. Mr. Harry Price is the leading authority on the literature of
occultism, therefore the following magazine articles from his pen
are of great interest. “ Some Magical Rareties, Ancient and Modem
(Magazine of M agic, London, Nov. 1920) ; “ A Wonderful Book on
Playing Cards ” (ibid., May 1920); “ Mornings amongst the Cobwebs,
or Hours in a Magical Library ” (ibid., March 1921); 4
4Five Hundred
Years of Magic ” (ibid., Feb. 1921); “ My Library," in the Magic
Wand for October 1923 ; " Some Early Works on False Mediumship ”
(Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, New York,
1926) ; " The National Laboratory Library ” (British Journal of
Psychical Research, Nov.-Dee. 1927); " Some Recent Additions to
My Library ” (The Sphinx, April 1931, Kansas City, Mo.); “ Eng­
land's Strangest Library ” (John o' London's Weekly, 20 June 1931,
London, and reprinted in The Ceylon Observer, 16 December 1931);
" Strange Library. Books on Magic and Fraud" The Week,
Brisbane, 1932); and “ Some Conjuring Books of Yesterday ”
(Goldston's Magical Quarterly, Dec. 1934-Jan. 1935).
§ 40. In 1934 Mr. Price gave an exhibition of rare books and
produced a Catalogue entitled Exhibition of Rare Works from the
Research Library (University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation, Dec. 1934) ; and this year (1935) he compiled a
" Supplement " to the Short Title Catalogue . . . , published as
Bulletin I by the University of London Council.
J- F.
L it h o m a n c y . Divination by pre- L om bro so, C . See Literature of
cious stones. Occultism, § 35.
L it t l e G a llo w s M a n . See M an- L o n g , I sa a c. See Devil-worship,
drake, § 12. § 4.
L it t l e P eo ple. See Fairies, § 2. L ord o f th e Ea r t h . See History
of Occult Ideas, §§ 31-4.
L it t l e W o r l d . A sect of Free-1
masons who, in the 18th cen- L ord R u th ven . See Vampire,
tury, conspired to re-establish the, § 15.
the Stuart dynasty. The Devil
(so it is said) was their Grand L ords of th e D a y s , t h e . See
Master. History o f Occult Ideas, § 101.
L iver-eater. See Indian Occult- Louis XIV. SeeAlchemy, §§78,81.
ism, § 10.
|L o u p-garou . French form of
L iv in g P erson, A p p a r it io n o f . Werewolf (q.v.).
See Ghosts, § 8.
[ L ourdes m ir a cle s. See Psycho-
L odge, B. F. See Spiritualism, therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
Part II, § 2. § 10.
170
L o ve-A p pl e s
L ove-a p p l e s. See Mandrake, § 5.
L ucifer, cultos of. See Devil-
L ucifer, fact with.
Magic, §§ 16-18.
See Black
L ucifuge Rofocale.
Magic, § 16.
See Black |
L uck of Eden Hall.
§14-
See Fairies, 1
L ully, Raymond [also Raimon
Lull]. See Alchemy, §§ 29-35;
and Literature of Occultism, § 4.
Lunar Cult, the. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 15-16, 35.
“ Lusus Serius.” See Alchemy,
§ 40, near end.
Mandragoras
Magic Wand, origin of. See
History of Occult Ideas, § 13.
Magnus, Albertus. See Alchemy,
§
§25. 50.
Mahandranath. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 50.
Mahayana. See Buddhist Occult­
ism, §§
Maier, Michael. See Alchemy,
§§ 4, 25, 40 ; and Literature of
Occultism, § 19.
Maleficium. See Black Magic,
§ 4 ; and Witchcraft, § 7.
M alinowsky, Professor B. See
Literature o f Occultism, § 18 ;
and White Magic, §§ 13-14.
L y c a n t h r o p y . See Werewolf.
L y t t o n . See English Literature |
and the Occult, §§ 18, 20.
M
M ach eco u l, C a stle o f . See Black
Magic, § 9.
M a c h e n . See English Literature
and the Occult, § 19.
M a e t e r l in c k . See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 18.
M a g ic . See Alchemy, Black
Magic, White Magic, and Witch­
craft.
M a g ic C heeses. SeeFairies, § 16.
M a g ic Squares. See Moslem Oc­
cultism, § 13.
“ Malleus Maleficarum.” See
Literature of Occultism, § 16.
Malory. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 4.
Maltese Cross, origin of. See
History o f Occult Ideas, § 64.
IMana. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 96-7.
IMancy. Greekword-terminalhav­
ing the meaning “ prophesy.”
Some “ mancy ” words in mod­
em usage are of Greek origin
in their entirety (chiro-m., necro-
m.) ; others are of modem for­
mation on the Greek plan
(
1
crystaUo-m.).
Mandragoras. Familiar spirits
taking the form of little men.
See Mandrake.
171
M an drake M a n d r ake
THE MANDRAKE not been grown for commercial
purposes, and when gipsies and
§ i. Pedanios Dioscorides, the other superstitious folk gather
Greek physician, called “ the them, the old ritualistic method
Father of Pharmacy/' served in is employed.
Nero's army, and travelled widely § 3. The mandrake, according
in Europe and in the near East, to legend, was moulded out of
He investigated the properties of the same clay as that from which
six hundred plants and produced Adam was created. The Devil,
an illustrated manuscript, known who regards the plant with great
as “ Anicia Manuscript," now in favour, is responsible for its
the Imperial Library at Vienna, human contours, therefore it was
Between 1652 and 1655, John associated with underground de-
Goodyer translated it, and his mons and other supernatural
English version lies in the library powers ; and highly prized as
of Magdalen College, Oxford, the roots were for their magical
Dioscorides devoted a goodly properties, their unearthing was
space to Mandrake, “ since that considered a very perilous under-
the root seems to be a maker of taking. It necessitated a magi-
love-medicines." But that was cal procedure, which was usually
not the only virtue, for “ some enacted at sunset, but occasion-
do seethe the roots in wine to ally in the dead of night. First,
thrids and straining it, set it up. the earth was loosened for mech-
Using a cyathus of it for such as anical reasons, then, with the
cannot sleep or are grievously point of a two-edged sword that
pained and upon whom being cut had never drawn blood, three
or cauterized they wish to make circles were scratched around the
a not-feeling pain. Ye juice being plant. The magical significance
drank . . . doth expel upward attending the latter act was to
Phlegm and black choler,
but being too much drank
prevent the demons rising with
it the root. After these prelimin-
drives out ye life. . . . It expels aries were accomplished, the most
the menstura and ye embryo and impressive part of the ceremony
being put up ye seat for a sup- followed. A dog, generally a
pository it causeth sleep. black one, was secured to the
§ 2. The remedial properties of plant by means of a stout cord,
the mandrake are confirmed by andthemandrake-gatherer, stand-
modem chemical investigation, ing at a little distance with a
The root contains an alkaloid trumpet to his lips, threw a piece
which, belonging to the atropine of meat to the hungry, captive
group, is a narcotic and a local animal. Care was taken in aim-
anaesthetic; and the time may ing the titbit, so that it landed
come when the plant is cultivated out of the dog's reach, with the
in order to extract the drug for result that the animal's frantic
medical use. In the event of this endeavours to seize its prize
development, it is presumable that caused the root to yield. The
the roots will be lifted from the moment it showed signs of leav-
soil as unceremoniously as those ing the ground, the man made a
of beet, or the potato; but up loud shnll blast on the trumpet,
to the present, mandrakes have fortheuprootedmandrakeemitted
172
M an d r ake M an drake
a shriek that brought death to all
hearers. The blast on the trum­
pet effectually drowned the cry
of the plant, but the dog, poor
creature, whether he heard it or
not, dropped dead as though
felled with an axe, for the under­
ground demons demanded a' life
for a life, and immediately took
that of the mandrake's murderer.
§ 4. The foregoing, a general
technique, was altered and added
to throughout the ages. In the
16th century, a further precau­
tion against hearing the dreadful
cry of the stricken mandrake was
to fill the ears with cotton and
seal them with wax. The dog,
which had, by this period of his­
tory, developed an immunity to
mandrake wrath, needed to be
slaughtered at dawn on the day
following the uprooting, and
buried in the place previously
occupied by the coveted root.
The ceremony of burial was ac­
companied by incantation and
secret rites, which were often
blasphemous, the animal being
elevated into a type of saviour
who had given his life for the
community.
§ 5. The aphrodisiac properties
of the mandrake are referred to
in Genesis when Reuben, finding
sweet yellow berries, each about
the size of a small plum, took
some of them to his mother,
Leah. Rachel, Leah's sister, see­
ing the fruit, said : “ Give me,
I pray thee, of thy son's man­
drakes." After some bartering,
Leah complied with Rachel's re­
quest, with the gratifying result
that the hitherto barren woman
conceived and bore Joseph. Some
doubt has been cast upon the
identity of the mandrakes men­
tioned in the Bible story (in the
Hebrew text the berries are called
dudaim, love-apples) : first, be­
cause mandrakes were common
enough and Rachel could have
picked up as many as she desired ;
and secondly, on account of the
berries' alleged sweetness, both of
taste and smell. The mandrake
is of the order Solanacece, similar
to deadly nightshade,— and it is
far from sweet. In 1697 Henry
Maundrell wrote an essay entitled
1
4A Journey from Aleppo to Jeru­
salem at Easter," in which he re­
counts how he inquired from " the
high priest of the Samaritans at
Naplus " concerning " what sort
of a plant or fruit the dudaim or
(as we translate it) mandrakes
were which Leah gave to Rachel,"
and learned that “ they were
plants of a large leaf, bearing a
certain sort of fruit . . . of an ill
savor, and not wholesome." The
traveller saw many specimens on
his journey, and remarks : “ One
must either conclude these could
not be true mandrakes {dudaim)
or else it would puzzle a good
critick to give a reason why
Rachel should purchase such vul­
gar things. . . ." But, as An­
drew Lang has pointed out {Cus­
tom and M yth, pp. 143-4), a
potato, only if stolen, has the
virtue to keep the bearer immune
from rheumatism, so probably a
“ love-apple," only if bought, had
aphrodisiac virtue ; and regard­
ing the sweetness of “ such vulgar
thongs " : it is now recognized
that the impression of taste de­
pends upon the education of the
palate : that which was " sweet "
to Leah's son, might appear sour
to a 20th-century youth accus­
tomed to chocolate and other
modem delicacies; hence, we
may justly conclude that dudaim
is correctly rendered as mandrake,
and that the berries Reuben
173
M an d r ake M a n d r ake
gathered were indeed of the com­
mon variety indigenous to all
countries surrounding the Medi­
terranean.
§ 6. Although the aphrodisiac
and the narcotic effects of man­
drake were known in Ancient
Egypt, the origin of the super­
stition surrounding the herb be­
longs to the Early Greeks, to
whom the poisonous properties
of, for instance, belladonna, helle­
bore, hemlock and poppy were
well known ; and the herb-
gatherers, considering their occu­
pation extremely risky, took elab­
orate precautions to guard against
the vindictiveness of the disturbed
plants. One of the ill-conse­
quences to be reckoned with was
prolapsusani. Theydeemedthat,
before drawing even the least
potent of the magic roots, it was
necessary to anoint the hands and
face with oil, and during the pro­
cess of uprooting to stand care­
fully to windward ; hence, the
mandrake, " Aphrodite's plant,”
demanded the employment of the
greatest possible caution, and ulti­
mately developed into the cere­
mony in which the dog received
the inevitable death-blow from
the lurking demons.
§ 7. In Homer's Odyssey the
hero sets forth to rescue his men,
who had been changed into swine
by the machinations of Circe ; but
the god Hermes, aware that even
a hero's sword was powerless to
break the spell, gave Odysseus
” a charmed herb . . . a herb of
grace,” which the poet described
as "black at the root, but the
flower was like to milk. ‘ Moly '
the Gods call it, but it is hard for
mortal men to dig.” This re­
difficulty experienced in
” the moly of Homer ' 1
has resulted in its being regarded
as mandrake; however, subse­
quent translators and commen­
tators were sceptical of this be­
cause of the mandrake's having
a white and not a black root;
and yellow, not white flowers.
Theophrastus says 1that men dig­
ging for hellebore needed to pro­
tect themselves with garlic, which
is accredited with power to pre­
serve the bearer from sorcery,
witchcraft, and particularly from
the attack of vampires ; hence it
is not unreasonable to suppose
that garlic was employed as an
antidote also when mandrakes
were to beextracted. The ‘‘ plant
of Aphrodite ” was also the " plant
of Circe,” and it is contended that
this (mandrake) was the drug that
the sorceress gave to Odysseus's
men and so brought about the
disastrous metamorphosis ; there­
fore, wild garlic, which is called
Allium Moly, is conceivably ” the
herb of grace ” supplied by
Hermes as a counter-charm to the
goddess's enchantment. Thereis,
however, in China a sacred shrub
called Mo Li Hau, whose roots are
prized for their medicinal value;
and whose beads, made from the
twigs, are considered to be en­
dowed with sufficient magic to
keep evil demons at bay. Pro­
fessor Giles, in his Chinese-English
Dictionary, suggests that the word
Mo Li Hau (Jasmine) is connected
with Homer's moly, hence it seems
clear that ” the charmed herb,”
whether jasmine or garlic or some
other unidentified plant, was cer­
tainly not mandrake—though it
was ” hard formortalmento dig.”
§ 8. Josephus, the Jewish his­
torian, describes a herb called
” baaras ” (from the Hebrew
ba’ar, to bum), which is certainly
1Historia Plantarum, written about
230 B.C.
174
Mandrake Mandrake
none other than the mandrake. § n . The mandrake plant was
Josephus is the first to record the introduced into Britain about the
practice of employing a dog to nth century a.d., but its fame
assist in the plucking. According had gone before it. A certain
to him, the plant has the virtue Apueilus Platonicus, who flour-
of attracting demons out of the ished during the 5th century,
bodies of persons possessed. composed a botanical treatise, en-
§ 9. Ibn Beithor, the Arab herb- titled Herborium, and devoted the
alist, refers to mandrake as “ The last chapter to a very thorough
Devil’s Candle,” a title suggested exposition of the properties, both
by the plant’s glistening appear- actual and magical, of the man-
ance at night. This luminosity is drake, which, he declares,
accounted for by the presence of “ shineth at night also like a
numerous glow-worms at rest on lamp.” He further gives advice
the plant’s ample leaves. The to would-be gatherers : “ When
Moors, for the same reason, call thou seest its hands and its feet,
mandrake ” The Lamp of the then tie thou it up. Then take
Elves.” According to Ibn Bei- the other end and tie it to a dog’s
thor, sometimes styled ” the Arab neck so that the hound be hungry
Dioscorides,” King Solomon had . . .” This manuscript, which
a portion of mandrake set in his unfortunately has been damaged
famous signet ring, and by its by fire, is now in the British
power he held dominion over jinn ; Museum, but the illustration ac-
further, the learned Arab tells us companying the description is
that Alexander the Great owe^l comparatively clear, and depicts
his conquest of the East to the a dog secured by a chain to the
magical power of mandrake, and plant, which is delineated as a
that it cures numerous maladies, human being with leaves growing
including in its wide range ele- in place of hair on the head,
phantiasis and loss of memory. § 12. Additional superstition
§ 10. It seems to have been applied in Europe to the man-
from Greek sources that Pliny the drake was that it grew from the
Elder drew his knowledge of man- moisture that dropped from a
drake. In his Historia Naturalis, felon hanged, and was sometimes
in describing the plant, he states : to be found beneath the gallows.
“ There are two varieties (man- The fact that it did not always
dragora vernalis) which is gener- grow after a hanging needed to
ally thought to be male . . . and be accounted for, and this was
the black (tnandragora autumnalis) done by the invention of two sets
which is considered to be female.” of special circumstances : one,
This dual classification made a that the hanged man was inno­
strong appeal to the popular mind, cent but forced to " confession”
and spreading through the folk- by torture; the other, that the
lore of all European peoples, has miscreant was a thief bom of a
survived to this day. In Eng- family of thieves, whose mother
land, we have the Spring man- stole while he was in her womb,
drake and the Autumn woman- In either case the mandrake was
drake ; actually the former is called ” Little Gallows Man,” and
more robust than the latter, but it had to be uprooted by the con-
they are essentially identical. ventional means ona Fnday even-
175
Mandrake Mandrake
ing before sunset. As soon as it
was out of the ground it needed
to be cut free from the body of
the dog, then washed clean in red
wine ; after which it was wrapped
in a garment of either white or
red silk, and placed in a casket.
Every Friday at the evening hour
it had to be rewashed in red
wine, and provided with a new
garment at each new moon. If
these rules were carefully ob­
served, the " Little Gallows Man ”
would speak when spoken to and
answer all questions concerning
future events. Its happy pos­
sessor would henceforth have no
enemies, and never again be poor,
because a gold coin laid beside
the mandrake overnight was sure
to become doubled by the morn­
ing ; however, it was not wise to
repeat this process too often, for
possibly the “ little gallows man ”
would suffer fatigue, and might
even die. Youngest, and not
eldest sons inherited these pre­
cious possessions, but it was
necessary for a piece of bread and
a coin to be put in the dead man's
coffin and buried with him. In
default of this last office the man­
drake was deprived of its magical
virtue.
§ 13. The mandrake is still con­
sidered to be a potent charm that
can ensure pregnancy, and barren
women occasionally purchase the
roots from gipsies and pay highly
for them. If the desired condi­
tion does not ensue, it follows that
the gipsy has, by supplying a false
or forged mandrake, cheated the
customer. In the 16th century,
a Tuscan doctor named Andrea
Matthioli (whose New Herbal was
published at Prague in 1563),
when practising in Rome cured
a vagabond of an illness, and re­
ceived from him, by way of a fee,
the secret of forging mandrakes.
The process confided to the doctor
was without question known much
earlier in history, and probably it
is the method still employed.
Roots of bryony are roughly
carved into human shape, and
seed of barley or millet is attached
to both the head and the chin;
thus treated, the roots are buried
for several weeks, during which
the seed sprouts, appearing like
hair, and the knife-marks become
invisible owing to a new growth
of surface tissues; hence the
manikin, upon disinterment, gives
the impression of being a natural
formation. John Parkinson, her­
balist to Charles I, in his Theatrum
Botanicum (London, 1640), says:
“ Mandrakes and Womandrakes,
as they are foolishly so called,
which have been exposed to pub-
licke view both in ours and other
lands and countries, are utterly
deceitful, being the work of cun­
ning Knaves onely to get money
by their forgery.'' InnorthEuro­
pean countries, where mandrake,
not being indigenous, was hard to
come upon, the witches also em­
ployed bryony as a substitute.
The interest of these good ladies
was centred not so much in the
possession of a manikin as in the
use of the plant for its aphrodisiac
properties.
§ 14. In Germany false man­
drakes are called alrauns,1 and
are prized almost as highly as
true mandrake. Until quite re­
cent times it was believed that
to imprison an alraun in a bottle
resulted in its changing shape con­
stantly in a wild endeavour to
escape. A bottled-imp was con­
sidered a valuable chattel because
the creature was forced to perform
for its owner all sorts of miracles,
1 From “ Rune " —the all-wise one.
176
Manito
from gold-divining to malefidum.
However, to possess such an imp
was to invite great danger, for to
die, and have it among one's
effects, brought the Devil post­
haste to claim the soul. Robert
Louis Stevenson's story, “ The
Bottle-Imp," is based on this
theme, but whilst in folk-lore the
imp may be given away, Steven­
son introduced the idea that it
must always be sold for a smaller
figure than was paid for it. This
ensures the Devil's getting his own
at last, for there is nothing smaller
than the smallest coin in the
world, even including the humble
cowrie-shell, which is the currency
used by some primitive peoples.
§ 15. It is interesting to note
that even to-day alrauns are sold
as amulets in Germany, and the
Berlin business man is as likely
as not to have one in his waist­
coat pocket. This state of affairs,
together with the Hitlerite en­
deavour to repaganize the father-
land, makes it obvious that super­
stition, no matter howfardivorced
from reason, will never die a
natural death, but may possibly
be exterminated (with the race)
by aerial and chemical war­
fare.
Booh recommended: I
Frazer, Sir James G., “ J a c o b an d
th e M an d ra k e s ” (Proceedings of the
British Academy, V o l. V I I I , O x fo rd
U n iv e r s ity Press, 19 17 ).
Manito. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 104.
Manjusri. An IndianBodhisatva |
worshipped in China as the god
of wisdom. 1
Mannington Hall, ghost at.
See Ghosts, § 2.
Maslama al-Majriti
Manningtree Covern. See Witch­
craft, § 12.
Mano. See Indian Occultism,
§ 13-
Manu. See Indian Occultism,
§ 4 .
“ Margarita Pretiosa.” See A l­
chemy, § 30.
Margaritomancy. Divination by
pearls.
“ Margery.” See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 19; Part III, §§
41-2.
Marlowe, Christopher. See
Black Magic, § 3 ; and English
Literature and the Occult, §11.
“ Marrow of Alchemy, T he.”
See Alchemy, § 45.
Mars. See Astrology, §§ 6-7.
Mars Silvanus. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 78.
Marston. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 12.
Martian Language. A gibberish
(based on French) spoken dur­
ing trance by Hélène Smith (£
1
.
1896) and claimed by her to be
the language spoken on Mars.
See Psycho-therapy and Psychic
Phenomena.
Maruts. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
Maslama al-Majriti. See M os­
lem Occultism, § 12.
177
Mass Hysteria
Mass Hysteria. See Psychother­
apy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 21-2.
Matarisvan. See Indian Occult­
ism , §6.
Materialization. See Spiritual­
ty Part I, §§ 15, 35-41.
Mather, C otton. Set Witchcraft,
§§ 20- 21.
Ma T su Po. Taoist Queen of
Heaven, the patron goddess of
sailors, to whom they pray for
fine weather. Her attendants
are “ Fair Wind Ears” and
“ Thousand Mile Eyes.”
Matthioli, Andrea. See M a n -1
drake, § 13.
Maturin. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 16.
Maundrell, Henry. See M an­
drake, § 5.
Mayan Occult Ideas. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 99-102.
Mazikeen. See Fairies, § 18.
Mead, G. Willoughby. SeeBud- 1
dhist Occultism, § 12.
Mechnikoff, Elias or Ilya (1846- 1
1916). See Alchemy, § 71.
Medea. See Occultism in Ancient |
Greece and Rome, § 3.
Medicine and Astrology. Seel
Astrology, § 9.
M e d iu m . See Spiritualism .
Mediumistic trance. See Spirit- ^
ualism , Part III, §§
M ir an d o la
M ed m en h am M o n k s. See Devil-
worship, § 8.
“ M ed u lla A l c h im ia .” See A l­
chemy, § 35.
M ercurius, F r a n z. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 20.
M e r cu r y. See Astrology, §§ 6-7.
M e r l in . A soothsayer inArthur­
ian legend. Also used in the
titles of almanacks, as, e.g.,
Lilly's Propheticall M erline.
M esm er, F ran z A n t o n . See
Literature of Occultism, § 31 ;
and Psychotherapy and Psychic
Phenomena, § 11.
M e t em psych o sis. See Werewolf\
M et e o r m a n c y . Divination b y
meteors.
M id d le t o n . See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 13.
M ik a ’i l . See Moslem Occultism,
§ 3.
M il t o n . See English Literature
and the Occult, § 5.
M in o s. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 58.
M in o ta u r . See History of Occult
Ideas, § 58.
M iracle C ures. See Psychother­
apy and Psychic Phenomena.
M irage. See Illusion and H allu­
cination, § 5.
M ir an d o la , Jo h n P icu s d e. See
Literature o f Occultism, §§ 6-
10.
178
M itra M oslem Occultism
Mitra. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
Mo. See Chinese Occultism, § 2.
Mo Li Hau. See Mandrake, § 7.
M oly. See Mandrake, § 7.
M onaciello. See Fairies, § 17. '
M ontelius, Oscar. See History
of Occult Ideas, § 83.
Montezuma. See History of Oc­
cult Ideas, § 106.
Mookerji, Dr. Bhudeb. See A l­
chemy, § 3, note ; § 9.
Moon Mother, the. See History
of Occult Ideas, § 16.
M oore, T homas. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 7.
More, Henry. See Literature of
Occultism, § 13.
M oses, William Stainton. See
Spiritualism, Part III, § 10.
MOSLEM OCCULTISM
§ 1. The Mohammedan believes in three kinds of supernatural
beings: angels, demons, and jinn; but he is by no means sure
where to draw the line between them, for both jinn and lesser angels
can, and often do assume human shape and move among men.
The better-class angels, concerning whose pedigree there is no doubt,
spend their whole time praising Allah. Their food consists of the
repetition of the words “ Glory to Allah ! " ; their drink of “ Allah
is holy! " According to the Prophet, “ The heavens crack and
cannot but crack, for there is not a hand’s-breadth of space to be
found in them without an angel bending or prostrating himself
before Allah/' The four throne-bearers are in the form of man,
the bull, the eagle, and the lion. The first is humanity's inter­
cessor before the Lord ; the second supplicates on behalf of domestic
animals; the third for birds, and the fourth for wild beasts.
§2. There are four archangels : Jabril (Gabriel), Mika'il (Michael),
Azra'il and Tsrafil. These four will be the last to die at the end
of the world. Jabril is the messenger of revelation, and his special
function is to appear to the prophets with messages from Allah;
however, he always appears in a disguised form because he is so
awe-inspiring that mortals confronted by him would be unable to
concentrate on his words. Mohammed once entreated him to reveal
himself as he really was. This Jabril consented to do, but when
the Prophet saw his immense wings covering the whole of heaven,
he simply fainted away. Asked to make known all his power, he
informed the Prophet, “ On my two wings I bore the country of
the people of Loth, and carried it up into the air so high that its
inhabitants could no longer hear their cocks crow; then I turned
it upside down." This mighty messenger of Allah is described as
having sixteen hundred wings, and saffron-coloured hair all over
his immense form. A sun shines from between his eyes, a moon
and star peeps out from between every two hairs. He plunges into
179
M oslem Occultism M oslem Occultism
the Sea of Light three hundred and sixty times every day; and
upon his emergence, shakes from his wings a million drops which
become spiritual messengers, bearing peace and perfumes.
§ 3. Mika'il is almost as impressive; his function is to provide
food for the body, and knowledge for the mind; also, to preside
over all forces of nature. He sheds daily a thousand tears from
each eye. These precious drops become karubiyun (cherubim);
they take charge of “ every plant and every tree and every drop
of water.”
§ 4. Azra’il is the angel of death. Allah created him and kept
him hidden for some time, but at last he showed his handiwork to
the other angels and they all fell into a faint that lasted a thousand
years. He is so immense that he is everywhere at once, but for­
tunately Allah is so mighty, that this slayer is in his hand, and
cannot execute the decrees inscribed upon the “ Well Guarded Tablet
of Destiny ” without permission from Allah, who does not grant
this until a leaf with the person's name on it falls from the tree by
his throne. Azra’il has four faces but only one head, consequently
the remaining three are placed severally on his chest, back, and
feet. The first is reserved for the regard of angels and (of course)
prophets ; the second for believers ; the third for unbelievers, and
the fourth for jinn. He has seventy thousand feet, four thousand
wings, and an eye for each person that ever has or ever will be
bom into the world. When a man dies the angel of death closes
an eye, but even at the end of the world he will not be blind, for
there will be the four archangels and the four throne-bearers, so,
he will still have eight eyes. Believers are gathered in a silk cloth
perfumed with musk and transported in that manner to the heights
of heaven, and unbelievers are swathed about in tarred rag and
cast into the depths of hell.
§ 5. Tsrafil stands with trumpet to his lips and never removes
his gaze from Allah's face. He is waiting to sound the trump of
doom. The moment Allah gives him the nod of assent the first
blast, " the blast of terror ” (nafhat al-faz), will kill everything on
earth and in heaven except the four archangels and the throne-
bearers. The archangels will die one at a time, in their appointed
order : Jabril first, Azra'il last; and after forty years the angel of
death will rise and blow a second blast. Out of the bell of his
trumpet, numerous as the grains of sand that fly before the wind­
storms of lie desert through thousands of years, the souls of all
that have lived and died will fly to their bodies. This is the blast
of resurrection.
5 6. After Azra'il has done his work and a man's body lies lonely
in the tomb, listening mournfully to the retreating footsteps of his
friends, two rather unpleasant angels, Munkar and Nokir, come and
sit by his side. Suddenly they break the awful silence by asking,
“ What say you of Mohammed ? ” in a very casual and confidence-
creating manner. A dead man, left alone and cold in the dark
sepulchre, is glad of a little friendly chat, and answers truthfully.
Either he says: “ I bear witness that he is the Prophet of Allah
M oslem Occultism M oslem Occultism
and His servant/' in which case he is a true believer ; or he says:
" I do not know—I simply repeated concerning him what I heard
from the others," thus proving himself a false believer. The former
reply results in the dead man being allowed to have a peep at the
place reserved for him in paradise, and after that, is given a glimpse
of the seat in hell he has been spared, so he may rest awhile with­
out anxiety. The false believer, however, is treated to no peeps
and glimpses; instead, he is beaten with iron rods till he utters a
cry that can be heard by both men and jinn, then left to think the
matter over. Strange to say, those who die on Friday are spared
this post-mortem “ third degree."
§ 7. During life, each true believer and false believer alike is
guarded night and day by four inferior angels called hafaza; two
by day, and two by night. They change guard at sunrise and
sunset, those who have been on duty returning to headquarters
before the relief sets out, so man is left alone in the semi-light when
jinn are a-prowl. The true believer makes haste to commence the
morning or evening prayer, first, because the performance of the
ceremony keeps him safe from jinn, and secondly, in order that the
retiring guard may inform Allah that their charge has started his
pious exercises. The false believer is in very grave danger during
these hours, for 'Iblis (the Devil) and his son are always on the
look-out.
§ 8. In Islam it is not quite safe to refuse alms to any beggars,
for there is an immense throng of lesser angels, having human form,
who, assuming the disguise of wandering mendicants, go about the
world calling upon people. Such angels are in effect Allah's spies,
for they ascend to heaven with a report of the kind of treatment
they have received at the hands of each person they have visited.
It is firmly believed that these angels cannot enter a house where
there is either an image or a dog, and alas, it is sinful to keep
either.
§ 9. In spite of this proclivity of Allah's agents to go about
sneaking and prying, the Mohammedan still takes risks, and one
of them is in practising black magic and sorcery. He accounts for
the origin of the black art by referring back to antediluvian days.
In Genesis it says quite plainly, " . . . God saw that the wicked­
ness of man was great in the earth . . ." ; and it certainly must
have been flagrant, for two angels, Harut and Marut, observing it,
were surprised at Allah's gentle tolerance, and said as much to
Him. " Be more charitable—if you were exposed to the passions
that agitate men you would soon commit all their crimes," was the
benign reply. Harut and Marut regarded that as a challenge, which
they accepted, and descended to earth. All went well until a saucy
jade named Zarah in Arabic, Baiduht in Aramaic, Anahid in Per­
sian, and Venus in Greek, called upon them. Being a regular
Delilah, before she had terminated her visit she extracted the secret
password that enabled them to re-enter heaven, and making full
use of it she shines there to this day. But the two unfortunate
angels were enchained in the Well of Babel in Chaldea, and there
181
M oslem Occultism M oslem Occultism
they eternally abide ready and willing to instruct men in the
practice of magic.
§ io. Sufism is the Mohammedan system of mysticism. The sufis'
mode of existence, common enough in the East, is that of the men­
dicant friar, and their doctrine is largely based on Buddhism, with
some Christian trends. They maintain that the Prophet himself
was a sufi. They attach great importance to their dress, and more
especially to their head-gear, by which it is possible to judge the
number of worldly desires they have abandoned. It is usual for
them to carry a large stone in their belt as a symbol of hunger.
Sufism, like other forms of Oriental transcendentalism, in practice
is represented by the dancing dervishes, who, by intoning " La
ilaha ilia 'llahu " a vast number of times, with closed eyes while
they rotate in a circle, induce a rapt hysterical state in which they
perform " Miracles/' Their theory is that the greatest miracle is
to replace in themselves a worldly desire by an ascetic desire : in
practice they walk on live coals, and run through the whole gamut
of an Oriental conjurer's tricks; but even so their accomplishment
is inferior to that of the Indian yogi, who will put up a much more
impressive performance for an even smaller fee. It has been said
of the Sufi Order that it is a secret organization entertaining hopes
of conquering the world for Islam ; and again, that its aim is simply
to increase the faith of true believers; but the fact remains that
to-day, miracle-working impresses the few, not the many, and the
dervishes cannot spread Islam over Christianity by the foolish prac­
tice of " charming " snakes that have already had the venom sacs
removed. Such well-known tricks, too, in all probability fail to
increase the devoutness of the true believer ; but to him the dervish
is a merchant who deals in talismans, and who assists one in the
working of maleficium against one's enemies.
§ n . The Mohammedans' belief in talismans is drawn chiefly from
Hebrew sources and tinctured with a few invocations taken from
the Koran. Not only Harut and Marut instruct men in evil prac­
tices of this kind, but Adam's daughter, Anak, is much to blame.
This lady, so it is said, was the first “ to reduce the demons to serve
her by means of charms." Allah had given Adam a sprinkling of
magic words, just to enable him to control a few spirits, and these
words he communicated to Eve. She preserved them quite faith­
fully until Anak extracted them from her while she slept. It is
not stated how this robbery was effected; perhaps the words were
impressed in cuneiform characters on clay tablets; however, once
Anak was in possession, she "conjured evil spirits, practised the
magical art, pronounced oracles, and gave herself up openly to
impiety." King Solomon is respected for his magical powers, and
a story m the Koran represents him reviewing an army composed
of men, jinn and freak birds. We also learn that he discussed cer­
tain matters of State organization with the ant, and sent an ifrit
(i.e. species of jinn) to bring to him the Queen of Sheba complete
on her throne.
§ 12. The Arabic scholar Maslama al-Majriti (fl. 1007), a native
182
M oslem Occultism M oslem Occultism
of Madrid, travelled in the East, studied magic and wrote a book
on the construction of talismans. This is something of a classic
and is beyond the understanding of the talisman-vending dervish,
whose authority is Al-Buni, the author of works dealing with heavenly
names and magic letters, lucky numbers and propitious days. The
repetition of magic words is always essential to successful sorcery,
and the Arabic forms based on names of angels and demons are
generally spoken in doublets—for instance, Harut and Marut, Gog
and Magog, Kaitor and Maitor. The dervish memorizes an inter­
minable list of these names, together with the attributes of each.
To construct a talisman he selects the particular pair of angels or
demons that seems most suited to the case in hand, repeats the
name and fame many times in the form of an incantation, then,
writing his words on parchment or silk, sprinkles the script with
perfume, and hands it over to the applicant. It is then enclosed
in a leather case and carried on the person as a protection against
the evil eye or any other of life's innumerable ills.
§ 13. Another type of charm supplied by the dervishes is the
magic square, a device in which purely spurious nonsense is blended
with arithmetical science. By drawing parallel lines vertically and
horizontally, the major square is subdivided into a series of small
squares in each of which is written a certain number, so that addi­
tion of any column in any direction results in the same sum. Letters
are occasionally used in the columns so as to form anagrams of
magic words, hence evil demons are kept guessing and their un­
pleasant attention is distracted from the bearer.
§ 14. The human hand is often drawn on talismans because the
five fingers represent the most sacred persons in the Mohammedan
system. They are the Prophet himself; Fatima, his daughter;
Ali, her husband, and Hasan and Husain, their two sons. Generally
speaking, the portrayal of the human figure is forbidden in Islam;
a rule observed in Arabia, but almost totally ignored in Persia,
where there was a highly developed art before the new religion
came to them.
§ 15. It is also contrary to strict Mohammedan usage for verses
of the Koran to be used in Magic, nevertheless passages that con­
tain the word hifz (guard) are called ayat al-hifz, literally “ preserva­
tive verses," and are used in the preparation of amulets. The
paragraph " I seek refuge in the Lord of the Day-break, from the
hurt of what He has created ; and from the hurt of the night when
it cometh on ; and from the hurt of the witches who blow (or spit)
upon knots; and from the hurt of the envious when he envies,"
is supposed to be particularly potent in guarding the wearer from
bodily harms; and the paragraph “ I seek refuge in the Lord of
men, the King of men, the God of men, from the hurt of the
whisperer, who slinks off, who whispers evil into the heart of men,
from jinn and from men," protects the wearer from damage to his
soul. In cases of sickness, appropriate quotations from the Koran
are written on paper (or parchment), which is soaked in water long
enough for the magical properties of the words to pass their potency
183
M oslem Occultism M oslem Occultism
into the liquid, which is then given to the patient to drink. Euro­
pean physicians in Mohammedan countries find it very difficult to
persuade their patients to take prescriptions to the druggist and
swallow the medicine which they receive in exchange, for the sick
Islamite regards this as a piece of infidel addition to decent magic.
§ 16. Talismans are carried by almost all Mohammedans, but the
ihethod of wearing them varies with the nation. Turks affix them
to their arms, or wind them in their turbans; Bedouin wear them
on a cord about their necks and over their outermost garment. A
wealthy man has his amulet made from gold and hangs it on a
chain of the same precious metal; sometimes many are carried
making a rich necklace of several rows of medallions. The hurz
is a miniature book of quotations from the Koran: this, encased
in gold, is generally worn by girls. Every child when it is forty
days old is given an amulet which may be anything between a
simple shell and a very rich gem. It is always fixed beneath the
child's left arm.
§ 17. The Prophet utterly condemned sorcery : " 0 true believers,
verily, wine, and games of chance, and the worship of statues, and
divining by arrows are only an abomination of Satan's work ; avoid
them then that haply ye may prosper," is, as far as the letter is
concerned, directed against divination by arrows, a very common
Arab practice; but in the spirit it is meant to cover the entire
field. Notwithstanding this, the working of maleficium is very
prevalent. The favourite method is by use of a scorpion: the
creature is imprisoned in a glass vessel and the following incanta­
tion repeated over it seven times. “ Aryush, Sharhush; He is a
God so great that there is none beside Him. Bartima, Maltima,
Azrian. Understand and hearken to what I say, O scorpion bom
of a scorpion; otherwise will I give the fire power over thee. . . .
By the glory of God and the light of His countenance, go to [name
of enemy] and sting him in the [specified selected portion of enemy's
anatomy]." After the seventh repetition the scorpion is released
and it goes at once and does what is requested of it.
§ 18. The shadow of a man can be created a jinn and compelled
to do its owner's bidding. The ceremony must be performed on
either a Sunday or a Wednesday night. When it has grown dark
and all is still the sorcerer lights a candle and stands facing the
east with the illuminant behind him ; the result is that his shadow
is thrown large and menacing upon the wall before him. Then, in
the loneliness and silence, perhaps with a gentle draught making
the magnified shadow dance and dip, elongate and grow grotesque,
he addresses to it a lengthy invocation, conjuring it to depart to
the home of So-and-so, and smite him in such-and-such a manner.
This cantrip is repeated again and again as the candle bums away.
The wax spreads, the flame gutters, the shadow darts from side to
side, grows denser, denser—taller; then—out goes the light and
off flies the shadow I
§ 19. Another method is to draw the figure of one's enemy on a
leaf, pin it head downward on the wall, chant an incantation to it
184
M other Cult Mysteries
and stab it with a red-hot needle. As the point penetrates the
leaf and bums into the wall behind, the sorcerer says: “ Take the
sleep from his eyes. Enter his body at this place, and as this needle
enters this image! " This ensures the victim's falling sick and
remaining so, until the needle is removed from the wall.
§ 20. The jinn are a race of spirits considered to be the offspring of
fire. They have a king called Sulayman, who built the Pyramids l
Jinn may be either good or evil. They are commonly imprisoned
in brass vessels, vases, lamps, or finger-rings, and may be called
forth to do their owner's bidding. In “ The Thousand and One
Nights," a poor fisherman draws up in his net a copper vase with
a lead seal. As soon as it was opened, up rose an immensely power­
ful jinn that had been thus imprisoned by King Solomon. The
magical power of the prophet-king's seal prevented the spirit from
escaping ; but the fisherman evidently found no difficulty in break­
ing it. Solomon's seal is the hexagonal star composed of two inter­
lacing equilateral triangles enclosing the ineffable Name of God—
the tetragram YHWH (or JHVH. The Hebrew sounds are Jud
Hey Vuv Hey, hence Jehovah). This talisman represents supreme
power and mystery to Mohammedan and Hebrew alike, the latter
not daring to pronounce the Name, but, when confronted by it in
the Torah (the Law), substituting Adonai—“ The Lord." So enor­
mous is the magical power of the tetragram that even Adonai is
not uttered by children when practising the prayers and learning
the Law, Adoshem being spoken in its place.
J- F.
Book recommended:
Brown, J. P „ The Darvishes (Oxford University Press, 1927).
M other Cult, the. See History
of Occult Ideas, §§ 8-11, 12, 31,
36, 41, 44-6, 59, 60, 81.
M other Goddess, the. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 31-4.
Mountain Cave Community. See
Spiritualism, Part I, § 22.
Mura Muras. See White Magic,
§12.
Murray, Miss M. A. See Witch-
■ t, §§4, 6, 10, 14.
M urray, Sir Robert. See A l­
chemy, § 44.
M ountain Evangelist, the. See Music of the Spheres. The sup-
Psycho-therapy and Psychic Phe- posed note emitted by stars,
nomena, § 9. planets—and atoms, in motion.
Mumber. See Spiritualism, Part M yomAncy. Divination by mice.
3 34*
Munkar. See Moslem Occultism, M ysteries of Ancient Greece
§6. and Rome. See Occultism in
Ancient Greece and Rome, §§ 6,
M unnings, F. T. See Spiritual- and History of Occult Ideas,
ism, Part II, § 44. i57-80.
s.o. 185
Mystical Aspect of Alchemy O ’Casey
M ystical Aspect of Alchemy. N is.
See Alchemy, §§ 16-20.
N ixie.
See Fairies, $8.
See Fairies, §2.
Mystic K not. An endless knot
supposed to have been depicted NlYAMA. See Eight Stages of
on the breast of Visnu. It is Yoga.
a symbol of longevity.
|N jokdr. See History of Occult
M ystic Science. See Psycho- Ideas, § 81.
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 16-18. Noble Eightfold Path. See Bud­
dhist Occultism, § 5.
N
|Nokir. See M odem Occultism,
N am T ab. Assyrian plague god. § 6.
Nativity. See Astrology, § 21. “ Nollius’ Chemical K ey.” See
Alchemy, § 44.
Natural Astrology. See Astro- \
logy, § 21. Nomancy. See Onomancy.
Nature Cult. See History of Norton, T homas. See Literature
Occult Ideas, §§ 39-41. of Occultism, § 19.
Neck. See Fairies, § 9. Nu Kua. See Chinese Occultism,
, S 13-
Necromancy. See Black Magic, \
§§ 13-15 ; and History of Occult Numa. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 72. Ideas, § 74.
Neophron. Name of a man who Numerology. See Literature o f
was changed into a vulture Occultism, § 2.
(“ Metamorphoses ” of Anto-
nius Liberalis). Numina. See History of Occult
Ideas, § 74.
Neptune. See Astrology, §§ 6-8.
N ut. See History of Occult Ideas,
N erthus. See History o f Occult § 21.
Ideas, § 81.
“ New Light of Alchemy, a .”
See Alchemy, § 39.
N ewton. SeeAlchemy, § 41, end.
N ingirshu. See History of Occult |
Ideas, § 34.
Nutritional Cult, the. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, § 12.
Nymphs. See Fairies, § 17.
O
Oberon. See Fairies, §6.
N irvana.
ism, §4.
See Buddhist Occult- O’Casey, Sean. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 15.
186
Occult Ideas Occultism
Occult Ideas. See History of Don't cut your nails at a festi-
Occult Ideas. val," “ Don't put the ladle on a
bowl at a party." Divination to
Occult in English L iterature, discover the future was an import-
THE. See English Literature and any activity of this primitive re-
the Occult. ligion ; this was carried on in a
host of ways by specially trained
OCCULTISM IN ANCIENT experts; the strangest of these
GREECE AND ROME ways, to ^ at least>was the ex­
amination of the entrails of
§ i. In default of anything more slaughtered animals, known to us
definite, Occultism in the world technically as extispication, but
of ancient Greece and Rome must to our ancestors as “ bowel-pry-
be taken to cover a whole range ing," in origin Babylonian, we are
of beliefs and practices, from the told, but adopted most success-
primitive cults of Italy and Greece fully by the Etruscans. Among
through oracles, divination and other methods, which I can here
mystery religions down to the im- do no more than mention, were
ported Astrology and Magic of divination by the flight or the
the Roman Empire. Only a few cries of birds, by fire and smoke,
points can be touched on here: by omens or abnormal occur-
primitive religion with its innu- rences, by sleeping visions at
merable cults and ceremonies pro- sacred springs or shrines, by bowls
vided a sort of science of the of water, by the casting of lots
occult, directed to securing the and by the consultation of the
favour and averting the ill-will of dead. “ It does not appear,"
powers vaguely comprehendedbut writes Dr. Hálliday, “ that divina-
believed to control the processes tion by the dead played an un­
necessary to human existence and portant or prominent part in
well-being. The cults existed for Greek superstition," certainly in
the community concerned and no way comparable, we may add,
were under its control: the to that which it plays in our own.
Roman State religion is only an There are a few examples in litera-
example of centralization on a ture, the summoning up of the
large scale, with bodies of experts, spirits of the dead heroes by
pontiffs, augurs and the like, deal- Odysseus in the eleventh book of
ing with different departments of the Odyssey, the appearance of the
the system. Oracles usuallystood ghost of Darius in the Persa of
outside the civic religion, being ¿Eschylus, while there is a kind of
located at particular spots to skit on the whole business in the
which nature had given unusual dialogue of Lucian called “ Menip-
impressiveness, and there were pus, or Necromancy."
other isolated shrines, sacred § 2. If Divination is the art of
springs, entrances to the under- foretelling the future, Magic is the
world, and so on; there was tra- art of modifying and controlling
ditional lore concerning omens, it. The two things, while logic-
lucky or unlucky days, social and ally distinct, are in practice con-
religious taboos such as we read fused, for, to quote Dr. Halliday
of in Hesiod's Works and D a y s: again, “ the inquirer desires to
" Pray before crossing a stream," know what the future has in store,
187
Occultism Occultism
in order that he may turn it to
account, make sure of the good
things, or in case of necessity
cheat the Devil/' Magic falis
within the scope of this essay so
far as its effect is due to a mys­
terious or non-natural power
thought to be inherent either in
individuals or things. This is the
case with all the magic of the
primitive cults ; in Methana, for
instance, they used this device for
averting the storm-winds that
spoilt their vines: two men ran
round the vines in different direc­
tions, starting from the same
point and each carrying half of a
white cock that had been cut in
two ; when they met again at the
starting-point they buried the
cock. Here the magic potency
resides in the white colour of the
bird, which is supposed to absorb
the blackness of the storm and
through burial to take away its
harmfulness. Again, at the Thes-
mophoria at Athens pigs were let
down into clefts or chasms, where
they were left to rot, and after a
year's interval brought up again
and placed on altars, where the
flesh was mixed with seed to be
used as a fertility charm. In
many cases deities such as Hecate
or Pluto are invoked at the per­
formance of rites, but this does
not appear to be essential to
magic ; there must, however, be
belief in some power, either in­
herent or external.
§ 3, While magicians, strictly
speaking, are not necessary for
the performance of magic, the
necessary thing being the use of
the proper means, either the say­
ing or the doing of certain things,
or both, it is easy to understand
that such practices would fall into
the hands of experts. Hence the
presence in Greek myth of the
188
great enchantresses, Circe and
Medea, who, it may be pertinent
to notice, belonged to the same
family, Medea being Circe's niece ;
all are familiar with Medea's spells
and herbs, and with Circe's wand.
To come to historical times, the
girl Simaetha in Theocritus' second
Idyll uses incantations, the burn­
ing of bay-leaves, the whirling of
a rhomb and the melting of a wax
image to bring her lover back to
her: "as this puppet melts for
me before Hecate, so may Delphis
as speedily melt with love, and as
this brazen rhomb turns by grace
of Aphrodite, so may Delphis turn
again before my threshold." Or
still later, in Apuleius' tale the
witch Pamphile uses certain oint­
ments to turn herself into an owl,
and of course all who have read
it will remember how Fotis, the
pretty serving-maid of Pamphile,
gave her lover Lucius the wrong
ointment and he became an ass
—a lesson to those who would
meddle with the occult. Apuleius
himself was suspected of magic
practices and actually put on
trial; we still have the speech
he made in his defence, and it is
amusing to note that the accuser
viewed with grave suspicion a box
of ointment Apuleius had sent
him, though the defendant says
it contained nothing more harm­
ful than a dentifrice.
The case of Simaetha shows that
private persons could practise
magic, and as early as the 4th
century b.c. Plato in the Laws
(XI 933) urges that the State
should make enactments against
any man who tries to slay or in­
jure by magic; he is not quite
certain whether there is an
in witchcraft or not, but* he is
clear that such practices should
be stamped out if possible; ac-
Occultism
cordingly, anyone who injures
either by magical bindings or in­
ductions or incantations is to die.
§ 4. To the Greeks Colchis and
Thessaly were the great homes of
witchcraft, and Latin poetry takes
over the convention, though we
sometimes hear of Marsian spells
and of witches haunting the hills
of central Italy. In Horace we
have real witches with streaming,
snake-bound hair using various in­
gredients to make a love-philtre :
Canidia, Sagana, Veia and Folia
make a hole in the ground inwhich
to bury a boy up to the neck ;
when he has perished of slow star­
vation his marrow and liver are
to be removed to add to the grisly
mixture, leaves of the cypress and
the fig, eggs and feathers of an
owl smeared with toad's blood,
Thessalianand Iberian, that isCol-
chian, herbs, and bones snatched
from a ravening bitch. In Lucan,
too, there is a long description of
necromantic rites conducted by a
Thessalian enchantress, Erichtho.
Under the Empire, indeed, magic
had a tremendous vogue, particu­
larly in the North African pro­
vinces, where the influence of
Egypt was most felt. Egypt is
perhaps the greatest ancient cen­
tre of witchcraft, though it is not
until Roman times that we find
it exercising its influence on the
Graeco-Romanworld. Manymagic
formulas have been preserved, full
of strange names and weird jargon
of languages, Greek, Hebrew and
Egyptian apparently, but often a
meaningless jumble of syllables.
They are fitted for use on particu­
lar occasions, with insertion of
names as required, for purposes
amatory, medicinal, harmful or
the reverse, and frequently writ­
ten on leaden tablets, which were
pierced with a nail to symbolize
Occultism
certainty or else " posted ” to the
powers below by being dropped
into some convenient sepulchre.
One or two examples may be
given:
(i) From the amphitheatre at
Carthage (c. 200 a .d .), written
over the picture of Typhon-Seth,
the evil demon of magic, holding a
spear and a thunderbolt: ‘'Slay,
exterminate, wound Gallicus son
of Prima in this hour in the ring
of the amphitheatre . . . bind his
feet, his limbs, his senses, his in­
ward parts. Bind Gallicus son of
Prima that he slay nor bear nor
bull with one stroke, nor slay with
two strokes, nor slay bear or bull
with three strokes. In the name
of the living omnipotent God per­
form this. Now ! Now ! Quickly !
Quickly ! Let the bear crush and
wound him! ”
(ii) From Cyprus : a tablet that
is full of what Lucian calls “ bar­
baric, senseless, many-syllabled
names ” (Menippus, 9): “ Deities
that are beneath the earth . . .
take away from Krateros the
fierceness that he hath against me
Kallias and the wrath, and rob
him of his power and might and
make him weak and voiceless and
breathless . . . I conjure you by
thegreat godsMasomasimablaboio
Eumazo . . . take Krateros and
deliver him to the doorkeeper of
Hades Mathyruphramenon. . . .
I conjure the gods from Kronos
onward Ablanathanalba Sisope-
tron take Krateros the adversary
of me Kallias ” (much abbrevi­
ated).
§ 5. While this kind of magic
came from Egypt, astrology was
an importation from Babylonia.
Many attempts, all of them vain,
were made to suppressit; Juvenal
ridicules the hold it had over the
women of Rome, who keep their
Occultism Occultism
well-thumbed manuals by them ;
both Tiberius and Otho among the
Emperors listened to the predic­
tions of astrologers.
§ 6. I propose finally to speak
of the Greek Mysteries, for these
undoubtedly originated in rites
of primitive magic, and in the
course of time acquired, perhaps
possessed from the beginning, an
element of secrecy which gave
them their particular name of
“ mysteries/' things that may not
be spoken of. Of the various
rites so called the Eleusinian were
celebrated at the beginning of
October, and originally consisted
of ceremonies that try to influence
the fertility of the fields by imita­
tive magic ; as the Greek mind
became purified of its primitive
superstition and capable of deeper
reflection on the mysteries of life
and death, the rites came to sym­
bolize the passage from this life
to that of the world to come. The
votaries first received instruction
from a mystagogos, then on the
15th of the month Boedromion
the festival began with the words
“ Mystae, to the sea ! ” uttered by
the King Archon from the steps
of the Stoa Poikile at Athens.
The votaries bathed in the sea
with a pig, which was subse­
quently offered to Demeter, and
two days later a procession started
from Athens to Eleusis, arriving
in the evening by torchlight. The
rites lasted from sunset to sunset
of the 22nd and 23rd ; first came
a dramatic representation of the
legend of Demeter and Kore, then
the partaking of the Kukeon, a
mixture of mint and barleymead,
the touching of sacred objects and
repeating a sacred formula " I
have fasted, I have tasted and
taken from the box "; finally
came the climax of the festival :
a ritual marriage between the
Hierophant and the chief priestess
of Demeter, accompanied by more
formulas, " I have eaten from the
timbrel, I have drunk from the
cymbal, I have carried the fan, I
have entered the bridal-chamber/*
and the announcement of the
birth of a sacred child. At some
moment in the ceremonies the
scene was plunged in darkness,
which was followed by a brilliant
light in which was revealed the
blessed state of the initiated in
the world to come.
§ 7. The Orphic Mysteries are
contrasted with the Eleusinian in
various ways: the Eleusinian
could only be performed at Eleu­
sis, but the Orphic wherever there
was an Orphic community; the
Orphic mysteries are the result of
a conscious reforming movement
within the religion of Dionysus,
due to a possibly historical Or­
pheus ; there was definite teach­
ing, moral, cosmological and es­
chatological associated with them,
and they stood outside the ordi­
nary State religion. We must
imagine an originally wild and
orgiastic cult, whose votaries in
an ecstasy of intoxication tore
animals to pieces and drank their
blood, reformed and tranquillized
by Orphic influence ; the uncon­
trolled emotionalism of Thrace
and Phrygia sobered by Greek
moderation into a regular process
of initiation, instruction in the
divine origin of the worshipper,
and finally communion; in this
latter rite raw flesh was eaten,
representing the old myth of
Zagreus, who was tom to pieces
by the Titans and reborn as Dio­
nysus, and symbolizing the re­
birth of the human sold after its
temporary death in the tomb of
theJx>dy; when the worshipper
Occultism Occultism
came to die, his body was pro- heaven, the salubrious breezes of
vided with small plates of gold the ocean and the anguished silent
inscribed with formulas and direc- realms of the shades below; whose
tions for use in the next world, one sole divinity the whole earth
Some of the formulas of ritual and venerates under manifold form,
burial are extremely beautiful, for with different rites and under a
instance: " I have passedbeneath variety of appellations ; hence the
the bosom/' signifying adoption Phrygians, that primeval race,
by the family of gods; “ I have call me Pessinuntica, the Mother
flown out of the sorrowful wheel/1 of the gods ; the aborigines of
referring to the Orphic belief in a Attica, Cecropian Minerva ; the
wheel or cycle of becoming; " I Cyprians in their sea-girt isle,
have passed with swift feet to the Paphian Venus ; the arrow-bear-
crown desired," and this quaint ing Cretans, Diana Dictynna ; the
one, " A kid I have fallen into three-tongued Sicilians, Stygian
milk," which possibly refers to the Proserpine ; and the Eleusinians,
boiling inmilk of Zagreus, who was the ancient goddess Ceres. Some
perhaps slain as a lad, the phrase call me Juno, others Bellona,
thus signifying rebirth ; but this is others Hecate and others Rham-
very uncertain, as alsois the ques- nusia. But those who are illu-
tion whether there was any ritual minated by the earliest rays of
corresponding to these formulas, that divinity the Sun when he
§8. The mysteries of Isis and rises, the ^Ethiopians, the Arii
Osiris were originally the rites of and the Egyptians, so skilled in
a spring festival: Osiris, like ancient learning, call me by my
Adonis, is the personification of true name, Queen Isis." When
the vegetation spirit that dies, is Lucius has beenrestored to human
buried and is bom again. There form, he is initiated into the mys-
are also features that recall the teries of Isis; after ceremonial
Orphic rites : a dramatic repre- washing and abstaining from flesh
sentation of the scattering of the and wine and luxurious food for
fragments of Osiris, when he has ten days " the priest," he tells us,
been tom in pieces by Typhon, of “ taking me by the hand brought
their collection by Isis and his re- me into the inner recesses of the
birth as Apis, the sacred bull, sanctuary, clothed in a new linen
Isis, wrongly identified by the garment. . . . I approached the
Greeks with Io, is rather to be confines of death, and having trod
comparedwithDemeter, the Earth on the threshold of Proserpine I
mother, but in Apuleius she ap- returned therefrom, being borne
pears as uniting in herself almost through all the elements. At mid-
all the aspects of female divinity night I saw the sun shining with
that we know. "Behold me," itsbrilliant light, and I approached
she says when she appears to the presence of the gods beneath
Lucius, " who am Nature, the and the gods of heaven and stood
parent of all things, the mistress near and worshipped them." It
of all the elements, the primordial is clear, indeed Lucius says as
offspring of time, the supreme much, that these words are only
among divinities, the queen of for the profane ; of the reality he
departed spirits; who govern by is forbidden to speak. The next
my nod the luminous heights of morning he undergoes a sort of
191
Oliphant
Oceanides
E
ublic manifestation orepiphany:
e ascended a wooden pulpit,
wearing a linen garment elegantly
coloured and a robe embroidered
with a variety of animals, Indian
serpents and Hyperborean griffins
and carrying a torch in his right
hand; “ a graceful chaplet en­
circled my head, the shiningleaves
of the palm-tree projecting from
it like rays of light. Thus arrayed
like the sun and placed so as to
resemble a statue, on a sudden,
the curtains being drawn aside, I
was exposed to the gaze of the
multitude.”
§ 9. The idea which lies at the
heart of all the Mysteries is that
of regeneration, of being born
anew ; its great symbol at Eleusis
is the change from darkness into
light. In Orphism the idea is
connected with purification ; and
thus it inspires the Platonic con­
ception of the mystic progress of
the soul, throwing off the entan­
gling associations of the body till
it cancontemplate the things that
be eternal, the Essential Forms.
The cult of Isis attracted no minds
as mighty as those of Aeschylus
and Plato, but it drew thousands
of votaries and must have an­
swered to some need of their souls.
Here we may perhaps find the
secret in the figure of Isis herself,
for she is the bringer of conso­
lation and hope, the universal
Mother in whom the soul is re­
born, the powerful and all-glorious
Goddess of the worldbelow. "Be­
hold then, commiserating your
calamities I am come to aid you,
favouring and propitious am I
come. Away, then, with tears;
leave your lamentations, cast off
all sorrow. Soon through my
E
rovidence shall the day of de-
verance shine upon you. . . .
Under my protection you will live
happy, you will live glorious : and
when having passed through the
allotted period of your life you
shall descend to the realms be­
neath, there also dwelling in the
Elysian fields you shall frequently
adore me and shall see me shining
amid the darkness of Acheron and
reigning in the Stygian realms."
J . H . M o z l e y .
Books recommended:
Halliday, W. R., Greek Divination
(Macmillan, 1913).
Glover, T. R., The Conflict of R eli­
gions in the Early Roman Empire
(Methuen 1923).
Lowe, J. E., Magic in Greek and
Latin Literature (Blackwell, 1929.)
Oceanides. See Fairies, § 17.
Od. An all-penetrating psychic
force which Baron Reichenbach
thought he had discovered. See
also Alchemy, § 19.
“ Odyssey, the.” See Mandrake,
§7.
Ogre. A man-eating giant.
Ointment, Witches’. See Were­
wolf, § 2 ; and Witchcraft, § 5.
Oldenburg H orn. See Fairies,
§ *3 *
Oliphant, Laurence (1829-88).
His tendency to eccentricity
was sharpened by association
with that " backwoods Mes­
siah ” of America, Thomas Lake
Harris, who “ did ” him shame­
fully. Occultism notably in­
forms Sympneumata, 1885, and
that remarkable novel, Altiora
Peto, 1883. See especially Mr.
Michael Sadleir’s edition of his
satirical novel, Piccadilly.
192
Om
Om (or Aum). The holy word of
the Hindus. It always pre­
fixes an invocation.
Oneiromancy. Divination by
dreams.
Onomancy. Divination by the
letters forming the name of the
person. Also, Nomancy.
Onychomancy. Divination by
finger-nails reflecting the sun's
rays.
Ophiomancy. Divination by the
movements of fishes.
Oracles, ancient Greek. See
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 69-
72 ; and Occultism in Ancient
Greece and Rome.
Oreads. See Fairies, § 17.
Orfeo, K ing. See Fairies, § 6.
Orniscopy. Divination by the
flight of birds. Also, Omitho-
mancy.
Orpeus. See Orfeo.
Orphic M ysteries. See Occult­
ism in Ancient Greece and Rome,
Osborne, M rs. L eonard. See
Spiritualism, Part II, § 46.
Osnus. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 21-2, 28, 41.
Osnus, M ysteries of. See Oc­
cultism in Ancient Greece and
Rome, § 8.
:OssiAN.” See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 9.
Paracelsus
Ossowiecki, Stefan. See Spirit­
ualism, Part III, § 28.
Osty, D r. E. See Spiritualism,
Part II, §§ 15-16.
Pagoda. Of Indian origin, a
" Relic Preserver." Used in
China in the art of geomancy
(see Chinese Occultism). They
are circular or octagonal, and
either seven or nine stories
high. Seven for the seven
Buddhas : nine for the " ninth
incarnation of Visnu,” i.e.,
The Buddha. The porcelain
tower of Nankin was built by
Yung Lo (1403-25) ; it cost
£200,000 and was destroyed by
rebels in 1856.
Palladino. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 2.
Palmistry. See White Magic,
§ 5.
Paneth, Professor. See Alchemy,
§ 14, note.
P‘A
NKu. The Great Architect of
the universe. Represented in
Chinese art as a powerfully-
built man busied with hammer
and chisel on great blocks of
stone. He is also the Chinese
Adam.
Paole, Arnold. See Vampire,
the, § 8 .
PAO P‘U Tzu. See Alchemy, § 2.
Papyrus of An i. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 24-30.
Paracelsus. See Alchemy, §§ 20,
36, 38, 59»64 i and Astrology,
193
Paramnesia Piper
§ 15. [A useful book is: Life English Literature and the Occult,
of Paracelsus (1915), by A. M. § 7.
Stoddart.]
|Perrins» William. See Litera-
Paramnesia. See Psycho-therapy ture of Occultism, § 17.
and Psychic Phenomena, § 20.
| Perry, D r. W. J. See History of
Parisistas. See Indian Occult- Occult Ideas, §§ 7, 21, 23.
ism, § 8.
|P essom ancy. Divination by
Parjanya. See Indian Occultism, pebbles.
§6.
IPfeiffe. Another name of Solo-
Parkinson, John. Set Mandrake, mon Trismosinus, a mediaeval
§ 13. adept in alchemy.
Parris, Rev. Samuel. See Witch- Phantom Sh ip. SeeFlyingDutch-
craft, § 22. man.
Parr, T homas. See Alchemy, Phantom T axi-Cab. See Ghosts,
§ 75- § 5-
Partridge, Eric. See White Philo of Alexandria. See H is-
Magic, § 4. tory of Occult Ideas, § 90.
Patanjali. See History of Occult Philosophers’ Stone. See A l-
Ideas, § 50. chemy, §§ 3, 14, 19, 20, 25, 27,
32, 37 (near end), 39, 41 (end),
Peacock. See English Literature 42, 43, 44, 59, 63.
and the Occult, § 16.
| “ Philosophie N aturelle des
Pedanios Dioscorides. See M an- M£taux, la.” See Alchemy,
drake, §1. § 34.
Pegomancy. Divination by foun- “ Phinuit.” See Spiritualism,
tains. Part III, § 4.
Pelham, Geo. See Spiritualism, Pien Ch ‘iao. See Chinese Oc-
Part III, § 12. cultism, § 10.
Pendle Covern. See Witchcraft, Pien fu. Chinese term including
§ 15. all bats. It is believed that to
eat a bat that has lived 1,000
Penn, William. See Witchcraft, years will ensure longevity.
§12.
|Pigwidgeon. A fairy knight
Periodicals [on Occultism]. See favoured by Queen Mab.
Literature o f Occultism, § 36.
|Piper, Mrs. See Spiritualism,
Peris. See Fairies, § 4 ; and Part III, § 4.
194
PiRTHrsrc
Pirthivi. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
Pisagas. See Indian Occultism,
§ 7-
Pixie. See Fairies, § 2.
Planchette. Named from its in­
ventor (1853). A small board
on wheels, carrying a pencil and
used by mediums (and others
in lighter vein) for " spirit"
writing.
Planet of Death. A supposed
sphere where departed souls,
too bad for further reincarna­
tion, are destroyed.
Planets. See Astrology, §§ 6-8 ;
and History of Occult Ideas, § 42.
Platonicus, Apuleius. See M an­
drake, § 11.
Pliny. See Alchemy, § 66 ; and
Mandrake, § 10.
Pluto. See Astrology, § 8.
P‘o. See Chinese Occultism, § 1.
Poe. See English Literature and
the Occult, §§ 17, 18, near end.
Pointing the Bone. See Black
Magic, § 1.
Polidori, Dr. William. See Vam ­
pire, the, § 15.
Polo, M arco, M affeo, and
N icolo. See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 1.
Poltergeist. See Ghosts, § 13;
and Spiritualism, Part II, §§ 48-
52.
Preservative Verses
Polymastia. See Witchcraft, § 9.
Polythelia. See Witchcraft, § 9.
Possession by Demons. See White
Magic, § 8.
Post-hypnotic Obedience. See
Psycho-therapy and Psychic Phe­
nomena, § 2.
Potato charm. SeeMandrake, §5.
Powder of Projection. See A l­
chemy, § 19.
“ Practica.” See Alchemy, § 32.
Pranayama. See Eight Stages of
Yoga.
Pratyahara. See Eight Stages of
Yoga.
Praying-mantis {mantis religiosa).
An insect in the grasshopper
family. The females devour
the males after copulation (as
some spiders), and are con­
sidered to personify greed. The
Chinese believe that the acci­
dental stopping of a cart is
brought about by the mantis,
who wishes to find out if the
vehicle contains anything good
to eat.
Pre-Dynastic G raves [Egypt].
See History of Occult Ideas,
M i -
Pregnancy Rites. See White
Magic, §§ 13-15.
Prehistoric Man, occult ideas
of. See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 2-7.
Preservative Verses. See M os­
lem Occultism, § 15.
195
Psycho-T herapy
Prest
Prest, T homas Preskett. See Psephomancy. Divination by
Vampire, the, §§ 1-3, 7. pebbles drawn from a heap.
Price, H arry. Honorary Secre­
tary of the University of Lon­
don Council for Psychical Re­
search. Inventor of numerous
devices for detecting fraud on
the part of spirit mediums:
collector of books on occultism,
magic, conjuring, etc. Author
of many works on these and
their subject matter. See also
Literature of Occultism, §§15,39,
40 ; and Spiritualism, Part II.
Price, D r. James. See Alchemy, |
§ 47-
Priestley, scientist. See A l-\
chemy, §11.
Prophetic Visions. See Illusion |
and Hallucination, § 8.
Proxy ” sittings. See Spirit­
ualism, Part III, § 26.
Psychical Investigation, Socie­
ties for. See Societies.
Psychic Factors. See Spiritual­
ism , Part III, § 47.
Psychic Phenomena. See Spirit-
Psychic Sponge. See Vampire,
the, § 7.
Psycho-galvanic Reflex. See
Spiritualism, Part III, §§ 7-8.
Psychographs. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 41.
Psychomancy. Divination by
ghosts.
Psychometry. A form of clair­
voyance enabling people to give
an object's history, simply by
holding it in their hands.
PSYCHO-THERAPY AND PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
§ 1. The unconscious mind is a receptacle beneath the surface of
all that we think and know and feel. It is the psychic boiler which
generates the life force. The energy it contains is dangerous and
destructive, but, bound and controlled in the machinery of the normal
conscious mind, it becomes held in check and turned to good account.
Leibnitz, writing in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, had his
conception of an unconscious background out of which mental
activities grow. To Schopenhauer the world was Will. Brain to
him meant just the will to think and know ; his Will may be equated
to the unconscious mind. Eduard von Hartmann's magnum opus
is entitled Philosophy of the Unconscious. In it he suggested that
the selection of a thought-sequence has already taken place before
its emergence into consciousness. Freud is thus in direct descent
from the philosophers; he has not “ invented ” the unconscious,
he has simply elevated it to the status of an " organ " that can be
subjected to treatment in many cases of mental disease.
§ 2. The latest developments in scientific psycho-therapeutics are
the outcome of a long series of experimental studies in hypnotism.
During hypnosis, the subject is put in a state of somnambulism by
196
P sy c h o - T h er a py P sy c h o - T h er a py
the operator; consciousness is suspended, and suggestion made
meanwhile will be accepted and acted upon. A touch on the bare
flesh with the finger, together with the remark, " This is hot iron.
You are burnt," will result in a blister developing at the place, and,
which is even more surprising, a scar will be left. Thus it is possible
to brand a person with a cold instrument; and herein is to be found
the key to stigmata miracles. More startling still is the phenomenon
of " post-hypnotic obedience." A subject put into hypnotic rapport
will receive a suggestion to perform some feat the following day,
and no matter how ridiculous the instruction, it will be carried out
to the letter. For instance, the injunction, "You will enter this
room at three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, raise your umbrella,
and walk round three times," will result in the performance of this
stupid exercise, in spite of difficulties being put in the way; and,
upon interrogation, the subject will give a rational explanation of
his conduct, and remain absolutely ignorant of the fact that his will­
power has been temporarily suspended. Auto-hypnosis differs in
no essential from hetero-hypnosis. The subject, from one cause or
another,—such as performing a monotonous manual exercise,1
listening to a clock ticking, or gazing fixedly at any shining object,
a brass door-knob, or glass or crystal ball,— enters a dream-state in
which he projects part of the content of his unconscious mind into
his sensori-motor field, with the result that he may experience
vivid hallucinations, or become motorially inco-ordinate. Hypnosis
is artificial hysteria. Persons suffering from real hysteria are
perpetually in a dissociated state, and are prone to periodic violent
attacks. It is a form of dramatized expression rising from the
unconscious, and " shouting down " the calm, sane exterior. Some
hysterical attacks are almost indistinguishable from epileptic fits,
and very often paralysis, contractures, anaesthesias, blindness, deaf­
ness, speechlessness, and involuntary twitching of the face and limbs,
are not due to damaged nerve-tissues, but are the somatic expression
of psychic disturbances. The general term employed to describe
these pathological states is "conversion hysteria," and, which is
important from the point of view of an inquiry into occultism, all
phases of conversion hysteria may be affected by either auto- or
hetero-suggestion. With this medical fact kept in view, an investiga­
tion of some ancient and modem miracle cures will prove instructive.
§ 3. As such cures are frequently achieved by saintly persons, it
might be well, first of all, to examine a saint; and the most useful
for our purpose is St. Simeon Stylites. Hearing, at about the age
of thirteen, the words " Blessed are those who weep " pronounced
in church, he betook himself to the desert where he remained seven
days without food or drink, weeping and praying the whole time.
His next saintly penitential exploit was to tie a rope of palm fibre
round his body and draw the knots so tight that the girdle cut into
his flesh and a putrefying wound formed, the fetid odour of which
horrified all who came near him. Finally the rope was cut from
him, the merciful release causing him intense agony. After three
1 See Illusion and Hallucination.
197
P sy c h o - T h er a py P sy c h o - T h er a py
years in a monastery he retired to a cave where his fasting brought
him to the point of death. One Easter Day a priest visiting him
found him in a state of collapse, but upon receiving the sacrament
he made a " miraculous ” recovery. The sacrament in those days
was, of course, not a wafer but a hunk of bread. Whether the saint
objected to being saved, the records do not tell; however, soon
after this experience he retired farther from the haunts of men to
a mountain where he built a stone wall around himself and attached
a chain to his foot. This bold bid for isolation failed miserably,
for crowds (motivated no doubt by the same urge that sent sightseers
into the lunatic asylums in our own country not very long ago)
flocked to see the holy man. To escape from them he built a column
four feet high, on top of which he lived, engaged in prayer, for four
years. The populace still refused to leave him alone, so he raised
his column to the height of eighteen feet, and at last, in desperation,
no doubt, he elevated himself sixty feet, an eminence at which he
was at least safe from the inquisitive gaze of the throng. The top
of this latest column was four feet in diameter, and was surrounded
by a low wall; residing within this space he could never lie down,
and there he remained till his death at the age of sixty-nine. During
his last years he punished himself further by standing always with
one foot raised, and so developed a varicose ulcer, on which he
carefully replaced all the maggots that fell from it to the ground,
saying “ Go—feed upon that which God hath given thee.”
§ 4. There were many sceptics who regarded him as an impostor
motivated by vanity and pride, an opinion which caused the Church
authorities to inquire into his state. They decided that if his was
a religious vocation, he would descend at the bidding of a church
dignitary, but if his mode of existence was a demonstration of pride,
he would refuse ; in which case, he would have to be brought down
by force, and his column destroyed. Upon receiving the command
St. Simeon Stylites gave every sign of being about to descend, so
he was allowed to remain exalted.
§ 5. No doubt St. Simeon was a virtuous man, but to-day virtue
expressed so enthusiastically would invite the attention of an alienist,
whose diagnosis would no doubt reveal that he was catatonic, with
exaggerated self-esteem, aversion to food, and a tendency to auto-
mutilation. There might even be added coprophilia, that is, love
of dirt. His pious obedience when commanded to descend from the
column adds weight to the diagnosis, for catatonic subjects are very
suggestible, just as hypnotized patients are ; therefore his mechanical
submissiveness, accepted at the time as proof of his saintliness,
would be recognized to-day as confirmation of his insanity. In fact,
the Church authorities themselves would find it difficult to defend
the conduct of a modem St. Simeon in the face of public opinion,
especially if he chose for his residence the Monument or Nelson's
Column.
§ 6. There are other saints, less repellent and more socially useful
than St. Simeon Stylites, who nevertheless have been hysterics;
yet they have succeeded in healing the sick by the laying-on of hands.
198
P sy c h o - T h er a py Psy c h o - T h er a py
It has been said that anything having the reputation of possessing
healing-power, heals : for this reason sufferers visit sacred groves,
grottos, wells, fountains, rivers, shrines, and even qualified physicians.
Hippocrates is regarded as the father of modem medicine, because
he wrought the cleavage between medicine and religion; but in
the earlier days, at the Temple of jEsculapius (god of healing), many
miracle cures were effected, and in spite of Hippocrates, the miraculous
cures have continued.
$7. Queeii Anne was the last English monarch to extend the
royal touch, which was considered a cure for scrofula, a disease
known on that account as king's evil. Dr. Johnson was touched by
her. Needless to say, the royal touch did not cure scrofula, for it
is a form of tuberculosis, and miracle workers (albeit of highest
rank) are not germicidal; their influence can only affect cases of
conversion hysteria. However, the miracle healer, in his blissful
ignorance, has but to lay his hands on one blind beggar who recovers,
for a stampede of the sick, from street-sweepers to millionaires, to
queue before his door.
§ 8. " The Divine Count Cagliostro," as he was called, flourished
in the latter half of the 18th century. He was one of the world's
greatest medical charlatans. Expelled from Russia by Catherine
the Great, on account of his inability to produce hair on the scalp
of a bald man, he arrived in Strasbourg in fine style, attended by
servants. With the greatest show of pomp imaginable he settles
into the best hotel, and before long the city is ablaze with the news
that a renowned magician has arrived. It is given out subtly by
his servants that the count has the secret of changing lead into gold,
and has in his possession the elixir of life. Soon he is besieged by
the distressed, supplicating medical aid. The rich he rejects; the
poor he succours! By making the sign of the serpent with his
finger upon the patient's brow, and putting one drop of elixir on the
lips, his miracle cures are accomplished at the rate of hundreds a
day. The cripple throws away his crutch; the blind man sees
again; and so vast a reputation did he beget himself that at last
Cardinal de Rohan called begging aid for a sick relation. Within
a few days of Cagliostro's visit the invalid recovered, and so impressed
was the cardinal that he conveyed the magician to Paris. It was
just as well, for the healed cripples of Strasbourg were already
picking up their discarded crutches; those with sight restored,
again groping in the dark. In Paris Cagliostro's practice was
confined to rich patients only. He sold, for fabulous figures, chairs
that cured those who sat upon them; powders to change ugly old
hags into young and beautiful girls; elixirs to restore vigour to
senile profligates. Great artists of the day painted his portrait, he
was “ immortalized " in song,—and then his patron, Cardinal de
Rohan, dragged him down in the scandalous business of Marie
Antoinette's diamond necklace. He scraped out of the affair, but
Paris became too hot to hold him. He went to Rome where, instead
of gaining fresh distinction and fortune, he was arrested and
imprisoned few
: life. The trial revealed his origin. Bom at Palermo
199
P sy c h o - T h era py P sy c h o - T h er a py
of humble stock, he compensated for his lowly estate by robbing a
local jeweller during a spirit séance. This feat resulted in his flying
from the town. Then, although scarcely out of his teens, he set up
as the worst kind of blackmailer with the aid of a female accomplice,
and so obtained sufficient capital to start business as a magician.
§9, CagUostro is the classical example of the medical charlatan,
but he is not without his contemporaries and his successors. James
Graham of London opened, in 1779, a “ Temple of Health." It con­
tained a magic bed which played organ music for an hour after the
patient was “ tucked up " ; but that was not all—sleeping upon it
cured barrenness or sterility ; music indeed hath charms I In the
19th century, the United States of America seemed to breed miracle
workers as Australia bred rabbits. All American faith-healing was
of a religious character. Andrew Jackson Davis, a cobbler by trade,
in about 1840 began to preach a philosophy involving the concept of
disease as punishment for sin, and soon he published a book on the
subject ; it became a best seller. His miracle cures won him an
enormous following, and the senate seriously considered making his
system the official religious faith of the States. However, the Civil
War gave them other matters to discuss. Soon after this, George O.
Barnes, the “ Mountain Evangelist," secured a large following. He
declared that the Devil caused disease, and h% effected cures by
rebuking the Evil One. Joseph Smith, the Mormon, did miracles
of a medical kind—until Asiatic cholera rather ruined his reputation.
One of his followers advertised that he could " set bones through faith
in Christ . . . commanding the bones they come together, making
a noise like the crushing of an old basket." Francis Schlatter set
out bare-headed, bare-footed and with empty pockets, walking
from Denver, Colorado, over mountain and plain, in 1893, to New
Mexico. Divine inspiration (he said) led him there and back. On
his return he set up as a faith-healer, and " touched " as many as
five thousand patients in a day. These queues were swelled by
persons from all over the States ; but when he began a mail-order
business, selling “ blessed " handkerchiefs to those too sick or too
poor to visit him, the government refused, on the grounds of fraud,
to carry the postal matter. John Alexander Dowie took up the
cloak, established the “ Christian Catholic Church," and preached
that disease was the work of the Devil. Phineas Quimby taught
that illness was the outcome of evil thought, and that the replacement
of the blots upon the brain by " healthymindedness " resulted in
physical cure. Mary Baker Eddy's mental robustness may have
been gained in her search for bodily fitness, because she had been
a patient of Quimby's. Strangely enough, she never cared to
admit this—perhaps the reason was that her organizing ability was
innate, and vastly superior to his. Mortality among Christian
Scientists is in the same proportion as among the rest of the popula­
tion, nevertheless the very large number of enthusiastic followers
testifies to the attractiveness of the New Thought.
§ 10. The title " Christian Science " implies that the practitioners
do not regard their method of healing as miracle working ; but the
200
P sy c h o - T h er a py P sy c h o - T h e r a py
recoveries made at Lourdes are regarded as miracles. About a
million people make the pilgrimage every year ; a small percentage
of them are sightseers and religious enthusiasts, the vast bulk being
sufferers from every kind of sickness. A few, very few are cured.
In 1922 the number was seventeen ; in 1923, eighteen ; but hundreds
of the invalids die of fatigue on the journey. On one occasion a
man expired from shock on being immersed in the fountain. At the
grotto is a large collection of crutches, leg-irons and other orthopaedic
instruments ; spinal-appliances and the like, but no glass eyes or
artificial limbs, a notable deficiency which hard-headed doctors have
not failed to point out. In defence of this piece of scepticism, it
has been said -that the growth of an eye or a limb would not con­
stitute a miracle, as crabs, and other creatures low in the scale of
life, have the power to replace damaged or lost organs. This, of
course, is perfectly true.
§ 11. Franz Anton Mesmer (b. 1733) practised mental-healing
without resorting to divine aid or finding it necessary to establish
a religious sect. Though a qualified physician, he believed in
astrology. He considered the stellar influence on man to be a form
of energy akin to electricity or magnetism acting on the nervous
system. His method was to stroke, with a magnet, the part affected
by the disease. Later he abandoned the theory of terrestrial magnet­
ism, and concluded that the force was a psychic power which he
called“ animal magnetism.*' He exercisedhis therapeutical influence
over his patients by making elaborate passes with his hands before
their faces; he also employed the ' ' magnetic chain'*—persons
sitting in a ring and holding hands in a darkened room. These
séances resulted in his expulsion from Vienna ; but migrating to
Paris, he became very popular. At last the representatives of
11Science " undertook to investigate his claims, and finding nothing
that could be expressed in terms of mathematics, they declared him
an impostor. However, Mesmer was no charlatan, but a psycho­
therapeutist of the modem type, with insufficient data to establish
a theory.
§ 12. Hypnotism differs nowise from Mesmerism, except that
to-day no extravagant passes are made about the patient's head,
this having been found quite unnecessary to induce the rapport.
It was the practice of hypnotism that led Freud to elaborate the
psycho-analytical technique, by means of which so much knowledge
has been gained concerning the content of the unconscious mind,
and its supreme influence over our daily existence. Wit and its
Relation to the Unconscious and Psychopathology o f Everyday Life
are works in which Freud has demonstrated how each waking moment
is under the influence of unconscious mental forces. The Inter­
pretation o f Dreams made it clear that these, too, arise from those
hidden depths. Our dignified Victorian doctors, declaring nightmare
to be solely the result of indigestion, discarded the wisdom of the
ancients who believed that dreams were fraught with meaning.
The Freudians both accept and reject the two extreme points of
view. To them, dreams are not uninfluenced by visceral dis-
s.o. 201 o
Psy c h o - T h era py P sy c h o - T h er a py
comforts, but are nevertheless most certainly not cryptic whispers
from the gods. To-day we are told that dreams—even bad dreams—
are the disguised fulfilment of an unconscious wish. The unconscious
is a primitive layer of mentality conditioned by our pre-human
phylpgeny. It cannot think—it can only wish, andwithout compunc­
tion it wishes for the death of one’s dearest relations. Unpleasant
experiences are repressed into the unconscious, so it is full of in­
admissible wishes and rejected memories. No wonder some dreams
are bad! Sense impressions gathered and not consciously registered
find their way into the unconscious mind, as do forgotten incidents.
A child having some terrifying experience, especially if before the
age of three years, may grow up an hysteric. The outward symptoms
will not give an inkling of the inner cause, for the psyche is ever
on the alert to alter and symbolize the expression, so that the
conscious shall be able to tolerate the unconscious. Hypnotism
effects cures by suggestion without removing the cause of the hysteria.
Psycho-analysis, by allowing the conscious mind to walk backward,
as it were, by easy stages, reveals causes and so allows the sufferer
to readjust himself to life. Hypnotic cures are generally temporary ;
psycho-analytical cures, often permanent. Freud has tapped the
fountain-head of both genius and insanity; his followers have laid
a pipe-line, and if we apply Freud’s doctrine it is now possible to
read aright the cryptic meanings of many mystics and mediums.
§ 13. Psychic revelation has bestowed upon man only confirma­
tion of his material limitation. Every valuable word given out has
at some time or other been taken in. Emanuel Swedenborg " num­
bered the stars ” ; but the fact that others have been discovered
subsequent to his inspired enumeration, does not speak well for the
omniscience of the " spirits.” It occasionally happens that a person
suddenly launches forth in a foreign tongue, a feat which is regarded
as miraculous. Actually it is a form of mental illness called Glos-
solalia. The words have been stored up, perhaps since very early
infancy, and are now brought forth from their long-forgotten hiding-
place in the unconscious; it is not that' the person has become the
mouthpiece of the gods. An observation made concerning these
languages that seem so mysteriously acquired is, that there are
always notable errors in pronunciation.
§ 14. Dr. C. G. Jung, before he broke away from Freud and
propounded advanced theories of his own, did some very valuable
work in the psycho-analysis of occult phenomena by investigating
the manifestations of a spirit-medium. His subject was a certain
Miss S. W., fifteen-and-a-half years of age, the grand-daughter of a
clergyman. Her education was faulty, though she was by no means
unintelligent. Hearing about table-turning she commenced the
practice " for fun,” and her family soon discovered that she was a
medium, the messages received from the table being supposed to
proceed from the dead grandfather. After about a month she
“ developed her powers ” by going into a cataleptic state and deliver­
ing the messages in a tone of voice that gave a very vivid impression
of the deceased grandfather—"it was him speaking.” She also
202
P sy c h o - T h er a py P sy c h o - T h erapy
could impersonate dead relations of whose peculiarities she had only
heard. “ She took up postures of prayer and rapture with staring
eyes and spoke with impassioned and glowing rhetoric [using]
exclusively literary German which she spoke with ease and assurance
quite contrary to her usual uncertain and embarrassed manner in
the waking state " (Psychology of Occult Phenomena, p. 18). S. W.
went into ecstasies, and once developed hysterical blindness which
persisted for over half an hour. Sometimes in the night the room
became magically illuminated and the medium saw figures " concealed
in white veil-like robes/' Dr. Jung attempted to supply her with
a rationalistic explanation of her case, but she always rejected this.
She once said, “ I do not know if what the spirits say and teach me
is true, neither do I know if they are those by whose names they call
themselves, but that my spirits exist there is no question. I see
them before me, I can touch them. I speak to them about everything
I wish as loudly and naturally as I am now talking. They must
be real” (op. cit., p. 22).
§ 15. Soon the " spirits " began to take Miss S. W. away with
them on long journeys, and leave in charge of her mortal frame a
spirit guard, named Ulrich, “ an entertaining chatterer [speaking]
very fluently in high German with a North-German accent." Ulrich,
on one occasion after much questioning, explained that S. W. had
gone to Japan to appear to a distant relation and dissuade him
from making an ill-advised marriage. Then suddenly he announced
her return : he saw her coming from afar off like a star in the north.
Asked why the north and not the east if she was coming from Japan,
he declared that the spirits travel " the direct way over the North
Pole." Soon S. W. awoke from her trance, said she saw Ulrich
standing by her body and expressed a hope that he had not been
talking nonsense ; then she complained of a headache.
§ 16. Ulrich came into evidence more and more. The serious,
religious grandfather was slowly but surely pushed from the scene,
and the witty, chattering idler assumed the forefront. This gentle­
man, when asked earnest questions always replied, "Ask Ivenes,"
or " Ivenes knows," Ivenes being S. W/s name for her somnambulistic
self. After these trances she could remember all the twaddle,
because it was much nearer her conscious mind than was the weighty
discourse of the grandfather, for which she was totally amnesic.
Like all mystics, Ivenes held in her palm the secrets of the universe.
During her long journeys with the spirits she visited " that space
between the stars which people think is empty ; but in which there
are really very many spirit-worlds." She described the appearance
of " Star-dwellers " as " hairless, eyebrowless, sharply cut." She
revealed that the inhabitants of Mars have no souls, no science and
no philosophy, but excel in mechanical arts; their aeroplanes were
perfected long ages ago. Napoleon was a Martian sent on earth.
She gave the geography of Mars, at the same time explaining that the
canals were not difficult to cut as the Martian soil was so much
lighter than our own. In her semi-somnambulistic state she pro­
nounced herself to be the reincarnation of the Prophetess of Prevorst,
203
P sy c h o - T h er a py
P sy c h o - T h era py
whose exploits she had become aware of through a then recently
published book. She (Ivenes), together with Swedenborg and Miss
Florence Cook (Sir William Crookes's medium), were able to reincar­
nate themselves every two hundred years. Ivenes gave a long list
of historic personages whom she had been ; but she was unaware
that these characters had not always followed each other in history
at intervals of two hundred years. Her " mystic science " began
to manifest itself after a conversation concerning Kant's Natural
History of the Heavens occurred in her presence, during her normal
period. She then, in her trance state, declared that “ On one side
was the light, on the other the power of attraction " ; that " the
natural forces are arranged in seven circles. Outside these circles
are three more, in which unknown forces intermediate between
energy and matter are found. . . . " She revealed the existence of
two Powers, “ Magnesor " and “ Connesor," between which were
numerous other Powers such as Cafor, Hefa, Persus, Hypnos, Smar,
Kara, Pusa, etc. These might be equated to life-force, warmth,
light, electricity and the like.
§ 17. After this the spirits apparently deserted Miss S. W., or she
began to make recovery from her illness. Ulrich's nonsense became
more and more the natural conversation of a girl of now a little over
sixteen years of age ; and at last, during a séance held in the dark,
she was caught throwing " apports " about. These were discovered
to have been concealed in her clothing.
§ 18. Dr. Jung, in reviewing the case, makes it quite clear that
all these manifestations were part of the content of S.W.'s unconscious
mind. She was a sensitive girl, under-educated and neglected.
The dead grandfather who took so much interest in her during her
cataleptic state, represented a wish-fulfilment. She deeply desired
to be loved, cared for and instructed. Her description of the
inhabitants of the stars expressed her antipathy to unsympathetic
people. Her reincarnation claims might be regarded as superiority
wishes, in opposition to inferiority feelings ; and her " mystic-
science " was no better and no worse than the systems so elaborately
devised by famous “ mystics " ; in fact, for a girl of such meagre
learning, it was a surprising feat. Dr. Jung discovered its basis in
the back of Miss S. W.'s school-atlas, in the diagrams of botanical
schemes, and the astronomical charts. Her words, Persus, Fenus,
Nenus, Sirum, Surus, Fixus and Pix, are childish distortions of
Perseus, Venus, Sirius, and fixed stars. The girl had read without
understanding, repressed the irksome knowledge, distorted it, and
reproduced it through hysteria. Ulrich's good German accent was
that of a friend of the family. “ Magnesor and Connesor " were
derived from magnetism and what she imagined must be its contrary.
When the spirits finally left her alone, that is when she passed right
through from somnambulism via conscious fraud to good mental
health, her character was found to be improved ; she had become
a sadder and wiser young woman, able to earn a good living and
assume business responsibility. Not all “ mediums," however, are
so fortunate as Miss S. W. They either remain cataleptic, in which
204
P sy c h o - T h era py Psy c h o - T h e r a py
distressing state of disease they derive a good income from their
enthusiastic followers, or they recover to the conscious-fraud level
and continue to cheat for their subsistence until exposure brings
them into disgrace.
§ 19. A person does not need to be in a psychopathological condi­
tion, or even in a dream-state, for the unconscious mind to erupt
part of its contents into consciousness, so that forgotten matter
appears as original matter. This is called cryptomnesia, and such
utterances and writings are by no means uncommon. Nietzsche in
Zarathustra committed unconscious plagiarism from a book by
Kemer, The Log of the Ship " Sphinx,” which he had read in his
boyhood. Cryptomnesia, too, can explain the phenomenon displayed
by mediums when, in a trance-state, they write books which they
believe to be dictated to them by the spirit of a dead author. The
same process is at work when a person discovers a lost article of
value through “ supernatural ” revelation, either in a dream or
thanks to the timely appearance of a kindly, all-seeing, informative
ghost; in other words, during a somnambulistic state. The know­
ledge of the whereabouts of the missing article is all the time in
the unconscious: the hypnoidal condition allows it to well up into
consciousness.
§ 20. Such unconscious cerebration as merges into occultism
includes the process known as paramnesia. Not infrequently persons
visiting a strange place feel that they are familiar with every detail
of the landscape. It appears to them that they know exactly where
to look for each hill-top ; that every landmark is an old friend. The
impression can be so vivid that the recipients have been known to
conclude that this is their second time on earth. Reincarnation
then becomes a subject of overwhelming interest; books on the
subject are borrowed and even bought, and perhaps the Theosophical
Society gets a recruit. The delusion is the result of the combined
effects of excitement and fatigue, the latter being on the occasion
inhibited by the former ; nevertheless the tired psychic mechanisms
attempt to short-circuit their task, hence the landscape is immediately
repressed to the memory sphere so that the hill-top now seen for the
first time is simultaneously " remembered/' A person thus convinced
of the reality of reincarnation is not only unwilling, but unable to
accept the prosaic, physical fact concerning the function of exhausted
nerve-tracks, any more than Miss S. W. was able to relinquish her
spirits. She saw, touched and talked with them, therefore their (to
her) objective existence was established.
§ 21. Hysteria is a psychically infectious disease, and has, in various
forms, been known to attack entire communities. When crusading
was popular, a mad shepherd lad (Stephen of Cloyes, 1212) received
“ divine ” injunction to lead the children, who were young and
innocent, to the Holy Land for the purpose of driving out the Saracen.
He marched through France, and despite all the endeavours of
parents, children from every town and village en route joined his
ranks. An " inspired ” person may thus become a very dangerous
person, for suggestibility and affectibility are factors in everyone's
205
P sy c h o - T h er a py P sy c h o - T h er a py
make-up. An excited mob acts in unison, just as a pack of wolves
does, the group becoming emotionally one unit; hence nations
plunge wildly into war, their vast, blood-lusting armies being com­
posed of peace-loving, gentle citizens. The same forces are at work
when, in the United States of America, some innocent negro is
lynched on less than suspicion; and even when there is no cause
for passionate excitement, expectancy may bring about similar
mass-delusion.
§ 22. In the Indian rope-trick the operator causes a group of
people to witness a rope rise out of a coil and stand on end like a rod.
Up this vertical rope a boy climbs, then a fire is set to the bottom
of the cord, and all is consumed, the twist of the rope ravelling out
as the flame ascends, the ash falling in flakes. After this the operator
claps his hands and all is as before— the rope coiled on the ground,
the boy standing beside it, and, needless to add, the operator going
round with the equivalent of " the hat." What has actually taken
place is that the Indian has put the entire expectant group in hypnotic
rapport, and they have seen an act suggested, but not objectively
performed. The clap of the hands rouses the audience from the
somnambulistic state and they go their way wondering.
§ 23. When a medium gives to an absolute stranger a message
purporting to emanate from a dead relation,—and when that mes­
sage " comes through " tinctured with the stranger's home-county
dialect, and studded with intimate nicknames and family " pet"
names, it is very impressive; and if there is no question of de­
liberate fraud through connivance with a third party, it is to the
occultist convincing of the medium's genuine communion with
“ spirits/' The rationalist, however, can find a more mundane
explanation: the client, filled with expectancy, has easily become
en rapport with the medium, who acts as a psychic mirror to his
own mind, from whence the advice and warnings arise, no less than
the dialect and nicknames.
§ 24. From Mesmer to Freud and his followers, much valuable
knowledge of human mental processes has been obtained in the
practice of medical science. The application of this knowledge to
the realms of occultism suggests that the medium, if genuine, is a
hysteric capable of affecting the audience ; and if an impostor, then
a hypnotist of no less capability. But as hypnosis is artificial
hysteria, and as Dr. Erskine found that one of his patients, a pro­
fessional medium, went into the mediumistic state when subjected
to hypnosis, there does not seem to be very much room left for the
objective existence of ghosts, albeit the ectoplasmic materializations
can sometimes be photographed—under conditions imposed by the
medium. J. F.
Book recommended:
Hitschmann, Dr. E., Freud’s Theories of the Neuroses (Kegan Paul, 1921).
206
P u c k
Puck. See Fairies, § 2.
P u n y a . See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 9-
P u sa n . See Indian Occultism,
§6.
P y k e , A l b e r t . See Devil-wor­
ship, § 4.
P y r o m a n c y . Divination by fire.
“ P y r o p h il u s.” See Alchemy,
§ 46, midway.
Q
Q ueen H eu ro d is. See Fairies,
§6.
Q ueen of H eaven . See M a Tsu
Po.
Q ueen o f S h eba in C h in a . See
H si Wang M u.
Q u im b y , P h in ea s. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 9 -
R
R a . See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 19-22, 28, 98.
R a d cl iffe , A n n e . See English
Literature and the Occult, § 16.
R a in -m a k in g . See White Magic,
§§ 9 -i2 -
R a in o ld s, Jo h n . See Literature
o f Occultism, § 17.
R a is, L ord o f . See Alchemy,
§ 33 ; and Black M agic, § 9.
R a ksa s. See Indian Occultism,
§ 7 *
R h a b d o m a n c y
R a m sa y , S ir W il l ia m . See A l­
chemy, § 5.
R a th s. See Fairies, § 2.
“ R a y m o n d .” See Spiritualism,
Part III, § 45.
Redgrove, H. S. Author of:
Alchemy ; Ancient and M odem
. . . (Rider, 1911): Bygone Be­
liefs . . . Excursions in the B y­
ways o f Thought (Rider, 1920):
A Mathematical Theory o f Spirit
. . . (Rider, 1912): Matter,
Spirit, and the Cosmos . . .
(Rider, 1910): Purpose and
Transcendentalism (Kegan Paul,
1921) :Roger Bacon . . . (Rider,
1920), and, in association with
0 L. M. L.,” Joseph GlanviU
and Psychical Research in the
17th Century (Rider, 1921).
R ed I n d ia n s, o c c u l t ideas o f .
See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 104-7
R ed L io n S quare, W .C .i ., gh osts
IN. See Ghosts, § 8.
R ed S to n e, t h e . See Alchemy,
§§ 20, 37.
R eeve, C l a r a . See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 16.
R ein e h a r d t. See Alchemy, § 72.
R e j u v e n a t i o n . See A lch em y ,
§§ 61-82.
R esearch, P s y c h ic a l . See Socie­
ties.
R e u c h u n , Jo h n . See Literature
of Occultism, § 5.
R h a b d o m a n c y . Divination by a
wand.
207
Richet Rosicrucians
Richet, Professor Charles. See
Spiritualism, Part II, § 2.
Rid, Samuel. See Literature of
Occultism, § 38.
Right-hand Cultus. See Bud­
dhist Occultism, § 9.
Rig-Veda. See Indian Occultism.
Ring-pass-not. The mental and
spiritual barrier of all who are
so foolish (or wicked) as to be­
lieve they are separate beings.
Ripley, George. See Alchemy,
§ 35 ; and Literature of Occult­
ism, § 19.
Robert of Chester. SeeAlchemy,
§ 3, near end ; and Literature of
Occultism, § 19.
Robin Goodfellow. SeeFairies,
§2.
Rofocale, L ucifuge. See Black
Magic, § 16.
Rohan, Cardinal de. See Psy­
cho-therapy and Psychic Pheno­
mena, § 8.
Rollet, Jacques ; also Jean and
Julien. See Werewolf, § 7.
Rome, occult ideas in. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 73-80 ;
and Occultism in Ancient Greece
and Rome.
Rosaries (Buddhist) consist of 108
beads of uniform size. This
number ensures the repetition
of the name of Buddha at least
too times. The extra 8 allow
for breakage, loss, and absent-
mindedness. The two ends of
208
the string are joined through
three extra beads representing
Buddha, The Word, and the
Priesthood—The Three Holy
Ones. These beads are larger
than the others to indicate to
the teller the completion of a
cycle. The string represents
the penetrating power of the
Buddhas, and is sometimes
woven from human hair.
“ Rosarium Philosophorum.” See
Alchemy, § 28.
Rosicrucians : or, Brotherhood
of the Rosy Cross. A secret
society which in origin was
apparently nothing more than
a practical joke. In 1614 an
anonymous pamphlet entitled
The Faina of the Fraternity . . .
appeared, much to the surprise
of all the " philosophers ” and
alchemists of the period, who
each felt eminently suited to
become a member of an esoteric
brotherhood which announced
with candour such vast occult
achievement. Consequently,
frantic 0letters of application ”
were dispatched to the address
given on the pamphlet—with
an utterly blank result, for not
one of the impatient senders re­
ceived a reply. The mysteri­
ous paper, which had behaved
like a jack-o'-lantern to these
good men searching for the road
to All Knowledge, claimed that
the Order was founded by one
“ C. R. C.” who had travelled
in the Orient and while there
he was initiated into all the
mysteries of magic. In 1616
another paper entitled The
Chymical Nuptials o f Christian
Rosencreutz appearedandcaused
a further furore in occultistic
circles. For the following four
years “ philosophers ” and al­
chemists wrote books and
pamphlets in defence of the
Kosicrudans, each writer hop­
ing to convey the impression
that he was himself a member
of the mystical brotherhood and
thereby increase the respect of
his compeers. Eventually, by
1620, the " quill war " came to
an end, but not the vibration
set in motion by the anonymous
jester who created " C. R. C.”
and his exploits ; for in modem
times numerous groups of
people, from freemasons to
theosophists, have called them­
selves " Rosicrucians/' and it
is even said that the one and
only " C. R. C.,” having in his
possession the secret of the
elixir of life, is still living—as
a Lama, in Tibet.
Ross, M a r t in . See White Magic,
§8.
R ossetti, C h r ist in a . See Eng­
lish Literature and the Occult,
R ossetti, D. G. See English
Literature and the Occult, § 9.
R o y a l t o u c h . See Psycho-ther­
apy and Psychic Phenomena,
R u d a. See Indian Occultism, § 6.
R udras. See Indian Occultism,
§4.
R uth erford, S ir W il l ia m . See
Alchemy, § 9.
S
Sabbat. See Witchcraft, § 14.
SCAPULOM
ANCY
Sacred Elephant. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 1.
Sadhana. See Buddhist Occult­
ism, § 9.
Saint-Germain, Comte de. See
Alchemy, §§ 77-82.
Salem Witch T rials. See Witch­
craft, §21.
Salter, Mrs. W. H. See Spirit­
ualism, Part II, §45.
Samadhi. See Eight Stages of
Yoga.
Sama-Veda. See Indian Occult­
ism, § 2.
Sandivogius, Michael. See A l­
chemy, § 39.
Sa of L ife. A mystic fluid be­
lieved by the ancient Egyptians
to flow through the body,
thereby producing health and
vigour.
Satan, church of. See Devil-
worship, § 1.
Saturn. See Astrology, §§ 6-7.
Sauvastika. See Swastika.
Savages, occult ideas of. See
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 94-
107.
Savitar. Seelndian Occultism, §6.
Scandinavia, occult thought in.
See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 8i ~5-
SCAPULOMANCY. Divination by
means of animals' shoulder-
blades.
209
S carbo rou gh S c o t t
Scarbo rou gh , M iss D o r o t h y .
See English Literature and the
Occult, § 20.
“ S c e p t ic a l C h em ist, T h e.” See
Alchemy, § 46.
S c h la tte r , F r a n c is. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§ 9*
S ch neid er, R u d i. See Spiritual­
ism , Part II, §§ 12-18.
S ch neid er, W. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 3.
SCHRENCK, NOTZING, BARON VON.
See Spiritualism, Part II, § 3.
S cien ce a n d A l c h e m y . See A l­
chemy, §§ 14, 53-6.
SciOM ANCY. Divination by sha­
dows, or manes.
S c o r pio n c h a r m . See Moslem
Occultism, § 17.
S co t, M ich a e l. See Alchemy,
§ 24-
S c o to g r a ph s. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 41.
S c o t t , C y r il . Musicalcomposer.
Under the pseudonym of “ His
Pupil ” and also of " Charles
Broadbent,” he has produced
several literary works (includ­
ing novels) dealing with occult­
ism. The Initiate (1920): The
Adept o f Galilee (1920): The
Initiate in the New World (1927):
The Initiate in the Dark Cycle
(1932): The Vision of the
Nazarene (1933): A n Outline
o f M odem Occultism (1935), all
published by Routledge. Also
“~usic, its Secret Influence
210
(Rider, 1933); and the intro­
duction {at least) to a work as
foolish as it is impious, purport­
ing to be by one “ David
Annas." It is entitled Through
the Eyes of the Masters and con­
sists of several reproduced pen­
cil sketches, each accompanied
by an essay. The portraits
are:—
1. St. Paul. Master Hilarion
in a previous incarnation. 2.
Master Morya, a Rajput prince.
Occupied Akbar's body in a
previous incarnation. Resides
at Shigatse. 3. Master Root
Hoomi Lai Singh, of Kashmiri
origin. Studied at Oxford in
1850. Pythagoras is one of his
previous incarnations. Resides
at Shigatse. 4. Master Jesus.
Previous incarnation Joshua,
son of Nun; also Jesus of
Nazareth who was over­
shadowed by the Christ. Now
in a Syrian body. Lives in the
Holy Land. 5. Master Hilar­
ion. In a previous incarnation
St. Paul. Now in a Cretan
body. Spends much time in
Egypt. 6. The Venetian Mas­
ter. The Painter Paul Vero­
nese in one of his previous in­
carnations. 7. Master Serapis.
Greek by birth. Works with
the Deva Evolution. Dwelling-
place may not be revealed. 8.
The Mahachohan. Known as
the Lord of Civilization. Chief
of the Masters. Resides in the
Himalayas. 9. The Lord Mait-
reya. Known to Christians as
the Christ, to the Orient as the
Bodhi-Sattva, to Mohamme­
dans as the Iman Madhi. Ap­
peared in India as Shri Krishna,
m Palestine as Christ, in Great
Britain as St. Patrick, whose
etheric body he now holds.
Resides in the Himalayas. His
Scott
office is that of World Teacher.
He presides over the destiny of
great religions. This book,
published in 1932 by Rout-
ledge, is a jumble of astrology
and theosophy, and surely can­
not be intended to be taken
seriously ? I
Among Scott's orchestral
works is an opera, “ The Al­
chemist."
Scott, Reginald. See Literature
of Occultism, § 17.
Séance. See Spiritualism.
Second Sight. See Clairvoyance.
Secret Societies (China). See
Buddhist Occultism, §8.
Sendivogius. See Alchemy, §39.
Seneca. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 12.
Serpent Goddess (China). See
Chinese Occultism, § 13.
Seton, Alexander. SeeAlchemy,
§ 39-
Seven, the number. See History
of Occult Ideas, §42.
Shadow Jinn. See Moslem Oc­
cultism, § 18.
ShadWELL. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 14, end.
“ Short T itle Catalogue ”
Wrote much prose and verse
of a mystical character, sup­
posed to have been produced
while in a trance state. His
chief work, The Immortal Hour,
is a poetic drama in which
Eochaid, King of all Ireland,
marries a fairy maid, Etain.
This union is attended by the
usual tragic results of such
arrangements. The play was
set to music by Rutland Bough-
ton, andproduced at the Regent
Theatre, King's Cross, London.
See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 15.
Shedeem. See Fairies, § 18.
Shehireem. See Fairies, § 18.
Shelley. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 9.
|Shen. See Chinese Occultism
and History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 54-6-
Shen L ung. See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 11.
IShin-G on-SHU. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 12.
IShintoism . See Buddhisi
ism, § 13.
Ship o’ the Dead. When old
sailors (more particularly pir­
ates) die ashore, a phantom
ship comes sailing through the
air to fetch them. In Borneo
it is in the shape of a bird and
takes all men's souls.
Shakespeare. SeeEnglish Litera-1
ture and the Occult, §§ 12,13,14. Shiva. See Siva.
Scott, Sir Walter. See A l- Shaw, G. B.
chemy, § 24 ; and English Litera­
ture and the Occult, §§9, 17.
Sharp, William {pseudonym: Short Title Catalogue.” See
Fiona Macleod), 1855-1905. Literature of Occultism, §15.
2TI
S h o rt T r a c t, A ” S o r cer y
“ Sh o r t T r a ct, A.” See A l­
chemy, § 31.
S ib l e y , E benezer. See Astrology,
§ 18 ; and Literature of Occult­
ism, § 28.
S ib y l . One of those women of
the classic period who were re­
puted to possess powers of pro­
phecy. (Cf. Occultism in A n ­
cient Greece and Rome.) Hence,
a fortune-teller ; a witch.
S id d ar th a . See Buddhist Occult­
ism, § 1.
S id e r o m a n c y . Divination byred-
hot iron.
S ig il . See Black Magic, § 15.
S ilb e r t, F rau . See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 30.
S ir G a w a in . See Gawain, Sir.
S iv a . See History of Occult Ideas,
§§ 44, 46, 50 ; and Indian Oc­
cultism, passim .
Sk e le to n S ta f f . A staff of wood
or bone, carved to represent a
human skeleton, used by the
Lamas in Devil-worship.
Sk r ye r . A crystal-gazer.
“ S lan d er of T it l e .” See Ghosts,
§ 4 .
S m it h , P rofessor S ir G . E l l io t .
See History of Occult Ideas, § 3.
S m it h , H élène. See Martian
Language.
S m it h , Joseph (m o r m o n ). See
Psycho-therapy and Psychic Phe­
nomena, §9.
S n eezin g as an omen. See H is­
tory o f Occult Ideas, § 71.
S ocieties (Br itish ) fo r th e S t u d y
o f P sy c h ic a l P h en o m en a , i .
The University of London Coun­
cil for Psychical investigation:
Executive, Prof. Aveling, Prof.
Cyril Burt, Prof. J. C. Flugel,
Mr. Harry Price, Dr. Guy
Brown, S. G. Soal, B.Sc., C. E.
M. Joad, Dr. Mace. 2. The
Society for Psychical Research:
President, Prof. C. D. Broad ;
Hon. Sec., W. H. Salter. 3.
The British College of Psychic
Science. (This, unlike Nos. 1
and 2, is not a society estab­
lished for the unbiased investi­
gation of Psychic Phenomena,
but seems to be concerned
largely with the advancement
of the spiritualistic creed.)
There are also societies at
Reading, Ipswich, Sheffield,
Edinburgh, North-West Dur­
ham, and Dublin, all of which
are affiliated to No. 3.
S o lar C u l t , t h e . See History o f
Occult Ideas, §§ 20-3, 35, 98.
S o lar E clipse and D r a g o n . See
Chinese Occultism, § 11.
S o l o m o n ’s S e a l. See Moslem
Occultism, § 20.
S o m erville, E. GB., and Ross,
M a r t in . See White Magic, § 8.
S o n of th e M o r n in g . See D evil-
worship, § 2.
S o o th saye r . A fortune-teller;
also, one who speaks the truth.
From the obsolete sooth, truth.
So r cer y. See Alchemy, Black
Magic, White Magic and Witck-
212
S o rtileg e S pir itu a l ism
S o rtileg e. Divination by draw­
ing lots.
S o u l o f th e W o r ld . See A l­
chemy, § 13.
S o u th e y . See English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 7, 9.
S pe a k in g fo reign to n g u es. See
Psycho-therapy and Psychic Phe­
nomena, § 13.
S pear, Jo h n M. See Spiritual­
ism , Part I, § 23.
“ Spe cu lu m A lchem ize P erfec-
t u m .” See Alchemy, § 28.
S pen ce, L e w is. Author of Atian-
fis in Am erica' (Benn, 1925) :
Cornelius Agrippa, Occult Philo­
sopher (Rider, 1921): The H is­
tory of Atlantis (Rider, 1926) :
The Magic and Mysteries of
M exico (Rider, 1930) : The
Mysteries of Britain (Rider,
1928): The Mysteries o f Egypt
(Rider, 1929): Myths and
Legends of Babylon and Assyria
(Harrap, 1916): Myths and
Legends of Ancient Egypt (Har­
rap, 1915): The Problem of
Lemuria, the Unknown Conti­
nent of the Pacific (Rider, 1932) :
The Problem of Atlantis (Rider,
1924) : Weirds and Vanities
(Porpoise Press Broadsheet,
1927) : Songs, Satanic and
Celestial (Elkin Matthews,
1913). He is also editor of
A n Encyclopedia of Occultism
(Routledge, 1930).
Spenser. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 5.
Sp in o z a . See Alchemy, §§ 43, 44,
end.
Sp ir it l ig h t s. See Spiritualism,
Part II, §§ 28-32.
Sp ir it -ph o t o g r a ph y . SeeSpirit­
ualism, Part II, §§ 33-41.
SPIRITUALISM
In tr o d u ct io n
§ 1. The literature of modem spiritualism is vast and its ramifi­
cations almost endless. In Part I of this article I give a very brief
résumé of some of the principal phases of early spiritualism between
the years 1848 and 1875. I make no attempt to be exhaustive as
regards either the alleged phenomena or the mediums concerned.
I am of course indebted largely to the incomparable Podmore for
this section, and if my judgments agree largely with his it is because
after having read a great deal of the original literature I think that
Podmore's views are fundamentally sound.
§2. In Part II I give some brief description of telekinetic
phenomena for which the evidence is stronger than for any other
class of physical phenomena. Here again no attempt whatever
is made even to exhaust the list of mediums who are considered
important by psychical researches. I do not even discuss the
phenomena of Eusapia Palladino, though in her case the evidence
for telekinesis is exceptionally strong. Brief notes follow on other
alleged physical phenomena for which the evidence is very feeble
or entirely negative.
213
S pir itu a lism S pir itu a l ism
5 3. I am indebted to Mr. Fred Barlow, Major Rampling Rose
and Mr. Harry Price for my estimate of the status of Spirit Photo­
graphy. Their work in unmasking the machinations of William
Hope is of paramount importance.
§ 4. Part III I regard as the main raison d'etre of the present article.
For not only is the evidence for telepathic phenomena immeasurably
superior to that for any alleged supernormal physical phenomenon
whatsoever, but the interest of the general reader in psychical
research centres chiefly around the great question of human sur­
vival after bodily death. In this article \vill be found what the
writer hopes is a fairly cogent analysis of so-called spirit communi­
cations, illustrated partly from his own first-hand experience and
partly from the work of other investigators. If the reader feels
disappointed in the writer's inability to endorse the spiritualistic
interpretation of these obscure mental phenomena he may be re­
minded that though communication with the spirits of the dead is
discredited in favour of the hypothesis of an extended form of
telepathy from living minds, yet the very demonstration that there
are regions of the human mind which are free from the fetters of
space and time, brings us appreciably nearer to the long-hoped-for
proof of the soul's survival.
§ 5. In an article necessarily restricted as to space, I felt it would
be impracticable to give any account of the numerous investigations,
statistical and otherwise, that have been carried out since 1882 in
attempts to demonstrate telepathy and clairvoyance by experimental
means. Most of my own work during the past nine years has been
directed towards this end, but the results have been entirely nega­
tive. The recent experiments of Dr. J. B. Rhine which have received
so much newspaper publicity should be accepted only with the
greatest caution. At present the University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation is engaged in a prolonged repetition of
Dr. Rhine's work and until the results are available, judgment
should be held in suspense.
P a r t I
E a r l y S p ir it u a l ism in th e U n ited S tates
§ 1. Although “ spirit" rappings had been reported at Glenn's Falls
several years previous to those of Hydesville, yet it may be fairly
claimed that the year 1848 saw the beginning of the great wave
of modem spiritualism which was destined to flood the North
American continent and to break five years later on our English
shores.
§ 2. The times were fully ripe for the founding of a new religion
which should have facts for its basis instead of faith. Already
itinerant hypnotists had made large sections of the American public
familiar with the marvels of the mesmeric trance. Ignorant people
under the mesmeric influence seemed to become endowed with a
knowledge and an intelligence that were not their own. They
delivered learned discourses and they even diagnosed diseases.
214
S pir itu a l ism S p ir itu a l ism
§ 3. In the summer of 1847 Andrew Jackson Davis published his
bulky work The Principles of Nature, Her Divine Revelations and
A Voice to M ankind.
Davis, an imperfectly educated though not illiterate shoemaker
of New York State, had been hypnotized almost daily by a Dr.
Lyon, and while in the hypnotic trance had dictated the above
book piecemeal over a period of fifteen months. At the time of
its completion Davis was only 21 years of age. In this work he
attempted to trace the main outlines of cosmic evolution starting
with the genesis of the solar system and proceeding to describe the
growth of plant and animal life through the geological epochs cul­
minating with the history of the human race and its projected
future. As a contribution to the scientific knowledge of his day,
Davis's work was of negligible value and is indeed full of absurdities.
Yet it possessed a sort of crude imaginative power which caused it
to become an instant " best seller " and its author to be proclaimed
the herald of a new religious era.
§ 4. Davis had probably read much more widely than was credited
him by his disciples and he possessed a memory that was " marble
to retain." The sources of the remarkable work produced by Davis
were probably such books as The Vestiges of Creation and certain
English textbooks of geology. According to Podmore the Voice
to M ankind was possibly founded on Brisbane's Social Destiny
of M an, a book which was popular at that time in the Eastern
States.
In the earlier part of his career Davis does not appear to have
claimed that his works were dictated by discamate spirits ; he seems
to have regarded them as the products of his own lucidity in the
hypnotic state. Later on he became associated with the new
Spiritualist Movement.
§ 5. In the same year, 1847, which saw the publication of The
Principles of Nature, mysterious rappings broke out at a house in
the little village of Hydesville, situated in the township of Arcadia,
New York State. Into this house, which was of wood and furnished
with a cellar, a family of small farmers of the name of Fox had
moved in December 1847. The family consisted of the father and
mother and two young daughters, Margaretta and Katie, the latter
being aged 15 and 12 years respectively. According to the testi­
mony of the Fox family, the four tenants of the house had passed
many disturbed nights on account of mysterious rappings which
broke out on the walls, floor and furniture of the bedroom in which
the whole family slept. On the memorable evening of 31 March
1848 it is said that the younger sister Katie was lying in bed while
the raps were occurring. Katie called out, " Here, Mr. Splitfoot,
do as I do," at the same time snapping her fingers several times.
The raps responded with an imitative fusillade.
§ 6. Thereupon the family entered into communication with the
rapping intelligence. Neighbours were called in who witnessed the
rapping and plied it with questions. These questions seem all
to have been of the leading type. If the answer was " Yes " the
215
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a l ism
listeners heard a series of raps; if “ No ” the “ spirits ” remained
silent.
§ 7. Now it was recalled by the neighbours that in a certain year
previous to the tenancy of the Fox family, a pedlar of the name
of Charles B. Rosna had called at the house one day and had never
been seen again in the district. Bit by bit by means of leading
questions it was extracted from the rapping entity that he was
indeed the spirit of this pedlar who had been murdered by the
former occupant of the house. He stated further that his body was
buried in the cellar. In July 1848 the Fox family claimed to have
dug in the cellar and unearthed human bones, hair, charcoal and
a wooden board which covered a hollow space. Now there is not
the slightest corroborative evidence of this* sensational discovery.
For all we know, the Foxes may have procured a few bones from
elsewhere and buried them in the cellar. It is certain that they
had commenced digging operations three months earlier, i.e., in April
1848, but had given up on reaching water. Nor is there any proof
that the pedlar was even dead; he may merely have migrated to
another neighbourhood. There is only the vaguest rumour that he
ever existed. And even if bones were found in the cellar there is
no evidence worth a farthing candle that they were the remains of
a human being.
§ 8. Shortly afterwards, Margaretta Fox left Hydesville to stay
at Rochester with a married sister, while Katie went to Auburn.
The mysterious raps followed the two sisters, and it was soon dis­
covered that messages could be obtained through them purporting
to come from various deceased persons. Katie and Margaretta
found themselves to be persons of importance and soon set up as
rapping mediums. Committees of medical men were appointed to
investigate the cause of the alleged raps, and some of these com­
mittees appear to have been incompetent. In 1850 the sisters, now
famous, visited Buffalo and were examined by three professors of
the University. These gentlemen satisfied themselves that the raps
were produced by a cracking or slight dislocation of the knee-joints.
They found that when the legs were placed in such a position that
the girls were unable to obtain leverage by pressing their feet on
the floor the raps could not be produced.
§ 9. As a matter of fact, this partial " exposure ” did the Fox
sisters little or no injury. For the Buffalo committee did not push
its investigations so far as to secure positive proof that the actual
origin of the sounds was the knee-joint. This was merely an indirect
inference, and in the eyes of the general public it could not produce
the conviction of a direct demonstration of fraud. In fact, such
sounds as we are dealing with are extremely difficult to locate with­
out the aid of elaborate microphone apparatus, which of course the
investigators did not possess.
§ 10. In 1851 a Mrs. Culver, a relation by marriage of the Fox
sisters, produced a statement in the presence of witnesses to the
effect that Katie had confessed to her that her raps were fradulently
produced by cracking either the knees or the trig toe. According
2x6
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
to Mrs. Culver, Katie had also explained that if she desired to create
the illusion that the raps were coming from a particular piece of
furniture she would look earnestly in that direction. The explana­
tion is, of course, in agreement with the basic principles of ven­
triloquism.
§ n . In the meantime, “ rapping ” mediums were being dis­
covered in all parts of the Eastern States. Modem Spiritualism
was fairly launched. The phenomena grew in number and variety.
It was found that when three or four persons rested their hands
on a small table the table would sometimes behave as though it
possessed intelligence; it tilted backwards and forwards. If one
called over the alphabet, intelligent communications were obtained:
these purported to come from discamate spirits. For the clumsy
table a small board on wheels and provided with a pencil was in
course of time conveniently substituted and messages were written
on a sheet of paper. Other mediums simply let a pencil rest in
their fingers and the pencil wrote long communications which the
medium claimed were produced by an intelligence other than his
own.
§ 12. In this way communications were received from such exalted
spirits as Jeanne D'Arc and from scientific worthies like Benjamin
Franklin. Still other mediums like T. L. Harris1 dictated whole
epic poems and lyrics while in the trance state. These poems of
Harris were by no means lacking in literary merit, although echoes
of Shelley were frequent.
§ 13. Other trance speakers like Mrs. Cora Tappan regaled their
audiences with fluent discourses on spiritualism and the progress
of the soul in the spirit spheres. Mrs. Tappan appears to have been
the American prototype of the Mrs. Meurig Morris of our own day.
Like Mrs. Morris, she could preach from almost any text extempore,
and like her she seldom descended to such vulgar detail as to dis­
cuss whether spirits eat and drink, whether they live in houses or
what clothes they wear. Mrs. Tappan's effusions are full of a windy
eloquence and remind one of the attempts of a clever but inex­
perienced schoolgirl who desires to write “ something fine ” but
who has really nothing much to say.
§ 14. In general, it must be confessed that in the seventies the
spirits seem to have beenvery reticent concerning the topography and
domestic detail of the world beyond the grave. But the main
outlines of their dogma may be briefly explained. A man is sup­
posed to possess as well as his body of flesh and bone an “ astral ”
or " fluid " body composed of a finer and more subtle kind of matter.
At the death of the physical body the soul is supposed to exercise
its functions through the vehicle of this " astral ” body. The astral
bodies of those who have led gross lives are said to consist of a
grade of matter that is less refined than that which constitutes the
fluid bodies of more spiritual souls. As the soul progresses towards
moral perfection its “ astral ” body grows less dense and rises by
some law of moral gravity to the higher spiritual spheres. This
1 That plausible rogue who so despicably befooled Laurence Oliphant (q.v.).
S.O. 217 P
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
conception of the “ astral ” body was, of course, borrowed by
Spiritualism from ancient Hindu philosophy.
§ 15. In the séance room—granting a sufficient absence of light
— the spirits can clothe their " etheric ” members with denser matter
drawn from the body of the medium and so render them visible or
tangible, a process known as materialization. These materialized
spirit hands were able to move objects in the darkness, to play
musical instruments and to caress the sitters. In the early days
of American spiritualism “ physical ” mediums gave their demon­
strations frequently before large audiences in darkened halls. The
“ spirits ” played guitars, violins and even pianos in the darkness :
the mediums being absolutely free from all control. Not infrequently
some hostile sceptic would flash a dark lantern upon the stage and
the mediums would be revealed with the guitars and accordions in
their hands or in the very act of playing the piano. Then pande­
monium would break loose and the mediums would be lucky to
escape with their skins unbroken.
§ 16. But there were also many private circles for physical pheno­
mena at which only believers were welcomed. The most famous
of these was held in the “ spirit rooms ” of Jonathan Koons away
in the hills of Ohio. The mediums were Koons and his son Nahum,
and the séance room was a log building. The mediums sat at a
small table entirely uncontrolled, while the sitters to the number
of twenty occupied benches facing the mediums. A dish containing
wet phosphorus was provided ; into this the " spirits '' were alleged
to dip their materialized hands which were then visible to the
audience in the darkened room. Various musical instruments
placed ready for the purpose were played by the spirits to such
effect that the discordant din could be heard a mile away.
§ 17. There is hardly a phenomenon that has been reported in
the last forty years—with the possible exception of the impression
of spirit thumbs in wax and fully materialized human figures—but
has its prototype in those early days. In the case of the Koons
manifestations, the controlling spirits claimed to be a race of pre-
Adamite men one hundred and sixty-five in number.
§ 18. In the year 1853 Robert Hare, a professor of chemistry in
the University of Pennsylvania, became interested in the alleged
physical phenomena of spiritualism and actually devised some simple
apparatus for demonstrating the action of supernormal force at a
distance from the medium's body. Hare was thus the precursor
of Crookes and Crawford and like them he seems to have paid little
attention to the possibility of the medium's tampering with the
apparatus by the normal use of his hands or feet. In all these
early experiments the honesty of the medium was tacitly assumed.
$ 19. Another famous public man who about this time became
interested in the new cult was Judge Edmonds, a lawyer of the
Supreme Court in New York State. Edmonds, who appears to have
suffered a good deal of persecution on account of his belief in spiritual­
ism, possessed a daughter Laura, of whom it is alleged that she
spoke words and sentences of foreign languages of which she was
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
normally ignorant. Thus it is said that she spoke Polish in the
presence of a Pole and Greek when a Greek gentleman was present.
But no examples are recorded, and there is no proof that the lady
did not know something of the languages in question. In fact, the
evidence for what Professor Richet calls Xenoglossie, or the speaking
in unknown tongues, is even more shadowy in the case of Laura
Edmonds than it is in the case of the modem medium George
Valiantine.
§ 20. Another almost incredible phenomenon was reported of the
medium Henry Gordon. Dr. Halloch, at a meeting of the New
York conference, stated that on the previous Sunday afternoon,
while he was giving a lecture, the medium Henry Gordon, who was
seated at some distance in front of the lecturer in a well-lighted
room, suddenly " rose in the air without any human aid, till the
speaker beheld him floating so high that his feet just grazed the top
of the seat, above which he hung in the air, where he swayed about
from side to side, and turned partly around. By this time the
attention of the entire congregation was riveted on him when he
sank to the ground.” With regard to this incident, Podmore remarks
that he was unable to find corroborative evidence by any other
member of the audience, and further that there is no other reference
to it in the literature of spiritualism.
§ 21. Another incident alleged to have occurred in a good light
in the presence of several witnesses is the movement of a metal ring.
It is said that the medium held her hand several inches above the
ring, which was resting on the piano-lid. The ring rose in the air,
followed the medium's hand, and remained an instant motionless
without visible support. It does not, however, seem to have occurred
to any of the observers to discover whether there was a fine human
hair attached to the ring! Such a hair would escape detection if
the background of the experiment was properly chosen.
§ 22. The new movement, of course, possessed its fanatics who
claimed knowledge both exclusive and superior to that held by the
rank and file. There was, for example, in the town of Auburn a
spiritualistic sect who obtained, by means of raps, messages purport­
ing to come from St. Paul, the twelve Apostles and the prophet
Daniel. This community afterwards settled in 1851 at Mountain
Cove in Virginia.
§ 23. Again, there was the ludicrous case of the medium John M.
Spear, who announced in 1854 that the “ spirits ” had formed a
society of “ Electrizers.” The “ Electrizers ” intended to com­
municate the principle of life to a machine made of copper and zinc
which was to be worked by spiritual energy and which was to revolu­
tionize human life on our planet. In order to effect this desirable
consummation, the friends of the medium constructed some kind
of mechanical device out of copper and zinc. A woman was found
and she experienced imaginary pangs of child-labour, but the machine
refused to come to life. In spite of all efforts it refused to budge,
and was ultimately wrecked by an angry mob which broke into the
building in which it was housed.
219
Spiritualism Spiritualism
E a r l y S p ir it u a l is m in E n g l a n d
§ 24. In 1852 Mrs. Hayden, the first “ rapping ” medium, landed
in England and gave sittings at half-a-guinea a head. In the same
year a craze for table-turning started in France, and in the following
year it spread to England. It was found that when four or five
persons stood round a light circular table with their hands resting
upon it, the table would tilt and sometimes rotate. The sense of
the rotation conformed to the general expectation of the people
standing around. If one half of the sitters expected it to rotate in
a clockwise sense and the other half counterclockwise, the table
would remain at rest. The great physicist Faraday showed by
means of ingenious experiments that the movement of the table was
caused by the unconscious muscular pressure of the hands resting
on it.
§ 25. What Faraday did not explain, however, was why the table
should tilt out (by the use of the alphabet) messages which were
often quite unexpected by any of the people present. The name of
a deceased person would be spelt out by the tilts when perhaps no
one was thinking of this name. In denouncing the activities of the
table-turners as puerile, Faraday and others did not realize that an
epoch-making advance in human psychology was being inaugurated.
Here were the first experimental proofs of the existence of a stream
of mental activity flowing underneath the normal consciousness of
waking life. To-day the existence of a “ subconscious " mental
activity has become such a commonplace idea that we forget how
much psychology owes to the humble table-turners and automatic
writers.
§ 26. In 1853 a French Committee presided over by Chevreul, a
famous chemist, investigated the phenomena of table-turning and
came to the conclusion that the movements of the divining-rod, of
the pendule explorateur and of the tables were to be attributed to a
single cause—namely, the effect of small unconscious muscular
pressures. But here again Chevreul refused to admit that the
messages ever showed any knowledge that was not in the conscious
minds of the automatists themselves.
§ 27. The year 1855 was a landmark in the history of English
spiritualism, for in that year Daniel Dunglas Hume (or Home), one
of the most mysterious men of all time, visited England. Home,
who was bom in Scotland, had passed most of his life in America,
and when he arrived in England was in his twenty-third year. In
America, Home haddevelopedas a physical medium and hadproduced
the same sort of phenomena as we have described in our account of
Koons’s spirit rooms. The playing of concertinas, guitars, and the
ringing of handbells, touches of " spirit ” hands, the apparent levita­
tion of tables, currents of cold air passing over the hands and faces
of the sitters were among the phenomena he produced in a dim light
or a darkened room.
§ 28. During his stay in England, Home, who was a man of great
personal charm, moved in some of the best circles of society. He
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
habitually interrupted his physical séances to deliver lofty moral
discourses which appear to have profoundly affected his hearers.
In his bearing Home affected the cultured man of the world; there
was little about him that might suggest the common charlatan or
vulgar paid medium. Nevertheless, Home managed to feather his
nest by getting “ adopted '' by a wealthy widow who presented him
with a sum of £24,000. This widow afterwards repented of her
generosity, and in 1868 brought an action against her protégé alleging
undue influence on Home's part. This action she won, although
Home was acquitted of any definite intention to defraud.
§ 29. Home's outstanding reputation does not depend so much on
the things that were alleged to occur in the darkened séance room
as on the numerous inexplicable happenings which were witnessed
in his presence in fairly good light.
§ 30. Thus Sir William Crookes records that on 30 July 1871, by
the light of methylated-spirit lamps, Home was seen to rise in the
air to the height of about 6 inches, remain there for about 10 seconds,
and then slowly descend. Sir William himself did not see the
medium's feet while they were in the air, but reported that Mr.
Walter Crookes actually saw his feet in the air. The movement,
says Sir William, was a continuous glide upwards.
§ 31. The famous case of alleged levitation in which three witnesses
of high social standing were convinced that Home was carried
through the air from the window of one upstairs room to reappear
through the window of the adjoining room is so well known that I
shall not attempt to describe it here.
§ 32. We shall probably never know the truth about this remark­
able incident any more than we shall know the truth about Home’s
other phenomena. Probably Podmore's theory that Home habitually
chose for his sitters individuals who were highly suggestible and on
whose minds he could produce psychological illusions amounting
almost to visual hallucination lies nearer the truth than any that has
yet been put forward. It may perhaps be objected that Crookes, the
eminent chemist, the discoverer of thallium and of the cathode rays,
could not have been of this type. When Crookes saw Home take
out of the fire a large piece of cinder and place the red-hot part on a
handkerchief allowing it to rest there for half a minute without
setting the handkerchief ablaze—it will be said that surely this was
not an illusion. The answer is that conjurers who are experts in
the art of misdirection and psychological deception have produced
illusions quite as convincing as this one. It does not foUow that
because Crookes was an eminent chemist familiar with the properties
of temperature and flame, he was equally versed in the arts of visual
deception. He may have seen just what Home wanted him to see
and no more. Moreover, it is now generally admitted by psychical
researchers of any standing that Crookes was deceived in believing
that Katie King was a spirit form distinct from Miss Florence Cook
the medium. Personally, I think that Crookes may well have been
in many directions a highly suggestible person.
S 33- The handling of hot coals as practised by Home is perhaps
221
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a l is m
not so remarkable a feat as at first sight appears. There is often
on the hot cinder a protective layer of non-conducting ash, and if
the coal is expertly handled the red-hot part may never come into
contact with the skin. At one sitting the Earl of Dunraven reports
that kneeling down before the fire Home “ placed his face right among
the burning coals, moving it about as though bathing it in water."
But here again we do not know precisely the sort of fire into which
Home so boldly placed his head. We are told that he had first
“ stirred the embers into a flame," but we are not told what sort of
a flame.
§ 34. Nevertheless, when all is said, it is difficult to apply Pod-
more's conjecture to all the mysterious occurrences that were alleged
to happen in the presence of Home. For example, Dr. Thomas
Hawksley reports that he visited Home one day in the company of
a friend. In broad daylight this friend stood on a heavy centre-claw
table and the table was lifted 8 inches into the air. Dr. Hawksley
put his hand under the castors and verified that the legs were really
off the ground. I cannot with Podmore suppose that Dr. Hawksley
here suffered from an illusion of memory merely because he reported
the event years after it actually occurred. Normal individuals of
scientific training are not as a rule deceived by their memories to
this extent. Cases of this kind, moreover, are not rare in the extensive
literature of Home's mediumship. The case of Home remains and
seems destined to remain one of the unsolved riddles of psychical
research.
E a r l y M a t e r ia l iz a t io n P h e n o m e n a
§ 35. The alleged appearance of a full-fledged solid and tangible
spirit form wearing clothes was first noted in America at a séance
in which one of the Fox sisters was the medium. At this séance,
held in i860, a " veiled and luminous female figure " was seen to
walk round the room. In the six years that followed, Kate Fox
produced hundreds of materializations purporting to be the spirit of
the deceased wife of Mr. Livermore, a New York banker. At these
séances, which were held in total darkness and generally in the sole
presence of Mr. Livermore and the medium, a luminous figure would
appear : this the banker professed to recognize as his deceased wife.
§ 36. In 1872 the notorious Mrs. Guppy started the ball rolling in
England by sitting inside a cupboard and causing to appear and
disappear at an aperture a small white head. As Podmore aptly
remarks, the performance seems to have been of the nature of a
Punch and Judy show and was not particularly convincing. But the
next eight years saw a veritable epidemic of full-form “ materializa­
tions " produced in fairly good light. Farcical as these performances
were, some brief description of them must be given. In one comer
of the room would be placed a cabinet or upright wooden box,
supplied sometimes with folding doors ; on other occasions, a curtain
would be hung across a comer of the room. The medium would
retire inside the cabinet or behind the curtain. The sitters, who
wfere nearly always convinced believers, would sit in a circle at some
2ZZ
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a l is m
distance from the curtain. The medium would be fully dressed and
tied to her chair by one of the sitters. The lights would be turned
low. Presently some white drapery would make its appearance in
the aperture of the curtains or folding doors. This would disappear
and reappear. In the event of no sceptics being present a form
dressed in white drapery and with swathed head would emerge and
slowly promenade the room, sometimes caressing a sitter. It would
then disappear into the cabinet. After a short interval the sitters
would examine the cabinet and find the medium apparently asleep
dressed as at the beginning and still tied to her chair.
§ 37. Very occasionally a sceptic would gain admission to these
sittings and seize the supposed spirit. Whereupon the white drapery
would fall to the floor and the sceptic would find himself embracing
the medium. All sorts of absurd hypotheses were invented by the
spiritualists in order to show that the exposure was not an exposure.
They even went so far as to suggest that the spirit form and the
medium were connected by a kind of elastic band. When the spirit
form was seized this band immediately contracted and the spirit
form instantly coalesced with the body of the medium! In other
words, the medium's body flew to join that of the spirit and merge
with it. To explain away the existence of the white drapery it was
suggested that this, unlike the spirit body itself, was not " material­
ized ” but introduced by the spirits by supernormal means from,
say, some draper's shop.
§38. Now it must be emphasized that the famous case of Florence
Cook, the materializing medium examined by Sir William Crookes,
does not differ fundamentally from that of half a dozen other mediums
whose puerile performances I have summed up in the last paragraph.
There was the same lack of control of the medium in the cabinet;
there was the same absence of any attempt to search the medium
before the séance for hidden drapery; there was the same close
resemblance between the faces of the medium and of the spirit form.
All that Crookes had to rely on are certain séances in which he
claimed to see the figure of the spirit Katie King standing beside the
huddled form of Miss Cook lying on the floor. [I am speaking here
of the séances held in Crookes's own house.] Now Crookes admitted
that on these occasions he and the other observers never saw the
face of Miss Cook. Apparently all they saw was a heap of clothes
and a pair of boots. As regards the boots it must be remembered
that Katie the spirit always appeared barefoot.
S39. The two séances on 29 March 1874 and 21 May of the same
year at which Crookes obtained indisputable evidence that the figure
on the floor and Katie were distinct human beings were unfortunately
both held at Miss Cook's own house, and seem to have been deliber­
ately staged by the mediumherself in order to produce final conviction
in Crookes's mind. Under the circumstances it would be probably
easy for Miss Cook to arrange for a confederate to be introduced—a
young girl resembling herself—to personate the entranced Miss Cook.
The final disappearance of the spirit on 21 May strongly suggests
that things were getting too hot for the medium and that she could
223
S p ir it u a l ism
S p ir it u a l ism
not hope to deceive Crookes much longer. Six years later Miss Cook,
then Mrs. Comer, was seized while impersonating a spirit.
§40. In April, 1934, four photographs of the " spirit ” Katie
King taken by Crookes himself were published for the first time.
They reveal a very modem-looking young woman wearing a white
dress and a head-covering of the same material. It is indeed difficult
to believe that any person could be deceived by so obvious an
imposture as is presented to us by these photographs.
§ 41. The case of Crookes is doubtless one for the psycho-analyst.
The only solution I can suggest is a sexual one. Did the imagination
of the great chemist succeed in transforming the face of this very
ordinary-looking young woman into that of an angelic being who
inspired love and reverence ? Was Crookes in love with " Katie
King ” and did his love blind him to the grossest forms of imposture
and cause him to overlook the most elementary precaution ? It
would almost seem so.
P a r t II
T he P h y s ic a l Ph e n o m e n a o f Sp ir it u a l ism
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA
§ I. By Telekinesis is understood the movement of objects placed
at a distance from the medium's body by the action of forces at
present unknown to science. Thus, if a medium is able to cause a
curtain to sway by what appears to be a jet of air impinging upon
it we could consider this to be a genuine case of telekinesis only if
we were able to exclude every known means by which such a current
of air could be generated. The main difficulty experienced by com­
petent observers in testing the reality of such phenomena arises out
of the fact that they almost always occur in a feeble light or in
absolute darkness.
§ 2. It is true that there are isolated cases which have been reported
to occur in broad daylight. We have mentioned one such alleged
case with the medium D. D. Home. A similar case was reported
with the medium Eusapia Palladino. Professor Charles Richet and
E. Brodie Lodge, a son of Sir Oliver Lodge, declare that in the year
1899 tney saw in front of the Château de Carquéiranne a table
weighing 48lb. rise 2 feet into the airin broad daylight. The medium
Eusapia was seated in front of the table with both hands held, and
when it was well up in the air all the people present, including the
medium, stood back from it. Professor Richet passed his hands
under and all round the table and satisfied himself that nothing
visible was holding it up. Lodge's account is written from memory,
but it is hard to believe that the observers should have been deceived
in such an affair in broad daylight, unless we assume that Eusapia
was able to hallucinate them all at the same time—a supposition
which to me seems even more improbable than the alleged levitation
itself.
S3« Nevertheless, such isolated cases produce but small conviction
224
S p ir it u a lism
in the minds of scientific men with regard to the general question of
the existence of telekinesis. They demand that examples shall be
produced in a séance-room fitted up with the most up-to-date record-
ing apparatus and under conditions of unexceptionable control of both
medium and sitters. The nature of this control varies with the type
of the phenomena which are being examined. Thus with a medium
like Willi Schneider, whose chief phenomena consisted in the alleged
supernormal movements of objects placed inside a gauze cage, it was
not considered necessary by Baron Schrenck-Notzing or E. J.
Dingwall to institute a minute preliminary search of the medium’s
rectum, stomach, nasal cavities, etc., since obviously small objects
secreted in such places would have been of no use to him in the
séance-room where he was unable to free his hands or feet. But if
the medium had, like Eva Carrière, claimed to extrude teleplasm
from his body, such a minute search by a competent medical man
would have been imperative. Hence, in testing Willi Schneider for
telekinesis, a less vigorous search was made, after which he was told
to undress and put on black tights, slippers and a dressing-gown, all
of which had been subjected to careful inspection by the observers—
in this case Baron Schrenck-Notzing, E. J. Dingwall and Harry Price.
§ 4. While the medium is in the séance-room the continuous
control of his hands and legs is vital. In a modem séance two persons
are usually employed to effect this control. One person sits directly
opposite the medium and holds both his hands, at the same time
resting a stockinged foot on each of the medium’s feet. A second
person sits by the side of the medium facing the horseshoe formation
of sitters and holds the medium’s forearms over which luminous
bracelets have been passed just above the wrists. The sitters in
the horseshoe formation usually join hands so that the only person
with a free hand is the person at the extreme end of the circle farthest
from the medium. This person usually controls the red light which
by means of a rheostat can be varied in intensity. The objects to be
moved are often placed on a table surrounded by a cage of fine
gauze stretched on a wooden framework, the objects such as handbells,
etc., being provided with luminous bands.
§ 5. The conditions described above are very roughly those which
prevailed in 1922 in Baron Schrenck-Notzing’s laboratory at Munich
where the medium Willi Schneider was tested for telekinesis. At
some séances witnessed by E. J. Dingwall and Harry Price in May
1922, a table weighing about 33 lb. was observed to rock violently
inside the gauze case at a distance of about 3 feet from the controlled
medium. A handbell outside the cage and at a distance of 2 feet
from the medium was observed to rise in the air to the height of
about 3J feet. The bell hung in the air for some seconds and then
commenced ringing loudly. At times the luminous band on the
bell was partly hidden as though some hand were holding it. A
small wicker table at least 4 feet away from the medium was com­
pletely lifted from the floor to the height of a foot. It was again
noticed that a luminous bracelet on this table was sometimes obscured
as though something opaque was lifting the table. A musical box,
225
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a l is m
previously examined by Dingwall and Price, was wound up by
Baron Schrenck-Notzing and placed on the table in the gauze cage.
The music could be stopped by a lever. When Dingwall told the
music to stop it stopped ; it obeyed the voice of Price also. Thus
it appeared That the lever was operated by some telekinetic force
inside the cage. In one séance of this series, a white handkerchief
placed on the floor near some black curtains was, by the light of a
red lamp, seen to rise up and to remain suspended in the air, “ as if
supported by two fingers.” On one occasion violent thumps were
produced on one side of a board held about 4 feet from the ground
by two of the experimenters, the side of the board away from the
medium being luminous.
§ 6. Such were a few of the remarkable phenomena observed by
Messrs. Dingwall and Price, two of the greatest authorities in the
world in this department of psychical research. They were unani­
mous in the conclusion that the medium himself could not have
normally produced these movements and levitations at the distances
described. The only loophole left for sceptics was to assume that a
confederate was able to gain access to the room by means of secret
trap-doors, etc. But no such trap-doors could be discovered by a
careful search of the premises. Later on Willi Schneider was tested
in the séance-room of the Society for Psychical Research under even
more rigorous conditions. Similar phenomena were observed by
Messrs. Dingwall and Woolley, although these were less pronounced
in intensity. In this case the possibility of a confederate entering
the séance-room was absolutely ruled out since the room has no
window and only one door (which, moreover, was sealed). The only
resource left for Dingwall was to assume that one of his fellow
investigators, say Mr. W. H. Salter, was producing the movements
of objects—a suggestion so ridiculous that it cannot be seriously
entertained. Subsequently Dingwall had Willi Schneider as an
inmate of his house for several weeks and found apparently that when
the control was tightened up no phenomena occurred. He seems also
to have noted one or two suspicious happenings which led him to
modify his former belief in the genuine nature of Willi's phenomena.
But it may well be that Willi's powers were declining at this period,
and that rather than disappoint Dingwall with negative séances he
may have resorted to trickery. His powers now appear to have
disappeared completely. A similar decline seems to have set in with
Willi's brother Rudi, another famous telekinetic medium. Indeed,
it seems exceedingly difficult to doubt the genuineness of Willi's
earlier phenomena in view of the exact description of the conditions
of the séances attended by Dingwall.
§ 7. A man named Kraus deceived Baron Schrenck-Notzing by
fraudulently producing phenomena which he claimed to be somewhat
similar to those produced by Willi Schneider. The writer saw a
demonstration given by Kraus at the S.P.R. rooms. Kraus, whose
hands and feet were controlled after a fashion, managed to insert
his head into the aperture of a cage and so knock over certain
objects inside the cage. But it would be absurd to compare this
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
crude performance with such phenomena as were observed by
Dingwall and Price at Munich. It was very unfortunate that Baron
Schrenck-Notzing should have been deceived by such common
tricksters as Kraus and Schlag ; the man in the street who is totally
ignorant of the technique of the telekinetic séance and unable to
appreciate the difference between two such totally different per­
formances as those of Kraus and Willi Schneider argues illogically
that, since Baron Schrenck-Notzing was deceived by Kraus, therefore
Schneider's phenomena were also fraudulent.
§ 8. Even more elaborate were the precautions taken by Mr.
Harry Price in his investigation of Rudi Schneider. Mr. Price, the
founder of the National Laboratory for Psychical Research and now
the Honorary Secretary of the University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, began his career in the study of physical
mediumship with the advantage of a lifelong study of the arts of
illusion. He was at one time Chairman of the Magic Circle.
§ 9. Mr. Price first became convinced of the reality of telekinesis
by his investigation of a private medium, a young girl of good
education known as Miss Stella C., with whom experiments were
conducted partly in good red light and partly in darkness. Price
constructed many ingenious instrumental devices for testing the
reality of telekinesis. One of these he called the “ telekinetoscope.”
This consisted of a brass cup, inside of which was a small contact
flap which was connected by insulated leads to a small red electric
lamp, a battery being included in the circuit. The lamp could be
lighted only when pressure was exerted on the contact flap inside
the cup. The top of the cup was covered by a strong soap-film so
that the contact flap was protected from any fraudulent interference
from without. Nevertheless, under these conditions the lamp was
seen to light several times during the séance, the soap-film being
found intact. Whether the telekinetic force passed through the
soap-film or the metal cup is not clear. The only way in which I
can imagine this control to be evaded is by some sitter short-circuiting
the apparatus by means of pins stuck into the heavily insulated leads.
§ 10. Another ingenious device used by Price was a pair of tables,
one of which fitted inside the other, the outer table being enclosed
by trellis work and the inner table being provided by a shelf on
which small objects could be placed. The tops of the tables were
concentric squares in the same horizontal plane, and a circular
trap-door was constructed in the top of the inner table. This trap­
door could be opened upwards only by a force exerted from within.
It was therefore impossible for the sitters resting their hands on the
outer table to tamper with any of the small objects enclosed within
the trellis or to raise the trap-door. Yet under these circumstances
chords were blown upon a mouth-organ placed inside the trellis, a
trumpet inside the trellis was blown ; the hinged flap in the table
top was opened and closed several times and a rubber dog handed
out through the trap-door.
§ n . Other phenomena observed with Stella C. were blue flashes
of light sometimes accompanied by a crackling sound above the
227
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l is m
head of the medium or even inside the trellis. By means of a
recording thermometer Price showed that during the sitting there
was a fall in temperature of several degrees. It is, however, possible
that the telekinetic forces may themselves have tampered with the
pin of the thermometer. Raps were heard on the table and appar­
ently on more distant objects. By calling over the alphabet Price
showed that the telekinetic forces were accompanied with intelligence
since appropriate messages were spelled out by the raps. Unfortun­
ately after her marriage Miss Stella C. could not be prevailed upon
to continue these interesting experiments.
§ 12. Rudi Schneider, the brother of the famous Willi Schneider,
is said to have produced telekinetic phenomena at n years of age
in the year 1919. The two brothers hail from Braunau, a little
Austrian town about 70 miles from Munich. Since the year 1921
Rudi appears to have given a large number of sittings to various
investigators, producing phenomena similar in nature to those of his
brother. Professors Karl Prozibram and Stefan Meyer, after witness­
ing Rudi's manifestations in 1924, claimed to have themselves
arranged mock séances at which the same phenomena were imitated
fraudulently. But since they gave no detailed account of the
conditions prevailing at these mock séances, not much weight could
be attached to the exposure. Dr. Prince, the well-known American
researcher, had ten sittings in 1927 at Stuttgart and came away
unconvinced. In 1926 Mr. W. J. Vinton sat several times with
Rudi at the latter's home in Braunau and came to the conclusion
that the movements of objects were fraudulently produced by other
members of the Schneider family concealed in the room. In 1927
Mr. Malcolm Bird, the editor of The Scientific American, also had a
sitting at Braunau and came to the same conclusion of a conspiracy
of fraud.
§ 13. In 1929 Mr. Harry Price had a number of sittings with Rudi
at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research in which not only
the medium but all the sitters were controlled by an electrical device
that had been first used by Baron Schrenck-Notzing. All the sitters
had their hands fixed inside metal gloves and their feet resting on
metal plates. An electrical circuit was thus formed in such a way
that if a sitter let go his neighbours' glove or raised his foot from
a plate, a tell-tale lamp would at once begin to glow. As the principal
charge directed against Rudi's mediumship was the suggestion that
he was assisted by other persons, this new method which Price
substituted for the old method of holding hands was designed as a
check on the sitters themselves. (The writer did not see this
apparatus, which, though it possibly had defects, was certainly a
step in the right direction.) Remarkable telekinetic phenomena
were photographed by flashlight. Objects such as baskets were
levitated and knots tied in a handkerchief.
§ 14. At a further series of sittings at the National Laboratory,
Mr. Price abandoned this system of electrical control and reverted
to the older method of linked hands. At these sittings, minute by
minute records were dictated to a stenographer who was enclosed in
228
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
a gauze cage. Levitations of the handkerchief and movements of
a basket were again observed. One of the photographs taken
unfortunately revealed the medium with a hand free from control
and behind him.
§ 15. Between 10 October and 14 November 1930 Rudi gave a
series of sittings at the Institut Métapsychique, Paris, during the
course of which the director, Dr. E. Osty, claimed to have made some
revolutionary discoveries. Over the handkerchief to be levitated on
the séance table was directed a beam of infra-red light which fell
upon a photo-electric cell. This cell was connected in an electric
circuit with an electric bell. If a person placed his hand in this
beam of light so as to obstruct it the resistance of the cell would be
lowered and the bell begin to ring. The object of this device was to
prevent Rudi or any person from fraudulently lifting the handkerchief.
Osty, of course, assumed that probably the invisible telekinetic
force would not obstruct the beam, whereas a solid object interposed
would be immediately detected. Instead of a bell a flash-light
apparatus and cameras could be introduced into the circuit so that
when the infra-red beam was interrupted to such an extent that at
least 30 per cent, was absorbed or refracted, the flash would be
ignited and photographs taken of the space surrounding the handker­
chief. For many sittings nothing happened, but during the four­
teenth sitting the beam of infra-red was on two occasions obstructed
and the flashlight automatically operated. When Osty examined
the photographs he found to his amazement that no solid object such
as a hand was seen to be obstructing the beam. He thus came to
the conclusion that some substance invisible to the eye of the camera
had forced its way into the beam and that this substance was able
to absorb or refract at least 30 per cent, of the rays. During the
next sitting, Osty replaced the flashlight apparatus by an electric
bell in the infra-red circuit and this bell was heard to ring several
times for as long as a minute and a half. When the bell rang Osty
took flashlight photographs, but again no solid substance revealed
itself as obstructing the beam. It was next found that the medium
Rudi was able to prophesy when the invisible substance was about
to enter the beam. By means of a very sensitive galvanometer
registering small changes in the resistance of the photo-electric
cell, Osty found that the invisible substance oscillated in and
out of the beam at a rate varying from 120 to 420 pulsations per
minute.
§ 16. One remarkable feature of Rudi's mediumship is the
abnormally rapid rate of his respiration while in the alleged trance.
His normal rate of breathing is about 12 to 14 per minute, but in the
trance it varied from 120 to 300 per minute and was of a peculiarly
noisy nature. Osty, by means of a pneumograph, was able to show
that the rate of pulsation of the invisible substance was exactly
double Rudi's rate of respiration. Osty’s publication of these
researches naturally created a lively interest in scientific circles.
Criticism was directed towards the unconvincing manner in which
Dr. Osty had presented his report. Names of sitters were not given
229
Sp ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l is m
nor their positions in the séance-room, etc., and a suspected person
appears to have been allowed to enter certain of the séances.
§ 17. Mr. Harry Price in 1932 obtained what he at first thought to
be confirmation of Osty’s theories of the obstruction of the beam
by an invisible substance, but when he installed more sensitive
apparatus the result were entirely negative. Lord Charles Hope,
working in conjunction with Mr. C. V. C. Herbert and other scientists,
obtained results which they considered favourable to Osty's claims.
The laboratory in which they worked with Rudi was unfortunately
situated close to heavy traffic and subject to strong vibrations which
may have affected the sensitive galvanometers employed.
§ 18. Between October 1933 and March 1934 Rudi gave a series
of fifty sittings in the séance room of the Society for Psychical
Research. Very elaborate infra-red ray apparatus was installed by
Mr. Oliver Gatty working with the assistance of Mr. Theodore
Besterman. In their report the conditions obtaining at the experi­
ments are most carefully described. No telekinetic phenomena of
any kind were observed nor any absorption of the infra-red rays.
Every chance seems to have been given Rudi to produce his pheno­
mena under rigid but sympathetic conditions. It was found, by a
chemical analysis of the expired air, that Rudi’s rapid but shallow
breathing involves no more exertion than a normal man undergoes
while walking at 4 miles per hour. Mr. Gatty successfully imitated
the breathing and showed that it is more spectacular than abnormal.
It was further shown by Mr. Whately Carington, using the psycho­
galvanic-reflex, that the medium's spirit control " Olga," who claims
to be the ghost of a Spanish dancing-girl, Lola Montez, is in reality
indistinguishable in psychological make-up from Rudi himself. Thus
the phenomena attributed to Rudi Schneider still await confirmation.
It should be added that the violent spasms and contortions of the
medium during the alleged trance, the forced gaiety of the sitters,
the loud singing demanded by " Olga," the control, and the noisy
breathing all combine to produce an atmosphere that must be very
unfavourable to exact scientific observation.
TELEPLASM AND TELEKINETIC STRUCTURES
§ 19. Teieplasm or Ectoplasm is a baffling substance which is said
to be extruded from the mouth, ears, nostrils, or genitals of certain
mediums. In the descriptions given by different observers of the
appearance of this substance there is no uniformity whatever. The
alleged teleplasm photographed by the late Dr. Crawford looked like
white chiffon and was said to exude from the genitals of the medium,
Miss Kathleen Goligher. That produced by the medium Eva
Carrière resembled flat sheets of paper in which folds and cracks
could often be distinguished. The teleplasm of the American
medium " Margery " had the appearance of animal lung-tissue and
was declared to be such by Harvard experts. The teleplasm which
exuded from the mouth of the fraudulent Mrs. Duncan had the
appearance of cheese-cloth soaked in fat and undoubtedly was
cheese-cloth.
230
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
j 20. Some observers describe the substance as being inert while
others declare that it squirms and wriggles. It is said to be plastic,
to mould itself into hands and heads and even into the complete
forms of animals and human beings. It can also organize itself into
rigid rods which are used to produce loud raps and into cantilevers
which support heavy tables in the air. In fact, the variety of its
functions is as amazing as the alterations in its appearance. It is a
most chameleon-like form of matter. And, strange to say, all
mediums who produce it are sooner or later accused of fraud. One
of the teleplasms produced by Eva Carrière appeared to be a sheet
of paper which bore the printed characters LE MIRO, the rest of
the word MIROIR being hidden by the medium's head. Other
photographed examples appeared to contain portraits of Poincaré,
President Wilson, the King of Bulgaria, and others, all apparently
cut out of the same French newspaper Le M iroir. Baron Schrenck-
Notzing tried to show that the search and medical examination of
Eva was so rigid that these apparent newspaper cuttings must have
been genuine teleplasms. He also maintained that they were
different in appearance from real newspaper cuttings surrounded by
muslin. It cannot be said, however, that his arguments produced
much conviction. The late Dr. Geley also experimented with
Eva C., and though he assured us that the medium's hands were
always held and in sight during the production of the teleplasm,
yet in the only four published photographs which show both hands,
no less than three of these show Eva with both hands free ! Such
facts as these indicate just how much value is to be attached to the
assertions of experimenters that a medium is rigorously controlled.
§ 2i. Under the name of Marthe Béraud, Eva C. had materialized
for Professor Richet at Algiers a complete Egyptian princess, who
allowed Richet to cut a piece fromher hair ! But during hisinvestiga­
tion of Eva C., Baron Schrenck-Notzing refrained from informing
the world that his medium was none other than the notorious Marthe
Béraud of shady reputation.
§ 22. It is said that the Polish medium Kluski materialized not
only solid, speaking human beings, but also birds and a hairy beast
christened Pithecanthropus, who used to lick the sitters' faces in the
darkness. Kluski's human forms were also able to dip their hands
in melted wax and withdraw them, leaving behind wax gloves. In
recent years it has been fully demonstrated that such gloves can be
imitated by normal means. If we compare these full-blooded solid
forms attributed to Kluski with the two-dimensional figures and
immobile parchment-like faces produced by Eva C., we must either
give up all hope of ever understanding such irreconcilable protean
phenomena or arrive at the more rational conclusion that both
Kluski and Eva Carrière have, despite all alleged precautions taken,
succeeded in introducing material into the séance room by fraud.
TELEKINETIC STRUCTURES
§23. The late Dr. W. J. Crawford, a lecturer in Mechanical
Engineering at Belfast, spent six years (1914-20) in attempting to
231
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l is m
elucidate the mechanics of table levitation. The medium was Miss
Kathleen Goligher and the circle of sitters consisted of the medium's
three sisters, brother, father and brother-in-law. This circle sat
holding hands in chain order in a dim red light, forming a ring of
about 5 feet in diameter, the table which weighed about 8 lb. being
placed in the centre of the ring. Thus, with seven possible mediums
to control (i.e. 14 legs) and his apparatus to look after, did Crawford
single-handedcommence his hopeless task. By placing the medium's
chair on a weighing machine he observed that when the table was
levitated, the weight recorded was increased by the weight of the
table, thus showing that the table was supported by some structure
rigidly attached to the medium's body. This structure, Crawford
maintained, was a psychic cantilever emanating from the lower part
of the medium's body and packed with matter drawn from the
medium in a form unknown to science. The same increase in weight
would of course have been recorded if the medium were supporting
the table with her foot. According to the replies of the invisible
operators who answered Crawford's questions by means of raps, this
cantilever had a diameter of about 4 inches and proceeded almost
horizontally from the medium's body until it was under the table,
at which point it formed a right-angled bend upwards and expanded
into a mushroom-shaped head covering almost the entire under­
surface of the table. At the point where the column of the cantilever
left the medium's body its diameter was increased to about 7 inches.
§ 24. This simple type of cantilever was (according to the " spirits ")
used only for raising comparatively light bodies like the 8-lb. table.
When a heavier table was to be raised the invisible “ operators "
claimed that they first threw out from the medium's body a downward
strut whose end rested on the floor; from this point on the floor
the “ spirits " built up another upward sloping column whose end
supported the table. Thus the weight of the table was in this case
taken by the floor and the medium and her chair on the weighing
machine would show a decrease in weight owing to the upward reaction
on her body of the vertical component of thrust from the psychic
strut. The horizontal component of this same reaction would tend
to push her chair backwards along the floor. By mounting the
medium's seat on a pair of bicycle wheels, Crawford claimed to have
verified the last effect. He claimed also to be able to locate the
point at which the invisible strut rested on the floor by using a
spring-pressure contact inserted in an electric circuit with an electric
bell which was heard to ring continuously when the correct point
on the floor was located.
§ 25. On one occasion Crawford asked the operators to take out
of the medium's body as much “ psychic matter " as they were able
and to lay it on the floor without building up any cantilever. The
“ spirits " gave three raps when this was supposed to be done, and
it was found that the weight of the medium whose chair was on the
weighing machine, had decreased by about 54 lb.!
§26. Although these rods and cantilevers packed with matter
were generally invisible in the dim red light, yet on occasions they
232
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
could be photographed by flashlight. These photographs, published
after Crawford's untimely death in the summer of 1920, reveal loops
and bands of a soft white muslin-like substance which unfortunately
are not consistent with Crawford's previous descriptions of the struts,
cantilevers, etc. Moreover, none of the photographs show the table
with its four legs completely off the floor.
§27. After Dr. Crawford's suicide in 1920, the investigation of
Kathleen Goligher was continued by Dr. Fournier D'Albe for about
4 months. This investigator appears to have made up his mind
that he was being tricked by the various members of the Goligher
family. Beyond noting one or two suspicious incidents, Fournier
D'Albe obtained results that were almost entirely negative. This is
very unfortunate. If I had had charge of the Goligher investigation
I should first have gained the confidence of the family and then have
proceeded to repeat all Crawford's results under his own lax conditions.
I should then have gradually modified those conditions by introducing
new apparatus in such a way as not to arouse the suspicions of the
medium and her relatives. By this means I should have discovered
why Crawford obtained the results he did. It is far from certain
that all Crawford's results were due to fraud on the part of Miss
Goligher and her family. All we can truly say is that Crawford's
results were obtained under hopeless conditions. No one can say
what the people seated round that table were doing with their legs
and hands. If the table-levitations were fraudulent, then almost
certainly the raps were fraudulent and the theories of the psychic
cantilever must be ascribed to the more intelligent members of the
family. These members would therefore know the various reactions
that ought to be observed when the medium was seated on the
bicycle wheels and weighing-machine, and, being uncontrolled, they
could assist in the fraudulent production of such expected reactions.
SPIRIT LIGHTS
§ 28. Numerous mediums have produced luminous phenomena
either by fraud or by supernormal means. Dr. Speer reports that
at the séances of Stainton Moses, he saw between thirty and forty
luminous balls about as big as apples rise from the floor. Podmore
believed these to be glass globes filled with phosphorous oil. It
appears that one day there was an accident, for Stainton Moses
himself describes how he suddenly found himself enveloped in clouds
of smoke and rushed out of the roomin a panic. He noticed a strong
smell of phosphorus. This incident appears to be the basis of
Podmore's conjecture. Similar globes of light were seen by Lord
Adare with the medium Home. Eusapia Palladino produced various
kinds of lights, some of which resembled the sparks from an electric
machine.
§ 29. Phosphorescent lights were seen by the writer at the séances
of the American medium, Amy Burton, who visited this country
under the pseudonym Ada Bessinet in 1921. These lights appeared
suddenly in the darkness in quick succession, rising and disappearing.
They were dearly reflected in the polished surface of the table around
s.o. 233 0
Sp ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
which we were sitting. Dr. Hyslop confessed that he was totally
unable to imitate these lights by any means known to him and, in
fact, they were the only phenomena observed with this medium
that appeared to be genuine. She was, in fact, an hysterical subject
who, uncontrolled in any way, used to go into a state of self-hypnosis
and to move tambourines and other objects in the dark. It is
doubtful if she was consciously fraudulent.
5 30. Bluish flashes of light were often observed in the vicinity of
the medium Frau Silbert, who sat in a good red light. These flashes
were probably fraudulent, for they could be imitated by rubbing
ferro-cerium on the fingers. The other phenomena produced by this
medium, who was totally uncontrolled, consisted in the scratching
of the name of the medium's control, “ Nell," on cigarette-cases, etc.,
placed under the table by the sitters at the beginning of the séance.
These objects were then thrown up into the medium's lap. As it
was impossible to see what was going on in the darkness beneath
the table, there is every reason to believe that the medium freed a
foot from one of her shoes and manipulated the engraving tool with
her toes, afterwards jerking the object into her lap. “ Spirit hands "
would often seize the skirts of the ladies from underneath the table,
but if one ventured to look downwards the tugs at the skirts would
cease. Such is the devastating effect of human eyesight !
531. The writer also observed lights at the séances of Mrs. Blanche
Cooper. These would vary in appearance from vague amorphous
patches to bright bluish disks about the size of a half-crown. They
never remained stationary. I am fairly certain that this luminosity
was on the finger-tips of the medium's right hand, which was free,
for the dark outlines of three or four fingers appeared sometimes
against the light. It could probably have been fraudulently produced
by rubbing phosphorus on the fingers. As the mental phenomena
exhibited by thismedium were undoubtedly genuine it is just possible
that the luminosity was also supemormally produced. It has proved
impossible to examine “ spirit " lights by means of the spectroscope
as they do not remain still enough for observation.
§ 32. In the case of certain mediums, the lights have been definitely
proved to be fraudulent. Thus Mr. Price found that the medium
P. Erto produced lights by rubbing ferro-cerium on his fingers. When
his hands were fastened inside wooden boxes no lights appeared.
Moreover, ferro-cerium was found on the floor next morning : but
the bluish flashes produced in the vicinity of Stella C. are worth
recording as possibly genuine luminous phenomena of a supernormal
nature.
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY
§ 33. There is perhaps no phase of mediumship to which spiritualists
cling more tenaciously than the alleged appearance, on photographic
plates, of the faces of deceased persons, and we may add that for
no class of phenomena is the evidence more contemptible. A person
visits one of these photographic mediums taking with him an
unopened packet of plates which he himself has purchased. He may
234
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
even sign his name on the plate before it is put into the slide so as
to be able to recognize it as the same plate after the process of
developing. The camera having been loaded, the sitter poses for
his photograph. The medium will even allow him to develop the
plate in the dark room. After development there will usually be
seen on the plate what is known as an " extra/' By this is meant
that by the side of the sitter's head will be seen another human face
with perhaps rather blurred features. This face may or may not
be surrounded by what appears to be a mass of cotton wool. The
sitter is perhaps mourning the loss of a wife or a brother. Into the
vague features of the spirit " extra " his imagination will read a
likeness to the lineaments of the dear departed one. After a time
his memory of the deceased relative will grow more and more distorted
until he identifies it with the face on the photograph. A disinterested
person, on being shown the psychic “ extra " and an actual photo
of the deceased, will perhaps notice very little real resemblance,
but the sitter sees what he desires to see. But if the sitter is an
acute and experienced observer he will have noticed that at some
stage in the production of the photograph the medium will have
handled the plate or the loaded slide even though it may be but for
a few seconds. It is during those few seconds that the psychic
“ extra " is fraudulently produced.
§ 34. Like most other spiritualistic phenomena, spirit-photography
hails from America. The first photographic medium of whom I can
find any account is a man named Mumler of Boston, U.S.A., to whose
rooms spiritualists came in the year 1862 in order to obtain spirit
photographs of their deceased relatives. It was found, however,
that certain of the “ extras " which had done duty for various
deceased persons were in reality the likeness of a living person whom
Mumler had apparently “ posed " for the spirit.
§ 35. In 1872 there appeared in England a spirit photographer
named Hudson who worked apparently in conjunction with the
medium Mrs. Guppy of “ translation " fame. Hudson, it would
seem, used the method of “ double-exposure" to produce his extras,
since in some photos the patterns of a carpet showed through the
body of the sitter. In other extras the medium himself had posed
for the spirit.
§ 36. Far more important, however, was the case of the French
photographer Buguet who came to London in 1874. Buguet obtained
spirit extras of a large number of well-known spiritualists such as
the deceased Alan Kardec. He also claimed to have obtained on a
plate a photo of the spiritualist Stainton Moses while the latter was
still alive but said to be in a trance. But Buguet's fame rested
chiefly on the large number of recognitionsof his spirit extras claimed
by living relatives of the deceased. In June 1875 Buguet was
arrested in France for fraudulent practices, and the police discovered
in his studio a large stock of heads used for the production of spirit
extras. At the trial Buguet made a full confession of his frauds.
In spite of this confession, numerous individuals who were called as
witnesses protested vehemently that the photos Buguet had produced
*35
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a l ism
were genuine likenesses of their deceased friends. Even when
Buguet himself stated emphatically that a certain likeness, which a
sitter claimed as genuine, was due to pure chance, the sitter refused
to believe that this was so. As in the case of every spirit photographer
of which we have record, the spiritualists refused to believe that
Buguet was not a genuine medium and even suggested that he had
been bribed by the Jesuits to make a bogus confession. So hard
does spirit photography die !
§ 37. Passing over such mediums as Boursnell, whose work showed
definite signs of the use of double-exposure, we come to the most
important spirit-photographer who has practised after the great
European War—William Hope of Crewe. Hope, an extremely
uneducated man, a carpenter by trade, was assisted by a working
woman, Mrs. Buxton, the pair constituting what was known as the
“ Crewe Circle/' There is little reason to believe that Mrs. Buxton
took any part in the fraudulent manipulations attributed to Hope.
She was merely present at the sittings to provide the " psychic
power '' said to be necessary for the production of the spirit extras,
and she may even have sincerely beHeved that Hope was genuine.
Hope began his career, apparently, by using the method of double
exposure. Until the year 1922 all the extras appear as heads swathed
in large masses of cotton wool. Many of these extras were identified
as copies of photos published in newspapers and magazines, and
while the cotton-wool effect was claimed to represent “ ectoplasm "
its real use seems to have been to disguise the edges of the cutting.
In the opinion of Mr. Fred Barlow, who had many hundreds of
sittings with Hope, the medium first cut out the photo from the
newspaper, surrounded the cutting with a halo of cotton wool, and
then photographed the ensemble against a carefully prepared back­
ground. While the sitters' attention was momentarily distracted in
the dark room, Hope would substitute this prepared plate for the
one chosen by the sitter from his own packet. In some cases the
sitter may even have signed the prepared plate under the impression
that he was signing the plate he had brought. The photos taken
from the newspapers would generally be those of notable spiritualists
or other well-known people. Hope no doubt applied the same
method to actual photos of deceased persons when he was able to
obtain them. The prepared plate, after substitution, was of course
placed in the camera and used to take a photo of the sitter.
§ 38. Mr. Barlow and Major Rampling Rose obtained very dear
evidence that this method was actually used by Hope prior to 1922.
When a photographic plate is put into a dark slide it does not fit
exactly, i.e. there is some play for movement. Consequently, as the
plate is protected at the edges from the action of light by the rebates
of the slide, the unexposed edges are marked by fairly definite lines.
Hence, owing to this play of movement, it is extremely difficult to
put the same plate a second time into the same slide so that it will
occupy exactly the same position as on the first occasion. Hence,
when the plate is exposed a second time, there will be a double
exposure line. In this way an expert photographer like Mr. Barlow
Sp ir it u a l is m S pir it u a lism
or Major Rampling Rose can often say that a given plate has been
subjected to two exposures. Many of Hope's negatives showed
such marks. Moreover, it was shown that, on certain occasions,
different cuttings or photographs had been posed by Hope in the
same halo of cotton wool.
§ 39. In 1922 Mr. Harry Price obtained direct proof that Hope
used the method of substitution of plates. He arranged with a well-
known firm of manufacturers of photographic plates that they should
prepare for him a packet of plates each of which had been marked
by X-rays with a secret design. This design would remain invisible
until the plates were developed. Mr. Price had a sitting with Hope
and took with him the new unopened packet of secretly marked
plates. Hope, seeing that the packet produced by Price had never
been opened, had no suspicions of a trap. The sitting duly proceeded
according to the usual rites, and on one of the developed plates
there appeared an " extra " which Mr. Price pretended to recognize
as the likeness of a deceased relative. Mr. Price retrieved his
negatives and proceeded to a photographer's studio where, in the
presence of a witness, he developed the remainder of his plates. The
secret mark appeared on all the plates bar the one which contained
the psychic " extra " : showing conclusively that Hope had sub­
stituted a prepared plate for one of those brought by Mr. Price.
Thus does science outwit the fraudulent medium.
§ 40. After this exposure, sitters appear to have insisted on
signing their names on the plates to safeguard themselves against
substitution. In the new extras produced by Hope the spirit heads
were no longer swathed in “ ectoplasm " or cotton wool. The double
exposure lines no longer appeared on the edges of the plates. It
appeared that Hope was using a new method. It was shown by
Mr. Barlow and Major Rampling Rose that the new spirit photographs
could all be produced by the use of a pocket flash-light apparatus
so minute that it could be concealed in the palm of the hand. A
small “ positive " face was placed in front of the flash-light bulb,
and, if one switched on the light at a propitious moment for a second
or two, the image would be imprinted on the plate. The wires
attaching the bulb to the battery could easily be made to pass up
the sleeve of the operator. Hope was never detected using this
apparatus, but there was one suspicious occasion when a bulge was
noted in one of his pockets and the sitter, Mr. Mosely, suspecting
concealed apparatus, asked Hope to allow himself to be searched.
Hope refused, leaving the room. On his return he expressed willing­
ness to be searched, but, of course, he had during his absence ample
opportunity of disposing of any incriminating properties.
§ 41. Sometimes, though more rarely, the “ extra " which appeared
on the plate was not a spirit face but a short message in the hand­
writing of some prominent deceased spiritualist. Such photographic
extras have been called “ scotographs " or “ psychographs." Thus
Hope obtained messages purporting to come from Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle, Archdeacon Colley, Dr. Crawford, and many others. In
each case the handwriting was undoubtedly that of the deceased
237
S p ir it u a l is m
S p ir it u a l ism
person, but Hope had received letters at some time or other from
each of these various personalities who were all prominent in the
spiritualist world. Mr. Barlow has demonstrated very clearly how
Hope produced these psychographs. There is no doubt that, having
numerous letters in his possession from (say) the late Dr. Crawford,
Hope cut out a word here and a word there until an intelligible
sentence was obtained. The separate bits of paper bearing the words
were then carefully pasted together and the whole was photographed.
Sometimes the scissor marks appear in the photograph ; sometimes
they are concealed by means of cotton wool or some such material.
In other " scotographs " which appear to be in Hope's own hand­
writing disguised as copperplate, the scissor marks are absent : but
there are words misspelled in exactly the same way as Hope habitu­
ally misspelled them in his private letters. Hope died a few years
ago. Nevertheless, his psychic “ extra ” has already appeared on
the photographic plates of the new mediums who are practising
to-day and using the same methods. Thus the ghost of a fraud
becomes after his death a fraudulent ghost.
DIRECT VOICE
§ 42. It has been alleged that, at certain séances, voices are heard
to speak which do not issue from any human larynx or from any
mechanical instruments of reproduction. Such voices, it is further
alleged, are produced by the spirits of deceased persons who
“ materialize ” a larynx out of teleplasm extracted from the medium’s
body. In order, it is said, to render more audible these faint “ spirit ”
voices, a cardboard or aluminium trumpet is provided. This hollow
cone or trumpet into which the spirits speak is levitated by them
and sometimes carried round the room. Séances for the “ direct
voice ” are almost invariably held in darkness, and generally the
medium has his hands free and so is able to manipulate the trumpet.
If the medium points the trumpet to the ceiling and speaks into the
narrow end the “ spirit ” voice appears to issue from a region high
above the sitters’ heads ; if he directs the trumpet towards the floor
the voice seems to come out of the ground. Thus the inexperienced
sitters are deceived as to the true origin of the voices.
§ 43. Recently, a young man wishing to escape from his occupation
in a barber’s shop, told me that he had decided to " develop " as a
spirit medium and asked me to advise him as to what branch of
mediumship he should cultivate. As the young fellow was an
excellent mimic I unhesitatingly recommended the “ direct voice "
as being far more impressive than ordinary trance-speaking. I
warned him, however, to be on the look-out for secret installations
of infra-red rays and also to avoid such a disastrous contretemps as
happened to Frederick Tansley Munnings.
§ 44. It appears that Munnings was one day consoling his audience
with the alleged voices of their spirit friends when, by an unfortunate
accident, the electric light was switched on, revealing Munnings
holding the trumpet by means of a telescopic extension piece and
an angle piece which he was using in a laudable attempt to increase
238
S p ir it u a lism Sp ir it u a lism
the effect of his auditory illusions. This same Munnings was also
an adept at reproducing the barkings of our canine spirit friends.
At a séance at which I was present a very passable imitation of a
barking dog was produced and a lady present exclaimed, " It's
darling Fido ; I'd know his bark anywhere ! " Munnings was most
painstaking. When he received a letter headed with the address
of some person who wished to be admitted to his séances, he would
even go to the length of visiting the locality in which the prospective
sitter lived and having primed himself with a few choice bits of
information would afterwards retail these through the trumpet as a
spirit communication from the sitter's deceased relatives.
§45. Another notorious fraud was the American direct-voice
medium George Valiantine, who came to England in 1924 and gave
sittings to the late Mr. H. Dennis Bradley. Valiantine had been
previously exposed by a committee appointed by the Scientific
American, who attached an electrical contrivance to his chair so
that, if he vacated it during the séance, a light would be extinguished
in the adjoining room. It was found that while persons were receiv­
ing “ spirit " touches in a distant part of the séance room Valiantine
had left his chair on fifteen occasions, some being for periods of
eighteen seconds at a time. Later on in 1931 Valiantine was again
exposed by Mr. Bradley himself: Valiantine was attempting to
produce fraudulent “ spirit " finger-prints in wax. Mr. Bradley,
however, maintained in his books Towards the Stars and The Wisdom
of the Gods that Valiantine produced mental phenomena of a super­
normal character. There is, I submit, small reason to agree with
Mr. Bradley in this. Bradley, though a writer of some verve and
imagination, possessed neither the training nor the temperament of
a psychical researcher. His records of cases in which “ spirits " are
said to have proved their identity are so lacking in detail as to be
almost worthless. And, apart from the totally inadequate analysis
and recording, Bradley's sittingswith Valiantine are full of suspicious
incidents. Thus a spirit addressing Miss Rebecca West, the authoress,
gives his name as “ Grandfather West," whereas “ West " was only
a pen-name assumed by the essayist. Lady Troubridge and Mr.
Harry Price have put on record other incidents which tend to reflect
onValiantine's probity. But for a thorough exposition of the dubious
quality of his alleged spirit communications, the reader cannot do
better than consult Mrs. W. H. Salter's admirable paper entitled
“ The History of George Valiantine " in the Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, Part 125, Vol. XL.
§ 46. The “ direct voice " is said to have been heard occasionally
at the trance sittings of Mrs. Osborne Leonard. In 1933 the writer,
in conjunction with Dr. Irons, devised a method for locating the
amount of displacement of this voice from the medium's mouth by
using two microphones. The experiment was duly carried out by
Mr. Theodore Besterman and Mr. Gerald Heard, but although the
alleged voice was heard on three or four occasions during the séance
no displacement could be detected. It seems probable that the
effect was merely a ventriloquia! illusion.
239
S p ir it u a lism S p ir it u a lism
§ 47. To sum up.—There is very little evidence that the so-called
“ direct voice " has any existence as a supernormal phenomenon.
It seems probable that in almost all cases the medium's own larynx
is the source of the alleged voice ; possibly, in certain dark séances,
unscrupulous sitters may also assist in producing the illusion of two
voices speaking at the same time. It is, however, possible that
certain mediums like Mrs. Blanche Cooper may use their vocal
organs in an automatic manner—i.e., without being fully conscious
of the movements of the larynx, tongue, etc. Such mediums speak
automatically in much the same way as certain others write auto­
matically. In eitherevent, thereis in operation a streamof conscious­
ness that is dissociated from the normal consciousness of the subject,
as well as a distraction of attention from the movements of the hand
or vocal organs.
POLTERGEIST PHENOMENA
§48. The name “ Poltergeist” [= Noisy Ghost] is applied to a
class of mysterious disturbances which have been reported in all
parts of Europe during the last three hundred years. These pheno­
mena, which are apparently purposeless in character, include inexplic­
able noises and rappings, the throwing of stones and smashing of
crockery by unseen agencies, the upsetting of furniture, etc. One
prevailing characteristic of these outbreaks is the progressive mildness
in the reported phenomena as one passes from accounts retailed at
second or third hand to first-hand narratives. Thus when Joseph
Glanvill, in Sadducismus Triumphatus (1689), recounts the hearsay
happenings in Mr. Mompesson's house, he mentioned such marvels
as “ a gentleman who found all hismoney turned blackin his pockets,"
“ a vision of a Great Body with two red and glaring Eyes," and " a
horse found one morning with a hind leg fixed so firmly in its mouth
that it was difficult for several men to get it out with a lever." But
when Glanvill himself visited the house all he saw and heard was
“ two little modest Girls in a Bed between seven and eleven years
old " and “ a scratching in the bed as loud as one with long Nails
could make upon a Bolster " followed by a “ panting like a dog "
and the shaking of the windows.
§ 49. In nearly all manifestations of poltergeist, the disturbance
seems to centre round the person of some young boy or girl in the
household. Thus in the accounts of the haunted parsonage at
Epworth where John Wesley was bom, the noises seemed to follow
young Hetty Wesley about the house with marked attention, and
she was observed to tremble in her sleep when “ Old Jeffeiy " the
polteigeist was at work.
§ 5°; A considerable number of cases of poltergeist have been
investigated by the Society for Psychical Research during recent
years. In a majority of these cases it was shown that the probable
culprit responsible for the mischievous pranks was an adolescent of
neurotic temperament. These young people were subject to nervous
tics, spasmodic twitchings, and so forth, and often repressed by their
parents. To attract the attention of the newspapers and the neigh-
240
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
hours, to outwit everyone by throwing about pieces of coal and
potatoes without ever being seen in the act, no doubt gave these
young neurotics a compensatory feeling of self-importance and a
means of escape from their inferiority complexes. It is however
probable that in some cases the culprit is a genuine hysterical subject
who plays the poltergeist without being aware of it afterwards.
The almost superhuman cleverness with which certain of these young
people escape the vigilance of the observers suggests that their senses
of hearing and of sight are in a state of hyperacuity.
§ 51. The late Mr. Hewart McKenzie relates the case of a mill-girl
of whom it was reported that threads on the looms were apt to snap
when shewent near them. Mr. McKenzie brought the girl toLondon
to be an inmate of his house where she was employed in the kitchen.
Pans were thrown from the shelves and much crockery and furniture
smashed, but no one ever caught the young woman in the act of
throwing an object. Although Mr. McKenzie applied his eye
diligently to the keyhole of the kitchen door nothing ever happened
while he was watching.
§ 52. It is, of course, possible that some poltergeist phenomena
may be spontaneous cases of genuine telekinesis. This may have
been so with that Roumanian girl, Eleonore Zugun, who was kept
under observation for some weeks at the National Laboratory of
Psychical Research in October 1926. Coins placed in marked
positions were observed to fall to the floor in distant parts of the
room under circumstances that rendered any normal explanation
extremely improbable.
Pa r t III
T h e M e n t a l P h e n o m e n a of S p ir it u a lism
THE MEDIUMISTIC TRANCE
§ I. It is well known that while we are asleep some part of our
mind often remains awake and alive to external impressions. Thus
a mother who would sleep soundly through a storm yet awakes at
the slightest murmur from her sick child. Again, we can often
determine to rise at an unaccustomed early hour and succeed in
doing so. Some portion of our mind, therefore, must be conscious
of the passing of time.
§ 2. When a person is hypnotized, only a part of his mind is asleep.
The other portion remains awake to the suggestions of the hypnotist;
these suggestions it accepts blindly because the reasoning powers
are asleep just as they are when a dreamer accepts the absurd
situations that arise in his dreams. The mediumistic trance would
appear to be a state of self-induced hypnosis during which the
medium's mind is awake not only to its own dream fantasies but
also to the conversation of the persons present at the sitting. Like
the ordinary hypnotic subject, the medium remembers little or
nothing of what has occurred during her trance. Mrs. Leonard, the
241
S p ir it u a l is m
S p ir it u a l ism
well-known English trance-medium, told me that she was sometimes
disturbed at night by fragments of trance conversations invading
her mind. When a medium has once acquired the habit of self­
hypnosis she goes to sleep very quickly when left to herself, but
often resists the attempts of another person to hypnotize her. Thus
Professor James did not succeed in hypnotizing Mrs. Piper, the
famous Boston medium. When, however, she had put herself
to sleep he was able by suggestion to create a fresh hypnotic condi­
tion that was characterized by nervous excitement and muscular
twitchings.
§ 3. It is well known that the hypnotist can by suggestion cause
his subject to imagine that he is Napoleon or some other exalted
character. The subject, who is asleep to the realities of his normal
existence, will play the part assigned to him with all the knowledge
and histrionic power at his disposal. In fact, the more he knows
about Napoleon the better the impersonation will be. In the same
way the medium who practises self-hypnosis soon learns to play an
imaginary role in her sleep. She speaks in the character of some
personage that is congenial to her, and by constant practice the pose
becomes almost second nature. Imaginative children do the same
sort of thing in their day-dreams, posing to themselves and to their
comrades as the hero in some interminable saga.
§ 4. Such an imaginary character appearing in a medium's trance
is known as a “ control." The origin of the “ control'' may be
some stray suggestion that has been repressed into the medium's
subconscious mind. For instance, Mrs. Piper had once been
acquainted with a blind medium of the name of Cocke who himself
possessed a " control" claiming to be Albert G. Finnett, a French
medical man of the barber-surgeon school. Now, when Mrs. Piper
herself became a medium a “ control" soon appeared who called
himself Phinuit, and like Cocke's Finnett also claimed to be an old
French doctor. This Phinuit gave his complete name as Jean
Phinuit Schlevelle and stated that he was bom at Marseilles some­
where about the year 1790, that he had studied medicine at Metz
and died at 70 years of age from the leprosy. The resemblance
between Finnett and Phinuit, who both claimed to be French doctors,
is sufficiently strong to reveal the probable origin of Mrs. Piper's
Phinuit who controlled her trances for a good many years. Though
claiming to be a Frenchman Phinuit was totally unable to converse
in French, and when asked for an explanation of this extraordinary
deficiency accounted for it by saying that he had lived so long among
English people at Metz that he had forgotten his native language f
It is doubtful if Phinuit even understood French when he heard i t ;
it is certain that he failed to recognize the French names of remedies
that would have been well known to a medical man of his own day.
Yet, though he knewlittle of medicine, it is saidthat he was sometimes
able to diagnose the pains and aches of people who visited Mrs.
Piper and even to prescribe simple remedies.
§ 5. The ostensible function of the “ control" is to guard the
medium's organism during the trance and also to fetch from the
242
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l is m
spirit world the spirits of the deceased relatives with whom the
sitter wishes to communicate. Usually the “ control ” claims to be
able to “ see ” these deceased friends of the sitter and begins to
describe their personal appearance as it was during life, even to the
details of the clothes they used to wear. Now this is in itself very
remarkable. The “ control ” claims to derive these sartorial details
from the “ spirit ” himself, who, to the " control/' shows pictures
of his earthly appearance. But if a person on earth were trying to
establish his identity over the telephone, surely the last thing he
would dream of describing would be the cut of his suit or the type
of his hat or the shape of his nose ! How many people could give
any accurate description of their own features ? Yet these are the
details that are always first volunteered as proofs of identity. Does
it not suggest irresistibly that the medium is describing the deceased
person not as he appeared to himself but as the sitter remembered
him in life ? These descriptions are often fairly accurate and go
far beyond what could be arrived at by mere guesswork. They
strongly suggest that what the medium sees is a picture of the
deceased derived telepathically from the sitter's memory.
§ 6. According to Jung, while our friends are alive we direct
towards them a certain amount of psychical energy in thinking of
their careers and the relation of their lives to our own. But when
the friend dies this stream of mental energy recoils upon itself and
becomes concentrated not upon the man himself but upon his image
which we retain in our memories. We may thus suppose that this
image becomes endowed with so much psychical energy that it can
be discerned by the entranced medium through his telepathic faculty.
We have seen that Phinuit failed to establish his claims to identity.
Nor do the spirit “ controls ” of other mediums fare any better
when we examine their claims. The spirit control “ Uvani ” of
Mrs. Eileen Garrett claimed to be an Arabian, but when the writer
took an authority on Oriental languages to hear “ Uvani ” this
authority declaredemphaticallythat the English spoken by “ Uvani "
bore no resemblance to that which an Arabian would use if he had
learnt our language. The majority of these controls claim to be
young girls or children who affect a sort of broken English which is
sometimes engaging and sometimes exasperating to the listener.
Many of them profess to be Indian girls, but the kind of pidgin-
English they speak is not in the least convincing. The emergence
of the child-control is no doubt a phenomenon of infantile regression.
§ 7. Interesting work is being done at present on the nature of
these controls by Mr. Whately Carington, who makes use of word
reaction times and of the psycho-galvanic reflex. Very briefly
indeed, Mr. Carington's method may be outlined as follows. Let
us suppose that a list of, say, 100 carefully chosen test words is called
out one by one to a person, A, who is asked to reply to each word
as quickly as possible with the first word that comes into his head.
Each reply is noted and the times taken recorded in fractions of a
second by means of a stop-watch. Now imagine that A has, like
George Borrow, a fanatical hatred of the Roman Catholic religion,
243
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
and suppose that the list of words contains a word such as Jesuit.
When tins word is fired unexpectedly at A a considerable commotion
will be caused in his subconscious mind and this mental disturbance
may tend to make him hesitate in his reply and so prolong his reac­
tion time beyond the normal. Another effect of this sudden probing
of A's subconscious mind will be physiological and will manifest
itself by a sudden decrease in the electrical resistance of the sub­
ject's skin. If the subject sits with his feet in baths containing
salt solution into which electrodes are dipped it will be possible to
measure this change in resistance by means of a sensitive galvano­
meter. The magnitude of the deflection of the galvanometer will
constitute in fact a sort of measure of the degree of the disturbance
produced by the test word. Now if we read out the same list to A
on five different occasions, noting the reaction times or galvanometer
deflections as the case may be, these five samples supply us with
a sort of numerical picture of A's subconscious reactions to the
given list of words. Using the same list, we may then fire it off
at another person, B, on five different occasions, noting again the
deflections or reaction times. After the readings have been cor­
rected for sensitivity, etc., Mr. Carington will apply an elaborate
statistical method (called the Analysis of Variance) which will enable
him to say what significant degrees of difference and of similarity
there are between the subconscious reactions of the two personalities
A and B. In practice the method of reaction times proved more
reliable than the use of the psycho-galvanic reflex.
§ 8. It was at first hoped that the method might enable us to
identify definitely an individual mind by its mental measurements,
just as the finger-print system enables us to identify individual
bodies. Had this been possible, we should have been provided with
a marvellous instrument for testing the identity of those personalities
which, manifesting through mediums, claim to be the spirits of our
deceased friends. It would only be necessary to record a man's
reactions to a suitably chosen list of words shortly before his death
and compare them with the corresponding reactions of the com­
municating spirit while in temporary control of the medium. Statis­
tics would do the rest. Unfortunately Mr. Carington has now
succeeded in showing that one and the same living person can, by
adopting two different mental poses or conscious mental attitudes,
produce significantly different series of subconscious reactions to the
same set of words. By thinking of himself first as a scientific recluse
during one test, and in another as a country gentleman of leisure
and means—corresponding to two real aspects of his life—Mr. Oliver
Gatty produced two widely different sets of reaction times and
deflections. It seems, therefore, that a great deal of further research
will be necessary before Mr. Carington's method can be usefully
applied to the problem of human survival. One of Mr. Carington's
tentative conclusions, however, is of considerable interest. He
claims to have demonstrated by his method that Mrs. Leonard's
control “ Feda," who maintains that she is the spirit of an Indian
girl, is in reality merely a secondary personality of the medium
244
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
formed around a nucleus of repressed mental material. This, how­
ever, only confirms what we should have anticipated on general
grounds as the result of various observations recorded from time
to time on Mrs. Leonard's trance.
§9. It is not always the case that a single “ control " remains
associated with a ‘
medium throughout his or her career. Mrs. Piper,
for instance, had possessed several controls before Phinuit came on
the scene. These earlier controls claimed to be John Sebastian
Bach, the poet Longfellow, Mrs. Siddons the actress, and other
notabilities. In the year 1897 the bluff, good-natured, lying Phinuit
himself disappeared and his place as master of ceremonies was usurped
by a fresh band of controls who called themselves Imperator, Rector,
Doctor and Prudens. The genesis of Imperator and his band is of
great psychological interest.
§ 10. In 1892 had died a prominent English spiritualist and
medium named William Stainton Moses. This Moses was a Church
of England curate who for reasons of health gave up his curacy
and was appointed English master at University College School in
or about the year 1871. Just before this period Moses had made
friends with a Dr. and Mrs. Speer, of whose house he became an
inmate. Moses soon developed as a medium and gave séances to
the Speer family in their house. At these sittings, held in total
darkness, remarkable physical phenomena were said to occur,
including spirit lights, touches of spirit hands, etc. The medium, in
whomthe Speers had implicit trust, wastotally uncontrolled. Stainton
Moses also produced automatic writing which purported to emanate
from a band of high spirits who adopted the pseudonyms Imperator,
Rector, Doctor and Prudens. These lofty beings claimed to have,
at one time, been mortal men and they revealed to Stainton Moses
the names by which they were known on earth. Stainton Moses
wrote these true names in his note-book but published only the
pseudonyms in his book called Spirit Teachings. These “ Spirit
Teachings " consist largely of theological arguments between Stainton
Moses the English clergyman and the Imperator group of spirits who
gradually succeed in convincing the curate that the narrow dogmas
of his orthodox faith are erroneous. Stainton Moses accepted the
new creed taught by the spirits—a sort of Unitarianism—and became
an ardent apostle of Spiritualism and the founder of the London
Spiritualist Alliance.
§ 11. Now one day in 1895 Professor Newbold was having a sitting
with Mrs. Piper at which an acquaintance of his, George Pelham
(pseudonym), purported to speak. The conversation turning on the
“ Spirit Teachings " of Stainton Moses, Professor Newbold asked the
spirit of Pelham if he could fetch the spirit of Stainton Moses. After
some delay a soi-disant Stainton Moses manifested through the
automatic writing of Mrs. Piper. On being interrogated, Stainton
Moses made many bad “ bloomers." For instance, he said, “ When
you see my friend Sidgwick kindly ask him if he remembers the
evening we spent together at his own house." But the real Stainton
Moses had never in his life visited Professor Sidgwick's house. This
245
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
spirit also sent his love to an English spiritualist called Wedgworth,
whereas Wedgworth was then already dead. As the real names of
the Imperator band who had been the controls of the living Stainton
Moses were contained in a note-book which was at the time in the
possession of Frederick Myers in England, here was an excellent
opportunity to test this spirit who claimed to be Stainton Moses.
No one in America knew these names and only one man in England.
The spirit was therefore asked to give the true names of his old
controls. He volunteered certain names, but not one of them bore
any resemblance to the real names contained in the note-book.
§ 12. Let us try to grasp the real importance of this failure of the
“ spirit " Moses to prove his identity. The spirit “ George Pelham "
who had been sent by Professor Newbold to find Stainton Moses was
one of the most remarkable that have ever manifested through any
medium. The real George Pelham was a young journalist who had
been killed in an accident. Shortly after his death he claimed to
communicate through Mrs. Piper. Now, this spirit which purported
to be Pelham recognized no less than thirty of his friends, calling
them by name, although excessive precautions had been taken by
Dr. Hodgson to preserve their anonymity when they visited Mrs.
Piper. Pelham not only recognized his friends, but he knew their
occupations and recalled conversations which he had held with them
in his lifetime. Moreover, he adopted towards each friend the
characteristic attitude and degree of familiarity that he had shown
during his lifetime. To take only one example, Pelham had been
very intimate with a family named Howard. After his death Mrs.
Howard and her daughter Catherine visited Mrs. Piper. (It should
be mentioned that when Dr. Hodgson introduced sitters to Mrs.
Piper she was already in the trance.) On this occasion the “ spirit "
of George Pelham wrote : “ Catherine, how are you getting on with
the violin ? It's horrible to hear you play ! " Mrs. Howard, on
on reading these sentences, replied, " Yes, George, but don't you
see that she loves her music because she has no other ? " “ No
doubt," answered Pelham, " but that is what I always used to tell
her." The real George Pelham had been very irritated by Catherine's
playing. If any spirit ever succeeded in establishing his identity
we must agree that George Pelham did. Yet this same George
Pelham accepts and vouches for the authenticity of an entirely
fictitious Stainton Moses! If these spirits of Mrs. Piper are real
disembodied personalities living in a real world it is difficult to under­
stand how such gross errors as these arise. We in this world do
not mistake our own species for sheep or cows.
S 13. Similar cases have occurred in the writer’s own experience.
At one of my sittings with the medium Mrs. Blanche Cooper, the
spirit of a small boy purported to communicate ; he gave his name
as James Miles and his age as 13 years. He said that he had recently
been drowned in the River Avon near Bath in trying to rescue a toy
balloon which had falleninto the water. He also said that his home
was at Clarence Place, Locksbrook Road, Weston, near Bath. There
were lots of brothers and sisters and his father, with whom he wished
246
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
to communicate, was a painter. All these details were given with
much dramatic effect. On making enquiries it turned out that the
source of this spirit communication was a short paragraph which had
appeared in the Daily Express of 30 December 1921—just ten days
before the séance. All the details given by the “ spirit ” of James
Miles were contained in this newspaper paragraph and they did not
go beyond it. At subsequent sittings I askedthe " spirit '' of the dead
lad to tell me the names of his brothers and sisters and to volunteer
details of his home circumstances, all of which were unknown to
me and not contained in any newspaper report. James Miles
utterly failed to give a single name or fact that proved to be correct.
Yet a few days before this same “ spirit '' had been able to com­
municate such complicated names as Locksbrook Road. Though he
spoke in the first person he clearly was not the spirit of the dead boy.
§ 14. But here is the disconcerting aspect of the case. A com­
municator had previously appeared for many weeks purporting to
be my brother Frank, who had been killed in France. This com­
municator had volunteered excellent proofs of his identity. He had
correctly described numerous incidents in connection with our
boyhood spent on an Essex farm. By no amount of detective work
could the medium have unearthed these obscure but vivid episodes.
Yet the “ spirit '' which claimed to be my brother Frank showed
himself to be perfectly aware of the presence of " James Miles '' and
to accept him as a real spirit. Thus on one occasion Frank said,
“ I am looking after the poor little fellow/1 Does it not seem from
this and similar cases that the spirits who volunteer fairly satisfactory
proofs of identity are no more truly the persons they claim to be
than those spirits that are obviously fictitious ? Thus “ George
Pelham '' appeared to think that the fictitious control “ Phinuit "
was a real spirit. By an elaborate psychological study of the utter­
ances of the various Piper controls and communicators, Mrs. Sidgwick
came to the conclusion that both the spirit controls and the ordinary
communicators who gave proofs of identity possess a common back­
ground of mental associations and characteristics. They do not
correspond to real fissures of the medium's subconscious mind but
only to poses assumed by it. In fact, the tendency to impersonate
is the chief characteristic of the mediumistic trance. By the mere
accident of Professor Newbold asking for the spirit of Stainton Moses
the control Phinuit, who had been associated with Mrs. Piper's
trance for years, abdicated and gave place to a new set of controls
claiming to be the Imperator, Doctor, Prudens, etc., of Stainton Moses.
§ 15. It has long been known that new “ spirit " personalities can
be made to appear in the medium's trance by mereverbal suggestion.
Thus at a physical séance, the investigator Ochorowitz suggested to
the child-control Stasia that a powerful male spirit was required to
assist her to move a certain heavy table. Ochorowitz mentioned the
name WOYTEC, this being a common name among Polish peasants.
Immediately the table spelt out “ WOYTEC is here ” and WOYTEC
appeared at all subsequent séances.
S 16. Nothing, in fact, is more easy than for the experimenter to
247
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l is m
create for himself cases that are similar to the well-known case of
" Bessie Beals." After death, Dr. Hodgson manifested as a spirit
control of Mrs. Piper. The impersonation of Hodgson was not at all
striking when we take into account his long years of association with
the medium. However, one day Dr. Stanley Hall (the famous
American psychologist) had a sitting with Mrs. Piper and asked for
the spirit of a niece (¿lied Bessie Beals, a character which he had
invented on the spur of the moment. “ Bessie " duly appeared
and accepted Dr. Hall as her unde, giving more or less appropriate
answers to Dr. Hall's questions and imaginary reminiscences. Dr.
Hall then told the control “ Hodgson " that he had never possessed
such a niece. Now “ Hodgson," who daimed to have fetched this
niece from the spirit world to talk to her uncle, had taken " Bessie
Beals " quite seriously. He tried to wriggle out by saying that he
himself had known a real Bessie Beals in his lifetime and that this
was the spirit he had brought to Stanley Hall by mistake. The
excuse is not plausible. If the spirit was the Bessie Beals Hodgson
had known, why should she claim Stanley Hall as her uncle and
assent to his imaginary reminiscences ?
§ 17. In 1921 the writer found that such a fictitious personality
could be created by silent or unspoken suggestion ; that is to say,
it could be telepathically induced. It must be noted that a rudi­
mentary case of this kind is reported of Mrs. Piper's mediumship.
One day Dr. Hodgson, when in charge of the investigation of Mrs.
Piper, had been reading Scott's Life and Letters. The next day a
Sir Walter Scott communicated through Mrs. Piper and took his
listeners for imaginary voyages among the planets. Sir Walter
Scott probably knew little about astronomy while he was alive, but
it is certain that he knew even less dead. The “ Scott " who appeared
through Mrs. Piper was a rank impostor and yet on one occasion he
was apparently aware that Newbold and Hodgson had been laughing
loudly together in private over his astronomical absurdities, for he
remarked to Hodgson, “ Who was the gentleman with whom I saw
you seemingly laughing over my journey with you ? "
§ 18. My own case of “ John Ferguson " illustrates clearly how a
fictitious personality can develop as a result of unconscious sugges­
tions which have never been verbally voiced by the sitter. At a
sitting with the automatic-speaking medium, Mrs. Blanche Cooper
on 3 November 1921, the “ spirit " control “ Nada " whispered the
name of a street, “ Westgate Road " in the town of Brentwood,
saying that a man and his daughter from this town wished to com­
municate. I had never visited Brentwood, though I had passed
through its railway station for years on my way to town. The
name Brentwood was therefore familiar, but not the street. At the
next séance the man purported to speak in the first person and
gave his name as John Feiguson and his age at death as 33 years.
He mentioned a brother Jim, said to be still alive, and proceeded to
describe a house in the town of Brentwood. This house was situated
in a tree-lined avenue whose name began with H. It was a large
house with the gates painted dark red and standing in its own
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
grounds. The family residing in it were musical and they kept
fowls. I was to inquire there for his brother Jim. At the third
séance Ferguson stated that he had been drowned in a boating
accident on 3 March 1912. His occupation was that of a motor
engineer and his brother Jim was ten years younger than himself.
He was unable to give the place of his death or burial, but mentioned
that his daughter Amy, aged 4 years, had been interred in the same
grave. A few days after this sitting I suddenly remembered that
as a boy at school in Southend I had known a Jimmy Ferguson
and chummed with him a bit, although I never met any of his family.
I knew, however, that his father was an army instructor in the School
of Gunnery at Shoeburyness. In the year 1902 both Jimmy Ferguson
and I were about 13 years old. At the end of the same year he left
the school and I never heard what became of him. I began to wonder
if the John Ferguson of the séance was the brother of the boy I had
known. It will be seen that the ages and dates tallied fairly well.
At the next sitting my conjectures were confirmed in a startling way.
“ J. F.” spoke, saying : “ My father—my father had to do with the
army/1 I asked, “ Was he a soldier ? " " J. F.” answered, in
effect, “ No ! but he used to help soldiers with maps and compass ! ”
The spirit control “ Nada ” then went on to mention " Boom—Boom
—he makes a noise like big guns—the noise would break all the
windows-----” Having served in the Siege Artillery during the war,
I knewthat the work of an R. G.A. schoolmasterwould be teaching
the use of the prismatic compass and map-reading. The description
of the noise of the guns clearly applied to Shoeburyness, where
windows used to be broken while firing practice was in progress.
§ 19. After this séance I visited Brentwood for the first time in
my life and found that not only was there a street called Warescott
Road, but near it an avenue lined with young trees called Highland
Avenue. I did not, however, inquire whether there was anyone
living in Brentwood of the name of Ferguson as I was afraid of
bringing the case to a premature end. At the next sitting both
Mr. Gregson and I heard the name “ Highlands ” given as the name
of the avenue in Brentwood. In the subsequent sittings other details
were given which seemed to be derived from my own mind. Growing
tired of the case, which did not seem to progress, I visited Brentwood
again on 12 December 1921 and inquired at the post office if anyone
of the name of Ferguson lived in Highland Avenue or elsewhere in
the town. I soon convinced myself that no one of the name of
Ferguson had lived in Brentwood for many years before 1912. I
noted, however, that there was in Highland Avenue a house which had
been recently occupied by a certain Captain Shoesmith (pseudonym)
of the Royal Naval Reserve. Now in my mind I naturally associated
the Navy with the Coast Defence and I conjectured that this Shoe-
smith might have been a friend of Ferguson. The name of the
house was “ Paglesham,” which is also the name of a little fishing
village in Essex near Southend, well known to my brother Frank
and myself. At the next sitting I spoke severely to “ John Fer­
guson," charging him with telling untruths. He then admitted
S.o. 249 R
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
that he and his brother had never lived at Brentwood but had visited
friends there in Highland Avenue. At the following sitting J. F.
volunteered a curious approximation to the name “ Shoesmith "
and said that his friend at Brentwood was a naval man. The
“ spirit " of my brother Frank also clearly indicated the name
Paglesham [in Anglo-Saxon it = Cowslip Mead] by the phrase
" where cowslips grow in cocklebeds ” ; Paglesham is a fishing village
devoted to the cockle and oyster industries.
§ 20. I wrote to this Captain Shoesmith giving him all the details
of the case, but he replied that he had never known a John Ferguson
and that my information meant nothing to him. J. F. ulti­
mately admitted that he was a Scotchman and that he was
buried in a Glasgow cemetery, having lived for several years
in the district of Pollockshields. On the eve of the next sitting
I bought a map of Glasgow and pored over it for a couple of
hours. I noted that near the Pollockshields district were two
large cemeteries, one called South Necropolis and the other Janefield
Street. At the sitting held next day, after the lights had been
turned out, I spread this map on the floor in the dark and asked
J. F. to try to remember the name of the cemetery in which he was
buried. J. F. volunteered first the names of several streets which I
afterwards verified were on the map and towards the end of the
séance at a moment when I was not thinking of the cemeteries he
suddenly said “ South Necrop-----”. I wrote to the keeper of this
cemetery, asking him to make me out a list of all the John Fergusons
who had been buried there since the year 1901 with the dates of
death, and to note especially any John and Amy Ferguson interred
in the same grave. From the list I received, it appeared that though
John Fergusons were as plentiful as blackberries in autumn, there
was no John Ferguson who had died on or about 3 March 1912, and
no Amy Ferguson on the list, or any name resembling Amy.
§ 21. A study of this case shows clearly that a purely fictitious
personality may be built up bit by bit out of fragmentary suggestions
woven by the mind of the experimenter : but similar experiments
on the same lines are much to be desired. It should be added that
it is very difficult to account normally for this case by the theory of
unconscious whispering on my part. It might, for instance, be
assumed that, as I was expecting the name “ Highlands/1the medium
caught a nasal whisper which gave her the clue, but it is not
easy to believe that when I was expecting “ Paglesham/' she heard
me whisper “ Cowslips that grow in cocklebeds."
ATTEMPTS TO PROVE SURVIVAL
§ 22. There are still psychic researchers, although they are in a
dwindling minority, who deny that mediums like Mrs. Piper or Mrs.
Osborne Leonard have ever shown supernormal knowledge during
their trances. It is, of course, easy to collect a number of weak
examples from the sittings of these two great mediums and to show
that the facts could be accounted for by chance coincidence, astute
deductions by the medium from remarks made by the sitter, and
250
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
so on. By ignoring all the strong cases, it would be fairly easy to
argue that these weaker cases do not demand any supernormal
explanation. Dr. Stanley Hall and Dr. Amy Tanner in their Studies
in Spiritism adopted this disgraceful attitude towards the work of
Mrs. Piper. But such methods are as unfair as they are unscientific.
Again, if one takes an individual case, it is possible to suggest that
though a sitter has been introduced anonymously to Mrs. Leonard
it is extremely difficult to prove that the sitter is really unknown to
her. She may, for all we know, have taken tea with one of his
acquaintances on the previous Sunday and obtained foreknowledge
of his projected visit. But this explanation or any similar one
becomes increasingly improbable when we recall that hundreds of
people have been introduced anonymously to Mrs. Leonard and
have obtained successful results over a period of twenty years.
Moreover, many of these people have been persons of critical and
well-balanced mentality. Professor C. D. Broad—to take only one
example—has sat with Mrs. Leonard and expressed his conviction
that the medium has shown at least the power of reading his mind
in a remarkable way. In the case of Mrs. Piper, Professor William
James came to the conclusion that in her trance she knew things
that she could not have found out in any normal way. The writer
had only a few sittings with Mrs. Leonard, but he saw enough to
convince him that this medium possesses powers at least telepathic,
i.e., a faculty for digging up names and incidents from the sitter's
memory in some supernormal way. Moreover, with Mrs. Leonard,
as with Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Blanche Cooper, the knowledge shown
in the trance nearly always referred to incidents that, from their
private nature, it seemed wildly improbable that she should have
gleaned in any casual conversations with acquaintances or from
directories or by employing a detective to make inquiries.
§ 23. Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall were exceptionally
careful and painstaking observers who had an extended series of
sittings with Mrs. Leonard in which they attempted to get messages
from “ A. V. B.," a deceased lady who had been a friend of both
the sitters. Dr. Mitchell, the editor of the British Journal of Medical
Psychology, was particularly impressed by the accuracy with which
Lady Troubridge noted almost every word that was spoken by
" Feda," Mrs. Leonard's control. When the deceased “ A. V. B."
described accurately a country house familiar to the two sitters, they
were so sceptical that they employed private detectives in an attempt
to discover whether any person had been instituting secret inquiries
in the district. The detectives were satisfied that no such inquiries
had been made. I do not think that any unprejudiced person who
studies the long series of reports of Lady Troubridge and Miss
Radclyffe-Hall can reasonably doubt that " A. V. B." did succeed
in describing a large number of incidents in which she had taken
part during her lifetime. Many names also were given correctly,
including the pet name " Ladye " by which " A. V. B." was known
to the sitters.
§ 24. A study of the “ A. V. B." series of communications and of.
251
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
similar series reveals one remarkable fact. The “ spirit ” recalls
most easily names and incidents which are in the memories of the
persons present at the sitting, although these sitters may not be
thinking of the name or incident at the moment when it is given.
When, however, the “ spirit ” is asked to detail incidents in his life
which are unknown to the persons present he either fails entirely
orvolunteers descriptionswhich prove to be very vague and uncertain.
Thus " A. V. B.” had no difficulty in giving fairly accurate attempts
at names and incidents which were known to Lady Troubridge and
Miss Radclyffe-Hall, but when she was asked to describe a house at
Burnham Beeches where she had stayed as a little girl and about which
the two sitters knew nothing, she volunteered an extremely vague
and shadowy description. Certain of the items were appropriate in
a vague way, but little that was definite was found to be true when
inquiries were made.
§ 25. In my study of Mrs. Cooper I found that, when a name was
known to me, I could never get it at the moment when it was in my
conscious mind, but later on when I was thinking of something else
the “ spirit ” would volunteer it correctly. This, of course, strongly
suggests that when an idea is in consciousness it is inaccessible to
the medium. That is to say, that what we call telepathy is a com­
munication not between two conscious minds but between the
subconscious regions of those minds. It may even be, as Mr.
Whately Carington suggests, that we all share a common subconscious
mind and that to imagine that ideas are transferred from one mind
to another like eggs from one basket to another is to form a totally
false conception of the telepathic process. Our bodies occupy space,
but there is no reason to suppose that our minds are spatial entities
in any sense: spatial analogies may not hold when we deal with
thought-transference.
§ 26. Although it would be probably true to say that 90 per cent,
of the incidents correctly related by " spirits ” in proof of their
identity are matters known to the persons present, there is still a
residuum that is not easily accounted for by the theory of simple
thought-transference from the sitter. Such cases are best illustrated
by the “ proxy ” sittings of the Rev. Drayton Thomas with the
medium Mrs. Leonard. Mr. Thomas, although a convinced spiritual­
ist, is known to be a very accurate and conscientious recorder; in
recognition of his long and painstaking study of Mrs. Leonard, he
was elected to the Council of the S.P.R. What happens at these
“ proxy ” sittings I shall attempt briefly to describe. A lady whom
Mr. Thomas has never met writes to him saying that she has lost her
son and begs him to get into touch with the spirit of the deceased
lad through Mrs. Leonard. Mr. Thomas, who has a sitting with
Mrs. Leonard about once a fortnight, takes the letter with him to
one of these sittings. The letter is not shown to Mrs. Leonard. It
might well be supposed that the chances of success in such an enter­
prise are so small as to render it hopeless. Mr. Thomas knows
nothing of the lad or his family; there is no link whatever except
the letter in his pocket. Yet, strange to say, the spirit control
252
S p ir it u a l ism S p ir it u a l ism
" Feda ” will proceed to describe the deceased boy and mention
little incidents which on inquiry turn out to be correct. It is true
that in many cases the evidence for identity is feeble and that chance
coincidence might be invoked to account for much of it. Neverthe­
less, there are sometimes approximations to names and descriptions
of incidents that it would be very unreasonable to ascribe to chance.
If we wish to evade the spirit hypothesis, it is necessary for us to
suppose that in some mysterious way the possession of a letter from
the relatives of the deceased enables the subconscious mind of Mrs.
Leonard to link up with the memory of one of these relatives.
Possibly the mind of Mr. Thomas might serve as an intermediary.
No one can doubt that the “ will-to-believe '' as well as chance
coincidence plays a considerable part in the interpretation of the
records obtained at the sittings. Spiritualists often display extra­
ordinary ingenuity in producing incidents and reminiscences to tally
with the somewhat vague statements made by “ Feda.,# It might
be possible, however, to devise a control of Mr. Thomas's " proxy "
sittings as follows. Let us suppose that a communication is received
by “ proxy " purporting to come from the deceased son of Mrs. A.
The record of the sitting should be posted to another lady, Mrs. B,
who has also recently lost a son. If Mrs. A is a spiritualist, care
should be taken that Mrs. B is also a spiritualist. Mrs. B should be
induced to believe that there is reason to suppose that the com­
munication is fromher son and should be asked to annotate the record.
A copy of the same record could be sent to other spiritualists who
have lost sons—Mrs. C, D, E, etc. By means of a scoring system
we could discover whether the information can be made to fit the
circumstances of Mrs. B, C, D, etc., as readily as it applies to the
case of Mrs. A. Even if Mr. Thomas's “ proxy " sittings had to be
discarded after such a test as the above, there still remains the long
series of “ proxy " sittings taken by Miss Nea Walker on behalf of
a Mrs. White who had lost her young husband. In this series con­
siderable precautions were taken by Miss Walker both in reporting
and in the prevention of leakage/ I must say that a careful and
unprejudiced study of this case recorded in The Bridge has convinced
me that supernormal knowledge (possibly obtained by telepathy
from Mrs. White) was really shown at these " proxy " sittings.
§ 27. It will be asked: Why should we prefer to assume that
Mrs. Leonard the medium was able to make contact with the sub­
conscious mind of the distant Mrs. White rather than to suppose
that the spirit of Mr. White himself communicated the information
to Mrs. Leonard ? In order to answer this question we must briefly
review some work which has been done in France and England
during the past twelve years. We must first bear in mind that in
England and America the spiritualist tradition is far stronger than
it is in the Latin countries such as France. In England, so soon
as a young person contracts the habit of falling into trances, he or
she is at once drawn into the spiritualist community and trained or
" developed " in an atmosphere of spiritistic culture. After a very
short time, the young recruit will have all his energies directed
«53
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
towards getting messages from the dead. He will, in his trances,
soon learn to speak of “ the spirit spheres/' “ the Summerland,"
“ spirit guides " and “ controls/' If any bit of information is given
which appears to involve a supernormal explanation it will purport
to come from the spirit of a dead person. In France there are
psychic sensitives who have escaped this training in the spiritualist
tradition. Some of these, such as Mile Laplace, Mme Morel, Mile de
Berly and M. Pascal Forthuny, have almost as great a reputation
in their own country as our English Mrs. Leonard. Now, a sensitive
such as Mme Morel goes into the hypnotic trance just as Mrs. Leonard
does, but—in contradistinction to what happens in Mrs. Leonard's
trances—no “ control " appears. Nor does Mme Morel claim to get
into touch with spirits of the dead. If a handkerchief belonging to
a distant living person is put into her hands she will often be able
to describe correctly incidents that have happened in the life of this
person, his or her personal characteristics, and even the names of
his or her relatives. And the details given will often prove to be
true even when they are unknown to the persons present at the
sitting. It will immediately be asked “ What is the role played by
the handkerchief ? " This is one of the most baffling problems of
psychical research. In some mysterious way it serves to link up
the mind of the sensitive with that of the distant owner of the object,
but by what mechanisms we have no clear conception. The point
I wish to emphasize is that psychics like Mme Morel and M. Pascal
Forthuny will describe a distant living person in much the same way
as Mrs. Leonard describes a dead person when Mr. Thomas takes a
“ proxy " sitting. Further, if some small relic or other object is
put into the hands of Mme Morel, she will usually be able to state
correctly whether the owner is living or dead. In either case she will
describe him and trace events in his life more or less accurately.
But if the owner is dead, Mme Morel will not claim to get into touch
with his spirit; she will have nothing to say about his life and
employments in the spirit world. In giving her narrative of the
dead person's life she will simply feel that the'thread is broken at a
certain point, and that the rest is blank. After many years of study
of psychic sensitives like Mme Morel, Dr. Osty has come to the
conclusion that in all cases the source of the sensitive’s information
is the mind of a living person.
§ 28. There is, for instance, a Polish engineer named Stefan
Ossowiecki who apparently possesses a remarkable faculty for
reproducing sketches and words which have been enclosed in several
light-proof envelopes. Dr. E. J. Dingwall, who is perhaps the world's
greatest sceptic of the supernormal, made in 1923 a remarkable
experiment with Ossowiecki. Before leaving England for the
Varsovie conference, Dingwall drew on a sheet of paper a small
bottle surrounded by a line. On the same side of the paper he
wrote the date, Aug. 22, 1923. On the other side he wrote a short
sentence in French extolling the wines of the Meuse. The folded
paper was enclosed in an envelope which was again enclosed in a
second light-proof envelope which in turn was put into an outer
254
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
envelope which was sealed. By means of secret pin-holes in align­
ment, Dingwall ensured that any tampering with the envelopes
would be immediately detected when he opened them. The envelope
was locked inside Dingwall's suitcase and on his arrival at Varsovie
handed to Baron Schrenck, who kept it in safe custody. Ossowiecki
guessed at the contents of the envelope in the presence of six distin­
guished experimenters; Dingwall remained absent so as not to
influence the result by direct thought-transference. Ossowiecki
made a very accurate reproduction of the bottle and read the date
partially. He also said there was some writing on the back which,
being tired, he was unable to read. The envelope was afterwards
opened by Dingwall at a meeting of the Congress and found to be
absolutely intact.
§ 29. Other investigators such as Richet, Geley and Besterman
have carried out similar carefully planned experiments with brilliant
success. The possibility of deciphering the message by X-rays has,
however, not been investigated. In Dingwall’s experiment this
would obviously involve the complicity of Baron Schrenck, whose
honesty has never been called in question. It has, however, been
observed that Ossowiecki in many cases not only describes accurately
the contents of the envelope but often describes correctly the personal
appearance, etc., of the absent person who has prepared it. He
often gives a fairly accurate description of the room in which the
envelope was prepared and sometimes notes correctly that the
experimenter had first drawn another sketch and then discarded it.
These observations suggest to Osty that the envelope merely serves
as a link to put Ossowiecki into subconscious communication with
the distant investigator. That is to say, the sensitive does not
really " see ” through the light-proof envelope ; he only reads the
memory of the person who invented the test. Knowledge shown by
a medium which is not acquired through the normal channels of
sense and which is not contained in the memory of any living person
is called Clairvoyant knowledge.
§ 30. If we understand Osty aright, he denies that mediums
possess any direct supernormal knowledge of events ; they only have
knowledge of mental reconstructions of these events. But since
Osty admits that this mental reconstruction may exist in future
time as well as in past or present time, his conception of telepathy
from living minds is a vastly extended conception. To illustrate
this extended conception of telepathy, I shall very briefly describe a
remarkable experiment carried out by Osty at Paris with the psychic
Pascal Forthuny. I should first mention that Pascal Forthuny
gives demonstrations of his alleged supernormal powers before large
audiences after much the same fashion as the English platform
clairvoyantes. Unlike the latter, however, he does not invoke the
spirits of the dead, but often gives descriptions of the living relatives
and friends of the people in the audience. It is, of course, extremely
difficult to assess the real value of such performances as these. The
clairvoyant, for example, may recognize in the gathering certain
persons about whom he may know a good deal more than the rest
255
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
of the audience suspect. Unfortunately, the work of P. Forthuny
is not always above suspicion. In 1929 he gave me a private sitting
at which he pretended to get the name SOAR by automatic writing.
I learned later that just before the séance he had lunched with Mrs.
Sidgwick and Dr. Woolley. By an oversight they had told him that
the sitter for the afternoon was to be Mr. SOAL. There were other
suspicious incidents in this sitting. It is certain that Forthuny uses
his wits, but nevertheless it is highly probable that he does possess
certain supernormal powers. The experiment which I shall describe,
however, is of such a unique nature that—granting M m e (M -----) has
told the truth—it is difficult to suspect Forthuny of having cheated.
At 2.30 p.m. on 21 April 1926, Dr. Osty conducted M. Humblot (a
senator) and Mme Camille Flammarion to the séance room of the
Institut Métapsychique. The room contained 150 seats which were
empty. Osty asked Humblot to choose a seat at random, and a
small piece of paper was gummed on the underside of the seat of the
selected chair in order to identify it. Pascal Forthuny was then
brought into the room and shown the chair, in which he then seated
himself. He forthwith dictated rapidly a long description of the
unknown person who was destined to occupy that chair at the
public meeting which was to be held later in the afternoon. This
description was taken down in shorthand by a stenographer and
typed in duplicate immediately afterwards. Dr. Osty and P.
Forthuny left the empty séance room at 3.30 p.m. and remained in
Osty's drawing-roomwith Mme Flammarion till four o'clock, Humblot
having left the house. At 3.30 about a hundred persons were waiting
to be admitted and surged into the room as soon as the doors were
opened. At four o'clock Osty and P. Forthuny entered the séance
roomin which a large audience had taken their seats. Osty explained
the nature of the experiment to the assembly and Forthuny then
read aloud from one of the typed copies his descriptions of the
occupant of the chair, Osty following his words from the other copy.
The occupant of the chair, a certain Mme M-----, whose identity is
not disclosed, afterwards annotated Forthuny's description point by
point. I will cite a few of the most striking details that proved to
be correct. Forthuny's statement is given in italics, the corre­
sponding annotation of Mme M-----in ordinary type in brackets.
Across the sea, far out on the sea, beyond the seas, an odour of VaniUa.
. . . Very surprised to see some one returnfrom Brazil or the Argentine
or from South America in any case. You are connected with this person.
[Eight days before the séance Mme M----- had received an
unexpected visit from a good friend of the family who arrived from
Brazil and whom she had not seen for four years.]
D o not wear that belt ; it has already wounded you.
[ Mme M-----was wearing at the séance and had worn for some
time an elastic belt which had abraded the skin.]
Look after your liver.
[Mme M-----was being treated for liver trouble.]
Pay attention to the return of the ear, nose and throat trouble. I t is
the sole source o f your neuralgia.
256
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
[Some days before the sitting Mme M-—- had visited a throat,
nose and ear specialist who had found a deviation in the nose partition
and other throat trouble and told her that when this was remedied
the neuralgia would disappear.]
Your plans for a distant journey in the summer are already upset
and will be stiU more so. Do not think any more of the E a st; for the
time being that idea is finished.
[Mme M-----had recently made plans for a fortnight’s motor tour
in the approaching summer holidays, but this was already abandoned.
Another tour (in the Vosges) had been also abandoned.] The real
weakness of this case is that we have to rely entirely on the good
faith of Mme M-----, a person of whom we know very little. Osty,
so far as I can ascertain, does not present us with much corroborative
evidence in support of her statements. But if we accept the good
faith of the lady, the case contains an element of prevision which
is astounding. On being interrogated, Mme M-----told Osty that
at the exact time when Forthuny was dictating his impressions in
the empty room she felt unaccountably ill and was undecided whether
or not to attend the meeting. She said also that she was jostled
in the rush to gain seats and sat down on that particular chair by
the merest accident.
§ 31. It has been shown by psychologists that what we call the
present moment is not a mere line dividing the past from the future,
but that it extends over a definite small duration which overlaps
both the past and the future. We might suppose with Mr. Saltmarsh
a|id others that there are states of human consciousness in which
this small overlap is magnified so that it covers a considerable interval
of future time. Thus the empty chair might serve as a “ rapport ”
object enabling M. Forthuny to grasp a sufficient portion of the
future to reach the instant when the chair was occupied by the lady.
He would thus make contact with the lady’s subconscious mind at
the instant when she sat in the chair and so enter into telepathic
communication with her. The feeling of illness experienced might
arise from the subconscious disturbance produced by the rapport.
We are, of course, assuming that the case was genuine. In cases
such as this where spirit intervention is not in question, the super­
normal knowledge shown is quite as remarkable as that obtained at
any " proxy ” sitting with Mrs. Leonard or Mrs. Piper. In fact, the
work of these French sensitives renders it probable that in the
" proxy " sittings the medium does get her information from the
minds of the distant surviving relatives. The spirit hypothesis
becomes unnecessary and the principle of economy dictates that we
should avoid redundant hypotheses.
§ 32. In the year 1925 the writer published a case that is peculiarly
fatal to the spirit hypothesis* Lack of space compels me to be very
brief, but the reader can look up the case of Gordon Davis in Proceed­
ings o f the Society for Psychical Research (Vol. 35, December 1925).
I must explain first that Mrs. Blanche Cooper was an “ automatic
voice " medium. Just as certain persons can write, e.g., long poems
and remain only vaguely aware of the movements of their hand, so
257
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
there are people who can speak without having much consciousness
of the vibrations of the larynx, movements of the tongue, etc. Such
mediums usually sit in darkness and claim to be “ direct voice ”
mediums. Moreover, their voices vary in pitch according to the
deceased characters which they are impersonating. Thus the voice
of James Miles was a boyish treble while that of Ferguson was of a
more manly character. But all the voices bore a fundamental
resemblance to Mrs. Cooper's normal voice ; they were, in fact, her
normal voice disguised.
§ 33. At school I had known slightly a boy called Gordon Davis
who was particularly interested in Geography and who made a hobby
of collecting savage weapons. After our schooldays were finished
I saw nothing of Davis until the year 1916, when I met him
unexpectedly on the train. He and I were then both cadets and
our conversation turned on the ceremony of mounting guard. We
parted and I heard nothing more of him till after the War, when
one day in 1920 I heard a rumour that he had been killed. This
rumour I afterwards verified was widespread. At a sitting with
Mrs. Cooper on 4 January 1922 a voice spoke giving the name of
Gordon Davis. I thought I could identify this voice ; at any rate,
it seemed to resemble in accent the voice of Davis as he had spoken
in the train. The accent, in fact, was rather affected. Davis said
he had been killed and wished to give a message to his wife and
child. He mentioned “ harpoons ” (an allusion to his savage
weapons), referred to his interest in Geography, and gave the name
of the house in which he had lived as a boy at Rochford. There
were also good approximations to the name Rochford itself and to
the names of two schoolfellows, Over (for Overall) and Playle. Most
of these facts were, however, well known to me. He also stated
correctly that our last meeting had been on the train and that the
subject of our conversation had been “ guards ” [“ not railway
guards " he emphasized].
§ 34. At the next sitting on 9 January 1922 there was given
through the " spirit ” control Nada a detailed description of the
exterior environment and interior furnishings of a house in which
the widow and her child were said to be living. The house was said
to be situated in a street whose name contained two " E's.” All
these details concerning the house were unknown to me at the time
and I did not even know whether Davis was married. I thought
that the description was merely the idle invention of the medium.
In April 1925 I made the dramatic discovery that Gordon Davis was
still alive and living with his family at a house in Southend situated
in a street called the “ Eastern Esplanade." Every single detail in
the description of the house proved to be correct. I estimated that
the chance of all the details applying to any other house chosen in
England at random was one in many tens of millions. A still more
startling shock was awaiting me. It turned out that in January
1922 Davis and his family were not yet living in this house but
occupied a London flat. In fact, it transpired from a diary kept by
Davis that between the dates of the two sittings (4 January and
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l is m
9 January) he had paid his first visit to the house with a view to
renting it. At that time he had not even thought about the probable
disposition of his pictures, brass candlesticks, vases, mirrors, etc.,
whose positions had been so carefully described by the control Nada.
In particular, Nada had mentioned “ a bird standing on the piano."
There was such a bird on the piano at the house in Eastern Esplanade,
but at the time of the séance this bird was packed away in a box in
the London flat. Davis did not move into the house until 13 Decem­
ber 1922—about a year after the sittings. Fortunately, I was able
to discover exactly what the real Gordon Davis was doing at the
hour when his " spirit " was speaking in the first person through
Mrs. Cooper. From the diary it appears that Davis, who is an
estate agent, was busy interviewing a client, Mrs. Short, in a street
which is an extension of the Eastern Esplanade. Davis, on reading
the words his spirit was supposed to have spoken, laughed heartily
as he recognized his own mannerisms and turns of phrase.
§ 35. In this remarkable case it would seem that the subconscious
mind of Mrs. Cooper contacted that of Davis not in the present but
in the future. Probably my own belief that Davis was dead supplied
Mrs. Cooper with the suggestion that he should be dramatized as a
deceased person wishing to send a message to his wife and child.
The episode throws a vivid light upon the genesis of spirit com­
munications. It shows further that even the reproduction by the
medium of little characteristic mannerisms of speech is no guarantee
that we have to deal with a discamate spirit. Osty has come to
a similar conclusion on this point from his studies of the French
sensitives.
OTHER ATTEMPTS TO PROVE SURVIVAL
By Sealed Envelopes
§ 36. Before his death the famous spiritualist Frederick Myers,
one of the founders of the Society for Psychical Research, prepared
a sealed envelope in which he had enclosed some lines of writing
unknown to anyone but himself. This envelope was kept in safe
custody until after Myers's death. Myers, before he died, promised
that if it were possible he would reveal the contents of the envelope
through different mediums. After his death the experiment was
tried, and when there appeared to be a certain concordance among
the various messages received the envelope was opened at a meet­
ing of the Society for Psychical Research. The contents were
found to be quite different from the messages received from the
alleged spirit of Myers.
§ 37. An even more interesting case is that of Hannah Wilde.
Miss Hannah Wilde died in 1886. About a year before her death,
on the advice of a married sister Mrs. Bessie Blodgett, she wrote
a letter and sealed it in an envelope, the contents being known
only to Miss Wilde herself. The envelope was kept in a tin box
to which no one had access except Mrs. Blodgett. Miss Wilde,
who was a spiritualist, promised to make a post-mortem revelation
259
S p ir it u a l is m S p ir it u a l ism
of the contents of the envelope if some suitable medium could be
found. After her sister's death Mrs. Blodgett retrieved the envelope
from the box with a pair of scissors so as not to impregnate it with
“ her own magnetism " and posted it to Professor William James,
asking him to try to obtain a message through Mrs. Piper. Pro­
fessor James retained the envelope but sent to Mrs. Piper a glove
and hat-band that had formerly been worn by Miss Wilde, giving
injunctions that the medium was to try to obtain the contents of
the sealed envelope. Several séances were devoted to the attempt
but all that was obtained of any interest was the name " Hannah
Wilde," which was (presumably) unknown to Mrs. Piper. In May
1888 Mrs. Blodgett paid a personal visit to Mrs. Piper, her anony­
mity being strictly preserved by Dr. Hodgson, then in charge of
the Piper investigation. It was an extraordinary séance. The soi-
disant Hannah Wilde, speaking through the intermediary of old
" Phinuit," the French doctor whose acquaintance we have already
made, began as follows : " Bessie, Bessie Blodgett, my sister, how
happy I am to see you ! " Mrs. Blodgett handed the medium a
gold chain wrapped in silk, asking the " spirit " of Hannah to
indicate to whom it belonged. She replied : “ It is our mother's
chain—Alice Wilde, our mother." This was correct. The " spirit "
of Hannah also asked after a friend, Sarah Hodgson, giving the
full name. [This Hodgson was no connection of Dr. Hodgson the
investigator.] Mrs. Blodgett said she had been thinking of this
lady only the day before. Presently Mrs. Blodgett asked her sister
to say something about the letter and she made a very extraordi­
nary reply. Hannah Wilde answered, “ I said if I come back it
will be as if the church bells were rung." According to Mrs. Blodgett
Hannah had used almost this identical phrase as she was putting
the sealed letter into the tin box. Nevertheless, the “ spirit " was
totally unable to reveal the contents of the envelope. The general
impression left on Mrs. Blodgett's mind was that the “ spirit "
could answer questions readily enough if she, Mrs. Blodgett, knew
the answer to them, but that it hesitated and became vague when
questioned on matters unknown to the sitter. This judicious ob­
servation is in entire accord with the telepathic theory which I
have been trying to expound in the present thesis.
§ 38. This case rests entirely on the good faith of Mrs. Blodgett ;
but Mr. Dingwall, who is the leader of a school of psychic research
that challenges the accuracy of every record published, would prob­
ably express grave doubts about the trustworthiness of the lady's
reminiscences. Nevertheless, while admitting the entire propriety
of Dingwall's attitude which has been abundantly justified, I may
reasonably doubt whether it is seriously possible to maintain that
all the friends of George Pelham as well as Mrs. Blodgett, Professor
James, Professor Newbold, Dr. Hodgson and a score of other in­
telligent people were either deliberate hars or the victims of paranoia,
or inexcusably careless or grossly imposed upon by the medium.
The strength of the Piper case rests not upon any single individual
report but upon a large number of favourable reports presented
Spiritualism Spiritualism
by persons of intelligence and probity. Upon Mrs. Leonard and
Mrs. Piper it is my considered opinion that the waves of adverse
criticism break in vain. It is of course desirable that other dis­
tinguished men should leave behind them sealed envelopes ; I
understand that Sir Oliver Lodge has already deposited such an
envelope with the Society for Psychical Research. It will be in­
teresting to see whether he fares any better than did Frederick
Myers and Hannah Wilde.
The M ethod o f Cross-Correspondences
§ 39. It would be quite impossible for me even to attempt to dis­
cuss the vast literature which the Society for Psychical Research
has accumulated on the subject of Cross-Correspondences. The
underlying conception of the method may, however, be briefly indi­
cated. Let us suppose that during his lifetime a mathematician
has devoted much time to the calculation of some very abstruse
mathematical constant. To take a purely imaginary instance, let
us suppose that the value of the constant to ten significant figures
is 2861735864 and that the name of the mathematician is Melville-
Jones. Now, suppose that after Melville-Jones is dead, two mediums,
X and Y, both entirely ignorant of mathematics, the first living
in Boston, U.S.A., and the second in Kent, England, receive on
the same day the following messages : X—28617 Melville compare
Y Kent. Y—Jones 35864 compare X Boston. Taken separately,
these messages are quite unintelligible, but when submitted to a
mathematician he notes immediately that they combine to form
the name of the famous mathematician Melvüle-Jones who died
only a few weeks ago. He submits the two messages to another
mathematician who is more familiar with the published work of
Melville-Jones, and it is discovered that the two sets of figures
form the first ten significant figures of the famous constant to whose
calculation Melville-Jones devoted five years of his life. What are
we to conclude other than that the two fragments are the work of
one and the same mind? But it by no means follows that this
mind is the surviving mind of Melville-Jones. Certainly the message
is characteristic of Melville-Jones, but it might be the work of some
living mind who was familiar with the dead mathematician and
his work. This living mind, interested perhaps in psychical research,
may all unconsciously have made telepathic contact with the minds
of the two mediums and communicated a fragment of the message
to each. The whole affair might even be a hoax by a friend of
Melville-Jones.
S40. It must not be supposed, however, that the cross-corre­
spondences studied by a certain section of the S.P.R. bear any
dose resemblance to the imaginary clear-cut case which I have
described above. They consist instead of obscure literary jig-saw
puzzles of such a vague character that we may well be excused for
expressing our opinion that the time spent on them has been wasted.
The fragments of verse which are pieced together from the auto­
matic scribblings of these S.P.R. automatists are not even written
Spiritualism Spiritualism
on the same day : the complementary fragments are often produced
at intervals of months apart. Moreover, no really serious attempt
has been made to estimate the parts played by coincidence and by
common tastes in reading among the automatists. Given a suffi­
ciently large amount of material written by two or three people
whose main literary interests centre around Ruskin and the major
Victorian poets, I maintain that it does not require very great
ingenuity to manufacture the kind of cross-correspondence described
by Mr. Piddington in his too voluminous papers. In fact, the men­
tality which searches for these vague correspondences is similar to
the mentality which seeks to trace the course of modem European
politics in Biblical prophecies. But as we have seen, even if the
correspondences were genuine and not merely spurious examples,
they could not prove that the mind responsible for piecing them
together was not the mind of a living person.
Spirit-Identification by means o f Thumb-prints
§ 41. About the year 1923 Mrs. Crandon (“ Margery”), the wife
of a Boston (U.S.A.) surgeon of some standing and social position,
developed numerous phases of physical mediumship which, if genuine,
would class her as the world's greatest physical medium. The
phenomena attributed to “ Margery ” include the production of
masses of “ teleplasm ” which can be photographed by flashlight
and also observed visually in red light for a few seconds at a time,
the generation of an " independent ” voice said to be that of Walter
Stinson (Margery's deceased brother), the levitation of objects placed
in a basket on a small table, and the production of the prints in
dental wax of Walter's thumbs. Around this alleged mediumship
twelve years of controversy has raged with bitter recriminations
on the sides of both the critics and the supporters of “ Margery's ”
claims. However, bit by bit, the mediumship has been discredited.
Dr. McDougall and other experts demonstrated from the photo­
graphs that the alleged “ teleplasm ” bore a very suspicious re­
semblance to animal lung tissue. In order to prove that the voice
which whistled and sang and joked was produced independently
of the larynx of the medium, Dr. Richardson (one of her supporters)
devised a U-tube arrangement with luminous floats and provided
with a mouthpiece which the medium had to hold in her mouth
in order to maintain the liquid at a certain level. It was shown,
however, by the late Dr. Prince and others that by various tricks
involving the use of chewing-gum, etc., it was quite possible for
a person to maintain the requisite air-pressure and speak and whistle
at the same time. Practice was required, but the medium had plenty
of time for it. In the year 1929 " Margery ” came to London
and gave, in the S.P.R. séance room, a few sittings at which Dr.
V. J. Woolley, the research officer, was present. The medium was
controlled by the method used in the Boston sittings. Her wrists
were fastened to the arms of her chair by adhesive tape and her
ankles to the front legs of the chair. There was also a cord pass­
ing under her arms and fastened to the back of the chair. Under
262
Spiritualism Spiritualism
these conditions objects were lifted from a basket on a small table
table placed in front of the medium. Dr. Woolley demonstrated,
with the help of Mrs. Brackenbury, who played the rôle of " Mar­
gery," that the control was quite ineffective. By lifting her knees
the medium could easily tilt the table towards her and since her
hands were free—the wrists only being tied to the arms of the chair
— she was able to reach and handle objects placed in the basket.
Incredible as it may seem, the Margery supporters (including her
husband) claimed that a thumb-print said to be produced by the
ghost of Walter Stinson in soft dental wax was identical with a
thumb-print found on an old razor which had belonged to Walter
Stinson when he was alive. In order to produce these thumb­
prints two dishes are placed on the small table, the one contain­
ing very hot water and the other cold water. The medium is secured
to her chair as described above. In the hot water is a cloth with
its ends hanging over the sides of the dish. The lights are extin­
guished and, at a signal from the control “ Walter," a sitter places
in the hot water a small cake of dental wax which he has previ­
ously marked for purposes of identification. When the wax has
softened, the ghost of Walter lifts the wax out by means of the
cloth, presses his ghostly thumb on the wax, and drops the cake
into the dish of cold .water. When it has hardened, the lights are
turned up and the sitter finds on his marked piece of wax a human
thumb-print. Obviously such prints could have been produced
normally by means of a die concealed in “ Margery's " body. In
the London sittings “ Margery " submitted to a rigorous medical
examination after the séance but not before. Possibly she could
succeed in passing the die to her husband after it had served its
purpose.
§ 42. In 1932 came the dramatic collapse of the " Margery "
mediumship. It was shown beyond reasonable doubt by Mrs. E. E.
Dudley that the thumb-prints claimed to be the left and right
thumb-prints of Walter’s ghost were actually the thumb-prints of
a living man (a Mr. X) who had attended some of the earlier séances
and who, moreover, had first showed “ Margery " how to make
thumb-prints in wax. Finger-print experts demonstrated beyond
all doubt that Walter’s thumb-prints were those of the living Mr. X.
Much ink has been spilt by the " Margery ’’ faction in trying to
explain away this damning evidence, but without success. A mortal
blow has been dealt to the Margery mediumship.
§ 43. In 1931 George Valiantine, the “ direct voice " medium of
shady reputation, began to imitate “ Margery " by producing
finger-prints in wax and on smoked paper purporting to be those
of the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Lord Dewar, the late Sir Henry
Seagrave, and others. With the aid of Mr. Jacquin, a finger-print
expert, the late Mr. H. Dennis Bradley showed that these prints
were fraudulently produced by Valiantine’s own fingers and in some
cases by his big toe or elbow-joint. At one sitting the wax was
stained with methylene green unknown to the medium, and after
the sitting stains were found on his elbow. Needless to say, those
263
Spiritualism Spiritualism
" voices ” of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Lord Dewar, and Valian-
tine's spirit controls, “ Dr, Barnett” and " Bert Everett,” which
all vouched for these fraudulent finger-prints must be considered
to be themselves equally fraudulent. Thus the mediumship of
George Valiantine, defended by the late Mr. H. Dennis Bradley
with more valour than discretion or judgment, was finally stripped
of its meretricious glamour, and relegated to the same category as
that of Munnings and other fraudulent producers of the “ direct
voice,”
THE SPIRIT HYPOTHESIS VERSUS ALTERNATIVE THEORIES
§ 44. In the preceding sections I have endeavoured to show that
Osty's extended conception of telepathy from the living provides
a more consistent interpretation of the mental phenomena of medium-
ship than the spirit theory, or at any rate the cruder forms of this
theory. We have seen how fictitious personalities can be created
by direct or indirect suggestion, and we have noted how such obvi­
ously fictitious communicators succeed in reading the minds of the
sitters as readily as do the other communicators who have volun­
teered far better evidence of identity. We have observed how the
French sensitives read the minds of the sitters and even those of
distant persons without invoking assistance from the spirits of the
dead. We have noted that the “ spirits ” can recall trivial incidents,
but when questioned fail to remember the really important events
of their lives. Another objection which we may raise centres on
the inability of the spirits to give any credible account of their life
beyond the grave. The tales told by these revenants remind one
of nothing so much as the stories told by incompetent story-tellers
who lack the imagination necessary to invest their creations with
the stamp of reality. The poverty of imagination revealed by these
descriptions of the spirit spheres is amazing. One cannot help
thinking how much better Mr. H. G. Wells would do the job if he
elected to become a medium.
§ 45. Until " Raymond,” the son of Sir Oliver Lodge, purported
to communicate through Mrs. Leonard, the spirits seldom conde­
scended to give detailed accounts of their domestic life in the other
world, but contented themselves with vague references to " spiritual
progress ” and " moral advancement.” But the ghost of Raymond
Lodge told how the spirits live in houses made of bricks and sur­
rounded by trees and flowers. They have bodies which appear to
them as substantial as ours do to us. They see the sun as we do,
and the earth on which they live is so real that when Raymond
kneels down his clothes are muddied. Newcomers still unpurged
of their gross desires demand “ whiskies ” and cigars which are
provided by the considerate chemists of the spirit world. Some­
how these cigars are not very satisfying and there is no great demand
for them. The clothes of the spirits are made apparently out of
the "smells” and emanations which arise from the terrestrial
wardrobes. Raymond published, scores of mediums and automatic
writers set out to go one better. The other world was envisaged
264
Spiritualism Spiritualism
as a kind of heavenly Highgate or spook Surbiton in which upper-
middle class spirits assembled for afternoon tea and uplifting con­
versation. Raymond Lodge was sure to be present at these gather­
ings. But there was a darker side to the picture. Far below this
celestial suburbia of the intelligentsia were the grey spheres in
which the grosser spirits groped in darkness. Those inhabiting the
pleasant haunts above sometimes plunged into these hells to rescue
some repentant soul and lead it up to the light. Yet there have
been learned exponents of Spiritualism like the late Professor Hyslop
who actually accepted these descriptions of a mundane after life.
According to Hyslop's theory, the soul after death retains its power
of creating mental images and these images will be based upon the
memories of objects that it has known on earth. Divorced from
the life of the senses, the after-death existence will partake of the
nature of a vivid dream in which the dreamer will mentally recon­
struct images of the terrestrial surroundings of his former body
and of the bodies of his friends. He will find himself the inhabitant
of a fantastic mental world irrational and full of bizarre illusions.
It would, however, appear to be even more probable that the after­
death descriptions emanate not from any surviving mind but from
the imagination of the medium.
§ 46. There are other very serious criticisms to be made of the
spirit hypothesis. Mediumistic phenomena have throughout history
reflected the culture of the age in which they were produced. In
Ancient Greece we have seen how only the gods and the souls of
great heroes spoke through the oracles. In the Middle Ages it was
the saints from heaven or the devils from the pit who manifested
through the foaming mouths of the hysterics. Except for few cases
recorded in the annals of the early French “ magnetizers ” (or mes­
merists), it was not until 1848 that the spirits of common men
were permitted to speak. Why were the Uncle Dicks of Bermondsey
and the plain Tom Joneses of the world silent through such long
ages ? Certainly not for lack of mediums. These communications
are influenced by the general religious beliefs of the age ; they vary
also with those of the social groups in which they occur. Thus
in the table-turning séances of Jersey in which Victor Hugo took
part, not only did the spirit of Molière expound his views in sonor­
ous Hugoesque verse, but such legendary characters as the Lion
of Androcles and even the abstract Virtues also wrote poems reminis­
cent of Victor Hugo. Again we may ask why the great scientists
and authors appear to lose their intelligence and talk pretentious
nonsense when their spirits return through the mediums ? If their
souls survive it would seem that their brains certainly do not.
,§4 7. Professor Broad a few years ago put forward the theory
that a human mind is produced by the combination of a bodily
organism and a psychic or mental factor. This psychic factor is
not a mind in itself but only becomes a true mind when it reacts
with a living organism. Thus when Tom Jones dies, all that remains
of his mind is the psychic factor. When this psychic factor comes
into contact with the organism of an entranced medium it com-
s.o. 265 s
Spiritualism Spiritualism
bines with this organism to form a temporary mind which has
some of the characteristics of the mind of Tom Jones and some
of the characteristics of the medium's mind. The communicator
can reveal nothing that is credible about his life in the other world
for the simple reason that he does not exist as a true mind in any
such world. But he still retains memories from the life of Tom
Jones, and of these the temporary mind can speak. A similar
theory was put forward by M. René Sudre in 1925 ; he identifies
Broad's psychic factor with the Bergsonian Pure Memory. These
modem theories are reminiscent of the Homeric conception of the
souls in Hades. When Odysseus wishes to communicate with the
spirits of the heroes he digs a trench and spills in it the blood of
goats. The poor pale phantoms of Hades flock to the trench that
they may drink of the blood and so gain a little strength to enable
them to speak. Substitute “ psychic factors " for “ pale phantoms "
and the body of the medium for the “ blood of goats " and the old
legend becomes the modem theory. As a matter of fact, however,
the mediumistic phenomena themselves hardly support Broad's
theory. One of the commonest experiences noted by those who
experiment much with spirit mediums is the observation that the
“ spirits " of one's deceased relatives seem to be aware of domestic
changes that have occurred after their death. Thus the “ spirit "
will note that a new wing has been added to the house or that a
piece of furniture has been moved. At a sitting of my own with
Mrs. Blanche Cooper, the soi-disant spirit of my brother greeted
me with the words : “ Sam, I was with you yesterday." Asked
where I had been, he gave correctly, or almost correctly, the name
(“ Doggetts ") of the farm which I had visited. On Broad's theory,
if the psychic factor is not a true mind and the temporary “ mind-
kin " exists only while the séance is in progress, it is difficult to
see how it can be aware of events that happen outside the séance-
room. On the other hand, the telepathic theory furnishes us with
a quite satisfactory explanation. Of the nature of the psychic
factor in its free state, Broad gives us no inkling. But M. René
Sudre holds with Bergson that a man's memories are not stored
up in the cells of his brain but exist in a world of unconscious mental
states. The brain is merely an instrument of action which trans­
lates an unconscious mental state into the sphere of conscious life.
Like a lens, the brain gathers up the rays of our unconscious past
and focuses them into a moment of conscious life. Thus when a
man's brain is destroyed, his unconscious past experience still sur­
vives and can be temporarily resuscitated to conscious life by the
brain of a medium. It would, however, be necessary to apply such
a theory as this only in those very rare and doubtful cases in which
the “ spirit " reveals some piece of information known to himself
during life but not now in the memory of any living person. But
even in such cases the ordinary telepathic explanation is not ruled
out, for the contents of the sealed envelope or notebook known
apparently only to the dead man may, during his lifetime, have
been telepathically transferred to the mind of some living person
266
Spiritualism Spiritualism
who survives him and so may be accessible to the mind of the
medium.
S48. Another serious objection to the spirit hypothesis arises out
of the observation that there are certain people who, though plenti­
fully supplied with deceased relatives and friends, never succeed
in getting any evidence of their survival through any medium they
care to visit. On the " spirit" hypothesis this is almost inexplic­
able, but on the telepathic hypothesis we must assume that such
persons are bad “ agents." That is to say, their subconscious minds
are not easily penetrated by the medium. This interpretation is
supported by the fact that non-spiritistic sensitives like Mme Morel
experience exactly the same difficulty when they attempt to delineate
the lives and connections of certain individuals. The sensitive finds
herself unable to penetrate the mental atmosphere of the person
who has come to see her; she is able to tell him nothing of any
interest, while with other people she is successful at once. It seems
therefore reasonable to attribute the failure of the spirit medium
and the non-spiritualist sensitive to the same cause—namely, an
inability to penetrate a certain type of subconscious mind. Certain
spiritualists like Mr. J. Arthur Hill have argued that, on the tele­
pathic theory, it is difficult to understand how the medium is able,
out of the myriads of names and incidents contained in the sitter's
memory, to choose correctly just those which are appropriate to a
particular deceased person. The difficulty disappears if we envisage
the process of telepathic communication as a sort of conversation
between the subconscious minds of the medium, and sitter. It is,
however, more important to observe that the same selective power
is shown in choosing appropriate material in those cases where there
is no question of the intervention of the spirits of the dead. Thus
in the case of " John Ferguson " we might ask why was the medium
able, out of the myriads of names in my mind, to select the names
“ Highland Avenue," " Onget Road," etc., which were appropriate
to the case under consideration ? The same power of appropriate
selection is shown over and over again in the cases studied by Dr.
Osty in which “ spirits " were not in question. In fact, the diffi­
culty is just as great in the non-spiritistic cases as in the spiritistic
ones.
§ 49. We need not linger over those alleged communications from
dead authors which claim to reproduce their peculiar literary styles
and habits of thought. Such were the spirit " messages " which
purported to come from Oscar Wilde in 1923. In the first place
it is extremely difficult to prove that such automatic writings are
genuine and not essays deliberately composed and memorized, then
afterwards reproduced in the séance-room. It would be fairly easy
for any competent writer to produce a few pages of dialogue in
the epigrammatic, antithetical style of Oscar Wilde and also to
write a few short impressionistic essays in Wilde's decorative manner.
This is especially true of an author like Oscar Wilde whose frothy
thought conceals no very profound depths. And even if these
messages are genuine automatic scripts the imitation of the style
267
Spunkie Stone of the Philosophers
and handwriting of the dead author proves very little. It is cer­
tain that the automatist " Mr. V." had read several of Wilde's books
in 1914 and he may have seen a specimen of the handwriting of
the dead author in a facsimile of a Wilde letter which was repro­
duced in the Comtesse de Br&nont's Oscar Wilde—a book promi­
nently displayed in the bookstalls about the year 1915. Moreover,
while the style is a tolerable imitation, there are certain astronomical
and botanical allusions in the script which are not altogether char­
acteristic of the living Wilde. The Oscar Wilde case, in fact, is
of far inferior importance as evidence for human survival than,
say, the case of George Pelham obtained through Mrs. Piper.
S. G. Soal.
Spunkie. A Scottish goblin that
appears like a light to lure
travellers from the path.
Ssu L ung Wang. See Chinese
Occultism, § 11.
Stainton, M oses. See Spiritual­
ism , Part III, § 10.
Starkey, George. See Alchemy,
§ 12.
Starr, Meredith. A noted au­
thority on Oriental occultism.
For his more important Con­
structive Psychology, see Rich­
ard Ince, A Dictionary o f Reli­
gion and Religions.
Stars and Metals. See Astro-
logy, § 3-
Steinach. See Alchemy, § 72.
Stella, C. See Spiritualism,
Part II, § 9.
Stephen of Cloyes. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§21.
Stevenson, Robert L ouis. See
Mandrake, § 14, and English
Literature mid the Occult, § 18.
268
Stichomancy. Divination by
random passages found in books.
Stigmata Miracle. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§2.
Still People. See Fairies, § 11.
Stoker, Bram. SeeEnglish Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 19, and
Vampire, the, § 15.
Stone, Philosophers’. See Philo­
sophers’ Stone.
Stone, the Red. See Alchemy,
§§ 20, 37.
Stone, the White. See Alchemy,
§§20, 37, 44. 59. 60-
Stone Age, occult ideas in. See
History of Occult Ideas, §§ 2-7.
Stone Age Venus. See History
of Occult Ideas, §§ 8-10.
Stonehenge. See History of Oc­
cu lt Ideas, § 23.
Stone of Live Metal. See A l­
chemy, § 19.
“ Stone of the Philosophers,
See Alchemy, § 37, near
end.
Stone of Wisdom
Stone of Wisdom. See Alchemy,
§ 19-
Stripuja. See Buddhist Occult­
ism , § i i .
St . Simeon Stylites. SeePsycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena,
§§ 3-5-
Succubus. See Incubus.
Sufism. See Moslem Occultism,
§ io .
Sukshma-sarira. See History of
Occult Ideas, § 47.
SULAYMAN. See Moslem Occult­
ism , § 20.
Sumer. See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 30-4, 39, 50, 60.
:Summa Perfectionis.” See A l­
chemy, § 23.
Summers, M ontague. See Black
M agic, §§ 16-17 ; Devil-wor­
ship, § 5 ; Literature o f Occult­
ism , §18 ; Vampire, §15 ;
Werewolf, the, §5; and
craft, §§ 4, 14, 25.
Sunamitism. Magical rejuvena­
tion by sleeping with the young.
Supernatural in English Litera­
ture, the. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult.
Surya. See Indian Occultism,
§6.
Sutra of the Net of Brahma.
See Buddhist Occultism, § 6.
Swastika. (From Sanscrit su,
“ well ” ; as, “ to be;” mean­
ing “ so be it ” ; equivalent to
269
T ai chi
“ amen.”) Also called fylfot.
It is a sun or/and fire symbol,
and may be compared to St.
Andrew’s Cross. It was used
as the monogram of Siva (q.v.)
and Visnu (q.v.) in India, was
carried into China with Bud­
dhism, and used also to sym­
bolize sun- andfire-godsin other
parts of the world. Earliest
European use—the badge of
Thor (Norse). The true Swas­
tika's crampons are directed to­
wards the right, !fl. When re­
versed, it is termed a
Sauvastika.
Swift, A. L., and ghost. See
Ghosts, § 6.
Swift, Jonathan (Dean). See
Literature of Occultism, § 38.
Swimming a Witch. See Witch­
craft, § 11.
Swinburne. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 9.
Sympathetic Magic. See Black
M agic, §§ 3-4.
Synge. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 15.
T able-turning. See Spiritual­
ism, Part I, § 24.
T abu. SeeHistory of Occult Ideas,
§§96-7.
T‘ai chi. The origin of all
created things. It is expressed
by a circle, having two semi­
circles facing in opposite direc­
tions, side by side on the ori­
ginal diameter. It typifies Y in
and Yang, and surrounded by
T ‘ai Shang K an Y ing P'ien
an octagon composed of the
eight diagrams, is considered a
powerful charm against evil.
(See Chinese Occultism.)
T ‘ai Shang Kan Y ing P'ien. See
Chinese Occultism, § io.
T ammuz and Ishtar. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 39-41.
T ‘an. See Chinese Occultism,
§n -
T antrism. See Buddhist Occult­
ism, §§ 8-10.
T aoism. See Chinese Occultism.
T arot Cards. See White Magic,
§ 4-
T a-T s‘ing luh li. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 8.
T ausend, alchemist. See A l­
chemy, § 52, and Literature of
Occultism, § 22.
T axi-cab, Phantom. See Ghosts,
§ 5-
T elekinesis. See History of Oc­
cult Ideas, § 49 ; and Spiritual­
ism, §§ 1-18.
T elekinetoscope. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 9.
T eleplasm . See S p iritu a lism ,
Part II, § 19-27.
T endai-shu Sect. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 13.
T ennyson. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, §§ 5, 9.
T ephramancy. Divination by
writing in ashes.
T inctorb
T est-tube, ghost of. See Ghosts,
§6.
THEOMANCY. Divination by
oracles.
T hessalian W itch craft. See
Occultism in Ancient Greece and
Rome, § 4.
T hibet. See Tibet.
T high-bone T rumpet. A trum­
pet made from an executed
criminal’s thigh-bone, used by
the Lamas to summon the
demons and other spirits.
T homas, Rev. D rayton. See
Spiritualism, Part III, § 26.
T hompson, C. J. S. See Litera­
ture of Occultism, § 37.
T hor. See History o f Occult
Ideas, §§ 81, 83-5.
“ T housand and One Nights,
the.” See Moslem Occultism,
§ 20.
T hreefold Purification. See
Buddhist Occultism, § 12.
T ibet, occult ideas in. See H is­
tory of Occult Ideas, §§ 51-2.
T ides and Moon. See Astrology,
§ i.
T ‘ien Lung. See Chinese Occult­
ism, § 11.
T ien Mu. Goddess of Lightning
(China).
T iffereau. See Alchemy, § 9.
T incture, the. See Alchemy,
§§19. 63.
270
T i-tsang Wang
T i-tsang Wang. Ruler of the
Chinese Buddhist imder-world
and also the protector of little
children.
TrruBA. See Witchcraft, § 21.
T olstoi. See English Literature
and the Occult, § 18.
T orah. See Moslem Occultism,
§ 20.
T orquemada. See Witchcraft, § 2.
T ortoise. See Chinese Occultism,
§ 13-
T otemism. See Werewolf, §4.
T ransmutation. See Alchemy,
§ 49-
“ T reatise of Mercury, the.”
See Alchemy, § 35.
T révisan, Bernard. See Alchemy,
§ 34-
T rismosinus. See Pfeiffe.
T rithemius. See Alchemy, § 64.
“ T riumphal Chariot of Anti­
mony, the.” SeeAlchemy, §32.
T riune T reasure. See Buddhist
Occultism, § 13.
T roll. See Fairies, § 7.
T rows. See Fairies, § 10.
T rumps (major and minor). See
White Magic, § 4.
Valiantine
T urgeniev. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 18.
T wain, Mark. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 19.
IT ycho Brahe. See Astrology,
§ 14-
U
Ulk. Old German form of Elf.
Unconscious Mind. See Psycho­
therapy and Psychic Phenomena.
Undine. A female water-sprite.
Also, Ondine.
Universal Panacea. Merely an­
other name for the
Life. (See Alchemy,
e-g-, § 36.)
Upanishads. See Indian Occult-
ism , § 2.
Ur. See History of Occtdt Ideas,
§ 35*
Uranus. See Astrology, §§ 6-8.
U r im and T h u m m im . An ancient
method of Hebrew divination
by casting lots, and asking cate­
gorical questions to which only
“ Yes ’’ or “ No " might
Usas. See Indian Occultism, § 6.
Uvani.” SeeSpiritualism, Part
HI, § 6.
V
Valentine, Basil. See Alchemy,
§§17. 32.
Valiantine, G. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 45.
271
TRYAMOUR. See Fairies, § 6.
Vampire Vampire
THE VAMPIRE
§ i. “ The solemn tones of the old cathedral dock have announced
midnight—the air is thick and heavy—a strange, death-like stillness
pervades all nature. . . . A faint peal of thunder now comes from
afar off. Like a signal gun for the battle of the winds to begin, it
appeared to awaken them from their lethargy, and one awful, warring
hurricane swept over a whole dty. . . . It was as if some giant
had blown upon some toy town . . . for as suddenly as that blast
of wind had come did it cease. . . . What is that—a strange
pattering noise as of a million fairy feet ? . . . a hail-storm has
burst over the city. . . . There is an antique chamber in an ancient
house. Curious and quaint carvings adorn the walls, and the large
chimney-piece is a curiosity itself. . . . A large bay window, from
roof to floor, looks to the west. The window is latticed. . . . There
is but one portrait in that room . . . that of a young man, with a
pale face, a stately brow, and a strange expression about the eyes,
which no one cared to look on twice. There is a stately bed in that
chamber, of carved walnut-wood is it made. . . . The bed . . . is
occupied. A creature formed in all fashions of loveliness lies in a
half-sleep upon that ancient couch—a girl young and beautiful as a
spring morning. . . . A neck and bosom that would have formed
a study for the rarest sculptor that ever Providence gave genius to,
were half disclosed. . . . Now she moves, and one shoulder is
entirely visible—whiter, fairer than the spotless clothing of the bed
onwhich she lies, is the smooth skin of that faircreature. . . . Was
that lightning? Yes—an awful vivid, terrifying flash—then a
roaring peal of thunder, as if a thousand mountains were rolling
one over the other in the blue vault of Heaven! . . . Now she
awakens. . . . Another flash . . . of lightning streams across that
bay window. . . . A shriek bursts from the lips of the young girl,
and then, with eyes fixed upon that window, which, in another
moment is all darkness, and with such an expression of terror on
her face as it had never before known, she trembled, and the perspira­
tion of intense fear stood upon her brow. ' What—what was it ? '
she gasped; ‘ real, or a delusion ? . . . A figure tall and gaunt,
endeavouring from the outside to unclasp the window. I saw it.
That flash of lightning revealed it to me. . . .' . . . A strange
clattering sound came upon the glass. . . . It could not be a
delusion—she is awake, and she hears it. What can produce it ?
Another flash of lightning—another shriek—there can be now no
delusion.
§2. "A tall figure is standing on the ledge. . . . It is its finger­
nails on the glass that produce the sound. . . . Intense fear
paralysed the limbs of that beautiful girl. That one shriek is all she
can utter—with hands clasped, a face of marble, a heart beating
so wildly in her bosom, that each moment it seems as if it would
break its confines, eyes distended and fixed . . . she waits, frozen
with horror. . . . What strange light is that which now gradually
creeps up into the air ? red and terrible—brighter and brighter it
272
V a m p ir e V a m p ir e
grows. The lightning has set fire to a mill, and the reflection of the
rapidly consuming building falls upon that long window. There
can be no mistake. The figure is there, still feeling for an entrance,
and clattering against the glass with its long nails, that appear as if
the growth of many years had been untouched. She tries to scream
again, but a choking sensation comes over her, and she cannot. . . .
She tries to move—each limb seems wedged down by tons of lead.
. . . A small pane of glass is broken, and the form from without
introduces a long gaunt hand, which seems utterly destitute of flesh.
The fastening is removed, and one half of the window . . . is swung
wide open upon its hinges. . . . She could not scream—she could
not move. . . . The figure turns half round, and the light falls
upon the face. It is perfectly white—perfectly bloodless. The eyes
look like polished tin; the Ups are drawn back, and the principal
feature next to those dreadful eyes is the teeth . . . projecting like
those of some wild animal, hideously, glaringly white, and fang-Uke.
It approaches the bed with a strange, gUding movement. It clashes
together the long nails that literally appear to hang from the finger
ends. No sound comes from its Ups. Is she going mad ? . . . The
power of movement has returned to her; she can draw herself
slowly to the other side of the bed from that towards which the
hideous appearance is coming. But her eyes are fascinated. The
glance of a serpent could not have produced a greater effect upon
her. . . . Crouching down so that the gigantic height was lost, and
the horrible, protruding, white face was the most prominent object,
came on the figure. What was it ?—what did it want there ?—
what made it look so hideous—so unlike an inhabitant of the earth,
and yet to be on it ? Now she has got to the verge of the bed, and
the figure pauses. . . . The clothing of the bed was now clutched
in her hands with unconscious power. She drew her breath short
and thick. Her bosom heaves, and her Umbs tremble. . . . The
storm has ceased—aU is stiU. . . . The church clock proclaims the
hour of one : a hissing sound comes from the throat of the hideous
being, and he raises his long, gaunt arms—the Ups move. He
advances. The girl places one smaU foot from the bed on to the
floor. . . . Has she power to walk ? . . . Half on the bed and
half out of it that young girl Ues trembling. Her long hair streams
across the entire width of the bed. . . . With a sudden rush that
could not be foreseen—with a strange howUng cry that was enough
to awaken terror in every breast, the figure seized the long tresses
. . . and twining them round his bony hands he held her to the bed.
. . . She was dragged by her long silken hair completely on to it
again. . . . He drags her head to the bed's edge. . . . With a
plunge he seizes her neck in his fang-Uke teeth—a gush of blood, and
a . . . sucking noise foUows . . . the vampyre is at his hideous
repast / "
§ 3. The foregoing somewhat lengthy quotation is from the first
chapter of Varney the Vampire ; or the Feast of Blood, by Thomas
Preskett Prest. It was first pubUshed in 1847, and is now considered
among the rare books of the period. Its florid style would doubtless
273
V a m p ir e V a m p ir e
exdude it from a modem list of “ best sellers ” ; nevertheless, for
lurid description and accurate details concerning a visit from a vam­
pire, there is little in literature to excel it.
§ 4. A vampire is in the category of demons, fiends, night-howling
horrors, and visitants from beyond the grave, but it is not a ghost.
It is an animated corpse, that periodically rises from the tomb to
suck the blood of living persons: fortified by this sustenance: it
remains quick, and upon exhumation proves to have colour in the
cheeks, red lips, supple flesh and flexible joints. The method of
disposing of a vampire is to cut off the head with a sexton's spade,
and drive a stake through the heart—which results in the cadaver
bleeding profusely, just as a living person would if treated in such
a manner. After this the remains are burnt, and so the pest is
dispatched for ever. Persons who have been attacked by this
unsavoury monster, sad to say, are themselves doomed to become
vampires after death.
§ 5. Belief in the existence of the vampire was current in Greece
and Rome. In the former place they were termed Empusa, and
the best narrative concerning such a being occurs in the Life of
Apollonius of Tyana, by Philostratus. One of this great philosopher's
pupils, Menippus, a comely youth of five-and-twenty, found himself
pursued by a foreign woman, who was both beautiful and very rich.
Being a budding philosopher did not prevent Menippus being also
a devotee of Aphrodite ; hence, after visiting the lady at her superb
villa in a suburb of Corinth, the wedding was arranged. The wise
Apollonius hearing of this, warned his pupil that he was cherishing
and being cherished by a serpent, and prognosticatedthat the nuptials
would never be celebrated. It seemed the philosopher was wrong,
for the wedding-breakfast was at last set and the guests present;
but at this happy gathering he appeared, an unbidden guest, and
declared all the appurtenances of the feast to be only a semblance
of reality, whereupon the precious goblets, the cooks, and wine-
bearers disappeared, leaving the astonished Menippus to hear from
the lips of the lady that she was indeed a vampire, fattening him
for her own unnatural repast.
§ 6. Walter Map, writing about 1195, gives many stories of similar
curious incidents occurring in England. Perhaps the most note­
worthy among them is the following: A certain knight married a
lady of unsullied reputation with whom he lived happily. The
morning after his first child was bom, it was found in its crib with
its throat cut from ear to ear. The same ill fate befell his second
and his third child, despite every precaution. At the birth of the
fourth child the whole house was illuminated with torches and a
dose watch kept. During the evening a venerable stranger knocked
and begged shelter in God's name. This being granted, and the
cause of the exdtement in the house explained, hd, too, offered to
watch. At midnight, all save the stranger fell asleep, and soon a
woman entered, but, on the point of murdering the newly-born child,
she was seized and held by the vigilant watcher. The ensuing
uproar awoke the bewitched company who, one and all, recognized
274
V a m p ir e V a m p ir e
the evil intruder—but they could not believe their eyes, for the lady
was one of the most respected and pious persons in the district.
Declaring it must be a mistake, they advised the stranger to let her
go, but this he refused to do. Instead, a messenger was dispatched
to the captive's house where, curiously enough, she was found at
home! Filled with horror at the incredible story, and returning
post-haste with the messenger she saw the vampire demon, her
double, howl in terror and disappear in a flash of flame and a cloud
of stinking, sulphurous smoke. This, of course, is not a true vampire,
but a demon possessed of vampiristic appetites, which to satisfy, it
assumes disguises that will afford it the best advantage.
5 7. T. P. Prest's Varney the Vampire, already quoted, is typical
of the conventional blood-sucking night visitant. Prest declares
that his narrative is founded on facts occurring in England in the
reign of Queen Anne, which declaration, however, proves but novel-
istic hyperbole, for no amount of patient research reveals his sources.
The belief in vampirism seems to have been quite extinct in England
at that period, though it is possible that the superstition surrounding
death due to pulmonary consumption was very prevalent; indeed,
it still lingers : persons dying of the disease are supposed, if they are
not cremated, to return from the grave and feed upon the vital
forces of their relations. No doubt, the repeated example of members
of a consumptive family succumbing, one after another, on reaching
maturity, preserves the ghoulish superstition. The vampire belief
is also kept alive by the existence of the “ psychic sponge "—the
intensely excited person who, at a social gathering, seems to grow
brighter and gayer as the rest of the company becomes tired out,
rendered flaccid by such inordinate brilliance. Further, the term is
applied to a boring person having a like depressing effect, and to any
rapacious or heartless person. There are also two species of blood­
sucking vampire bats : the larger, about 3 inches in length, is found
in Central America and south to Brazil and Chile; the smaller,
rather a rare specimen, is confined to Brazil. Both species live in
caves or hollow trees, and fly abroad at night. They settle on cattle,
and, after making a slicing wound with chisel-shaped teeth, suck
bloodrfrom the exposed capillaries. There was much doubt cast upon
their existence till Darwin had the good fortune to " catch one in
the act ” on one of the camp horses.
§ 8. Necrophilia, i.e., sexual interest in corpses, is also sometimes
termed vampirism. This type of dementia is more common than
is generally supposed, and even if such blatant cases of disinterment
and violation, as that of the notorious French Sergeant Bertrand 1
(1849) are rare, murder is sometimes committed with no other
motive.
§ 9. To the Czech and Slav peoples the vampire is, and apparently
always has been, a very prevalent terror. There is extant a docu­
ment signed by three army surgeons, a lieutenant-colonel and a
sub-lieutenant, dated January 1732, giving full details of a case of
vampirism occurring near Belgrade. A young man, named Arnold
» See The W
erewolf.
275
V a m p ir e
V a m p ir e
Paole, returned from active military service and settled down in his
native village. He married, and, the story has it, confessed to his
wife that whilst in foreign parts he had been bitten by a vampire.
He met with an early accidental death and was decently buried, but
about a month after, his shade was seen haunting the village. Panic
ensued when those who had beheld the apparition began to decline
into a state of anaemia; and when they all died of their weakness
no one dared to go out of doors. The military authorities undertook
to investigate the matter, and decided to exhume the body of Paole.
When the coffin was at last brought to the surface and opened, the
corpse was found to have " moved to one side, the jaws gaped wide
open and blub lips were moist with new blood which had trickled
in a thin stream from the comer of the mouth ” (Montague Summers,
The Vampire in Europe, p. 153). The usual precaution, that of
driving a stake through the heart, was taken and the body burned,
together with the disinterred remains of his victims; but alas, some
years later deaths due to anaemia recommenced. Again the military
authorities intervened, exhumed the bodies, all of which were found
in the vampire condition, and destroyed them. According to
Montague Summers, the vampire that had in the first place bitten
Paole, was possessed of a more than usually venomous demon able
to survive in a discamate state.
§ 10. It does not, in any of the foregoing cases, appear why the
stricken villagers did not take the precaution of protecting themselves
with garlic, for it is well known that this root proves an impassable
barrier to even the most famished vampire. All over Czecho-
Slavakia, Hungary, and much of Russia, an epidemic disease among
cattle is considered due to the attack of vampires. Even as late as
1923, and in so metropolitan a place as Belgrade itself, a case of
haunting of the poltergeist type was described in the press as the
visit of a vampire.
§ 11. In Russia, Roumania, Bulgaria, Dalmatia, Albania—in short,
all East European countries—people believe in the vampire, and
believe also in garlic as a sovereign remedy against its attacks.
§ 12. In Asia, too, vampires are a source of terror to the populace.
A Chinese story which is referred to the 18th century, centres round
a wedding taking place at Peking. As the bride's sedan-chair passes
an old tomb, a cloud of thick dust is blown over it. When the
vehicle arrives at the house, two brides, exactly identical with each
other, alight. Nothing can be done, the ceremony cannot be inter­
rupted. Later, piercing screams bring the guests running to the
chamber door, which on being broken open reveals the husband in
a trance, motionless on the floor, the bride on the bed with the
flesh ripped from her face and her eyes tom out. Overhead, in the
rafters, was perched an enormous black bird of hideous appearance,
which escaped with a great flapping of wings as soon as the door
was forced. When the husband regained consciousness, he related
how one of the duplicate brides had stmck him in the face, then
changed into a bird, and pecked out his eyes—for he, too, was blind.
This vampire is somewhat different from the European conception,
276
V a m p ir e V a m p ir e
though it possesses more vampire characteristics than appear on the
surface, for the draining of the bride's blood is implied.
§ 13« In the Malay Peninsula, vampires consist of a human head,
with the entrails hanging forth from the severed neck in a long
streaming appendage. These horrors fly through the air, sucking
blood wheresoever they may come upon an unprotected sleeper,
their favourite victims being children. Young persons are also
liable to attack by the blood-lusty demon called the Bajang, which
assumes the form of a polecat. In England it is believed that the
ordinary domestic cat may “ suck a baby's breath," a superstition
possibly having its roots in the demonological fears which linger
beneath the surface of civilization. However, it might also be due
to the fact of cats having been known to smother very young children
by sleeping on them.
§ 14. It is equally difficult either uncritically to accept vampires
or indiscriminately to refute all the evidence, much of which, as in
the case of Paole, is of a reliable nature. Cases of delayed decom­
position are far from unknown to medical jurisprudence. This
phenomenon is quite common if the deceased has been an arsenic-
eater, and it may also be the result of natural mummification taking
place. In any case, decent burial and normal decomposition are
considered desirable, and the sinner is warned that he will find no
rest in the grave. Somewhat contrarily, saints also are reputed to
resist the process of decay.
§ 15. Dr. Ernest Jones in his book, On Nightmare, has devoted a
whole chapter to the psycho-analytical aspects of vampirism, whilst
Montague Summers in two admirable works, The Vampire in Europe
and The Vampire, H is K ith and K in , has treated the subject exhaus­
tively from the occultistic point of view. In fiction, the vampire
has never failed to draw a large public, and among the noteworthy
pieces, other than T. Preskett Prest's, we have The Vampyre: a Tale
by Lord Byron (but said to have actually been written by the
poet's companion-physician, Dr. William Polidori). The story tells
of Lord Ruthven—a nobleman of strange, sombre mien, who appears
at the height of the London season. He meets a brother and sister,
orphans, of great wealth, and sets out with the youth on Continental
travels. Ruthven proves of a criminal turn of mind, and at last is
shot and killed in the interior of Greece ; but instead of being buried,
in fulfilment of a promise extracted before death, the body is laid
on the highest pinnacle of a mountain where the “ first cold ray of
the moon " might fall upon it. Arriving back in London, the youth
finds his sister about to be married to a certain Earl of Marsden,
who proves none other than Lord Ruthven—a monster that, dead,
still lives ! The brother, bound by oath, cannot prevent the wedding ;
and when at last he is freed from the bond of his word, it is too late—
his sister has already " glutted the thirst of a vampire." The story
met with so popular a success that " a Lord Ruthven " came to mean
a vampire.
S 16. In more modem times we have Bram Stoker's D racula, first
published in 1897, and dramatized by Hamilton Deane in 1925.
277
V a n ir W e b st e r
It is not a good book, but it ran through numerous editions. It
made an even worse play, although it attracted vast audiences.
Such is the fascination surrounding that worst of all occult horrors—
not even a “ decent ghost ” but a filthy, revolting, resuscitated
corpse, prolonging its unnatural existence by sucking, from the
unprotected throat of the living, its sustenance in the form of their
life-blood.
J. F.
Book recommended:
Givrey, Grillot de, Witchcraft, Magic and Alchemy, translated by J. Cour­
tenay Locke (Harrap, 1931).
V a n i r . See History of Occult
Ideas, §§ 81-2.
V a n S t r a a t e n . SeeFlying Dutch­
man.
“ V a r n e y t h e V a m p ir e .” See
Vampire, the, §§ 1-2, 7.
V a r u n a . See Indian Occultism,
§6.
V a s u s . See Indian Occultism, §4.
V a u g h a n , D i a n a . See Devil-wor-
'P> § 4*
V a u g h a n , T h o m a s . SeeAlchemy,
§§ 12, note ; 35, note ; 44.
V e n u s . See Astrology, §§ 6-7.
V i d y a . See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 9 .
V il l a n o v a , A r n o l d d e . See A l­
chemy, §§ 28, 66.
VlSNU. See History o f Occult
Ideas, § 46 ; a n d Indian Occult­
ism , § 6.
V iv a s v a t . See Indian Occultism,
§ 4 *
V o l t a ir e . See Alchemy, § 79.
V o r o n o f f .
Vril. A mysterious psychic force
that is, foronce, admittedpurely
fictitious by all parties. The
invention of Lord Lytton, it
appears in his Coming Race.
V r t r a . See Indian Occultism,
§ 7 -
W
W a it e , A . E . See Alchemy, §§ 20,
30»3b» 59 ; Black M agic, § 16 ;
and Literature of Occultism, § 14.
W a k e - n o - K iy o m a r o . See Bud­
dhist Occultism, § 13.
W a l p o l e , H o r a c e . See Alchemy,
§ 82 ; and English Literature
and the Occult, §§ 16-17.
W a l p o l e , H u g h . See English
Literature and the Occult, § 19.
W a r l o c k . The Devil; a mon­
strous creature; one in league
with the Devil; a sorcerer ; a
warrior magically immune from
wounds.
W ebe r , P r o f e sso r . See History
o f Occult Ideas, § 50.
W e bst e r , t h e D r a m a t is t . S ee
English Literature and the Occult,
§ 12.
278
W ebster W erew olf
W ebster, Jo h n . See Literature of
Occultism, § 17.
W eir, M ajor T h o m a s. See Witch­
craft, § 18.
W e l l o f B a b e l . See Moslem
Occultism, § 9.
W e lls, H. G. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, §§ 19, 20.
W e n tz, W . Y . E v a n s-. SeeLitera­
ture of Occultism, § 37.
W eretig er . See :
THE WEREWOLF
§ 1. Although the objective ex­
istence of the werewolf is a matter
on which both the rationalist and
the occultist agree, the former
attributes it to abnormal psycho­
logy, and the latter to the agency
of demoniac forces. Rationalism
is supported by the fact that ly-
canthropy is practised among sav­
age peoples, and their observed
methods differ in no essential
point from the cases of were-
wolfism reported in Europe at
former times.1 In other parts of
the world the metamorphosed
human being takes the form of
local wild carnivora: the tiger,
the leopard, and even the croco­
dile.
§ 2. The lycanthropist, clad in
the skin or part of the skin of
the beast he imagines himself to
be, prowls abroad at night be­
having as a wild animal, killing
and devouring sheep and goats,
and also human beings. The hys­
terical condition may be induced
voluntarily by incantation, drugs,
1The word werewolf is derived from
the Anglo-Saxon werwulf:w
ermeaning
man, and wulf, wolf.
the use of ointments, and the
donning of the pelt; or lycan-
thropic activities may be the out­
come of a maniacal seizure, as
when, for instance, a pregnant
womanmanifests (asis not uncom­
mon) an inordinate desire to con­
sume raw flesh, the appetite some­
times being accompanied by the
expectant mother's conviction
that she is possessed by an animal
spirit.
§ 3. As recently as 1919, at
Bhagalpur in India, a shopkeeper
named Rupa Sao attacked and
killed a little girl, under circum­
stances that pointed to a lycan-
thropic motive. He was found
guilty of murder, but recom­
mended to mercy and confined
in an asylum. In the interior of
the country, in the event of a
man being killed by a tiger, it is
customary to mark the corpse in
some manner that will render
recognition easy should the ghost,
in tiger shape, return to attack
the villagers.
§ 4. Totemism, a type of savage
social organization under which
the people consider themselves
descended from, and therefore re­
lated to, an animal, isnot a species
of werewolfism; but since such
folk believe in metempsychosis,
occultists not infrequently regard
totemism as a mild, one might
almost say chronic form of lycan-
thropy. The Kands of Orissa,
though not strictly a totemic
people, believe that the tiger has
their welfare at heart and there­
fore they pay it an especial re­
spect. In the event of a Kand
receiving offence from a neigh­
bour, in a revengeful frenzy he
addresses supplications to the
tiger so that this formidable beast
will grant himthe power to change
into his shape. An account of
279
W e r e w o l f W e r e w o l f
very doubtful authenticity is
given by Mr. Elliott O'Donnell
in his book, Werewolves. Accord­
ing to this narration, “ a Mr.
K-----, whose name I see in the
list of passengers reported ' miss­
ing ' in the deplorable disaster
to the T ita n ic” went into the
" haunted " part of the jungle to
witness a metamorphosis. Well
hidden, Mr. K----- observed a
young native making incanta­
tions, with the result that " a
vertical column of crimson light
of perhaps seven feet in height
and one or so in width " appeared
before him. “ A column—only a
column, though the suggestion
conveyed to me by the column
was nasty—nasty with a nasti­
ness that baffles description."
The native, who had placed a
row of beads on the ground be­
fore him, made some cryptic sign
with his fingers, whereupon “ I
then saw a stream of red light
steal from the base of the column
and dart like forked lightning to
the beads, which instantly shone
a luminous red. The native now
picked them up, and putting them
round his neck . . . [uttered] a
roar that converted every particle
of blood in my veins to ice. The
crimson colour now abruptly van­
ished, [and] I saw, peeping up at
me from the spot where the native
had lain, the yellow, glittering,
malevolent eyes, not of a man,
but a tiger—a tiger thirsting for
human blood." Mr. K----- was
miraculously saved from death on
this thrilling occasion by climb­
ing the magic Kulpa Briska tree,
and one cannot credit that he
was lost on the T ita n ic; no doubt
he was saved by the combined
efforts of a dolphin and a mer­
maid, and will come again among
uswithmoreauthentic tales to tell.
280
§ 5. In comparison with the
foregoing, the shape-shifting ex­
ploits of the European witches
sink into insignificance. These
hags only changed into purring,
domestic pussies, or else into
fleeting, timid hares; but even
such small animals, when created
by the Devil, may prove terrify­
ing enough beasts to encounter.
St. Albert the Great, in his book
On Anim als, says that devils
" can, with God's permission,
make imperfect animals " ; upon
whichMontagueSummers " would
remark that many—but not all—
authorities hold that the werewolf
has no tail. Whence, if such be
the case, it is dear that the Devil
canmake a werewolf." However,
the Freudian psychologists hold a
different point of view. Accord­
ing to them the werewolf, the
vampire, the Devil himself and all
his agents—an extremely numer­
ous band—are but phantoms
rising from the unconscious mind ;
hence—asonefictioncannot create
another—the werewolf, with or
without a tail, can only be a hys­
teric disguised, and not a human
being miraculously changed in
shape. Rationalistic analysis of
the superstition itself supports the
Freudians, for it is believed that
a wound inflicted on the beast will
show also on the man, which, if
werewolves are but maniacs dis­
guised in a wolf's skin, is very
reasonable indeed. Demonstra­
tive of this is the story from 16th-
century France, of a gentleman
who asked a huntsman to bring
him some of his bag, which the
huntsman agreed to do. How­
ever, before long he was attacked
by a very fierce wolf and barely
escaped with his life. During the
encounter he cut off one of the
animal's forepaws, and this he
W e r e w o l f W e r e w o l f
put in his bag to convince the
gentleman of his ill-fortune, and
prove that he was not retaining
game. Meeting the gentleman at
the village inn and recounting the
tale, he opened the bag and drew
forth—not a wolfs forepaw but
a woman’s hand. Recognizing a
finger-ring, the gentleman hurried
home where he found his wife
nursing a bandaged arm, which
he forced her to unwrap and dis­
covered that the hand was miss­
ing. The lady was thereupon
hastened to the flames.
§ 6. Henri Boguet of St. Claude,
who presided at many witch and
werewolf trials, in his Discours dts
Sorciers, devotes a whole chapter
to “ The Metamorphosis of Men
into Beasts . . ." and gives full
details of many interesting if ugly
cases. In 1584 a lad picking fruit
was attacked by a wolf, which was
driven off and killed by the neigh­
bours. In its last throes the crea­
ture crept beneath the bushes, and
upon being dragged out, the body
proved not that of a wolf, but of
a woman, Perrenette Gandillion.
Her brother and his son, on the
strength of this discovery, were
both charged, and confessed to
being werewolves, in which shape
they had killed and consumed
many children.
§ 7. In December 1598 a tailor
of Paris was charged with were-
wolfism on the evidence of barrels
of bleached human bones having
been discovered in his cellar.
Although he confessed to being
a werewolf, and to prowling the
woods at night, he was condemned
and burned more on the concrete
evidence of luring children into
his shop, where the murders took
place, than on the more romantic
claims of his confession. In the
same year, at Angers, a company
of people came upon the half-con­
sumed body of a youth, still warm
and bleeding. It seemed that a
wolf had just dashed into the
undergrowth, a spectacle which
set the party searching hither and
thither till they found—not the
animal, but a man named Jaques
Rollet, his hair and beard soaked
in blood, pieces of flesh still adher­
ing to his talon-like finger-nails.
He, his brother Jean and his
cousin Julien, a homeless trio of
tramps, were all apprehended and
tried at the same time. Jacques
was found guilty and condemned
to death, recommended to mercy
(which is a remarkably enlight­
ened act for that period), and
confined in an asylum. It is not
clear what became of the other
two.
§ 8. As late as 1849, i*1 Paris,
occurred the notorious case of Ser­
geant Bertrand. Since it is so re­
cent, there are no serious doubts
of the evidence, and although no
charge of animal metamorphosis,
or metempsychosis, was brought,
it is reasonable to suppose that a
few hundred years earlier the terri­
fied populace would have beheld
a wolf in the desecrated cemetery.
Many corpses had been mysteri­
ously exhumed and partially eaten
before marks suggestive of climb­
ing were found on one part of the
wall. A trap containing explo­
sives was set, and upon the charge
being fired watchers hurried to the
spot, only to see a tall, gaunt figure
give an inhuman leap and dis­
appear. Traces of military uni­
form were found adhering to the
wires of the trap, but the affair
might have remained a mystery
had not someone overheard a
common soldier relating how one
of his sergeants had been attacked
in the town and severely wounded.
W e r e w o lf W e y e r
The story was passed on to some wolves, leading themin the chase,
shrewd person who was instru- fondling them, and knowing the
mental in instituting inquiries whole pack, each by name, as if
which resulted in Sergeant Ber- they were so many pet dogs,
trand's confession. This is a case And in the more cultured litera-
of necrosadism, and no magical ture all over the world, werewolf
import is set upon it, even by the stories are to be found. Ibsen
occultists, but it is important in makesthe young Peer Gynt at his
so far as it confirms the evidence firstmeetingwith Solveig, declare:
of werewolfism attached to the I'm a werewolf at night, and I'll bite
earlier cases. It is now rare to you
encounter wolves in a wild state All over thighs and the back,
in the more civilized parts of In story, the werewolf is a man
Europe. A few hundred years or woman transformed by magic
ago they were a source of constant into a wolf. In actual fact, it is
terror to the people, hence the a psychopathic person who, in
spectacle of a man in a wolf's, or the* throes of mania, affects the
even a sheep's skin, could not fail disguise and assumes the char-
to rid the observer of his criti- acteristics of a wolf, or other
cal faculty, and send him helter- carnivorous beast,
skelter to report the presence of a J. F.
wolf. Book recommended:
§ 9. The werewolf, according to Blackwood, A ., Ancient Sorcerers
the superstition, is doomed after (Collins, 1927).
death to become a vampire, there­
fore the bodies of condemned per- W e s l e y , H e t t y . See Spiri-
sons, even though they may have tualism, Part II, § 49.
been executed by strangulation at
the stake, were always burned. W e y e r , D r . J o h n . (c. 1 5 1 6 -
In parts of Greece the peasants 1588.) A Dutch doctor of medi-
will not eat the flesh of a sheep cine who opposed witch-trials,
that has been killed by a wolf, He believed in sorcery, but con-
for fear of becoming vampires, tended that all the witchcraft
$ 10. Enchanted waters and en- was the Devil's trick to make
chanted flowers are, in many parts perjurers and murderers of pious
of the world, believed to confer priests. James I (q.v.) wrote his
the power of shape-shifting on the Dcemonobgy to oppose " one
drinker or the wearer, which called Scot, an Englishman " and
simpleact initself isgenerallycon- “ Wierus, a German physitian."
sidered sufficient, though some- Weyer was physician to Duke
times a magical cantrip needs to William of Cleves, who protected
be repeated. The spell is always him from the Inquisition, and
entered into at sunset, and human after the duke's death Countess
form is regained at sunrise. The Anna of Tecklenburg offered him
folk-lore of all people abounds in hospitality. His literary works
stories of shape-shifting, and also were banned by the Church and
inlegends of strange, solitary souls publicly burned by the Univer-
who dwell alone in the depths of sity of Marburg. It is the habit
the forest and, without changing of German writers to claim him
their form, act as king of the as their countryman.
282
W h it e M a g ic W h it e M a g ic
WHITE MAGIC
§ I. Persons wishing to consort with either good or evil spirits
for a beneficent or innocent purpose, invoke them by ceremonial,
or white magic ; but as consorting with demons is not by any means
healthy for the soul, ceremonial magic might be stigmatized as
” black as a tar-barrel.” However, as a contrast, the simple " palm­
ing ” of a coin is also, to the child who gurgles with delight, a feat of
magic ; and between the two is much fortune-telling, folk-medicine,
crystal-gazing, and other items of magically harmless amusement.
§ 2. Persons engaged in Psychical Research are continually dis­
covering new, or at least, modem developments of old conjuring
tricks, and Mr. Maskelyne is no less a magician than many who in
days gone by suffered death at the stake in punishment for their
wickedness. Legerdemain on the part of the operator figures as
large as lack of critical ability in the observer ; and when mechanical
apparatus, such as distorting-mirrors, magnets, speaking-trumpets
coupled with ventriloquism, and divers other instruments are used
to induce optical and auditory illusion, the most penetrating powers
of criticism are subject to deception. When messages are read from
a paper placed inside a metal box, and the time accurately told from
a closed hunter watch, it seems that superhuman and truly magical
abilities are at work; nevertheless, the faculty to perform both of
these miracles is admittedly a “ trick ” and nothing more on the
assurance of those (or at least the more honest or intelligent of those)
who earn a living by performing them. It is common knowledge
that volumes of ectoplasm have materialized into yards of butter-
muslin. This, however, does not prove that all ectoplasm is butter-
muslin, nor that many persons practising as fortune-tellers and the
like do not honestly believe themselves in possession of the psychic
powers they lay claim to, neither does it conclusively disprove the
existence of such superhuman abilities.
§ 3. Apart from the activities of the modem spiritualists, the
most common form of white magic practised to-day is fortune-telling.
This covers all the ground between the social event in which the
dregs left at the bottom of a tea-cup are “ read,” to actual clair­
voyance. Crystal-gazing, or crystallomancy, is still practised ; but
whereas in ancient times the seer worked according to the rules of
astrology—picking the hour of operation by consulting the stars,
inscribing zodiacal signs on the floor and walls of the room and
burning incense—nowadays no such elaborate precautions are taken.
Rock-crystal, turned and polished into a sphere about 4 inches in
diameter, is the ideal material for use; failing this, a glass ball will
answer. Liquid surfaces may also be used, water, ink, and even
treacle being among the seer's implements, but such practice is more
properly called hydromancy. The crystal-gazer usually works in a
subdued light, sitting and concentrating on the shining sphere until
a state of auto-hypnosis is induced with its attendant visual hallucina­
tion. Thus far modem science can keep pace with magic; it is
when the visionary sees in the glass an event taking place at the
283
W hite Magic White Magic
same moment in a distant part of the world, or, as so frequently
happens, accurately describes an incident which has not yet occurred,
that the magician leaps far ahead of the doctor. Louis Berman, in
Food and Character, has coined an expression " bodymind,” and
though it does not adorn the language, it does very aptly express the
fact that the mind and body are not separate and distinct entities
(the former being carried or contained in the latter), but that the
two in existence and function are one, hence every physical movement,
no matter how small, affects the mind, and vice versa. The blinking
of an eyelid has its corresponding mental equivalent, and to " think
of a number ” results in the body reproducing the thought in minia­
ture. These minute physical movements might be discernible
unconsciously by an extremely sensitive (i.e., clairvoyant) person,
in which case, much crystallomancy and telepathy is explicable;
but these facts, indisputable though they be, still do not go all the
way, and an insoluble residue of magic remains.
§ 4. Cartomancy, or card-reading, is another surviving form of
fortune-telling, for which purpose the more exclusive practitioners
make use of the tarot pack. There is a stack of literature on the
subject of the tarot cards—most of it very unreliable and misleading.
Mystics, seers and magicians, more particularly the French members
of the brotherhood, have vied with each other in establishing the
antiquity of the cards, and their arguments, reduced to a logical
absurdity, result in the conclusion that “ in the beginning were the
tarots ’’ and Creation came next, just to render them useful. It
seems fairly well established, however, that the cards were brought
into Europe by the gipsies, and as the origin of these people remains
unknown, so does the derivation of their cards. The pack consists
of seventy-eight pictorial cards, twenty-two of which are called the
“ major arcana or trumps major/' and fifty-six (four suits of fourteen
cards) the " minor arcana or trumps minor." The major arcana
consists of the magician, the high priestess, the empress, the emperor,
the hierophant, the lovers, the chariot, strength, the hermit, the
wheel of fortune, justice, the hanged man, death, temperance, the
devil, the tower, the star, the moon, the siin, the last judgment, the
fool, the world—all represented in a suitably symbolic manner.
The lesser arcana consists of four suits as follows : wands or staves,
cups, swords, and pentacles, each having four court cards, king,
queen, knight and page. These suits are reputed to have given rise
to the normal playing-card suits by wands becoming clubs; cups,
hearts; swords, spades; and pentacles, diamonds. Hebrew letters,
signs of the zodiac, and every possible kind of symbolismis attached to
these devices, hence not only are they eminently suitable to fortune­
telling, but the dealers in transcendental magic can read therein the
solution of the world’s mysteries. It has been claimed for the tarot
cards that they constitute the key to the esoteric knowledge of the
Bible, the Kabbalah, the Talmud, the Assyrian, Babylonian and
Egyptian books, and that the only reason for the preservation of
the gipsies is their understanding of these potent pictures. There
may be some practical truth in this, as fortune-telling is notoriously
28
4
White Magic White Magic
a common means of livelihood with the Romanies. According to Sir
James Murray (O.E.D.), the word tarot is derived from the 16th-
century French tarault, or tarau. The early Italian tarocchi is, in the
opinionofEric Partridge, misleading: ashepointsout, SirE. A. Wallis
Budge in his Egyptian Dictionary gives taru, meaning "demons,
devils, enemes." This may have no bearing on the cards, but it
helps to keep controversy alive. Florio’s definition is: “ Tarocchi,
a land of playing cardes called Tarocks or Terestriall triumphs."
§ 5. The gipsies excel also in the practice of chiromancy, or
palmistry. By this method, character, fortune, and future events
are read in the flexion folds of the hand, commencing at the line
across the wrist. It would be no exaggeration to state that every­
body knows the " line of life," and almost as many can distinguish
the “ head line " and the “ heart line," but by the professional, the
most minute lines are taken into consideration together with contours,
shape, and moisture of the skin. Results are frequently startling,
and so far as reading of character is concerned, the method may
well be reliable, but “ fortune " and “ the future " are outside the
rules of reason, and in cases where “ accurate " prognostications are
made by palmists the process of deduction is most probably
clairvoyance.
§ 6. Dowsing- or divining-rods, though perfectly practical in
application, may quite correctlyberegarded as “ magical" appliances
in so far as science cannot adequately explain the process underlying
their use. The diviner, holding a Y-shaped twig of hazel or other
nut-tree by the horns, walks slowly over the land until he comes to
either an underground stream of water, or a deposit of minerals—
when the rod makes a definite movement, as though endowed with
a volition of its own. In “ the good old days," diviners were tried
on a charge of witchcraft, and generally found guilty; to-day they
are employed, often at a handsome rate of remuneration, by land
and mine owners, a really good diviner knowing by these magical
means how much water or mineral is present and at what depth it
exists beneath the surface. This remarkable power may be a form
of clairvoyance, but whatever type of magic it is, the fact remains
that very efficient materialists have failed in their endeavours to
produce a mechanical diviner.
§ 7. The magnificent breakers of the ocean of Science are for ever
booming along, undermining and encroaching upon the shores of the
secret land of the Occult. That which was a dark continent has now
been reduced to an island, but it is necessary to the safety of civiliza­
tion and the sanity of mankind that those relentless waters rush on
till the last wrecking rock of superstition disappears beneath many
a goodly fathom. If there is a worldof spirits, of discamate intelli­
gences good or evil, speaking to us through the mumbling Ups of an
emotionally unsound medium, it were well for us to know about
them.; if certain sensitive persons can delve into a fourth-dimensional
intelligence, and so see and hear with superhuman eyes and ears, it
were well for us to employ those mortals to a utiUtarian end; but
all their claims must bow to the sublime impeccabiUty of the Socratic
285
White Magic White Magic
method. This, the test of applied fact as it might be called, has
resulted in the magnificent achievements of modem science, and if
its application to the realms of magic can reduce the medium's
heaven-sent message to the symbolic expression of undischarged
libido, then the doctor and not the theologian must steer the craft
of our emotional life. On the other hand, the spirit-world, if it
exists, may be thrown open and flooded with the light of reason
by the same method.
§ 8. The mountains of magic are not yet scaled, but the plains
are thoroughly explored. Homoeopathic and contagious magic are
employed ¿1 over the world in folk-medicine, in rain-making, and in
the social life of primitive peoples. In the days before Louis Pasteur's
work, “ a hair of the dog that bit you " was considered a cure for
rabies. The hair, which needed to be consumed by the patient, was
taken from the animal's tail, and as it was never certain that the
" mad " dog was rabid, the remedy was considered a cure because
those unfortunates bitten by a healthy beast, and so treated, naturally
enough never contracted the disease I Such magical remedies are
still in use. We need go no further than Ireland where, according
to E. (E. Somerville and Martin Ross in The Smile and the Tear
(p. 52), “ The mother of a family of young children who were . . .
afflicted [with whooping-cough] was accused of neglecting them.
She replied that she had done all that was possible, and it was no
easy job at all. ' Sure I walked six miles to the town,' she said
indignantly, ' to try could I get the loan of a pair o' ferrets. I had
the town walked before I could meet the lad that had them. I
brought them hither then, and I got a bowleen o' milk, and I put
their noses down in the way they should drink it. What they left
afther them I took it and I give it to the children to drink. It was
a wise woman back in the mountains that said I should do that.
But,' she admitted, ' they hardly got much good out of it yet-----'
A triumphant whoop from one of the sufferers came, as, no doubt,
a hint from the demon in possession, that it had been neither scared
nor disgusted—which seems odd." The idea of possession by demons
as a cause of illness lingered very long in Europe and was applied
particularly to the insane. If the demon could not be “ cast out "
by a practised exorcist (which, for reasons now known to the psycho-
therapeutist, could sometimes be accomplished), then the only
possible method was to torture the fiend out of its host, hence lunatics
were burned on the soles of the feet, beaten, starved, and subjected
to the most horrifying cruelty. Torture was abandoned, but patients
continued to be treated like criminals till in 1794 the Quaker doctor,
William Tuke, brought in Lunacy Reform and founded his ideal
asylum, “ The Retreat," in Yorkshire.
§ 9. Sir James Frazer, in The Golden Bough, a monumental work
dealing with world-wide folk-lore, magic and religion, gives a pro-
digous amount of detail concerning the working of magic among all
peoples. “ In Russia . . . three men used to climb up the fir-trees
in an old sacred grove. One of them drummed with a hammer on
a kettle or small cask to imitate thunder; the second knocked two
286
White Magic White Magic
fire-brands together and made the sparks fly, to imitate lightning ;
while the third, who was called ' the rain-maker/ had a bunch of
twigs with which he sprinkled water on all sides. To put an end
to drought and bring down rain, women and girls of the village of
Ploska are wont to go naked by night to the boundaries of the
village, and there pour water on the ground ” (p. 63, abridged edition).
§ 10. In the foregoing examples, magic to induce rain is performed
by the ordinary inhabitants of the villages, but many primitive
peoples have in their midst a special rain-maker who is held actually
responsible for the annual rainfall. These practitioners, generally
very shrewd men, are “ weather-wise ” in the ordinary sense, and
perform their magical ceremonies just before the rain is about to
descend. This does not constitute deliberate cheating : the rain­
makers believe that without their ceremony the rain will not fall.
In the event of very prolonged drought, they conclude that the
people have offended the gods, hence the whole community is drawn
into the ceremonial, loud and frenzied incantations rising for days
on end. Under these circumstances primitive religion is brought
to the aid of homoeopathic magic, for between incantation and prayer
there is essentially no difference.
§ 11. In Northern Australia the magician goes secretly to a pool
and sings over it a plaintive magic song. After this he solemnly raises
some of the water in his hands and tosses it about in all directions,
then runs back to camp expecting the rain to give chase.
§ 12. In Central Australia during a drought the people wail loudly
to the Mura-Muras, that is, ancestral spirits, complaining of the
parched state of the land and their own impoverished condition,
after which the rain-making ceremony is performed. “ A hole is
dug about twelve feet long and eight or ten broad, and over this hole
a conical hut of logs and branches is made. Two wizards supposed
to have received a special inspiration from the Mura-Muras, are bled
by an old and influential man with a sharp flint'; and the blood,
drawn from their arms below the elbow, is made to flow on the other
men of the tribe, who sit huddled together in the hut. At the same
time the two bleeding men throw handfuls of down about, some of
which adheres to the blood-stained bodies of their comrades, whilst
the rest floats in the air. The blood is thought to represent the rain,
and thè down, the clouds. During the ceremony two large stones
are placed in the middle of the hut ; they stand for gathering clouds
and presage rain. Then the wizards who were bled carry away the
stones for about ten or fifteen miles, and place them as high as they
can in the tallest tree. Meanwhile the other men gather gypsum,
pound it fine, and throw it into a water-hole. This the Mura-Muras
see, and at once cause clouds to appear in the sky. Lastly, the men,
young and old, surround the hut, and, stooping down, butt at it
with their heads, like so many rams. Thus they force their way
through it and reappear on the other side, repeating the process
till the hut is wrecked. In doing this they are forbidden to use their
hands or arms; but when the heavy logs alone remain they are
allowed to pull them out with their hands. The piercing of the hut
287
White Magic White Magic
with the heads symbolizes the piercing of the clouds; the fall of
the hut, the fall of the rain. Obviously, too, the act of placing high
up in trees the two stones which stand for clouds, is a way of making
the real douds to mount up in the sky ” (Frazer, op. cit., p. 85),
After such strenuous and sanguinary, not to say painful endeavour,
it is to be hoped that the Mura-Muras are merdful, sending the
desired downpour.
§ 13. Even in the less superstitious communities, pregnancy is
regarded as a period when magic must be resorted to. Women in
this condition are warned never to tie knots in their clothing lest it
provoke a difficult labour, while the expedient of squeezing through
narrow openings, dimbing through hoops and the like is considered
invaluable to ensure easy parturition. The Basque people of the
Pyrenees still perform the Couvade. The mother rises from her bed
and busies herself with normal household duties, whilst the father
of the new-born child takes to his bed, pretends to be very poorly
and receivesvisits fromneighbours. This plan deceivesthe malignant
demons who always hover in the air on such occasions, intent on
working harm to the exhausted woman, and the delicate new life,
Under couvade conditions, these spirits would find themselves
confronted by a vigorous healthy man who would certainly make
very short work of them. Professor B. Malinowski, in his work on
the Trobriand Islanders, gives magical formulas for charming the
special dress worn by the women during pregnancy. The islanders
spread a mat upon the ground, place a garment upon it, then strew
with pieces of white leaves. After this, those present who know
the magic kneel round and, pressing their faces close into the robe,
repeat the words that call upon a certain white bird to alight on the
village water-hole. They then declare that this bird is making
beautiful every portion of the robe, and, having named each part in
meticulous detail, they proceed to a similar enumeration of the
parts of the wearer’s body, finishing the spell with the words, “ No
more is it her head, her head is like the pallor before dawn ; no more
is it her face, her face is like the white sprout of a young leaf of the
areca plant. . . . ” The purpose of the spell is to bring great physical
beauty to the expectant mother ; the bird invoked is of most exquisite
form and dazzling white plumage. Its association with the water-
hole at which the woman bathes is for the purpose of whitening her
skin. Magic among primitives is no plaything, and Trobriand
women when enceinte actually do “ grow pallid like the white sky
before dawn, and like the young sprouts of areca.”
§ 14. Magic lies closer to the soul of the savage than does objective
reality. The Trobrianders make long ceremonial voyages annually
in canoes that are actually unstable and unseaworthy inasmuch
that they cannot sail dose to the wind, and this defect in seas studded
with coral-reefs and sand-banks makes for very real dangers. The
natives, however, although fully aware of this, express much more
terror of flying-witches, who attack the little vessels when far out
at sea. The presence of these malignant beings may always be
seen by the sparks which they strike on the masthead. Europeans
288
White Stone Witchcraft
may term such lights St. Elmo's fire, declare it harmless, and ignore
it, but the Trobriand sailor knows better, and as soon as it appears
he sets to work with his counter-magic at which he labours to save
his life.
5 15. The practice of magic is the essence of occultism, for by it,
man takes, or attempts to take control of natural phenomena, and
so shape his destiny. According to Sir James Frazer, magic is the
high road that leads to religion; nevertheless, magic is practised
almost as much in Christian countries as in savage society, though in
the former it is, of course, not officially recognized by either Church
or State. However, " threatening the God ” in times of personal
trouble, and so attempting to bully Him into granting surcease, is
quite common in Italy, and it is not unknown for village com­
munities to “ punish the saints ” in times of drought by covering
with sackcloth the effiges in the churches. Then and now, there and
here, space and time contract to a pin-point, and all the world is one
beneath the potent spells of magic. ^
Book recommended:
T h o r n d i k e , L., History of Magic (New York, 1929).
[An arresting novel dealing with the Tarots is : The Greater Trumps, by
C. W. S. Williams (Gollancz, 1932).]
White Stone, the. See Alchemy, Wild Women. See Fairies, § 13.
§§ 20, 37, 44, 59-60.
IWilkes, John. See Devil-wor-
Wierus. See Weyer, D r. John. ship, §§ 7-8.
WlLBERFORCE, BISHOP SAMUEL. WILLIAMS, CHARLES. See English
See Ghosts, § 1. Literature and the Occult, § 19.
Wilde. See English Literature Will-o’-the-Wisp. See Fairies,
and the Occult, § 18 (end). § 18.
Wilde, Hannah. See Spiritual- Wisdom, Stone of. See Alchemy,
ism, Part III, § 37. § 19.
WITCHCRAFT
§ I. “ If she chanced to stumble [the villagers] always found
sticks or straws that lay in the figure of a cross before her. If she
made any mistake at church, and cried amen in a wrong place, they
never failed to conclude that she was saying her prayers backwards.
There was not a maid in the parish that would take a pin of her,
though she should offer a bag of money with it. She goes by the
name of Moll White, and has made the countiy ring with several
imaginary exploits which are palmed upon her. If the dairymaid
does not make her butter to come so soon as she would have it,
Moll White is at the bottom of the chum. If a horse sweats in the
stable, Moll White has been upon his back. If a hare makes an
unexpected escape from the hounds, the huntsman curses Moll White.
289
Witchcraft Witchcraft
4Nay/ says Sir Roger, *I have known the master of the pack, upon
such an occasion, send one of his servants to see if Moll White had
been out that morning ' ” (Addison’s Essays). This is the typical
witch of later literature—simply a harmless old crone loved by none
save her favourite cat ; a burden on the parish, and a source of
annoyance to her neighbours. It was from about 1450 till about
1750 that the witch cult was a real menace to civilization. Holland
was, in 1610, the first country to abolish legal witch-persecutions ;
in 1632 Geneva followed suit ; in 1649 Sweden took their good
example. It was not until 1682 that England showed mercy;
Scotland in 1697 ; France 1726. Germany, more brutal even than
France, continued the practice twenty-three years longer. Spain
always excelled in barbarous cruelty and persecuted witches till
1781. Fear of the witch persists, however, in all countries, and as
late as 1926, at Tipton in Staffordshire, two men were summoned for
threatening an alleged witch, and several neighbours gave evidence
against her ! In the same year in France, Abbé Desnoyers was
accused of being an incarnation of Satan, and flogged for bewitching
Madame Mesmin and others.
§ 2. Witches actually functioned long before 1450 (the Witch of
Endor will suffice as evidence of this) ; but prior to this date the
Church denied the existence of witches, and punished all who believed
in, and consulted them for good or ill. Later, in the battle against
heretics, who naturally enough held their meetings in secret, the
Church also attacked the Witches’ Sabbat, and so induced that
epidemic of superstitious terror, as a result of which it is estimated
that the population of Spain was reduced from 20 millions to
6 millions. Torquemada is said to have burned 10,220, and sent
97,371 persons to the galleys in the course of eighteen years.
§ 3. Before the epidemic, female dabblers in the black art were
known as prophetesses, seers or sibyls ; their existence was not
considered inimical to Church or State, and they were left in peace.
The Witch of Endor herself does not seem to have been greatly
troubled by the Law ; and though her practice was illegal, she must
have been pretty generally winked at, seeing that Saul visited her :
just as to-day, though fortune-telling is considered an offence, the
professional practitioners, by the simple expedient of terming them­
selves character-readers, remain within the law. The Witch of
Endor, however, is really miscalled. She was more of a necromancer,
or spirit-medium, than a witch in the medieval sense. As the
frontispiece to Sadducismus Triumphatus, published in 1681, W.
Faithome has engraved the scene of Samuel appearing to Saul and
depicted the witch’s apartment as apparently built and furnished in
late 17th-century Europe.
§ 4. Miss M. A. Murray in two works, The W itch-Cult in Western
Europe and The God o f the Witches, ingeniously maintains the thesis
that witchcraft was the survival of the Dianic cult which had been
the pre-Christian religion of the area. She has gathered much data,
and many facts are in her favour, but the theory becomes extravagant
and insupportable when she attempts to align the execution of the
290
Witchcraft Witchcraft
witches with the sacrifice of the god in early fecundity cults. Agreeing
that " Frazer has pointed out that the human victim whether the
god himself or his human substitute did not content himself by
merely not attempting to escape his destiny, but in many cases
actually rushed on his fate, and died by his own hand or by voluntary
submission to the sacrificer ” (Witch-Cult in Western Europe, p. 160),
we still cannot admit that Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais made
voluntary sacrifices of themselves in accordance with the long-
forgotten rites of a proto-historic religious cult; or, despite the fact
that “ two centuries later Major Weir offered himself up, and was
executed as a witch at Edinburgh, refusing to the end all attempts
to convert him to the Christian point of view ” (op. cit., p. 161),
perceive that it proves anything other than the mental derangement
of the protagonist. That there is a great deal of the ritual of pre-
Christian religious cults contained in the practice of witchcraft is
undeniable; yet it seems more reasonable to suppose that the
witches themselves were not cognizant of this, but were, through
hysteria, expressing the inversion of Christianity. Mr. Montague
Summers is much nearer the mark when he declares witchcraft to be
a form of Devil-worship. The conversion of Europe to Christianity
had not been a simple matter of switching over, with all the inhabi­
tants experiencing simultaneously a change of thought. First the
petty kings had been won to the new doctrine : their peers may have
followed suit, but the people were at first quite unconcerned. How­
ever, as the gospel penetrated the population, the priests declared
the old gods to be part of the Principle of Evil, hence they were
equated to the Christian Principle of Evil—Satan. As a result of
this, we find that the Devil is represented in many forms, and Diana
is no doubt among them. The austere nature of the new faith
endeared it more to those ascetically inclined than to the peasant
converts. Too many acts that had hitherto seemed natural and
harmless were now pronounced to be sinful; and such sinful acts,
repressed, were dramatized in hysteria. Emotionally unstable
members of the community found in Satan an indulgent deity.
The witches were mental invalids, expressing pubertal and climacteric
stresses in the superstitious idiom of the time; not folk-lorists, nor
antiquarians, attempting to keep the old cults alive for the informa­
tion of posterity.
§ 5. Hysterics are often unable to distinguish clearly between the
subjective experience of dream-life and the objective experience of
waking-life ; and as the dream of flying, or gliding in long leaps oyer
the ground is by no means uncommon, it is not difficult to perceive
the origin of the witches' claims to be able to fly through the air on
a broomstick. They induced the somnambulistic state by rubbing
the body all over with an intoxicating ointment, and by chanting
incantations. In the same way the modem witch-doctors among
primitive people work themselves up into the frenzies necessary to
the performance of their miracles.
§ 6. In 1484 the famous Bull of Innocent VIII was issued. This
document, stigmatized as “ the product of hell," legalized the anti-
291
Witchcraft
Witchcraft
witch inquisition, and led to the slaughter of (it is estimated)
millionpeople, for the most part old women and young girls. This
means, if Torquemada's record is taken as an average for the whole
of the area, and the whole of the time period covered by the Bull,
that a further 80 million, which is a conservative estimate, suffered
deportation. The fecundity bee buzzing in Miss Murray's bonnet
deafens her to the loud shouting fact of the Bull's purpose, and leads
her to defend the document as “ one of many ordinances against
the practice of an earlier cult. . . . It is exactly the pronouncement
which one would expect from a Christian against a heathen form of
religion in which the worship of a god of fertility was the central
idea " (op. d t., p. 24). Actually one would not expect the issue of
such a document from a Christian against anything; and a few
years later, the publication of Sprenger's Malleus Maleficarum, in
which inquisitional rules were laid down, making it quite impossible
for any accused person to escape slaughter, seems to confirm the
hellish origin of Pope Innocent's Bull.
§ 7. The charge brought against the unfortunate witch was on
three heads, involving her relationship to the public, to the Devil,
and to God. The second and third points, namely, pact with the
Devil and heresy, were the Church's main interests in the witch
trials. To stir the public and gain its support, they stressed the
first point, maleficium, that is, harmful magic directed against man's
person and property. The maleficium most greatly feared was the
casting of a spell that would result in impotence or sterility; and
this dread the Church was not slow to seize upon. “ In the cele­
brated Bull on Witchcraft the subject of Maleficium is treated under
seven headings, of which six are concerned directly with the sexual
functions and one with the transformation into animals. The well-
known MaUeus Maleficarum devotes four chapters to a detailed
consideration of the question of the means whereby this impotence
is brought about. . . . Through it the love between a given man
and woman could be annihilated, barrenness of women and sterility
of men induced, the intra-uterine embryo destroyed and miscarriages
effected " (Dr. Ernest Jones, On Nightmare, p. 193).
§ 8. The accusation having been made by a malicious or timid
neighbour, and the suspect apprehended, steps were then taken to
prove the witch's guilt. First among incriminating signs was the
Devil's mark. It was considered that when the miscreant entered
into her pact with the Evil One, he branded her in some way, often
by a miniature replica of his hoof; and that this macula would be
devoid of natural sensitiveness, and no blood would flow if a pointed
instrument was inserted into it. The inquisitors made most diligent
search and seldom failed to find what they sought, usually in a most
intimate portion of the anatomy. The mark found, the pricking
process was carried out. A document of French origin, dated
10 March 1611, is signed by two surgeons and two physicians. It
runs: “ We, the undersigned doctors and surgeons, in obedience to
the directions given . . . have visited [the accused] upon whose
body we observed three little marks, not very different in colour
292
W it c h c r a ft W itc h c r a ft
from the natural skin. The first . . . we pierced . . . with a needle
to the depth of two fingers' breadth— [the accused] felt no pain, nor
did any blood or other humour exude from the incision. [Into] the
second . . . we drove the needle for three fingers' breadth, leaving
it fixed in this spot for some time . . . and yet all the while the
[accused] felt no pain, nor was there any effluxion of blood or other
humour of any kind. . . . In our judgment such callous marks
cannot be due to any ancient affection of the skin. , . .” The
opinion of these four learned medical men holds good to-day. This
type of anaesthesia is not due to “ ancient affections of the skin "
but to hysteria. In major cases, such anaesthesia and apparent
bloodlessness extends over large areas, and has even been known to
involve one-half of the entire body.1
§ 9. Other than the Devil's mark was the damning “ little Teat or
Pap " wherefrom the witch gave suck, and so nourished her familiar.
Many records state that the accused possessed these. Elizabeth
Wright from a village near Burton-on-Trent, tried in 1597, was
subjected to the search. “ The old woman they stript, and found
behind her right sholder a thing much like the vdder of an ewe
that giueth sucke with two teates. . . ." Elizabeth Sawyer, the
witch of Edmonton, was found to possess “ a thing like a Teate the
bignesse of the little finger . . . and seemed as though one had
suckt it." Mary Read, the witch of Kent, had a “ visible Teat under
her Tongue and did shew it to many." Polymastia (i.e., the presence
of more than two breasts) and polythelia (i.e., supernumerary
nipples) are far from uncommon deformities, but no doubt the
majority of the incriminating tumours revealed in the witch trials
may be referred to pathological histology.
§ 10. Witches, when taken, often voluntarily confessed guilt on
every count. They admitted their responsibility for the death of
neighbours by casting spells; of having carnal relations with the
Devil; and of denying Christ, spitting upon the cross, flying through
the air, and changing into animal shape. This means that, like all
hysterics, they were megalomaniacal, and subject to delusions.
When the accused refused to confess, she was tortured, and this had
the desired effect because death was preferable. The witch was
customarily strangled at the stake and the corpse burned, though
there are a few records of the judge having pronounced, " to be
burned quick." According to Miss Murray the cremation was
insisted upon to provide sacred ash for the devotees of Diana to
sprinkle over their fields in the ritual of the fecundity-cult. This is
mere extravaganza, as the authoress, an anthropologist, must know
that part of the witch's crimes was the ability to metamorphose
into an animal shape, i.e., lycanthropy or werewolfism; and she
must also know that the bodies of reputed werewolves were burned
to prevent their rising as vampires, which, according to the ignorant,
they invariably did, if buried in either consecrated or unconsecrated
ground.
§ i i . "Swimming a witch" was considered a good rough-and-
1 See Psycho-Thetapy and Psychic Phenomena.
293
W itch cr a ft W itc h c r a ft
ready method of testing an accused person. The prisoner was
stripped naked, and her left thumb tied to her right big toe; the
right thumb was then similarly fastened to her left big toe, so that
her arms and legs made the sign of the cross before her. She was
then taken and carefully lowered on to the surface of a pond or
stream. If she floated on her back safely to dry land, the Devil
supported her in the water and her pact was indicated ; if she sank,
then the inquisitors made an attempt to haul her out before she
was drowned. Sometimes these Christian endeavours at rescue
were unsuccessful; often, though saved from the water, the exoner­
ated woman died in consequence of shock and exposure.
§ 12. If the Roman Catholic Church created the witchcraft
epidemic, the Nonconformists (with notable exceptions) certainly
carried it on in a manner not unworthy of practised inquisitors.
To deal with the exception first: in Pennsylvania, in 1684, an old
hag pleaded guilty before William Penn, the Quaker founder of the
colony, who remarked that he saw no reason why anyone feeling so
disposed should not fly through the air on a broomstick, and dismissed
the case. In Puritan England affairs were very different. The
rebel government appointed a " witch-finder general,” one Matthew
Hopkins, who qualified for the office by bringing to book a whole
coven of witches that met near his house in Manningtree, Essex,
eveiy sixth Friday night. His methods were as cruel as any that
had been practised previously: he bound his victims cross-legged
upon a stool, prevented them from sleeping and had them watched
continuously. If that treatment did not wring a confession of guilt
from them, he had them walked up and down, up and down, bare­
foot, on ground sharp with flints, till the flesh fell from their feet
—and the confession from their lips. He kept the executioners
busy, filled the jails all over East Anglia, and netted a very nice
fortune in fees from local authorities. Among his victims was John
Lawes, Vicar of Brandeston, who had occupied the living for almost
half a century. Hopkins “ smelt out ” so many witches that folk
began to ask if he were not himself in league with the Devil, getting
his information direct from the Evil One's register. To this he
replied in a pamphlet, The Discovery of Witches, consisting of a series
of questions and answers, of which “ Querie.i. That he must needs
be the greatest Witch, Sorcerer, and Wizzard himselfe, else hee could
not doe it ” receives the “ Answer. If Satans Kingdome be divided
against itselfe, how shall it stand ? ” Legend has it that Master
Matthew Hopkins was at last himself put to the water ordeal and
drowned; but the fact is that he retired when he saw his popularity
on the wane, and died in his bed at Manningtree.
§ 13. Upon her initiation, the witch received from the Devil,
besides his mark and the “ little Teat or Pap,” a “ familiar ” or
” imp,” which she was expected to care for and nourish. These
familiars often took the shape of cats or hares (both referred to
under the general term " puss ”), but sometimes, apparently, they
were specially created, their description being that of a beast of
mixed dog, rat and reptile phylogeny. (Such creatures are common
294
W itc h c r a ft W itch cr a ft
enough to-day, and may often be seen carried by ladies in Kensing­
ton.) The familiar served the witch in various capacities, and also
changed shape with her. Witches thus metamorphosed were accused
of entering the shed and sucking milk from the cow's udders. After
the familiar had rendered a service to its mistress it was customarily
allowed a little blood, the witch cutting herself and permitting the
imp to suck the wound—a practice reminding one so forcibly of
vampirism, which is itself not far removed from the alp superstition
(the alp being a milk-sucking night fiend, allied to incubus and
succubus), that hysterical phantasy is not difficult to detect. The
familiars were generally given rather charming names, such as
Grimalkin, Vinegar Tom, and Greedigut.
§ 14. The witches' meetings were called Sabbats or Sabbaths.
Some authorities maintain that the word is not in any way connected
with the seventh day or the number seven, but is derived from the
Old French s'esbattre (to frolic). These meetings were most certainly
jolly affairs, seeming to consist mostly of revels, eating and drinking,
dancing, and licentiousness. Bacchus and Priapus were no doubt
friends of Diana. There is much controversy concerning the means
of locomotion employed by the witches in journeying to the Sabbat,
which was obviously held at a distance from the village ; and equally
obviously those present did not ride through the air on a broomstick.
Such flights were of the fancy only ; nevertheless, witches generally
claimed to have used that esoteric means of transport when attending
their functions. Modem analysis of statements made during the
trials reveals that many went on foot, but were at the time in a state
of nervous stress bordering on somnambulism, hence the delusion
of flying. Others were “ given a lift" in the conveyance used by
the more opulent and influential members of the coven. Such words
as " the Devil took me up and conveyed me thither in his carriage,"
mean nothing more, for the “ Devil" was the title bestowed upon
the chief officer of the district.1 Besides eating and drinking and
revelling, the Black Mass was often celebrated at the witches'
gatherings, and that fact alone rather defeats Miss Murray's thesis,
so she leaps to the conclusion that the general rules for performing
mass existed long previous to Christianity. That indeed is going too
far, and Montague Summers rightly becomes enraged.
§ 15. One of the most striking witch-trials that took place in
England was that held, in the year 1612, at Pendle in Lancashire.
A crone called Elizabeth Southemes or Demdike, blind, 80 years of
age, mother and grandmother of many witches, was at bitter enmity
with Anne Whittle or Chattox, “ a very old, withered, spent, and
decrepit creature, her sight almost gone ; a dangerous witch of very
long continuance ; always opposite to old Demdike ; for whom the
one favoured the other hated deadly; and how they curse and
accuse one another in their examinations may appear. . . . Her
lips ever chattering and walking; but no man knew what. She
livedin the forest of Pendle amongst the wicked company of dangerous
witches." It seems these two families struggled for supremacy, and
1 See Devil-worship, § 5.
295
W itch cr a ft W itc h c r a ft
spared each other not a jot. Dame Demdike’s daughter lost her
“ coif and band”— Dame Chattox's daughter found it; then
followed accusations of theft and not a little fighting, obviously
witch versus witch, finding more satisfaction in fisticuffs than sorcery.
Rob Nutter, the son of the lord of the manor, attempted to intervene,
threatened to evict old Dame Chattox, and so earned her displeasure.
He was dead within three months—the victim of her maleficium.
Dame Chattox was quite an adept at causing folk to “ pine and
dwindle ” by sticking rusty pins into clay images of them, and
Dame Demdike was no less skilful. At last, “ Master Roger Nowell,
an active and austere magistrate,” raided Pendle Forest and put
Demdike and three others in Lancaster Castle.
§ 16. A general meeting of witches was convened by Demdike's
daughter, and they ardently discussed the release of the old lady,
the murder of the governor, and the blowing up of the castle. Grief
did not inhibit their appetite, for “ The persons aforesaid had to
their dinner Beefe, Bacon, and roasted Mutton : which Mutton (as
this Examinate's said brother said) was of a Wether of Christopher
Swyers of Barley: which Wether . . . [was] in this Examinate's
sight killed and eaten.” In passing, it is important to note that
bulimia (i.e., excessive appetite) is a symptom of hysteria. Whatever
plans were made at this meeting were never put into execution, for
the whole coven was arrested and lodged with Dame Demdike in
the castle they had lusted to destroy. The old dame died in prison
before her trial, but not before she had confessed to being a witch
and having a familiar “ which appeared unto her in the likeness of a
brown dog, forcing himself to her knee, to get blood under her left
arm.” Chattox, though a trifle superior in years to Demdike,
survived the prison existence and ” confessed ” ; five other persons,
including a little girl of nine (who gave evidence against her own
own mother), did likewise. But, with or without confession, or even
protesting their innocence, the rival factions of the Pendle coven were
found guilty and condemned. Ten went to the gallows, among the
number a lady of good estate, and two children. This occurred
during the reign of " the British Solomon ”—James I, who did much
to popularize the sport of witch-baiting in this country ; neverthe­
less, the fall of the Stuart Dynastybrought noreforms inthis direction,
and inquisitorial persecutions further befouled the ugly passage of
the Puritan rebels.
§ 17. Oliver Cromwell, not many years later, was himself supposed
to have entered into league with the Devil, the contract standing
good for seven years. The fact that a heavy storm raged on
3 September 1658, when Cromwell lay dying, adds weight to the
legend that Satan had come to carry off his own.
§ 18. The most famous witchcraft trial to be found in Scottish
annals is that of Thomas Weir and his sister. Weir was created
Major of the “ Guards of the City of Edinborough ” in the year
1650, and as Major Weir he is best known. He was a lay preacher
of extraordinary powers, and as it was understood that he prayed
only in the houses of “ saints,” very many folk tried to secure his
296
W itch cr a ft W itch cr a ft
attendance at their house-conventicles. “ He had indeed a wonderful
fluency in extemporary prayer, and what through Enthusiastical
phrases, and what through Extasies, and raptures, into which he
would appear transported, he made the amazed people presume he
was acted by the Spirit of God.” He is said to have always dressed
in a long dark cloak and to have carried a staff of curiously carven
form. " He was a tall . . . man, and ordinarily looked down to
the ground; a grim countenance, and a big nose.” He never
married, but resided with his sister, Jean Weir, in a high house
with quaint projecting angles, on Bow-head, Edinburgh, in which
city he was perhaps the most respected inhabitant for many years.
At the age of 70, without any evident signs of mental degeneration,
he suddenly began to accuse himself of many crimes, the very mention
of which was horrifying to the pious people among whom he lived.
News of his condition was carried to Sir Andrew Ramsay, Lord
Abbotshall, then Provost of Edinburgh, who very wisely concluded
that Major Weir was out of his mind, and so sent doctors to visit
him ; but they returned with the report that the Major was in perfect
health, and his torment due to nothing but awakened conscience.
Something had to be done, and if medical men were not discreet
enough to enable the Provost to avoid scandal, then there was nothing
for it but to place the Major and his sister under arrest. “ When
they were seized, she desired the guards to keep him from laying
hold on a certain staff, which she said, if he chanced to get it into
his hands he would certainly drive them all out of doors, notwith­
standing all the resistance they could make.” This poor insane
creature, Jean Weir, was evidently in mortal terror of her brother's
staff of blackthorn, for she declared it to have magical properties,
and to be particularly necessary to him when he prayed so fervently.
She persistently cried that if Major Weir once handled the staff, all
his demoniac powers would return to him. In prison she confessed
that she and he had entered into a pact with the Devil; that her
brother received the gift of prayer and of prophecy " and made [the
people] believe that, like Moses, he had been with God in the Mount.”
But as for herself—the only benefit she had from the contract was a
constant supply of yam which was always ready upon her spindle.
The Major resolutely refusedeither to pray or to be prayed over while
he lay in prison, and at his trial, pleaded guilty when charged, on
the sole evidence of his own confession, with witchcraft, incest, and
numerous other " deadly sins.” Witnesses could say little more
against him than that he was never observed to kneel at prayer,
and that he was always accompanied in this exercise by his staff.
He and this magical wand were burned together. " Whatever
incantation was in [the staff] the persons present own that it gave
rare turnings, and was long a-buming, as also himself.” Jean Weir
was charged with witchcraft and incest, found guilty on her own
confession and hanged in the grassmarket of Edinburgh. It is said
that she addressed the populace thus: “ I see a great crowd of
People come hither to-day to behold a poor old miserable creature's
death, but I trow there be few among you who are weeping and
s.o. 297 u
W itch cra ft W itch cra ft
mourning for the broken Covenant/' After which, without fear or
reluctance, she threw herself from the ladder. For over a hundred
years Major Weir's house remained uninhabited and was one of the
sights of Edinburgh. People declared that at night sounds of dancing
and devilish mirth, mixed with the whirr of a spinning-wheel, issued
from the building, and Thomas and Jean Weir were, on more than
one occasion, seen riding in a coach and six with the Devil on the box.
§ 19. These British witch-trials are typical of what was taking
place all over Christendom. Ignorance and superstition existed in
the same measure at home as abroad, but in the exercise of cruelty
Britain was less guilty in so far as the Law forbade the use of instru­
ments of torture such as the rack, the thumb-screw and the Spanish-
boots ; also, there were perhaps fewer trials and a bigger percentage
of acquittals. Even during the Lancashire witch-trial (Demdike and
Chattox), another case was brought up and dismissed, because the
evidence of the accuser, Grace Sowerbutts, savoured too strongly of
malice. This is instructive, for it indicates an attempt at calm
judgment and unprejudiced justice. The English courts did not
condemn as a result of blind panic.
§ 20. On the American Continent the benign Quaker government
was confined to Pennsylvania, and beyond the boundaries of this
area witch-persecutions flourished. Those eminent Puritan divines,
Increase Mather and Cotton Mather, father and son, fanned the
flames in New England, and displayed no less subtlety than the
inquisitors, and even more hypocritical righteousness than Master
Matthew Hopkins.
§ 21. The panic at Salem commenced in the household of the
Rev. Samuel Parris. There was a family of girls ranging in age
from 9 to 18 years, and during the long winter evenings they whiled
away the time listening to no doubt very creepy stories told to them
by a West Indian slave-woman named Tituba. Before long an
attack of hysteria, with its typical symptoms was induced in three
of the younger children : “ They would put themselves in odd
postures, and utter loud outcries and ridiculous, incoherent and
unintelligible expressions." Dr. Griggs gravely shook his head over
them. Realizing his impotence in the case, he declared that their
condition was due to bewitchment. The dread word spoken, and
the epidemic raged like a holocaust. Accusations like acrid smoke
blackened the outlook and blinded all. Needless to say, the affronted
father, Samuel Parris, saw witches at every street comer, and not a
clergyman in the whole of New England but made a veritable
Matthew Hopkins of himself. Cotton Mather must have required
all the geese in the colony to supply quills for his pens used in making
long and detailed reports of each case; in fact, he wrote a whole
book on the subject entitled The Wonders of the Invisible World.
The Parris children, providentially saved from death by maleficium
of Tituba (who, being shrewder than her judges, escaped the gallows)
and others (who did not), became mediumistic, and were used as
psychic mariners' compasses as it were. Brought into the presence
of a hitherto unsuspected and respectable person, they " cried out *'
W itc h c r a ft W itch cr a ft
if he or she were in reality a witch. Thus the very excellent divines
continued their work in the name of God till the prisons were over­
crowded, and special courts of Oyer and Terminer were held through­
out New England. At last the children “ cried out ” in the presence
of Mrs. Hale, wife of the Rev. John Hale, Minister* of Beverly, and
so overstepped the mark. Mrs. Hale was too universally loved and
respected for public opinion to tolerate such an accusation being
brought against her. The entire community experienced a volte face
and in defence of Mrs. Hale declared the children perjurers and liars.
At this juncture Sir William Phips, Governor of the colony, took
action. He dissolved the special courts, forbade witch-trials and
released the prisoners, much to the horror of Cotton Mather and
Co.
§ 22. As already stated, prior to the universal legalization of
witch persecutions, the beldams had been regarded more as friends
than foes of the populace. After the recession of the epidemic they
were again elevated— or reduced—to that status, and there are to
be found even to-day in the villages, wise old women who eke out a
meagre existence with simples and recipes, which they supply for a
few coppers, together with sage advice, to all who seek.
§ 23. Among primitive peoples, witchcraft is rife and the witch­
doctor is the most important member of the community. In
Melanesia, if a man falls from a tree the mishap is ascribed not to a
broken branch, or an ill-judged movement, but to the malign magic
of some evilly disposed neighbour. All sickness is the result of
spells. The witch-doctor works himself up into a frenzy, thoroughly
pummels the sufferer, chases the “ disease ” into a convenient spot
on the body and gives the place a good hard bite. He then spits
the blood out and searches among it for a little splinter of bone,
which is sure to be there for he has previously secreted it in his
mouth. This he holds up in triumph—he has conquered the disease ;
so the patient, satisfied, soon gets well. A cure is all that anyone,
in any community, asks from a doctor. Europeans are not always
so fortunate as savages in this respect. The witch-doctor system
may be subject to many abuses, but on the whole the practitioners
are honest men, who genuinely believe in their own occult powers,
and the Christian missionaries should be among the last rather than
the first to condemn them as frauds and charlatans, considering that
Cotton Mather, the Christian minister, died as recently as 1728.
§ 24. Montague Summers sketches the European witch as “ an
evil liver ; a social pest and parasite ; the devotee of a loathly and
obscene creed ; an adept at poisoning, blackmail, and other creeping
crimes; a member of a powerful secret organization inimical to
Church and State ; a blasphemer in word and deed; swaying the
villagers by terror and superstition ; a charlatan and a quack some­
times ; a bawd ; an abortionist; the dark counsellor of lewd court
ladies and adulterous gallants; a minister to vice and inconceivable
corruption ; battening upon the filth and foulest passions of the
age/' If he added to this, “ because she was driven into a state of
catatonic dementia by fanatical, envenomed clergy, who were them-
299
W itch cr a ft in In d ia Y oga
selves tottering hysterically under the religious discipline prevailing
at the time," he would have given a very complete and praiseworthy
description.
J- F.
Books recommended:
Ewbn, C. H. L'E., Witch Hunting, and Witch Trials (Kegan Paul, 1929).
Givrey, Grillot de, Witchcraft, Magic and Alchemy, translated by J.
Courtenay Locke (Harrap, 1931).
W itch cr a ft in I n d ia . SeeIndian
Occultism, §§ 8-13.
Witch Doctor. See History of
Occult Ideas, §§ 95-7; and
Witchcraft, §§ 5, 23.
W itch es’ C odex, t h e . This is
Malleus Maleficarum (q.v.).
Witches’ Ointment. See Were­
wolf, § 2 ; and Witchcraft, § 5.
“ Witch of Edmonton, the.”
See English Literature and the
Occult, § 13.
W o m an d rake. See Mandrake,
§ 10.
W ord sw orth . See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 9.
Work the T wig. To use divin­
ing-rods. [Cf. the slang expres­
sion, “ I've twigged it,” sud­
denly become aware.]
Wu. See Chinese Occultism, § 17.
Wu T ‘a i S h a n . Buddhist sacred
mountain. Headquarters of
Mongol Lamaism (q.v.).
Wu T a o T zu . See Chinese Oc­
cultism, § 11.
Wu T su n g . See Buddhist Occult­
ism, § 8.
X
X en o glo ssis. Glossolalia (q.v.).
X y l o m a n c y . Divinationby means
of dry sticks.
Y
Y ajur-V eda. See Indian Occult­
ism, §§ 2, 4.
Y aksh a . See Indian Occultism,
§ 13-
Y a m a . See Buddhist Occultism,
§ 9 ; and Indian Occultism, § 4.
Y a m a . See Eight Stages of Yoga.
Y a m a n t a k a . See Buddhist Oc­
cultism, § 9.
Y a n g and Y in . See Chinese Oc­
cultism, § 1.
Y a o . See Chinese Occultism, § 2.
Y eats, W. B. See English Litera­
ture and the Occult, § 15, end.
Y h w h . See Moslem Occultism,
§ 20.
Y o g a ; the Y o g is. See History
of Occult Ideas, §§ 47-50 ; and
Indian Occultism, § 14.
Y oga, E ig h t S tages o f. See
Eight . . ,
300
Yoo V id y a
Yog Vidya. A nother
Yoga.
Yuge-no-D oyko. See
Occultism, § 13.
Zarah. See Moslem
§ 9-
ZUGUN
nam e for Zodiac, invention of the. See
History of Occult Ideas, § 42.
Buddhist Zodiac, Signs of thb. See Astro­
logy, § 4.
Zohar. See Literature of Occult­
ism, § 2.
Occultism, Zugun, Eleonore. See Spiritual­
ism, Part II, § 52.
WORKS BY THE GENERAL EDITOR
E ig h t e e n t h -C e n t u r y E n g l is h R o m a n t ic P o e t r y . C ham ­
pion, P a r is ; 30 francs.
T h e F r e n c h R o m a n t ic s ’ K n o w l e d g e o f E n g l is h L it e r a ­
t u r e . C h a m p io n ; 48 francs.
A Cr it ic a l M e d l e y : Studies in English, French and Com­
parative Literature. The Obelisk Press, 338 rue St.
Honoré, Paris, I e r ; 25 francs.
T h e P o e m s o f C u t h b e r t S h a w a n d T h o m a s R u s s e l l , with
a biographical and critical essay, and notes. D ulau;
ys. 6d.
H o r n e 's “ O r io n ," with biographical and critical notice and
textual notes. Scholartis P ress; ys. 6d . ; 50 signed copies
on h.m. paper, 21s. (Both editions O .P.)
S o n g s a n d S l a n g o f t h e B r it is h S o l d ie r with various
essays; with John Brophy. Oxford University Press;
ios. 6d. (3rd Edition.)
F r a n c is G r o s s ’s “ C l a s s ic a l D ic t io n a r y o f t h e V u l g a r
T o n g u e ," with copious notes and a biographical and
critical study. Oxford University P ress; 42s.
W o r d s , W o r d s , W o r d s 1, being essays on lexicographers and
studies in word-history (“ The W ord Bloody,” “ Euphem­
ism," “ A ll Fools’ D ay,” “ W esley’s Dictionary,” “ Offen­
sive Nationality,” “ Soldiers’ Slang of Three Nations,”
etc. etc.). Methuen; 6s.
N a m e T h is C h il d , a pleasant dictionary of Christian names.
M ethuen; 5s.
S l a n g T o -d a y a n d Y e s t e r d a y : A study and a history, with
select vocabularies. (America included.) Routledge;
revised edition, 10s. 6d.
U n c o n v e n t io n a l E n g l is h . A dictionary of all British-Empire
English other than standard and other than dialect;
naturalized Americanisms included. A most comprehen­
sive work. Routledge, March, 1936 ; 42s.
T h e S c e n e is Ch a n g e d : a N o v e l . John H eritage; 3s. 6d.
G l im p s e s : A story-sequence. Scholartis P ress; ys. 6d . ; 100
fine-edition signed copies, 21s. (Both editions O.P.)
AU prices net.
