{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__spivey___the_awakening_of_the_sixth_sense.pdf","mytitle":"The Awakening Of The Sixth Sense","mylang":"de"}
The Awakening
of
The Sixth Sense
By
MOT REYWAS
A Look into the Great Unknown
Published by
Thomas Sawyer Spivey
Pool Hill Farm
Shawnee town, Illinois
1935
-7
Copyrighted by
Thomas Sawyer Spivey
1935
DEDICATION
I dedicate this work to men who have the courage to
acknowledge the truth when they find
it,
and the moral
strength to resent attempts to guide them away from the
natural paths which lead to the broadest exercise of thought,
logic and reason.
Such men may rightfully assume
a
place among the
gods of nature.
906253
PREFACE
I submitted specimen chapters of this work to three of
the most conspicuous persons in the literary world.
One was the head of a great educational institution.
One was a conspicuous protestant clergyman.
One was a catholic bishop.
The first responded in the following terse language :
"Go see a specialist. Your spinal cord is twisted."
The second responded :
"You shake my faith in a God, that he has spared you
long enough to complete this blasphemous work".
The third did not deign a reply.
This vain conceit ; this bigoted "I cannot be wrong" at
titude of men who are supposed to be moral and educational
guides to the less fortunate, is the target at which I am shoot
ing. Previous experience has shown me that I have more
than once spotted the bulls-eye. I have challenged them to
come shoot with me, but have only received cold sneers, and
impudent indifference.
If such men could know how amusing this is to me,
they would doubtless change their attitude, and return to the
wheel, and the burning-stake.
It is a matter of chagrin, and bitter disappointment, that
they realize that any conspicuous act to show resentment
would expose the horrible truth, that I have revealed a sys
tem of duplicity and false-pretense to arouse the world.
It is true, while I have written and published many
works, my word pictures are not found hanging in the halls
of fame, because I have painted only pictures of devils in
stead of pictures of "the gods."
I have not sought to be sainted, because I have felt no
desire to have my bones dumped into the rotting junk-piles
of "bones of the saints" in the Pantheon at Rome.
The Awakening 5
I may become a martyr to a cause, but it makes me
smile, that I have placarded the highway in this direction,
so that should I become a martyr, hell will be to pay in this
happy land of hill-billies and hijackers.
I will introduce our two important characters in this story.
"Grub" symbolizes the untrammeled youth, left alone to
follow the natural bent of unprejudiced thought and research.
"The Doctor" is the generous minded searcher after the
truth.
Neither knows the stubborn restraint of prejudice, nor
the drastic discipline of minds bent upon guiding humanity at
large away from natural truths.
This work is full of crudities, from a literary viewpoint,
but every statement of truth and fact may be relied upon as
being based upon the best obtainable authority.
I feel no doubt of its accomplishing its purpose to guide
its readers toward independent thought along forbidden lines.
This work may seem eccentric, and far-fetched, but to
those who think and reason, it will be a placer-mine of pleas
ing discoveries.
The Author
Pool Hill Farm,
Shawneetown, 111.
1935
The Awakening
By
MOT REYWAS
CHAPTER I
"Come, Grub, what are you; staring at the for? Get
busy, boy!" .* " '"
This peremptory command',, was. aHtfrjesSeji fto .7 motion
less young man, who was seated" m a straight-back chair and
staring blankly at the wall.
Receiving no reply the Doctor looked at the youth for
a moment, then went cautiously near him and peered in his
face. To his astonishment Grub's eyes were wide open, and
he appeared to be in a trance. The Doctor looked at the
wall and saw a circular piece of white paper, about the size
of a silver dollar, apparently pasted upon it.
Stepping lightly to the wall he removed the paper, and
Grub immediately awakened, with a start, and looked about
the room in a dazed and confused manner.
Uh, hu! You will fool with hypnotism, eh?" said the
Doctor, and he looked the boy carefully over.
"Wait a minute, doctor, watch me," and Grub picked
up the piece of paper, slapped it against the wall, and it stuck
there. Removing it he handed it to the Doctor, saying:
"Now you do it."
The Doctor good-naturedly pressed the paper against the
wall and it immediately dropped to the floor. Repeatedly he
tried the experiment, alternating with Grub, but it would not
adhere for him. He looked questioningly at Grub.
"Well, Doctor, we have made a great discovery. Auto
matic trance, with exaggerated mental vision, is a practical
thing, neither phenomenal nor dangerous. In fact, it is not
nearly so dangerous as inducing sleep by the use of narcotics."
7
8 The Awakening
And Grub cocked his head to one side and looked at the sur
prised Doctor.
"Where did you get that stuff ?" growled the Doctor, with
an amused and skeptical stare.
"I took a shot out of that blue tube over there," and Grub
pointed to a long blue glass tube, resting in a wire holder.
"What !" yelled the Doctor, springing in to the air. "You
took that inside of you. My god ! Grub, what have you done ?
Go to the h'Oipital at 'once and die there. Don't stay here and
die. Why, that is "rank poison." And the excited Doctor
nearly twisted- bis; firlgers off.'.in his great agitation.
"So is arsenic a deadly poison," calmly replied Grub,
"but when administered in proper doses it is a most effective
alterative remedy. You must know that, Doctor. It especially
affects nutrition of the nervous system. Now, Doctor, it
was your experiments with arsenic which first started me
working along a special line. Do you remember the poor fel
low you had here with St. Vitas dance? I was watching his
convulsive movements, and the results of your medication,
and I could almost name the nerves being affected by your
potions. I anlayzed your remedy, and found its only active
element was arsenic.
"Without going into the merits of arsenic as a medicinal
agent, the fact that it acts upon the nervous system, to cor
rect muscular irregularities, caused me to experiment in search
for a drug which would practically suspend muscular action,
and exaggerate mental activity, without impairing the physical
functions. I found that a self-induced, waking trance was
the condition I sought.
"It is easier to induce the trance state than it is to break
it,
because physical action
is
necessary to again reverse and
turn the mental action into an afferent process.
"We may send a messenger so far away we cannot re
call him with our voice. That
is
exactly the process. While
he
is
near enough to remain under our control, we can see
and experience all that he does, but far away from us, he
is
having experiences we know nothing about.
The Awakening 9
"The mechanical divorce of mind and body may be made
that radical. By intelligent practice, and the judicious use
of chemical agents, we may develop a phenomenal, yet con
trolled, state of mentation."
Suddenly realizing that he was delivering a scientific lec
ture, with only the Doctor as his audience, Grub hesitated.
"Go on, Grub, you deeply interest me," said the Doctor.
"Well," continued Grub, "we know that opium is an
agent of exaggerated dreams. I was aware that you were
conducting one of your experiments with opium, and I judi
ciously experimented with your mixture by graduated potions,
and I have not only experienced no bad effects, but have
actually solved the problem of wholly reversing the mental
and physical processes. I have converted the mental process
into an afferent or attracting force to be controlled and ma
nipulated at will, and the physical process into an efferent
force to merely bind the life processes together in the tempo
rary suspension of mental guidance. The result, therefore,
is to form a juncture, or contact, with some medium which
eliminates time and distance.
"Doctor, I am convinced that this is a direct contact
with the universal mentation, a reservoir, or pabulum, which
receives the living thoughts of organic being. Prentiss Mul-
ford was right when he said 'Thoughts are things.'
"I can demonstrate, beyond all discussion, that there is
a universal mind, in which resides every thought emanating
from living matter. This is memory. Hence, a controlled
subconscious state forms a mental vacuum into which pours
the all-wise universal pabulum. Desire translates this into
the knowledge we seek.
"
'Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find'
(Matt. 7:7; John 16:24).
"You may think it strange to hear me quote the Bible
to substantiate my theories, but you will know later that I
have uncovered a great mystery. Call it tragedy or romance
which you will."
10 The Awakening
"Stop!" almost screamed the Doctor. "Either you are
gone crazy or you are making me crazy. I never heard you
so talkative before." And he passed to the shelf and lifted
the blue glass tube from the rack.
"Did you take your dose out of this?" he demanded.
Grub smilingly nodded assent.
"My god, boy, I hardly know what to say or do," and
in his great agitation he turned away and passed his hand
across his face. Pausing, he picked up the piece of paper
at which Grub had been staring. He examined
it,
turning
it
over to view both sides. He replaced the tube, then de
manded
:
"What has this to do with all of it?"
"Well, you see, mental concentration
is
essential to re
lease the subjective mind from active contact with physical
centres. This concentration brings you subconsciously in con
tact with some tremendous power which actually communi
cates with you, telling you what to do and when to do it.
It was this strange influence which suggested to me the use
of the target for concentration. The power of mental pro
jection becomes so great
it
actually causes the target to cleave
to the wall, as you observed. When the moment comes for
your subconscious mind to assume its normal state, the paper
automatically drops off the wall, and your trance ends."
The Doctor interrupted with
a
question:
"What occurs while you are in the trance condition?"
Grub was deeply confused as he replied:
"Doctor,
I
dare not attempt to tell you.
I
am not in
sane, and
I
do not want you to think so. But my visions
are wholly practical, rational and logical in every sense, as
though
I
were viewing them in
a
normal manner. But, time
and distance are wholly eliminated. It
is
purely
a
spiritual
state."
"Does
it
suggest an individual spirit, independent of the
physical body, being released from the body?" asked the
Doctor.
"No,
it
is
definitely an essenic contact. That thing we
The Awakening 11
call spirit within us remains in the body. The physical pro
cesses are partially and temporarily suspended, to give to the
spiritual, or master power over the interpretations by the brain
centres, an opportunity to examine external phenomena. The
universal mind is a potential, essenic pabulum, seeking vacuum
in which to manifest. We form such vacuum by concentra
tion, which temporarily suspends physical demands upon the
cerebro-spinal nervous system. Hence, you observe the body
at absolute rest during these trances."
"Uh, huh!" grunted the Doctor. "Perhaps that astute
Jesuit, Descartes, was not far wrong in his theory of a 'third
median eye,' located somewhere in the medulla oblongata."
"Doctor, I know it sounds conceited on the part of a
person of my age and experience, but I believe I can go Des
cartes one better. I attribute this present phenomenon to the
awakening of the moot sixth sense, and the sense of universal
being is the true fourth dimension of material bodies. In fu
ture, I, at least, shall refer to the length, breadth, thickness,
and the sense of being, of material things."
"That isn't so bad, Grub," thoughtfully said the Doctor.
"How long have you been practicing this?"
"Not so long; perhaps a month," replied Grub. "But I
am not quite finished with my lecture. There is a deep lesson
in this, Doctor. I have been delving in the collateral branches
of this subject for a long time. Let me explain my views
about this trance power.
"You know that humanity at large has been deprived of
the higher education, and the right of scientific, speculative
thought, for about two thousand years. This has rendered
the great majority incapable of consecutive, concentrated
thought. You also are aware that any long disuse of muscles
or tissues renders them dormant, and incapable of again as
suming their normal functions. This is equally true of the
nervous centres. This sad condition has deprived the people
of the natural progression toward contact with the universal
mentation.
"Thanks to you, Doctor, I have never been thus ham
12 The Awakening
pered, and your influence and example has made me a thinker
from childhood. I am positive that the centres of thought hav
ing been permitted to take a normal course of development,
without the influence of prejudiced minds, the sixth sense,
has been awakened. The church attempts to reveal this pos
sibility in the fabulous infancy of Jesus. At the age of twelve
years he was expounding wisdom to the older men."
"It seems to me, Grub, much of this is superficial at this
particular time," said the Doctor. "I want to learn more about
the process and what produces the strange faculty which
you have so suddenly acquired."
"Following each trance, I am filled with an overpower
ing desire to reveal what is shown to me," said Grub.
"Have you been drinking much water out of our bottle
there ?" asked the Doctor, pointing to the large, inverted glass
jar which contained their usual supply of pure water, used
for both laboratory and drinking purposes.
"I drink no other water to speak of," replied Grub.
"Well, now, Grub, having recovered my wits, I think I
have the laugh on you. I recall that I thoroughly cleansed
this tube a month ago, and it contains nothing more potent,
now, than stale rain water," and the Doctor laughed heartily,
as he was about to empty the water out of the tube.
"Wait, Doctor, don't empty it," and he almost forcibly
took the tube from the Doctor's hand. "This is too important
to make any mistakes."
"Well, what is there in that?" gasped the Doctor.
"Let us place this under your most powerful microscope,
Doctor," said Grub, "to see if it contains living germs."
For a long time they worked, making an exhaustive
microscopic examination, and chemical analysis, of the water
in both the tube and the container.
To their amazement, they found in the water an unknown
germ. This opened up a wide range of speculative thought
and research.
"You, also, have been drinking the same water, Doctor,"
said Grub.
The Awakening 13
"No, I always drink the water from the well. I do not
approve of drinking water accumulated in cisterns," replied
the Doctor.
"Well, this water seems to be chemically safe. It has not
impaired my health. I'd try it a while if I were you, Doctor,"
said Grub.
"Ha, ha!" laughed the Doctor, "are you equally certain
it has not impaired your mind?"
"On the contrary, it has made me a mental giant. I
have at my command all the wisdom of the past," enthusi
astically declared Grub.
"How about the future?" asked the Doctor.
"You have asked me an important question, Doctor,"
responded Grub. "I do not seem to be able to see into the
future. It suggests the taking of the mind back to the begin
ning, spreading out a universal wisdom, hence, I conclude that
it is a revelation of those things and events which have been
recorded up to this time, and, as I have said, it is not an ef
ferent power which can peer into the future.
"Perhaps with long and understanding training the human
mind may blend with the creative mind in a manner to -antici
pate future events. This has been the ambition of thinking
minds through all ages.
"So-called prophecy, in the christian Bible, is based upon
such a possibility, but only the principle is involved, for these
prophecies are rank false-pretense. It is a sinister fact that
they attempt to fulfill them by creating conditions to meet such
necessity. It is a common thing to find following each pre
tended fulfillment something like this:
"
'Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which
was spoken by the prophets' (Matt. 1:22; 2:15; 2:23, and
twenty other references in Matthew and John alone). The
humbug character of these prophecies is quickly grasped in
the following:
"
T will raise up a prophet and will put my words in
his mouth.
"
'But the prophet which shall presume to speak a word
14 The Awakening
in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, even
that prophet shall die.
"
'When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord,
if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing
which the Lord hath not spoken' (Deut. 18).
"How is that for a sure-thing game?"
"I am somewhat puzzled to find you so familiar with the
Bible, Grub, and your apt and appropriate quotations must
mean much, but just now, I am more interested in solving this
chemical problem. When did we fill that outside tank?"
And the Doctor awaited Grub's reply with some eagerness.
"Why, don't you remember that terrible storm, when the
rain ran off the roof in such torrents the tank overflowed?
Gee ! I'll never forget that lightning," was Grub's earnest
reply.
"Now that you recall
it,
yes,
I
also remember the atmos
phere was surcharged with hydrogen sulphide," said the Doc
tor. "Maybe we've found something, Grub. Hydrogen sul
phide
is
a
powerful narcotic. It
is
ordinarily
a
product of the
purification of organic matter, but just where the clouds ab
sorbed this, in this particular instance,
it
would be difficult
to determine.
"It
is
curious that you mentioned arsenic, when we first
began this conversation. Look at that yellow precipitate in
the bottom of this tube
;
that
is
the precipitate of arsenic.
"Hand me that small bottle on the second shelf—yes, that
one
;
that
is
lead acetate.
"I'll dip this paper in
it
and test the water in the tube.
"There
it
is
!
See how black
it
turns. Yes, even now,
there are traces of hydrogen sulphide in the water.
"Now, the outside tank
is
practically sealed, and our water
jar wholly so.
"I tell you, my boy, this
is
a
serious thing. You are
loaded with some kind of germs, because of drinking this par
ticular water. Whether
it
is
harmful or not remains to be
seen." And the Doctor replaced the articles and pushed his
hands deep in his pockets, and began to pace the floor in deep
The Awakening 15
thought. Suddenly he walked to the water jar, drew a glass
of water, tasted
it,
then swallowed the balance, saying:
"Why, there
is
no objectionable odor or flavor to this
water. Not
a
whiff of sulphur."
"I've been thinking," said Grub, "if that germ you found
is
in the water from the jar, the whole body of water
is
po
tentially inoculated with it; but
if
the exposure of the open
tube to the air sets up a germinating process, the water in
the closed jar contains only the chemical life forces, and
these may possibly develop in one's system the same germs.
Sulphur
is
one of the basic elements in early organic life.
"Could
it
be possible, Doctor, to originate
a
germ within
our own physical economy which would endow us with power
to project our subjective minds to an intimate contact with
the universal consciousness?"
"That
is
too far-fetched to discuss just now," replied the
doctor. "But, I'm going to drink that water for ten days
and make daily notes of the results."
"When you can place that paper against the wall and
it
will stick there, you may know you are saturated with the
universal germs. But, Doctor, beginning tomorrow, we should
do nothing else but bottle that water until no more remains
in the tank, for that dreadful storm brought to us the very
elixir of universal life. We may never get
it
again. We
cannot take chances of reproducing
it
by artificial means.
I
believe this germ
is
the original first-shot out of the uni
versal laboratory; the electron—N. O. C. H. = 43 —perfected
into the primordial clot of living pabulum out of which the
primary cells of both animal and vegetable being arise."
"Yes, Grub, we know so little of the true origin of life.
Maybe accident has brought us some of the ancient wisdom.
Let us say no more, till
I
am ready to make my test of your
theory ten days hence," and the Doctor passed into his labora
tory den.
CHAPTER II
The ten-day period of probation slipped quickly by, as
though time was in league with Grub to convince the Doctor.
Grub came into the room where he and the Doctor had
previously held their discussion on the merits of rain water
to produce the universal germs.
The youth paused as he beheld the Doctor, seated in the
same identical chair previously occupied by himself, and star
ing blankly at the wall, and at the same disc of paper used
as a target by himself.
Grub did not immediately arouse him, but quietly waited
for results.
It was some minutes before the disc dropped to the flood,
when the Doctor heaved a great sigh.
Upon observing Grub, he looked a bit embarrassed, then
laughed an hysterical sort of laugh as he arose, saying:
"Grub, you are truly a great scientist, but I advise that
we keep this a deep, dark secret until we have perfected it.
It is all and more than you dreamed it to be."
"Well, Doctor, it's a relief to me that you have been so
successful in convincing yourself that it truly is a new science
we are revealing. I quite agree that we should perfect it
before we attempt to exploit it," and Grub picked up the bit
of paper and placed it on the mantel.
"I found I could make the disc adhere three days ago,
but upon attempting to concentrate my mind upon
it,
I
could
only see great, rolling clouds of colors. While this seems to
be clearing
a
bit
I
have had no other visions," said the Doctor.
"Yes,
I
should have explained the process to you more
fully.
I
had made
it
a
practice to attach the paper to the
wall
;
keep my eyes upon
it
while backing to my chair
;
then
I
wholly concentrated upon the disc, until
it
seemed to dis
appear amidst vast clouds of brilliant colors, all the shades
of the spectrum. And, Doctor,
it
just now occurs to me,
these waves are in consecutive order, from center to circum
16
The Awakening 17
ference, and the colors or circles in the order of the spec
trum, the center violet, then follow indigo, blue, green,
yellow, orange and red. There is a theory that the planets,
Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune
are identified in the order of these colors. I am much im
pressed by this additional suggestion that we are digging our
way into the universal world.
"It is when the violet centre seems to turn to a steel
gray, almost white, that the field begins to clear and the visions
begin. Oh ! another suggestion comes to me this moment.
Why, Doctor, there is no doubt about our having entered
the living field of this planetary system. This final field por
trays the reflecting powers of the Moon principle, and this
is the real source of our natural wisdom on earth. This will
be a big lesson later for us. Now, does this approximate
your experience ?"
"Exactly, up to the steel-like centre, and I have had no
other visions, and I do not know when the disc dropped off
the wall," said the Doctor.
"Your next sitting will bring you fully into the charmed
field," said Grub. "The disc dropped off the wall but a mo
ment before you aroused.
"When I first began my experiments, I had two fears.
First, I could not guess what effect the vivid colors might
have upon my eyes or my brain; next, I was fearful that it
might be of a hypnotic nature which could place one in a
cataleptic state ; but, with practice, I overcame these fears.
I will now tell you what your next experience will be. Upon
awakening, you will be seized with an uncontrollable desire
to do authomatic writing, apparently intended to record and
reveal invisible wisdom with which your mind comes in con
tact while in the trance state. Just a moment." And Grub
stepped to his own cabinet desk, and brought forth a large
quantity of sheets upon which were writings and drawings.
"These are amazing revelations, Doctor, treating mainly
of a comparison of the human structures with planetary simil
itudes. I am just beginning to solve the mystery by interpreta
18 The Awakening
tion, and I must tell you at once, they have revealed that the
christian enterprise is wholly personified gnostic wisdom. It
is so intricate, that, they themselves have lost the key—the
fabulous keys, of heaven and earth, handed to St. Peter, the
foundation of the church."
"Grub, this becomes more amazing as it is revealed,"
said the Doctor. "Its possibilities seem endless. The most
important thing to solve, I think,
is,
to what extent we may
control this new power to apply
it
to practical ends, and
in
a
way which will unite us in common purposes, that we
may work together, that we may aid each other in
a
systematic
work."
"My own experiences intimate such possibility," said Grub.
"But let me ask: have you had any intimation of
a
contact
with a conscious personality?"
"Yes,
I
seemed to sense the presence of some invisible
being attempting to encourage me," said the Doctor.
"That's it," exclaimed Grub. "It
is
the subconscious mind
urging us on. It
is
eager for the universal wisdom. Next
it
will speak to you. It will say:
"
T
am with you.
I
will protect you'."
This was
a
critical period in a tremendous experiment.
Both of these students of mystery were convinced that they
were on the point of demonstrating a great scientific dis
covery, and they were eager to delve deeply in the subject.
Dr. Parshal Heim had raised from a child this fine young
man whom he had named Grub. His real name was Robert
Bontee.
They were pals, these thinking men, engaged in
a
pro
fession most congenial and edifying.
In view of the fact that the Doctor was quite a wealthy
man, their work was more
a
pleasing pastime than
a
business.
Their laboratory was well-equipped for all kinds of ex
perimental chemistry, astronomy and general scientific and
philosophical research. They were now fully launched upon
the greatest experimental adventure ever essayed by men, in
The Awakening 19
an attempt to establish a human contact with a universal men
tation.
Six months later they had progressed to a point where,
arm in arm, they could step back into the past and actually
participate in the living events of which history teaches little,
and that little beclouded and censored by designing political
intrigues, and selfish misrepresentations.
They could view the frivolous and puny civilization at
a glance, and understand the motive of every inspired human
motion.
They were filled with disgust at the narrow, stingy, self
ish attitude assumed by those to whom mankind had been en
trusted for guidance and development. Self-glorification
seemed to be the sole object of men chosen as leaders. They
sought to be made heroes and gods. They shrank with horror
from the truth that, human intellect was but a rudimental rem
nant of the original intent of nature, that man should become
the highest manifestation of universal mentation. A thousand
years of enforced ignorance had done its work well, leaving
all mankind, in some degree, insane.
This morning they were seated in the Doctor's cozy li
brary, engaged in one of their eager discussions of the great
problem.
The Doctor held in his hand a book on Animal Magne
tism, by Deleuze.
"Now, Grub," he began, "I believe we may find here a
solution of the mystery which has apparently linked our minds
up with the universal mentation."
"I am most anxious to know if it involves a real person
ality, or conscious individuality," eagerly responded Grub.
"No, not in the sense that you mean, but it does involve
intelligent forces, which are almost human, although com
pelled to follow arbitrary lines. Our connection is a contact,
and not a projection," said the Doctor.
"Well, what I wish to fully determine
is,
have we formed
a
contact with anything which resembles the idea of
a
chris
tian God," hesitatingly said Grub.
20 The Awakening
"No, not in the remotest degree. The christian God
character is a puny weakling, compared with this combina
tion of natural, intelligent forces. The christian religion, which
never has been a religion except in the pagan sense, must now
cease tormenting humanity with its blaa-blaa, and show its
grim and bloody hands as a ruthless, political intrigue. There
will remain no further room for argument for the continu
ance of the all-consuming churches.
"I do not believe the present generations can recover
the original mental powers, but if our lives are spared, Grub,
we shall attempt to blaze a highway over which new genera
tions may return to the way of mental evolution originally
contemplated by nature. But, as long as mankind exists upon
this planet, the scars of the degradation of inspired ignor
ance will mar the face of humanity.
"Mean, contemptible priesthoods snatched away the great
est gifts of nature, that they might enslave the greater man
kind to their pleasures and glorification as gods upon earth.
Failing to usurp the reserve powers of nature, common to all
living creatures, because of their own sheer ignorance, they
converted their own selfish enterprise into a vast political
machine, which has been so skillfully manipulated it rules
the world today. Its so-called congregations are but trained
militant mobs, so filled with superstitious fear, and blind fa
naticism, they cannot see or understand the truth. It is or
ganization which holds this vast machine in power.
"You and I will live to see this all changed, when this
wonderful discovery develops into a simple, understandable,
instructive science, to be taught in our public schools," and
the Doctor paused.
"That gives me great relief. You are becoming more
enthusiastic than I, Doctor," said Grub.
"Now let me explain what I have been pondering," con
tinued the Doctor. "This power, which we are now able to
demonstrate, is allied with magnetism, developed to a degree
of mental equation with known facts.
"I give you credit for the basic discovery, Grub, and that
The Awakening 21
is your 'first shot out of the universal laboratory,' the first
electric molecule, born out of the original or primary electron
and forming the magnetic life cell, the formula of which is
N. O. C. H. = 43. Which we quickly recognize as the first
living clot out of which arise the life germs of both vegetable
and animal organisms.
"Your conclusion that this cell is the connecting link
between the human mind and the universal mind, is the true
discovery. An understanding contact is the awakening of
conscious universal being.
"We are in contact with the atmosphere and draw from
it our breath.
"We are in contact with the earth and the waters and
draw from them our solid and liquid nourishments.
"Why then should we not be in conscious contact with
the source of our mental nourishment, drawn direct from the
vibratory world?
"Nitrogen, oxygen, carbon and hydrogen, then, are the
four primary atoms which form the first living molecule,
and this cell is a magnetized body, because of the fact, that
the four primary elements, of which it is formed, are mu
tually united, and held in suspense until this cell germinates
and enters into the constructive processes of material growth.
It is the living germ of this original cell which retains and
carries into the greater body, the universal contact.
"By suspending certain physical activities, and prac
ticing the mental concentration, such as we practice, we supply
the brain with an overplus of these magnetic cells, and thus
form a reactive contact with the universal pabulum from which
they are drawn.
"Let me demonstrate this by a material simile. We have
two stations, which communicate with each other by sending
back and forth a messenger. We unite these two stations by
tube or wire and form a permanent and continuous connec
tion.
"This is not altogether new, Grub. We find a positive
knowledge of your wave theory in Greek mythology. The
22 The Awakening
Greek philosophers were aware of this primary process of
forming the first cell, even to making the earth a symbol
of the molecule.
"This simple diagram reveals this ancient knowledge.
"The caduceus, the emblem of Mercury, plainly reveals
the process by which this primary life cell is formed.
"Bring your drawing showing the primary set of creative
waves. Yes, that," and Grub spread upon the table a sheet
showing a series of waves made with the progressive atti
tudes of serpents, the ancient symbols of wisdom.
Electron Nitrogen Oxygen Carbon (Hydrogen
"You explained to me, Grub, identically the process re
vealed by the caduceus.
"The carbon and the hydrogen represent the earth and
water, and the oxygen and nitrogen surround these as an at
mosphere.
"The product is a little planet.
"Now for the story of Mercury and his caduceus.
"Mercury was the messenger and god of commerce, be
tween the heaven and the earth. He was walking one day,
with this carbon staff in his hand, and he observed two ser
pents contending. He stuck the end of his staff in the earth,
and the two serpents immediately entwined about it and were
immediately at peace. That is symbolized by the caduceus.
. "Huh !" grunted Grub. "That makes the earth itself a
magnetized body."
"Exactly so, and that accounts for the so-called law of
gravitation," said the Doctor.
"This Mercury is always pictured with a cheerful coun-
Ovaat-
The Awakening 23
tenance, as the messenger of the gods, and with his emblem
of commerce he is the ambassador of peace. Nevertheless,
he is the prince of thieves. He steals even the lightning from
the heavens, and attempts to steal the thunder from Jupiter,
but has not the means to confine it. The serpent symbolizes
the lightning entwining itself about the trees and passing into
the earth.
"But that is enough of Mercury now. Let's examine the
subject of animal magnetism," and the Doctor reached for his
Deleuze.
"To begin, Grub, I want to impress upon your mind that
animal magnetism was a wonderful discovery. It came near
to becoming an applied science.
"Important surgical operations were effected without the
slightest pain, or evil effects, on the part of the patients. It
was rudely condemned, and its use was suppressed. Danger
ous anaesthetics were substituted.
"Thus, like many others, a great scientific discovery was
snatched away from mankind, on the contemptible excuse
that the practice was dangerous and could be used for crim
inal ends. The same charge could be brought against any
human necessity.
"The truth is simple. Under the influence of magnetism,
narcotics, and alcoholic liquors, the mind is exalted, and ex
aggerated in its activities. The one great fear of the ecclesi-
asts is the discovery that it suppressed the original gnostic
wisdom, which is a traditional record to be revived by inspira
tion in periods of mental exaltation. This is why it attempts
to suppress every avenue by which the greater masses may
come in contact with scientific education and research.
"For two thousand years this selfish thing has striven to
monopolize learning by the few, that the greater mankind
might be securely bound in the slavely of ignorance, which
has developed into the curse of humanity under the pressure
of protected fanaticism.
"The simple facts about magnetism are these :
"Stronger minds have the faculty of exercising a super-
24 The Awakening
influence over weaker persons, by directing toward them cer
tain vital mental forces, exactly as a strong person, physically,
might bring food and comfort to weaker invalid persons.
"It may be said it is the exercise of a strong will power;
nevertheless, the patient must be susceptible through confi
dence and belief.
"You will readily see that the church has practically con
fiscated magnetic principles. Without faith the church could
not hold its following; without ignorance there could be no
belief or faith.
"Gnosis means to know, knowledge.
"Faith is to believe, ignorance.
"The fight against magnetism was brief, because it was
between a new and little known science, and an established
body fed up on religious fanaticism. The church won, and,
as usual, humanity suffered a tremendous loss.
"Grub, gnosticism, and it is corroborated by your recent
experiments, intimates a universal thought in common, of
which the church held a holy fear. This is why it bound
humanity in ignorance for a thousand years, to break all pos
sibility of the development of such a faculty, by breaking
natural universal contact.
"I believe, however, we have it on the theory of the mag
netic healers, as far as I am able to judge at this time. The
theory
is,
that
a
substance emanates from the magnetizer,
and
is
conveyed to the subject, any distance, by will-power.
This
is
called the magnetic fluid. It
is
admitted, however,
that the nature of this fluid
is
unknown. It seems strange
they have not recognized
a
universal medium of an electric
character.
"The fact that actual beneficial results are anticipated and
registered, proves that some intelligent influence
is
trans
mitted to the patient.
"Now, here
is
my conclusion: the magnetic spell
is
a
trance condition brought on by suggestion, strong desire, and
absolute faith or belief that relief will be effected. Attrac
tion and repulsion are the agents of transmission, and this
The Awakening 25
action is identical with the transmission of will through the
nervous system of the human body, from cell to cell, in the
medullary matter —this is practically mental healing.
"The healer has no other power than the power of sug
gestion sufficient to concentrate the mind of the patient upon
absolute belief in some power to give relief, and that is the
will power to conquer the disease.
"
'All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing
ye shall receive' (Matt. 21:22).
"They understood the principle.
"To receive the magnetic suggestion, the subject must
be in a receptive mood and have faith in the process.
"
'Faith is the substance of things hoped for, evidence
of things not seen' (Heb. 11:1).
"The supposed projection of the magnetic power is iden
tical with the ordinary mental process, with the vibratory, uni
versal pabulum as the medium. Therefore it is not a fluid,
but a vibratory force, set in motion by the will of the oper
ator, assisted by the strong desire and belief of the subject.
Two persons can push or pull a material object with greater
force than one. Two persons can agitate a body of water
more than one. Why, then, may not two minds, deeply con
centrated upon the mental pabulum, realize similar results?
"We at once see that the essential conditions in magnetiz
ing are: first, the will of the subject, strengthened by the
will of the magnetic physician ; second, confidence on the part
of both the operator and the subject, and thirdly, strong mu
tual desire for the specific results. This is wholly a mag
netic communication between embodied minds entering into
agreement to draw upon some invisible power. The medium
in this process
is,
of necessity, an abstract and immaterial
thing. This
is
our electric pabulum, Grub. It
is
not matter,
but the original source of the primary forces which create the
material bodies. It
is
the electric molecule which carries
the healing power. It begets the will power to cast out dis
eased sells and absorb new and healthy ones."
"May
I
give my impression of the magnetic process drawn
26 The Awakening
from your discourse, Doctor, to see if I fully understand?"
asked Grub.
"I am glad to have you suggest it," replied the Doctor.
"As I see it," began Grub, "the operator merely empha
sizes a desire to perform a specific cure, and registers that
desire by mental projection into the electric pabulum, having
absolute faith and belief that his desire will be fulfilled. The
receptive mind of the patient, having a foreknowledge of this
operation, and equal faith, is the recipient of the projected
suggestion, from the electric pabulum. We have here one
mind positively directing the message, and the other mind at
tracting it. Yes, Doctor, that may well be named magnetic
action. There is no substantial exchange between the two
minds, but merely mental suggestion, and absolute faith, guid
ing and directing the current to the seat of desire, and to
strengthen the will-power of the patient.
"
'But let him ask in faith nothing wavering' (James 1 :6).
"Faith once established, blocks all future interference.
It is clear that christianity is wholly founded upon blind faith,
but it has failed to make good its promises of substantial
results.
"I can see a reason why the church opposed magnetic
healing, although admitting its efficacy.
"The direct action of magnetism is supposed to cease
upon the withdrawal of the suggestion of the magnetizer.
Nevertheless, the faith of the subject may be sufficient to
cause him to continue experimenting, with the possibility of
awakening the sixth sense. This is what the church fears.
'Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering' (1 James 1:6).
"This point is well taken, Grub," said the Doctor. "It
was one of the arguments against magnetism that it was at
tempting to usurp the healing powers of Jesus Christ, mean
ing the church.
"The main fear was, that, magnetism would transfer
faith in the church to faith in an invisible healing power.
'Holding the mystery of the faith'—a duty of the deacons of
the church (1 Tim. 3:9).
The Awakening 27
"The advocates of magnetism insist that a fluid passes
between the operator and the subject. This would seem to
intimate no belief in a universal medium. Therefore, if we
demonstrate such a medium, we automatically prove that the
human mind can project mental will-power for external pur
poses, as it directs the operations of the physical body by
nervous impulse, hence, this projecting power is equivalent
to the temporary release of some faculty of the subjective
mind.
"I am convinced it is this subjective mind which attempts
to communicate with us. Now, what would you say, Grub,
if I advanced the idea that this subjective mind is one with
the universal mind?"
"Gee! Doctor, that sure is a big idea," exclaimed Grub.
"That would be the spirit of our body."
"Well, let's see if the concealed gnosticism of the Bible
agrees with this," and the Doctor reached for his Bible and
concordance.
'"God is a spirit' (John 4:24).
"
'It is the spirit that quickeneth' (John 6:63).
"
'Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that
the spirit of God dwelleth in you' (1 Cor. 3:16).
"This is an important thing, Grub. If we can release our
subjective mind at will, it merely blends back into the original
pabulum and becomes saturated with universal wisdom. This
release is by our process of concentration, when the body,
the 'temple of God,' is silent until he returns to bring us new
inspiration and courage.
"It was generous in the advocates of magnetism to admit
that every human being in some degree, possessed magnetic
powers, for that is perfectly natural. These magnetic powers
are attributes of the subconscious being—the power of attrac
tion.
"It is logical that a strong, healthy, self-reliant person
would exercise a dominant influence over a weaker person.
Like exercising body and mind, the exercise of magnetism
increases mental strength and confidence."
28 The Awakening
"But, Doctor, our experiments do not exactly correspond
with magnetism," said Grub. "Instead of projecting a power,
we solicit and attract external forces, for our visions are of
external, and even unknown things. Unlike the fatigue of the
magnetic exertions, one feels a great elation, and exhilira-
tion, following a period of concentration, accompanied by an
irresistable desire to write or relate what he has acquired."
"That is perfectly natural. The magnetic operator gen
erously directs his forces toward the subject, thus depleting
his own forces. The patient, on the contrary, feels regen
erated, whereas, when one is his own magnetizer, he receives
all the benefits, with the exhilirations. He is feasting upon
life itself. As I have previously said, the desire to write,
following the concentration, is the instinctive desire to record
those invisible things which have come into the mind, before
they fade like a dream.
"It was the feeling of weariness which caused the mag
netizer to believe he was projecting a nervous fluid, whereas
he was withholding nervous impulse from the functioning
organs of the body, and exhausting this by depleting his own
will power."
"That is very clear, Doctor. I readily see the differ
ence," said Grub. "I must again express my belief that we
have awakened the sixth sense."
"Yes. and that is the sense suppressed by a thousand
years of brutally enforced ignorance," said the Doctor.
They then adjourned the sitting.
CHAPTER III
It was a calm, sunlit day; the library was evenly filled
with a soft, silvery light, and all things seemed right for
a perfect sitting.
They had preserved the magic disc, and it was agreed
that this should be a test of the possibility of their combin
ing their work in a manner to mutually pass into the trance
condition together, and retain their individuality as in their
waking hours.
The Doctor had laughingly suggested that they take a
little jorney together to break the monotony of abstract specu
lations.
"That suits me," quickly responded Grub. "I have been
dreaming of travel in lands strange to me, with you who have
traveled much over the world as a guide. I am sure it
would be educational and instructive to me, and entertaining
to you, could we be able to thus apply our new sense."
"We can try it," said the Doctor.
"Should we suggest our course before passing into our
. concentration?" asked Grub.
"Yes, I believe that would be the proper procedure," said
the Doctor. "If it should prove to be practical, we probably
would want to travel over Europe first, and it would be log
ical to begin with London."
Grub slapped the disc against the wall and it adhered.
They adjusted themselves in their chairs, side by side,
at the table. At the Doctor's suggestion they clasped hands.
For an indefinite time only silence prevailed, when both
perceptibly started, as though something had prodded them
to awaken them. They had both heard a voice saying :
"I am with you; I will watch over you; I will protect
you."
"Doctor," softly said Grub.
"Yes, Grub, I am perfectly competent," replied the Doc
tor. "But where are we? This doesn't look like London."
29
30 The Awakening
"Let us test whether we are seeing alike, Doctor," said
Grub. "What is the most conspicuous thing you see?"
"London Bridge. Can you see it?" replied the Doctor.
"But it doesn't seem natural."
"Ah, we're all right. I see it," said Grub.
A gentle voice spoke to them saying:
"I am your guide. Yes, you are in London." Slowly a
form became visible and a strange figure appeared.
"And who are you, may I ask," said the Doctor.
"I am time," was the kindly reply. "Were you versed
in mythology, you would recognize me, perhaps as Saturn,
or maybe Chronus, or Cronus for short."
"Well, we shall be friendly, and call you Cronus, but how
did you know we were coming to London?" said the Doctor.
"Time knows everything," replied Cronus.
"I have been in London before, but I can not recognize
the place now. Not even London Bridge. I presume that
is the bridge," said the Doctor.
Time laughed, saying: "Of course not. You perhaps
know all that is interesting about modern London, of the
twentieth century, but you are now viewing London of the ,
eighteenth century."
"Where did the name London originate?" asked the
Doctor.
"Its derivation is from Llyn-Din, signifying 'the town on
the lake.' It was the capital of the Saxon kingdom of Essex,
and was known in the time of the Heptarchy as Lunden-
Ceaster," said Cronus.
"By the way, Cronus, I have been trying to recall you
as a mythological character, and standing as you now are, I
do recognize the figure of Chronus, as pictured in my books
on mythological gods," said the Doctor.
"That is the only way you could know me, for I have
never assumed a physical form," replied Cronus.
"Well Cronus, you evidently have some mysterious knowl
edge of the causes which have brought us here, therefore, we
The Awakening 31
must wholly trust to your guidance and judgment until we
may feel our feet on firm ground here," said the Doctor.
"Impossible!" exclaimed Cronus. "Your material feet
are not in London. Your feet will remain dormant until you
break your mental contact with the universal medium. By
virtue of my universal knowledge, I have attached myself
to your work, and I give it my friendly approval. You are
here by your own suggestion. I alone can endow you with
the mental power to separate one from another, the events
and images recorded in the universal mind. Time alone is the
measurer. This enables me to guide you intelligently, so you
may record, in your own incarnated consciousness, those vis
ions which will best please and edify you. You will readily
recognize this as the process by which pictures which you
read about are reflected into your memory."
"Then, according to that, you possess the sense of se
lectivity," said the Doctor.
"Yes, indeed," quickly responded Cronus. "I have been
the measurer of all created things, through all the ages, and
that censorship has exercised the power to reject by suppres
sion, as well as to promote by judicious selection."
"You vindicate our worldly philosophers, Darwin and
Spencer, in their theory of selectivity," remarked Grub.
"They but reveal the processes of evolution so specific
ally measured by time," said Cronus.
"But I must inform you that your decision to spend your
time in travel at this period of your physical experiments may
lose your contact. It is suggested by carnal desire for thrill,
which is a physical desire. While I may suggest, I cannot
construct. I am but the measurer of human events. I can,
however, reveal to you the results, be they good or evil.
You are doubtless amazed at the realistic character of this
magnetic trance in which you rest, but I suggest caution in
its exercise. I must warn you of its dangers. You must not
deceive yourselves in the belief that your spirit has stepped
out of your body while in a somnolent state. This state is
irritating to the physical body while your mind is consciously
32 The Awakening
in contact with the universal mentation. It is especially try
ing upon the heart, which must blindly maintain circulation
while your subjective self is on a mental jag.
"The sense of selectivity must be cautiously guided, that
you may not gather thistles instead of lilies. It is the mind
which chooses between good and evil, therefore, you may
over-burden the physical machine with harmful things, with
the universe to select from.
"With judicious training you will be able to extend the
physical endurance and control carnal desire.
"Therefore, I cannot be responsible for guiding you into
the midst of the clash and jangle of city life as you know it
in the twentieth century. I do not approve of your taking
these long excursions until you are more experienced in the
exercise of this wonderful gift of nature. But, now that
you have made the first venture, I shall exercise my privi
lege of leading you away from frivolities, and will give you
some lessons in the heavy tragedies of so-called human pro
gression, by introducing to you the great monuments of hu
man error.
"Moreover, I shall assume mastership over your excur
sions for a period of time, and I shall limit your travels into
Europe to a few excursions, with limited but instructive ex
periences."
"We are wholly subject to your leadership, Cronus," said
the Doctor. "But you say we are in a magnetic trance. Then
magnetism, as applied by magnetic healers, has some merit."
"Why, it sustains life. It binds body and soul together.
It is the balance of power between the embodied mind and
the universal mentation," said Cronus.
"Your embodied, individual consciousness is your spirit,
the organized forces which construct and maintain your phys
ical mechanism by mutuality. Your spirit knows nothing
about form, except as pictured and recorded in memory, and
stored in your brain to be awakened and revealed by a rer
flective contact with the universal medium. The stored wis
The Awakening 33
dom of time is identical with the stored memory of organic
being."
"Truly you startle me," exclaimed the Doctor. "Do you
mean that all these visible things about us, that great bridge,
for instance, are not real and yet they have distinct forms?
How can a thing have form and occupy space and not be
material ?"
"I suppose all those elephants, horses, houses and steam
ships, and a myriad of other living pictures stored in your
memory, a vision of which you can recall at will, are real,
material things. How on earth did you crowd them into your
limited cranium? You are now peering into the memory of
all past ages," was Cronus' reply.
"Ah, that is an apt explanation, Cronus. Necessarily
we also must vision things which were not in our previous
experiences," said the Doctor.
"I have a revelation," exclaimed Grub. "That explains
the story of Noah and the ark."
"Why, of course," said Cronus. "Common sense tells
you the story of the ark cannot be true. The cubic space
in the alleged ark could not hold a millionth part of the
animals allegedly placed in it. Moreover, one day's excre
ments would have buried ark and all beneath a mountain of
good garden fertilizer."
"Say, this beats seeing London," said Grub. "I am some
thing of a Bible student, Cronus. Please tell us something
more about this fable."
"It's a very simple story," said Cronus. "The ark is the
brain. Noah is the mind. No means place, ah means God.
Therefore, Noah in the brain is the place of God. Mean
ing also rest and reflection. It is during rest and reflection
we recall to memory visions of real things. We may vision
a whole fleet of ships upon the sea, then, at will, ever after
wards, recall the picture in every proportion and detail.
"It is true, the original, of necessity, had to be real,
else Noah could not have recalled the picture with under
standing."
34 The Awakening
"I have wondered also that any one reading the Bible
may not see the absurdity of the ark landing on Mt. Arrarat,
seventeen thousand feet high, when the waters of the flood
only rose about thirty-five feet," said Grub.
"You must not take these foolish fables literally. They
are gnostic lessons concealed in figure. Measured by human
rules it is criminal to teach these things literally," explained
Cronus.
"While I have never delved deeply into the subject, all
this upsets my previous idea of forms. I believed that form,
to occupy space, must be material. Does this not imply that
a disembodied spirit, as taught by the christian church, is
possible?" remarked the Doctor.
"Would not that take the devil and his hosts into heaven
along with God and his angels? They all go into hell, which
means the grave. This is another cruel hoax of the church,"
said Cronus. "As long as the material body lives, it has a
conscious power to interpret the universal memory, because
the physical mechanism, essential to make that interpretation,
is created for that purpose. When the heart ceases to beat,
life, memory, and conscious being cease to be. If this is not
true, why are we cumbered with a physical, material body?
Never having seen a spirit body, it is natural for the chris
tian scheme to promise a resurrection of the physical body
to give individuality to the spirit. Now that individuality is
merely a memory of the physical form in life, this reveals
another absolute christian fake."
Again Grub exclaimed :
"Ha! another inspiration. We have previously agreed
that every living creature is created for the fruit it will yield
to the universal pabulum. Man is likened unto a tree in the
Bible, to be cultivated like any other tree, for the fruit he
yields to the universal church. Here on earth he is cultivated,
physically or mentally, for the carnal things he yields to be
sold to fat-bellied priests for spiritual things."
"You are growing wise, young man," said Cronus.
"
'Either make the tree good, and his fruit good, or else
The Awakening 35
make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt; for the tree is
known by his fruit' (Matt. 12:33).
"They dared not put the word man, instead of tree, in
this diabolical proposition. In Psalms 1
:3,
man
is
likened unto
a
fruit-bearing tree, and in many other places.
"Why cultivate a tree to bear either kind of fruit,
if
not
for some personal use or traffic?
"
'If we have sown unto you spiritual things,
is
it
a great
thing
if
we shall reap your carnal things?'
(1
Cor. 9:11).
"This whine doesn't come from God,
it
comes from the
greedy priesthood, living off slaving humanity. They are
speaking for themselves. But to the poor, ignorant fool who
produces the carnal, worldly stuff, they yell
:
"
'To be carnally minded
is
death.
"
'Because the carnal mind
is
enmity against God' (Ro
mans 6:7).
"Now what are they doing with the carnal stuff?
"Why, they mean bread, mutton, and good wine on the
lees."
"Well
!
I
thought we were to have
a
visit in London, and
here we are discussing and cussin' the merits of Bible ab
surdities," said the Doctor.
"Nevertheless you are not wasting your time. London
is
a
material thing. You may prowl
it
at your pleasure, but
it
is
edifying to examine these spiritual similitudes. They
are
a
part of your spiritual feast. Wisdom
is
potential knowl
edge. Knowledge
is
revealed wisdom. Both are spiritual.
Carnal things are worldly, sensual things. Material things,
the product of human labor and suffering. This
is
what the
pompous prieshood reaps. Do you suppose the Bible encour
ages the cultivation of evil fruits,
if
the church was not the
market place, where may be
a
traff icing in these fruits?
"Think this over in your waking hours, Doctor. You may
find the churches are fostering evil in your own country for
the fruits this yields.
"The christian God
is
made to declare:
"T create evil' (Isa. 45:7).
36 The Awakening
"T frame evil against you' (Jer. 18:11).
"And now your first visit to London is ended," and Cronus
disappeared.
The Doctor and Grub awakened as one, and sat looking,
one at the other, for some silent moments.
"What do you remember, Grub?" asked the Doctor.
"Everything; but we certainly saw mighty little of Lon
don," replied Grub, as he seized his materials and began to
rapidly record their experiences.
The Doctor thoughtfully walked toward his laboratory
door, but suddenly turned and said:
"Grub, I must interrupt you for a moment. I must get
this off my mind. I am deeply puzzled to understand just
why time should be personified and come into our work.
It is true, as he said, time knows all things; in fact, meas
ures all things, but, by what law does he become a person
ality clothed in the form of a man?"
"Doctor, you remember, when I ran out to the country
last summer for a short vacation, I took with me some books
on Greek and Italian mythology. I was greatly interested in
some of the mythological characters, especially Saturn. Now
that we are awakening a new faculty, I find a new light fall
ing upon the mythological science, for it is more a hidden
science than a religion. There is no doubt about the christian
religion having absorbed this concealed wisdom into its own
hidden system. Therefore, I have already put it down as
akin to gnosticism. I will briefly tell the story of Saturn.
"The most ancient divinities of the Greeks were of heaven
and earth.
"You recollect, Cronus said that he originally was Saturn.
Now, the god of heaven was Coelus, the father of Saturn.
Saturn was also called Uranus, meaning heaven. Terra was
the goddess of earth. Yet Uranus is named both son and
husband of Gaea, the goddess of the earth.
"As the Lord over the kingdom of the world, Saturn
assumes the name Chronos, signifying time. This now gives
us a reason why our good guide assumed the name Cronus
The Awakening 37
the ripener, the finisher, therefore he is the offspring of
Uranus.
"Jupiter, the son of Cronus, is named the father of gods
and men. He usurped the kingdom of Saturn, his father, who
fled to Italy, thus introducing the Greek mythology into Italy.
Saturn was kindly received in Italy by its king, Janus, the
son of Apollo, god of the sun. Who had two faces, one
looking into the past and the other into the future. Saturn
endowed Janus with extraordinary prudence, a knowledge of
future events, and a perpetual remembrance of the past.
"The first ten words in the Bible reveal a clean-cut intent
to imitate this Greek system, on the part of the christian en
terprise.
" Tn the beginning God created the heaven and the earth'
(Gen. 1:1).
"Both systems begin with heaven and earth, with the dif
ference that, the ecclesiasts pretend that their God supersedes
the Greek heaven and earth. In the ecclesiastic secret code :
"Heaven means ecclesiastical government.
"Earth means producing humanity.
"The name Ecclesia was plagiarized from the Greeks,
being the name of the legislative body ruling ancient Athens
centuries before the christian era.
"We know we have formed a contact with some living
mentation which seems to be striving for revelation, or for
human expression. If, as we previously agreed, our own
conscious mentation is but an embodied extension of a uni
versal intelligence, we are dealing with a living mentation,
striving to reveal the secrets of systems which are hamper
ing natural human progression on this earth.
"Cronus is the most logical agent it can reveal to help
us. This great medium speaks to us through our own sub
jective mind, and that is our spirit, and a part of the great
creative spirit."
"You are well advanced in this subject, Grub," said the
Doctor. "You give me food for thought," and the Doctor
left Grub to complete his record.
CHAPTER IV
"Grub, come in here. I have a problem for you," said
Doctor Heim, as he led the way into the library. His face
was serious and perplexed.
They seated themselves at the table and the doctor drew
a writing pad and pencil toward him, as though going to
write. Then he said:
"In the automatic writing you exhibited to me, I ob
served that you attempt to demonstrate four primary attri
butes of the creative process, naming them: the vibratory,
the gaseous, the solid, and the fluid.
"This globular body you name the electron, out of which
are born all the primary elements from which all material
bodies are created —named in their order, these elements seem
to be our well-known nitrogen, oxygen, carbon and hydrogen.
"These are gases which unite to form a primary electric
unit, which may be named the basic molecule of matter, a
whirling or spiral body.
"Now you say there is an intelligent, universal menta
tion, with which we may form an understanding contact, by
which we tap a reservoir of potential wisdom, an all-per
vading medium. I would like for you to explain your views
regarding this contact."
"Well, Doctor," began Grub, "you have indeed put before
me a mental task. I shrink from committing myself to some
obscure theory which may not be substantiated by accepted
scientific facts. I will, however, do my best.
"First, let us examine my waves. It goes without argu
ment, that the globular electron contains the potential forces,
as revealed by the waves, which start the creative process
of constructing material bodies. Apparently the four waves,
the vibratory, gaseous, solid and fluid, are released from the
electron, and register the progressive steps in this process,
which terminates in primary molecule. Matter cannot as
sume any other form or physical condition.
The Awakening 39
"I hold that the electron is the potential electric cell,
and the spiral is the spent magnetic cell, and the elemental
vibrations between the two reveal the creative process. This
suggests an electric spirit surrounded by a magnetic body.
"The electron is the egg out of which are born :
"Nitrogen, the extreme of cold, which begets oxygen,
heat, which begets carbon, dry, which begets hydrogen, moist.
Thus it is seen that, nitrogen is the release of the mother
principle, which is an essential part of every living structure
having the power of reproduction. I believe the whole secret
lies in nitrogen, expansive force—and that is life, which is
transmitted from body to body, by contact, till the force is
neutralized in the spiral cell. I believe the nitrogen atom
symbolizes the moon principle in nature.
"We can diagram the creation of this molecule, and its
development into a living cell, and prove that this life prin
ciple follows a cyclic process, and culminates in an organic
image.
"Look at this diagram :
Electron N. O. C. H. C. O. N. Potential
"You will observe that the same waves, which formed
the spiral, have backed out of the spiral to form the organic
cell. This being a reflection or image of the original electron—
a ring instead of a globule.
"Nitrogen is the beginning and nitrogen is the ending,
not in identical forms, but in principle.
"
'I am the beginning and the end' (Rev. 21 :6).
"I am again impressed with the belief, that, the wise pro
moters of the christian scheme were familiar with the gnostic
philosophy, by many such expressions found in the Bible.
"Observe, the positive ends of the waves, in both direc
tions, point toward the spiral. Clearly the waves from the
original electron are positive, in relation to the centre, hence
they are neutralized in the spiral. The reverse waves also
Ring
40 The Awakening
must be positive in their attitude. Now doubtless this process
endows the spiral with magnetic polarity.
"We have in this primary act, the first suggestion of
respiration. The mechanical principle of respiration is attrac
tion and repulsion, and that applies to every act of nourishing
the body.
"It is a fact that a magnetized body has the power to
transmit its forces, without weakening its own body, proving
that it is possessed of recuperative powers. This recupera
tion can only come to it through consecutive, positive waves,
hence it is from the universal pabulum. If this were not
true, the reaction would complete a fixed or crystallized body.
"One end of a magnet will produce a number of opposite
poles distributed about it in harmonious union.
"This is the origin of the family group. .
"Magnetic attraction and repulsion are not interfered with
by the interposition of non-magnetic substances.
"All magnetized bodies have a positive and negative pole.
It is upon this principle that we attract to us the elements of
our nourishment, and repel the excrements.
"Oxygen is magnetic, hence, we may assume that the
oxygen we derive from the atmosphere, by inhalation, may
be the connecting link which magnetizes the cells of the medul
lary matter of our cerebro-spinal nervous system, which comes
in direct contact with all the living tissues of the body.
"The brain-cells may be likened unto soap bubbles filled
with oxygen, which are highly magnetic.
"All the other gases in the atmosphere are non-magnetic,
therefore, we reject them by expiration. This is the excre
ment of respiration —carbon dioxide for example.
"There is a definite compensation in these acts, and we
have, here, an excellent example. Our solid excrements be
come the fertilizers for the development of vegetation. The
carbon dioxide, the excrement of respiration, becomes the
breath of vegetation, being absorbed by the leaves.
"Thus the lower organic creations live off the excrements
of the higher. Nevertheless, supplying the living substance for
The Awakening 41
the food of the higher, the earth being the axis of this com
pensating cycle.
"It is by this revolution that the evolution in organic life
slowly climbs.
"Nitrogen is electric, having the power to break up and
destroy magnetism, also to produce polarity, hence bodies are
often polarized by lightning coming from the higher regions,
demonstrating nitrogen as the original master power.
"The christian scheme betrays a gnostic understanding
of these natural phenomenon, by similitude.
"
'If any man come to me, and hate not his father and
mother, and wife and children, and brethren and sisters, he
cannot be my disciple' (Luke 14:26).
"Thus is the magnetic law, which binds the family to
gether, broken up and depolarized by the cold, nitrogenous,
godly influence of the greedy church.
"Another illustration of this nitrogeneous power to make
or mend is in the fact that a magnet can awaken polarity in
a body in contact by induction, without losing any of its own
power. On the contrary, electric bodies have the power both
to depolarize these bodies, or to surrender its own power to
another body, without depleting its own electrical source.
"Thus, nature raises up living bodies to serve a purpose,
then withdraws from them the life. This is the principle of
death, applying to physical, organic bodies.
"The atmosphere around our planet is a shield to pre
vent the living creatures from being submerged by the ex
ternal pabulum, which seeks every opportunity to reach the
earth.
"Any electrified body, upon forming a contact with the
earth, discharges its electricity into the earth, even seizing
upon any object attached to the earth, as a vehicle of trans
mission. Then all electrical disturbance ceases in its own
body. We observe an excellent example of this in the light
ning striking the tree, leaving a spiral sear upon its body as
the electric current passes into the earth.
"There is evidence that the earth attracts these ex
42 The Awakening
ternal assaults, but is incapable of controlling the resultant
elements until they are swallowed into its body. Moreover, the
external force which drives these living streams into our at
mosphere, is wholly indifferent to the results, hence : 'God is
no respecter of persons' (Acts 10:34). Another suggestion
that the ecclesia was familiar with the gnostic philosophy.
"But, there is a more practical reason for the attracting
of these primary elements to the earth. A large volume of
vegetation requires nitrogen for germination and growth. This
is well demonstrated by the legumens with their deep, sinu
ous roots covered with nitrogenous bacteria, and their pods —
beans, peas, etc.—elongated, and filled with their series of
rounded bodies, or seeds, a perfect living model of our nitro
genous wave.
"Here we have an extraordinary example of the creation
of living matter. The true life cells remain in darkness to
show that life begins in darkness, and the first form of or
ganic life seeks the surface and the light.
"All electrical disturbance seeks to annihilate itself in
the earth, the greater spiral.
"The christian scheme symbolizes mankind by the pro
ducing earth, and the church as the heavenly source of life.
We may see, by the foregoing, what a contemptible fraud
this pretense is. A fabulous personification cannot possibly
give the slightest natural power to an artificial, earthy or
ganization of men, who pose as superior beings over the earthy,
producing masses.
"Right here we have the positive evidence of duplicity.
We may clearly follow and trace every motion of nature, and
not one act even suggests a god of the character portrayed
by the fabulous christian god. Whereas we may identify the
natural forces and elements selected to represent the chris
tian characters. Furthermore, we have many evidences that
the christian system was borrowed from the Greek mythology,
which was borrowed from nature. For instance, the original
idea of the caduceus was drawn from the lightning entwin
ing itself about the body of the tree.
The Awakening 43
"Another evidence that all on earth is not directly sub
ject to the godly power, is seen in the fact that some substances
conduct electricity while other substances are non-conductors.
"The first idea of the nature of electricity was, that it
was an actual transfer of a substance called the 'electrical
fluid.'
"Fluidity suggests the progressive flow of the whole body,
therefore the modern theory is that the electric charge con
sists of a 'state of strain of the particles of an elastic medium,'
pervading all space, and interposed between the particles of
bodies. The discharge relieves the strain.
"Now, Doctor, I must apologize for my tedius lecture,
but with this before us we may come near to determining the
agent of contact between the human mind and the universal
source of life, even though some of our conclusions may be
far-fetched."
"Not necessarily," replied the Doctor. "I have followed
your story closely : tension or strain well describes the electric
accumulation which seeks discharge. These charges are caused
by friction, pressure vibration, perhaps all coming under chem
ical action. Therefore other elements are involved. Without
these arousing forces, electricity would remain dormant. Mo
tion, then, awakens the life generating forces. After all,
life is but the creative impulse seeking stability and rest in
a material personality, a body where it may be protected from
external irritations."
"It is astonishing how these things all seem to culminate
in a revelation of the christian imitation. This very readily
suggests the monastic privacy behind strong walls, to keep
away from earthy contacts. These selfish, self-deified men
pose as the refined godly forces," said Grub.
"A very apt suggestion," said the Doctor.
"I have observed that our trance state only exaggerates
the senses of seeing and hearing; in fact, the physical senses
seem to be in a state of suspense, which decidedly classes
the trance as a magnetic state, even to suspending physical
pain. Therefore our contact must occur in the field belong
44 The Awakening
ing to these senses, and that is the field of light and sound
vibrations. Moreover, seeing is much more acute in light than
hearing, while hearing is decidedly more acute than the sense
of seeing in darkness. Therefore there must be two mediums,
to which these two senses adjust themselves."
"Exactly true," said Grub, "for you can carve the flesh
from the body, while in the magnetic state, and no pain is
experienced. This naturally deprives the physical body also
of pleasure.
"Do you see what this reveals, Doctor? Our pains and
pleasures are not physical but mental, revealing that the seat
of all sensation is in the brain, hence : the physical body is but
an instrument to express them.
"
'The God of heaven revealeth the deep and secret things ;
he knoweth what is in the darkness, and the light dwelleth
with him' (Dan. 2:22).
"Nitrogen is that God, and Christ is that light.
" 'Ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude'
(Deut. 4:12).
"Now, Doctor, your differentiation of the mediums of
seeing and hearing is a wonderful revelation.
'"God is the word' (John 1:1).
" 'In him was life, and the life was the light of men'
(John 1:4).
"Nitrogen is the medium of hearing—darkness.
"Oxygen is the medium of seeing — revelation.
"Christ declares:
"'I am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
'"I am the way, and the life; no one cometh unto the
father, but by me' (John 14:6).
"Light and life are one.
"This is truly gnostic, for we may actually identify these
natural elements, and know their chemical functions. You may
now realize to what extent ecclesiasticism has deprived man
kind of a knowledge of the simplest truths of nature."
"But, Grub, contact implies a conjunction of two bodies,"
said the Doctor.
The Awakening 45
"Quite right," admitted Grub. "Chemical entities, men
tation is of a chemical nature. It is not difficult to determine
the character of these chemical atoms, and a reason for their
resultant effects.
"We have previously agreed that the potential electron is
globular, and the first magnetized molecule is spiral. The
globule, or electron, represents the potential or kinetic energy
to be released. The spiral represents the magnetic power of
attraction. Motion begets heat, and rapid oxygenation begets
light. This defines oxygen as the revealing power, the revela
tion of the word on earth, the spiral representing the earth.
"
'Christ manifests the word of God' (Rev. 19:13). There
fore oxygen is the revealing agent for the manifestation of
both seeing and hearing. Moreover, oxygen is life.
"Jesus declares: T and my father are one' (John 10:30).
"Jesus symbolizes the conversion of chemical light into
intelligence.
"Now, we may draw some marvelous deductions. Vision
is primarily an external contact with light. While hearing
is internally recorded. This is revealed by the spiral cochlea
of the ear for the transmission of sound vibrations to the
receptive brain centres to be interpreted into intelligent sounds,
and formed into words.
"The same applies to the globular form of the eye-ball.
"The outer contact is physical, and the inner contact is
mental. We cannot differentiate between these contacts, be
cause they are parts of one act. The proof of this is in the
fact that, if the brain be injured to prevent the functions of
interpreting centres, understanding ceases.
"The eye absorbs the globules or electrons and the ear
the spiral molecules, through the external sense organs. Like
adjust itself to like in the physical receiving organs, globule
to globe, and spiral to spiral. These primitive forms unite
in the brain centres to complete what? The atmosphere about
the microcosmic worlds, the material organic cells awaiting
to receive the 'holy ghost,' respiration. The brain is the store
house of universal wisdom to be interpreted into living struc
46 The Awakening
tures. All revelation is material and physical when trans
lated into knowledge, hence, 'thoughts are things'."
"What evidence have we that these atomic forms exist
in a state to perfect such material contacts," asked the Doctor.
"Well, this brings us to a realization that astronomy, chem
istry and physiology are branches of a single science. It is
astronomical processes which prepare out atmospheric pab
ulum. Shall I attempt to explain this?" said Grub.
"Certainly; let us couple up the parts while the subject
is fresh in our minds," responded the Doctor.
"It is very simple," began Grub. "The hot sun is the
source of positive energy, sent to the earth to awaken physical,
organic being.
"The sun also sends the same radiations to the moon,
a reflective body. The warm wave is converted into a cold
wave, and is reflected to the atmosphere of the earth, assum
ing the form of a circle. The direct rays, from the sun to
the earth, are converted into spirals, in the atmosphere. Thus
a union of these two waves is prevented. This explains why
our atmosphere is a mechanical mixture instead of a chemical
compound. It also reveals the principles which beget in the
planet, axial and orbital motion.
S, "It is j^gh agreed in astronomical research, that the moon
was cast off the side of the earth, and remains a satellite body,
as a helpmeet to the earth.
"In the ecclesiastical similitude, this figures the taking
from the side of the Adam a rib which God made a woman,
as a helpmeet to Adam. The crescent moon suggested this idea.
"This also suggested symbolizing producing mankind as
the earth. The moon becomes helpmeet to the earth.
"Very clearly we now understand why the moon is chosen
to represent the church, with Christ, light, as its head.
"In physiology this makes the heart the seat of physical
action, and the brain as the seat of meditation and menta
tion. God and Christ unite in the earth, and God rules through
the Christ principle.
"'God was manifest in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
The Awakening 47
"Is this the extent of your chemical action?" asked the
Doctor.
"Well, I must here introduce a theory of my own," re
plied Grub, "and you will be astonished that this will return
us again to our original beginning of this whole subject.
You remember that, while we had the contents of the blue
glass tube, and the water in our drinking jar, under discus
sion, we discovered the water was saturated with hydrogen
sulphide—formula SH2 = 34.
"Now, hydrogen sulphide burns with a blue flame and
forms water— OH2 = 18.
"I have concluded, in my own deductions, that the moon
was cast off the side of the earth while yet in its primitive
state. Sulphur was one of the earliest chemical elements
formed. The original formation was of the character of sul
phur, and the side of this planet away from the sun was a
body of crystallized hydrogen sulphide. The casting off of
this body was the beginning of axial motion on the part of
the earth, and orbital motion of both earth and moon.
"When crystallized hydrogen sulphide is super-heated, it
emits blue flames and forms water—OH2 = 18. It is at once
seen, that the residue, 16, is oxygen. Thus it seems possible
that the atom of oxygen found in our atmosphere, also is
released by the reflected influence of the moon, and we know
that, potentially, oxygen carries the undeveloped carbon wave
and hydrogen spiral.
"In the christian scheme, it is the church which brings
Christ to the earthy people.
"The church does not intend that the people shall be
blessed by the direct sunlight, but the sunlight censored by
the moon. This fully explains the reason for the world being
cast into the darkness of ignorance for a thousand years,
that the church might censor education and measure knowl
edge.
"Darkness means misery, oppression, ignorance.
"Light means joy, prosperity, knowledge.
"They seek credit for bringing light to the world, mak
48 The Awakening
ing human intelligence an artificial thing, to be measured
out to mankind. Moon, in the ecclesiastic code, means meas
urer.
"The natural, normal, gnostic wisdom is not a gift, it is
a part of the living process. No superstitions, religious fa
naticism attaches to it. Religion is an artifice, imposed upon
ignorance, to bind the people in slavery.
"That which nature intends we shall have, we must
assimilate as our normal nourishment, each his due propor
tion, or fall short of nature's purposes, and suffer the con
sequences. This we call disease.
"If we are deprived of the faculty of interpretation by
traditional education, we develop imperfectly and fail to ful
fill the mission for which we are created, and that mission is
to cultivate wisdom to be absorbed into the universal pabulum,
an abstract and formless entity. All systems in nature are
cultivated for the fruits they bear, and the character of that
fruit may not be changed by artifice with impunity."
"Wait a moment, Grub," said the Doctor. "You are
wandering too far away from the main issue. Where did
you get all this? It is not to be found in our textbooks."
"I suggest, Doctor, that we adjourn this sitting until I
may get together my automatic writings and drawings to dem
onstrate my lecture," said Grub.
"Very good, Grub, we will take it up tomorrow morn
ing," replied the Doctor. "But let us keep well in mind the
suggestion that spiritual forms are ever present in the at
mosphere, or at least in the universal pabulum, seeking to
reveal themselves in material bodies, or to materialize through
embodied mentation."
CHAPTER V
On the following morning Grub took from his own pri
vate cabinet his writings and drawings, and placed them in
order upon the table. Soon thereafter the Doctor entered.
"There it is, Doctor. Automatic writings and drawings
of universal subjects.
I
can demonstrate by these, that man
kind has been wilfully and premeditatedly deprived of the
exercise of its greatest natural endowment, universal mental
contact, and thought in common.
"Originally this was due to
a
desire to confiscate this
contact with traditional wisdom, on the part of selfish, de
signing men, that the gift might be offered as
a
bribe to draw
the people into
a
shielding organization called the christian
church.
"They desired to usurp the power and authority to de
base the lower classes of men in ignorance and oppression,
as a means of controlling the world. But, because of
a
gross
misuse of these powers, and the dissolute lives they lived,
they failed, themselves, to perfect the universal contact, and
dropped into
a
beastly earthy, imbecilic state, and plunged
the greater humanity into abject ignorance, to conceal the
truth, and escape the curse of mankind.
"Your enthusiasm amazes me, Grub," exclaimed the Doc
tor. "You talk like a veteran philosopher. Whatever started
you on this strange, but deeply interesting, subject?"
"Doctor, you said the substance of my work may not be
found in our text books. If there
is
any logic, or new scien
tific revelations in
it,
that proves my theory of the suppres
sion of gnosticism. It
is
true, only by accident may any book
referring to this subject in
a
broad and instructive way, be
found exposed for public reading in public libraries. For some
unaccountable reason, such works are slipped into secret places
where only select readers may have access to them. In our
college library
I
came upon
a
book entitled 'The Resurrec
tion.' It purported to be an inspired volume, reviving the orig
49
50 The Awakening
inal gnostic wisdom. You know it is an historical fact, that
it required five hundred years for the ecclesiasts to suppress
gnosticism. The fact that a thousand years of ignorance
(486 to 1495) followed, is ample evidence of the intent and
purpose of this blasphemous thing. To the shame of the kings
and rulers of the nations, they were as ignorant as their own
subjects, being able neither to read nor write.
"This condition wholly eradicated the possibility of hu
man contact with universal mentation, the original intent of
nature. The ecclesiastical usurpers had a holy fear of a
thought in common, which would expose their fraud upon
cultivated credulity. Mental training was wholly suppressed,
and mankind was subjected to physical training, and cruel
restraints and discipline, and named the earthy producing
masses, and enslaved to the production of carnal and material
things for the use and aggrandizement of the nonproducing,
ruling classes, with the visible results about us. Crime, im
becility, and poverty, have been well organized 'for the fruits
they yield.'
"The book, 'The Resurrection,' gave to me an inspiration
which I had never had before, with extraordinary results."
"Well, Grub, there will be greater glory in restoring hu
man contact with the gnostic wisdom, than there was in the
unmerciful work of destroying it. I am now convinced of the
truth that ecclesiasticism did destroy gnosticism, and attempt
to usurp its wisdom. When awakened, humanity will curse
the ecclesiasts from the face of the earth." And the Doctor
betrayed unusual emotion.
"You used a most significant word, Doctor, 'usurp.' I
do not know if I have told you that usurpation was the origin
of the christian church, as proven by the ecclesiastic code.
"Jacob means to supplant, to usurp by force or trickery.
"Jacob named the church Bethel (Gen. 28).
"Bethel means the house of God.
"God named Jacob Israel.
"Israel is the church of Christ.
"Now, Doctor, we may settle this problem for good and
The Awakening 51
all. Here is the best authority in the world on the origin
and meaning of biblical words and names.
"The analysis of the word Israel is a revelation.
"Is means the light—ra means the sun—el means first
cause.
"The light of the sun is the first cause of all. Christ
declares :
"'I am the light of the world' (John 8:12)."
"Must we conclude, then, that our atmosphere contains,
or rather is the medium, of our contact, or merger?" asked
the Doctor.
"Yes, this is the coming of the holy ghost, which they
admit is the breath, respiration. We breathe nitrogen and
oxygen from our atmosphere, and they perfect our brain cells,
making of them little planets, by giving them an atmosphere
to breathe.
"The living products of our planet reflect the universal
wisdom, the forms being created in the universal mentation
before they are revealed in material bodies.
"
'And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew' (Gen. 2:5).
"The same process applies to organic bodies ; the physical
cells are suggested in the mind before they are made material
cells in the body. The digestive process forms the material
body, and the mind surrounds it with an atmosphere, giving
it a spiritual body.
"
'There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body'
(1 Cor. 15:44).
"With the coming of the atmosphere, the holy ghost be
comes the revealing power, and light means life.
"
'In him was life; and the life was the light of men'
(John 1:4).
"We know the nitrogen wave carries potentially, within
itself, the oxygen wave.
"The atmosphere consists of nitrogen and oxygen, there
for, the God principle is in the nitrogen of our atmosphere,
and the Christ principle is in the oxygen.
52 The Awakening
"When these are inhaled into our system the God takes
his seat in heaven, the brain, and Christ passes into the earth,
the body, to give life and light to the living tissues.
"By concentration we create a vacuum, and flood our
brains with the all-wise nitrogen atoms, which cast into the
mind the universal light which reveals all. We may select
from it that which we desire, to assimilate as mental food,
independent of the bodily process, as the desire of the body
selects the material food from a miscellaneous mass, for its
nourishment. This is the law of selectivity.
"Thus the spiritual body selects its own nourishment,
and, according to the law of nature, gives in exchange an ex
crement for the nourishment of the material body, and that
excrement is the light and life in oxygen.
"This planet is but the excrement of some greater body,
and we are but living cells belonging to it as a part of its
living tissues.
"An analysis of our whole body reveals every secret of
the greater, or microcosmic body.
"Now, if this be true, the atomic planets which our
primary elements construct, know all, up to the limit of their
absorption, and they have the propogating power to multiply
themselves to absorb endless wisdom, as the magnet has the
power to attract and establish about itself multiple similar
bodies.
"The whole process is in attraction and repulsion, inspira
tion and expiration, assimilation and elimination, mental as
well as physical.
"In our astronomical similitude, the brain is the moon
of our microcosm, and it is a receiving and reflecting body,
receiving light radiated from all the other illuminated bodies
in the same system, and perhaps other systems. This poten
tial light is our mental food, sent into our brain for diges
tion, and then to be distributed through the nervous system,
ramifying our whole body, to give light and life to the cells,
that they may intelligently perform their normal functions.
"While concentrating, our physical demand for light is
The Awakening 53
temporarily suspended, in order to appropriate larger quanti
ties of oxygen for mental purposes. Again we may observe
nature striving to enlighten us by example. The moon, which
reflects to our atmosphere our planetary wisdom, alternates
between light and darkness, as though to permit this planet
to recuperate from a period of absorption, and to assimilate
the elements drawn from the influences of the moonlight.
"Hence, we may conclude there is a cold potential light,
and a warm active light, 'the one to rule by night and the
other to rule by day.' These are the greater light and the
lesser light of Genesis 1 :16.
"The fact that God placed these fixed lights in heaven,
proves they are the sun and moon, which, in the code, sym
bolize the civil government and the church. With producing
mankind as the earth.
"What is the chemical process involved in this transfusion
of an excess of nitrogen?" asked the Doctor.
"It is a normal, chemical process, and a creative oper
ation," replied Grub. "Let us examine the new combinations
formed.
"You, doubtless, have observed that carbon and hydro
gen seem to take minor parts in this mental process. Never
theless, they are absolutely essential to complete the cyclic
process, and they are the foundation elements in material
structures. Therefore, in the chemical processes we should
find concealed the primary structural elements.
"We have seen that the original series of waves cannot
regurgitate back through each other, each atom having its
own specific wave differing from the others.
Electron Nitrogen Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen
"Therefore combinations are in like manner progressive.
See what follows:
"Oxygen 16 -f- carbon 12 = silicon 28.
54 The Awakening
"Nitrogen 14 -j- oxygen 16 + hydrogen 1 = phosphor
ous 31.
"Nitrogen 14 + oxygen 16 -f- carbon 12 + hydrogen
1 = 43, the primary cell which is the beginning of both vege
table and animal life.
"Thus the very primary formations are the logical and
essential elements for the construction of organic beings.
"It is a self-evident truth, that some mental power pre
determines the form before the physical body is created.
Otherwise the formation of bodies would be haphazard.
"This gnostic idea of images suggested to the ecclesiasts
the idea of the spiritual body. Moreover this reveals the
necessity for making the Adam, a natural body, precede Adam
the spiritual (1 Cor. 15:46).
"
'The first man is of the earth, earthy ; the scond man
the Lord from heaven' —the body and spirit.
"An understanding of these mysteries is the awakening
of the sixth sense."
"Grub," said the Doctor, "this has been a most edifying
and entertaining lecture. Let us now rest and digest it," to
which Grub assented.
CHAPTER VI
"Doctor," said Grub, "I have outlined a lesson which
will be a guide for our examination of Biblical similitudes. I
am quite sure you will approve of the theory involved, and
that you will feel no regret that you forego your proposed
return to London."
"I am pleased to listen, Grub," said the Doctor, and Grub
began his lecture.
"Gnosticism is the foundation of all human knowledge.
Gnosis means to know.
"All human systems must be based upon the original
wisdom taught by developing nature, and brought down
through the ages by tradition.
"Mythology is the personification of natural causes and
effects, and a grateful acknowledgment of heroic acts of men.
"Ecclesiasticism is a purposeful concealment of the gnos
tic wisdom, and the wilful plagiarization of the principles of
the leading previous religions, for selfish ends.
"The christian church is but a shield for ecclesiastic
intrigues and duplicity.
"Expanding humanity is the burden bearer, and producer,
under the intolerant, fanatical christian despotism.
"We may begin with the heaven as planetary-worship,
with its many gods. This was succeeded by Egyptian sun-
worship, with the Pharaoh as the sun-king —the earthy vicar.
"With the discovery of fire came fire-worship, with the
patriarch as father and high priest.
"Abraham came out of ur, fire.
"I must comment here :
"
'Call no man your father upon the earth' (Matt. 23:9).
"Yet we read:
"'Abraham who is the father of us all' (Rom. 4:16)
"The name Abraham means the father of a multitude. ,
"This might appear to be a contradiction, but it is an
55
56 The Awakening
exposure, for an analysis reveals Ab = father, ra = high,
ham = hot.
"The high hot father. The sun—the heat of the sun.
"The same applies to 'David, the father of Jesus Christ'
(Matt. 1:1).
"David means carnal love.
"Is there no evidence of fraud in this contradictory
tommy-rot? These characters, like Jesus Christ, are preached
literally to the ignorant masses.
"Gnosticism, by thought and reason, deified wisdom and
knowledge, as a reflective form of the worship of nature.
"Mythology deifies its heroes into hero-worship.
"Ecclesiasticism plagiarized all these into man-worship,
concealed in symbolisms, personifications, and mystery, known
only to the chosen few.
"
'But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery' ( 1
Cor. 2:7).
"Jesus said unto his disciples :
" 'It is given unto you to know the mysteries of the king
dom of heaven, but to them (the people) it is not given.
"
'For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he
shall have more abundance; but whosoever hath not, from
him shall be taken away even that he hath' (Matt. 13:11, 12).
"
'And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests' (Exo
dus 19:6).
" 'That the living may know that the most high (the head
of the ecclesia) ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth
it to whomsoever he will' (Dan. 4:17).
" 'The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of his Christ' (Rev. 11:15).
"Now, Doctor, we know, beyond any necessity for dis
pute, that this christian God and Lord, and this Christ, are
but figurative things, although preached literally, therefore this
impudent attitude of ecclesiasticism is but a part of a well
defined assault upon the greater humanity, and its natural
rights to rule, guide and regulate itself through its self-chosen
governments.
The Awakening 57
"When the United States was founded, a weak attempt
was made to Overcome this horrid usurpative enemy of men,
which already held the temporal power over European nations.
But, this land was quickly filled with its trained militant mobs,
drawn from other nations, the refuse of civilized Europe, and
the secret agencies of the church to guide them.
"The unqualified voting franchise was turned against
those who desired to build here a model nation.
"Behold the result: crime, imbecility, ignorance, selfish
ness, greed, hatred, and contempt for all that is just, right
and decent, are running amuck in the land, and millions are
mentally and physically starving. Yet we dare criticize other
nations.
"And this is mystery-worship.
"The better combination is:
"Ignorance, superstition, and fear.
"The true mystery is the gnostic revelation. We shall
uncover in our analysis of the scientific research into astron
omy, chemistry and physiology, as expounded by the tradi
tional, gnostic philosohpy.
"This will be our revelation.
"The human body is a reflection of our planetary system.
"Tradition rests wholly upon the past, else we might
extend the likeness into the universal system. The living body
amazingly reveals the planetary body with its parts and their
functions.
"In the study of anatomy, for our purpose in this com
parison, we need only examine three principles, the sun, the
moon and the earth.
"These three planetary bodies are most conspicuous in
the ecclesiastic similitudes.
"The sun, radiating and objective.
"The moon, mediating and reflective.
"The earth, a receptive body and subjective.
"These are the principal elements in the ecclesiastical
exploitation. We shall compare these with centres of activi
ties in the human body. It is truly a revelation.
58 The Awakening
The Head
The Thorax
The Abdomen
The Pelvis
Seat of God
Seat of Christ
Seat of Man
Seat of the Female
Principle in Man
"Woman is always belittled in the Bible.
"
'Who can find a virtuous woman?' (Prov. 31 :10).
"Every living woman should resent such aspersions.
"
'I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart
is snares and nets, whoso pleaseth God shall escape from
her; but the sinner shall be taken by her' (Ecc. 7:26).
"Truly, this makes woman a hellish snare for men.
"Even Jesus repudiated his own alleged mother.
"'Jesus saith unto her (his mother), woman, what have
I to do with thee' (John 2:4).
"
'I suffer not a woman to teach nor to usurp authority
over man, but to be in silence' (1 Tim. 2:12).
"Now, why did the churches close their eyes to this,
in the United States, and enfranchise women to vote, and
do all that men do? For the simple reason that the woman's
vote has been subsidized. They have taken mean advantage
of the very weaknesses they have condemned in women. Wo
men vote practically as a body or unit.
"Now, any woman who will permit a foul minded preacher
or greasy, fat priest to smear over her, and take liberties with
The Awakening 59
her person, is unfit to associate with decent, self-respecting
people.
"The 'confessional' is the most criminal thing existing
in the churches. It gives secret opportunity for priestly in
trigues, and helps to conceal endless acts which the laws
forbid. There is not one confessional priest who is not legally
party to endless crimes through a guilty knowledge, obtained
through the confessional, from superstitious offenders. No
matter how trivial, or how great, what legal authority has
the priest to try and acquit those who have secretly violated
the law?
"We will now continue with our gnostic work.
"Again referring to the diagram :
"In the human anatomy, each of the centres reveals a
remarkable similarity with the planetary principles, each of
the central active organs having its moon as represented by
a secondary organ acting in the same associated capacity as
the moon, measuring and regulating the functions.
"The cerebellum, the fore-brain, seat of mentation.
"The heart —lungs, seat of respiration.
"The stomach —liver, seat of digestion.
"The kidneys—bladder, seat of elimination.
"This is an excellent internal reflection of planetary op
erations, revealing that the ecclesiasts recognized this moon
principle as the regulating power, else they would not have
coded the moon as 'the measurer.'
"The external man is earthy and active.
"The head with its face and teeth.
"The thorax with its arms and hands.
"The abdomen and pelvis, with legs and feet.
"The legs and feet lead to the game.
"The arms and hands seize and hold it.
"The face censors it and the teeth masticate it.
"It is seen this process precedes digestion and assimila
tion, which are internal operations. Hence the external man
is the go-getter, or producer, in so far as the procuring of
food is concerned.
(>0 The Awakening
"Gnostic revelation clearly defines these agents as the
essential structures of the physical man, as differentiated
from the organic man —internal.
"Flesh, muscle, bone and marrow.
"As a remarkable truth, each of these material struc
tures is accompanied by its moon.
"The flesh the cerebro-spinal nervous system.
"The muscles the sympathetic nervous system.
"The bone, the marrow.
"It must be observed that the union of the male and
female principle in man is always present when man is named.
The bone symbolizes the man.
"
'God created man in his own image, male and female
created he them' (Gen. 1:27). This is another evidence of
plagiarism from the gnostic wisdom.
"The blood and lymph form another pair, permeating
the whole system by their distributive functions.
"These are the two rivers between which is Mesopotamia,
meaning abundance.
"The whole process may be summed up in three words:
thought, speech and action.
"The seat of thought is in the head.
"The seat of speech is in the thorax.
"The seat of action is in the abdomen.
"These are primarily actuated by the necessity for nour
ishment.
"Breath, bread and fluid.
"We may readily find the source of all our nourishment.
"Breath from the atmosphere.
"Bread from the earth.
"Fluid from the waters.
"The digestion of these products is the preparation, an
alysis, and interpretation of elements to be distributed and
assimilated for the construction and maintenance of the es
sential tissues of the physical man.
"The blood and the lymph are the distributing agents, their
visible systems being the physical highways for such distribu
The Awakening 61
tion, the white corpuscles for the flesh, and the red corpuscles
for the muscles. .
"Both of these tissues make deposits in the bones, as the
whole body deposits its excrements upon the surface of the
earth, to fertilize the soil as food for vegetation, on the
theory that every system receives as its nourishment the excre
ments of the next higher system.
"This is the basis for the doctrine of the resurrection of
the human body, after rotting in the grave.
"
'So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown
in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dis
honor; it is raised in glory.
" 'It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body.
There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body' (1
Cor. 15).
"This has reference to the dead repulsive deposits of the
excrements of living bodies. They pass through a chemical
process which again associates the elements in the cycle of
living matter. Physical nature lives by this rejuvinating pro
cess. The excrements of every system is but the tribute paid
to the system which produces and nourishes
it.
"The mot contemptible attitude toward humanity as
sumed by the church
is,
that all who will not pay tribute to
it,
and become assimilated into its body, must be treated as
an excrement, to be cast into a fiery furnace, as chaff and
tares. Fifty millions of people have been thus sacrificed.
"
'The field
is
the world
;
the good seed are the children
of the kingdom
;
but the tares are the children of the wicked.
"
'The tares, and all things that offend are cast into the
furnace and burned' (Matt. 13).
"This
is
a
devilish thing. Doctor. This murderous pre
tender presumes to destroy all things
it
cannot control.
"'The harvest
is
the end of the world' (Matt. 13:39).
"This
is
the time of burning.
"Back in the middle centuries,
a
time was set for the 'end
of the world,' and preparations were made to execute this
damnable thing. Even public documents made provision for
62 The Awakening
this end, such was the state of ignorance into which all the
people had been trained. This finally culminated in that awful
carnage of humanity, under the murderous inquisition, in
which fifty millions of innocent lives were sacrificed to the
fanatical church, the greater number being burned as 'chaff'
and 'tares.'
"This was deliberately conceived, preached and executed
by insane fools who attempted to fulfill these murderous sug
gestions in the Bible.
"The ecclesiasts knew the gnostic truth, that this earth,
itself, in its own raw state, was an excrement from some other
planetary body, sown in corruption, and its living products
are the glorious resurrection of newly created living bodies,
with mankind as the crowning glory. The separation of human
beings, capable of assimilating the traditional gnostic wisdom,
from natural contacts, by crushing them down into abject
ignorance, was a crime against nature and man. The false-
pretense of education, to conceal this crime, is compounding
the original felony. The men who sit in high places, posing
as gods, or vicars of gods, know the truth, therefore, they are
the meanest criminals this earth ever produced.
"The whole creative process demands a protected unit
system. The undeniable evidence of this is glaringly revealed
by the individual cells of all living matter.
"Ecclesiasticism struggles to crush the greater humanity
into a plastic mass, to be ruled and controlled by a rigid,
unyielding discipline, which destroys independent freedom,
and personal liberty intended by nature. All nature lives by
alternating expansion and contraction, a respiration which
carries to each individual unit cell its due portion of an equal
ized distribution of life-giving energy. Man should be culti
vated by the same process.
"Unnatural restraint angers all nature, and drives man
kind mad.
"
'The law maketh wrath ; for where no law is there is
no transgression' (Rom. 4:15).
"Is this why this nation is smothered under a blanket of
The Awakening 63
criminal laws? So many that not even the federal govern
ment can enumerate them? Never pausing to consider that
each new law imposes a greater burden upon the people, and
adds a new class of criminals to the appalling list.
"This creation of evil and crime is a definite part of a
scheme to legislate all men into crime.
"
'Now we know that what things soever the law saith,
it saith to them who are under the law ; that every mouth
may be stopped and all the world may become guilty' (Rom.
3:19).
"Free speech must be throttled, and all men must be
made criminals, that the influence of the church may become
a bribe to draw the people into the confessional for secret
forgiveness for a price. The confessional usurps the pre
rogatives of the law.
"The original intent of nature was to culminate a per
fected humanity, with a thought in common, and so well
poised as individual cells, which could not aspire to depart
from their own orbits, which gave them the freedom to which
they were entitled by their functions, that conflict could not
arise in the body. The human body itself is witness to this
great truth.
"Ecclesiasticism conceived the idea of so harassing man
kind by laws, that a promise of relief would drive all men
into the church.
'"Christ is the end of the law' (Rom. 10:4).
"
'The law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ'
(Gal. 3:24).
"Christ is the catholic church, with its confessional.
"This idea of the power of the law ending at the church
door was actually made a fact in English law by the law
called the 'benefit of clergy.' One under the protection of
the church, even though guilty of the foulest crimes, was de
fended by his priest. By reading the 'neck verse,' the first
verse of the 51st Psalm, he was branded in the hand and
released to the church. Thus men became branded slaves of
the church. It was a simple matter for one bent on crime
64 The Awakening
to commit this simple 'neck verse' to memory in advance
of the crime. Upon being released the criminal confessed
his crime, paid his tribute, and was made whole by forgive
ness by the priest.
"Now, Doctor, I have a shock for you.
"The endless criminal laws are bringing humanity in to
be finger-printed, which was invented after the 'benefit of
clergy' which branded its victims.
"Right now, strong pressure is being brought to finger
print whole communities, the most outrageous insult to a
nation of people ever conceived by dirty skunks gone mad
with power.
"Read this and blush, or curse, or both. It is a church
proposition to brand the nation.
"
'And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and
poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand,
or in their foreheads;
"
'And that no man might buy or sell, save he that hath
the mark' (Rev. 13:16, 17)."
"My God ! Grub, stop !" And the Doctor clinched his
hands and passed out of the room to give vent to his sup
pressed emotions.
The suggestion of placing all the decent, self-respecting
people on a par with registered criminals was the final stroke,
he afterwards told Grub. It put murder in his own heart
at a single stroke. That which touched the flesh of man
without his consent, was an assault upon "God manifested
in the flesh."
"What has become of true manhood ?" exclaimed the agi
tated Doctor.
"You may extend that also to what man puts inside of
himself" said Grub to the Doctor.
"
'Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink'
(Col. 2:16).
"I have one more demonstration, Doctor, before we lay
aside this subject. It demonstrates the earthy man, the skel
eton, as absolutely essential to the support, protection and
The Awakening 65
integrity of the body. It is at once guardian and protector
of the whole man.
"The skull protects the brain.
"The spinal column protects the spinal cord and nerves.
"The ribs and other thoracic bones protect the heart
and lungs.
"The long bones of the limbs especially are servants of
the body.
"The fingers and toes have their special functions.
"Again we observe the inevitable control by our consecu
tive waves en masse.
"Flesh, muscles, bones and marrow — Shem, Japheth,
Ham.
"Ham caught old Noah drunk and found him naked.
For this, Ham was made a servant to the flesh and muscles,
carrying all the burdens of the body. Ham is Canaan,
meaning merchandising and trading, which carry all the bur
dens of civil exchanges."
CHAPTER VII
"Grub, we must get away from that christian stuff for
a while. It is the most irritating subject I ever encountered.
Suppose we travel a bit for a change. I'd like to wander about
a while with our old pal Cronus," and the Doctor looked
smilingly at Grub.
"That suits me exactly," replied Grub, cheerfully.
They again sat concentrated, hand in hand, anticipat
ing a visit to London.
"Ah ! here we are, Grub, but where is Cronus ?" exclaimed
the Doctor.
"Johnnie on the spot," answered Cronus, as he bobbed
up. "You can't escape time, sleeping or waking, he is your
most faithful companion."
"That suggests a question," said the Doctor. "Why is
the name John Bull applied to the English nation?"
"Well, there is no particular merit in the name," replied
Cronus. "It is nothing more than a satire, originating in a
story called the 'History of John Bull,' written by Dr. Ar-
buthnot, but erroneously credited to Swift. The French nation,
in this same work, is personified as Lewis Baboon; and the
Dutch as Nicholas Frog. That is why we call a Dutchman
a 'Frog,' a Frenchman a 'Monkey' and an Englishman a
'Bull,' and it isn't so far wrong at that.
"In this connection I might as well give you a lesson on
the name John, for sooner or later this name will arise again.
The h in this name is a remnant of its ancient form Johannes,
or Johanan, which, in the ecclesiastical code, signifies mag
nanimity.
"Jo = increased, hanan = mercy. The name was first
contracted to Johan, meaning God's gift. The custom of ab
breviating this to Jno is very ancient. The name was alter
nately written Jhon and John, the h frequently assuming the
form of n. Jhon contracted into Jho, the letter h changed to
n became Jno.
The Awakening 67
"The name John is associated with many important hu
man things. John foretold the coming of Jesus Christ, but
this God was not powerful enough to keep John's head on his
shoulders. John is the surname of Barleycorn, a great friend
to humanity.
"But, the meanest use to which the name was ever put,
is to fake evidence to pad weak places in criminal prosecu
tions.
"
'John Doe' and his pal 'Richard Roe' are well-known
fictitious witnesses in cases too weak to hold water. Magna
Charta demanded two witnesses to justify indictment, and
since the reign of Edward III (1327) the fictitious names,
'John Doe' and 'Richard Roe' are put into writs as pretended
witnesses, to comply with the law requiring two witnesses to
convict. The same privilege is not granted the defendant in
modern usage.
"But, have you spiritual travelers decided upon any par
ticular place or object you would prefer to visit?" and Cronus
beamed kindly upon them.
"What about the tower, Grub?" asked the Doctor.
"That suits me, but while we are here in view of
it,
couldn't we have
a
little lecture on the old bridge?" replied
Grub.
"Sure. I'm glad you mentioned
it.
Give us
a
brief
sketch of this world-renowned bridge, 'London Bridge'," said
the Doctor.
"The word bridge has long been
a
popular word. The
polite term
is
pontoon, which means way or path over some
treacherous chasm; hence Jesus says:
'I
am the way' (Jno.
14:6) and the pope of Rome, as the vicar of Christ,
is
called
the pontiff —meaning the only way
a
man may tumble into
hell, or burglarize heaven. The brief story of 'London Bridge'
is:
"The first bridge— 978.
"The second bridge—1014. Partly burned in 1136.
"The late old bridge was commenced about 1176, by Peter
Colechurch, and completed in 1209, with houses on each side,
68 The Awakening
connected together by large arches of timber which crossed
the street. July, 1212, a fire at the southward end attracted
large crowds upon the bridge. The north end caught fire,
preventing their escape ; three thousand persons were either
killed, burned or drowned.
"The bridge restored in 1300, again was destroyed by
fire in 1471, also in 1632, and September, 1725.
"In 1756 all the houses were pulled down.
"Waterworks begun 1582, destroyed by fire 1774.
"The toll was discontinued March 27, 1782.
"In 1822, John Rennie and his two sons, John and George,
contracted to build the great bridge. The first pile was driven
in 1824, March 15. The first stone was laid by the lord
mayor, Alderman Garratt, June 15, 1825.
"The bridge opened by William IV and his queen, August
1, 1831. It cost 506,000 £, about $2,500,000.
"On March 17, 1859, there passed over London Bridge
20,498 vehicles (4,483 were cabs and 4,286 were omnibuses),
and 167,910 persons (107,074 on foot, 60,836 in vehicles)."
"Some bridge !" exclaimed Grub. "I wonder how many
trillions have passed over it since."
"Now, Cronus, that was surely interesting. Let us see
'London Tower'," said the Doctor.
"Fortunately you are not hampered by time or distance,
so here we are," said Cronus. "We will start at the very
beginning of the history of the Tower, which will expand as
we discuss, and cuss, the bloody place. England records her
history in blood and cruelty, having graduated under the tute
lage of the popes of Rome."
They were viewing the great homely pile from a vantage
point. It resembled a gnarled, old witch, glowering down upon
them. Cronus now began his lecture,
"There are conflicting stories about the development of
'London Tower.' Anciently, it was a royal palace, consisting
of no more than what is now called the white tower, which
was designed by William the Conqueror, 1076. Work upon
its erection began 1078, and was completed, by his son Wil
The Awakening 69
Ham Rufus, who, in 1098, surrounded it with walls, and a
broad, deep ditch. King Edward III, 1327, built the church.
In 1638 the white tower was rebuilt; and after the restora
tion of King Charles II, it was thoroughly repaired, and a
great number of additional buildings made to it.
"It is not interesting to view the whole interiors. Here
are the armory and jewel buildings, both interesting and in
structive; also the museum.
"Doubtless you are interested in the gruesome history of
the horrid prison portions. The villainous, political intrigues
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in England shame
lessly sacrificed the best blood of the nation. Not alone by
pretended legal executions but by the most atrocious, cold
blooded murders. The stones of this structure are saturated
with innocent blood. Such a crime was the persecution and
execution of Sir Walter Raleigh, a perfectly innocent victim
of hellish hate and intrigue.
"Ah! here is something interesting," and Cronus paused
and drew their attention to a large bronze plate set into the
wall, on which was inscribed in old English :
"
'Foundation of the Tower
"
'The Tower of London was builded by Belinus Magnus,
of whose name the haven (Billings Gate, the great fish market
of London) continueth the memorye to this daye; but Lyd-
gate, the monk, ascribes it to Julius Caesar. Howsoever that
be, true it is that William Redd walled it round about what
time he layed the foundation of Westminster Halle'."
Now they passed on, until Cronus again paused.
"Now we are standing in the identical cell occupied by
Sir Walter Raleigh. Would you like to hold a limited inter
view with him?"
"We surely would," exclaimed the Doctor in eager sur
prise.
"You are now in the presence of Sir Walter Raleigh.
In a moment his image will become clearer. His spirit, which
is now submerged in the great universal mind, may be re
70 The Awakening
called to this cell, which held it prisoner for fourteen years,
as long as this stone body remains standing."
"Ah ! yes, from my beloved America ; my Virginia, per
haps," was Sir Walter's cordial greeting.
"I expected to see you without a head, my dear Sir Wal
ter," said the Doctor.
"No, not yet. I have been tried, convicted, and con
demned, but I am hopeful of prolonging my life for a while.
I am negotiating with my royal sovereign (James I, crowned
July 25, 1603) to make one more journey into America in
search for gold. I presume our good Cronus has advised you
that this is now the year 1603. I must leave to his discretion
whether or not you shall be advised of circumstances sub
sequent to that date. The truth that you now confront me
reveals the wonderful truth that you have formed a contact
with the greater mind, while your bodies yet breathe, else
we could not be visible to each other. It is your own living
state which reassembles images of previous forms; such me-
diumship is now extremely rare. Through your presence I
am granted a return to conscious being. I am most glad to
have greeted you."
"Sir Walter, I am deeply interested in what you have
just said. May I ask what is your mental state when you are
not thus reunited to mortal beings?" said the Doctor.
"It is very simple," replied Sir Walter. "Utter submer
sion, an unconscious state. You become the medium through
which I temporarily become a conscious entity, sensing and
visioning forms and conditions with which I was familiar
in life. Your own contact with universal consciousness is the
medium, this being made possible by your own living bodily
contact. And now I must leave you," and the apparition dis
appeared.
The Doctor and Grub looked at each other in alarm. It
came near to recalling them from their waking trance, but
Cronus brought them back with his interesting words.
"Sir Walter Raleigh had been put upon trial, and con
victed of high treason, on November 17, 1603, but was not
The Awakening 71
executed till October 29, 1618, he having remained in prison
for fourteen years, when the king sent him upon an expedi
tion to Guiana. He was executed upon his return, through
the intrigues of his Spanish, jesuit enemy."
After a blank of a few moments Cronus said, impres
sively :
"I am now going to give you a shock which will forever
associate your memory of the Tower of London with horror
and disgust. You are soon to witness the execution of one
of the finest characters England ever produced, the wholly
innocent Sir Walter Raleigh, the victim of the politico-re
ligious fanaticism of his period. A baser set of men than
those in power in England at that time, never disgraced civ
ilization.
"You may again have a few words with Sir Walter, in
his cell, before he is conducted to the scaffold for execution."
So strong was the impression, both the Doctor and Grub
experienced a reaction which penetrated the veil of concen
tration, and they felt a grief, which they could not conceal,
upon meeting Sir Walter, but his cheerful countenance, and
his apparent indifference to his pending fate, dispelled their
sorrow and inspired them with a similar elation.
The interview was brief, but of the utmost importance.
Sir Walter confided to them that he had concealed a com
plete reproduction of the accusation and trial by which he
had been condemned, revealing how they could possess them
selves of this priceless document, and authorizing them to
publish it to the world. He declared his innocence of the
charges preferred against him, and forgave his king and his
enemies, holding one great regret, and that was the leaving
of his beloved wife. They witnessed the pathetic parting be
tween them just previous to Sir Walter's being led forth,
which again brought them in his presence, and then they wit
nessed the horrid execution. Even the deputy, who wielded
the axe, knelt and begged the forgiveness of his victim.
The Doctor and Grub were aroused from their trance,
each by the loud weeping of the other. It was a physical
72 The Awakening
reaction due to the trying scene. It was such reactions that
were hurtful.
The Doctor immediately declared:
"Grub, I am now fully convinced that our subjective
mind and the universal mind are one, with a physical barrier
between. We must study this contact until we have the whole
secret. By our concentration we are made mediums. A mis
understanding of this causes many to believe in spiritualism,
but the truth
is,
they themselves are, in different degrees,
mediums, through which the essenic memory takes form. We
have
a
very important subject before us."
They went systematically about verifying the suggestion
of the record of the trial of Sir Walter Raleigh being avail
able, and the actual finding of
it
seemed like
a
miracle. It
was
a
complete and courageous exhibit of the proceedings,
with all their glaring treachery, political fanaticism, and re
ligious bigotry.
Together they perused the document, and wondered how
any so-called civilized nation could have permitted so rank
a
miscarriage of justice. They could only hold in utter con
tempt the prosecuting machinery, and the lord chief justice,
for their brazen bigotry, intolerance and hypocrisy.
"We shall publish this, Grub, to let the world know the
truth," said the Doctor.
"Huh
!
No wonder they kept this thing concealed in
the Tower of London for one hundred years," growled Grub.
"But, the all-important thing
is,
our supposed desire to
visit London was an inspired thing, to reveal to us that this
universal contact
is
a real conscious power, capable of guid
ing us to material contacts. The procuring of this Raleigh
manuscript
is
the concrete evidence.
I
have no further desire
to see London. But
it
does not follow that we will not have
similar suggestions to visit other places for some mysterious
purpose."
"I agree with you.
I
do not care to again visit London,"
said Grub.
The Awakening 73
Note : We have a limited number of copies of the amaz
ing trial of Sir Walter Raleigh, at 50 cents the copy. First
come, first served, postpaid. Address Thomas Sawyer Spivey,
Pool Hill Farm, Shawneetown, 111.
CHAPTER VIII
"Doctor, I feel that you are skeptical about my larval
theory," said Grub. "Therefore if you will permit me to
do so I believe I can put an end to your doubts."
"Shoot!" replied the Doctor, "I'll be either hero or
martyr."
"Well, to refresh our memory, let us examine the pri
mary or positive set of waves," said Grub.
"Just a moment; let me get that. You said positive. Do
you mean that the series of waves coming out of the electron
is positive, and these waves carry the living germs?" asked
the Doctor.
"Yes, and the waves pushed out of the hydrogen spiral
are negative," replied Grub.
"Naturally, to culminate in the hydrogen spiral, the pre
ceding waves must carry the elements which form the suc
ceeding ones, and the latter must suppress, absorb or annihi
late the former. The process proves the tension theory of
electric currents. The highest tension is in the kinetic, nit
rogen wave, with its internal rings : the first relaxation breaks
the rings into spirals as seen in the body of the oxygen wave ;
exhaustion is seen in the plaques in the carbon wave, with
but a single life cell remaining in the hydrogen spiral.
"The original ring, and the recuperative spiral, later sug
gest orbital and axial motion in the planetary body. This
planet draws its nitrogen from universal sources, and its
oxygen from the planetary system.
"The struggle between nitrogen and oxygen, for control,
is seen in the desire of nitrogen to annihilate activity by
freezing matter into a crystalized state, and oxygen decom
74
The Awakening 75
posing matter by fire. Oxygen burns its way to hydrogen
over the dead body of carbon, but this exhausts twelve of
its units as exhibited in the twelve lifeless plaques of carbon,
leaving but the life spark, as represented by the head, and
four of its oxygen units, the life cell is converted into a
hydrogen spiral with the carbon body wound about it.
"The four remaining oxygen units resemble helium = 4.
"The four remaining oxygen atoms seek to unite with
two hydrogen atoms, which retain one atom of oxygen, and
cast off three oxygen atoms, with the result: OH2 = 18
water, the water of life (Rev. 22:1). Oxygen cannot re
gurgitate back, and having no exposed contact with any other
element, forms a molecule, 03 = 48, ozone, which gives to
our sky its blue color. The head of each wave is a hydrogen
measure.
"What has become of carbon? Nothing of this primary,
positive set of waves is utterly annihilated. Exhausted of
its moisture, carbon is crystalized into the hardest and most
precious of all known substances —the diamond.
"This is the mysterious stone of Rev. 2:17, 1 Peter 2:4
and Luke 20:17. 'Rejected but become the head of the corner'
Mark 12:15).
"Here is the evidence that the ecclesiasts plagiarized the
wisdom of the gnostics.
" 'And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear
as crystal, preceding out of the throne of God and of the
lamb' (Rev. 22:1).
"
'For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be
baptized with the holy ghost not many days hence' (Acts 1
:5).
"The holy ghost means the breath, the power of respira
tion, essential to all living matter.
"This identifies John as the primary carbon, who wit
nesses the coming of the oxygen wave of Christ who brings
respiration, the holy ghost, the breath.
'"The Lord Jesus comes in flaming fire' (2 Thess. 1
:8).
"
'And power was given unto him to scorch men with
fire' (Rev. 16:8.)
76 The Awakening
"
'Jesus shall baptize you with the holy ghost and with
fire' (Matt. 3:11).
"
'Baptism is at birth, hence the earthy man is not born
till the power of respiration is given.' This is the breath
God breathed into his mud man.
"
'The holy ghost was not yet given them because that
Jesus was not yet glorified' (John 7:39).
"
'God anointed Jesus with the holy ghost, and God was
with him' (Acts 10:38).
"We breathe the same holy ghost from our atmosphere,
nitrogen and oxygen, therefore we inhale God and Christ
with every breath.
"Jesus was born, and baptized by John, by water, before
he received the holy ghost.
"
'Jesus said unto him, verily, I say unto thee, except man
be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God' (Jno. 3:3).
"
'Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
cannot enter into the kingdom of God.'
"
'That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which
is born of the spirit is spirit' (Jno. 3:5, 6).
"It is evident that the man born of the flesh is he who
is born of water. Lymph means clear water, therefore this
has reference to the leucocyte in the lymph. The spiritual
birth refers to respiration, hence it is born of the blood. The
kingdom of God is the brain.
"This attitude reveals the electron as the throne of God
in the electric or vibratory world, and Jesus as the symbol
of sacrifice in the material world. The lamb symbolizes sac
rifice. Jesus is the life and the life is the light of men (Jno
1:4).
"Bringing the symbolism into more visible contact, the
seat of God is in the sun, and Christ is the light of the sun.
These are the visible aspects of the God and Christ principles
in nature. Later we will see that the light reflected from
the moon is the Christ.
"T am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
"The negative series of waves reveal the material ere-
The Awakening 77
ations, demonstrating two important things. First, that em
bodied life begins in the waters and creeps out upon the land,
and rises into the atmosphere. This is the first resurrection.
Second, that all living matter on this earth is named man,
which corroborates our theory of the formation of the hydro
gen spiral producing water. The earth is the father of all
living earthy things and
it,
originally, was cast out of the
fiery sun.
"Adam means earthy, man.
"But the most significant symbolism of this,
is
its per
sonification in Abraham.
"
Abraham who
is
the father of us all' (Rom. 4:16).
'Abraham comes out of ur, fire. Therefore Abraham sig
nifies the heat or warmth of the sun, insofar as begetting life
on the earth
is
concerned. He
is
father to Jesus Christ, the
life of nature (John 1:4; Matt. 1:1).
"The fact that Jesus
is
symbolized by the oxygen wave
corroborates this.
"This identifies Abraham, the father of multitudes, as
the earth, as distinguished from
:
"
'But to us there
is
but one God, the father, of whom
are all things'
(1
Cor. 8:6).
"Abram definitely identifies Abraham as the high priest.
Ab = father, ram — high.
"Abram was the son of Ter-ah. Ter = the earth, ah
means God, the earthy God.
Terah
is
called the laggard, identifying him as the lagging
energy of the carbon wave.
"Terah also comes out of ur, fire.
"In the code the earth symbolizes production. This also
is
important, for Abraham, upon coming out of Ur, settles
in Mesopotamia, meaning abundance, which lies between the
two great rivers, the Hiddekel, meaning rapid, and the
Euphrates, meaning fructification.
"This
is
a
very plain story, Doctor.
"The ecclesiastic scheme places the ecclesia and the priest
78 The Awakening
hood in the positive wave system, and the militant church,
and humanity, in the negative wave system.
"Between these is baptism by water and fire —the nega
tive system being born out of the spiral.
"He-aven is made, the place of God. He — a mascu
line prefix, aven — nothing or nothingness, which is equated
with empty space.
"Water means a multitude of laws.
"Fire means judgments
"Let us see to what extent they have plagiarized from
the ancient, gnostic system.
Heaven God Christ Man Woman
"
'Our God is a consuming fire' (Heb. 12:29).
"T am the light of the world' (Jno. 8:12).
"
'God is not a man, nor the son of man' (Num. 23:19).
"'Christ is a man' (1 Tim. 2:5). 'And the son of man'
(Matt. 8:20).
"
'Man is the son of God' (Mark 15 :39).
"'Abraham is the father of us all' (Rom. 4:16).
"Including Jesus Christ (Matt. 1:1).
"
'There is one God, and one mediator between God and
man, the man Christ Jesus' (1 Tim. 2:5).
"Abraham is a form of Christ.
God Christ Man
"You remember, I said the oxygen wave burned its way
through the carbon wave?
"Back in Deuteronomy we find the origin of the declara
tion in Hebrew 12:29.
"
'For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a
jealous God' (Deut. 4:24). This is the sun.
"The word jealous betrays the positive, aggressive char
The Awakening 79
acter of the oxygen or Christ wave. Moreover, if the carbon
wave is the earth, and man, it explains how Abraham came
out of fire, Ur—he is the heat of the sun.
"Hebrews 12, allegedly an exhortation to faith, is a com
mendation of the new testament above the old. Nevertheless,
in verse 29 they say 'our God,' whereas in Deut. 4:24, the
expression is 'thy God," proving conclusively the dictatorial
character of the old testament, and the recognition of this
supremacy by the new testament.
"Now, Doctor, hold your breath:
"The old testament represents the positive set of waves,
and the new testament represents the negative set of waves.
We may go deeper into this later.
"The ecclesiastical scheme draws the universal idea into
the planetary field, in order to appropriate and personify
visible bodies to make the suggestions more impressive.
"The sun is the God and fire.
The atmosphere is Christ and diffused light.
"The earth is humanity—man and woman.
"The moon is the church and priesthood, separated from
the common, earthy herd.
"Light means revelation of knowledge and education.
The only sources of natural light being the sun and the moon,
the one arousing physical activity during the day, and the
other reflection and meditation by night. Hence the sun
light reflected to the earth by the moon is the true Christ,
'ruling the earth by night.'
"In the code the stars are put for princes and civil rulers,
giving but scant reflected light.
"Now we may grasp why humanity was cast down into
ignorance. The truth must be concealed, and the semblance
of education was to be used as a bribe to draw chosen ones
into the church, and ignorance was to draw the earthy pro
ducing masses away from the truth, and bind them to the
labors of feeding themselves, and supporting the church in
luxury.
"The ecclesiasts claim the whole as its own, naming the
80 The Awakening
struggling producing masses the 'militant church' (Rev. 3 :10)
to be tempted and tried in the fire of evil examples set as
snares to bind them.
"Those who are wise enough to see and avoid these snares
are taken into the fold of the chosen ones.
"
'O ye seed of Israel his servant, ye children of Jacob,
his chosen ones' (1 Chron. 16:13).
"Israel is the church of Christ. From the church priest
hood are chosen those who pass higher, to take a place in
the ecclesia, the governing body, whose chief is 'king of kings'
and 'lord of lords.'
"Jacob means to supplant by trickery or force. Rebekah,
the mother of Jacob, means snare, trap.
"The church of Christ is the dispenser of the education
to the militant mob.
"This is a specimen of that enlightenment.
'"The fear of the Lord! That is wisdom' (Job. 28:28).
"The rule of fear! That is christianity!
"As to the dispensation of real wisdom, Jesus says, in
secret, to his chosen ones:
"
'Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the king
dom of God; but unto them that are without (the masses),
all these things are concealed in parables.
"
'That seeing they may see, and not perceive ; and hear
ing they may hear and not understand ; lest at any time they
should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them'
(Mark 4:11, 12).
"Can you grasp the devilish intent of this? It was never
intended that the common, producing masses should be edu
cated and raised from a state of degredation.
"Do you now understand why the catholic church pro
hibits the use of the Bible in the public schools?
"Symbolizing the four elements of ancient philosophy :
"Fire, air, earth and water.
"Fire vengeance and judgments.
"Air deportment, freedom.
"Earth, production, misery, degredation.
The Awakening 81
"Water—a multitude of laws.
"There is nothing left for them to usurp, therefore, there
remains but hell for those who know the truth and will not
participate in the diabolical game, and hell means the grave.
"The inquisition removed fifty millions of non-believers."
"Grub," slowly said the Doctor, "you have made plain
to me the real policy of the church from its origin. It was
to cast mankind down into abject misery and oppression under
civil governments, and pose itself as a saving power, and a
mediator between the government and the people. It is log
ical, that the greater the distress, and danger, the more urgent
is the call for aid and protection."
"Of course, Doctor, didn't Mary, rebellion, carry Jesus
into Egypt, meaning misery and oppression? And did not
God call him out of Egypt and into Galilee, meaning revolu
tion? It was the intent of the Christian scheme to revolu
tionize the world," said Grub.
"Well, that reveals a real danger to the people of the
United States," said the Doctor. Europe may be likened unto
Egypt, and colonization of America the leading of the Israel
ites into the wilderness to be tempted and tried. I view this
only as a fanatical thing."
"Just a moment, Doctor, I knew what you were leading
up to. Here it is :
"
'And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord
thy God led thee in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to
prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou
wouldest keep his commandments or not.
"
'And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger'
(Deut. 8:2, 3).
"Wait, Grub," exclaimed the Doctor. "My God! I
now understand the grave situation here in the United States.
We are now being put through that identical test. The nation
is being smothered by a multitude of criminal laws, forcing
whole classes into crime by legislation. The nation is being
consumed by taxation to humble the people in poverty. Crime,
imbecility and ignorance are being commercialized. This
82 The Awakening
damnable ecclesiastic thing will force rebellion and revolu
tion onto this nation."
"Again I have anticipated you, Doctor," said Grub. The
present situation is an attitude of vengeance. Its purpose is
to destroy the nation, and it was premeditated as proven
in the very beginning of the new testament.
"
'Either make the tree good, and his fruit good ; or else
make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt; for the tree is
known by his fruit' (Matt. 12:33).
"This tree is the people of the United States. Evil is
being cultivated for the fruit it yields. The people are being
legislated into crime because transgression is commercialized.
The horror of it all
is,
that imbecility must be cultivated along
with crime and poverty so:
"
'They may see but not perceive and hear but not un
derstand' for the fear that the people might rise and destroy
the horrible monstrosity which
is
destroying them."
"Let's rest and think, Grub," said the Doctor.
CHAPTER IX
"I have another one this morning, Doctor," exclaimed
Grub, as the Doctor came into the library.
"I am just in a humor to listen," replied the Doctor,
and he comfortably seated himself in a large chair. "You
seem to be developing a remarkable discernment of our sub
ject as you delve into its mysteries."
Grub arranged his papers, his reference books, and some
maps, then said: "I am fully convinced that the ecclesiastical
exploitation, in its original conception, was a premeditated
assault upon established civilization, a bold and selfish con
quest for profit and power. It was inspired by the secret
Roman desire to conquer and rule the world, and regulate
the conduct of all peoples. The words ecclesia, catholic and
universal were not adopted for nothing.
"This constant harping about 'God's kingdom' is a more
intimate thing than we seem to realize.
"Now, we know, a kingdom means an earthy thing, a
country, a nation, a people ruled by a human being called a
king. Hence, in this sense, God must be a man to rule over
a kingdom. We have shown, conclusively, there is no other
than a material foundation, where the physical control of peo
ple is concerned. Therefore, such a kingdom as described in
the Bible, must, of necessity, be on this earth. There is not
one single evidence revealing any other place, where such an
organization could exist. Moreover, such an institution is
radically opposed to a republic form of government, there
fore, it condemns the United States, openly expressing treason
against its original constitution.
"There is a tacit evidence of fraud in the word king,
as applied to God, found in the secret code.
"The word king does not mean an individual; it signi
fies a 'tribe' or 'clan.' Must we, then, accept and acknowl
edge some clan to rule over the whole world, and name it
'god of gods' and 'lord of lords,' and recognize some leather
83
84 The Awakening
necked priest, as its head, as 'king of kings' over all the
nations of this earth?
"Let us first examine to see what the Bible reveals, before
we go into the technical purposes of this cherished ecclesi
astical exploitation to usurp the ruling powers of the world,
and seat a super-government to dictate to the established civil
governments how they must rule the people.
"If it was not the original intent to establish a govern
ment, the name ecclesia would not have been filched and
adopted. The name not only means a legislative form of gov
ernment, but it specifically means a cruel, drastic tyranny
which is only exceeded by the hateful, vengeful Biblical theory
of a universal government.
"The ecclesia was the legislative body which ruled, robbed
and ruined ancient Athens. By taxation it confiscated all the
properties of the people.
"We would better take heed in the United States. Tax
ation, in a multitude of forms, is assuming a confiscatory
character. Our federal government knows less about the ex
penditure of vast sums collected from the people by devious
expedients, under the protection of laws, than it knows about
the number of laws on the statute books. It has been cau
tiously suggested that, in the emergency of war, that all prop
erty be confiscated by the government. Nothing in history
more approaches highway robbery. This is suggested by the
same secret forces which advocate the branding of the people.
"The God-king of the Bible is a cruel, vicious, vindictive,
jealous, murderous character.
"The very beginning of the church is suggestive of bribery
on the part of this fabulous God. He bargained with the
high priest of fire-worship, Abram.
"
'Fod said unto Abram, I am the almighty God ; walk
before me, and be thou perfect.
"
'And I will make my covenant between me and thee.
Thou shalt be a father of many nations' (Gen. 17).
"The next important bribery was that which caught Jacob
in the net.
The Awakening 85
"
'And Jacob vowed a vow, saying: If God will be with
me, and keep me in this way that I go, and will give me
bread to eat, and raiment to put on,
"
'Then shall the Lord be my God ;
" 'And of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give
the tenth unto thee' (Gen. 28). This established the priesthood.
"Here is a clean-cut conspiracy for graft. The Lord,
here, means the master, the boss.
"Jacob means usurpation by trickery, or by force.
"Jacob's mother, Rebekah, means snare, trap.
"Jacob named the place where this bargain was entered
into Bethel.
"Bethel means the house of God—the church.
"The place was formerly called Luz meaning almond.
And this significant meaning corroborates the trend of brib
ery. The almond is one of the offerings of Israel in passing
into Egypt to gain good will (Gen. 43:11, 12).
"Jacob is Israel, the organization of the church of Christ.
"And this explains the purpose of the christian scheme.
"Is = the light, ra = of the sun, el = first cause.
"The light of the sun is the first cause of all.
"Christ declares: 'I am the light of the world' (Jno. 8:12).
"This vulgar type, Jacob, is the whole foundation of the
christian church. A polygamist; defrauded his brother; lied
to and swindled his father; swindled his father-in-law, and
was criminally intimate with his servant girls, like unto his
grandfather Abraham, only more so.
"I have repeated these details, Doctor, to show the true
origin of this usurpative power, which threatens to drive all
mankind mad, with its illogical and unnatural theories of gov
ernment.
"We will now see what kind of man this organizing
God is.
"
'Now I know that the Lord is greater than all other
gods, because he was above them' (Exodus 18:11).
"Here is an admission that there are many gods, but the
big one is the 'boss.'
86 The Awakening
"It was Jethro, the high-priest of Midian, who made this
statement.
"Jethro means posterity, hence it speaks of God's past.
"Midian means strife, quarrel, discord, contention, bick
ering, wrangling.
"Moses, the law, fled to Midian, when he committed
murder (Ex. 2:12), and the law became associated with the
church by Moses marrying Jethro's daughter.
"This is the union of the law with the church.
"This union ended with the coming of Christ. Moses,
the law; Midian, strife, and Zipporah, mourning, was a fine
combination to rule the world.
"
'The law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ"
(Gal. 3:24).
"'Christ is the end of the law' (Rom. 10:4).
"Moses declared to Jethro, his father-in-law:
"Because the people come unto me to inquire of God,
and his laws.
"When they have a matter they come unto me; and I
judge between one and another, and do make them know
the statutes of God and his laws' (Ex. 18:15, 16).
"The high-priest tells the law this is wrong, urging that
it is too much authority for the law to assume, and he sug
gested the appointment of 'usurpative judges with martial
powers and arbitrary rule' (Judges 7).
"This was the union of state and church, and the begin
ning of the rule of fear, under the law, and its enforcement
by judges.
"
'The Lord your God is God of Gods, and Lord of
Lords, a mighty and terrible God' (Deut. 10:17).
"This is another admission that there are other gods
and other lords.
"'God is greater than man' (Job 33:12).
"'Great and dreadful God' (Dan. 9:4).
"Moses, the law, had previously been made a God to
Aaron, the teacher, enlightener (Ex. 4:16). Also God to
Pharaoh.
The Awakening 87
"I the Lord thy God am a jealous God' (Ex. 20:5).
'"God is light' (John 1:5).
"Right here, Doctor, is another place to prove that John
is the carbon wave in our primary system.
"
'John was not the light but was the witness which pre
ceded the revealed light' (Jno. 1:8).
"John being the carbon wave naturally lost his head
which became the hydrogen atom.
"This emphatically reveals that man appeared upon the
earth before God or Christ was revealed. Of course this was
natural. It is a self-evident fact that before God could assume
control and authority, there had to be something to be con
trolled. Now this reveals a clean-cut false-pretense, for the
principles, representing God and Christ, were inseparable parts
of the creative process. To remove the carbon wave would
have been as disastrous to the whole system as to remove
the nitrogen or oxygen waves. Therefor man is as much of
a God as the others. To cover this they declare:
"'Christ is all and in all' (Col. 3:11).
"And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then
shall the son also himself be subject unto him that put all
things under him, that God may be all in all' (1 Cor. 15:28).
"This definitely reveals God, Christ and man as one
being, and they may only be revealed in the material man,
for only material things are visible. Man is the manifesta
tion of God in the flesh.
"Christ declares: T and my father are one' (Jno. 10:30).
"This is a chemical proposition. If it refers to the pri
mary system of waves, it is true. The oxygen wave is con
cealed, potentially, in the original nitrogen wave. Upon being
revealed, the oxygen symbolizes Christ as the son of God,
and within the oxygen wave, potentially resides the carbon
wave and the hydrogen spiral, man and woman.
"But, in the secondary series, God and Christ are not
one, for the oxygen wave is born out of the carbon, Christ
becoming the 'son of man.' The oxygen wave however rises
and unites with nitrogen the father, or God, but not as one,
88 The Awakening
for this has reference to oxygen and nitrogen in our atmos
phere, surrounding the material earth. This atmosphere is a
mechanical mixture, therefore, the oxygen and nitrogen atoms
do not chemically combine as one; they are, in fact, antago
nistic elements.
"Do you see the difference, Doctor?
"The descending series is the creative system of waves,
centering in the earth ; hence it is the spiritual. The as
cending waves beget the holy ghost, the breath we breathe.
In either direction the earthy can not reach God except through
Christ. Hence Christ declares: T am the way; no man com
eth unto the father, but by me' (John 14:6).
"Christ being light, reveals, in the positive waves, the
worship of the sun. In the secondary waves, Christ, light, is
'born of man,' revealing fire-worship.
"Could anything be made plainer than that, Doctor?"
"That certainly is a revelation," said the Doctor. "After
all, the whole christian idea is a chemical proposition expanded
into a physical revelation."
"We now have ample foundation upon which to erect
that marvelous similitude, the 'kingdom of God,' a universal
kingdom in image and likeness, meaning the assembling into
one body of all the nations of the earth.
"
'The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of his Christ' (Rev. 11 :15).
"Does that sound like a kingdom some place up in the air?
"Is this triumph over all nations the end of premedi
tated conquest?
"
'We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the world'
(Eph. 6:12).
"Do you suppose for a moment they intend to move
the necessary office furnishings up into the heavens?
"The temporal power of popes appointed ruling powers
in Europe as the same political power appoints the legisla
tive and ruling figures here in the United States. We must
remember, airplanes were unknown when the Bible was written.
The Awakening 89
"Why do the people of these United States, this re
public, of, by and for the people, sit every sabbath and listen
to thousands of preachers uttering their treasonable declara
tions that they will, in due time, convert this republic into
a kingdom?
"It is truly said : 'What fools these mortals be.'
"And now, Doctor, I will develop my theme. I have
formed an idea that we may trail our gnostic waves into the
heart of this heathenish exploitation. Heathenish because it
has filched and plagiarized all its doctrines from religions
which they have called heathenish.
"In an age of mythology, fable and romance, wise, think
ing, reasoning men vied with each other for the supremacy
and control of mankind, each group striving to make its sys
tem most attractive and appealing to the masses of people.
Greece, with its mythology, was superceded by the Roman,
with its heroism, to establish a world empire. Monastic priest
hoods conceived the idea of a super-government to lord it
over established nations, and to this end they plagiarized
the Greek name, ecclesia, meaning a legislative or law-making
body. This they attempted to develop into a universal theoc
racy, plagiarizing this idea from the gnostic theory of uni
versal natural laws.
"Gnosticism alone had solved the great riddle of the uni
verse, tracing the creative processes down to man as the
final image and likeness of the planetary system. Ecclesiasti-
cism systematically destroyed gnosticism, and attempted to con
fiscate and absorb its great wisdom. Hence, man became the
working model of the secret ecclesiastical organization.
"Man became the creative God, and the universal king
dom the image.
"This romantic fraud necessitated the suppression of
gnosticism and the secretion of the wisdom and knowledge
of previous ages, in order that these might not reveal the
truth.
"Ecclesiasticism now attempted to mold all mankind
into a plastic mass (from which to make the earthy man,
90 The Awakening
comprising all nations and peoples, after the universal model.
"The first step was to divide the then known world into
four divisions corresponding with the four essential divisions
of the human body.
The Head The Thorax The Abdomen and Pelvis
The Church The State The People
Flesh Muscle Bone and Marrow
"Italy, or Italus, was named the 'Garden of Europe.' This
represents the 'Garden of Eden' out of which this is all de
veloped.
"The name Italus means a bull calf.
"It is most significant that the name Europe is the She-
metic name Ereb, meaning darkness, evening; technically
meaning deprivation of intellect.
"When God first created the heaven and the earth, the
earth was without form, and darkness was upon the deep.
"The Genesistic day begins with the evening.
"We have previously found that the beginning of the
church scheme was the bargains God made with Abram and
Jacob, both of which were sent into Egypt, symbolizing ignor
ance, misery, and oppression. And it was out of Egypt that
Israel was drawn, and Israel means the church of Christ.
"Doctor, right here is positive evidence that the dark
ages of the early centuries was a premeditated suppression of
all learning, to cast the masses into the darkness of ignor
ance as the beginning of the ecclesiastic conquest of Europe.
The new world was unknown at that time. Nevertheless Er
means watching, and Eb means the beyond, and this is Europe
watching the new world.
"Is = the light, ra = of the sun, el = the first cause.
"Light, in the code, means knowledge, learning, joy and
prosperity.
The Awakening 91
This light, this Israel, was withdrawn and mankind was
left groping in the darkness of abject ignorance for a thou
sand years (486 to 1495). This is authentic history.
"
'God came from Teman,' the flaming desert.
"'Christ came from Paran,' monkish caves (Hab. 3:3).
"Africa was allegedly peopled by Ham. Ham begat
Canaan merchandising and trading.
"Ham means heat, zeal, enthusiasm.
"The monks who originated the christian scheme came
out of the flaming Libyan desert, and similar exclusive re
treats.
"Abraham came out of ur, fire.
"Fire means judgments, afflictions, the torments of hell.
"In the early references to Africa, it was named as one
ot 'the three parts of the ancient world, and the greatest
peninsula of the 'new universe.' Now why was the word
'universe' thus used by the promoters of the universal church,
and applied to a country which it was exploiting?
"Egypt was the seat of sun-worship.
"Christianity is concealed planetary worship, surrounded
with doctrines plagiarized from all other religions.
"The withdrawal of Israel from Egypt also symbolizes
the plagiarization of sun-worship from the Egyptians —draw
ing the people away from sun-worship.
"The beginning of the mystery lies in the division of the
then known world between Shem, Japheth and Ham, sym
bolizing the division of the church work, and the creation
of the ecclesiastic man.
"Shem means name, fame.
"His first offspring reveals him as the brains of the
church, the vatican, the secret ecclesia.
"Shem begat Elam.
"Elam means a young priest, a virgin, a secret, an age.
Age means spoch.
"This is the first intimation of the immaculately con
ceived Christ —a doctrine not fully accepted till 1845.
92 The Awakening
"Moreover, the analysis of the name Elam is most sug
gestive here.
"El means the beginning, the first cause of power.
"Am means the female deity, the church.
"Mary, the mother of Jesus, is the church.
"Shem also is the father of the Hebrews. Alliance.
"Japheth means persuasion, enlargement, God's region,
melting, the masses. By these were the isles of the Gentiles
divided in their lands and peoples, every one after his tongue,
after their families, in their nations (Gen. 10:5).
"Gentiles mean the nations which have not accepted the
faith or laws of God—Europe.
"England is reckoned in with Europe, hence the use of
the word isles in Gen 10:5.
"Ham, hot, zeal, black, darkest Africa. Ham begat Miz-
raim, meaning Egypt and Canaan.
"Egypt means oppression, misery, ignorance.
"Canaan means merchandizing, trading.
"These three represent the triune physical body of the
ecclesiastic organization.
"Shem, the head ; Rome, the brain ; Japheth, the thorax ;
Europe, the heart; Ham, the abdomen and pelvis; Africa,
the stomach. These are the seats of mentation, respiration
and digestion of the great man.
"
'Though this outward man perish, yet the inward man
is renewed day by day' (2 Cor. 4:16).
"All outside of this field of militant operation is a fair
field of conquest, and a place for the excrements.
"Originally it was intended to colonize Africa with the
refuse of Europe.
"Later, the Americas became the dumping grounds for
the refuse of the European nations, always accompanied by
an agent of the church. Today this is the seat of digestion.
"These excrements fertilized new fields to bear fruits,
to be gathered for the church by missionaries. North Amer
ica was literally colonized, in the beginning, by shiploads of
European convicts.
The Awakening 93
"Read the history of Oglethorp and Hudson.
"Although ages older than Europe, and the original
founders of many of the christian doctrines, ancient Asia
was left out of the reckoning, as the great, universal, un
known past, too ancient and far away to form a profitable
contact. It could not be colonized, and to this time it has
not been converted.
"Russia was not founded until the ninth century, but
we have their origin in the Scythians (Col. 3:11) meaning
fierce-looking, bearded men of the north, which they are to
this day.
"The United States was not in existence at that time,
but naturally became a part of the garbage-can into which
Europe cast excrements and offal, and right well has she
served her purpose, which a single instance proves. Every
nation in Europe, and even China, expelled the Jesuits, as
a secret danger to their governments. The catholic church
dumped this militant branch into the United States, where
it has thrived as never before. Truly, the catholics have the
laugh on Europe ; and a strangle-hold upon the United States.
"Doctor, do you know that the book of Revelation, in the
new testament, the last book in the Bible, was not a part of
the Bible until the year 1672? It especially applies to the
United States.
"
'The stone which the builders rejected, the same is be
come the head of the corner' (Luke 20:17).
"It was significant that the name Europe was selected
to cover the nations. It is a Semitic word ereb meaning dark
ness, evening. Let us analyze these words, by referring to
the ecclesiastic code.
"Darkness means ignorance, afflictions.
"Evening means the beginning of the night—the begin
ning of the dark ages, 486 to 1495.
"This positively has reference to the submersion of the
people in ignorance and the bringing upon Europe of the dark
ages, covering a thousand years.
'94 The Awakening
"
'Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all
the land unto the ninth hour' (Matt. 27:45).
"The sixth hour means the sixth century, and the ninth
hour means the ninth century, the most conspicuous period
during the dark ages.
"Doctor, this is a secret confession that ecclesiasticism
named Europe with a deliberate intent to bring upon the na
tions the period of darkness and ignorance.
"Earth means the producing masses of humanity.
"Do you grasp the horrible possibilities of this impudent
classification of the peoples of the earth?
"The head—the priesthood, educational.
"The thorax —the civil classes, rulers, executives.
"The abdomen —the common laborers, production.
"The pelvis—the excrements, sent to new lands.
"All of these are servants to the concealed ecclesia, the
invisible God who lords it over all.
"'Thou hast given him power over all flesh' (Jno. 17:2).
"The key to this whole diabolical game is the identity
of this Jesus Christ character, a fabulous thing, a bald fab
rication, yet 'preached literally, and him crucified.'
"Let us analyze him by their own code.
"If he is not all that he is literally represented to be by
blatant blatherskites, the whole christian scheme falls with
a crash. If he is what the code declares him to be, he can
not be what he is preached.
"Jesus is but the Greek form of the name Joshua, the
savior of the Jews. He never existed as an individual.
"Jo means increased, shua means wealth. This is Jesus.
"This is the fruit for which the church is reaching. If
they cannot profit by making the people good, they commer
cialize evil and cultivate them for the fruits of corruption.
"
'Either make the tree good and his fruit good ; or else
make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt; for the tree
is known by his fruit' (Matt. 12:33).
"The tree symbolizes man.
"The christian church is the wealthiest organization in
The Awakening 95
the world. Every dollar of this wealth has been wrung from
the sweat and blood of slaving humanity.
"This is the true crucifixion.
"The name Christ is not a proper name at all. It is from
Kristos, the Greek form of the word messiah, meaning initia
tion into high office and authority.
"Is it possible that humanity, with this evidence before
it,
will not even raise its bowed head to ask
if
it
is
true?
"Is
it
possible that
it
will continue to trudge beneath
the galling yoke of tyranny without protest,
if
it
is
convinced
that
it
is
being faked out of all its vital energy?"
"Well, Grub, you surely have laid down
a
sordid hand
this time.
I
have been following you, and your deductions
are all fair, but
I
must shock you by declaring that the wise
ones are too criminal to care
a
tinker's blank, as long as
they are safe and unmolested, and the ignorant are too dumb
to understand the truth when
it
is
put up to them. There
is
a third class, eaten up by poverty. Now apply your waves
to this and you have the truth as to position and support.
"The head, the church, coercion, Intrigue.
"The thorax, the state, taxation, *~^^&^^^iz> Crime.
"The abdomen, the common people,
i
i
Poverty.
"The pelvis, the excrement,
@
Insanity.
"The church capitalizes ignorance.
"The law capitalizes crime and taxation.
"The digestive grind empoverishes the masses.
"The weaker class
is
driven into insanity.
"This
is
the end of the game."
CHAPTER X
"I don't feel like digging in the dirt this morning, Grub,"
said the Doctor, as they settled into their seats in the library.
"I'm willing to take a trip with you anywhere but London,
with with filthy debtor-prisons, Limehouse, and White Chapel,
not to speak of the haunted old Tower," said Grub.
"All right, we will take a jaunt and trust to our dear old
pal, Cronus, to make it interesting. Our spiritual exercise in
religious subjects is getting on my nerves," said the Doctor.
"Have you observed, Doctor, a sort of ironical bent to the
instructions of Cronus? He sure speaks his mind, and he
seems to have the same prejudices we are inclined to express,"
suggested Grub.
"Huh," grunted the Doctor, "Cronus may safely bless
or curse anything. Time caters to no creed or prejudice. He
expresses the undercurrent of sentiment in the hearts of men.
He does not cure the ills of the world, but he does reveal
the diseases and their results. It's up to men to correct their
own evils. But, I'll tell you what I do observe, which is of
much importance. He takes kindly to our essenic contact.
No doubt because we shake ourselves free from worldly taints
while in our concentrated state. I do not believe we could
indulge in any form of evil while in this state. Time is the
most unhampered critic of human affairs."
"Nevertheless, I suggest that you draw him out a bit,"
said Grub.
"I will question him," replied the Doctor.
Then they dropped into a state of concentration.
"Gee!" exclaimed Grub, "That was almost instantaneous.
But where are we at?"
The Doctor seemed puzzled, then he laughed as he gazed
up at the great arched structure before them, saying:
"Is it possible you do not recognize one of the great,
heathen structures of Europe, the Arc de Triomphe de V
Etoile, in Paris?"
96
The Awakening 97
"Oh, yes, I do recognize
it,
now, from pictures
I
have
seen, but why do you call
it
heathenish?" said Grub.
"Because, all these dens, called prisons or palaces, are
constructed in jealous imitation of ancient structures of na
tions called heathens," replied the Doctor.
"Ah, here comes our faithful friend Cronus," said Grub,
and they observed he was attired in
a
much more fastidious
costume than he had previously worn. The Doctor good-
naturedly called attention to this change.
"You see,
it
is
this way," said Cronus. 'When you are
in Rome you must do as the Romans do.' The same law
applies to all other countries. Even time must reflect the
frivolous changes in fashions. My other garb would make
me too conspicuous here in Paris.
I
am as conscious of
human eccentricities as you are.
I
do not care to have
a
train
of curious people trailing us about. Ha
!
ha
!"
"Uh, huh, that
is
a
very plausible explanation," said the
Doctor. "Are we liable to bump into other prowling spirits?
Now will you tell us something about this ugly structure?"
asked the Doctor.
"Only
a
pile of tommy-rot, to exploit the puff-ball Na
poleon
I.
The French are strong on the imitation stuff."
"I am surprised at some of your cynical sayings, Cronus.
You seem not to have much respect for worldly pride, and
its monuments," softly said the Doctor, and he looked crit
ically at Cronus.
"Well,
if
you had my experience, you also would be
a
cynic," growled Cronus. "These so-called monuments are
all erected by the sacrifice of hundreds of millions of human
lives, merely to appease the pride and vanity of a few self-
exploited heroes. The world
is
as much under the sordid
hero-worship today as
it
was back in ancient Greece.
"People stand and gape at this crude garden-gate in awe
and wonderment, but not in admiration. Three thousand years
ago peoples erected similar monuments in which this thing
could be set for a window, but, I'll relate the history of this
one.
98 The Awakening
"In 1805-6 Napoleon I erected a similar arc in the square
inclosed by the Tuileries and the Louvre, in commemoration
of his victories of these years, a mere imitation, on a petty
scale, of the 'Arch of Constantine' at Rome. Criticism caused
Napoleon to begin the erection of this larger structure in
1806, but it was not completed until 1836. It is 146 feet
wide, 160 feet high and 72 feet in depth. The archway is
67 feet high and 46 feet wide. Its decorations are a con
glomerate mass of alleged victories, heroic acts, panels, reliefs,
and descriptions, which not even the French people under
stand. They are neither inspiring nor edifying, because most
that they stand for, I have seen destroyed, or reversed, by
the ravenous and unscrupulous hands of subsequent ambi
tious conquests. Napoleon's subsequent disgraceful failures
cast a pall over this pet monument, and now it stands as a
gateway at the head of one of the most interesting pathways
of humanity, along which vain kings are wont to parade
and receive the plaudits of hysterical thrill seekers. Look!"
And he turned them about and pointed down the proud
Champs Elysees of Paris.
"We will take a stroll on this thoroughfare."
They passed leisurely to the Jardin des Tuileries, to the
Place de corrousel, and entered the Palais Du Louvre. This
wonderland of art and antique junk was a revelation to both
Grub and the Doctor, and they waited for Cronus to speak.
"So-called art, which, after all, is but imitation, has
thrilled humanity through all ages," began Cronus. "Had
the church not adopted art and music, christianity could never
have enthralled credulous humanity and organized it protect
ing militant following. One class is caught by thrill, and
another by fear.
"Both began to culminate about the year 1000, when hu
manity was groping in dense ignorance. The whole people had
been schooled in the belief that the end of the world was
approaching. Even public documents made provision for this
end. Art and music began to reflect that galling fear. Ev
erything took on a weird, tragical aspect. The church knew
The Awakening 99
that a huge fraud was being perpetrated upon the world, and
it took full advantage of the great opportunity to plaster
Europe, and especially France, with its gruesome architec
tural art, and to plaster their walls with its sorrowful, implor
ing faces, and its collapsed bodies with hands upheld to a
fake Jesus Christ hanging upon a cross.
"In France, which had previously known little of art,
the church seized upon this inspired fright with grim and
gloating satisfaction, and rushed madly into the development
of a Romanesque architecture, in the erection of many
churches and cathedrals, which awed and overcame the na
tion. Ignorance always assumes a patronizing attitude towards
such pretense. The enormous growth in the power of the
church brought a flood of wealth to it. It began to send out
vast numbers of missionaries, disguised under the name of
pilgrims, to bring from foreign lands a harvest of antique
relics with which to attract the people, and to feed the sav
age appetite for so-called art, which they had aroused. Hence
the art galleries abound in arts of this character. The Louvre;
the Luxembourg ; the Trocadero ; the Musees de Cluny; the
Carnovalet ; the Galliera, supplemented by Versailles, St.
Denis, and Chantilly, constitute the 'Garden of Eden' of
European art.
"The churches became the inspiration for the architec
tural artists of the world.
"A sigh of relief was heard all over Europe with the
dawn of the year 1001, when it was discovered that the same
old sun rose in the east; the same old world went merrily
on, and the family wash remained intact upon the lines—but
out of this century was hatched the murderous crusades, one
of the most vicious of papal pastimes.
"But, the horrid disease, war, had been shot into Europe.
Inspired strife and embroilement kept all the nations in a
turmoil. The church, now in the saddle, seized the temporal
power and grinned, that it had been so successful in deceiv
ing the people. It was vindicated, because it was but a mat
ter of time when the hypocrisy of christianity would reveal
100 The Awakening
itself to sane, thinking men, and that it had thoroughly
grounded itself in ignorance, and surrounded itself with a
militant mob, fed up on superstitious fear. Fear ruled the
world, while ecclesiasticism was embellishing itself with awe-
inspiring grandeur, and making secure its temporal power
over European nations.
"I was an independent spectator and recorder of all
the events of the critical period, extending up to the 18th
century. I observed the grand opportunity of the church
open up in the Americas. I foresaw that the United States
would become the dumping ground for all the offal of Eu
rope. The church lives, thrives and fattens upon evil. If
there were no evil there would be no excuse or reason for
the church. The popes of Rome, in due time, made peace with
Europe, and surrendered the temporal power over its nations,
to slip into America, and, unmolested there, build up its long
cherished empire, where it could build a universal nation of
all peoples and all tongues, and all nationalities under one
government, to which it could secretly dictate.
"Where Japheth had originally established himself in
Europe, 'every one after his tongue, after their families, in
their nations' (Gen. 10:5). Papacy led Jesuitry into the wild
erness of America, to prepare the way for the new Babylon;
mixture, confusion and temptation, and trial, in the wilderness.
"Take a general view of the conditions in the United
States, today, and you have the answer. But, this is suffi
cient of this. You may ponder it at your leisure. Moreover,
you may ravage these galleries at some future time. I have
a more important object lesson for you. Come.
"Because of your having previously visited the 'Tower
of London,' I desire to also give you a view of its twin sis
ter, 'The Bastille of Paris.' You will find it of kindred in
terest, revealing, as it does, the fiendish character of nation
alism inspired to do irrational things, by the treacherous in
trigues and connivance of the meanest secret organization that
ever disgraced the earth —ecclesiasticism."
"We are deeply interested in all you have told us, Cronus.
The Awakening 101
You have frequently given vent to „your adverse sentiments
towards the ecclesiasts. Could, ypii not briefly enlighten us
about the name. It helps, a. lot to understand the. secret pro
cesses of political organizations ;to: know Something of their
origin," said the Doctor.
"A brief recital as we proceed, will be sufficient at this
time," said Cronus, as they strolled along the Rue de Rivoli.
"The origin of the christian idea dates far back into an
tiquity, having no connection whatever with the Christian or
Hebrew idea, excepting by plagiarism. There have been as
many Christs as there have been major religions. The Christ
character is but a fabulous hero-savior, who is invariably sac
rificed. We are, right now, upon sacred ground in that sense.
"Napoleon Bonaparte was as much a Jesus Christ to his
country as was the fictitious Jesus Christ of the christian ex
ploiters. He was the hero of the French people, and became
a martyr in their cause. You have not found him sainted.
"The true significance of the word Christ is initiation into
office and leadership. It is not a proper name at all. It was
brazenly plagiarized from the Greek 'Kristos,' the Greek form
of the pretended Hebrew word 'messiah,' which means an
ointed upon assuming office.
"The whole ecclesiastical scheme was to unite all nations
into one kingdom, through a church in common, which rec
ognized in its head the supreme ruler over the whole earth,
hence it adopted the name catholic, meaning all, universal.
The evidence that it did contemplate a controlling government,
and super-authority, is in the fact that it adopted the name
ecclesia, which has no religious significance whatever. It has
been difficult for the Christian church to explain this. The
name ecclesia does not appear in the Bible, or the standard
concordances, but the word ecclesiasticus, meaning of the
assembly, is hidden away in the apocrypha, the part of the
Bible which is not revealed. Apocrypha means hidden, con
cealed.
"Ecclesiasticus is the Latin for 'wisdom of Jesus Christ,
son of Sirach.'
102 The Awakening
"Sirach ,also is a moot name, because it means the 'father
of Jesus,' who Ad nof'khftw his own father, he is credited
with so ma_ny.: /; '
.*,
' "
"An "analysis of'"the"rrime makes of its suppression
a
mystery. Sir means reverent, ach means a troubler.
"In
1
Chronicles 2:7, one Achar
is
the troubler of Israel,
the church of Christ.
"The affix ar means an adversary.
"The ecclesia, originally, long before the christian idea,
was the cruel legislative body which governed ancient Athens.
It was
a
crime to have imitated it. It was the personification
of cruelty. By its system of taxation
it
confiscated all the
properties of the common people, on the theory that extreme
poverty
is
an agent of control and discipline.
"This
is
a
doctrine also of the church.
"
'The poor shall never cease out of the land' (Deut.
15:11). Why then charities
?
"If the christian church was
a
thing inspired of
a
God of
its pretensions, why did they select the name of one of the
most drastic and tyrannical governments that ever ruled
a
helpless people, for its master organization, and thereby en
dorse poverty?
"We are now standing upon the material evidence of
history, of the futility of this imitation. The catholic imitators
had advanced far enough in their contemplated universal king
dom, to feel safe in revealing the purpose of the ecclesia.
They erected the 'ecclesiastical states
of
the catholic church.'
"The French people had deified
a
little Jesus Christ of
their own, named 'Napoleon Bonaparte.' They went to Rome,
took possession of the 'ecclesiastical states,' converted them
into the 'Roman republic,' and sent Pope Pius VI away from
Rome to look for
a
job as piano-tuner, or brick-mason. Just
think of this, sending the vicar of Christ out of the eternal
city of God to die on the soil of the new Christ. Pius VI
died on French soil in 1799.
"The impudent nerve of these popes
is
well illustrated
in this instance. The succeeding pope took the name of Pius
The Awakening 103
VII, and brazenly attempted to restore the former status
of the 'ecclesiastical states,' but Bonaparte slapped his face,
and took away his temporal power, and reduced him to the
humble title of the bishop of Rome.
"But, here we are now; this is the real lesson of today.
'The Bastille of Paris.' Another imitation. It is practically
a duplication of the 'Tower of London,' in point of history
and reputation, and its horrors. Blood and terrorism were
fashionable through the middle centuries.
"Originally the Bastille was the royal castle of Charles
V, king of France in 1369, and, as usual, allegedly constructed
for the defense of Paris, against the English, as though the
king was the whole of Paris. The masses could take refuge
in the sewers. The thing was completed in 1383.
"Like the tower of London, it afterward became the state
prison, and the scene of the most deplorable of human suffer
ing, and of frightful crimes —the French are a cruel people,
whereas the English are brutal.
"The Bastille withstood a siege by Henry IV in the hor
rible war which desolated France, between the years 1587
and 1594. Yet, it was torn from its foundations and pulled
down by that greatest of all human powers, the infuriated
mob, seeking vengeance, in Paris, 1789. This was the com
mencement of the French revolution. The infuriated popu
lace seized every official in charge of this monument of tor
ture, conducted them to the Place de Greve, and there pub
licly cut off their murderous hands as instruments of torture.
Then they cut off their heads, fixed them on pikes, and car
ried them in triumph through the streets of Paris.
"One of the great secrets of this tower of hell, was the
prisoner known as 'the man in the iron mask.' The world
never knew his identity. I am going to repeat it to you, in
confidence, the nearest approach to the truth. He was the
son of Anne of Austria, queen of Louis XIII, his father be
ing that historical lady-killer, the Duke of Buckingham.
"The 'mask' died after long imprisonment, Nov. 19, 1703.
"Another horrible case was that of Francis Seldon, a
104 The Awakening
wealthy and refined man, imprisoned for criticising Louis
XIV's bald head. Although he was called 'Louis the Bald'
by every writer and historian in Europe.
"Thus, again, you have an example of the futility of imi-
itation. You must not confound imitation with selectivity.
The one instinct selects the real thing for its intrinsic worth.
Whereas, imitation is a fraudulent false-pretense in many in
stances —for instance, the selection of the word ecclesia.
"My memory of Paris is neither edifying nor pleasing.
The poisons of church intrigues still linger in the French na
tion. It attempted to carry water on both shoulders, in the
most critical period of European national development, in
consequence of which, it became a vicious irritant, a fester
ing boil on the body politic of Europe, to periodically erupt
and inoculate with its deadly virus, any other state striving
to attain a healthy and peaceful position among nations. The
quill which carried this poison was the secret intrigues of
the popes at Rome. I shall reveal to you the evidence of
this, the great tragedy of August 24, 1572 —the massacre of
St. Bartholomew's Festival Day, in Paris.
"No imagination of man has been able to picture a hell
sufficiently equipped with cruelties to adequately punish the
perpetrators of this greatest of all individual crimes committed
by the catholic church.
"Before we vision the living picture, I will name the agents
who directed the horrible massacre, which, it is conserva
tively estimated, murdered one hundred thousand helpless,
innocent, men, women and children in twenty-four hours.
"Pope Gregory XIII, uncle of Catherine de Medici.
"Catherine de Medici, queen-dowager, mother of Charles
IX.
"Charles IX, king of France.
"These were the instigators and abettors of this horrible
crime, which spared not mother, nor infant child in her arms.
"This vile creature de Medici, with her half-witted royal
son, sat upon a balcony and howled with ribald laughter, as
they directed the bloody tragedy.
The Awakening 105
"Pope Gregory XIII, upon being advised of the appalling
success of the enterprise, called a great festival reception,
with fire-works, and the firing of cannon.
"Nature frequently resents and punishes such outrages
against humanity.
"Charles IX literally died wallowing in his own blood,
he dying of purpura-hemmorrhageau, the bleeding at every
pore of the body.
"His hag of a mother made harlots of her own daughters
and joined them in their debaucheries.
"Now, for a moment, we shall look upon the actual mas
sacre."
From a vantage point they witnessed the awful carnage
with affright. Men, women and children ran screaming
through the streets of Paris, pursued by fiends incarnate,
who cut, clubbed and beat them to death, mutilating the body
while the flesh yet quivered.
"Priests ran wildly among the throng, with uplifted
crosses, loudly screaming : 'Kill ! Kill ! Kill all ! God will
take care of his own.'
"Great piles of dead bodies lay in the streets; the gutters
were filled with streams of human blood, and blood dyed the
Seine river red, while dead bodies clogged its flow.
They turned from this awful sight of human slaughter,
nauseated and horror stricken.
"And yet, in the twentieth century, you will find through
out Paris, one hundred and fifty structures the names of
which begin with 'Saint.'
"The murderous Gregory was sainted.
"The greatest outstanding evidence that no such char
acter as the christian God ever existed is in the fact that the
catholic church was not wiped out of existence for the St.
Bartholomew Massacre.
"The proof that the rulers of Europe were in connivance
with the powers at Rome, is manifest in the fact that all
Europe did not rise in a body and destroy the church for
this murderous crime."
106 The Awakening
"We are shocked beyond expression, Cronus," sorrow
fully said the Doctor. "I must say, you are feeding us up
on these terrifying nightmares, which no longer exist, es
pecially in the United States."
Cronus laughed softly saying, "Your nation will awaken
from its trance in due time. It has been rocked as an inno
cent baby long enough. When it awakens you will hear its
mighty yell around the world. The conditions under which
you live are treacherous to all humanity, beyond the wildest
theories of past centuries.
"You are as ignorant of the dangers of intriguing forces
as during the dark ages. You are surreptitiously being sub
merged in crime, insanity, and poverty, to render the masses
innocuous and harmless, while the yoke of despotism is being
rivited upon your necks.
"Never before in history has a people been so smothered
in criminal laws. Never before in your own history has crime
been so rampant. Your prisons are a disgrace to civiliza
tion; your insanity is increasing beyond the power to appre
hend it. Your laws have increased so rapidly, not even your
centralized government can enumerate them. Each new law
adds a whole new class to your criminal list.
"Your poverty. Oh, what a tragedy. In a false-pretense
of charity your whole country is in an uproar in an attempt
to cover up actual starving conditions. And, lastly, you are
taxing your nation out of existence, as the ecclesia of Athens
did. The power which is secretly responsible for all this is
the same that brought on the revolution in France and else
where. The purpose is to render the masses utterly helpless.
"This ulterior power is a victim of its own original teach
ings —fear ; therefore it is utterly heartless in erecting its own
safeguards. You are warned of the last step in this shame
less disregard of natural human rights. If humanity stands for
this last outrage, then it is hopelessly imbecilic. I will release
you now with this shocking threat:
"
And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor,
The Awakening 107
free and bond to receive a mark in their right hand, or in
their foreheads;
" 'And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor,
this mark' (Rev. 13:16, 17).
"This will naturally follow the suppression of free
speech, and the legislation of all into crime as declared in
Romans 3:19.
"When the Bible was written, finger-printing was un
known. I warn you, right now, strong pressure is being
brought to finger-print, as potential criminals, every man, wo
man and child in the United States."
"This will give you something to think about till we meet
again," and Cronus faded.
The Doctor and Grub sat up, staring. This had been a
tremendous shock. The purpose was manifest; the lesson
was to give them a full understanding of the undercurrent
of the human conditions, especially in the United States. The
reaction was not pleasant. They had been students of world
events and were quick to grasp the truth.
"This is hot stuff Cronus is handing us, Grub," remarked
the Doctor. "But let's not discuss it now. I must examine
some new impressions made upon my mind. We will take
the matter up at our next meeting," and they thoughtfully
separated.
CHAPTER XI
It was a gloomy morning and the Doctor and Grub seemed
to be in sympathy with
it,
as they silently seated themselves
at the table. Both seemed to have a premonition of some
thing urgent or important.
"Doctor," began Grub,
I
am disappointed in
a
way.
I
think we had both contemplated travel and its pleasures, but,
as
I
think
it
over,
I
believe
it
is
highly possible that carnal
pleasures are not recorded in the universal mentation, because
they are physical impressions. Do you get me?" And Grub
looked anxiously at the Doctor, whose face registered alarm.
"By Jove
!
Grub. You surely have said
a
mouthful,"
the Doctor exclaimed. "But the thing which startles me
is
to find that our exercise of this new mental power
is
draw
ing us into
a
thought in common. You have anticipated my
subject for this morning's discussion. One of my first ex
pressions was to be this quotation on the same identical point.
"To be carnal minded
is
death. For to be carnal minded
is
enmity against God, for
it
is
not subject to the law of God
;
to be spiritual minded
is
life' (Rom. 8:6, 7).
"I first want to give my own impression, made by our
experiences of yesterday. This experiment of ours
is
of far
greater importance than we have yet realized.
I
am fully
convinced that our subjective minds are but embodied uni
versal mentation. Conscious intelligence
is
awakened by this
embodiment. The living body
is
the mechanism by which
it
expresses itself. Moreover, this expression may only be vis-
ioned by living beings. Our external sense organs are the
receivers, and our internal sense centres are the translators.
Therefore understanding
is
wholly physical. Now, Grub,
here
is
one for you. The universal mentation, and the sub
jective mentation, are one, and we may now identify the ele
ments in this Bible quotation:
"T and my father are one' (John 10:30).
108
The Awakening 109
"The personal pronoun T is speaking and this is the
Christ character.
"
T am the way, the truth, and the life ; no man cometh
unto the father but by me' (John 14:6).
"And now for the final stroke. This thing naming itself
Cronus is the universal mentation forming a contact with
our subconscious mind, and awakening our understanding.
This is the true revelation. In our trance state we do not
move from our seats, yet we actually experience the sense
of vision and understanding.
"Only the senses of seeing and hearing are involved. We
wonder, in our waking hours, why Cronus, who knows all
things, is the medium.
"
'No man knoweth who the son is but the father ; and
who the father is but the son, and he to whom the son will
reveal him' (Luke 10:22).
"Now did the father betray the son when he was crucified ?
"This makes it clear that God cannot reveal himself,
but must be revealed through our subconscious minds, and
this impalpable thing is named Jesus Christ.
"That revelation is the vision which we know as Cronus,
an essenic being.
"Now, what is the purpose of this revelation. Is this
difficult to know after having listened to his talk?
"And God saw that the wickedness of man was great
in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of
his heart was only evil continually' (Gen. 6:5).
"This reveals that the universal mind is a conscious thing,
which contemplates its creations with the same concern as
though possessed of physical qualities. But, to accomplish
a purpose which is understandable by men, it must form a
contact with embodied mentation. This physical contact is
the coming of the Christ principle, which is authority.
"I am convinced that such a contact has been formed in
our case, and that the lectures of Cronus are revealing the de
sire of the greater mentation to correct evils which are bidding
to destroy the works of nature, and pervert the purposes of
110 The Awakening
the creation of men on this earth. It is a self-evident truth,
that pleasure and pain are embodied mentation, therefore men
are responsible for their own troubles if left to their own
resources, but when enslaved, and persecuted, whole nations
of people suffer because of inspired conditions over which
they have no control. The fact that Cronus dwells upon
the prevailing evil conditions in the United States, reveals a
desire on the part of the universal consciousness to correct
these evils. This is a reactive process, which corroborates
our own deductions, that the purpose of the creation of think
ing, reasoning minds is to nourish the universal mind. Phys
ical pain is but reflected mental distress, and nature rebels
against the abuse of the natural gift of the power to think.
"Never before has the United States been in such deplor
able mental distress. All the powers which control the
masses seem determined to bring humanity to eternal pain
and sorrow. This condition must be corrected, or this nation
will perish. We know the original source and evil inspira
tion of the adverse conditions prevailing in the United States.
A vicious assualt upon the common masses has long been
in progress, and the downfall of the nation prophesied, with
unimaginable horrors. We are right now in the midst of
a modern form of the murderous inquisition which tortured
Europe. Mental torture takes the place of the physical tor
ture, outside the prisons, and physical tortures crush the
spirit out of men within prison walls. All respect for decent,
self-respecting citizenship has disappeared. Finger-printing
has superceded branding, and the electric chair supercedes
burning at the stake. The men who execute the laws are
gone crazy with excess of power to punish. Women and
children are executed along with hardened men.
"Is it any wonder the universal consciousness is angered,
when men advertise in advance their purpose to crucify hu
manity ?
"Time and the universal mentation are one, and never
ending.
The Awakening Ul
"
'One day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and
a thousand years as one day' (2 Peter 3:8).
"It is the affair of men who rule mankind if they per
mit their own kind to defraud, persecute and destroy them.
"If the kings of this earth cannot distinguish between
the Christ within their own bodies, and the fraudulent Christs
posing as Gods upon earth, they must suffer in the end
with the common herd.
"Right now the second thousand years is upon us.
" 'And when the thousand years are expired, Satari shall
be loosed out of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the
nations' (Rev. 20:7, 8).
, "The United States is in the midst of that satanic hell
right now. We are rapidly approaching a culmination, long
anticipated by the contemptible idiots who have poisoned all
human governments with their fake gods.
"When the end comes:
"
'The kings of the earth, and the great men, and the
rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty, and every
bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens
and in the rocks of the mountains. And said to the mountains
and rocks : Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that
sitteth on the throne' (Rev. 6:15, 16).
"Is any one fool enough to not understand this is a
man ? This means the pope of Rome. He has done it before ;
he will do it again.
"If the churches, as organized bodies, are not absolutely
eliminated from American politics this end is not far away.
At this very time the pope is broadcasting his godly inter
ference in the civil affairs of this nation.
"But, now let's get back to fundamentals.
"I believe that mentation is orbital, and physical action
is axial, and this distinguishes between mind and matter.
Matter cannot regurgitate back through the waves which cre
ate it. Do you follow me?"
"Yes, yes, go on." excitedly responded Grub, and the
Doctor continued :
112 The Awakening
"It is a self-evident fact that a spiral body cannot pass
back over a straight line, nor can a straight, solid body
adjust itself to traverse a curved line. If there is any re
adjustment it must be in some progressive way, and that
means material bodies, and a continuation of a cyclic process."
"Well' let's continue the physical part of the cycle out
of the spiral," suggested Grub.
"I have it! I have it!" exclaimed Grub.
"The first series, from the electron to the spiral is mental,
and the second motion, from the spiral to the globular, is
the physical. Permit me to illustrate this, Doctor, by the
fruit-bearing tree. It is in line with my automatic work.
"The cold, warm, dry, and moist waves come to the
earth as the spiritual or creative waves. Now see what these
create. We will see them manifest in consecutive waves,
masses or consistency, each producing its kind in a consecu
tive order.
"I will make a rough sketch of the tree as the mani
festing product :
"Here we have the primary, creative waves collected
in the earth, constructing for themselves a physical body en
masse, yet revealing each wave individually in imitation of
the creative series.
"Doctor, there can remain no doubt about the makers
of the Bible being wise to this gnostic wisdom.
"
'God created man in his own image, after his likeness'
(Gen. 1:26).
"
'And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew' (Gen. 2:5).
"The physical tree produces a potential globe, the apple,
which carries the power to reproduce the tree. The fruit
drops back to the earth, and while its own physical body dies,
The Awakening 113
Creative Waves Created Tree
Read Downward
its spirit takes on a new body. This is the origin of the resur
rection. They chose the apple tree because its fruit contains
no godly essence. The acid of the apple is malic C4 H, 605,
containing no nitrogen.
"We have opened the way for a tremendous discussion
of our presence on this planet, and the purpose of organic,
physical being, and this will especially involve human ignor
ance and errors. Had the original gnosticism survived the
murderous assault of ecclesiasticism, human errors and im
perfections would have been reduced to the minimum, instead
of having developed to the maximum.
"We may as well face it calmly. We must blush, though,
114 The Awakening
for the inspired evils which have secretly beset ignorant man
kind. We have little to be proud of."
"I realize the importance of your automatic work," said
the Doctor. "These drawings are especially instructive. Have
you followed these waves to their ultimate possibilities?"
"Yes, Doctor, and you will surely be surprised," replied
Grub. "Now, for instance, examine these four primary waves :
ChAAT
Nitrogen Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen
Vibratory Gaseous Solid Fluid
Cold Warm Dry Moist
"Thus, we see at a glance, that these waves reveal all the
attitudes which physical, material bodies can assume.
"This manifests, of course, in waves, masses and con
sistency.
"But, the true revelation is found in the fact, that vege
tation is earthy, and mankind is planetary, because of his
independent liberty.
"The waves which form the tree are literally pushed out
of the ground, in imitation of the reverse waves coming out
of the original electric molecule. The expanding limbs point
toward the sky, and its fruits, its last product, drop back
to the earth.
"On the contrary, man is inverted, and all of his limbs
point downward to the earth which nourishes him.
'"God made man upright' (Ecc. 7:29).
"This suggests an examination of this body to ascertain
in what respect he is an image of planetary formation. We
find a logical sequence, always corresponding with our four
waves.
"Flesh, muscle, bone, marrow.
"Here is the same logical sequence.
"A much more important proposition is the division of
the body into:
The Awakening 115
"Head, thorax, abdomen and pelvis, with functions cor
responding with our waves.
"But still greater is the organic revelation, as the reflected
planetary image.
■^^^^\^> The brain—Mercury,
x-^n^^^^o The heart —Venus.
"This approximately corresponds to our planetary
system."
"Wait a moment, Grub; let me get my breath. This is
crowding us too much. Let us rest for a while. I realize
now the tremendous importance of this inspired stuff you call
automatic writing. I find myself under a similar urge. We
will continue this subject tomorrow," and the Doctor arose.
"Wait just a moment, Doctor," said Grub. "I have here
a good one.
"Again examine the apple tree. The Greek mythology
is not foolishness. It conceals the traditional gnostic wisdom.
Mercury is the god of commerce. Let me show you the proof
of this, and the origin of the caduceus.
"The waves of the tree as represented by its limbs have
all their heads pointing toward the earth through the body.
The trunk of the tree is the staff of Mercury, and the limbs
represent the battling serpents coiling themselves about this
staff, revealing that the tree is actually a common carrier,
between the atmosphere and the earth, of the electrical waves,
seeking contact with the earth's surface, essential to produce
vegetation. Truly a wonderful commerce. But, Doctor, this
@ The stomach —Mars.
__ The spleen —the Asteroids.
The liver—Jupiter.
Q The kidneys—Uranus.
116 The Awakening
intimates that the earth breathes through vegetation, therefore,
if the earth's surface is denuded of its forests, its breathing
organs, it will die."
"Grub, this is a master discovery. The earth is just now
experiencing an asthmatic condition. We must discuss this
at length at an opportune time." And the Doctor passed out
of the room.
CHAPTER XII
It was the afternoon. The small house-garden looked
particularly inviting, and the Doctor suggested they adjourn
there for their discussion.
"I trust you are feeling well, Doctor. That horrid trip
to Paris still haunts me," said Grub.
"Ha! I never felt better in my life, or more fit for
anything, even a St. Bartholomew Massacre, if I could
choose my own victims," and the Doctor posed as a gladiator.
"I am quite convinced we have treated too lightly these
illustrations of creative processes," said Grub, as he placed
his work upon the table.
"I am all ears, Grub, and eager to grapple with your
serpents. But I have in mind asking you to explain more
fully the significance of using serpents to illustrate your
vibrations or waves," and the Doctor drew a sheet of illus
trations toward him.
"Yes, yes, I have frequently intended to make such ex
planation to you," said Grub. "I have made quite an ex
haustive investigation of this symbolism. I do not hesitate
to declare that the reason the christian church reviles and
slanders the serpent
is,
because
it
is
the only living creature
endowed by nature to reveal the hypocrisy, and false-pretense,
in the christian exploitation. It
is
the only living creature
which naturally executes all of the creative waves in con
secutive continuity. To us
it
reveals much more. It betrays
the truth, that the ancient gnosticism was deeply versed in
the creative processes, and
a
knowledge of the intent and
purpose of peopling this earth, all of which
is
so bitterly
antagonized by ecclesiasticism.
"It was essential for the ecclesiasts to bring the living
serpent into bad repute, in order that humanity might not
recognize the spiritual waves which
it
reflects and images.
Man
is
not the only reflection and image of the god of nature.
117
118 The Awakening
"Nevertheless, the Bible admits the truth of the serpent
reflecting wisdom.
"
'Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of
the field' (Gen. 3:1).
"We must observe that, doubtless by error, the serpent
is here paid a great compliment instead of receiving an
insult. There are two ways of spelling the word subtil:
"Subtile means rare, delicate, nice, acute, refined.
"Subtle means cunning, crafty, sly, artful, wise.
"The first form is used in Gen. 3:1).
"In his instructions to his disciples, the fabulous Jesus
unconsciously reveals the cunning form.
"'Be thou as wise as serpents' (Matt. 10:16).
"
'Surely a serpent will bite without enchantment ; and
a babbler is no better' (Ecc. 10:11).
"Here is a subtle reference to the knowledge of the ancient
practice of charming or echanting the cobra by Indian fakirs.
"That there is no intention to flatter the serpent in Gen.
3:1 is quite clear by:
"
'That old serpent called the devil and satan which
deceiveth the world; he was cast out into the earth, and
his angels were cast out with him' (Rev. 12:9).
"Doctor, this was that serpent, and these vibrations, or
waves, are his angels.
"They were cast out of the primary electron.
"Now the question immediately arises:
"If God did spitefully cast the 'devil' and 'satan' and his
angels out into the earth, he must have had a purpose for
doing so, and this recognition of the powers of the serpent,
and their alleged perversion, reveals a sinister motive to fill
the earth with evil. It is self-evident that such an act is for
the furtherance of church ends. I have previously expressed
the belief that the churches here in the United States are
making a broad use of evil in every form for their own
ends and purposes. Satan in this sense means evil. Evil is
the devil turned loose.
The Awakening 119
"
'And when the thousand years are expired, satan shall
be loosed out of his prison.
"
'And shall go out to deceive the nations of the earth"
(Rev. 20:7, 8).
"Thus sin and the devil are acknowledge agents of the
church, and are subject to its control.
"The serpent, in all ages of philosophy, has symbolized
wisdom and knowledge. The church, from its first incep
tion, repudiated science and philosophy, forbidding mankind
to partake of them. Why? Because they reveal the gnostic
wisdom, and expose the christian false-pretense.
"It is a peculiar thing, that, as little reference as pos
sible to the serpent, is made in Bible dictionaries and con
cordances, and this is tainted by falsehood.
"Such fabulous stories of great sea-serpents as those at
tributed to Pliny, Phillips and others, are merely to inspire fear.
"The church, however, quickly seizes upon any symbol
ism which it can use. During the dark ages many symbols
were used in which the serpent represented regeneration,
due to the fact that it casts off the old skin for a new.
"To this day we have a reminder of the nourishing of
the young by the old, in the fable of the stork bringing the
babies. It is taken from a symbol consisting of a serpent
coiled in a circle, with its tail in its mouth, and within the
circle an old stork carrying upon its back a young one, and
feeding to it a serpent, signifying the giving of wisdom to
the young by the old.
"It is remarkable to what extent the church stultifies
itself by reversing its uses of the serpent, at one time good,
at another evil. The same applies to good and evil. "In the
shedding of its old skin the serpent becomes the symbol of
spiritual rebirth. "Its crawling in the dust figures sinful ma
terialism.
"God said unto the serpent:
"
'Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat
all the days of thy life' (Gen. 3:4).
"Merely taking advantage of a natural simile, for this
120 The Awakening
curses the regenerative serpent also. The circular serpent,
concealing potential wisdom, has been a popular symbol for
ages, and by all nations given to philosophy.
"Egypt adopted and deified the crocodile because it has
no tongue, symbolizing potential, unspoken wisdom. The
serpent was deified as the expression of wisdom into knowl
edge, it having a forked tongue.
"The Chaldean for serpent was acan. The Bible con
verts this into achan, meaning the troubler—wisdom.
"The circular serpent of the Hopi Indians of Arizona
(Horizona), carries the distinguishing nitrogen waves run
ning through its body.
"The church has striven hard to conceal the serpent as
the true gnostic symbol of wisdom, by the adoption of the
captic 'Pistis Sophia,' meaning wisdom.
"Pavitt, in his wonderful 'Book of Talismans,' says:
'The serpent, throughout all ages, has appealed to the imagina
tion of man, to whom its various characteristics afforded
opportunities for symbolic expression. It is used as a symbol
of eternity; longevity; health, and vitality. In a circle, with
its tail in its mouth, it indicates perpetual unison, and orbital
motion.
"There is a remarkable evidence of the universal use of
the serpent, as a vital figure, as found in the serpent ring
used by the Aztecs as a symbol of the sun, and unending
time.
"The serpent in a circle symbolizes orbital motion, gather
ing wisdom.
"This is sufficient, Doctor, to justify my own deduc
tions, and I shall insist that my adaptation of the motions
of the serpent to creative processes, revealing consecutive at
titudes, is original, until I have been shown evidence to the
contrary. Moreover, if it is hidden in the gnostic wisdom,
this concealment is to protect the christian church from ex
posure as a mere conglomerate mass of plagiarized ideas,
theories and doctrines. Reason exposes the christian false
The Awakening 121
pretense, therefore reason is suppressed, and condemned, along
with science and liberal education.
"I have attempted to apply unprejudiced reason, and
logic, in my examination, in order to trail the normal course
of mentation in the creative processes.
"There are five attitudes of the creative, conscious men
tation, and these may be reduced to chemistry :
Potential Nitrogen Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen
Unit
"These waves assume two distinctive states in the cre
ation of living matter.
"From the potential electron to the composite spiral is
positive. From the spiral molecule to the living material
cell is negative.
"Doctor, in the multiplicity of operations these two sets
of waves are unerring guides. This was the basis for the
traditional, gnostic wisdom. Embodied mentation followed
these natural guides as the Indians followed their trails, and
modern peoples their highways.
"When once started on its way the positive set of waves
may not be broken. The individual waves cannot regurgitate
back over each other, the undulations of each differing from
the others to avoid this very act. It is the physical which is
subject to accidents.
Q The original electron is the seat of potential wisdom, be
cause it contains the conscious purpose of releasing its
vital forces. It is a globule —an egg.
The cold nitrogen wave represents the released,
kinetic energy, a controlled expansion. Motion begets
a radiating heat, and heat begets light, and light reveals
knowledge.
122 The Awakening
The warm oxygen wave symbolizes revealed
wisdom, converted into free knowledge. Diffused light
is diffused knowledge. Light means intellect, or revela
tion with understanding.
|» 1 « . The carbon wave, the straight line of exhaus
tion, stability, and the absorption of primary, instinctive
knowledge, inspiring carbon to complete its destiny, and
assume the physical burden.
"Nature has wisely provided against the perpetuation of
the straight line, which tends to crystalization, by turning it
into a curvilinear course which executes a spiral. All bodies
cast out into space follow this course.
@ The hydrogen spiral, which culminates the positive series
—a neutralizing or equalizing body, holding the powers
of expansion, and contraction, a conscious control. This
is the primary sense of respiration, the magnetized elec
tric molecule containing all the creative forces, fortified
by their previous experiences, and having the power to
recuperate its own strength by attraction and absorption,
and the power to extend its functions by repulsion, as
observed in amoeboidal motion and division. Therefore
this is a living cell. Its formula is the well-known plasmic
cell —NOCH = 43, from which are born both animal and
vegetable life cells.
"These are repetitions, but they are of primary import
ance. It is highly possible that, under some conditions, these
waves assume elongated, spiral forms, especially if confined
in their course.
"As we have previously observed, this is a microscopic
world of solid and fluid matter, surrounded by an atmos
phere of nitrogen and oxygen, the model for all subsequent
material living bodies —especially the earth.
"And now, Doctor, I am prepared to demonstrate to
the world that this gnostic wisdom was stolen by the ecclesi-
asts from which to construct their fabulous Bible, prepara
The Awakening 123
tory to its exploitation of its hypocritical christian enter
prise. A ranker fraud was never perpetrated by men, be
cause it deprived mankind at large of education.
"I have never shown you to what extent I have delved
into this christian myth. It is sufficient for me to say, that
the whole scheme of plagiarism is revealed by a select ecclesi
astical code, only intended for the knowledge of the inner
clique.
"Jesus said to his disciples:
"
'Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the king
dom of God; but unto them that are without all these things
are done in parables' (Mark 4:11).
"A parable is a form of concealment.
"I have a big surprise for you, Doctor. It is my inter
pretation of the Genesistic creation of man on earth by the
ecclesiastic code.
"First it is likened to a tree.
"'To Seth was born a son Enos' (Gen. 4:26). Mortal
man, subject to fall.
Re&piratory Leaves
Expanding Limbs
Potential Fruit Seth—the Respira
tory Animals
Abel —Atmos
phere, Breath
Cain—Vegetation
Stabilizing Trunk Adam—Earth
Equalizing Root Eve—Life
Evi—Desire
Read from the spiral upward
124 The Awakening
Read from the electron downward
Potential Electron f J The Universal
Pabulum
Conserving Nitrogen Flesh —God
Expanding Oxygen I Muscle—Christ
Stabilizing Carbon f Bone—Man
Equalizing Hydrogen Marrow— Woman
"The tree is the 'earthy Adam' —the waves are the 'Lord
from heaven.'
"
'How be it that was not first which is spiritual, but
that which is natural, and afterward that which is spiritual.
"
'The first man is of the earth earthy ; the second man
is the Lord from heaven' (1 Cor. 15:46, 47).
"Now, Doctor, here is positive evidence of fabrication.
They reversed the two sets of waves, putting the negative
waves first, and the positive, or creative waves last, in order
to separate the common mortal which is a part of vegetation,
or earthy creation, and make the priesthood a special dis
pensation.
"Do you now understand why they so strenuously an
tagonize evolution?
The Awakening 125
"Do you now understand why, in the code, they liken
producing humanity to the earth? The code gives to the
earth the meaning, the producer, and to mankind the same
meaning.
"The first man was forbidden to partake of the second
tree, which means eternal life, and universal wisdom, and
here is the reason; this knowledge would reveal to man that
he was evoluted out of the respiratory animals.
"Look at this code, Doctor:
"Enos means mortal man, subject to temptation and fall.
Thus is revealed that the submersion of mankind, in sin
and evil, was a premeditated thing, for which every priest
in christendom should be put up against a wall and shot, or
burned at the stake, as they burned about fifty million inno
cent persons during their previous harvest, the inquisition.
"Can you grasp the horror of this murderous system?
"The first fall of man is symbolized by the falling apple.
Enos the earthy man hanging upon a tree.
"The first resurrection, is the rising up of a new tree.
"Now don't begin to cuss and throw things, Doctor,
when you fully grasp the contemptible attitude assumed by
this damned priesthood which conspired to eliminate the com
mon masses of humanity from a participation in the natural
rights, privileges and gifts intended for all men alike, that the
few might pose as dirty, indolent, non-productive, vulgar gods
on earth.
"Who are they?
"
'Behold the man is become as one of us; and now lest
he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and
eat, and live forever.
"
'Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the
garden.'
"Who are 'us.' The priesthood, of course.
"
'The garden' is a place of cultivation.
"This refers to the suppression of gnosticism, and the
casting of the masses of mankind into the darkness of ignor
ance, the 'dark ages' (486 to 1495).
126 The Awakening
"Sowing means a harvest at the end of a period, and
we are bluntly told:
" 'The field is the world ; the good seeds are the children
of the church ; but the tares are the children of the wicked—
those not of the church.
"
'The enemy that sowed them was the devil ; the harvest
is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels (agents
of the inquisition).
"
'As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the
fire, so shall it be in the end of this world.
"
'The son of man shall send forth his angels and they
shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend.
"
'And shall cast them into a furnace of fire. There shall
be wailing and gnashing of teeth' (Matt. 13).
"As we have previously been told in the Bible, God him
self sent the devil into the world to tempt and corrupt it.
"Once they pulled off this dreadful human harvest, mur
dering fifty million people. Right now the second harvest,
the second thousand years, is at hand, and humanity is being
trained for another slaughter, and the law is the two-edged
sword.
"Mind what I tell you, Doctor, right now, in the United
States, the people are being systematically legislated into crime
to bring all into a net. The nation is being taxed into pov
erty, and frightened into insanity, in preparation for the next
harvest. We are now living under inquisitional restraints and
irritations. Fear is being shot into humanity, and another
bloody end is near. The 'son of man,' the pope, is selected
to carry out this scheme. Jesus declares this was premedi
tated.
" 'Think not that I am come to send peace on earth ; I
came not to send peace, but a sword.
"
'A man's foes shall be they of his own household' ( Matt
10:34, 36."
"That is a sad picture you have painted, Grub. I am
shocked at some of the revelations you make, yet I must con
fess they seem logical and reasonable. I should like to study
The Awakening 127
these diagrams." And the Doctor reached for some of Grub's
manuscript. "Let's see. By an analysis of this wave system,
I understand we may follow these waves from a beginning
to a culmination, because of their consecutive continuity. That,
in my mind, is your greatest revelation."
"No, Doctor," said Grub. "My most important discovery
is,
that
it
is
of gnostic origin, and that the christian promoters
confiscated
it
—usurped
it
is
better. And we find reference
to the system throughout the Bible. This insidious practice
originally had a sinister motive, which
it
has ever since striven
to culminate."
"Well, insofar as modern knowledge of your wave theory
is
concerned, you may be named its discoverer," replied the
Doctor.
"I am willing to leave that to public opinion, but
I
shall
claim the honor of having exposed the raw fact, that the
whole christian scheme
is
based upon the traditional gnostic
system, which fact they have attempted to conceal from man
kind for mean, selfish ends and purposes," emphatically de
clared Grub.
"That
is
doubtless true," replied the Doctor. "But
I
want
to understand these diagrams more clearly. You seem to dem
onstrate here, that, while the vegetation
is
earthy, to the ex
tent that
it
is
attached to the earth, still the tree
is
used to
symbolize both vegetable and animals."
"Ah, that
is
a
good point, Doctor. The tree
is
used in the
ecclesiastical plagiarism to represent all life below the priest
hood as earthy. That
is
why you find the code meaning of
Adam
is
earthy, and that of common mankind as the produc
ing earth. Earth means the producer. Man proper
is
un
doubtedly
a
planetary image. His whole physical and organic
being reflects
a
composite picture of the planetary system.
Doubtless this
is
where the ecclesiasts conceived the idea of
the second Adam being made in the 'image and likeness' of
God in heaven, thereby promoting the priesthood above the
producing masses. This
is
born out by the fact that the
church has never looked upon the common people as other
128 The Awakening
than a means of support and promotion. It purposely crushed
the people into a plastic mass as a militant body, whereas it
left the priesthood a unit system, bound together by individual
oath."
"Yes, I can clearly vision man as a tree reversed," replied
the Doctor. "Where the tree draws nourishment direct from
the elements of the earth, it repays the earth with its dead
excrements. Whereas, man draws his nourishment from the
atmosphere, in the sense of the living fruits being produced
in the air. He, in turn, gives his waste excrements to the
earth for the benefit of vegetation.
"Man's detachment from the earth gives him freedom
which the vegetation does not enjoy, and an orbit of his own,
which guarantees to him a wide exercise of selectivity, if not
interfered with."
"There is a good illustration of our wave theory in this.
Moreover, it secretly reveals why the mob, as distinguished
from the priesthood, is earthy. I will demonstrate this," con
tinued Grub.
"We know the earth symbolizes the spiral culmination
of the primary set of waves originating in the electron.
"We have seen the tree rising out of the spiral and exe
cuting the secondary set of waves, culminating in the globular
fruit.
"We now find the system of animal nourishment arising
in this globular fruit and executing the waves back to the
spiral, as revealed by the animal excrement.
"You will at once recognize this last process as a sec
ondary, positive set of waves, as distinguished from the original
or primitive set.
"The priesthood is the personification of the primitive
set of waves, and earthy man is represented by the secondary
set of waves.
"In the scheme of nature the higher creations live off
the lower. Doubtless this is the principle upon which the
priesthood was founded, and now is supported.
The Awakening 129
"
'If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great
thing if we reap your carnal things?' (1 Cor. 9:11).
"Now the primary set of waves only can represent the
sowing of spiritual seeds. While all men, including priests,
represent the propogation of an animal species, therefor, all
men are born in the same class, and equal."
"That does not substantiate the theory that the gospels
are the gift of God. I'm beginning to absorb your antipathy
for the church tommy-rot, Grub," said the Doctor. "How does
it occur that God only deals with humanity at large through
a select few, if his blessings are free to all men alike?" And
the Doctor pushed the manuscript away.
"Doctor, in my opinion, the impudent pretense of a select
few, assuming to have been especially chosen to insolently
dictate the conduct of the balance of the human race, is the
most profane attitude ever assumed by men. There is not
one single thing in nature to justify the ecclesiastical usurpa
tion.
"Now, add to this the mean, dissolute, vulgar, and intem
perate priestly life, and you queer the whole civilizing struc
ture, because of catering to and coddling this usurpative thing,"
and Grub arose in his excitement, bundled up his manuscript,
and replaced them in his cabinet.
"Just a moment, Grub," said the Doctor. "At a suitable
time I wish you would attempt to make clear the part that
the Greek, Egyptian and Roman mythology has been merged
into the christian scheme."
CHAPTER XIII
"Doctor, I've been digging. Do I look mussed up?" said
Grub.
"What's the joke, boy? It seems to me you are always
digging," replied the Doctor.
"Well, I have uncovered about the biggest joke in the
christian scheme," said Grub. "They surely understood the
importance of rendering the masses of people ignorant before
they began to throw things about.
"Doctor, did you ever look up the significance of that
mysterious ecclesiastic joker, the word Abracadabra?"
"No, I have never had occasion to do so," replied the
Doctor.
"I bumped into it while interpreting the names associated
with the name Jesus," said Grub. "Let me enlighten you.
"The evidences of wilful plagiarisms by the ecclesiasts
are amazingly clear.
"In Mithraism—the religion taught by Zoroaster, Mithra
means the sunlight, and stands in the same relation to Ormug,
the supreme sun, as in christianity Christ the sun of right
eousness, stands to God the father.
"The christian schemers appropriated and concealed
Mithra in the name Abraxas, the root word of Abracadabra.
This was proven by the discovery that the word Abraxas had
identically the same mathematical value as Mithra, 365, and
had the same significance = the morning sun light. Ab-ra-
ca-da-b-ra.
"Ab = father, ra = the sun, ca = the Lord of light,
da = brilliant, b = breath, ra = the sun.
"This conceals :
"The father, the son, and the holy ghost, all in God.
"This is but another 'brilliant' fake to cover up the fact
that christianity is but a clumsy imitation of the Chinese, Per
sian and Egyptian sun-worship, poorly concealed in personi
fications, and symbolism.
130
The Awakening 131
"I am going to give you some surprises in my exposure
of the alleged 'immaculate' birth of Jesus.
"Zacharias was the high priest of the temple where Mary
was raised up from a child.
"Quoting from Waite : 'When Mary was twelve years old
she received her food from a virgin priest, and the priests
met in consultation to determine what to do with her.'
"The face of the church was in grave danger, so they
tried to put Mary onto an old man, Joseph, but he declined.
"They assured Joseph the young girl was with child by
the holy-ghost, and they insisted upon his taking her from
the church which he did. Now Joseph means increasing hu
manity, and Mary means rebellion.
"
'Upon Joseph finding her with child, he was going to
put her away, when an angel, a priest, appeared and dissuaded
him from
it,
thereby glorifying God.
"
'Mary protested her innocence, saying, she knew not
how
it
occurred.'
"Here
is
the contemptible attitude of the church when
caught red-handed.
"
'Joseph was brought before the priest and accused of
having violated her virginity, and was acquitted upon drink
ing holy-water.' Merely a bluff to give the impression that
the church knew nothing of it.
"But, when we refer back to the time of Noah, when the
repeopling of the earth began, we find positive evidence that
this 'immaculate conception' thing was premeditated from the
beginning. The first-born son of Shem was Elam. Elam
means
a
young priest,
a
virgin,
a
secret, and an age or epoch.
"It was
a
hundred years after the alleged crucifixion
of Christ, before the 'immaculate conception' fake was sug
gested, and
it
was not fully canonized until the middle of the
nineteenth century.
"David means carnal love, and he
is
named the father
of Jesus Christ (Matt. 1:1). Nevertheless, when David de
bauched the wife of Uriah, and she bore him
a
bastard child,
to save the face of the church God killed the child and for
132 The Awakening
gave David, but David killed Uriah, and took Bathshua, his
wife, as a concubine (2 Sam. 12:9).
"Uriah means light, intellect, education.
"Bathshua is Bathsheba.
"Bathshua means the oath of wealth.
"Bathsheba means the daughter of an oath.
"Daughter means posterity.
" 'There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea,
a certain priest, named Zacharias, of the course of Abia; and
his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was
Elisabeth' (Luke 1:5).
"Herod means heroic.
"Juda means approval.
"Abia means the Lord is my father.
"Abi means posterity.
"Zacharias means mindful of the Lord.
"Aaron means enlightenment.
"Elisabeth means God hath sworn, the oath of God.
"Let us see who old Zach really is. He was the juggler
in the 'immaculate conception' trick, so clearly revealed in
the foregoing.
"Z is a gnostic symbol associated with the 'subtle' serpent
symbolizing the all-seeing, progressive wisdom, omnipotence,
the father, looking both ways.
"Zeus means the omnipotent father, and he is pictured
as riding upon a zig-zag serpent which is none
other than our nitrogen wave.
"Z also represents the zig-zag flash of lightning.
"In the Greek, Z is Zeta meaning a flame of fire, of the
lesplendent A, meaning the primal cause.
"Undoubtedly having reference to the sun.
"The Hebrew Z, is Zayin, meaning a flame of fire.
"Zas is the Chinese sun-god.
"The ch in Zach is an abbreviated form of Jah or Je
hovah.
"Ar means watching, uncovered.
The Awakening 133
"Iah or ias has a masculine significance. Zacharias or ias
is the son of Barachias, meaning thunder. Barach, or Barak,
means lightning.
"Mary is derived from mer, mere, meaning the sea. She
is named queen of the sea.
"The great abyss, 'the coiled mother serpent of unrevealed
wisdom' dwelt in the primeval ocean. This, Doctor, is our
spiral.
"
'Darkness was upon the face of the deep and the spirit
of God moved upon the face of the waters' (Gen. 1
:2).
"Darkness means ignorance.
"Waters mean the multitudes of people.
"The ignorant masses have been wholly enthralled by
the sentimental fable of the virgin Mary. In the dark ages
half idiotic, so-called knights, would drop upon their knees
at the sight of a roadside shrine, to give the impression that
they were deeply religious, then they would reap a harvest
of blood, killing innocent women and children, and bring home
the spoils to the church. The crusades were inspired plunder
ing expeditions for gain.
"The miserable peasants, in like manner, would wallow
in the dust before these shrines, fearing some treacherous
priest might see them did they pass them by.
"Little did they know, that, when they gurgled their Ave
Maria, with heart breaking sobs, they were exclaiming 'hail
rebellion.'
"Mary means rebellion.
"The fake virgin Mary is designated by the catholic
church, 'our lady of wisdom,' and she stands as a symbol
of the church. She is also named the water-mother, which
enables us to grasp the hidden significance of the word virgin.
It is our gnostic spiral.
" 'And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she
was the mother of all living' (Gen. 3:20).
"Adam means the earth or earthy.
"Eve means life, motion, the sea.
134 The Awakening
"Here is another secret reference to the suppression of
intellect.
"Light is life, and life is intelligence.
"The withdrawal of life from the waters, means the with
drawal of light, intellect, from the people, for waters mean
the multitudes of people —another suggestion of the classing
of the masses with the ignorant vegetation.
"There is hardly a nation, whose history has come down
to us, that does not record, ages in advance of the christian
scheme, the existence of a savior God born of an 'immaculate
virgin' and not infrequently this virgin mother is named Maria,
Mere, or an equivalent word meaning the sea.
"Dionysos was born of the virgin Myrrha.
"Hermes, the Logos or word of the Greeks, was born of
the virgin Myrrha, or Maia.
"The mother of the Siamese savior was called Maya
Mariah. .
"The Chinese savior sun-god, Zas, was virgin born.
"All of these virgin mothers are resolved back into mer,
mere, mare, the sea.
"This truly reveals the great antiquity of the legendary
gnostic wisdom, handed down by tradition through long ages
of time. It also condemns the church for preaching Jesus
Christ literally, and him crucified. This cruel hoax has torn
the heart out of humanity, all these centuries, for the profit
it yielded to the grafting priesthood. 'Weaken your victim
before you plunder him.'
"Another convicting accusation of wilful fraud, and false-
pretense, is found in the fact that all these previous 'im
maculately born' things were born at twelve o'clock midnight
of December 24-25, and this includes the Chinese savior, and
the christian Jesus.
"So much for Mary, rebellion ; let us get acquainted with
the old man upon whom 'Zach' tried to put the sin of the
priesthood.
"In a righteous pretense of ignorance, the high-priest ac
cused Joseph of outraging Mary, after they had found her
The Awakening 135
in trouble in the temple. But this was all premeditated, and
was fixed up.
"Were this not all a mere figurative false-pretense, it
would, indeed, brand the church as a deceitful and dishonest
thing.
"As I have previously shown:
"Jesus is but the Greek form of the name Joshua. But,
where Joshua, the savior of the Jews, means increased wealth,
Jesus, increased church following, means joy and prosperity
for the church.
"Jo means increased, shua means wealth.
"Je means the ever-existent light, and sus means joy,
prosperity, sustenance. The word sow is derived from the
same root.
"Joseph, upon whom the church thrust the rebellious
Mary, against his protest, analyzes, Jo means increase, sephor
numbers.
"Increasing humanity was forced to carry the burden of
fathering and feeding the bastard priesthood, and supporting
the church.
"Fat-bellied priests have posed as cunning little Jesuses
through the centuries, and smeared their soft hands over wo
men in the confessional.
"Now, Doctor, this hypocrisy, and false-pretense, is
clearly exposed. We recognize the 'immaculate conception'
as the priesthood, born of the church, and fathered and fat
tened by slaving humanity, through a form of mental coercion
called religion.
"This is why Joseph could only be called a foster-father.
To foster means to nurse.
"Back in Genesis we find this explanation of Joseph hav
ing been sent into Egypt, meaning oppression and misery.
"Joseph says unto his brethren:
"
'God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity
in the earth' (Gen. 45:7).
"Posterity means a hereditary line of official priests.
"Earth means producing humanity.
136 The Awakening
"Merely to call your attention to
it,
Doctor, while
I
was
digging at this stuff,
I
found
a
remarkable reminder that the
gnostic wisdom and system covered the whole earth.
"The Snake Indians of Arizona (Horizona) are called
the Hopii, or Opii, which doubtless
is
cognate with the Greek
Ophis, or Opis, which again must originally have been the
Greek Apop or Apep. There
is
also
a
resemblance in the
Egyptian Apappus, meaning a giant; also in the Roman
Appii.
"Apep
is
the Egyptian name for the great serpent slain
by Horas, the sun of day in the Egyptian mythology. They
have an astonishing symbol among the Indian tribes —
a
cir
cular serpent with its tail in its mouth, and running through
the body
a
fine wave corresponding with our nitrogen wave
—unborn,
a
symbol of our electron.
"The meaning of this symbol
is
'universal union,' to circle
the earth.
"The word Arizona, or Horizona, undoubtedly
is
derived
from the Egyptian Horus, and the symbol form the original
gnosticism.
"Where did these American Indians get them
?
The oldest
continuously occupied town in the United States,
is
the pueblo
Acoma, Ac = mighty, om = sun,
a
= first cause.
"I also found another evidence of ecclesiastic imitation.
"The modern bride's shower of gifts comes from the
legend of Zeus, reaching the imprisoned Danae, in the guise
of
a
'golden shower.'
"At the present day, the Romanian virgin-bride approaches
the church altar in
a
bridal vail composed of showering golden
threads.
"In the Assumpta Maria of Francis Thompson, the virgin
bride, Mary,
is
identified with Danae.
Zeus at Dodo-na, means Dad —the one father. David
means Dodo, carnal love, and in Matt.
1
:1
David
is
named
the father of Jesus Christ.
"All these things condemn the christian idea of the 'im
maculate conception,' as the most vulgar, impudent and un
The Awakening 137
natural suggestion to be found in the whole Bible, and the
preaching of Jesus literally, and him crucified, is a rank
fraud."
"I must confess, Grub, you have perfected your case,"
said the Doctor. "I am not immune against conviction by
your remarkably clear demonstrations, but I am skeptical about
any revelation, be it ever so rank an exposure, being able to
arouse the greater masses of people from a state of dumb
indifference.
"The promoters of christianity know the terrors of re
vealed error; they having committed endless errors from the
beginning of their enterprise. They arbitrarily deny the pos
sibility of error on their part, on the dishonest pretense that
they are, in some mysterious manner, rendered immune against
all legal restraints, and all the laws of nature.
"Every man quickly admits that it is human to err; but
few men are willing to confess error on their own part—no
man will accuse himself without coercion. So serious a mat
ter is this, that nations insert in their law codes provision
against the forcing of men to testify against themselves. Nev
ertheless, bigoted police officials, criminally violate this, all
over this country, in applying their 'third degree' to accused
persons, a crime in itself more vicious than the crime usually
charged against the accused. The utter disregard for law
on the part of over-zealous officials is an imitation of the
ecclesiastic bigotry, and a feature of the inquisition.
"The habit of self-protection, due to fear of persecution,
is the stumbling block in the path of self-correction, and mass
reformation. It is unconscious habit, as well as conscious
practice, a form of cultivated mental dishonesty, used as a
protecting cloak, and justified by long and universal prac
tice, and custom.
"Another vicious institution is the confessional, which
shields as much crime, probably, as the law uncovers and
punishes.
"Habit is a tyrant which few can conquer.
"Back in the centuries the French nation practiced a
138 The Awakening
most cruel slave of criminal system in which the chain be
came a decoration. Upon becoming immune to conscious insult
the slaves became indifferent to their degredation. It be
came a mental and physical habit to a degree that they pre
ferred the condition to freedom.
"How loth are the papists to surrender their antique
and apish religious habits and practices, because of an habitual
fear of being accused of error. They have an absolute fear
to show habits and customs of modern life in the open.
"It required centuries to train the wild Irish and Scotch
tribes away from their monotonous existence in their moun
tain seclusion, where they lived upon the most meager and
primitive food, and to this day the cruder classes prefer to
slip back to the original jargon and personal habits.
"The kings of Fez, by long training, brought their vassals
under such an habitual form of slavery it became a semi-
religious fanaticism, and they were ready and willing to come
before their kings and submit to having their brains beaten
out, for sacrifice or punishment, without protest.
"Now, you will see my purpose in delivering to you this
lecture on error and habit. The ecclesiasts have always known
these underlying laws, and they have trained their militant
mobs into a state of inocuous desuetude, insofar as religious
beliefs are concerned.
"It rules the mob through habitual and mechanical cus
tom, and a cruel and oppressive mental suppression which
subjugates both mind and body.
"Long endurance begets abject indifference toward the
cause.
"Long-suppressed fear begets a morbid desire to remain
in one somnolent condition, rather than risk a worse condi
tion. No thought of betterment inspires hope.
"Those who have formed the habit of patient endurance
feel no urgent desire to forsake a long-established oppression
which bars their way to happiness and individual comforts.
"To persuade a people, thus chained, to change their
habits, is practically impossible, because, like the moribund
The Awakening 139
muscle, rendered useless by long disuse, there is a mental
lesion which prevents a return to those early contacts which
begat a desire for better livmg conditions. Hope dies. The
fire of long persecution has left the carbon but a lump of
charcoal, which cannot be restored to its pristine state. It
must await the day of dissolution of death and decay.
"The violent writhings and workings of maggots in a
putrifying body give no clue to the inner condition of the
individual worm. No more can we divine the thoughts of the
individual man, in the writhing mass of humanity, deprived
of initiative individuality under the rash despotism of organ
ized fanaticism, bent only upon constructing about itself a
plastic mass, a protecting militant mob, out of which has
been systematically cultivated all initiative reasoning power.
Behind this wall is concealed the individual priesthood, swathed
in luxuries, soothed by complacent leisure.
"The militant mob is immune against being persuaded
away from an attachment born of bigoted training. It has
no consecutive thought of its own, and it knows nothing of
reason. It is trained to resent accusation of error.
"When we examine the art of the church, we see only
the most disgusting suggestion of utter self abandon; col
lapsed bodies; open mouths; staring, scared eyes; hopeless
abandon and misery are pictured, to tear the human heart,
and to suppress individual hope and courage.
"This is a natural attitude of mental stress.
"Despair is the last attitude of those whose souls have
been lashed into submission by cultivated hysteria.
"This is the decorated wall which stands between the
church and exposure. As long as this wall of dumb obedi
ence, and blind indifference stands, just that long will the
church continue to live, thrive and fatten off humanity.
"When the church can no longer maintain this position
of protecting security, it is ever prepared to turn and rend its
own ignorant masses, as it has done before, and useless hu
manity will be slaughtered without the slightest compunction
of conscience.
140 The Awakening
"Remember the 'Massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day' in
Paris.
"Organization is the protecting wall of the church.
"Disorder, mixture and confusion, leave humanity a put-
rifying mass of writhing maggots."
CHAPTER XIV
: Grub was a little late in keeping the morning engage
ment. He came hurriedly into the library and began to apolo
gize.
The Doctor laughed, saying, "No apologies ; I'm quite well
entertained," and he held up a copy of "Martin's Human
Body." "I'm going to deliver a brief lecture right here in
the library this morning, to avoid the necessity for going to
night school to polish up on physiology.
"While I do not believe it wise for us to attempt to vindi
cate or to disprove our standard educational works, I do be
lieve we should consult these subjects to compare our work
with them. We could not dispense with what science has es
tablished as truth. The foundations of our astronomy, chem
istry and physiology are too firmly established for us not to
depend upon them for verification of the truth of our own
work. They long antedate the flimsy, whimsical christian
nonsense.
"When I took up this book I was shocked to find how
much I had forgotten through disuse. One may soon blur
their early learning by neglecting their school-day studies, to
stuff the brain with entertaining frivolities. I find I must
go back to my old text-books to find some of the materials
for our work this morning.
"Here it
is,
Grub, and
it
has to do with the elements
in the study of physiology which enter into our research —the
human anatomy, our physical structures, organs, nervous sys
tem, and our mentation. It
is
a tremendous subject in itself.
I
have been trying to simplify
it
by the application of your
series of primary waves.
I
am amazed to what extent they
reveal organic processes."
"Are you studying the human body as
a
special dispen
sation, or as an image and likeness of our planetary system,"
asked Grub.
141
142 The Awakening
"I have not arrived at that point yet," replied the Doctor.
"Well, did it ever occur to you, Doctor, that the chris
tian God, in making his clay man, gave him no organs?"
And Grub laughed. "He just blew him full of air, like a toy
balloon. It does not say it was hot air, but observation has
corrected that default, and while we are on this subject, do
you realize that when God put Adam to sleep, to steal one
of his ribs, he never awakened him?
"Moreover, if the man Adam was made in the image
and likeness of God, and was merely made of mud and air,
does not that make of God the same kind of creature? But
God would surely blush for shame could he vision some of
the ugly mugs called men here on earth now."
"Well, I guess you are quite right, but don't lead me
away from my purpose," said the Doctor.
"I have been studying the human body and its sensations.
We must admit our experiences come under sensation.
"The physical divisions of the human body are very well
identified with their special functions, and, moreover, it is
curious how they correspond with your wave continuity.
"Let us first examine the head. It fitly symbolizes the
position of the potential electron, out of which all else is
born in the unfoldment of a system.
"Form, more or less globular.
"Protection, skull, skin, hair, teeth.
"Features, exposed face and organs, expressing life.
"Special sense organs, eyes, ears, nostrils, mouth.
"Special senses, seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting.
"These organs, and these functions, have a far greater
significance than we commonly attribute to them, proving that
we are created for a greater purpose than to merely repro
duce, and feed our faces.
"The basic sensations largely dependent upon the head.
"These are physical, and due to temperature and pressure :
"Pain.
"Pleasure.
"Anger.
The Awakening 143
"Hunger.
"Thirst. ':
"Nausea.
"Satiety.
"Fatigue.
"Rest.
"Recuperation.
"External contacts of special sense organs:
"Eye excited by etheric vibrations.
"Ear excited by electric vibrations.
"Nose excited by chemical action.
"Mouth excited by muscular action.
"Skin excited by variations of temperature, contact and
pressure.
"All of our sensations therefore are but modifications
of one primary consciousness.
"The head is the seat of reason and sensation, therefore,
it is the censor of the body. Upon a careful examination we
find this is amazingly true. We give too little thought to
such vital matters.
"All of the commonly recognized nourishments of the
body are first submitted to the inspection of the head before
being passed on into our body for assimilation. We quickly
observe that your waves become the guides.
"The vibratory absorption through the eye and ear to
nourish our brain and nervous system.
"The gaseous for respiration through the nostrils.
"The solid, through our mouth to nourish our tissues.
"The fluid through our mouth to maintain circulation.
"Do you see how wonderfully it adjusts itself to the
system of waves. Look :
"Truly NOCH = 43 is an inspired formula, and the
primary plasmic cell, in which resides the first spark of
embodied life, and I believe it is the carrier of all potential
wisdom."
"Did I understand you to say you found all this in a
text-book?" asked Grub.
144 The Awakening
Impulse Vibratory Gaseous
Nerves Flesh Muscles
Will Sensation Action
Adjustment Cold Warm
Consciousness Seeing Hearing
Assimilation Selection Acquisition
Solid
Bones
Fluid
Marrow
Stability Circulation
Dry
Tasting
Moist
Smelling
Distribution Digestion
"I should say not," replied the Doctor.
"I have not completed the process. Wait.
"After digestion we must expect an elimination of the
excrements.
"It is manifest that the acquisition of substances, if
they may be named substances, by the eye and ear, must be
promptly absorbed into the medullary matter of the brain
and nervous system as nourishment, therefore this elimina
tion must be expressed through speech and physical action,
and right here we have a great problem ready to unfold.
"Every system must contribute nourishment to that which
supplies it with food.
"Every system produces a living excrement, its fruit,
and a dead excrement, its waste —life aspires upward, death
drops downward.
"The mental process follows this identical law. Speech,
and its equivalent, is the living fruit of mentation, and it is
the contribution our mentation returns to the universal store
of wisdom.
"Vital energy is the spent production of mentation, and
it is deposited in the earth, the body, to fertilize the tissues
and give the body physical action to enable it to seek material
nourishment as well as carry us to vantage points for the
replenishment of our mental larder.
"Now, Grub, I believe I have helped, some, toward iden
tifying our contact with the universal pabulum, and it is all
that you have believed it to be.
"Selectivity is a living fact. We subconsciously select
from a pabulum, all that may be known by living, physical
The Awakening 145
bodies, the materials essential to our requirements, and we re
pay the debt by our mental eliminations, and we compel the
physical body to repay the earth for the material things taken
from
it,
gaseous, solid and fluid.
"Do you now recognize Canaan, the son of Ham, the
servant of Shem and Japheth? Merchandising and trading
in the marts of nature.
"This
is
the basis for that impudent assumption that
the priesthood
is
entitled to our material products in exchange
for their fraudulent spiritual things. They pose as gods breath
ing upon the common herd the universal breath.
"The mechanical process of elimination
is
very plain.
"While we undoubtedly exhale our thoughts into the at
mosphere, with every breath we breathe,
I
believe that the
law of selectivity chooses that which is worthy to pass into
the great universal mind, and all worthless thoughts fall back
to the earth to be absorbed and destroyed, as we, in like man
ner, select our nourishment.
"The quality of our thoughts depends upon our mental
nourishment
;
how important therefore
is
it
that we seek and
select only that which inspires the best quality of thought.
"This enables us to realize the awful crime of submerg
ing humanity in gross ignorance.
"It
is
a self-evident fact, that,
if
we are impoverished
to
a
wage only sufficient to keep body and soul together, we
cannot contribute nourishment to others. The same identical
law applies to mental starvation. If the people are bound in
ignorance, they can contribute nothing towards the intellect
of others. If they are bound in poverty, they cannot 'buy
wisdom.'
"Exhalation from the lungs also sends forth, as an excre
ment, carbon dioxide. This
is
the gaseous excrement from
the thorax.
I
believe this element carries unspoken thought
into the atmosphere to be absorbed by vegetation. The vege
tation inhales carbon dioxide through its leaves. This reci
procity between the respiratory animals, and the vegetation,
is
symbolized by Seth, meaning compensation. Moreover,
146 The Awakening
this breath of vegetation is symbolized by Abel, meaning
breath. As we inhale our inspiration from the original source,
vegetation inhales our exhalation.
"This is- a most instructive subject, Grub. It is a per
fect demonstration of action and reaction. Moreover, it proves
the cyclic process in nature. Our breath is planetary. The
bieath of vegetation is earthy.
"The respiration of animals is a positive process, draw
ing its breath from universal sources, whereas the respira
tion of vegetation is a reactive process, carrying the excre
ment product of animal respiration back to the earth.
"Hence, God exclaims to Cain, vegetation, 'The voice of
thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground' (Gen.
4:10).
"This means the oxygen carried into the earth through
the inspiration of the vegetation.
"This Bible stuff proves, conclusively, that ecclesiasticism
did have a full knowledge of the gnostic wisdom.
"Oxygen is the most widely distributed and most active,
of the four primary elements. It constitutes one-fifth of our
atmosphere; eight-ninths of our water, and one-half the hard
crust of the earth ; hence it well represents the blood so widely
distributed throughout our own bodies. The accusation
against Cain is a vicious assault upon an absolutely essential
process in nature, and reflects to the discredit of Christian
ideas.
"We may at once see the fallacy of the christian per
sonifications. Oxygen is the chemical symbol of Christ, who
is sent into the earth to mingle with the earthy elements. In
the vegetation he rises up as a living, breathing thing, em
bodied in a material form which binds him to the tree. This
is a form of crucifixion. Not until he appears in the form
of the respiratory animals does he receive the 'holy-ghost,' or
breathe the pure atmosphere. Holy-ghost means breath.
"The first birth is of the water, the second birth is of
the spirit.
The Awakening 147
"
'Except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom
of God' (John 3:3).
"
'Except a man be born of water and of the spirit he
cannot enter into the kingdom of God.' Now, the kingdom
of God is the living things of the earth, and God is man.
"Jesus himself declares:
"
'Is it not written in your law, I said ye are gods?' (John
10:34).
"But, the 'God of all gods' is of heaven.
"He is ever existent; hence he is above the men gods
of the earth.
"
'A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from
heaven' (John 3:27).
"
'He that cometh from above is above all ; he that is
of the earth is earthy' (Jno. 3:31).
"Can you see why man was named the earth, meaning
producing mankind?
"This man was only a god in the sense that he con
trolled the productive things of the earth—'the fish of the
sea, the fowl of the air, and the beast of the fields' (Gen.
2:28)
"Who then is that great and mightly God of all? Why,
he's the wise guy who conceived and worked out this chris
tian scheme.
"Heaven means ecclesiastical government.
"He appropriates the atmosphere as his place of abode,
and the common herd are bound to toil and misery on the
earth.
"That this was a premeditated thing is evidenced by the
following :
"
'Thus saith the Lord, the heaven is my throne, and the
earth is my footstool' (Is. 66:1).
"The fatal error made by the ecclesiasts was, that, it
did not destroy its secret code. It classes the common masses
with the lower animals, with the earth as their place of resi
dence, hence man is 'of the earth earthy.'
"It classes the priesthood as of heavenly origin, from
148 The Awakening
whence come the pristine elements, the spiritual — breath.
Hence, as the 'son of God' the 'immaculate' Jesus, is but the
oxygen element in the primitive creative wave passing into
the earthy body to rise as the 'son of man.' Its residence
in the atmosphere is symbolized by the 'Garden of Eden'
which means a place for cultivation. The atmosphere means
a surrounding of special deportment, an air of refinement,
mien and godly austerity.
"If there is any doubt about this meaning the priest
hood, and that it was not intended that the common man
should indulge in education and refinement, this will make
it clear.
"
'Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good
and evil; and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever: —therefore, the
Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden, to till
the ground from whence he was taken' (Gen. 3:22, 23).
"
'This tree of wisdom' is the the traditional gnostic wis
dom, which taught that enlightenment, knowledge, understand
ing and education, place men in contact with the universal
mentation, and create an essenic eternal existence.
"I have extended my lecture longer than I expected, but
while we are on this particular subject it is better to finish
it while it is fresh in our minds.
"We have examined the excretions of the head and
thorax.
"The abdomen eliminates the solid wastes produced by
digestion.
"The pelvic organs eliminate the fluid excrements, hence
it also is the seat of reproduction.
"The whole process of elimination adjusts itself to our
waves, which again become our guide for tracing mysterious
processes, revealing a continuity of physical and organic action.
"There is a natural law compelling all systems requir
ing nourishment to cultivate those things upon which they
depend for support. It is a system of compensation, of which
respiration is the plainest example.
The Awakening 149
OvAAT
Head
Brain
Thought
Pace
Tongue
Speech
Thorax
Lungs
Respiration
Abdomen
Stomach
Digestion
Pelvis
Kidneys
Elimination
"Source, kind, attraction and repulsion cover the process
of nourishment.
"We will advance what seems to be a logical proposition.
"If the universal pabulum carries a potential wisdom, it
must necessarily derive this from some logical source, and it
must be of a character suitable to be assimilated by the bodies
absorbing it.
"To seek and absorb this wisdom intimates understand
ing—wisdom converted into available knowledge.
"Nature undoubtedly creates her physical organic crea
tures for some logical purpose, the greatest purpose being
to express her potential wisdom in understandable forms.
These forms are reflected into the great unembodied men
tation as permanent images, to be revealed as useful knowl
edge, as we systematically produce and store away excess
food, to be drawn upon as necessity requires. Nature thus
stores in her potential bin excess wisdom for her living crea
tures to draw upon according to their natural ability, and
these living bodies are cultivated to bear fruits and pay trib
ute, to replenish the store of universal wisdom, like attract
ing like. Hence, it is possible that vegetation inhales its in
spiration from animal expiration.
"The psychic eliminant of the human brain is our con
tribution to the store of universal wisdom. We may, by con
centration and mental desire, draw upon that endless supply
and convert the potential wisdom into practical knowledge
for useful purposes.
"It is not a matter of human whim, or official dispen
sation. We must partake of the tree of life and wisdom, and
150 The Awakening
contribute to its support, whether we want to or not, or
whether a non-productive priesthood likes it or not. Nature
is no respecter of persons. This is the true origin of :
"
'I perceive that God is no respecter of persons' (Acts
10:34).
"Moreover, unhampered in our loyalty to nature, we may
cultivate our own 'Garden of Eden,' because nature endows
us with a secret power of thought, reason and deductive
analysis, which neither the christian God, nor the Christian
devil, can take from us, except by forcing us into a state
of ignorance akin to imbecility. No man can build without
materials. No man can live without food. No system can sur
vive without constant nourishment and renewal, and all must
pay. Nature abhors a beggar.
"When the machine stops production stops. It is the God
nature within us which sees, hears, and understands.
"The false and fraudulent doctrines of an individual spirit
or soul after death, and the resurrection of the physical body
long after death and visible dissolution, are palpably but bribes
to deceive innocent humanity. They should be rudely sup
pressed by law."
"But, Doctor, how about an essenic state after the death
of the body?" asked Grub.
"My boy, you really have guessed the great secret," softly
replied the Doctor. "The mind is not a personality or indi
viduality. We are already living the essenic life. It is eternal.
We are but temporarily using this material mechanism. When
we lay it down we but withdraw from
it,
as
a
cumberance no
longer essential to nature's purposes. Hence, the law itself
commits
a
crime against nature by taking human life.
"We should rejoice at the prospect
of
being relieved
of
the dreadful hardships
of
physical being. Each living being
must fulfill his mission or fall short of fulfilling his cycle,
with perhaps dire penalties. Nature quickly removes all use
less beings, and this may be the material excrement of physical
life."
The Awakening 151
"How may we know that we eare living the perfect life,"
asked Grub.
"We are not. There is but one absolute test. Nature
originally intended that mankind, its highest created thing
upon this earth, should form a conscious, understanding con
tact with the universal mentation. It was intended that all
men should have a thought in common, which would har
monize man with nature's purposes.
"But, an accursed priesthood, bent upon self-glorifica
tion, broke all human contact with the universal purpose, and
mankind is doomed to live out the remaining period of its al
lotted time on earth, in oppression, misery, affliction and
imbecilic ignorance. The lesion is a physical one which can
not be mended."
"And is there no remedy by which those who know the
truth, yet may not correct the error, may soften their own
afflictions, and encourage others to live in patient belief the
end may alleviate their suffering?" asked Grub.
"We, perhaps, are as near to such a remedy as any liv
ing beings, today. It remains to be learned to what extent
we may improve our position," softly replied the Doctor.
"Must we consider our task completed," plaintively asked
Grub.
"No! No!" exclaimed the Doctor. "We have just
begun to live. We have awakened gnosticism, the only hope
of humanity, and now we must nurse it back to its former
powers with the hope that, possibly, somewhere, concealed
in its wisdom, there may be a remedy which may heal the
mental lesion which stands between the embodied mentation
and the parent universal body of eternal wisdom. Wisdom
is interpreted by a living contact which reveals knowledge,
and develops understanding. As long as our mentation is
housed in its human, physical body, we shall be able to
vision or sense forms. Our trance condition is not the con
dition originally intended by nature, but it demonstrates the
possibility of universal contact. Nature originally intended
the universal contact should be a waking, a fully conscious
152 The Awakening
state. In our trance state, we practically suspend contact
between our subconscious being and our physical body, thus
partially eliminating the physical hindrance. The lesion is
in our medullary structures.
"We do not think with our tissues, but we do use our
bodies to express our thoughts in forms already created in
the universal pabulum. We absorb and digest these as our
mental food. Here, again, selectivity is exercised. Our head
censors all that enters into our body.
"We must at an early time take up a critical examina
tion of the human brain and nervous system. Although he
was a treacherous jesuit, we must not treat lightly Descartes'
idea of the rudimentary brain centre which he called a 'third
median eye,' for it is the logical point where our lesion should
occur. It is in the pineal gland, usually called the 'seat of
the soul.
"It is an astonishing fact, Grub, that you have been
juggling serpents as the revealers of wisdom, and in the ser
pent, this pineal gland is more fully developed than it is in
the human brain, and the ecclesiasts named the serpent wisest
of all created things.
"We must now rest and trust to inspiration for our
tomorrow's work."
"I must confide to you, Doctor, my manifestations are
taking a peculiar turn. My pencil insists upon drawing
sketches of both astronomical and Biblical things. I think
I shall be able to demonstrate this before we complete our
work," said Grub.
CHAPTER XV
The Doctor and Grub passed quickly into their trance
condition, finding themselves in Rome.
"It surely is a rusty old town," whispered Grub.
"No one ever attempted to locate a beauty show in
Rome," grunted the Doctor.
Cronus now greeted them and took them in hand, saying :
"You are now in the most history-ridden city the world
has ever known, a dirty old dump of bunk and junk. There
are enough rotting, broken walls here to build a large city,
but every broken brick is stamped sacred to some past human
error.
"If one-tenth part of the amount spent upon the fickle
glorification of Rome, as the seat of ecclesiasticism, had been
expended upon the education and promotion of humanity, the
world would not now be wallowing in inspired ignorance,
insanity and crime.
"Whether patrician or plebe, the Romans, after the time
of Constantine, all had about them the odors of the Roman
catholic deceit and hypocrisy.
"These vast piles of ruins do not alone register a decay
ing, material city ; they are the tombs of misspent glory, and
a fit monument to a degenerate age. When egotism and in
sanity ruled supreme, and overweening ambition spat in the
face of decent earnest efforts to advance human education
and understanding of the purposes of civilization.
"Now, Rome is but a junk-pile of the offal and excre
ments of a system once exploited by a low, vulgar, half-
demented priesthood, seeking to establish over developing civ
ilization as a universal, theocratic form of super government,
primarily for their own selfish aggrandizement, and the ac
cumulation of great wealth. Today the church stands as the
richest organization in the world, all of which has been
wheedled and forced out of humanity by devious forms of
coercion.
153
154 The Awakening
"The most embarrassing thing to ask of a priest
is,
for
him to name, or point out, one single benefit to humanity
rendered by the church which could not have been rendered
by civil governments at tremendously less sacrifice.
"Concealed behind
a
mass of plagiarized doctrines, con
fiscated from all previously known religions, back to the orig
inal Chinese sun-god of six thousand years ago, the ecclesia
erects about itself high walls to protect
it,
not only from
the intrusion of men, but from the eye of the law.
"All churches are erected as places of refuge, as the Bible
names the refuge cities where murderous priests may flee
for safety, as Moses fled to Midian when he committed
murder.
"Do you ask for visible proof? Look!" and Cronus
pointed to an ancient squat building of no great pretensions
in point of external architecture.
"The Pantheon!" he exclaimed.
"The name convicts
it,
signifying, as it does, the tomb
of all past religions. The dead husks from which the more
attractive doctrines were plagiarized to construct one uni
versal church —the catholic church of Rome.
"Catholic means universal.
"Pan-theon means all in one.
"Ecclesia means government.
"Thus, you see, the fabulous Pantheon, as the name im
parts,
is
the 'Temple
of
all the Gods' which the superstitious
follies of fanatical men have feigned, through gross ignor
ance of the truths which
a
generous nature intended for all
men alike.
"Now the Pantheon
is
the acknowledged tomb of dis
carded religious absurdities—the excrement of spent hypocrisy.
"Plastered upon its walls, in chronological jumble, are
pictures of the gods of past ages.
"In its gloomy, loud-smelling vaults we find the material
evidence that this
is
the burial place for past and spent re
ligious fakes—the rotting bones of christian bunkum. Here
were dumped twenty-eight cartloads of 'bones of the saints'
The Awakening 155
and here they lie in an unrecognizable mass. Isn't that suffi
cient to bring contempt upon the christian exploitation?
"Seven hundred years after her alleged time, this rot
ting tomb was made the last resting place of the 'Virgin Mary,'
Pope Boniface IV, dedicating the Pantheon as the christian
church of 'Mary and the saints,' and this empty shell be
came the end of that myth.
"It is a pathetic thing to know that Jesus Christ repudi
ated the 'virgin Mary' as his mother, and then the priest
hood should cast her into a bin of rotting bones.
"But this was not the end of such profanity. In 1623
Pope Urban VIII confiscated the bronze ornaments off the
dome of this tomb of the 'mother of God,' to form a canopy
over his own sacred altar in St. Peter's."
"Huh!" grunted Grub, "some one will have a heck of
a job patching the bones of these saints together, and drag
ging their souls from beneath the 'altar of God' (Rev. 6:9)
and fitting them to these skeletons, on the great day of the
final resurrection."
"I can see nothing particularly edifying about this junk-
pile, Cronus," said the Doctor.
"Quite right," replied Cronus. "Come, we may find the
great Colosseum more entertaining.
"Oh, I wanted to ask when this bone-dump was erected,"
put in Grub.
"Allegedly by Agrippa, in the year 27 B. C, but there
is such a confusion in dates concerning its origin, even I
cannot speak without adding to the mystery," replied Cronus.
"But its mythological decorations are undoubtedly intended
to assemble all the ancient religions under one roof to sug
gest a universal church, and, if a church, why not a theocracy?
Hence they plagiarized the name ecclesia, the name of the
legislative body which so cruelly ruled ancient Athens, that
by multiple taxation all property was confiscated by the gov
ernment."
"Huh ! That sounds like taxation in the United States,"
grunted the Doctor. "Maybe the recent suggestion that, in
156 The Awakening
the event of another war the government should confiscate
all property and wealth is an inspired thing, like the finger
printing of all the people. There must be some treacherous
conspiracy still lurking back of human government. If these
contemptible things should actually be put in force, all men
would go mad and run amuck."
"Your remarks are not inconsistent, Doctor. It will not
be long before all your people will be made criminals by law,"
said Cronus (Rom. 3:19).
"But, here we are. What do you think of this old rock-
quarry," and Cronus pointed to the vast pile of ruins which
once was the Colosseum, in all its glory—'gory' would be a
more appropriate word.
"Quarry?" said Grub, looking inquiringly at Cronus.
"I will explain that later," said Cronus.
The vast eliptical amphitheatre yawned before them like
the open mouth of a great monster.
"All the written pages in profane history could not re
late the whole tragic story of this blood-soaked arena," said
Cronus. "It is one thousand six hundred and seventy-one
feet in diameter and was capable of holding eighty thousand
spectators to witness the death struggles of wild beasts, to
kill and devour each other, or beasts destroy men, or men
each other.
"This horrid pastime was called the 'sports of the arena'
—'the sports of the gods."
"This vast slaughter-pen, to thrill blood-thirsty rulers,
and their noble followers, was erected by the emperors Ves-
pacion and Titus, between 75 and 80 A. D. at an expense suf
ficient to have built a metropolis. It, like all other great out
lays of human energy and sacrifice, was erected in honor of
a human hero-god—Nero, one of the meanest rulers of men
history records.
"The name Nero means —ner = lamp, o = disc of the
sun.
"For four hundred years, this arena was saturated with
innocent blood, much of which was human. You may still
The Awakening 157
look into the dens wherein wild beasts were starved till they
would devour both man and beast in the arena, midst the
shouts of crazed spectators.
"You will observe that only about one-third of the original
structure remains, the balance having been confiscated mainly
by the popes of Rome for building purposes. That is the
usual respect shown by the catholic powers toward the works
of ordinary men. Truly the modern devours the antiquated,
as the modern god swallows all previous gods.
"Something is always found devouring the excrements
of the ages, 'sacred history' is the living fruit and 'profane
history' the excrement. We feed our school children upon
profanity.
"The vulgar desire of men to glorify themselves has
consumed nine-tenths of the whole human energy. The idi
otic doctrine of national grandeur has caused all the great
wars, and impoverished the people of the world. Patriot
ism is a form of hysteria.
"One-half the money allegedly spent for public improve
ments in the United States is pure graft, to maintain in a
multitude of unnecessary offices the political hangers-on, with
the country literally wallowing in poverty and hunger.
"Did you ever attempt to learn how vast sums of money
spent in bribing the way of candidates into office, are re
turned to the alleged donors? If you do not know, then
check up each official elected and learn the number of rela
tives, and political field workers, who are lapping the cream
off the public treasuries.
"Europe, long ago, passed through this. England, for
instance, could not tax the people for sunlight, but every ray
of light entering the homes of the people was taxed by a
tax put upon windows through which it passed.
"Do you suppose nature forgives such blasphemies ? Well
I, time, am the official measurer. Reaction equals action,
and reaction is inevitable.
"The United States is but a century and a half old. Its
mixture and confusion of races, languages, and political tyr
158 The Awakening
anny, marks its future port as clearly as a mariner's chart
points the nose of his vessel towards the port of his destina
tion. You do not seem to realize that your nation is a com
posite nation. It is a conglomerate mass of conflicting ele
ments, each attempting to enslave or devour all the others.
There is no visible mercy or discretion. Every nation of
Europe is whetting its teeth to devour its juicy slice, when
the hour of allotment comes. The day is not far distant.
"The church teaches self-sacrifice, but you do not find
it practicing what it preaches. Did it exhibit the spirit of
self-sacrifice when it used its every power and strength to
deprive all the people of the beverages which had been enjoyed
through all ages, and which God demanded by law, and Jesus
Christ himself made? No, the church saw to
it,
that its wine
cellars, and the wine cellars of the Jews, working with
it,
were
exempted.
"Little did the ignorant masses realize that the nation
was being betrayed into a violation of its own constitution,
by adding an amendment which brought the churches under
the protection which had been practically denied it up to this
time.
"Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and others of the early
presidents, strenuously vetoed every effort to amend the pro
vision of the constitution forbidding legislation recognizing
religion.
"If an almightly God could not make his church, and his
priesthood, self-sustaining, but wholly dependent upon human
sacrifice, why the necessity for such
a
God, and his all con
suming church?
"History, and statistics, prove, beyond all refutation, that
the evils which the church pretends to correct, have systemati
cally increased every hour since its introduction."
"You seem very bitter on this subject, Cronus," said the
Doctor.
"Ah! If you could know all that
I
know of the hypoc
risy, deceit, intrigue and false-pretense of the secret ecclesi
astic power, you, too, would be bitter," replied Cronus. "But,
The Awakening 159
let us see more of Rome, the seat of this intrigue against
humanity at large. You will not soon desire to return here.
It smells like the tombs of Egypt, and its atmosphere is not
sweetened by the odors arising from the vatican garbage-cans,
and papal intrigues.
"The catholic church names Rome as the seat of all gov
ernments, and the vatican as the heart of civilization —what
contemptible egotism.
"The catholic propaganda has its roots in Rome, and,
like a poisonous vine, it creeps into the heart of every nation
to cultivate evil, upon which it feeds. Jesuitry is the nitro
genous bacteria concealed beneath its surface, to fasten its
tendrils upon all it seeks to secretly confiscate. You know
that your spiral symbolizes absorption.
"It closely follows the law of nature which requires every
system to cultivate and fertilize that upon which it depends
for support. It is a self-evident fact, that, had the church
not originally brought evil into the world, there could have
been no foundation for a church. It is equally true, that, were
there no evil in the world, there would be no necessity for
the church. It is to be supposed that endless thousands of fat-
jowled, pig-bellied priests would deliberately destroy the es
sential elements upon which they fatten?
"At your convenience turn to Romans 3:19, and you will
know why evil thrives. All men should shall be legislated
into crime, and your government is exercising its whole leg
islative forces to fulfill this damnable purpose. You are so
smothered in criminal laws, it is impossible to enumerate them.
Crime, and human necessity, are the most highly commercial
ized things in the United States."
"Again I must suggest that you are severe in your criti
cisms," said the Doctor.
"Again I reply, time knows all. You will also know the
horrible truth in due time. I am doubly inspired to vent my
knowledge here in Rome, the cradle of all the evils which
have beset younger nations. Now we shall examine some of
160 The Awakening
the slats in this sin-rocked cradle," and pointing to an ele
vated part of the city, Cronus exclaimed:
"There is the beginning. You may draw your own de
ductions. On that Mount Palatine, in 753 B. C, was estab
lished a rendezvous of safety for all the renegade thieves,
robbers, murderers and rogues of Europe. This 'city of ref
uge' became the model for Biblical 'cities of refuge,' and for
subsequent walled monasteries for refuges where monks and
priests might escape from the world which they were planning
to loot. Here was raised the first banner of defiance, which
has become the flag of the spirit of war in every nation.
"That was the beginning of Rome. Similar refuges have
been established throughout the world by the catholic propa
ganda. So vicious and obtrusive did these monastic dens be
come, especially England and France broke them up, expell
ing the inmates from the countries, and confiscating their
properties. It reflects no credit to the United States that
monasticism and Jesuitry are safely established, and well pro
tected there, and, you should blush that the earliest colonies
in the United States were founded by fugitive criminals from
the prisons of Europe, especially England.
"Ah ! Here we have before us the most hated structure
in Europe, Castle Saint Angelo. The mother, in hellish tor
tures, of the 'Tower of London,' and the 'Bastille of Paris.'
"The most vulgar art of all the world once decorated
its walls, so gross the world's great art galleries dare not
reproduce them.
"Well may it be named the mother of cruel prisons. It
housed the victims of savage beasts who desired to put their
hated opponents where they could be gradually tortured to
death.
"But come, let us see the key-stone of catholocism, St.
Peter's.
"Here we stand in the great 'Plaza di s. Pietro.' It was
built under Popes Alexander VII and Clement IX, 1657-1667.
"Observe the two hundred and eighty-four great columns,
eighty-six pilasters and ninety-six statutes. Like the confisca
The Awakening 161
tion of the copper from the church of the 'Mother of God,'
the Pantheon, and the stone from the Colosseum, the obelisk
in the centre of the circle was confiscated from the ancient
'city of the sun,' Heliopolis, and brought to Rome by Pope
Sixtus V. He had placed upon its summit a catholic cross.
"Pause and ponder the vulgar vanity of these popes. They
thus appropriate a monument erected to the Egyptian sun-
god, and patch it up with a cross to stand as a monument to
the fabulous christian God. Isn't that a Jewish trick?
"The christian church is but a fence for stolen doctrines.
"To illustrate the utter nonsense of this godly stuff, large
portions have been demolished and replaced with features
meeting with the whims and ideas of various popes, at tre
mendous expense. Of all the junk-piles in the world, St.
Peter's represents the greatest vain conceit of men, and the
greatest human sacrifice of energy misspent.
"We will now stroll upon the Cor so Vittorio to the Foro
Romano.
"Here we are. Originally this was covered with marshes,
and periodically inundated by the rise of the river Tiber.
"In former times the Forum consisted of two squares,
of which the smaller-r-near the church of S. Adriano, was
the Comizio, and was used for voting purposes. The other
was the real Forum, or place of business, promenade, and
games. When the area was drained, the courts were built in
the Forum, and the Curia (senate hall) in the Comizio, and
the rostrum for the orators, where more foolishness was
spouted than may be heard in an extra session of the United
States Congress. They did about everything in the Forum
but train fleas (these ran wild). Around this hole in the
ground rose temples, and the dwellings of the pontiffs. Here
also were held sports and games to shame humanity with their
cruelty.
"It was so popular the christian God turned the pagan
buildings into christian churches, to get into the push.
"Ha ! Then came along one Roberto Guiscardo, and Bran-
caleone, and destroyed the whole show, leaving only a few
162 The Awakening
of the broken land-marks to show the power of God left on
earth.
"Is it not strange that deluded humanity does not recog
nize these palpable evidences of the absurdity of the christian
God character?
"You may always find a conspicuous pope attaching him
self to the tail of the advertising kite. In 1536, Pope Paul III,
who had defied Europe by adding the fourth vow to jesuitry,
making him the master of that sinister order and making it a
militant branch of the catholic church, conceived the idea of
using the defunct Forum to demonstrate the growing papal
power. He opened up a triumphal way through the Forum
for the solemn entrance of Charles V, the emperor of Ger
many, into Rome. Charles laughed so loud it shook all Rome.
"In 1513 Pope Leo X had begun the excavation in the
Forum, but the sacking of Rome by the troops of Constable
de Bourbon, in May, 1527, stopped this work.
"Clement VII was elected pope in 1523, and he was prac
tically compelled to crown Charles V emperor of Germany.
"Charles was a bad boy, and began to shove Clem, about in
a manner to offend the papal dignity, therefore the pope
drew his tried and trusty blade, political intrigue, and began
to place obstacles in the way of Charles' success. He formed
a league against him, calling it the 'holy league,' because he,
the 'pope,' the 'vicar of Jesus Christ,' and the 'image of God'
on earth, was at the head of it. The king of France, the
king of England, the Venetians, and the vatican, constituted
this ungodly combination.
"Well, when Charlie learned of this audacious proposition
he cussed a blue streak, and to make his resentment more in
sulting, he sent an army composed of Lutherans to Rome.
They sacked the city, lathered old Clem's back well, and
chucked him into a filty prison sell in Saint Angels, to sweat
out his pompous conceit.
"The christian God was with Charles, and he nearly
laughed his ribs out.
"For a long time the old cluttered ditch, the Forum, was
The Awakening 163
a popular rock upon which to hang papal advertising exploita
tions, as well as the family wash.
"I have but one more curiosity to show to you today. We
shall now visit the church of the Friars Minor in Are Coeli.
Here we are.
"One of the greatest attitudes of hypocrisy assumed by
the christian exploitation, is its brazen denial that it practices
idol-worship. If it had not adopted art, and decorated the
walls of St. Peter's, and its cathedrals and churches, with
pictures, which are nothing but idols to fascinate and thrill
the ignorant people, and fill them with awe and hysteria, the
church would have died fifteen centuries ago. If it had not
frightened the superstitious into a blaa-blaa worship of an im
aginary bloody man hanging upon a cross, the fabulous Jesus
Christ would never had been received as other than a fable.
"If the soul-wrecking picture of a suffering 'virgin Mary,'
with a plump babe upon her ample lap, had not been main
tained in the christian idol worship, the gaping, ignorant vic
tims of ecclesiastical duplicity would have been left a recep
tive mind to learn the truth, that Mary is but a figure in
code signifying rebellion, and the people could have under
stood why the doctrine, of which she is a central figure, was
not fully canonized until the middle of the nineteenth cen
tury. It required eighteen hundred years for the church itself
to accept, as authentic, its own fabulous Jesus Christ.
"But, the capsheaf of all idol worship of all ages, the
evidence of catholic duplicity, and papal avarice, is before
you : Behold ! and if you were visible and material, you would
have to drop upon your knees, in an attitude of prayer, or
be rudely invited to get out.
"This wooden urchin, with the piggy, priestly face, is
named 'S. Bambino Di Arocoeli Roma.' It is supposed to rep
resent the infant Jesus.
"See ! It stands upon satin pillows, richly embroidered
with gold ; its body from neck to heels, is swathed in the rarest
of jeweled creations, estimated at a valuation of about one
million dollars. Upon its head rests a crown of rare gems.
164 The Awakening
This crown was placed upon the wooden-head on May 2, 1897
by the vatican chapter. Leo XIII, January 18, 1894, had
blessed this wooden idol, dedicating to it a prayer especially
worded, and constructed, to throw catholic visitors into a spell
of hysteria, causing them to strip the jewels from their own
persons, and hand them to the priest in charge of the idol,
who drapes them upon the dummy figure, as you now see
them. This wooden image
is,
perhaps, the most prolific source
of income to the catholic church to be found in Rome, or
as an individual thing, perhaps in the world.
"The reward for fanatical generosity will make you laugh
—but thank your stars you cannot laugh aloud.
"
'One hundred days indulgence once
a
day applicable
to the souls in purgatory' (Leo XIII, January 18, 1894).
"See that beautiful diamond-encrusted watch, with the
long jeweled chain. Well, this prayer was the spiritual stuff
handed to its donor by that fat-bellied priest.
"More catholics visit this idol in the year than visit St.
Peter's; and each individual must pay the limit of the temper
of old pot-belly in charge.
"Ha, ha
!
I
have an inspiration. Whoever named that
big baby baseball player, in the United States, 'Bambino,'
must have been an idol-worshiping catholic," said Grub.
"That's the exact idea,
a
profitable idol who attracts
the dough," replied Cronus. Your great weakness in the United
States
is
the coining of counterfeit heroes.
"Your athletic 'sports' are but pathetic and childish imita
tions of the heroics of history. They train the physical body
at the expense of the mind, but the secret intrigue back of
it
is
hellish war.
"If there was no other thing in the world to condemn the
church—and there are thousands —this one full-fledged idol
should convict
it
of wilfully obtaining money under false pre
tense. Thousands of men, women and children art rotting
in your prisons, convicted of trivial crimes when compared
with this. The whine that these are free gifts
is
the real
crime. Well do they know that the secret mental coercion,
The Awakening 165
accompanying each gift, is irresistable, and carries greater
pain than the verdict of a savage, soul-hardened judge.
"And now you will have something to think about. I
will bid you good-bye, till we three meet again."
"The Doctor looked sharply at Grub, who seemed to be
much puzzled upon awakening.
"What's teasing you, boy?" asked the Doctor.
"Well, I'm puzzled to know why all of our excursions
seem to develop into raids upon the christian church, and
criticism of the attitude of governments toward the masses
of people, which seems to reflect a favoritism towards the
church," seriously replied Grub.
"Are you skeptical of the truths being revealed?" asked
the Doctor.
"On the contrary. It fully corroborates my own belief
that humanity has long been a victim of premeditated exploita
tion, by invisible powers," replied Grub. "But what part
is Cronus playing, that he makes this his specialty?"
"Without going deeply into the subject now, Grub, I am
convinced that Cronus is but the medium through which na
tural, invisible forces are striving to expose great errors in
human development, with the view of their correction."
"I see," murmured Grub.
CHAPTER XVI
"Well, Grub, you have turned scientific research into a
thrilling sport," laughingly said the Doctor, as they seated
themselves for their morning conference.
"Why the excessive compliment?" asked Grub, pausing
to observe the Doctor's apparent enthusiasm. The Doctor
was carrying under his arm Martin's "Human Body." Con
tinuing, Grub said:
"It must be a gruesome thing that requires you to carry
about with you a 'human body.'
"
So intent was the Doctor on the morning's subject, he
did not immediately grasp the joke, and Grub pointed to the
book. The Doctor laughed heartily and placed the book, with
some papers, upon the table.
"It's about your primary waves, Grub. I am really amazed
to find them a guide which, in due time, will obviate a large
part of the uncertain labor of study and research. I am so
elated I can hardly wait to go into a deeper examination,"
and the Doctor actually rubbed his hands in a sort of ecstacy,
as he plunged directly into his subject.
"In the organic structures, absorption, digestion, assimila
tion and elimination form a consecutive highway from which
branch innumerable paths. Let us adjust this to your waves,"
and he spread upon the table a large sheet of paper, well
diagramed with illustrations.
"First, we will examine the process of nourishing the
body :
Q We place our food in a round orifice, our mouth, located
in the globular head.
><%^^^\^5'
We masticate our food with our teeth.
We swallow our food through the pharynx.
111
■ a The masticated food passes through the oesoph
agus.
166
The Awakening 167
@ And passes into the stomach.
"The process of digesting the food in the stomach is spe
cifically by a spiral motion.
"Now, my boy, how does that impress you? Of course
we have previously gone over this ground, but it is well to
get a permanent picture of this process fixed in our minds, for
it applies alike to the nourishment of all living animals," and
the Doctor leaned back in his chair as though well pleased
with his work.
"That is the first half of the process, eh?" said Grub,
as he carefully examined the diagram.
"Yes, and you will observe this is a physical process,
under mental guidance, wholly within the body, requiring
no active service on the part of the external sense organs
after our food has entered the mouth —a subjective process,"
explained the Doctor.
"Ah! How clearly that distinguishes between the ob
jective and subjective," said Grub.
"Yes, and where do these seemingly independent per-
sonalitiees hold conference? In the brain, the seat of con
sciousness. Hence, thought is the final cyclic fruit. The
first half of the process terminates in the spiral process of
digestion, and the second half terminates in the globular head
or brain. But there is a dual aspect to this process, with di
gestion as a spiral hub. The administration of nourishing
food is mechanical, up to the time of the entrance of the
macerated mass into the stomach ; here the process separates
into the elimination of waste products, and the assimilation
of the living products of digestion, the one physical and the
other psychical ; the one passing back to the earth to be re-
digested and become the energized elements for the earthy
vegetation, and the other to be duly distributed to construct
our living tissues. In this latter process are many intricate,
subconscious operations following the same cyclic laws, be
fore the final fruit of mentation is ripened in the brain—the
power of formative thought, and reflection. This at once
reveals the brain as the moon of this physical system. Where,
168 The Awakening
then, is the sun, which necessarily must precede the moon?
Very emphatically comes the response, the heart !
"Now, my boy, we have clearly defined two seats, or
centres, of mentation, and two seats of thought, the one rep
resenting the objective, and the other the subjective mind.
We may now understand why the subjective mind struggles
and longs for freedom, and is filled with desire, hope and
aspiration.
"The heart is the seat of the subjective mind and thought
—in darkness, ignorance.
"
'For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders,
adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies;
"
'These are the things which defile a man' (Matt. 15 :19,
20).
"The brain is the seat of the objective mind and reason
—light, understanding.
"This distinctly separates man into two individualities —
the physical, or earthy man, with the seat of mentation in
the heart, and the nervous man with the seat of mentation in
the brain.
"Do you now understand why the priesthood is placed
above the common earthy herd?
"The brain is the seat of the God man.
"The heart is the seat of the Christ man.
"The stomach is the seat of the producing man.
"Do you now see why the church is so strongly opposed
to cultivating reason in the masses?
"Do you now understand the significance of this passage
in the Bible ?
"
'And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord
thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble
thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart,
whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no.
"
'And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger'
(Deut. 8:2, 3).
"There is not one visible element in nature to justify the
organization of: mankind into these arbitrary classes. Chris
The Awakening 169
tianity is a clean-cut usurpation of human rights uniformly
belonging to all men alike."
"In this nourishing process I see an excellent lesson in
selectivity," said Grub.
"Yes, selectivity is a most essential element in nourishing
both body and mind. It selects the materials for assimilation
after emulsification in the stomach. This gives to the stomach
a dual function. The spiral motion ceases after emulsification,
and the rejection of the waste becomes an original series of
movements, carrying this eliminant back into the creative cycle.
Hence the excrements become fertilizers for the earthy pro
ducts. This is proven by the waves which execute the act,"
and the Doctor again spread out the diagram and followed
the waves of elimination.
Q Stomach which automatically pushes the emulsified
pabulum into the small intestines
./^^^^^^? from which
the waste portions pass into the colon ^-^^^^sswo and are
pushed into the rectum m « .
"We know the tendency for the solid excreted matter to
coil into a spiral form.
"This has reference to the solid excrement."
"What about the fluid?" asked Grub.
"Why, you must polish up on your physiology," replied
the Doctor. "You know the function of the kidneys is to
eliminate the excess fluids of the body, and there is a way
by which to determine that their structure is for this important
purpose. The malpighian layer of the epidermis is identical
with the malpighian pyramids of the kidneys, and both dis
charge a fluid excrement from the body. They also reveal
your system of waves in their structure.
"The position of these waves indicate enforced elimina
tion, a good demonstration that the external forces are affer
ent, and the inner forces are efferent."
170 The Awakening
"Yes, gee !" exclaimed Grub. "That surely does corrobo
rate our original cyclic wave system. One could locate heaven
by following the lightning, thunder and rain."
"Now add hail, and you have your vibratory, gaseous,
solid and fluid. Also the waves of seeing, hearing, tasting and
smelling, and when the lightning strikes you, you have feeling
and you know you are in heaven," laughingly said the Doctor.
"But there is no reaction in such a process," grumbled
Grub.
"Why, it is a reactive thing in itself," retorted the Doctor.
"Heaven resents the attempt of earthy things trying to make
a ladder of the zig-zag lightning, to break the barrier and
climb into the universal world. You showed me in the ecclesi
astical code that lightning means God's judgments and ven
geance, and thunder expresses God's displeasure, and rain
means doctrines."
"Yes, and we do not have the one without the other,"
said Grub.
"Let us examine this a little farther," said the Doctor.
"The process clearly demonstrates that light is more rapidly
transmitted than sound. Although both are simultaneously
produced, we see the lightning before we hear the thunder."
"I believe this puts one over on the ecclesiasts, for it
puts God's vengeance and punishment before he shows his
displeasure," said Grub.
"We may examine this perhaps with profit," said the
Doctor.
"
'God thunders his power' (Job 25:14).
" 'Thunder is the voice of God' (Job 40:9).
"
'The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire' (Ps.
29:7). (Lightning.)
"
'The secret places of thunder' (Ps. 81 :7).
"Jesus named some of his apostles 'sons of thunder'
(Mark 3:17).
"
'Out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings'
(Rev. 4:5).
"
'The temple of God was opened in heaven and there
The Awakening 171
were lightnings and thunderings, and great hail' (Rev. 11 :19).
"This constant placing of lightning before thunder re
veals that this tommy-rot is all based upon a knowledge of
these elemental things. We may prove, without argument, that
the christian God, in these fanciful things, is a fiction, by
their own code.
"He-aven signifies vacuum, or nothingness.
"Vacuum is an essential factor in the development of the
primary electrons, hence, heaven merely signifies the vacuity
of universal space, in which these electrons reside. It is not
material, therefore, neither a personal God nor his temple
could reside there. Any temple in which God is to be wor
shiped by men, must be a material structure on this earth, and
they themselves confess this. Moreover, they confess that
man is the God on this earth." And the Doctor quoted from
the Bible :
"
'God manifests in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
"Jesus himself said to the Jews:
"
'Is it not written in your law I said ye are Gods?' (Jno.
10:24).
" 'Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the
spirit of God dwelleth in you?' (1 Cor. 3:16).
"Now, do you grasp all this, Grub?"
"Indeed I do," replied Grub. "God is simply embodied
wisdom, for John 4:24 says, 'God is spirit', and this is the
Christ principle within us. Christ is the wisdom of God
(1 Cor. 1:24).
"Does this not intimate the possibility of contact with
the universal mentation as the spirit God?
"Therefore, every man is a god to the extent of his stored
wisdom.
"This is clean-cut gnosticism, Doctor.
"It is more: 'The word was God' (John 1:1). 'Christ
is the wisdom of God' ( 1 Cor. 1
:24) and the 'word of God'
(Rev. 19:13).
"Christ declares:
"
'I am the light of the world' (Jno. 8:12).
172 The Awakening
"Now, we have it right. Light in the code stands for
knowledge, understanding.
"God, then, is potential, unrevealed wisdom. Knowledge
is symbolized by light.
"
'No man hath seen God at any time. God dwelleth
in us' (1 John 4:12).
"Christ is the 'wisdom of God,' revealed by word into
intelligent knowledge and understanding. This makes thought
God, and speech Christ, the spoken word. Hence, no man
hath seen God.
"Man is the living temple, within which God conceals
himself, as intellect.
"Now, Doctor, we have for good and all, identified the
abiding place of God as the primary electron in he-aven, the
universal pabulum. His earthy abiding place is in the brain
of the animal body.
"The Christ character is the human expression of God,
in his image and likeness. He is the spirit within the living
body, and in this embodied state he is the Christ or active
principle.
"It is by this process that the christian scheme personi
fies God in the priesthood. There is not one single justifica
tion for this purely usurpative attitude towards mankind at
large, on the part of a self-constituted priesthood. They openly
confess to having usurped the rights of all governments to
educate and develop their own peoples.
"Jacob was the beginning of the christian church, and
in their own secret code Jacob means usurpation."
"Well ! Well ! Well !" exclaimed the Doctor. "That cer
tainly clarifies the whole christian scheme. The ecclesiasts
deliberately destroyed gnosticism ; appropriated its wisdom ;
usurped the power to teach, and degraded humanity in ignor
ance. By training the ignorant masses as its own militant
body-guard, it seized the temporal power over all the European
rulers, which symbolizes the temporal supremacy over the
darkness of ignorance.
"Europe means darkness. And, it has, subsequently,' pre
The Awakening 173
tended to peddle its stolen wisdom in exchange for 'bread,
mutton and good wine on the lees'—'carnal things.' Better
look carefully into that bargain made with old Jakie (Gen.
28) and try to locate the 'nigger in the woodpile' who is get
ting that rake-off of 'ten percent.'
"Wow ! but that surely is a hot one."
"Wait a minute ; listen to this," said Grub. "Christ's dis
ciples said to him:
"
'Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and
that thou comest forth from God' (Jno. 16:30).
"Gnosis means to know, knowledge.
"
'Christ is the wisdom of God' (1 Cor. 1
:24).
"Now, wisdom must be interpreted before it becomes
understandable knowledge, therefore the teacher, who speaks
the word:
"
'We know that thou art a teacher come from God'
(Jno. 3:2).
"Christ, then, symbolizes the revelation of wisdom, and
wisdom revealed is practical knowledge. We may readily
understand by this, that control of education may dole out to
humanity only that which it is intended it should know. The
loud pretense of education is merely to proclaim the church,
and the priesthood, as the only source from which knowledge
may be obtained. Listen to this :
"'Get wisdom, get understanding' (Prov. 4:5).
"
'Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom ;
and with all thy getting get understanding' (Prov. 4:7).
"
'Buy the truth, and sell it not ; also wisdom, instruction
and understanding' (Prov. 23:23).
"Can you beat it? This is where they put their stuff on
the market," exclaimed the Doctor. "We may readily un
derstand why the catholics are so strong for their own schools,
and why the churches are so determined to control our pub
lic schools; education is their self-protection as well as a
stock in trade."
"One thing is clear to me," said Grub. "Either our gov
ernment is in collusion with this sinister church power, or its
174 The Awakening
executive machinery is too ignorant or indifferent to be worthy
of public confidence, for the church is too conspicuous in
civil affairs. This intrusion should be resented instead of
being coddled."
"We have wandered away from our original theme, Grub,"
said the Doctor. "What I desired to expound was, that the
human being is the embodiment of the whole creative scheme,
revealing by his physical structures, and organic functions,
the final intent and purpose of creative nature. Neverthe
less, it is puny and contemptible to intimate that mankind
is the end and essence of the vast scheme of nature, and he
a mere animal creature upon this earth or planet, which is
but a cell of the greater structure. But he is the highest evo-
luted being upon this planet, and is normally endowed with
extraordinary mental faculties.
"It is a visible and understandable truth, that, nature in
tended to endow all her living creatures with the same op
portunities for self-promotion, consistent with their physical
powers for acquiring knowledge, else it would not have given
to them the same external organs for acquiring such knowl
edge.
"And so evolution, as a living fact, has placed the living
classes in equal environment, and brought the observing in
dividual into contacts and experiences to promote a higher
state of being. It is clear that, deprivation of these natural
opportunities would prevent such promotion, in fact, would
strongly tend toward demotion.
"We have revealed the facts which justify the accusa
tion that an organized human force did conspire to cheat
humanity at large out of its true natural inheritance, a gnostic
enlightenment.
"But, I have confidence in the strange power which is
guiding us to, at least, fully reveal to mankind the raw truth.
It is for the people to consider if they should take action to
correct the horrid evil.
"Humanity was ruthlessly crucified in the name of a
The Awakening 175
fabulous Jesus Christ, in the confiscation of its normal wis
dom, power and authority.
"Now let's rest, Grub."
"Just a moment, Doctor. Your lecture has opened a
place to record a memorandum which I had outlined to ad
just our waves to action and reaction. Here it is:
ChAAT-
Electron Nitrogen
Ice Cold
Potential Vibratory
Impulse
Heaven
Action
Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen
Warm Dry Moist
Gaseous Solid Fluid
Energy Atmosphere Earth Sea
God Christ Man Woman
Reaction
Root
Marrow
Eve
Thought
Church
Trunk
Bone
Adam
Speech
Gospel
Limbs
Muscle
Seth
Word
Christ
Leaves
Flesh
Enos
Action
Fruit
Man
Temptation
Fall
Conversion Redemption
"The sun also is symbolized by the spiral
Q , this being
its original attitude, when first born.
"The moon is symbolized by the circle
^ .
"We may readily recognize the spiritual combination of
the spiral and the circle, in axial and orbital motions of the
earth, and the mechanical nature of our atmosphere.
"This reveals the sun as God, the father; the moon as
the mother church, and the earth as the son—Adam is a fig
ure of Christ.
"If the sun is the father, and the earth is the son, na
176 The Awakening
turally, the ghostly moon is the holy-ghost in the physical,
planetary system.
"This is the visible planetary trinity personified.
"There are no other available elements, with appreciable
contacts, which may assume these christian characters. There
is no possible evasion of the truth; the christian religion, in
its last analysis, is personified planetary worship, and nature-
worship.
"
'For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire' (Deut. 4:24;
Heb. 12:29).
"'For the Lord thy God is a sun' (Ps. 84:11).
"The assumption was, that the first body formed out of
the electric field was the sun, out of which whirling mass was
cast the earth. This would make the emanation from the
first spiral body hot instead of cold, and it is out of the sun
the first god of fire appears, and fire-worship follows sun-
worship.
"Abram, 'the father of all,' comes out of ur, fire, and
he is the first high-priest of sun and fire-worship
"Abraham is heat.
"Ab = father, ra = the sun, ham = hot.
"The high hot father— the sun."
CHAPTER XVII
"Ah ! Doctor. You do not seem so chipper this morn
ing. Why?" gently remarked Grub, as the Doctor slowly
entered the library with bowed head, as though in deep medi
tation. Shaking himself out of his semi-trance the Doctor
replied :
"No, Grub, I am not in a playful mood. I surely have had
a night of
it,
but
I
am amply rewarded.
I
have demonstrated
to my own satisfaction that we truly have revealed
a
new
science, or rather resurrected an old one.
"Gnosticism lives. It
is
the recorded mentation of all
living matter, from the humblest cell to the most exalted
being. It resides in four states: potential or dormant; active
and creative
;
static or contemplative, and cumulative and man
ifested. In this combination, this
is
the thinking, reasoning
spirit of primitive nature embodied in the flesh, with mankind
as the culminating creature."
"Gee
!
but that
is
a
tremendous proposition," exclaimed
Grub.
"Indeed
it
is,
and when fully demonstrated,
it
will leave
enough vacant seats, chairs and thrones of flimsy, self-exalted
great-I-ams, to supply the world with kindling-wood for a long
time. But, now let's get down to business," said the Doctor.
"You may accuse me of repetitions, Grub, but the sub
ject
is
too important to trim to literary practices. Here
is
something to interest you," and the Doctor placed upon the
table some illustrations taken from books on physiology, to
gether with some rough drawings of his own.
"You are right, Grub, one
is
seized with an irresistible
impulse to put on paper
a
record of his thoughts upon this
all-absorbing subject.
"Some place in the Bible, we are told that the early
morning hours are best for thought, and that,
I
find,
is
true.
Although awake and fully conscious, concentrated thought, at
that time, assumes
a
condition of semi-trance. After these
177
178 The Awakening
morning thoughts one feels a strong desire to record them.
"We are now in a strong position to demonstrate that
a clique of self-promoters, calling themselves ecclesiasts, de
liberately confiscated the original gnostic system and, to this
end, destroyed organized gnosticism ; and the meanest part of
this hellish scheme was to submerge humanity at large in ignor
ance and crime. The evidence of this stands boldly out in
authentic history. Moreover, it is corroborated in the Bible.
"
'The scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the
promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that
believe' (Gal. 3:22).
"Thus do they commercialize crime to bribe a church
following.
"Previous to this, back in Rom. 3:19, it is specifically de
clared that all must be made guilty under the law, which is the
school-master, to drive them into the church after which they
are no longer under the law (Gal. 3:25).
"Do you now recognize the significance of the confes
sional ?
"Freedom of speech shall be suppressed by law' (Rom.
3:19).
"This is the most outrageous trickery and dishonesty
ever attempted by men.
"This all-saving 'faith in Jesus Christ,' when carefully
analyzed, simply means faith in the church to accumulate
vast wealth, and power and authority of high office.
"Jesus is Joshua, meaning increased wealth.
"Christ means usurpation of high office.
"But, of all the impudent presumptions to be found in
this fabulous, religio-political scheme, the concealment of the
gnostic wisdom in symbolisms, and personifications, as re
vealed by interpretations by the secret ecclesiastical code, and
the compiling of this into the christian Bible as the basic liter
ature of the christian religion, is the capsheaf of a colossal
conspiracy against humanity at large.
"There is not one visible evidence of justification for
the making of all men imbecils to draw them into this out
The Awakening 179
rageous scheme. There, in my enthusiasm I have deviated
from my main theme. I have reassembled much of our previous
work in this lesson, a sort of review, putting it together in a
most convincing manner.
"These illustrations separate the triune man into his es
sential parts revealing him as the earthy God-man:
THE GNOSTIC STORY OF MAN
The Perfected Man of Flesh
"
'God created man in his own image, male and female
created he them' (Gen. 1:27).
'God manifests in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
180 The Awakening
THE NITROGEN BODY— THE NERVES
"Shem —the man of flesh. (The physical body of the
holy ghost revealed.)
" 'Know ye not that your body is
the temple of the holy ghost which is
in you?' (1 Cor. 6:19).
"If the nervous system could be
wholly dissected out of the tissues and
made stiff enough to stand alone, it
would in a ghost-like manner reveal
the entire contour of the body and
its organs.
"The tree of life manifested in
the flesh.
"Note the conserving nature of
this nervous net-work, so closely in
terwoven that it is impossible to dis
sect it out from the tissues it sur
rounds and penetrates.
"It gives impulse to every thought and act of the human
organism. It does not differentiate between good and evil.
"Shem symbolizes the flesh and skin which cover and
protect the nerves and muscles.
"Noah is the brain.
"No means place ; ah is an abbreviated form of Jah,
Jehovah, God, hence Noah signifies the place of God, which
identifies God as the thinking power of man, located in the
brain.
The Awakening 181
THE OXYGEN BODY— THE MUSCLES
"Japheth —enlarged, persuader. The son (the Christ
body).
SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE BODY
Each is fastened to bones that lie underneath
"Christ manifests in the muscles.
"This muscular man at once reveals expansive powers.
Note the tendency for the ligaments which extend out from
the ends of the muscles to radiate in fan-like forms, reveal
ing the expansive, radiating nature of oxygen. The entire
surface of this man is covered by the network of nerves
which distribute and regulate the expenditure of physical im
pulse and energy. This is the executor of the body.
182 The Awakening
THE CARBON BODY— THE MAN
Ham—black, burned.
" 'Cursed be Canaan (Ham) ; a servant of servants shall
he be unto his brethren' (Gen. 9:25).
"The bones bear all of the burdens of the body, and
are the charred evidences of chemical combustion in the hu
man system.
THE SKELETON
"Man manifests in the bones.
"The muscles govern and dictate to the skeleton its every
action, nevertheless, the skeleton is absolutely essential to
The Awakening 183
carry out the commercial functions between the body and
the external world, hence, Ham becomes Canaan, commerce
and trading, the natural exchanges and compensations of life.
"
'And the body is not one member but many.
"
'But now are they many members yet one body.
" 'And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need
of thee ; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of
you' (1 Cor. 12).
"This is an important truth. The feet alone can give
the body axial motion. They may take us to a thing but
we must grasp it with our hands. The eye can guide us but
it requires physical action to move the body, and muscular
action would be useless without the bony structure.
THE HYDROGEN BODY—THE LYMPHATICS
The Woman, the Mother of All Living
"Organic life is manifested in the waters. All impulse
for physical action must pass through the four creative waves,
terminating in the lymphatics, the hydrogen coil.
LYMPHATICS OF THE HAND
Smaller tubes lie near the surface, larger ones lie deeper
"Woman manifests in the lymph and medullated matter.
Her dual nature in the planetary scheme is in the waters
associated with the land, and the moon as the satellite to the
planet. Eve means life, the waters. Evi means desire, the
attraction between the moon and the earth.
184 The Awakening
"The lymphatics center in the hands because of the ne
cessity for a myriad of discriminations in performing its func
tions.
THE TREE OF GOOD AND EVIL
" 'In the day ye eat of the tree of good and evil ye will
be as Gods.'
"The arterial and venous circulation:
VEINS AND ARTERIES
Black tubes represent veins through which impure blood goes to
the right side of the heart from all parts of the body; light,
colored tubes represent arteries through which pure blood from
the left side of the heart goes to all parts of the body. Notice
that the large tubes of each kind lie near one another.
"This proves that good and evil are inseparable.
"Now we are at the real facts regarding man. He has
a spirit which dictates to the physical body, which expresses
the will of the composite being.
"The seat of the spirit is in the brain and the seat of
manifestation is in the members of the body.
The Awakening 185
"
'God is the head of Christ ; Christ is the head of man,
and man is the head of woman' (1 Cor. 11 :3). Flesh, muscle,
bone and marrow.
"Woman, we have seen, represents the hydrogen coil,
hence the lymphatics also represent the woman or female
principle, and give expression to the mental impulses of the
organic being.
"This is the great mystery, Grub.
"When Jesus was asked to explain why he did not reveal
the truth to the multitudes, he said to his disciples:
"
'Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries
of the kingdom of heaven but to them it is not given.
"
'Because they seeing see not ; and hearing they hear
not, neither do they understand' (Matt. 13:11, 13).
"This is no explanation, but is merely a sop tossed to his
followers. But, in Luke 8:10, 11, it is specifically stated that
these so-called mysteries are withheld from the masses that
they might not become wise and be saved.
"Now the kingdom of heaven is the ecclesiastical govern
ment. It was not intended that the ignorant masses should
know the truth which would cause them to rise en masse
against the church pretensions.
"This alleged mystery is carried so far that even the ser
mon of the priest is delivered in Latin, to prevent the con
gregation from understanding. And still the fool people are
not insulted, because the ignorant ones do not even under
stand what it is all about —their religion is but awe and super
stition.
"
'For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue, speaketh
not unto men, but unto God ; for no man understandeth him ;
howbeit in the spirit he speaketh mystery' (1 Cor. 14:2).
"What is this great mystery?
"It is man !
"The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man' (Ps. 94:11).
"T know their thoughts' (Isa. 66:18).
"Adam was cast out of the Garden of Eden because he
186 The Awakening
partook of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and
to prevent his partaking of the tree of life.
"Do you not grasp the truth, Grub
"It was the gnostic belief that man would develop a uni
versal thought, and would form a conscious contact with the
universal mind. This is what the ecclesiasts feared most. It
was through cultivated thought such a development could
arise. A garden is a place of cultivation.
"From Adam descended the posterity which first devel
oped into the chosen people of God, beginning with Abraham,
the 'father of us all' (Rom. 4:16).
"Ab = father—high-priest.
"Ra = the sun.
"Ham = hot—the heat of fire, zeal.
"Ab-ra-ham = the priest of the hot sun and fire. Hence
Abraham came out of ur—fire.
"Let us see how they apply this to the human body.
"Abraham is the head, the chief-priest of the multitudes
"Isaac means joy, prosperity, laughter, the face. The
mouth and throat are Jacob, meaning the supplanter, the usurp
er, and by the mouth he usurps the possessions of Esau, the
external man, the producer. We see him confiscate with his
hands the food to which Esau leads us by his exercises, and
transfer them to the mouth. All the external sense organs
lend themselves to his purpose, and these are Israel, the
church.
"To the thoracic part of the body are attached the usurpa-
tive hands of Jacob. Benjamin, Jacob's youngest son, means
the right-hand-protection and go-getter of the spoils.
"To the lower portion of the body are attached the legs
and feet, attaching Esau to the earth.
"Esau means earthy, producing mankind.
"The legs and feet lead to the prey, and the arms and
hands seize it.
"Esau, the elder twin, is entitled to first position, but
God enters into a conspiracy with Jacob to defraud Esau,
the earthy man, out of his birth-right. This was a clean cut
The Awakening 187
fraud, in which Jacob takes mean advantage of the blind
father, and deliberately lies to him.
"
'Art thou my very son Esau, and Jacob said, I am'
(Gen. 27:24).
"In the very next chapter God makes a bargain with
Jacob.
"
'And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, if God will be with
me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give
me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, then shall the Lord
be my God, and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely
give the tenth unto thee' (Gen. 28).
"Jacob names the place where this bargain was made,
Bethel, meaning the house of God, signifying the human body
as distinguished from Israel, the head and face.
"God named Jacob Israel, meaning the church of Christ,
and signifying having obtained a princely power from God.
"By this we may identify the christian God as the sun,
by its revealed offspring—light—as symbolizing intelligence.
"Is = the light of ra = the sun, is el = the first cause.
"The light of the sun is the first cause.
"Christ declares:
"
T am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
"
'For the Lord God is a sun' (Ps. 84:11).
"Now watch what follows:
"Jacob, usurpation, is the high-priest of Israel.
"Israel is the church of Christ.
"The 'twelve sons of Israel' is the church organization,
as the twelve apostles of Christ represent the christian dis
pensation.
"See how clever:
"Reuben —vision, seeing light—the eye.
"Simeon —hearing, obedience, sound —the ear.
"Levi —restraint, smell —the nose.
"Judah—tasting, approval, praise— mouth.
"Issachar —compensation, respiration— the breath.
"Zebulun —dwelling, thorax —breasts.
"Dan —judgment, discretion —tongue.
188 The Awakening
"Joseph —increase- —organ.
"Naphtali—endeavor, struggle —fingers.
"Gad —armed and prepared troops—the teeth.
"Benjamin —protection, spoils —right hand.
"Asher—satisfaction, support—legs and feet.
"These are the church forces, or organization, upon which
it depends for support, promotion, extension, and protection.
"Do you fully grasp
it,
Grub?
"It
is
the external, physical man, as distinguished from
the internal, mental or spiritual man.
" 'Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that
the spirit of God dwelleth in you?'
(1
Cor. 3:16).
"This church of Christ feeds, protects and promotes the
secret inner ecclesia, proving, beyond all doubt, that were
the priesthood not kept supplied with 'bread, mutton and good
wine on the lees,' there would be no church, which makes
it
plain that the church
is
merely
a
shield and refuge of men
posing as special dispensations on earth.
"There are twelve external openings in the human body,
both in the male and the female, each having its symbolic
significance."
Grub sat in silence for
a
few moments, then said: "Doc
tor,
I
am so shocked to know that this strutting christian
thing
is
such an apparent false-pretense,
I
must have time
to think about it.
I
want to ask you to again take up the
subject of the 'father, the son, and the holy ghost'."
"Well, that also
is
a
physical proposition," said the Doctor.
"A reactive manifestation.
"The father
is
the man of bone
;
the son
is
the man of
muscle, and the holy ghost
is
the nervous system. The aston
ishing thing
is,
each of these
is
a
system in itself, with special
functions.
"The skeleton:
Q The skull.
-^^^^^\^> The spinal column.
^g^^^y The ribs.
The Awakening 189
> The long bones of arms and legs.
The fingers and toes.
"This is the earthy man, Adam. Upon this earthy man
is crucified the muscular man, the Christ.
"With the body standing erect, with the arms extended,
a perfect cross is exhibited. This is the tree on which Christ
was hanged.
"Christ was hanged at Calvary. This is the Latin for
the Greek kranion, which signifies the skull. The Hebrew
names it golgotha, meaning the skull.
"From the base of the skull the whole muscular system
hangs upon the skeleton, the living cross.
"This is the figurative crucifixion of Christ.
"The mental lesion, following enforced ignorance, occurs
at the base of the brain in the skull.
"The true or literal crucifixion, is the debasement of the
greater humanity in ignorance, legislative crime, and culti
vated poverty, to promote the mental supremacy of the few
over the whole.
"Now, observe the manner by which the 'father,' the 'son'
and the 'holy ghost' blend together.
"The skeleton is clothed and burdened by the muscular
system.
"The muscular system is covered by a fine network of
nerves. If these nerves could be dissected out of the body
in a manner to permit it to stand alone it would appear as a
ghostly tree. All of these merge into the God-man of flesh,
especially the fat-bellied priest.
"
'God created man in his own image, male and female
created he them' (Gen. 1:27).
"'God was manifested in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
"
'No man hath seen God at any time' (Jno. 1 :18).
"This assembled body is the temple of the abstract, in
visible God (1 Cor. 3:16).
"This intimates the flesh signifies the invisible medullary
matter of the cerebro-spinal nerves.
190 The Awakening
"'God dwelleth in us' (1 John 4:12).
"
'God is a spirit, and they who worship him must wor
ship him in the spirit' (Jno. 4:24).
" 'He is not the God of the dead but of the living'
(Mark 12:27).
"Do you grasp all this, Grub?"
"It is truly a revelation, and very plain," said Grub. "I
would say the living process of the body is the godly spirit,
but there must be some spiritual centre in the body as the
seat of this God, even though God permeates all."
"Right you are," replied the Doctor.
"'The life of the flesh is the blood thereof (Gen. 9:4).
"It is the blood which distributes the living elements
throughout the tissues of the body, and right along with the
blood we find the holy-ghost, the nerves. Hence Christ says :
"
'I and my father are one,' meaning one dual system.
"The seat of the God principle is in the brain.
"The seat of the Christ principle is in the heart.
"Christ is always pictured as a bloody character.
"
'He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood' (Rev.
19:13).
"God forbids eating raw flesh with the blood therein,
because the blood is the life thereof.
"Gee !" exclaimed Grub. "Why, the eucharist teaches
cannibalism by declaring it is the real blood and flesh of
Christ's body."
"Right you are again, my boy," said the Doctor. "That
is exactly the purpose of the eucharist, to bring a remnant
of the cannibal religion into the universal church, which em
braces all religions."
"I seem to see even a more urgent and vital angle to this
theory. All red-blooded animals are Godlike creations," re
marked Grub.
"Yes, quite right," said the Doctor. "All intelligent
animals, with systems and organs practically like human be
ings, are in different stages of evolution toward the perfected
animal-man. It is extremely ridiculous to say that eyes, ears,
The Awakening 191
nostrils and mouths were not given to the animals for the
same identical reason they were given to men."
"Ha! ha! Caught red-handed," laughed Grub. "This
accounts for the christian antagonism towards evolution. Well !
Would you sit down and ponder that?"
"Why of course that is all horse-play," said the Doctor.
"They confess a knowledge of animal evolution more often
than they dispute it.
-
"
'For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth
beasts; as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have
all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above
a beast.
"
'All go unto one place; all are of the dust and all turn
to dust again.
"
'Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward,
and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?"
(Ecc. 3:19, 20, 21).
"Do you not see that, to acknowledge man as but a higher
evoluted, red-blooded animal, would be a confession of wilful
murder, on the part of the christians, by their having justi
fied the use of animal flesh for food?
"The original scheme of nature was, that the red-blooded
animals should live off vegetation. Genesis agrees with this
view (Gen. 1:29). But, there is a better evidence; the red-
blooded animals have no exchange of excrements as found
between the respiratory animals and the vegetation, both in
material excrements and the breath.
"It was necessity which caused animals to kill and devour
each other, and this includes man. Cannibalism made this
necessity a religious rite.
"Jesus Christ, crucified, is but a symbol of cannibalistic
sacrifice, otherwise there would be no sense in eating his
flesh and drinking his blood," and the Doctor rested to see
what impression he had made.
"Doctor, I am now fully convinced that our work is
inspired by some unusual mental contact which desires to
make some great revelation. In this brief conversation we
192 The Awakening
have solved a problem which has puzzled every would-be
christian. Not a living soul has ever explained the purpose of
the wilful sacrifice of the fabulous Christ character—a mere
man as a symbol of a false principle. No one has attempted
to explain what the great calamity was, from which he was
to save humanity and to this day, not one person, allied with
the church, can explain why he is thus enthralled.
"It seems plain, here, that it was to save men from being
slaughtered, and devoured for food, like other animals.
"The word sacrifice is applied to the killing and eating
of all animals in the Bible, the altar being the cooking oven.
'The Lord smelled a sweet savour of cooking flesh' (Gen.
8:21).
"
'Do ye not know that they which minister about holy
things live of the things of the temple? and they which wait
at the altar are partakers with the altar?' Originally the
priests cooked the food for the people on the altar, retaining
the choice parts for themselves.
"
'Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach
the gospel should live of the gospel' (1 Cor. 9:13, 14).
"This clearly differentiates between a material service and
a spiritual service, hence the plea :
"
'If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great
thing if we shall reap your carnal things?' (1 Cor. 9:11).
"That is very well put, Grub," said the Doctor, "and it
suggests another step in the play. Originally the eucharist
was only celebrated by eating fish. The earliest emblem of
Jesus was a fish. He chose fishermen as his disciples. More
over, Jesus is but the Greek form of Joshua, who was the son
of Nun meaning a fish. This is growing interesting as it
unfolds these secrets," and the Doctor exhibited his elation
by rubbing his hands together.
"I find that the eating of animal flesh for food is espe
cially referred to, following the flood, and it makes no dis
tinction between man and beast.
"
'Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you ;
even as the green herb' (Gen. 9:3).
The Awakening 193
"Doctor, this corroborates your theory that necessity
caused mankind to take to flesh as food. We have here posi
tive evidence. There could not have been vegetation upon the
earth when Noah and his crowd left the ark. They evidently
had no vegetable food while in the ark, and had taken to eat
ing the flesh of the animals while yet in the ark. Here is
evidence, too, that God is a man, and it was the conscience
of man which approved of flesh as food.
"
'And the Lord smelled a sweet savour of cooking flesh'
(Gen. 8:21).
"Surely a God with this priestly nose must be an ordinary
man," and Grub laughed softly.
"Maybe it would be well for us to scrutinize Noah and
his sons. Who are they to be so honored by God, in his mur
derous slaughter of all other living things on earth?" said the
Doctor.
"That isn't a bad idea," said Grub, "for the whole present
human race is descended from them. Maybe we can determine
whether our ancestors were men or monkeys. Great Caesar !
We have solved another hot one. Do you know why the fabu
lous flood was brought upon the world? Why, to break the
line of evoluted animals back of the present generations, and
demonstrate that man, originally, was a special dispensation.
"Why, of course we did not evolute out of monkeys, when
we can so clearly trace man back to Noah, a man who walked
with God. I'm going to prove, right here, that the story of
Noah and his sons is a myth," and Grub placed his diagrams
in order.
"Now follow our waves, Doctor:
Q Noah, the brain.
s^jyjXsO Shem, the flesh.
^s^^^jb^o Japheth, the muscles.
" 'And I behold, I establish my covenant with you, and
with your seed after you' (Gen. 9:9).
194 The Awakening
"Without difficulty we may identify these characters.
"Noah said, upon awakening from a drunken stupor:
"
'Cursed be Canaan'—Ham stands for Canaan.
"
'God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the
tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant' (Gen. 9:27).
"The tent of Shem is the human skin, covering the flesh.
"Japheth is the muscular man beneath the flesh and skin.
"Canaan is the offspring of Ham.
"The skeleton bears all the burdens of the body. Our old
ham -bone is no joke.
"Canaan means merchandising and trading, and in a
broad sense is the servant of the flesh. There is an ulterior
significance, having reference to the commerce between the
vgetation and the respiratory animals, due to respiration."
"Great guns! Grub. There is no end to these revela
tions," exclaimed the Doctor. "You have actually uncovered
the origin of the cadeuceus.
"The skeleton is the staff of Mercury, the god of com
merce and trading. The flesh and muscles represent the
nitrogen and oxygen serpents coiled about it and in common
accord. This thing is getting spooky in its revelation of
secrets."
"I think we are overlooking something," said Grub. "If
this Noah story is all a fable, what about the flood? It must
have been of first importance, for more fools have been de
veloped in the christian attempt to vindicate the story of the
flood than in trying to prove that an actual Jesus Christ was
actually crucified."
"I'll answer that to your satisfaction," replied the Doctor.
"To begin with, the capacity of the ark figures out about one-
millionth of the space which would properly hold the hosts
of respiratory creatures allegedly placed in
it,
therefore the
excrements, in
a
single day, would have buried the whole out
fit in
a
mountain of dung. There was but
a
single window
in the ark, therefore, all would have died in a few minutes
for want of air to breathe.
The Awakening 195
"Now the ark was supposed to have landed upon Mount
Arrarat (Gen. 8:4).
"Grub, it seems a pity that humanity refuses to see the
truth even when it slaps it in the face. Mt. Arrarat is 17,000
feet high. Listen to this:
"
'Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail and the
mountains were covered' (Gen. 7:20).
"Do you get that ? About thirty-five feet of water landed
the ark on the top of a mountain 17,000 feet high. Can you
beat it?
"Yet, when you show this to the average church fanatic,
he will insult you, declaring you are reflecting upon the in
tegrity of the holy church, and perhaps curse you because you
are not as big a fool as himself. I, myself, heard William
Jennings Bryan declare:
"
'I believe every word in the Bible is true.'
"And in nineteen hundred, six millions of persons voted
for him for president, and in nineteen eight, the same persons,
almost to a man, voted for him again, proving conclusively it
was a church following doing the voting."
"Haven't you overlooked something, Doctor?" asked Grub.
"What is it ?" asked the Doctor.
"Why, the waters rose fifteen cubits. The ark itself
was three hundred cubits long, fifty cubits wide and thirty
cubits high. Wouldn't you like to see the manipulation of this
box, containing specimens in duplicate, or in series, of all the
animals of the earth, in thirty-five feet of water?"
"I get you," replied the Doctor, "but let's rest."
"Just a moment, Doctor, while this is fresh in our minds,"
said Grub. "I want to prove that the gnostic wisdom was
well known to the devils who conceived and exploited the
fabulous christian scheme.
"Shem means name, fame, renown.
"His first offspring was named Elam. Elam means a
young Levitical priest, a virgin, a secret, and an epoch.
"Thus, about the first step following the fabulous flood
which allegedly destroyed all the balance of mankind, was the
196 The Awakening
cunning suggestion of that brazen, vulgar doctrine of the
'immaculate conception' of Jesus.
"This truly originated in the zealous minds of fanatics.
"Ham means zeal, enthusiasm.
"Japheth means enlarged, extended."
"I will add a bit to that, Grub, to prove that your theory
of concealment of the doctrine of the 'immaculate conception'
was long a church secret," and the Doctor stepped to his case
and brought therefrom a book.
"Here is my dear old friend Waite, a most courageous
writer on the fakes of Christianity. He will tell us the truth.
"Here is what he has to say about the early 'church
lathers' :
"Eusebius —noted for his falsehoods, pious frauds, pious
lies. Yet, were he removed as a church father, from church
authorities, the church would fall to pieces. It is worth while
to read his falsehoods and forgeries on Josephus, Phlegon,
Thallus, Poryphyry, and many others.
"Ignatius is given credit for the first direct intimation
of the 'immaculate conception' as a church doctrine :
"
'There was concealed from the rulers of this world,
the virginity of Mary, and the birth of our Lord.'
"This sly announcement was made more than a thousand
years after the alleged birth of Jesus.
"During the most critical age in the destruction of gnosti
cism by the ecclesiasts, many leading gnostics were bribed
or deceived into joining the ranks of the ecclesiasts.
"Eusebius was a gnostic.
"Ignatius was a gnostic.
"Basilides was a gnostic.
"Epiphanius was a gnostic.
"Clement of Rome was a gnostic.
"Meander was a gnostic.
"Saturninus was a gnostic.
"Aristides was a gnostic.
"Quadratus was a gnostic.
The Awakening 197
"The latter two delivered to Hadrian apologies for the
promotion of the christian religion.
"This is positive evidence that the founding of the chris
tian religion was based upon gnosticism at first hand, and it
explains why the secret code reveals the gnostic philosophy.
"This was the only way by which the original gnostic
organization could be suppressed, by absorbing its leaders into
the new ecclesia by promises of greater exploitation of wisdom.
"This surely has been a lesson; now let us rest," and
the Doctor and Grub gathered up their materials.
"Don't forget, Doctor, I told you I have taken to pic
tures, but you beat me to it," laughingly said Grub.
CHAPTER XVIII
"Grub, I have been examining the subject of the blood,
lymph and chyle, to learn why they are not more conspicuous
in the Bible," said the Doctor, as he placed some books upon
the table.
"Why, there are more than three hundred references to
the blood in the Bible, Doctor," exclaimed Grub.
"Yes, that is true, but they give no clue as to what the
blood really
is,
merely referring to
it
as the 'vital fluid,' the
'life of the flesh.' The same may be said of the lymph or
chyle.
"The Bible eternally howls about the shedding of the
blood as
a
vital thing.
"Let us examine this briefly," and the Doctor began
to open his books.
"We have previously traced the food materials into the
stomach through
a
positive set of waves. Digestion sets up
a spiral process which emulsifies and pushes out the ma
terials for assimilation or excretion.
"The blood receives its nourishing elements from the
lymphatic system, which receives them from the intestines
during digestion. The newly formed leucocytes become the
living corpuscles of the blood.
"That this
is
a
regulated exchange between digestion
and assimilation,
is
proven by the simple fact, that, during
periods of fasting, no digestive process
is
going on, and the
lymph, instead of being
a
rich, milky fluid, due to the products
of digestion,
is
a
clear colorless fluid—when white and milky,
the lymph
is
called chyle.
"The lymphatic system
is
quite as elaborate as the blood
circulation.
"We here have the evidence that living matter
is
born
out of the waters. We may readily recognize this first con
structive step as coming out of the digestive spiral.
"Lymph means clear water.
198
The Awakening 199
"Now listen to this:
"
'Jesus said : I say unto thee, except a man be born of
water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of
God' (John 3:5).
"Here is a subtile lesson, Grub:
"A kingdom is an executive thing, therefore, this has
reference to the absorption of the constructive elements into
the physical structures.
"The kingdom of God is also heaven. Heaven means the
ecclesiastical government. He is masculine, aven means noth
ingness, hence a free state, not under the law.
"The spiral, we know, is feminine and symbolizes water,
as opposed to the globular. God is masculine.
"The living substance pouring into the blood is from the
lymph, water, a chemically spiritualized product, in that it is
endowed with individual, unit life. In the blood it receives
the holy-ghost, it is oxygenized, and distributed to the tissues
to form the fleshy body, and come in contact with nervous
influences, revealing that the nervous system is the heaven.
"
'God is manifested in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
" 'The word was made flesh and dwelt among us' (John
1:14).
"
'The word is God' (John 1 :1).
"This emphatically proves that the so-called christian God
is the life and spirit of living matter, and this spirit is in
every living cell striving to find a place in the greater, com
posite structure, seeking to reveal and manifest its purpose
in nature.
"Now I will surely knock the props from under you, Grub.
Hold tight:
"Jesus preached:
"
'He that believeth on me as the scripture hath said, out
of his belly shall flow rivers of living waters.
"
'But this spake he of the spirit, which they that believed
on him should receive ; for the holy ghost was not yet given
because that Jesus was not yet glorified' (John 7:38, 39).
"The abdomen is called the belly. These rivers of waters
200 The Awakening
signify the lymphatic streams, laiden with the living germs,
which will become the body of Christ, the muscular system,
glorified by being hanged upon the skeleton.
"Naturally these newly created cells are not endowed
with nervous filaments, or fibers, therefore they possess no
christly powers, as representing a body endowed with con
scious mentation, and voluntary action. The Christ principle
cannot guide or advise the leucocytes or corpuscles, until they
are passed into the circulating blood where they partake of
the holy-ghost—the products of respiration. Holy-ghost means
the breath. They still are not glorified, not yet having direct
nervous contact. They have been baptized in water, they must
now pass through the baptism of fire, which proves the process
is now under the influence of the oxygen wave.
"Upon becoming oxygenized, the corpuscles are carried
to the bones, then are returned to the blood in a regenerated
state.
"We are now amazed to see that these perfected cor
puscles re-enter the blood vessels, *-*sbs^^b>*o endowed with
the spirit ^^^^^^^ , and assume a circular form, Q
indicating the completion of a cyclic process. This blood
plaque is the Christ risen from the grave —the bones. By
this process he becomes the son of the carbon man —the bones.
"This is the first resurrection or regeneration.
"
'This is the change and renovation of the soul, by the
spirit and grace of God.'
"
'Jesus said : Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a
man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into
the kingdom of God.
"
'That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which
is born of the spirit is spirit.
"
'Marvel not that I said unto thee, you must be born
again' (John 3:5, 6, 7).
"This is called the new birth, which infuses spiritual life
into the soul (John 5:25).
"It is also admitted this gives authority and power to
The Awakening 201
execute judgments 'because he is now the son of man' (John
5:27)."
"I see, I see," said Grub.
"The lymphatic system is the mother; the circulating
blood is the son; the nervous system is God, and the whole
body is man."
"Yes," replied the Doctor, "your waves have actually
guided us to the seat of the so-called Christ principle in our
organic body —the heart.
"Look at these illustrations, and realize the significance
of this. These systems permeate the whole body.
"I call your attention to something of tremendous im
portance. We have probably revealed the secret goal of this
ecclesiastic system.
"
T have found a ransom' ;
"
'His flesh shall be fresher than a child's ; he shall re
turn to the days of his youth' (Job. 33:25)."
"Gee ! Doctor, where is this leading us ?" exclaimed Grub.
"They promise everlasting life in the flesh, a physical state."
"Your waves are doing
it,
Grub," said the Doctor. "You
have said you believe your primary waves are actual living
larvae, and you are right; they are.
" 'Man
is
a
worm, and the son of man
is
a
worm' (Job
25 :6).
"
'By his hand God hath garnished the heavens
;
his hand
hath formed
a
crooked serpent' (Job 26 :13). That great worm.
"This has reference to the gnostic serpent, the only
living creature which can reveal to all mankind the secrets
of nature. Through selfish motives, and inborn ignorance,
the damned ecclesiasts ruthlessly violated the most sacred
trust that was ever placed in the conscience of men. They
broke the contacts which were leading mankind toward
a
state of creative perfection. That this was
a
premeditated
thing
is
betrayed by the fake flood to wipe out all the old
worldly stumbling blocks.
"The name Noah means rest, comfort, consolation.
"The nearest approach to this state they have ever at
202 The Awakening
tained is their walled, secret dens called monasteries and
nunneries—vile beyond conception."
"You mean too vile for 'immaculate conception'," sug
gested Grub. "You know Mary, the 'mother of God,' was
a nun."
"Yes, one is amazed to what length the ecclesiasts went
to test the credulity of the ignorant, superstitious people,"
said the Doctor, reaching for the "History of Christian Re
ligion," by Waite.
"Grub, you may not be familiar with Biblical fables, or
you would know that much of the stuff is purposely made
fabulous to conceal gruesome facts. It required many cen
turies to nail down the vulgar doctrine of the 'immaculate
conception.' Not until the middle of the nineteenth century
was it finally canonized as a permanent church doctrine. There
was an extraordinary reason for not making this flimsy, un
natural thing conspicuous in controversy. Early errors had
to be covered up and kept concealed.
"Some time you must read the apocryphal gospels, Grub.
Apocrypha means concealed, hidden, secret —in simple, sup
pressed, although as fully canonized, and official, as the bal
ance of the Bible."
"Pardon me for interrupting, Doctor, but I don't want
this to escape, and here is an appropriate place to mention
it," said Grub. "Back there, in your lecture, you mentioned
Jesus having referred to the 'scripture.' Isn't it well es
tablished that the scripture of the new testament did not ap
pear until about three hundred years after the alleged time
of Christ?"
"Certainly," replied the Doctor, "and raw changes, inter
polations, and 'pious frauds' have been inserted since its in
troduction. Why, the book of 'Revelation' in the new testa
ment was not inserted in the Bible until the year 1672.
"As late as the seventeenth century men were burned
at the stake for daring to criticize the absurd doctrine of the
'immaculate conception,' long before it had been accepted and
legalized by the church.
The Awakening 203
"The false-pretense was a raw thing, and carried a hard
kick-back. The world did not readily accept the fake, and
to save the face of the priesthood, Mary was put onto old
Joseph, and he had to swallow his dose. Finally the whole
thing hinged upon a dream (Matt. 1:20)."
"Say! I see some more funny angles in this, Doctor,"
said Grub.
"Abraham is named as the father of Jesus Christ.
"In Matt. 1 :1, David is named the father of Jesus Christ.
"In Matt. 1 :20, Joseph is called the son of David.
"This makes Jesus the son of his own brother. But,
an interpretation by the code reveals a vulgar suggestion:
"David means carnal love.
"Joseph means increase.
"Jesus means an immaculate priesthood.
"Mary means rebellion.
"Now, what conclusion may be drawn from this?
"It was rebellion against civil restraints which carried
the priesthood behind monastic walls.
"Priests are forbidden to marry. What decent excuse
can be made for also carrying women into this so-called mon
astic life? But one—to raise up an 'immaculate' tribe.
"England and France had sufficient regard for national
decency to break up these dens of iniquity, expel their in
mates, and confiscate their property.
"You can conclude, from this, that the original ecclesia
believed in the gnostic theory, that nature intended that per
fected humanity should rise superior to the necessity of or
ganized community life, and governmental restraints, as a
normal goal of mental evolution. Ecclesiasticism conceived
the idea of hastening the process, but finding civil govern
ments strongly established, they skulk behind their protecting,
monastic walls, awaiting the day when revolutions will weaken
the theory of organized government. Hence they carry out
their idea in seclusion and secrecy. They could not mingle
their sacred blood with that of the common herd, nor be
come obedient to the normal laws of men.
204 The Awakening
"
'Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us
unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
"
'But after that faith is come, we are no longer under
the law.
"
'For ye are the children of God by faith in Jesus Christ.
"
'And if ye be Christs' then are ye Abraham's seed'
(Gal. 3).
"
'Christ is the end of the law to every one that be-
lieveth' (Rom. 10:4).
"Has the church ever attempted to put this into prac
tice? Well, read the history of the law of England, called
the 'Benefit of Clergy' with its senseless 'neck-verse,' the first
verse of the fifty-first Psalm. When a follower of the church
desired to commit a crime, even up to murder, he committed
to memory this 'neck-verse.' If apprehended and arraigned,
he was represented in the court by a priest. Upon repeating
the 'neck-verse' he was released to the church which branded
him in the hand as belonging to it."
"Yes, that is but one of many such attempts to override
civil governments. The people of the United States should
take cognizance of the many brazen utterances of defiance
by the churches, in recent years.
"Things which would be treasonable in private citizens
are ignored when uttered by the church. The indifference
on the part of government offiicials begins to smack of con
nivance," said the Doctor.
"The fact that our conversations tend to lead us into a
discussion of the Bible, convinces me that some ulterior mental
guide is proving to us that it is a synopsis of the gnostic wis
dom, concealed in fable, symbolisms, and personifications in
code," declared Grub.
"I, too, am so convinced," replied the Doctor; "but I
think we have enough to inspire some original thought for
this sitting." And the Doctor arose, took his books, and placed
them upon their shelves.
"My cue seems to be that, the ecclesiasts have learned
most of their astronomy from a study of the gnostic philosophy,
The Awakening 205
especially physiology, and they have attempted to personify
elements and principles," said Grub.
"Let us then think along that line," replied the Doctor.
CHAPTER XIX
"Doctor, I had thought of suggesting a trip to Egypt,
but I have altogether changed my mind," said Grub.
"Well, I have lost interest in the travel stuff, myself,"
responded the Doctor.
"You probably hold the same feeling that I do, since
we know that the thrill of actual travel is but a physical
irritation, as compared with our exercises of mind," said Grub.
"I believe I understand what you mean, but if you have
any demonstrations I will gladly be the audience this morn
ing," replied the Doctor.
"Well, I have fully concluded that, while in a trance
state, the nervous impulse is withdrawn or, at least, is sus
pended, with regard to waking, physical sensation," said Grub.
"Why, we long ago agreed upon that, knowing that no
physical pain is experienced during an operation under the
influence of magnetism," said the Doctor. "There is no par
ticular merit in our pretending to take these mental journeys
when we know all that we vision comes to us directly from
the universal medium.
"Father time, or Cronus, merely awakens the universal
memory at the expression or suggestion of our desire.
"You have it right ; but I can go you one better," said
Grub, with his usual good-natured grin.
"It was in my mind to take a trance journey to Egypt,
and the countries most conspicuously mentioned in the Bible,
to find to what extent the monks had drawn upon fable for
the foundation of the jumbled story of the old testament.
"It is not essential for us to assume a trance state to
examine this, for I find the secret code fully explains it.
There is ample evidence that this alleged Hebrew history was
all coined out of the imaginative minds of monks —even much
of the history we have long taught in our schools.
"It would be tedious to repeat this fabulous history, in
termingled with, confusing facts, therefore I have merely
206
The Awakening 207
made a list of countries, places, names and numerous things,
and interpreted these, in their significance, by the use of
the secret code," and Grub spread some written pages upon
the table.
"First, I want to impress the fact that ecclesiasticism
bumped into an unexpected obstacle in its fiendish purpose
to suppress gnosticism and confiscate its wisdom. These devil
ish monks were an organized militant body. The outcome
was they had to be absorbed into the Christian scheme, and it
was they who worked out the secret ecclesiastical code to
conceal gnosticism.
"The principal story begins with the so-called middle
monarchy of Egypt, with the invasion and conquest of Egypt
by the Hyksos or shepherd-kings, sun-worshipers of Syria.
"Now, Doctor, here is a beautiful fake. They were al
leged to be the foes of civilization, and were accused of de
stroying all the monuments they found. This is wholly in
tended to account for the disappearance of many monuments
named in the Biblical fable, to give semblance of truth to
fake history, and age to the christian scheme.
"The alleged Hyksos period began about sixteen hundred
years before the christian scheme was introduced.
"
'King Aahmes knew not Joseph,' and, as a curious fact
the name of this king does not respond to the code.
"I give these names in consecutive order, as they appear
in the written history of that alleged historical period.
"The very fact that these names respond to the conceal
ing code, in this consecutive manner, is all the evidence neces
sary to prove a sinister purpose.
"Egypt = oppression, misery, tribulations.
"Syria = the Hebrew Aram, an ancestor of Christ =
exaltation.
"Ammon = the people, inquisitional torture by David
(2 Sam. 12:31).
"Am-mon also means Am—a female deity, and mon —
man.
208 The Awakening
"Thebes — classical name of No-Amon, meaning true,
faithful, artificer, protector.
"No = stirring up, forbidding place.
"Hatasu = smiting, conquering.
"Meggido = overcrowded.
"Philistia = villagers, colonization.
"Gaza = strong, wickedness, goat == prolific breeding.
"Euphrates = fructifying, fruitful, profitable.
"Hittites = superstitious fear, fearful.
"Carchemish = the subduer, national god of the people,
civil ruler.
"Assyria = consolation. Assir = prison, fetters.
"Rameses = thunder, that destroys evil.
"Pharaoh = that discovers and disperses, the revenger.
"Exodus = going out, separation, ruled by law, legislation.
"Moses = Mo = water = a multitude of laws; ses =
drawn out.
"Israel = Church of Christ, the light of the sun. Is =
the light of ra = the sun, el = the first cause.
"Succoth — a tabernacle, a church structure. The chris
tians were not permitted to erect churches until the decree
of Constantine, A. D. 321. This decree also permitted the
giving of gifts to the church.
"Etham = their strength or sign. Eth = favor, am =
female deity. Mary means the church. Mary is called the
'mother of God.'
"Pihahiroth = the mouth, the opening of liberty, free
speech.
"Migdol = greatness, a tower, proud and lofty men, Jesus
Christ.
"Baal-zephon = secrecy, that sees and observes.
"Libya = the heart of the sea, understanding, purpose.
"Amun = mystery, concealment, clandestined, underhand.
"David == carnal love. Father of Jesus Christ (Matt.
1:1). David became enamored with the wife of Uriah, and
forcibly outraged her and she bore him a bastard child. God
killed the child and forgave David. David then killed Uriah
The Awakening 209
and took his wife as a concubine. Her name was Bath-sheba
or Bath-shua, meaning the well of the oath or wealth. Uriah
means light, knowledge.
" 'Carnal love' destroys knowledge and confiscates wealth.
"Solomon = son of David by Bathsheba. Solomon means
recompense. Sol = sun, om = sun, on = sun.
"Shishak = holding the bag.
"Jeroboam — fighting against increasing the people.
"Rehoboam = the emancipator.
"Judea = praise, approval.
"Asa = physician, healer.
"Shobach = net, captivity.
"Hoshea = salvation, deliverance, rescue.
"Joshua = increased wealth.
"Shalmaneser = leniency, mercy.
"Terhakah = exalted enquirer.
"Sennacherib = solitude, care, trouble, anxiety.
"Hezekiah — support of the Lord, strength of God.
"Esarhaddon = conquering, finding joy.
"Josiah = God heals, the Lord burns.
"Necho = a smitten land.
"Cyrus = the sun.
"Persia = the destroyer.
"Alexander — a defender.
"King = a tribe.
"Macedon = extended.
"Corinth = ornamenting, decoration.
"Cyprus = fairness, impartial.
"Cilicia = revolution.
"Pamphylia = a mixture of nations.
"Mesopotamia = abundance.
"Semitic = name, fame, renown.
"Accadia = fortified, strengthened, prepared.
"Tartary = darkness, ignorance, misery.
"Nimrod = rebellion, insurrection, revolt.
"Babel = mixture, confusion, disorder, disorganization.
"Chedorlaomer = a generation of servitude, advantage.
210 The Awakening
"Elamite — a young priest, a virgin, a secret, an epoch.
"Abraham = a high-priest.
"Damascus = a sockfull of blood, similitude of burning.
"Syria = sublime deceit, trickery, ensnare, delude, entrap.
"Arabia — ambush, betrayal.
"Tigris = vicious command, sharp voice, authority.
"Euphrates = fruitful, profitable.
"Tyrians = powerful, entrenched.
"Ur = fire, region of God's power.
"Chaldea = demons, robbers.
"Media — meditation.
"That's the code story, Doctor.
"This is where it seems to end its continuity as a history
of actual events and places.
"It is clean-cut fake history, and I challenge any authority
to refute this."
"Where did you get this, Grub?" asked the Doctor. "It
is the most convincing indictment against the church I have
yet heard."
Grub placed a book before the Doctor, saying: "Read
this history for your own edification. You may check up
my lists of interpretations as you read:
ANCIENT HISTORY
A Sketch of the History of Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece and Rome
by Lionel W. Lyde, M. A.
Classical Exhibitioner and Modern History Prize.Essayist of
Queen's College, Oxford
Senior English Master at Merchiston Castle School,
Edinburgh (London)
The Doctor slowly read this title and wagged his head.
"Now, Doctor, these names are all found in the Bible
and are thus coded in the ecclesiastic code. Was this history
adjusted to the code, or was the code adjusted to the history?
You will observe that this peculiarity practically ceases at this
point, and deals with the fabulous history of this particular
Egyptian region. It does not occur in his history of Greece,
or with modern history.
The Awakening 211
"It is significant, too, that it covers a territory in which
monastic life thrived, directly preceding the christian exploita
tion. In every hole in the ground which could be called a
cave, the dirty monks lived like wild animals. I give it as
my opinion, Doctor, that none of this history is consecutively
authentic.
"One would-be historian, after another, has repeated this
tommy-rot until it has become as fixed as the fabulous Hebrew
scripture. I believe this all existed before Genesis was dreamed
of.
"And at this point I must call your attention to a singular
coincidence —let us call it that.
"The name Lionel Lyde, in a measure, responds to the
code.
"Lion = seeing, el = God. Seeing God.
"Lyde is closely cognate with Lydda, meaning strife.
Place whatever significance upon this you choose."
"Just a moment, Grub. Let's look up that word Lydda,"
and the Doctor opened his concordance. "Ah, here it is,
an alleged place in the territory of Benjamin. That settles
it. Bejamin is the protection, and go-getter of spoils, for
Israel, the church of Christ (Gen. 49:27). This, too, is sig
nificant. Lydda is Lod, or Lud, meaning strife, and he is
the son of Shem (Gen. 10:22)."
"I do not find the name Lyde among the illustrious
writers," said Grub.
"This is interesting, and fits into your theory of fake
history which destroys things which never existed," said the
Doctor. "In trying to locate Lydda I find it was destroyed
by that ravenous destroyer, Saladin, alleged sultan of Syria.
On the spot stands the church of St. George. It is easy, now,
to understand why Lod means strife. St. George's emblem
is a jolly old priest fighting a dragon—the dragon is that
old serpent of yours, Grub—wisdom. This little digression
had led to something. This St. George's church is still called
Ludd, and is allegedly located somewhere about Jaffa."
212 The Awakening
"The dragon-headed horse of Thibet carries on his back
the books of the law."
"We will make a note of this and go deeper into it at
some future time. I will finish my lesson," said Grub.
"Well, what are your final deductions ?" asked the Doctor.
"I conclude that, if this is true history, it proves that
christianity is a rank fraud, and that the ecclesiasts adjusted
their secret code to these names to forge a history for the
christian scheme to give it priority in origin over modern na
tions, as it forged genealogies to antedate the people in author
ity at the time they introduced the christian church. The
whole scheme was to establish a prior claim to government,
and authority over all the peoples of the world—a universal
religio-political control, with the head of the ecclesia as 'king
of kings' and 'lord of lords.'
"If it is not authentic history, it has been forged in more
recent periods to deceive and mislead humanity.
"The fact that the code does not continue on into modern
history is ample evidence of duplicity, for if the Biblical story
is historical truth, why should not the same system be a con
tinuous story.
"The pretense that mankind suddenly awakened to dis
cover that God had not manifested himself to men over a
period of untold ages, including thousands of years of high
civilization, is pitiful in its rank false-pretense. It was actually
necessary to re-mould humanity by reducing it to a state of
abject ignorance to adjust it to the ecclesiastic scheme of hu
man development. A meaner, more contemptible, purpose never
entered the minds of men, than the idea of destroying the unit
system of nature and reducing humanity to a plastic mass to be
molded, at will, into a militant mob.
"The fact that it is a thing aloof from authentic human
progression, and intrudes its abnormal theories upon legiti
mate civil governments, is ample reason why it should be
rudely suppressed.
"The fact that it swaths itself in mystery, and suggestive
secrecy, ensconcing itself behind stone walls, and locked doors,
The Awakening 213
is a challenge to honest, open governments, and is sufficient
to justify a conscientious government demanding that these
self-posed institutions throw wide open the doors of their dens
for full inspection and explanation.
"The most illogical thing in the United States, is the
fact that these monasteries and nunneries, with their secret
manufacturing outfits, are permitted to continue, hidden and
cloaked beneath an outward pretense of charity, enjoying a
liberty and freedom not granted to the common citizens, and
free of taxation, and government inspection.
"Shall we pose as legal guardians of these institutions,
and insult the best judgment of England and France, who
suppressed them, and confiscated their properties, on ample
grounds of treason?
"The United States would better open its eyes wide. There
is an invisible power heading this nation for a hard fall. If
it does not lay a drastic hand upon the powerful interstate
organizations which now dominate oun legislative bodies,
and stand as the balance of power in political influences, a
revolution, such as the world has never before experienced,
is inevitable."
"Grub!" exclaimed the Doctor, "your indictment is strong
and unanswerable, but you are too late. Organization is the
key to the situation. It has always been the two-edged sword
of ecclesiasticism. It kept the nations of Europe disorganized
for centuries, while the popes of Rome, with their organized,
militant mobs, dictated to the sovereigns of Europe, crown
ing kings, and kicking their crowns from their cowardly heads,
to show their contempt for them.
"The organizations in the United States, today, are so
strongly entrenched, they may not be quickly suppressed. The
militant mobs of the middle ages are now the paid claqueurs
of the system.
"Nature corrects these abnormal things in her own pe
culiar ways.
"The greatest fear in the ecclesiastic heart, today, in the
United States, is that it has pressed natural laws too far.
214 The Awakening
Reaction is as powerful as action. Reaction is as manifest
in this nation as day and night.
"The people have been pressed beyond mental endur
ance. Insanity, crime and poverty have come to the front
with horrid audacity. They stand grinning, and eager to pounce
upon those powers which have been forcing them over the
precipice. The militant mobs are now merging into madness,
which knows neither reason nor fear. Grub, these ghastly
forces will override all law and rend this nation. It is in
evitable, and vindicates nature.
"While this is highly interesting in connection with our
studies it is taking us away from your main theme. I will
let you return now to your similitudes," said the Doctor.
"Well, as I have previously said," began Grub, "there is
every evidence that christianity is a disguised nature-worship,
with personified executive forces. They have personified
every visible thing of consequence in nature. Moreover, to
suppress them, or utilize them, they have unblushingly plagiar
ized every important doctrine of previous religions available
for their purpose, revamping them for their uses. Never
theless, they give preference to visible natural phenomena,
a clean-cut nature-worship in disguise, to enable them to se
cretly confiscate the traditional nature study by the gnostics.
"You may add the following convincing symbolism to the
long list we have examined:
"The sun is God.
'"For the Lord God is a sun' (Ps. 84:11).
'"Jehovah the most high over the earth' (Ps. 83:18).
"The light of the sun is Christ.
"
'I am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
" 'The moon is the 'church of God' (Songs 6:10).
"
'The earth is producing mankind' (Gen. 6:11).
"The system makes chosen men on earth gods, to repre
sent God in heaven.
"An analysis of the word heaven demonstrates it signifies
the visible expanse above. He is the prefix to make the term
The Awakening 215
heaven masculine as distinguished from the earth feminine
—mother earth. Aven means nothingness, empty space.
"
'And the Lord said unto Moses, see, I have made thee
a God to Pharaoh, and Aaron, thy brother, shall be thy
prophet' (Exodus 7:1).
"He had previously made Moses God unto Aaron.
"It is upon this the church bases its right to make and
unmake kings and dictate their duties.
"This makes it quite clear that the christian God is but
the chief or head of the clan. King means clan or tribe.
"Moses means a multitude of laws.
"Hence the law dictates as a God to kings.
"Aaron means the teacher.
"Hence the law is God to the teacher.
"Both Moses and Aaron are high-priests.
"The church allows no debate upon the question of its
assumed original authority.
"The fact
is,
it
requires no argument to prove endless
fraud, and false-pretense, in an attempt to establish the doc
trine of infallibility in the declarations of super church au
thority.
"I am just now interested in the church error of falsify
ing history as evidence to favor its inconsistent attitude toward
established civil governments."
"That makes travel seem trivial," remarked the Doctor.
"Just
a
few more accusing symbolisms and
I
will end
the story," said Grub.
"Clouds mean concealment, mystery.
"Wind means war.
"Rain means doctrines.
"Dew means conversions.
"Waters mean
a
multitude of peoples and laws.
"Fire means judgments.
"Lightning means vengeance.
"Earthquakes mean revolutions.
"That
is
quite sufficient, Doctor, for one lesson. In view
of these exposures, any one who still declares that he believes
216 The Awakening
the ecclesiastical exploitation is an honorable thing, is either
a sycophant, indifferent fool, profiting by this belief, or is a
knave, dangerous to society."
"I am compelled to agree with you, Grub, but now let
us rest," said the Doctor.
CHAPTER XX
"I'm a bit sluggish this morning, Grub. I'd rather listen
than talk," said the Doctor, as he took a restful position in
a comfortable arm-chair.
"Very well, Doctor, I will try to amuse you," replied Grub.
"I have been examining the early chapters in Genesis, and
I must confess, I become more and more puzzled that the
Bible has so long been permitted to remain in circulation,
viewed from its literary aspect, for it cannot be of educational
value, and teaches little of value as to religion. Nevertheless,
beneath its simplicity is great mystery—and concealment of
ulterior things, both good and evil.
"I will merely recite some of the absurd inconsistencies
found in its reading, without drawing you into a discussion.
Now listen to these and laugh.
"First, I want to call your attention to the fact, that,
the first ten words in the Bible reveal the whole church scheme
reduced to two words. Moreover, the words 'God' and
'heaven' in the original, are in the plural, 'Gods' and 'heavens.'
" 'In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth'
(Gen. 1:1).
"Heaven means the ecclesiastical government.
"Earth means producing mankind.
"This specifically betrays that the original intent was to
establish a universal, theocratic, super-control and authority
over mankind and his productive powers.
"This absurd statement, that the fabulous heaven and the
earth are practically the whole of basis creation, disputes the
science of astronomy.
"Moreover, the suggestion of a beginning in the planetary
creation, which is available for the scrutiny of man, to enable
him to specify a beginning, is pitifully childish.
"Only one construction may be put upon this first verse
of Genesis, and that is the one which is revealed by the secret
code.
217
218 The Awakening
"I challenge the church to refute my deduction.
"There are so many simple-minded inconsistencies found
in the diction of the Bible, one cannot have a respect for
its literal reading.
"But, when read with understanding, it is a clean-cut
conspiracy.
"In Genesis 1 :4, God divided the light from the darkness.
This was on the first day of the creation, and he had not
made the sun, moon, nor stars. Therefore we may only look
for the figurative significance of light and darkness.
"Light, in this instance, means intellect, knowledge, under
standing, education.
"Darkness means ignorance, misery, adversity.
"Only one construction may be put upon this. It means
a premeditated separation of the educated class from the
uneducated masses. History proves it. For a thousand years
greater humanity was smothered in enforced ignorance. The
period between 486 and 1495 is branded in the forehead of
every ecclesiast.
"In Gen. 1:16, 17, 18, God made two great lights; the
greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the
night.
"This was on the fourth day.
"Before he had made the sun, he had alternating light
and darkness, which he named day and night.
"
'God called the light day and the darkness he called
night, and the evening and the morning were the first day'
(Gen. 1:5).
"Now, can you explain that ?
"It's absurd enough that they make the earth before they
make the sun.
"You will observe also that they begin their day with
the evening instead of the morning, which is another evi
dence that this evening was the approaching darkness of ig
norance —the 'dark ages.'
"I especially call your attention to God having created
the heaven. Where did he reside previous to this? It adds
The Awakening 219
materially to corroborate the code significance of heaven as
the ecclesiastical government.
"
'God is power and authority.'
"Genesis agrees with science, that animal life begins in
the waters. The tendency for the fishes to rise and fly in
the air intimates that this evolution includes the birds. Whereas
in Gen. 2:19, the earth is given credit for producing the fowl
of the air. Why these contradictions?
"In Gen. 1 :29, 30, both man and beast is given vegetation
for food, but God refused the vegetable offerings of Cain,
the tiller of the soil, and accepted the mutton of Abel, the
herdsman, thus setting the example for men to eat the flesh
of animals. This was cold-blooded, premeditated murder. But
the clearer significance is that the ecclesia is supported by
the priesthood.
"You will remember our lesson, Doctor, suggesting the
creation of forms before their material manifestation, as a
man conceives a thing in his mind before he makes
it.
Clearly
the makers of Genesis held this same idea, and their materials
were humanity at large.
"
'God created every plant of the field before
it
was in
the earth, and every herb of the field before
it
grew' (Gen.
2:5).
"This
is
a
human process, and preceded the forming of
man from the dust
of
the ground, meaning the storm breath,
feebleness, countless numbers.
"Even the grass, and seed-bearing herbs, and fruit-bearing
trees, preceded the creation of the sun. This
is
imbecilic.
Without moisture and sunlight, vegetation
is
impossible.
"Why does
a
nation permit such fabulous stuff to con
tinue in circulation by
a
powerful organization, thus deliber
ately deceiving the people for selfish ends?
"I find an extraordinary contradiction in the second chap
ter of Genesis.
"God forbade man to partake of the tree of knowledge,
saying
:
220 The Awakening
"
'For in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely
die' (Gen. 2:17).
"Now this thing they call God must have known he was
uttering a lie, or else he is not all-knowing, for man did par
take, and he did not die, but became a God.
"In Gen. 3 :4, the serpent declared to them : 'Ye shall
not surely die. Ye shall become as gods.'
"This proves conclusively that gods were the educated
priests—ordinary men.
"The evidence comes out of the mouth of God himself:
"
'Behold the man has become as one of us' (Gen. 3:22).
"So God kicked Adam out of the Garden of Eden —the
place of culture, the university life, to prevent his partaking
of the tree of everlasting life—education, the gnostic wisdom,
which alone can free him from the lower animals.
"In the translation of the Bible from the earliest manu
scripts, a 'pious fraud' was perpetrated. In the first and sec
ond chapters of Genesis, the plural 'gods' was uniformly
translated into the singular 'God,' and 'the Adam,' meaning the
earth, was translated into 'Adam.'
"There is a very good reason why mankind at large was
ignorant of these frauds. It was fifteen hundred years after
the introduction of christianity before the Bible was available,
even to learned men, and then, burning at the stake threat
ened one found with a Bible in his possession.
"Now, Doctor, I am confirmed in my belief, that the Gen-
esistic story reveals that the ecclesiastic priesthood was
originally familiar with the gnostic wisdom, which teaches
that the final purpose of nature was to perfect a permanent
physical life, with a universal mental contact. It was the
selfish purpose of this priesthood to acquire this exalted posi
tion, and to shut out from it the masses of people.
"Here is another funny error: 'Adam heard the voice of
God walking in the garden in the cool of the day.'
"The word voice is cognate with the Hebrew Bath-kol.
Bath means well, or the mouth ; kol is voice or word. There
The Awakening 221
fore, Adam heard the hole, out of which God's voice issued,
walking in the garden.
"Don't you think, Doctor, Adam, in this particular flight
of imagination, was a wine-soaked priest, walking in the mon
astic garden to cool off?
"Here are some interesting items.
"
'God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he
slept' (Gen. 2:21).
"Do you know that God never awakened Adam? Who
did?
"God never forbade Eve's partaking of knowledge while
in the Garden of Eden, because it was before she was made
of Adam's rib—the crescent moon cast off the side of the
earth. It becomes essential to adopt the moon to symbolize
the church, because it is in contact with the universal forces.
"God told the serpent he should travel on his stomach for
undeceiving Eve. How had he previously traveled?
"Gen. 3:20: Adam called his wife Eve, because she was
the mother of all living —yet neither the original female half
of Adam, nor Eve, had borne children. The fishes, birds
and beasts were made before Adam. Was Eve the mother
of all these?
"Gen. 3:19: God declared that Adam had come out of
the dust of the earth, and should return to it.
"Do you see what this is leading to? It is intended to
make man a special dispensation, that he may not discredit
the priesthood by his likeness.
"They are playing with the gnostic wisdom.
"Adam is the earth. In the code he means earthy. Eve
is life. They produce vegetation and animal life. They are
but symbolical personalities. In the beginning they were
dressed in leaves —the leaves of vegetation.
"In Genesis 3:21, God made them coats of skins—the
animal covering.
"Was God a tailor, or did he have a Jew tailor in his
employ ?
"Now see what happens:
222 The Awakening
"Gen. 4:1 : 'Adam —the earth —knew his wife—Eve —life,
and she conceived and bore Cain.
"Cain is the vegetation, in 'possession' of the earth by
contact. As a 'fugitive' he is the wild, spreading, uncultivated
vegetation.
"It is again peculiar that God drove out the man from
the Garden of Eden, but says nothing about driving out the
woman. This is gnostic. Eve is life and desire. Not even
the priesthood would surrender these normal elements —hence
the nunneries.
"In Gen. 3 :22 is a clear intimation that by some secret
process man may acquire eternal life, but not necessarily a
physical state of being. This is another evidence that the
priesthood sought to rise to this degree of perfection through
secret intellectual training at the expense of greater humanity.
"Gen. 4:17: Cain knew his wife and she bore Enoch,
meaning dedicated, devoted, consecrated, apportioned.
"This could only apply to the apportionment of vegeta
tion for the priesthood and the masses, for there was no
woman whom Cain could call his wife but 'mother earth.'
"Adam had previously begotten Abel, the atmosphere,
breath for the respiratory animals.
"Cain was a tiller of the earth.
"Abel was a keeper of sheep.
"Here is the explanation in code or symbol.
"Cain was the common leader of the masses, civil gov
ernment, cultivating the earthy people, the producing humanity.
Earth means the producer.
"Abel, the breath, symbolized the keeper of the temple,
the priesthood—the atmosphere.
"Sheep mean disciples or followers of the leader. Christ
declares he is a shepherd (John 10:11).
"The herbs and grass symbolize the lower classes; the
trees symbolize the higher classes, the great nobles —the syco
phant church followers.
"Cain's offspring was not acceptable to God, because of
its being material.
The Awakening 223
"Abel's offspring was acceptable, because it was spiritual
—the priesthood lives in his own exclusive atmosphere and
environment.
"God blessed his disciples but he did not bless the com
mon herd.
"All of this is a concealed lesson in gnosticism. We have
previously had a peep into it in our gnostic examination of
the human body.
"The seat of God is the brain.
"The Garden of Eden is the thorax.
"The earth is the abdomen and pelvic region.
"God refused to assimilate the solid vegetable food of
fered by Cain, but accepted the vibratory food of Abel.
"Do you get this, Doctor? The solids went to sustain
the earthy tissues of the body, that
is,
to build the temple,
the human body, and the vibratory was assimilated by the
mental processes, in the brain, lungs and heart.
"Let us see what this system produces.
"Adam again knew his wife, and she bare him Seth.
"Eve exclaimed
:
'God has appointed me another seed
instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.' This was because Abel
was the breath, having no power of material reproduction.
The inhalation of the vegetation, destroyed the atmosphere as
the breath of animals, carrying the nitrogen of the atmos
phere into the earth.
" 'And to Seth, to him also there was born
a
son, and
he called his name Enos. Then began men to call upon the
name of the Lord' (Gen. 4:26).
"Vegetation could not call upon the Lord.
"Seth means compensation, respiration, and symbolizes
the respiratory animals.
"Enos means mortal man, subject to temptation and fall.
"Now, Doctor, this
is
a
confession that, in this creative
scheme, this so-called God premeditatedly planned the fall of
mankind into
a
sinful state as
a
part of the exploitation,
by cunning temptation.
"But that which
is
of greater importance
is,
that the first
224 The Awakening
line created, up to Seth, was vegetation. Seth is the begin
ning of the respiratory animal life. The meaning of Seth,
compensation, reveals this. The animals breathe oxygen and
exhale carbon dioxide. The vegetation inhales carbon dioxide
and exhales oxygen.
"Out of Seth evolutes Enos, meaning mortal man, sub
ject to temptation and fall, being made subject to temptation
and fall by God himself.
"This is why the church attempts to suppress evolution.
"We may now understand why two distinct lines come
out of Adam, the line of Cain, and the line of Seth: the one
is the vegetation, the other the animal life, which terminates
with man.
"Hence we read with understanding:
"
'And so it is written. The first man Adam was made
a living soul ; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.
"
'Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that
which is natural ; and afterward that which is spiritual ?
"
'The first is of the earth, earthy ; the second man is the
Lord from heaven' (1 Cor. 15).
"The genealogy of Jesus Christ is not of the line of Cain,
possession, but of the line of Seth, compensation —compensa
tion between the body and the brain.
"Possession means ownership.
'
"Compensation means remuneration, exchange.
"
'Do ye not know that they which minister about holy
things live of the things of the temple?' (1 Cor. 9:13).
"
'Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that
the spirit of God dwelleth in you? (1 Cor. 3:16).
"
'What ? Know ye not that your body is the temple of
the holy-ghost which is in you, which ye have of God?' (1 Cor.
6:19).
"Here is a distinction between the seat of God and the
seat of the holy-ghost.
"The brain is the seat of God.
"The lungs are the seat of the holy-ghost.
"The heart is the seat of Christ.
The Awakening 225
"Now, Doctor, we have located the bodies of the God,
Christ and holy-ghost principles in the human being, and we
identify them as thought, speech and action.
"God is mentation in the brain.
"Christ is circulation in the heart.
"The holy-ghost is the breath, respiration."
"We are getting closer to our goal with each lesson, Grub,"
softly said the Doctor. "I suppose you see also that you
have explained the riddle of Christ being the son of both God
and man. There are two complete systems involved in the
composition of the man. The head, and the brain and nervous
system, are one, and the body, and the heart and circulatory
system the other. Christ is in the sympathetic nerves as a part
of the God principle. Hence Jesus says:
"
'My father and I are one.'
"He means his godly father.
"After all, the whole christian theme is but a concealed
gnostic romance.
"It is easy to see why humanity was raped by the am
bitious ecclesiastic priesthood, and debased into imbecilic ig
norance. They aspired to a monopoly of all learning that
they could commercialize it as a means of support."
"Yes, Doctor, and they wilfully set the example for gov
ernments to follow in the commercialization of crime," said
Grub.
"The church originated, lives, thrives and has its whole
being in evil. It must cultivate and continue evil or go out
of business. But, to save its own face, it must inspire and
sustain civil governments in the same game, and secretly con
nive in the cultivation of evil. This is reflected by the multi
tude of laws being passed by legislative bodies, drawing all
humanity into a criminal net.
"They confess this:
"
'Now we know that whatsoever the law saith, it saith
to them who are under the law ; that every mouth may be
stopped, and all may become guilty' (Rom. 3:19).
226 The Awakening
"Thus free speech must be muzzled, and all men must
be legislated into crime.
"Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh
be justified, for by the law is the knowledge of sin' (Rom.
3:20).
"This theory of the law is a clean-cut treason against
the spirit of the constitution of the United States.
"There is a definite purpose in the smothering of this
nation in criminal laws.
"
'The law worketh wrath ; for where no law is there is
no transgression' (Rom. 4:15).
'"Sin is the transgression of the law' (1 Jno. 3:4).
'"Wrath bringeth forth strife' (Prov. 30:33).
"
'An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man
aboundeth in transgression' (Prov. 29:22).
"
'He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly' (Prov. 14:17).
"Do you see the awful thing, Doctor?
"The whole nation must be teased and tormented to
anger, that they may be driven to evil by vicious laws to
engender wrath, anger, and insane acts, in order that the
cruel, arbitrary hand of the law may grasp and punish them.
"Why cannot the people understand, that each new crim
inal law added to the already numberless laws, adds a whole
new class of criminals to the appalling list, and increases
the powers of irritation and provocation.
"This is why the nation is going mad. Crime, taxation
and insanity are consuming the masses.
"There is little distinction to be made between indulgences
and the imposing of untold millions in fines under the law,
in so far as the commercialization of evil is concerned. Both
systems rest upon the capitalization of human credulity, and
human mental frailty. Now, Doctor, I will stop and give
you a rest."
"Just a moment, Grub," said the Doctor. "I have been
thinking as you talked. I heard all you said, nevertheless,
I have a question to ask. You have, undoubtedly, located
the seat of the living principle which the ecclesiasts name the
The Awakening 227
Christ. Explain exactly how this principle communicates
with us without speaking through a third person."
"That is made very clear in several parts of the Bible,"
replied Grub.
"
'And the Lord spake unto you out of the midst of the
fire; ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude,
only ye heard a voice' (Deut. 4:12).
"You remember we determined that the seat of fire in
the human anatomy was the heart. Christ is symbolized by
the oxygen wave. This voice was coming from the heart, but
without similitude of spoken words. The difference between
this voice, and the spoken voice, is explained as a shout, in
Joshua 6:10. Now, remember, Joshua is Jesus, who says:
'My father and I are one.'
"Jesus asks : 'Why do ye not understand my speech ? even
because ye cannot hear my words' (John 8:43). Conclusively
proving that Jesus did not verbally preach to the people.
"Samuel explains the process :
"
'The Lord called Samuel, and he answered, Here am I.
"
'And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I ; for thou
calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again, and
he went and lay down.
"
'And the Lord called yet again, and again Eli declared
he did not call, and again bade him lie down.
"
'Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither the
word of the Lord yet revealed unto him' (1 Sam. 3).
"Then Eli proceeded to teach Samuel to come in con
tact with the Lord.
"Now, Jesus is the 'word of God' (Rev. 19:13) and that
means the subconscious mind. Samuel was not familiar with
the workings of the subconscious mind, hence he knew not
the Lord. That is why Eli bade him lie down. He thus as
sumed the trance state.
"The gospel of the new testament did not exist at the
alleged time that Jesus was on earth.
"We heard Cronus speaking to us while in a subconscious
state. No matter by what name, the principle is the same.
228 The Awakening
The ecclesiasts choose to personify it and call it Jesus, or
Christ. We call it Cronus; both signify the subconscious
mind."
"Grub, that is the clearest explanation you have made.
I know, now, beyond further doubt, that in order to bring
ourselves into understanding contact with the universal men
tation we must exercise and cultivate a control over our sub
conscious mind," and the Doctor looked very thoughtful.
"Yes, Doctor," continued Grub, "and here is the essence
of it. Our experience with Cronus was a vital thing. We
awakened suppressed memory. Memory is the all-important
contact. Memory, like time, knows all the past. If we could
vividly recall our dreams while we sleep, we would reveal
amazing things. Our trance experiences are but semi-waking
dreams, dealing with memory of past ages.
"Now we may understand why Cronus could not peer
into the future. Memory is not of the future, it is of the
past."
"My God ! Grub, I can now grasp the horrors of the
crime against nature, committed by the ecclesiasts in the sup
pression of gnosticism, and the plunging of humanity in ignor
ance. This permanently destroyed the intent of nature to
people this earth with a perfect race," and the Doctor leaned
wearily back in his chair.
"That is true, Doctor," replied Grub. "The lesion cannot
be mended. Every cell in the human body is essential to
its integrity. If we suppress most of them for the benefit of
the few, it ceases to normally function. The same holds good
in the greater body of mankind at large. That is why the
priesthood is no nearer to the original goal today, than the
average man."
"I see ! I see ! All mankind is in a state of semi-imbe
cility. Men do not consciously understand the difference be
tween good and evil in the universal sense. They believe all
good and evil has reference to antagonisms between each
other. All the criminal laws that may be passed in a thousand
years cannot change the situation. Each new criminal law but
The Awakening 229
increases this antagonism on the part of the units of the same
body.
"When the ecclesiasts conceived the idea of crushing
greater humanity into a plastic mass, to destroy unit influ
ence, it destroyed the purposes of nature, for all intercourse
of living nature is from unit to unit.
"Even the beastly body of the priest betrays his selfish
motives, by his sleek, fat person, lolling in ease and comfort
at the expense of the struggling masses. But let us stop now,
Grub. This lesson is worthy of deep thought," and the Doc
tor arose.
Grub handed him a slip of paper : "In the last two years,
fourteen states have spent seventy millions for the housing
of their insane. In many states the increase has been so great
they cannot be cared for out of public treasuries."
CHAPTER XXI
"Grub, your stuff yesterday set my blood boiling, but out
of it came some calm thought, and my mind especially reverted
to your startling proposition that you had established the
physiological positions of the God, Christ and holy-ghost
principles in man. That is of tremendous help to us in our
further research. I am going to try to identify the actual
tissues involved," and the Doctor spread open his books.
"The holy-ghost has long ago been identified as the breath,
or the respiratory power of the breathing animals.
"Now, the very fact that we can demonstrate that respira
tion is controlled by the tenth pair of nerves, called the
pneumo gastric nerves, or vagi, reveals the part of the brain
in which the godly seat is located. Moreover, the name re
veals the path by which the principle, named the Christ,
reaches both respiration and digestion. This Christ principle
thus represents the sending to the earth, as represented by
the abdomen, God's only begotten son. We have previously
followed the course of this principle through the process of
digestion and assimilation. We at once recognize that this
is the process by which the digested products of the stomach
receive the element which converts them into living cells.
"How simple this is. The life in the cell is the Christ
principle. Christ declares :
"
T am the way, the life. No man cometh unto the father,
but by me' (John 14:6).
"The cell, with the life, is the Christ principle clothed
in a material body, and is now the son of man, born of water.
Later it will partake of the holy-ghost, the fruits of respira
tion, and will be 'born of the spirit' (Jno. 3:6).
"
'Your life is hid with Christ in God.'
"
'When Christ, who is your life, shall appear, then shall
ye also appear with him in glory' (Col. 3:3, 4).
"
'That which is born of the flesh is flesh ; and that
which is born of the spirit is spirit' (John 3:6).
230
The Awakening 231
"You may now see to what extent the ecclesiasts plagiar
ized and personified the gnostic knowledge of the human
body.
"There was, absolutely, no other source from which they
could have confiscated this knowledge. But to continue my
lesson.
"The pneumogastric nerve runs farther through the body
than any other cranial nerve, giving out branches to the
pharynx, the gullet, stomach, larynx, windpipe, lungs and
heart, all absolutely essential to maintain life in the body.
"Boy ! You have made a tremendous discovery. Do you
know that twelve pairs of nerves leave the skull by apertures
in its base, and are known as the cranial nerves? This is the
basic of the mystic twelve running through the Bible—espe
cially the twelve apostles, meaning sent forth.
"The first pair are the nerves of smell.
"The second pair are the optic nerves.
"The third pair operate the eye-ball and eye-lids.
"The fourth pair pass to the mouth, base of brain and
the eye-balls.
"The fifth pair resemble the spinal nerves, having two
roots, and supply branches to many parts and membranes of
the face, the nose and upper teeth.
"The sixth pair also contribute to the eye-ball.
"The seventh pair are distributed to the muscles of face
and scalp.
"The eighth pair (the auditory nerves) are close to the
facial nerves. They are the nerves of hearing and are dis
tributed entirely to the internal ear.
"The ninth pair are distributed to the mucous membrane
of the pharynx, the back part of the tongue, and the middle
ear.
"The tenth pair—the pneumogastric.
"Now we have something spooky :
"As we, have previously seen, it provides life itself to the
respiratory process, to the digestive process, and to the dis
232 The Awakening
tribution of nourishing elements to all parts of the body
through the control of the circulation.
"When God made his bargain with Jacob, meaning usurpa
tion, or to supplant, Jacob agreed to pay to God a tribute of
ten per cent (Gen. 28).
"
'And concerning the tithing of the herd, or of the flock,
the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord' (Lev. 27:32).
"'And, behold, I have given the children of Levi (the
tax gatherer) all the tenth in Israel, for their service to the
tabernacle of the congregation' (Num. 18:21).
"Levi means the priesthood.
"Congregation means the tissues to be nourished.
"Tabernacle means the human body, and skin.
"
'A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the
Lord; even to his tenth generation' (Deut. 23:2).
"A number of bastards are found in the genealogy of
both Matthew 1 and Luke 3. Moreover, the 'immaculate con
ception' casts no credit upon ecclesiastical ideas of decency.
Science refutes it.
"
'And he will take the tenth of your seeds and of your
vineyards, and give to his officers and to his servants' (1 Sam.
8:15).
"Old Sam told it right that time. The people asked for
a king, and the Lord told Samuel to warn them of what
would follow.
"This all has reference to the earthy man, but it reveals
a secret theory that one-tenth of the products of digestion
is the 'first fruits' which go towards nourishing the brain and
nervous system. These cranial nerves are mostly distributed
to the head.
"The eleventh pair of cranial nerves are named the spinal
accessory nerves. It separates into two parts, one part join
ing the pneumogastric.
"The twelfth pair are distributed mainly to the muscles
of the tongue and the hyoid bone.
"Grub, this is the ecclesiastical symbol of the 'kingdom
of God.'
The Awakening 233
"
'For, behold, the kingdom of God is within you' (Luke
17:21).
"The name apostle means one sent forth. Literally, one
sent forth to preach.
"Christ appointed twelve apostles. Therefore the twelve
pairs of cranial nerves must mean the twelve sons of Israel,
as well as the twelve apostles.
"Let us examine the twelve sons of Israel, to ascertain
their functions, in the establishing of the church of Christ.
"Jacob means usurpation by trickery.
"Rebekah means snare, trickery, trap.
"These beget the twelve sons of Israel.
"Reuben —vision.
"Simeon —hearing.
"Levi —smell.
"Judah—taste.
"Issachar —breathing.
"Zebulun —nourishing.
"Dan —discretion.
"Joseph —increase.
"Banjamin —protection.
"Naphtali—consultation.
"Gad —preparation.
"Asher—gratification.
"We quickly recognize that these approximate the in
stincts and senses aroused in the centres of sensation in the
human body, by the twelve pairs of sensory nerves.
"This is why the Bible credits God with possessing and
exercising the external sense organs.
"
'God saw that the wickedness of man was great' (Gen.
6:5).
"'God heard their groanings' (Ex. 2:24).
"'God smelled a sweet savour of cooking flesh' (Gen.
8:21).
"This is the exercise of human senses.
"Let us see to what extent Christ adjusts his twelve
apostles to human attributes.
234 The Awakening
"The names of the twelve are (Matt. 10:2) :
"Simon (same as Simeon) —hearing, obedience, who is
called.
"Peter (Simon-Peter as one)
—hardness of heart, a rock.
"Andrew (brother to Peter) —a strong, stout man.
"James (same as Jacob) —supplanter, son of Zebedee,
portion.
"John (brother of the usurper, James)
—giving gifts.
"Philip —warlike.
"Bartholomew —a son who suspends the power of the
people.
"Thomas —sound, abyss.
"Matthew—reward, gifts (Levi the tax gatherer) (Mark
2:14).
"James (Jacob) — usurper, son of Alphaeus, changing,
learned.
"Lebbaeus —brave, strong heart, surname Thaddaeus, wise.
"Simon (the Canaanite)
—merchandizing, trading.
"Judas—praise. Iscariot—restitution, man of murder.
"These are the alleged twelve apostles, sent forth by
Jesus Christ, with this subtle injunction:
"
'Be thou as wise as serpents and harmless as doves'
(Matt. 10:16).
"Jesus admitted he chose the devil as one of his disciples
(Jno. 6:76).
"Israel is mental. The apostles are physical.
"A man's character may be measured by the company
he keeps.
"Why, Doctor, these are not men, they are but the re
quired qualifications of the priesthood."
"Exactly so, Grub. There is not one single authentic
evidence, outside the Bible, that one of them ever existed
in fact," replied the Doctor.
"This suggests a close scrutiny of this christian char
acter named Jesus Christ.
"The first thing to manifest itself
is,
that by no stretch
of the imagination can he be connected with the pretended
The Awakening 235
genealogies named in Matthew 1 :1 and Luke 3, composed
of some of the most criminal characters ever mentioned in
print; bastards, adulterers, murderers, thieves, robbers, liars
and fakirs.
"These so-called genealogies are merely intended to por
tray human frailties.
"Even the Bible repudiates them, and warns against their
fabulous character.
"
'Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies'
(1 Tim. 1:4).
"The absurd and suggestive birth of Jesus casts a sinister
light upon the truthfulness of christianity.
"The only excuse given for the fabulous story is :
"
'Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which
was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying,
"
'Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring
forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, being
interpreted
is,
God with us' (Matt.
1
:22, 23).
"Now add to this the fact that the name Jesus
is
but the
Greek form of Joshua,
a
Jew savior, and one must be
a
fool
to believe such rot.
"Many times
it
is
admitted that these pretended freaks
are but
a
falsehood to enforce the fulfilment of fake prophecy.
"The prophecy regarding this miraculous birth
is
:
"
'Behold
a
virgin shall conceive, and bear
a
son, and
shall call his name ImmanueF (Isa. 7:14).
"We may understand the purpose of this absurd prophecy
by
a
reference to the code.
"Isaiah of the old testament
is
Esaias of the new testa
ment, and both names mean 'salvation of the Lord.'
"Salvation means redemption, rescue, ransom.
"Now, Grub, this
is
a
pretty story:
"This 'virgin Mary' story
is
as old as civilization.
"The goddess of wisdom, of the Egyptians, said:
"
'I
am that which
is,
has been, and shall be, and no
man has lifted my veil.'
236 The Awakening
"The prophet whom it is so important to vindicate is Is-
a-iah.
"Is means light. A means the primal cause, iah is jah,
meaning self-existence. Is-ra-el is: Is, the light of ra, the
sun, is
el,
the first cause.
"The Hebrews express Isis as Jesse, and Isaiah prophesied
that, out of the root of Jesse (Isis—wisdom) would arise this
fabulous being.
"The very fact that
it
turns out to be Jesus Christ,
who declares himself to be 'the light of the world' and the
'wisdom of God,' proves, conclusively, that
it
was essential
to the christian scheme to establish, as a self-sustaining thing,
the system which
it
named Israel, and the source of all
light and wisdom. Is in Israel is identical with Isis, the
Egyptian goddess of light; light meaning revealed wisdom,
knowledge.
"It was John who prepared the way for the introduction
of Jesus, and John means liberal gifts to God.
"This gives us
a
clue to another important fact, which
bears out the statement that
it
was three hundred years after
Christ that the gospels of the new testament were made known.
In the year A. D. 321, Emperor Canstantine issued a decree
permitting the christians to build churches and accept gifts
and donations, which previously was not permitted. The most
important book in the Bible, in as far as the United States
is
concerned, Revelation, was unknown till 1672."
"Wait
a
moment, Doctor,
I
think
I
can throw some light
upon the origin of that redemption idea, proving that
it
was
originally the intention of the church to levy
a
pole-tax on
the people to maintain the church. Ah, here
it
is
:
"
'Every man shall give
a
ransom for his soul unto the
Lord' (Ex. 30:12).
"
'The rich shall not give more and the poor shall not
give less than half
a
sheckel as an offering to the Ixird"
(Ex. 30:15.
"The soul
is
the living body.
The Awakening 237
"The invention of purgatory goes this one better, because
it levies a tax on the dead body, notwithstanding:
"
'God is not the God of the dead but of the living'
(Matt. 22:32).
"You see, in the christian dispensation John is merely
'getting back' to the old practice in a disguised form, upon
the 'restoration' of this system of premeditated graft, the in
troduction of Jesus Christ depended. What good would be
in the peddling of wisdom if the church was starving? The
old form of taxation could not be restored, hence John means
free gifts to God. Levi was the tax collector, but this could
not be enforced, hence Levi became Matthew, gifts to God.
"These gifts take the following forms:
"Gen. 34:12 as a recompense.
"Exodus 30:12 as a ransom.
"Deut. 16:19 as a bribe.
"Daniel 5:17 as a reward.
"Matt. 2:11, wise men gave gifts of gold.
"Matt 5 :23, free will offerings.
"In our time direct and indirect taxation in a myriad of
forms, by both church and state, are devouring us. Absurd
extravagances are termed civic necessities, with thousands
pleading for soup and bread."
"Yes, acquisition, by fair means or foul, is the main
spring of national life. Taxation is a well organized extortion,
not to meet public necessities, but to provide for and support
political emergencies," agreed the Doctor.
"I have often wondered, Grub, if there could not be de
vised some scheme which would abolish political parties, and
conduct the government in a manner to remove official patron
age, favoritism, and graft. Bribery with political office is
becoming a legitimate evil under our present system. There
is no way of repaying the tremendous sums spent upon can
didates for high office, but through the appointive power,
and favoring legislation—the people must pay.
"This has built up a public service, and multiplied offices
four times greater than they normally should be."
238 The Awakening
"Yes, and we have at no time found the christian schemers
engaged in anything more important than accumulating, by
devious coercive methods, the wealth created by the people.
In two thousand years, not one important factor in the civiliz
ing and edification of the masses, may be accredited to the
church. On the contrary, the most authentic history we have,
reveals, as a fact, that the church has given its influence to
the destruction of men, both by wars and by murderous cru
sades against innocent peace-abiding countries. Untold millions
have been openly destroyed by the church-inspired inquisitions.
And now we find the churches, with equal frankness, advocat
ing the smothering of the masses in a blanket of drastic and
irritating criminal laws, while the statistical truth may not
be concealed or refuted, crime has increased a thousand fold
during the christian period.
"
'For the law worketh wrath ; for where no law is there
is no transgression' (Rom. 4:15)" and Grub viciously closed
his Bible.
"You handed me a slap, at the end of our sitting yes
terday, referring to the horrible increase in insanity. I will
hand you one now revealing one of the causes.
"In 1930 a billion and a half dollars was collected in
taxes for the single purpose of building roads. The same
amount was levied for the same purpose in 1931. Yet the
constant cry goes out that millions of people are clamoring
for bread. Does this not prove that government officials are
insane ?
CHAPTER XXII
"Let us snap out of our critical mood, and attempt to
find some advantage in the gnostic trinity so greedily plagiar
ized by the ecclesiasts," said the Doctor.
"I do not see how it is possible to convert the subject to
our theme without reference to the bible," replied Grub.
"For instance, the characters of the christian trinity are
but the personified symbols of physical processes. The char
acter Jesus is born in Bethlehem. Bethlehem means the house
of bread and war. This has reference to the digestive process
in the stomach, in the preparation of bread, which means
food, for distribution and nourishment of the body. The
digestive process may well be likened to a state of war, in
its whirling, battling labors, and its elimination of nonessen
tial elements.
"Herod is king. The name means heroic, in the code,
and has reference to the glowing skin, symbolizing worldly
splendor.
"The Lord warned Joseph, increasing numbers, in a
dream, to carry Jesus into Egypt, meaning oppression and
misery.
"Now, Doctor, you can surely recognize the abdomen as
Egypt, by the old fashioned belly-ache after eating green
apples.
"It was out of the intestines we saw the lymph flowing,
laden with the living leucocytes to be carried into the plasma
of the blood.
"We previously found that lymph means water, and
water means multitudes. This again reminds us that Jesus
symbolizes the increased multitudes.
"Joseph, increased numbers, had carried Jesus, with his
mother Mary, into Egypt. Mary means rebellion.
"Thus did oppression and misery arouse rebellion.
"It is God, nervous impulse, which calls Jesus out of
Egypt.
2::o
240 The Awakening
"'Out of Egypt have I called my son' (Matt. 2:15).
"The killing of the children in Bethlehem, by Herod, was
the elimination of the waste excrements of digestion. The
fact that Jesus was of 'immaculate conception' proves that
he was not a product of reproduction, but of direct creation
out of the raw materials of the earth.
"The process which we are following through digestion
and circulation, is the beginning of the manifestation of God
in the flesh through the Jesus principle.
"We previously found that Jesus did not receive the holy-
ghost, which is nervous force, until the lymph had deposited
its multitudes of living cells into the blood to receive the
benefit of respiration—breath.
"Here is an astonishing thing, proving that the writers of
this Bible stuff were past-masters in the gnostic physiology.
Instead of the products of the lymphatics going directly to
the tissues, they must pass through the circulation of the blood.
This is why Jesus is always so closely allied with blood.
"
'And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood ; and
his name is called the word of God' (Rev. 19:13).
"Joseph was instructed by God to take the child and go
into the land of Israel, which is the invisible nervous system
of the head, face and external sense organs —the church of
Christ, but hearing that Archelaus, the prince of the people,
had succeeded his father, Herod, meaning the glory of the
skin, worldly splendor, they turned aside into parts of Galilee,
meaning a rolling wheel, revolution. And he came and dwelt
in a city called Nazareth —means separated.
"Doctor, this is so simple it makes one laugh. It is simply
depositing the white lymph corpuscles into the circulating
blood, mingling them with the red corpuscles, the rolling
wheels.
"It is at this point the living corpuscles partake of the
products of respiration, and are filled with the holy-ghost.
"
'And they were all filled with the holy-ghost, and began
to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utter
ance' (Acts 2:4).
The Awakening 241
"The holy-ghost is the breath.
"Jesus is the word, speech.
"Jesus received the holy-ghost, respiration, the power of
making vocal sounds, and especially the power of thought—
the unspoken word.
"Now what do you suppose is given as a reason of all
this?
"
'That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the
prophets' (Matt. 2:23).
"
'And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem
of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots' (Isa. 11 :1).
"Jesse is the father of David, carnal love.
"Jesse is the Hebrew form of Isis, the Egyptian god
dess of light.
"Rod means authority.
"Branch means Jesus Christ.
"Jesus declares, 'I am the light of the world' (Jno. 8:12).
"
'I will raise up David a righteous branch, and a king
shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and jus
tice in the earth' (Jer. 23:5).
"Matt. 1 :1 declares that David, carnal love, is the father
of Jesus Christ.
"'Upon one stone shall be seven eyes' (Zech. 3:9).
"The head has two eyes, two ears, two nostrils and the
mouth.
"These are the 'seven eyes.'
'"Christ is the head of the church' (Col. 1:18).
"
'A living stone, disallowed of men but chosen of God'
(1 Peter 2:4).
"Israel is the church of Christ. Is = the light of the
ra = the sun, is the el = first cause.
"Thus the church of Christ poses as the light of the sun,
revealing all things.
"This is purely sun-worship personified in earthy men
calling themselves priests, servants of Jesus Christ —light,
enlightenment. Light means joy, prosperity, knowledge.
"Do you now grasp why the ecclesiasts suppressed gnosti
242 The Awakening
cism and confiscated its wisdom? This was the beginning
of monopoly.
"There is no element of basic religion in the system; it
is purely a business proposition. It attempts to monopolize
the blessings of nature and sell them to mankind for carnal
things—the products of human toil. Its God is a normal,
visible thing, the sun. Its Christ is the light thereof. Its
holy-ghost is the vitalized atmosphere, breathed by all respira
tory animals. There you are !" and Grub leaned back to see
the effect his hot talk had upon the Doctor.
"Why, Grub! This robs us of our inspiration. This is
commonplace physiology, and astronomy, clothed in a fancy
dress, and dignified by these bunk names. We know all this,"
cried the Doctor.
"Of course, but we did not know that the ecclesiasts had,
long ago, hoarded this up, as the gnostic wisdom, to spring
upon ignorant humanity as inspired of their fabulous God
in heaven, after they had seized control of the world.
"Now we may know and understand why the catholic
church attempts to keep the Bible out of our common schools,
and why they are so determined to take over absolute con
trol of the school system of the nation, and why they are
so opposed to scientific research, and belittle reason which
exposes their absurdities. We may safely conclude that the
so-called fundamentalists are part and parcel of this under
ground system —a Jesuit system, determined to seize control
of our schools to fulfill the original ecclesiastic purpose.
"Only recently these usurpers had the brazen affrontery
to seize and burn in the public squares of our southern cities
the standard books of our public schools. But recently they
have boasted control of our legislatures of forty-three states.
And yet, the contemptible, cowardly officials neither arrested
nor punished them, nor permitted the citizens to organize
as a vigilance committee to resent these treasonable acts.
"In view of their own past examples, and the principles
of liberty and justice involved, the perpetrators of this crime
should have been seized and burned upon the same fires."
The Awakening 243
"Ha ! ha ! Grub," laughed the Doctor. "Why do you take
this serious attitude, knowing this devilish power now prac
tically controls this conglomerate nation, through well-estab
lished connivance with political and commercial organizations ?
It now has an unshakable defense against resentment and op
position," and the Doctor waited for Grub to answer.
"I have changed my opinion on that point," replied Grub.
"There is a difference between organizing an ignorant mili
tant mob, by filling it with superstitious fear, and inspiring
the thinking, reasoning, educated classes.
"Upon learning that they have been woefully deceived
and cheated, to promote a heartless hypocrisy, seeking only
power, wealth and self-glorification, the colleges and uni
versities, not already owned and controlled by this jesuitic
power, will bring upon it a campaign of derision and ridicule
which will send it slinking into oblivion.
"It was done in France and England; why not here?
Every nation in Europe repeatedly expelled jesuitry. Why
should this nation mother it? Are we better, or worse, in
our morals, than Europe?" And Grub looked appealingly at
the Doctor.
"Why, Grub, you are raving," said the Doctor. "Don't
you know that every ecclesiastic element, established in this
country, is armed to the teeth? Why is the church training
its younger generation in athletics as never before?
"Why are classes of young catholic women being trained
in the expert use of fire-arms? It is in anticipation of the
very thing you have just suggested. I have watched bodies
of uniformed young catholic youths openly training in the
streets in Washington, with complete military outfits.
"These things are being done openly as safer than in
secrecy. Patriotism? Bah! Yes, patriotism for the cath
olic church. I will wager a goodly sum that, were a raid
made upon the catholic institutions in the United States, a
more complete soldierly outfit would be uncovered than may
be found in the standing army. The United States would
better scrutinize closely the personnel of their state militia.
244 The Awakening
"Do you believe the church seeks to control the schools
because they want to educate the masses which they already
have under control, and at their mercy, through the national
blood—round silver dollars —the money circulation of the na
tion? They don't care a tinker's blank whether the people
can read or write. Did they not hold the whole of mankind
in bondage of imbecilic ignorance for a thousand years? Not
even princes could read or write. What do you see to justify
a belief that they would change a policy which has estab
lished and sustained them for two thousand years?
"Ignorance in the masses is as essential to the integrity
of the church organization, today, as it ever was. Ignorance
does not necessarily mean a blithering fool ; to the church it
means the absence of all thought which might vision and un
derstand the underlying church policies and purposes.
"The sole duty of the visible church is to keep the mob
duly hypnotized into superstitious fear. Ignorance is abso
lutely essential to superstitious fear.
"Nevertheless, Grub, you are close to the only thing which
can undermine this great foe of decent human existence. The
church reduced the mob to a plastic mass, to break up the
unit system of individual and independent thought, which
begets reason, especially that independent reason which is es
sential to national integrity.
"I am convinced that, originally, the priesthood believed
it could develop a unit contact with the universal mentation
to enable them to read the minds of men by a process of
telepathy. Failing in this, they destroyed individual, unit
thought. They fear individual, independent thought today,
more than ever before. It is a notorious fact that an over
developed athlete is almost weak minded, as compared with
men normally developed, mentally and physically."
"Gee ! You're right, Doctor. I had not analyzed the
actual situation to that extent. But what are we to do? Shall
we confess defeat, and sit idly by and see humanity pass into
a condition worse than the Christian hell, which is the grave?
"'The dead know not anything' (Ecc. 9:5)."
The Awakening 245
"While you have your Bible open, look at Prov. 21 :16
and you will see the premeditation of the ecclesiastic cam7
paign of ignorance.
"
'The man who wandereth out of the way of understand
ing shall remain in the congregation of the dead.'
"That gives the status of the ignorant masses," said the
Doctor.
"You amuse me, Grub, in your helplessness. Don't you
see we have aroused in ourselves the identical disease which
will, in due time, inoculate all mankind, if we spread it
cautiously and set up the process of transmitting it from one
human unit to another. That is nature's way, the way of
mental telepathy. One man will transmit the word to another
until the disease will permeate the whole body, and remain
invisible.
"This is why nature endowed humanity with secret
thought, which neither the church nor the law can suppress.
"Teach the people to think and give them something
personal to think about.
"It is secret thought and reason which will organize
the masses.
"It is fear which prevents their organizing into a physical
army.
"No man can control another's secret thoughts, or direct
his private meditations.
"It isn't armed forces we need ; it is courageous, think
ing men, not bound by commercial, political or church influ
ences. It is independent, thinkers."
"I see ! I see !" exclaimed Grub. "But do you suppose
these organized forces will permit us to openly make this
revelation as a text for national thought?"
"Not if they can prevent it. They will suppress it if
possible. They may burn you and me at the stake for boot
legging this forbidden stuff, but that very act would be their
end. The masses, in the United States, make heroes of those
who can stir up the great thrill, and start the big parade.
As in the days in Greece, heroes here are made gods, whether
246 The Awakening
they be prize fighters, baseball idols, or movie stars. The peo
ple will fight for visible, living gods before they will for in
visible gods.
"The ecclesiastical god has long ago lost his prestige. That
is why the church is so strong on Jesus Christ —as God on
earth.
"The pope at Rome is brazenly named 'God on earth,'
and he is butting in hard just now.
"It is political power, and armed authority, which inspire
fear, and control the people today.
"If we publish our discoveries they will quietly find their
way into the secret places in the libraries, as did the book
to which you referred, 'The Resurrection,' or perhaps into
the library furnace. Practically every library in this country
is secretly censored. As long as the masses do not become
inoculated with a desire to exercise the primitive instinct to
think, they can secretly control the limited few who might
get the disease."
"But there is another element, the newspapers," suggested
Grub.
"O, yes, but long ago old Tom Wolsey, cardinal, straight
ened that out, with his celebrated warning:
" 'If the church does not suppress the newspaper, the
newspaper will suppress the church.' You do not see any
strenuous activities on the part of the newspapers to even
criticise obvious defaults in the church. The spirit which
'criticises' the newly published books for the newspapers is
the same identical spirit which censors new books going into
the libraries."
"Wait a moment, Doctor. You are becoming as radical
as I am," said Grub. "We have become so engrossed in our
Biblical criticisms, we are drifting away from our main theme.
That
is,
we are not attempting to solve the problem of our
natural, personal contact with the universal mind. It
is
with
a
shock
I
realize
a
possibility of mentally transmitting to all
humanity truths which have been suppressed for all the cen
turies. You mentioned telepathy. It
is
practically accepted
The Awakening 247
that, by some mysterious mental power, probably akin to
magnetism in its character, thought may be transmitted from
one mind to another. This, I hold, is but a remnant of the
original intent of nature to develop in mankind a thought
in common."
"I thought you would awaken and return to our original
subject," smilingly said the Doctor.
"Well, this has greatly worried me," replied Grub. "Hyp
notism is a scientific fact. Why has it been so fully sup
pressed? Undoubtedly for the same reason that magnetism
was suppressed. Somebody was afraid of their mysteries. I
am convinced that if one can suggest, by hypnotism, that
another unconsciously do an act, or pass into a somnolent
state, the same power may sit in a courtroom and equally
control prosecutor, judge and jury. That is the identical in
fluence that enthralls the congregation, listening in awe to
the pictures of heaven and hell-fire, word-painted by the
preacher.
"The catholics practice silence; the protestants indulge
in hilarity, shouting and rolling upon the floor.
"But, Doctor, the one central idea is : can a telepathic
or hypnotic power be cultivated to a degree to paralyze or
kill?"
"Why not?" asked the Doctor, and he arose and passed
into the laboratory.
CHAPTER XXIII
"Well, Doctor, I trust you have recovered from the shocks
of our last seance," said Grub.
"Never felt better," replied the Doctor.
"I find that our intention to rest up a bit on our Biblical
stuff is not practical," said Grub.
"What have you found now?" asked the Doctor.
"I have found evidence that, when Jesus Christ was
crucified he was dead, and that was the end of him. The
doctrine of the bodily resurrection was absolutely necessary
to save the christian scheme, notwithstanding the system itself
disputes it. Now listen to this," and Grub opened his Bible.
"Christ declares the is the 'son of man' (Matt. 8:20).
"We are told in Psalms 146:3, 4:
" 'Put not your faith in the son of man, in whom there
is no help.
" 'His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth ; in
that very day his thoughts perish.'
"This is most important, Doctor. It offers two essen
tial suggestions. The first coincides with our conclusion that
there is no individuality after death. All embodied conscious
ness ceases with the death of the body. When respiration
ceases the body dies.
"The other suggestion demonstrates that the Christ char
acter, or rather, Jesus, merely symbolizes the whole body
of mankind, subject to the same fate.
"Again they corroborate this :
"For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts ;
even one thing befalleth them ; as the one dieth, so dieth the
other; yea they have all one breath, so that man hath no
pre-eminence above a beast.
"
'All go unto one place, all are of the dust, and all turn
to dust again.
"
'Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward ; and
248
The Awakening 249
the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?'
(Ecc. 3).
"This very materially aids us in elimination.
"We may check off the Jesus Christ character.
"We may check off the spirit of man at death.
"We may check off the fabulous resurrection of the body.
"We may check off a personal God.
"We may check off both heaven and hell."
"Uh, huh. That confines our work to material, living
bodies. I agree to that," said the Doctor.
Continuing, Grub said :
"We may eliminate all thought of a religious character,
and continue to examine for evidences which corroborate our
logical deductions, the Bible, which we recognize as concealed
gnosticism.
"It reflects no credit upon the christian scheme that the
Bible contains much wisdom. It is the best evidence in all
the world of wilful confiscation by a designing priesthood.
"Let us see what the church attempts to teach to hu
manity pertaining to the spirit :
"They distinguish between the spirit and the soul. We
find a most suggestive reference to the soul which intimates
that soul and spirit are practically one.
.
"
'Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able
to kill the soul ; but rather fear him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell' (Matt. 10:28).
"The code idea of the soul based upon the above quota
tion is most interesting :
"
'That rational, spiritual and immortal substance in man,
which is the origin of our thoughts, desires, and reason
ings, and bears some resemblance of its divine maker.'
"Gen. 12:5 defines the soul as the whole person, 'both
soul and body.'
"Psalms 33:19: The 'life of man.'
"Gen. 1 :24 makes the soul the spirit of the brute.
"Lev. 17:10, 11 definitely refer to man as the soul, and
that the life of the flesh is in the blood.
250 The Awakening
"
'It is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul'
(Lev. 17:11).
"'No soul of you shall eat blood' (Lev. 17:12).
"In Hebrew, soul is naphish, meaning pleasure, he that
refreshes himself, he that respires. In the syriac it means
-
to multiply.
"Therefore it is the living individual who perpetuates
the race, and takes pleasure therein, and in any other physical
act which gives pleasure.
"This gives us the seat of life in the blood, and the seat
of physical pleasure in the tissues —under nervous control.
"The first Adam, which we found was the earth and its
vegetation, was also a 'living soul'-—of the earth earthy.
"The second Adam was made a quickening spirit—the
Lord from heaven —the respiratory animals.
"There is no great mystery here ; the soul applies to all
living matter upon -this earth; the spirit applies to the red-
blooded, respiratory life.
"The title of Lord is applied to man as the master over
the other animals (Gen. 1:28).
"The word Lord means the loaf-warden —dispenser of
loaves.
"As applied to man proper, the living physical body is
the soul.
"The internal mentation, which we call our subjective self,
is the spiritual man.
"Mentation is the essence, controlling and binding body,
soul and spirit together.
"'God is a spirit' (John 4:24). Spirit deified.
"
'It is the spirit that quickeneth' (Jno. 6:63). Life.
"The significance of this expression
is,
to put life into
matter, which engenders voluntary motion, and involves respi
ration.
"'Those who walk after the spirit' (Rom. 8:1).
"There are many misguiding sayings of this kind intended
to convey the idea that the guiding spirit
is
an external thing,
The Awakening 251
independent of the body, whereas the true significance is an
intelligence within us guiding our actions.
"This is what we call our subjective mind—the life pro
cesses within us, guided by an intelligent understanding. This
is the nearest approach to a personal God man will ever know.
"
'The kingdom of God cometh not by observation.
"The kingdom of God is within you' (Luke 17:20, 21).
"This distinctly has reference to the subjective mind.
"It is the fear that the subjective mentation of mankind
may be awakened to the truth, that causes christianity to point
to God and heaven as external things, which may only be
attained through the influence of the church, and through the
support of a ravenous, idle, nonproductive priesthood, always
yelling for themselves :
"
'If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great
thing if we reap your carnal things' (1 Cor. 9:11).
"But in Romans they preach :
"
'To be carnal minded is death.'
" 'Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. For
it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.
"
'So they that are in the flesh cannot please God.
"If Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin.
"
'If ye mortify the deeds of the body ye shall live'
(Romans 8).
"Can you beat that for logic?
"Nature provides us with bodies through which to ex
press the creative will, and we must abuse and mortify
physical expression. The purpose of this is clear. It is to
destroy nature-worship which is expressed by the gnostic sys
tem, to dignify fabulous, external doctrines, purloined from
other fake religions, or conjured out of the minds of a vicious
priesthood.
"Let us examine their idea of a guiding spirit.
"They distinguish between body, soul and spirit.
"
'The body without the spirit is dead' (James 2:26).
"This clearly defines the spirit as the life of the body.
"It is the life of the body which animates it. The first
252 The Awakening
cause of its every act. Therefore, to mortify the acts of the
body, is to oppose the spirit —the God principle.
"
'I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be
preserved unto the coming of Christ' (1 Thess. 5:23).
"This prayer distinguishes between spirit, soul and body.
Moreover, it calls upon an external God and Christ.
"'Christ is our life' (Col. 3:4).
'"God is a spirit' (John 4:24).
"'It is the spirit that quickeneth' (John 6:63).
"
'The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and
they are life' (John 6:63).
"Do you grasp the audacity of all this jargon, Doctor?
They are determined to introduce and preach an external being,
which is none other than the priest, to dictate to the God and
Christ which they admit are physical functions in our living
bodies.
"Do you now understand why Christ represents power
and authority? The whole christian process is to seize the
governing control over the whole world.
"The word Christ is not a proper name at all. It means
initiation into high office.
"Now we may accuse and convict, out of their own
mouths, the blatant ecclesiasts, who constructed the so-called
christian Bible from the gnostic wisdom and philosophy. They
have perpetrated wilful fraud to deceive mankind.
"In compiling the Bible from the original infallible manu
scripts, it was essential to make many changes. It is these
radical changes which convict them. They sought to estab
lish a personal, human God to represent the fake christian
God on earth, with all power, and all authority.
"The pope of Rome is called 'God on earth.'
"In the early chapters of Genesis, especially, are found
many deliberate alternations.
"The word 'and' is substituted for 'so.'
"
'Adam' for 'the Adam,' meaning earthy.
"
'God' for 'the Gods.'
The Awakening 253
"In the creation, where 'man' appears, it should be 'the
Adam.'
"These radical changes alter the whole sense of the text.
"Here is the evidence that the early makers of the Bible
attempted to adjust it to the gnostic philisophy.
"
'And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the earth before it grew' (Gen. 2:5).
"Thus a picture of each created thing in form preceded
its actual material formation.
"This is purely gnostic, and makes of man a creative
God, in the sense that he pre-visions those things which he
desires to make.
"Throughout the Bible many important alterations, sub
stitutions and interpolations are found.
"Therefore, along with God, Christ, and others, we may
check off Christianity as a thing of vivid imagination."
"I'm satisfied with that conclusion," said the Doctor.
"Yet, we may continue to use these names, God, Christ and
man, merely to identify certain tissues, organs, and their
functions, and to aid us to separate the grain from the Bib
lical chaff."
"Yes, we may do that without getting the knees of our
trousers soiled by kneeling to them, which performance is
but symbolic of the time when men were but lower animals,
groveling in the earth from which they came. It is a form
of 'mortifying the body'," replied Grub.
"But, Doctor, to interrupt the main subject for a mo
ment. I have had in mind to ask you how you happened
to name me Grub."
"Ha ! ha !" laughed the Doctor, and he led Grub to a
window, saying, "Do you see that depression over there in the
corner of the garden? Well, beneath its surface is a body
of clean, white sand, four feet deep. When you were a baby,
barely large enough to toddle, I made that spot for your
play ground. I gave you a little hoe, and a little shovel, and
threw you into the hole and told you to dig your way out.
One day I could not see you. Going to the hole I found you
254 The Awakening
up to your neck in sand, and still going. I had to dig you
out myself. I named you a grub-worm, and the name Grub
has been your nickname since."
They laughed heartily over this, but the Doctor suddenly
became serious, saying, "It is quite a coincidence that you
ask me this question at this particular time, because, I had
in mind a discussion of your suggestion of the larval char
acter of your primary creative waves, and this reveals a most
important truth. We are rapidly approaching a telepathic cor
respondence which enables us to read each the other's mind."
"Well," replied Grub, "we have already checked off telep
athy as a scientific truth."
"Let's have your drawing showing your waves as larvae,"
said the Doctor. Grub spread the illustration before the
Doctor :
The Doctor pondered the waves for some time; then he
said, impressively :
"Grub, you surely have revealed the source of life, as
applying to living matter upon the planet. It is questionable
if the ecclesiasts interpreted this with understanding.
"This planet, and its living products, reveal the creative
functions of these waves: a solid and fluid body, surrounded
by an atmosphere of nitrogen and oxygen.
"The other elements found in the atmosphere are in
cidental to the process of accumulation and growth. The
whole of the living production of this earth are reflective.
We must not be too hasty in eliminating vegetation from this
theory of planetary image and likeness. I will explain this
later.
"Each wave, or series of waves, attracted or reflected
to this planet, brings its quota of intelligent energy, and our
atmosphere is the reservoir from which we absorb our plane
tary maintenance.
The Awakening 255
"I do not originate the theory, but it is very plausible,
that the blue of the sky above us consists wholly of ozone,
as a store of oxygen for this planet. Ozone is a molecule of
three atoms of oxygen. If this is oxygen which has not com
pleted its creative function, we know that it still retains, in
a potential state, the carbon and hydrogen waves. There
fore ozone carries these elements as a potential store. This
is our direct source of life. The creation of physical, ma
terial forms is a reflected planetary influence, which suggests
forms which are images of its own parts.
"Now I will explain what I meant when I said we should
not eliminate the vegetation. There are many very instruc
tive images revealed in the vegetation, proving planetary re
flections.
"Look out there in the garden, Grub. You see the dan
delion, a splendid example. The yellow blossom images the
sun ; the globular mass of seed pods reveal the reflective moon,
white, and when this is cast off, there remains a dark, glob
ular image, the earth which produced
it.
"Nothing could better illustrate the reflective nature of
the moon.
"'The woman
is
of the man'
(1
Cor. 11:12).
"This figures the taking of the rib from the side of
sleeping Adam —taking the crescent moon from the side of
this planet.
"The scattering of the seeds, as we have seen in the
dandelion, figures the potential nature of the moon, receiv
ing reflections by the light of the other radiating bodies, and
reflecting these to the atmosphere of the earth.
"This one planet
is
a
revelation, imaging the sun, the
moon and the earth, and their separate function. It even goes
farther. Every living animal, in some degree, or suggestion,
at the time of its birth, has attracted to
it
an umbilical cord,
which
it
drops upon becoming independent of the body giving
it
birth and freedom. As long as the seed-pod of the dande
lion
is
intact
it
is
bound to the earth by a flesh colored stem,
256 The Awakening
but upon the pod being released, this stem no longer serves
a purpose.
"Grub, this illustration very closely allies vegetation with
the physical animals, and we quickly grasp the difference.
The vegetation is an external and physical reflection of plan
etary influences, whereas the organic animal is an internal
image of planetary life. This you have previously illustrated.
"It is no foolish idea that our moon affects our vegeta
tion, suggesting times for planting, etc., etc. It is from the
planetary light that vegetation receives its inspiration.
"It is by respiration that the animals receive their men
tation.
"My brief experiments with ozone, corroborates its blue
color. There is no doubt about our blue sky being due to the
presence of ozone. Moreover, ozone, in its normal state, ir
ritates the respiratory organs, demonstrating that it must pass
through some atmospheric digestive process before it is suit
able for assimilation. The atmosphere contains the quantity
of oxygen essential to sustain animal life. The large quan
tity of nitrogen in our atmosphere stands as a barrier be
tween the earth and the ozone body. External to that, doubt
less, is a similar body of nitrogen.
"The free nitrogen and oxygen in our atmosphere are,
undoubtedly, controlled by the influence of the sun and the
moon. The sun radiates into our atmosphere the oxygen
spirals, and the moon the nitrogen rings. By respiration we
draw these into our system there to complete their functions.
"See how simple this process
is,
Grub.
"The sun
is
the source of our life.
"The moon
is
the source of our mentation.
"The earth nourishes our physical body.
"This
is
why our atmosphere
is
a
mechanical mixture in
stead of
a
chemical compound. In the atmosphere the ends
of the spiral and the ring are not exposed in
a
manner for
direct union, hence they cannot chemically unite until they
enter the processes in the body.
"The spiral begets in the earth the habit of axial motion,
The Awakening 257
and the circle the habit of orbital motion, in order to keep
this condition alive, and bind each in its position in a pro
gressive system. It is a magnetic state.
"We may now approximate the source of our universal
wisdom. Axial motion breaks up direct contact by alternating
light and darkness.
"Orbital motion brings us in wide contact with multitudes
of other living worlds, which radiate their light to our moon
to be reflected to the atmosphere of this planet for the benefit
of its living beings.
"The oxygen spirals give us vital energy, and the nitro
gen rings impregnate our atmosphere with planetary wisdom.
We absorb these as our physical and mental nourishment along
with the material food supplied by the earth direct.
"The products of our digestive processes are cast out as
mental and physical excrements, which are greedily devoured
by the vegetation, both as its bread and breath.
"Why, Doctor, I am amazed at your wonderful knowl
edge of this living exchange," exclaimed Grub.
"Well, don't you see it yet?" asked the Doctor.
"See what?" said Grub.
"The mental food of both, the living creatures of this
earth, and the earth itself, for that matter, are your larvae-
laden waves," and the Doctor leaned back in his chair to
enjoy Grub's excitement ; then he continued :
"Don't you see the spirals are the living germs of your
oxygen waves, and the ring—the potential serpent with his
tail in his mouth—is the germ of your nitrogen wave in its
potential attitude.
"Now you can understand why all the ancient philosophies
pictured wisdom by the serpent in a circle, with his tail in
his mouth."
"Well! Well! Well!" exclaimed Grub. "Sure I see. The
earth being magnetic, is an absorbent body, and all its pro
ducts are absorbents."
"Yes, and the moon is a reflective body, and the source
of our planetary wisdom. It reflects planetary suggestions
258 The Awakening
which we absorb and develop into living pictures," said the
Doctor.
"I can understand, now, why the ecclesiasts adopted the
moon to symbolize the church," said Grub
"Yes, and that is why it is so determined to usurp the
schools, to enable it to pose as the medium of inspired learn
ing, and reflected education," the Doctor replied.
"Nature is our educator and guide, had humanity been
left alone to absorb all that nature intended we should absorb,
to fulfill our mission on earth. But don't lose sight of the
fact that the sun produces our physical bodies and the moon
endows them with mentation.
"That will be our next lesson."
CHAPTER XXIV
"Good morning, Doctor," was Grub's greeting.
"Top o' th' day tu yu," gaily responded the Doctor.
"I want to be a little rude, and beat you to the morn
ing's subject, Doctor," said Grub. "I want to suggest that
we have a review of our four elements, nitrogen, oxygen,
carbon and hydrogen, if that is agreeable to you."
"Say! Boy! What are you trying to pull on me? How
did you know I burned the midnight oil, last night, delving
into this identical subject? Look here." And the Doctor
placed upon the table a sheaf of notes, jotted down, in his
research on the four essential elements.
"What shall I do, laugh or weep? Now can you beat
that?" exclaimed Grub. "No, Doctor, I did not know you
had the same work in hand. I tell you, we are getting closer
to the secret every day, and while we are on this point, I
want to call your attention to something both interesting
and puzzling.
"For a long time I have observed a phenomenon worth
investigating. It intimates an invisible world about us seek
ing recognition through physical beings. If invisible until
it impinges upon some of our external sense organs,
it,
neces
sarily, has no manifesting body of its own, but
it
assumes
shape, or recognizable form, by contact with the living body
with an analytical sense and knowledge to recognize
it.
"It seems to corroborate the theory Cronus suggested,
when Sir Walter Raleigh manifested himself to us. The
psychic form can only manifest itself through the living
being, and the form thus manifested
is
but
a
mental picture,
aroused in memory.
"Let me now explain the phenomenon. At first
is
seems
very simple and unimportant.
"I am thinking or writing, and you, or someone else,
may ask
a
question, or speak
a
word, or name an object,
269
260 The Awakening
and I am almost frightened to discover that I had just written
the word or name, and previous to the external reminder.
Or, frequently I have spoken a name of a person or object
and, lo, it is visible before me in actual form, intimating a
medium ever ready to attract one's attention to the object
of his thoughts.
"Of course, I recognize this as a kind of telepathic force,
but how can such a sense be present in inanimate things?
Does the mind reach out into space and anticipate the object
before it is actually visible; or does the object reside in an
atmosphere of its own, and when our minds penetrate this
subtile aura the thing itself is made visible to us?"
"This is a tremendously important subject, Grub." softly
said the Doctor. "Your very mention of it stirs the imagina
tion to an active state. Why, the mere writing or speaking of
a word actually gives it a permanent mental form, and these
forms seek to attach themselves to embodied mentation, in
order that they may be put in circulation. Why, these are
living things, Grub. Prentiss Mulford sure did know what
he was saying when he said 'thoughts are things.' Every
idea, expressed in a spoken word, becomes a living germ of
unembodied thought in the great universal pabulum."
"Why, Doctor, that makes our atmosphere an invisible
spirit world," exclaimed Grub.
"Boy! We have broken through the wall. Why haven't
we grasped this before?" said the Doctor. "Just as sure as
we live, the fact that both our minds were bent on reviewing
our primary waves has revealed this, and the waves will dem
onstrate this. I will now proceed with my lecture with this
as an inspiration.
"We have trailed our four primary waves through four
spheres : the vibratory, gaseous, solid and fluid. Physical
manifestation is reactive, beginning in the waters and creep
ing onto the land and up into the air.
"There you are. We have peopled water, earth and air.
What about the vibratory world? It would be imbecilic to
say the vibratory sphere is not saturated with life."
The Awakening 261
"Huh! It looks as though we have convinced ourselves
there is a spirit world, whether we want to believe it or not,"
said Grub.
"Grub, this is a serious phase of our studies," softly re
plied the Doctor. "There can be no doubt about the four pri
mary elements, as demonstrated by our waves, being the four
states of being, and this makes nitrogenous life the fourth
estate, and this is life. As you have previously said, the sense
of being is a fourth dimension of material bodies."
"Well, what is the final object or purpose of our being
physical bodies here on earth?" asked Grub.
"It is to make spiritual forms which are stored in the
vibratory world. We see physical evidences all about us that
nature follows one trend.
"Why do the birds build nests? To perpetuate their kind.
"Why do men build houses? To protect their human
units.
"Why do men house their cattle?
"Why does every living thing, in some manner, sur
round its kind with protection?" and the Doctor looked ques-
tioningly at Grub.
"Why do we write books?
"To have a store of mental food.
"And all of this is clearly revealed by your series of
waves in eternal pursuit of each other as food. The heads
of your primary waves are attached to the tails of the pre
ceding wave attempting to devour it. The reverse is true in
the secondary series, which draws upon mother earth for
sustenance, each receding wave drawing upon the excrements
of the preceding for nourishment.
"The litter of pigs drawing upon the mother. The calf
drawing upon the cow, and all nature drawing upon the parent
body.
"And, now, the final touch reveals why the universal
wisdom is not drawn upon at will. It is the serpent in a circle
with its tail in its mouth, with no exposure for attraction.
This is a reserve attitude.
262 The Awakening
"We may know, by this, why the breath symbolizes the
holy-ghost. We inhale these nitrogenous rings from our at
mosphere, which at once declares the purpose of the stored,
universal wisdom. It is the spiritual food to develop the mind
in organic bodies, as the oxygen spirals of our atmosphere
are inhaled to develop the physical body. Our waves reveal
all this:
Life Flesh Muscle Bone Marrow
"These are the physical servants of the universal being.
"They, alone, can procure food for the nourishment of
our soul and body.
"It is these atmospheric rings which nourish our men
tation, and give us life."
"Then, after all, we cannot go beyond our own atmos
phere for our universal wisdom," said Grub.
"In a sense that is true. We are endowed with special
organs to absorb the mental and physical nourishment to
which we are entitled from nature, but the senses of vision
and hearing have a wider range, partaking especially of plan
etary knowledge. This earth is a magnetized body, therefore,
it does not reflect, it absorbs. Therefore it is a focus for
external forces. These forces reach the atmosphere of the
earth by these waves, which are absorbed by our external at
mosphere consisting of two photospheres, the outer body of
nitrogenous atoms, and the inner one of ozone. This planet,
and its moon, hold in a state of balance our direct atmos
phere which we breathe. In this manner we have an indirect
contact with both planetary and universal influences.
"We will examine our elements in the order of their posi
tion in your system of primary waves, which, in their origin,
may be named positive, universal waves.
"I first want to comment on the fact, that, the alleged
discovery of scientific truths largely fall within the period
The Awakening 263
subsequent to the eighteenth century. This intimates one of
two things, either scientific research and philosophy threw off
the despotic yoke of ecclesiasticism, or else the church was
attempting to unload gnosticism, as its own product, through its
jesuit schools, for the papacy did not surrender its usurped
'temporal power' over the nations of Europe until the middle
of the nineteenth centry (1870).
"We have already found that, a knowledge which seemed
to involve, at least, a well-defined idea of the principles of
later scientific discoveries is concealed in the Bible, evidenc
ing that gnosticism knew all these things before christianity
was born. The ecclesiasts personified the natural elements
and forces and concealed them in code until such time as
it felt secure in its political powers.
"From all that we have discovered, christianity is but a
horse-blanket, thrown over gnosticism, and that the usurpa-
tive ecclesia is the whole show, feasting off the struggling
producing masses which they have mastered. The church
following is but a militant guard, standing between them
and government interference, especially strong in the United
States because of the voting franchise.
"Let us keep this in mind as we awaken the gnostic wis
dom, in a close scrutiny of the four primary elements.
"I understand your theory, that the electron,
is a globule containing the original forces which manifest
in the primary, creative waives.
"We may truly name this the original egg of nature, of
which we have many material imitations. For instances : the
mass of human brain-cells ; the lung-structures ; the masses of
fishes' eggs, and frogs' eggs ; clusters of grapes, with their
creeping, serpent-like .vines, and endless others.
"Of necessity, we shall use the accepted technical names
and terms given to the elements by the modern science.
"Nitrogen, symbol N, atomic weight 14, which signifies
14 times the atomic weight of hydrogen 1, which is the meas
urer of atomic weights of elements.
264 The Awakening
"Keep in mind the previous conclusions regarding the
symbolizing of these elements. You will recall that the moon
symbolizes woman, meaning the church. Mary figures the
church and Mary is derived from mer, meaning the sea.
"A significant thing
is,
in the code, the moon means the
measurer.
"We see the necessity for God's having made two fe
males in making Adam. The first female
is
the water at
tached to the earth; the second was the woman—rib, taken
out of the side of Adam —the moon cast off the side of the
planet. The crescent moon suggested the rib story.
"The moon
is
appropriated as the church.
"Originally, nitrogen was named azote, which comes
near to tangling up the code in the Bible.
"One of Christ's ancestors was Azor, meaning help or
assistance. The church assists the ecclesia. Azotus
is
the
Greek form of Ashdod. Azotus means
a
stronghold.
"The church
is
the stronghold of ecclesiasticism, which
makes the change from Ashdod to Azotus,
a
serious reflec
tion, for Ashdod means pillage, theft, confiscation.
"The wise element back of the church did not relish
the name Azote given to nitrogen by the alleged French dis
coverer, Lavoisier, because Azote means no-life —because ni
trogen
is
incapable of sustaining life in physical bodies, in
fact,
is
opposed to living material bodies, setting up decompo
sition in them.
"Lavoisier was educated at the College
of
Mazarin,
founded by one Jules Mazarin (Mazarini)
a
jesuit, from
the Jesuit College at Rome.
"For no particular reason, Lavoisier, the father and
founder of modern chemistry, was guillotined, at Paris, and
Azote became nitrogen, because the original name was dan
gerous to the 'Mazarin Bible.'
"See how remarkably these facts all fit together. Keep
these apparently trivial things in mind, Grub. Remember,
we have previously decided that the seat of organic life
is
not in the brain, the brain being the seat of reflected menta
The Awakening 265
tion. It is the cold, lifeless moon which symbolizes the
brain, while the sun symbolizes the heart.
"Nitrogen is colorless, therefore it cannot appeal to the
external sense of vision.
"It is tasteless, therefore it cannot appeal to the sense
of appetite, or a desire for material food.
"It is odorless, therefore, it cannot awaken the external
sense of smell.
"It is not inflammable, therefore it cannot support com
bustion, or generate heat.
"It is lighter than air, therefore, its normal position,
en masse, is above the normal atmosphere, although the at
mosphere consists of almost four-fifths of nitrogen, the other
fifth being oxygen.
"But, I do not believe the atmospheric nitrogen is iden
tical with the original universal element, but is a reflected
form—a potential ring.
"Now we may know why nitrogen is not a sustainer of
physical life. It not only does not sustain life, but it is an
essential agent of decay and decomposition of bodies. While
it is an essential element of nourishment of brain, and nervous
tissues, it is a ravenous decomposer of animal and vegetable
tissues.
"This vindicates our previous deductions, Grub. The
seat of organic life is not in the medullary matter of the
brain and nerves; that is the only logical seat of the God
principle, therefore, God is more concerned with physical death
than he is with organic life, and the church so teaches."
"Wait a moment, Doctor," and Grub opened his Bible.
"We will find the Bible concealing this very wisdom.
"In condemning wisdom, as symbolized by the serpent,
God said:
"
'And I will put enmity between thee and the woman'
(Gen. 3:15).
Woman is the church. Wisdom is the serpent.
"
'Know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity
266 The Awakening
with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world
is the enemy of God' (James 4:4).
"The spirit of gnostic wisdom was given a material
body, the Bible, then forbidden to the world at large.
"Now, Doctor, this actually corroborates this chemical
revelation, proving it was no product of modern chemical
research. It was secretly revealed by the gnostic wisdom,
and here is the final evidence :
"The serpent is a symbol of the gnostic wisdom.
"The woman means the city or body politic.
"The antichristian civil governments (Rev. 17:3).
"Weakling governors (Isa. 3:12).
" 'And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased'
(Luke 23:12).
"This is the same treatment given the serpent.
" 'The carnal mind is enmity gainst God ; for it is not
subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be' (Romans
8:7).
"The word 'indeed' here reveals the superficial vocabula-
tion of a writer trying to impress his stuff.
"'To be carnal minded is death' (Rom. 8:6).
"Nevertheless, they reach out for the carnal stuff with
their spiritual stuff.
"God does not create or foster the physical manifesta
tions ; he rather antagonizes and destroys them, because, with
the liberty of voluntary motion in a material body, a lesion
occurs between the spiritual and physical process.
'"God is a spirit' (John 4:24).
"Man is material.
"'God is not a man, neither the son of man' (Num.
23:19).
'"Moses was a man' (Ex. 11:3).
"'Christ was a man' (1 Tim. 2:5). 'And the son of
man' (Matt. 8:20).
"Moses and Christ died, but God lived.
"When man assumes a state of independence, God is
The Awakening 267
angered and regrets having brought him into being, and he
destroys him.
"
Tt repented the Lord that he had made man on the
earth.
"
'And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have
created from the face of the earth' (Gen. 6:6, 7).
"Let us examine this cunning intrigue for its secret sig
nificance.
"Moses symbolizes the civil law; this must die.
"Christ means authority; civil authority must be cruci
fied. But, the resurrection of Christ, and his ascension into
heaven symbolizes the destruction of civil governments, and
the permanent usurpation of all authority by the ecclesia.
"This reveals that man did antagonize the godly will,
and that God destroyed him for his independent attitude, by
withdrawing his divine favor.
"Heaven means the ecclesiastical government.
"Face means divine favours of God, also his wrath.
"Which appeals to you strongest, the godly or the human
aspect of this playful romance?
"God, in his vicious anger kills man, who interferes with
his plans, for good and all, but he resurrects his Christ man
to live forever.
"
'Fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body
in hell' (Matt. 10:28). Hell means the grave.
"Do you see the power of fear in ruling the people ? This
ecclesiastic thing has been so successful in its rule of fear,
civil governments are hopelessly committed to the same policy.
"Respect for the law is not solicited; fear for the law
is ruthlessly enforced.
"
'And deliver them who through fear of death were all
their lifetime subject to bondage' (Heb. 2:15).
"This makes all imperial governments a form of enmity
towards the unorganized masses. Mankind is but a plaything
for self-constituted human gods, whose only power is fear,
force of arms, and cultivated ignorance.
268 The Awakening
"Civilization, under these abnormal conditions, is a tre
mendous failure.
"Why ! ! ! In two thousand years since the introduc
tion of christianity, should humanity be writhing under the
tortures of ignorance, crime, imbecility and poverty?
"I challenge civil governments, and the church, to answer
this vital question. To place the blame upon the people is to
condemn national life."
"Well, well, Grub, open a night school. I want to attend
it and learn to so quickly grasp these truths," said the Doctor.
"I will prove it to you now," said Grub.
"God is God until he reaches the spiral, that is the earth.
The earth, we know, is a magnetic body, and rejects the pri
mary nitrogen wave which withdraws to the highest posi
tion or photosphere surrounding the earth. This is revealed
in the human body. 'God manifests in the flesh,' the outer
tissues of the structure. All of the primary elements manifest
in material bodies —oxygen in the muscles, carbon in the
bones, hydrogen in the marrow. 'To be carnal is enmity
against God.'
"Gemeny Christimus ! Grub. Stop ! You have solved the
problem. I grasp the truth," excitedly exclaimed the Doctor.
"You will remember I expressed a belief that the nitro
gen of our atmosphere differed from the original, direct,
primary wave.
"The foxy ecclesiasts make the moon the female in our
immediate system, and adopt her to symbolize the church.
We found the reactive nitrogen wave assumed a circle, or
ring, in our atmosphere, and that is the symbol of eternal
life and wisdom. Great gumbo ! Do you see what that means?
"
'My father and I are one.'
"This nitrogen wave reflected from the moon yields up
the potential oxygen and itself assumes the form of a circle
or ring, and thus God sends his only begotten sun to the
earth —the spiral.
"This accounts for there being four of these nitrogen
The Awakening 269
atoms in our atmosphere to one of oxygen—the earth absorbs
the oxygen in that proportion."
"Ha! Wait a moment, Doctor. I can put the finishing
touch on this," said Grub.
"The moon symbolizes the church on earth. The church
is Mary, the mother of Jesus. The process which you have
just described is the origin of the fabulous story of Mary
carrying Jesus into Egypt, oppression and misery.
"The moon is a cold, reflective body. It rejects the direct
ray from the sun, the God-father, and this is why Mary means
rebellion.
"This romantic revelation is personified on earth by the
ecclesiasts, and they have actually attempted to mould human
ity into a living reproduction of planetary processes. This is
the figurative manifestation of God in the flesh—in living mat
ter. Moreover, God sends his only begotten son to earth
to be crucified. This is symbolized by the muscular tissues
of the body hanging upon the human tree, the skeleton. He
is hanged at Mount Calvary. Calvary means the human skull.
"Now, Doctor, we know christianity is an absolute fake,
conceived in the imaginative minds of evil men. It is a deliber
ate assault upon nature and mankind.
"The atmosphere symbolizes the church and state, united
in one cause, but independent of each other, the church pre
dominating in proportion to the nitrogen and oxygen in our
atmosphere.
"God made two great lights ; the greater light to rule the
day, and the lesser light to rule the night.
"The sun is the ecclesia, which word means government.
"The moon is the church, an assembly, organization.
"The sun rules the day and visible knowledge.
"The moon rules the night and controls ignorance.
"Day means, a prophetic year, a gospel period.
"Night means adversity, affliction, ignorance.
"Gospel means a good story.
"The nitrogen atom in our atmosphere is a reflected atom,
being cast back by the moon.
270 The Awakening
"The oxygen atom is a radiated atom, being radiated from
the sun.
"Both these atoms, in the primitive projection, were waves.
"We are thus reminded that reaction is equal to action.
"The sun represents fire.
"The moon represents moisture and cold.
"These combine and become visible in our atmosphere
as clouds and lightning.
"
'There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and
upon the earth ; distress of nations with perplexity.
"Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after
those things which are coming on the earth; for the powers
of heaven shall be shaken.
" 'And then shall they see the son of man coming in a
cloud with power and great glory' (Luke 21).
"Now if these dreadful things are not due to the influ
ence of the sun and moon, why are they mentioned.
"Why do they name Christ the 'son of man,' in this par
ticular instance?
"Heaven means ecclesiastical government.
"Cloud means affliction.
"Ezekiel is named the 'son of man' eighty-nine times.
"Ezekiel means the strength of God.
.."Christ is named the 'son of man' eighty times.
"Christ means official authority of God.
"Now which is coming in this particular cloud, Ezekiel
or Christ?
"Both, for they are one and the same.
"Authority, Ezekiel, represents the civil authority, and
Christ, the authority of the ecclesia.
"Hence Ezekiel does not participate in the christian dis
pensation.
"In what form do they manifest?
"Lightning symbolizes fire and vengeance.
"Fire means judgments.
"They cannot manifest in fire, for:
'"God is a consuming fire' (Heb. 12:29).
The Awakening 271
"Jesus declared:
"
T judge no man' (John 8:15).
"'My kingdom is not of this world' (John 18:36).
"'I came not to judge the world' (John 12:42).
"Ezekiel was not a judge, he was a prophet.
"Therefore they must manifest in judgments and execu
tions, and this means man-made civil laws. There is nothing
divine or godly in the system. Nevertheless, the church has
instilled into civil government that mawkish sentiment which
deprives all law of decent respect, and fills mankind with
fear and resentment. This is the spirit which inspires rebel
lion, and involves mankind in oppression, misery and tribu
lations.
"Christianity is based on rebellion.
"Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ, means rebellion.
"Jesus takes up his residence in Galilee, meaning revo
lution.
"Christ secretly preached to his disciples:
"
T am come to send fire on the earth.
"'Suppose ye I am, come to give peace on earth? I tell
you nay ; but rather division.
"
'The father shall be divided against the son, and the
son against the, father; the mother against the daughter, and
the daughter against the mother' (Luke 12).
"Right in the beginning of the new testament, we are
warned by Jesus Christ:
"
'Think not that I am come to send peace on earth ; I
came not to send peace, but a sword.
"
'A man's foes shall be they of his own household' (Matt.
10:34, 35, 36).
"Thus christianity declared its purpose to ruthlessly vio
late the most sacred human ties, to establish its own vicious
authority, based upon the three cardinal sins preached by
itself —envy, hatred and malice.
"But there is an element here which we must not over
look. Christ (
is allegedly proclaiming these vicious purposes
in the new testament.
272 The Awakening
"These so-called gospels had no existence at the time it
is alleged he was preaching. . They did not exist until three
hundred years afterward. Hence, in the same verse we find
Christ speaking as of the present and of the past —'come,'
'came' (Matt. 10:34).
"The ecclesiasts confiscated and concealed the traditional
gnostic wisdom as a store of scientific knowledge to be meas
ured out by the church as a mediator, and cast into the at
mosphere of mankind, as the moon supplies the nitrogenous
rings to our earthy atmosphere.
"Christ in this system symbolizes the oxygen atom, hence :
"'Christ is our life' (Col. 3:4).
"
'Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God'
(1 Cor. 1:24).
" 'For there is one God and one mediator between God
and man, the man Christ Jesus' (1 Tim. 2:5).
"The elimination of Jesus Christ explodes the whole chris
tian scheme.
"This definitely exposes the whole ecclesiastical scheme
as the secreted wisdom of the gnostics, deliberately stolen
from humanity at large by evil-minded men, having no higher
motive but their own devilish schemes for plunder and self-
aggrandizement. The condition of the world, today, clearly
reveals this."
"Well, Grub," said the Doctor, "we surely have identi
fied the only elements, in the knowledge of man, which may
be named the christian God and Christ, and these are nitro
gen and oxygen. This renders it easy to recognize man and
woman as the earth and the sea, the manifested carbon and
hydrogen. It is wholly a chemical proposition.
"Mary, the mother of Jesus, is derived from mer, the
sea.
"No wonder John hesitated to baptize Jesus with water,
but John's baptism meant submersion in the waters, and waters
mean a multitude of people. Christ was submerged in hu
manity.
"Christ also was baptized with the holy-ghost, to breathe,
The Awakening 273
which carried nitrogen and oxygen into the lungs. This is the
nature of the christian 'inspiration,' and gives us a clue to
follow. We may trace the path back to the universal mind,
or pabulum.
"But, we must rest, Grub. We wandered far away from
our original intent to review our four elements, but they were
very much involved nevertheless. We will continue the same
theme as our lecture for tomorrow."
CHAPTER XXV
"I will attempt to extend our examination of our four
primary elements, Grub, taking up the theme where we left it
yesterday," said the Doctor.
"Let us scrutinize oxygen as the symbol of Christ, which
will not be difficult. We know that oxygen is born out of
the nitrogen wave in the original positive series. We have
identified the God principle as nitrogen. This clears up the
idea of Christ being the 'son of God.' Moreover, this explains
why Jesus insisted upon John's baptizing him with water.
By this process Jesus is made also the 'son of man.'
"See how simple this is. We saw the original set of
waves culminate in the hydrogen spiral—-earth and water. Or
ganic life pushed out a secondary, and reactive, set of waves,
in which the oxygen wave appears, born out of the carbon
wave. This illustrated how Christ is also the 'son of man.'
As a positive element he is the 'son of God' ; as a negative
element he is the 'son of man.' Is this clear?"
"I say so. Let's diagram it," said Grub.
God Christ Man Woman Man Christ God
"This explains why the original man is not of the woman,
but the woman of the man (1 Cor. 11:8)."
"Yes, we've found it," exclaimed the Doctor.
"We may locate the original seat of potential wisdom in
the electron, a globule, and the manifestation of wisdom into
knowledge, in the circle at the end of the reactive set of
waves, the nitrogenous ring in our atmosphere. God is made
to say:
'"I am the beginning and the end' (Rev. 1:8).
"You may also grasp why the woman, Mary, symbolizes
the church—the moon, the mediator, measurer. Moreover,
274
The Awakening 275
for God to manifest in the flesh he must pass through all
these creative phases, which makes man in his image and
likeness. This is not a favor, it is a Godly necessity.
"'God is all and in all' (1 Cor. 15:28).
"Hydrogen is logically the measurer. It is the standard
measurer of the atomic weights of the other elements.
"Nitrogen 14, oxygen 16, carbon 12, hydrogen 1.
"Now, Grub, I have never seen in chemistry any sem
blance of your wave theory, but we frequently find in the
Bible sly references to it as worms and serpents. Therefore,
I am convinced there is connivance between the ecclesiasts
and the scientists of the eighteenth century. These so-called
philosophers were all jesuits. They were strong at that time,
and they could not study the sciences except in cathOlic-
jesuit institutions. You remember Duncker was a jesuit,
noted as a mathematician. Yet his most important work was
coining history for the church.
"I call your attention, also, to the fact that all your
primary waves merge into the hydrogen spiral. Do you see
why it was selected to symbolize the universal church? —all
in one. Catholic means all, universal, focused in one body.
It culminates in the orbital ring representing the moon prin
ciple.
"It is a suggestive thing that all the big colleges of learn
ing in the United States are called universities.
"Oxygen, like nitrogen, does not appeal to vision, taste
or smell, but it is especially essential to respiration, and
physical life. Nitrogen is equally essential to death and dis
integration of bodies.
"That God had the power to kill all is declared in
Gen. 6:7.
"It was the oxygen which God breathed into carbon which
'made man a living soul.'
"Oxygen is necessary to germination.
"It is upon its dual nature that the death and resur
rection of Christ is predicated. The living fruit of every
system is the symbol of Christ. The fruit is raised up, ripens,
276 The Awakening
falls to the earth, its body decays, and its spirit rises up as
a new living tree. This is the true resurrection from the
dead.
"We are not surprised to learn that oxygen is the most
magnetic of all the gases, and the most abundant of all sub
stances, constituting one-third of the solid parts of the earth,
nine-tenths of the water and about one-fifth of the atmos
phere. Hence the earth is Christ's realm, and the atmos
phere is God's.
"It is apparent that nitrogen and oxygen are not en
dowed with the sense of selectivity of material things, but are
arbitrary creative forces. This accounts for their eternal ex
ploitation of arbitrary authority. It is true that oxygen is
essential to respiratory life. Hence Oxygen is selected to
represent the abstract Christ character, and it is amazingly
true that it fulfills the idea, although we know the fabulous
character of all the Bible names.
"Some one was familiar with something resembling this
wave theory, to have so accurately adjusted their symbolisms
to these atomic triads, dyads, etc., etc.
"We may now approach the carbon wave with awe, know
ing that he is carrying both God and Christ, as well as affec
tionately embracing woman.
"
'Christ is our life' (Col. 3:4).
"'God manifests in the flesh' (1 Tim. 3:16).
"The natural condition of carbon is solid, hence it is
selected to symbolize the earth, man, and the bones. Its purest
form is the diamond, the hardest of all substances.
"'The chief corner stone, elect, precious' (1 Peter 2:6).
"Who selected the name Adam —ant for this element,
if they had no knowledge of the association?
"Why should Adam resemble a diamond any more than
eve, if they did not know he symbolized the solid earth?
"As a block of ice, Eve could make earthy old Adam
look like a lump of coal. Although Eve means life, she is
symbolized by the water.
"Carbon is a non-conductor of electricity. It is the most
The Awakening 277
characteristic constituent of all vegetable and animal matters.
Therefore, if it is Adam in man, it is also Adam in all other
living matter, hence the first Adam was the earth and the
vegetation attached to it. Naturally, the second Adam is the
respiratory animals, drawing the oxygen from heaven which
makes the physical body the temple of the holy-ghost (1 Cor.
6:19).
"
'Jesus is the Lord but by the holy-ghost' (1 Cor. 12:3).
"The holy-ghost is the breath.
"Only vanity makes men christs above other animal kinds.
This explains why ecclesiasticism condemns evolution.
"The spiritual life is the trend of life running through
the whole creative system, symbolized by the heart and circu
lation (Col. 3:4).
"The ecclesiasts confess there is no spiritual difference
between man and beast. Both are alike in this sense (Ecc. 3).
"But the positive evidence that they have a knowledge
of the consecutive trend and development of the life waves,
is in the declaration that:
"
'God is the head of Christ, Christ is the head of man,
and man is the head of woman' (1 Cor. 11:3).
God Christ Man Woman
"The peculiar arrangement of the verse, as in the Bible,
is a deliberate attempt to conceal the continuity of waves.
"The eternal life is the universal mentation, permeating
all, and is symbolized by the brain and nervous system.
"Hydrogen is the female principle.
"That it is a principle without the sense of selectivity
is shown by the fact that it does not form direct contact with
vision, taste or smell.
"It is inflammable when heated in air, or in oxygen, burn
ing into hydrogen-oxide, which is water (OH2). Hydrogen
is the lightest of all gases, hence it is the measurer of atomic
278 The Awakening
weights of elements. Therefore the following is a premedi
tated divergence from nature.
"
'Suffer not a woman to teach' (1 Tim. 2:12).
"The purpose and intent of this is clear. Hydrogen,
which is the symbol of woman, or the female principle, means
water (Hydor).
"In the ecclesiastical code water means the multitude of
people. The people must not be permitted to teach their own
children.
"These readjustments of natural elements to meet the
symbolized ecclesiastic system are pitifully simple.
"'Woman shall not usurp authority over men' (1 Tim.
2:12).
'"For Adam was first formed, then Eve' (1 Tim. 2:13).
"In the primary series of waves, the carbon wave pre
cedes the hydrogen spiral. Thus Adam precedes Eve. This
definitely reveals that this primary series of waves are the
subject of these regulations. Christ, to be the son of Mary,
and the 'son of man,' is born out of woman.
"This clearly distinguishes between the two series of
waves. We may safely name the primitive as spiritual, and
the secondary as material.
"It is a piece of damned impudence for the priesthood
to set itself up as the representative of the spiritual, and
class all other men as 'of the earth earthy,' simply by coding
the hydrogen spiral as symbolizing women, Mary, and the
church.
"Mary is mer, meaning the sea.
"Ad is the male principle, am is the female deity.
"The physical structures explain this. It was the basis
of the ancient Phallic-worship, freely plagiarized by the chris
tian system.
"Moreover, this reveals the antiquity of the traditional
gnosticism. It was to confiscate gnosticism that christianity
was established.
"Lavosier was unfortunate in selecting names for the
elements which he allegedly discovered. He named nitrogen
The Awakening 279
azote, meaning no life, which was an insult to ecclesiasti-
cism, because it had selected nitrogen to represent the invis
ible God.
"He named his other important discovery hydrogen, from
hydor, meaning water. Now, hydrogen is not water, but it
is essential to produce water. Hence, technically, woman is
born before man in the secondary or material series of waves.
"Lavoisier was ruthlessly guillotined for his errors—not
in naming his discoveries, but for exposing the ecclesia, as a
fraud and false-pretense.
"Now, Grub, we have identified and assembled all the
elements primarily involved in the ecclesiastic scheme, and
our own elemental wave theory. These we must study to a
finish."
"I have followed you closely, Doctor, and I have at
tempted to summarize these revelations into visible, tangible
things which we may survey in a collective perspective, to
see if there is a manifest resemblance between the bodies in
apparently separated systems." And Grub spread out his notes.
"I believe we should now attempt to eliminate all this
christian tommy-rot about heaven, hell, God, Christ, etc., etc.
There is nothing morally instructive about it. Whereas, it at
tempts to lead human thought and investigation away from
the most vital things in nature.
"It is only by deductive reasoning that we may go be
yond our own planet to come in contact with universal and
planetary wisdom. The christians are as viciously opposed
to the development of reason, as they are to the teaching of
evolution. Notwithstanding evolution is the sole foundation
of their own sinister enterprise, with human ignorance as
its superstructure.
"The planetary structure is our greater being, born out
of eternal space. The earth, a unit in that greater being,
is a collective product of this planetary system, a well-defined
organ of the greater body.
"The organic life upon our planet is the image and like
280 The Awakening
ness of our system reflected in visible and intelligible mani
festations.
"Vanity has no place of superiority in the creative scheme,
therefore man is not an overlord simply because he is the
highest evoluted creature on this earth in point of reason.
Had he been permitted to develop unhindered he would have
stood amazingly above his present status. But, stunted as
he
is,
many lower animals have an instinct superior to the
reasoning powers of man. For this abominable condition we
may thank christianity, with its debasing sob-stuff.
"Man was designed by nature to become
a
synopsis of
the creative scheme, and thus he was to be the revelation.
An anaylsis of man reveals every creative act with its re
sultant product, and that product reveals the purpose of its
creation.
"Permeating this whole system
is
a
potential, impalpable,
formless, universal substance, endowed with intelligent forces,
which may be named the universal spirit. These primary
forces have an inherent power to endow the potential mass
with creative cells, which are the seeds for greater created
beings which are cultivated for the fruits they yield.
"Every organized system in nature cultivates and pro
tects that upon which
it
depends for nourishment, support,
and reproduction.
"Absolute vacuum
is
an essential part of the system. The
original electron, out of which are born the four primary
elements which we have been studying,
is
a
vacuum, sur
rounded by
a
film of prime universal substance. This at
once reveals the two basic forces in nature, external pres
sure and internal resistance. These two primitive powers beget
all other creative forces. We may at once recognize the so-
called 'God and Christ as one' idea, by the release of these
two forces united as positive and negative —our primary waves
are positive, and our secondary waves are negative —hence,
as
a
balanced cell, they become
a
magnetic molecule. This
is
why this earth of ours
is
a
magnetized body.
The Awakening 281
"Motions, contacts, conflicts, desire, attraction, repul
sion, all become creative forces.
"Intelligence, in living bodies, develops in proportion to
the experiences of contact, and environment.
"Our own organic life upon this earth reveals a mental
evolution accompanying physical progression. Voluntary mo
tion in bodies begets the sense of selectivity, causing living
bodies to select the line of least resistance to a goal.
"All of these creative experiences form an intelligent,
traditional record, available to beings having the power of in
terpretation. Such a tradition is the basis of gnosticism.
"It is highly possible that there was an era in the life
of this planet when every living creature had an instinctive
understanding of all creative knowledge up to the highest point
of its development.
"Tradition is the inherited wisdom.
"I am equally convinced that this natural evolution
towards a universal thought in common was wilfully sup
pressed, that the undeveloped class might not acquire
it.
"The alleged deluge in the Bible merely means the sub
mersion of the greater humanity in ignorance and mental
darkness."
"Well, Grub, that
is
quite an instructive lecture, and ma
terial for our future lectures," said the Doctor, and the seance
was closed.
"I don't seem to find an opening to exhibit crude pic
tures
I
have automatically made which have
a
bearing upon
our subject," said Grub.
"We shall try to find one before we are through," replied
the Doctor.
CHAPTER XXVI
Grub found the Doctor walking the library floor, with
his hands behind his back, as though deeply absorbed in
thought. Upon seeing Grub he turned quickly, saying:
"I'm glad you came in, Grub. I have an all-absorbing
subject to discuss with you."
"I'm listening with both hands," replied Grub, and they
took seats at the table.
"Well," began the Doctor, "you said something yesterday
which caused me to do a lot of thinking last night. You were
wondering why Cronus seemed to make it his specialty to lead
us into a discussion of ecclesiasticism and civil governments.
I am convinced that Cronus has not guided us to the sub
jects which we have had under discussion.
"We are not giving sufficient thought to the psychic char
acter of our trance conditions at the time they occur.
"It is a species of reaction which is controlling our minds
at the time, and there is a logical reason for our being guided
towards those things which reveal the great errors in the
development of human thought and action.
"If it is true that the ecclesiastic exploitation, and its
collateral forces, are opposing the original intent of nature
in the development of mankind, and leading it away from its
normal course, it is logical to believe that nature, in its own
defense, would pursue a course to counteract such human
aberration from truth and moral rectitude.
"Nature cannot err, but the freedom, and personal lib
erty, with which nature has endowed mankind, can be abused,
but with absolute certainty of reactive punishment. It is wholly
a human problem, and humanity at large suffers the con
sequences of vicious defiance of natural laws. The christian
schemers stress rebellion and revolution, born of oppression
and irritation.
"Therefore, nature's forces are manifested in human ac
282
The Awakening 283
tion and reaction. Nature depends upon the same resources
for correction, as are practiced in bringing about oppressive
conditions — human force ; human resentment, vengeance
against those who have forced mental and physical distress
upon the greater body.
"Action must necessarily precede reaction, as cause pre
cedes effect. Hence the original action must complete its
course as measured by your primordial waves, before reac
tion can occur. Nevertheless, nature has wisely provided
against eternal stress. The tendency for the straight line
of carbon to assume a curvilinear course, with a tendency
to drop into a conservative and recuperative spiral, is the
warning that the end of coercion is near.
"Carbon symbolizes the coercive rod of authority.
"Now follow me closely. Up to the time of the ecclesi
astical assault upon gnosticism, the bent of humanity was
towards natural guidance, along lines which would develop and
perfect the human mentation, which was the goal of evolu
tion. Gnosticism proves this. With the interference, on the
part of ecclesiasticism, and the introduction of the christian
false-pretense, to lead the masses of people away from na
ture's guidance, and into a wilderness of inspired evils, a
reaction was set up, and the state of conservative balance
into which gnosticism was guiding humanity, was submerged,
with traditional wisdom, in imbecilic ignorance. And since
that time humanity has been groping in darkness.
"Never before, in the history of the world, has mankind
been so enmeshed in crime, insanity, poverty, and all the
kindred evils accompanying these, as it now
is,
under the
christian dispensation.
"Nature had led the world near to
a
state of understand
ing, when
a
herd of human beasts—living in caves to dem
onstrate their disapproval of general and widespread intelli
gence, and to perfect
a
system of reaction—grinned out upon
humanity being led backward, as symbolized by the fabulous
exodus of Israel out of Egypt and into
a
wilderness of sin.
This was
a
deliberate and wilful debasement of mankind in
284 The Awakening
sin, for the purpose of commercializing crime coined by statu
tory laws.
"Exodus means the establishment of legislative powers.
The same under which the present generation of humanity
are rotting today.
"Grub, your automatic writings demonstrate beyond dis
cussion, that gnosticism is a living thing. It symbolizes human
thought, and deductive reasoning.
"Gnosis means to know, by natural instinct, those things
which encourage the progress of nature towards the perfec
tion of her creations along lines of logical thought and reason.
"The early, so-called, manastics were properly named
monks, for the root word of both monk and monkey is mon.
They chose to abandon the clean, decent environments of
social progress, and crawl into vermin-infested holes in the
earth which they called caves. Even Jesus was allegedly born
in a cave.
"What merit is there in such vulgarities?"
"These monks knew the gnostic teachings, and they be
gan a reactive process, which led humanity into absolute ig
norance, while laying the foundation for a well defined polit
ical exploitation, under a false-pretense of religion, to en
slave humanity.
"Gnosis means to know, knowledge.
"Faith means to believe, ignorance.
"It was essential to break up the tendency of human men
tation toward a universal union, which would have obviated
the necessity for organized human governments."
"Just a moment, Doctor," interrupted Grub. "That is a
startling suggestion. Do you mean to say that the original
intention of nature eliminated organized governments?"
"Undoubtedly," replied the Doctor. "I will make that
clear farther along. I desire to impress now, that the original
purpose of the christian organization was a dastardly con
spiracy against nature and humanity.
"The word ecclesia reveals this:
The Awakening 285
"For what other purpose was this name plagiarized from
the Greek?
"Ecclesia signifies a legislative body, and it carries with
it that contemptuous theory that war is essential to main
tain peace.
"The christian plotters chose the ancient legislative name
of Athens, the ecclesia, because of its drastic character.
"Here is where we observe the law of reaction.
"It figuratively requires but the last straw to break the
camel's back.
"Even the ignorant ass will lie down in the road under
an excessive burden.
"And, so, humanity revolts, when church or state per
secution goes beyond the limit of human endurance.
"The curse of the whole of Greece fell upon the ecclesia
of Athens, and revolution finished the work.
"Jesus took refuge in Galilee—revolution.
"France broke, under the accursed union of church and
state, and turned to revolution.
"Russia took the Roman catholic church by the scuff
of the neck and showed it the shortest way out by revo
lution.
"Germany and many others have turned to revolution as
a remedy for government ills.
"Spain, right now, is torn by revolution, and has prac
tically wiped out the catholic churches, as Spanish Mexico
has done.
"If the church is not involved, how does it occur that
the savage mobs destroy them? Where the church
is,
there
is
revolution.
"There has never been an important war, or revolution,
that the church has not been accused and found guilty of
being lined up against the people.
"What should the world expect, when Jesus Christ de
clares
:
"
'Think not that
I
am come to send peace on earth
;
I
came not to send peace, but
a
sword' (Matt. 10:34).
286 The Awakening
"And the church declares :
'"Wars must be' (Matt. 24:6).
"That these things are secretly for the destruction of
the common, burdensome herd of people may not be disputed.
The fear of revolution is the cause of wars. With every
visible preparation for war, conspicuous public officials begin
to talk about peace.
"And now, the crowning suggestion of official crime
against this nation raises its head in our own high places,
in the form of a suggestion that this government confiscate
all the property of all the people, in the event of another war.
"This is exactly what the ecclesia of Athens did.
"Can you not see the bloody hand of ecclesiasticism in
all this?
"In the moral downfall of a nation, the mind is first
broken by constant irritation in devious forms. This nation
is literally writhing in insanity, and crime, the mother of
insanity.
"Why accuse the making of a multitude of criminal
laws? Because:
"
'Crime is the transgression of the law' (1 John 3:4).
"
'Where no law is there is no crime' (Rom. 4:15).
"Why the yowl about the increase in crime with so many
laws on the statute books they cannot be numbered?
"Practically every law passed by a legislative body is in
tended to suppress one criminal individual whereas it irritates
and oppresses thousands of innocent ones.
"For instance, the constitution clearly permits all citi
zens to carry weapons for the protection of their own persons
and property. Because the few may make a misuse of a
weapon the whole community is disarmed, giving the crim
inal classes a free and safe field for operation. The victim
of a burglary may be shot down by the crook, but the help
less, unarmed victim cannot defend himself or property.
"The arming of the whole public would instantly stop
wholesale burglary, especially of private residences and open
business places.
The Awakening 287
"But, why rave ? This nation is being oggled by the whole
world as the next victim of revolution.
"Crime will override the law."
The Doctor slammed his fist upon the table and again
began to walk the floor.
"Well, what can be done to stop it?" asked Grub.
"Nothing," replied the Doctor.
"Unthinking ignorance has done its work."
CHAPTER XXVII
Despite the feeling of the previous day that they were
wandering away from their original theme, and the sugges
tion that they should take a brief rest, both Grub and the
Doctor came into the library smiling.
"Ah, ha ! The jelly is still on your fingers, Grub. What
pantry have you pillaged ?" was the Doctor's cheerful greeting.
"Well, Doctor, I see the butter of good-cheer smeared
over your countenance this morning. Tell me what you have
done with the bread," was Grub's smart-crack answer.
"Look here, boy ; there's something spooky about this,"
exclaimed the Doctor.
"You use the word bread, and this is almost the essence
of my subject this morning, which I am compelled to vent.
I want to examine the nourishment of the bodily tissues,
and compare it with the gnostic system, and in this process
I believe I can demonstrate the origin of the fable of Jesus
being born in a cave, or in a manger, in Bethlehem.
"This will end all controversy regarding the identity of
the Jesus character, and, Grub, I know that you will be as
much astonished as I am, that humanity has been so gullible.
"The code defines Bethlehem as the house of bread and
war.
"Beth means covering, concealment.
"Bread means to brew, to prepare by heat and agitation,
or disturbance ; to roll or seethe, fermentation ; to mingle
or mix, to contrive, to hatch, a mixture prepared by brewing,
to become a food.
"War means embroilment, turmoil — God's method of
destruction.
"Manger means a feeding place for cattle, a crib or
trough. In Palestine it originally was a part of the house,
the manger being the trough into which the food was placed
or mixed for the cattle —this part of the house being the cave.
"Cave means a dwelling or hiding place.
288
The Awakening 289
"Bethlehem, originally, was called Ephrath, meaning fruit
ful. Evidently cognate with Euphrates, meaning fructifying.
The boundary of Eden, meaning pleasure.
"
'Scene of David's conquests.' David means love. When
he became enamoured of a woman he took her, even though
he had to murder her husband (2 Sam. 12:9).
"Webster's definition of manger is to chew ; to emulsify,
to reduce to a milky fluid.
"Do you begin to recognize what I am getting at? The
chyle of digestion, taken up by the lymphatics. Lymph means
water.
"What organ in the body comes nearest to this descrip
tion?
"Sure, I get you. The stomach," exclaimed Grub. "It
surely resembles mixture and warfare in its spiral digestive
operations."
"Now, Grub, the birth of Jesus meant hell on earth. Listen
to this: the abdomen symbolizes the earth. Or, more fully,
the physical body is the earth.
"Right in the beginning of the new testament, words are
put into the mouth of this fictitious being, born in confusion
and war, declaring his purpose to upset the world, and bring
embroilment and conflict, and confusion, onto the people,
by violating the most sacred human ties.
"
'Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. I
came not to send peace but a sword.
"
'For I am come to set a man at variance against his
father, and the daughter against her mother.
" 'And a man's foes shall be they of his own household'
(Matt. 10:34, 35, 36).
"Does that sound like a 'prince of peace'?
"This symbolizes the beginning of the digestive process
in the ecclesiastical exploitation of humanity. Chyle means to
pour, juice, essence. Jesus is born out of water. The multi
tude of people.
"The embroilment of the nations of Europe in endless
wars, by the Roman catholic ecclesia, is authentic history.
290 The Awakening
The damnable crusades, openly preached by the popes, were
well defined, plundering raids. The murderous inquisition
was conceived in the vatican at Rome, and executed by Cath
olic forces in the field, drenching Europe with the blood of
fifty millions of its own people, and the contemptible, cow
ardly, pope-appointed sovereigns permitted and assisted this
thing.
"That was the digestive process which eliminated the ob
jectionable classes from the church field, and that was the
method, until it was discovered that colonization in new coun
tries could be made profitable. It was the 'burning of the
tares' (Matt. 13:42).
"Now, hand me your sets of waves, in which you dem
onstrate the waves as living larvae. Larva means ghost.
"Yes, that's the one. I'll reveal to you the origin of the
wicked christian personifications.
Deglutition and Digestion
Brain Nerves Blood Lymph Stomach
"These are the agents involved.
"Now, my boy, I'm going to show you that the whole
story of the birth of Jesus is but a gnostic lesson in physiology.
"First, let us examine the word Jesus. Je is an abbrevia
tion of Je-hovah, meaning the ever-existent one, God, life.
" 'In God was life; and the life was the light of men'
(Jno. 1:4).
"Sus is equated with the Greek Zoo, meaning life, and
with the English word sow, meaning sustenance. The root
word is sos, meaning comforter, sustainer, to draw out, or
drawn out."
"Ah, I wonder if that is why the signal of distress is
S. O. S. ?" exclaimed Grub.
The Doctor continued :
"Therefore, Je-sus means the ever-existent sustainer of
The Awakening 291
life. It is equated with Jum, the ever-existent sun, or the
light of the sun. Hence Jesus declares:
"'I am the life' (John 14:6).
"'I am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
"
'No one cometh unto the father but by me' (John 14:6).
John declares that he comes to foretell the coming of
Jesus. John means the gift of God.
"
'John was not that light, but was sent to bear witness
of that light' (John 1:8).
"John is Jeho-hanan, abbreviated to Jo-hanan.
"Jeho is Jehovah, or God.
"Jo is increase.
"Hanan means mercy, which means hire, pay, reward.
"Joha means given life. Jo = increase, ha = generation.
"This sufficiently identifies these personified characters.
Let us now identify your larvae.
Q—Potential Electron, symbolizes the brain.
"Out of this potential electron are sent the creative forces
which adjust themselves to the physical agents to direct as
similation of the products of digestion—a chemical process.
Nitrogen Oxygen Carbon Hydrogen
"These are the elements entering into the material struc
tures to nourish the tissues of the body.
"Carbon —John, foretells the coming of oxygen—Jesus,
life and intellect.
"God cannot manifest at this time because God is cold
nitrogen. God follows Christ to the earth, or rather, God
assumes the form of Christ. T and my father are one.'
"John is the bones animated by Jesus, the muscles, and
following the oxygen wave, we find the nitrogen wave. Hence
'God manifests in the flesh' by following oxygen into the
tissues, especially the structures of the brain and medullary
matter.
292 The Awakening
"Father means the source of authority, the head.
"So important is this word 'father' it appears in the
Bible about seven hundred times. The root is pa = to protect,
papa, pope.
"The father is also the master, the Lord.
"Lord means the dispenser of bread. Loaf-warden.
"Which again corroborates the heavenly father as the
sun, the producer.
"
'In him was life; and the life was the light of men'
(John 1:4).
"The true God and eternal life' (1 John 5:20).
"Now, we are told:
"
'God is light, and in him is no darkness at all' ( 1 Jno.
1:5).
"Christ declares:
"T and my father are one' (Jno. 10:30).
"Now, Grub, here is my conclusion. While we recog
nize the earth as symbolizing the hydrogen spiral, we have
not duly examined the sun as an earlier spiral body, out of
which are radiated the oxygen spirals.
"Christ, as a product of the sun, the father, comes to
the earth, not as the oxygen wave, but as the oxygen spiral
of light, which we find in our atmosphere.
"Hence, the planetary process precedes the earth. Again
let us examine your waves.
God Christ Man
Spirit Soul Body
"Hence the warning that there is a higher life :
"
'Fear not them that kill the body, but are not able to
kill the soul; but rather fear him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell' (Matt. 10:28).
"Hell means the grave.
"It is important here to identify the holy-ghost, to see
what part it takes in this killing of the body.
The Awakening 293
"Gen. 25 :8 : 'Abraham gave up the ghost.'
"Tshmael gave up the ghost' (Gen. 25:17).
"'Isaac gave up the ghost' (Gen. 35:29).
"'Jacob yielded up the ghost' (Gen. 49:33).
"
'Jesus cried out with a loud voice and gave up the
ghost' (Mark 15:37).
"Here is a lesson:
"Ab-ra-ham : the high hot father, heat or warmth of
the sun. The father of multitudes. Abraham came out of
ur—fire. The high-priest of fire worship ceased to function.
"Ish-ma-el means sterility, a sterile mother, a barren and
fruitless thing, nonproductive, one of Abraham's bastards, the
lowest type of people maintained by charity.
"Is-a-ac, first cause of primitive power, laughter, joy,
prosperity, light, knowledge.
"Jacob—Ja-cobus —usurpation, insidious, the supplanter.
As Israel, the church of Christ.
"Jesus—Greek form of Joshua, meaning increased wealth.
Je is an abbreviation of Jehovah; sus—sustenance.
"The holy-ghost, the breath of life, was withdrawn from
all of these, to make way for the living personifications on
earth, the church organization.
"Now you can see the secret purpose of the old testament.
"These all represent the established things which had to
be secretly smothered to death, and, figuratively, their at
mospheres were destroyed ; their respiration was cut off ; their
breath ceased, and they died. But, their memory lives in the
atmosphere of the living church.
"Now we have the evidence that the universal wisdom
consists of the memory of past things, to be drawn upon by
living generations on earth. Atmosphere means breath, soul.
"The joy, prosperity, knowledge and understanding which
were inspiring the world, had to be destroyed to make way
for ecclesiasticism.
"Do you see no premeditation in this?
"The world would better take warning.
"The old testament was but the rehearsal of the game
294 The Awakening
which was to be pulled off, which has subsequently been pur
sued and which is not yet complete. The end is not far
distant. The final stroke will be laid down here, in the United
States. Revelation was added in 1672 having especial refer
ence to the exploitation of the United States.
"Moses, the law, gave up the ghost and died.
"Mo means water, a multitude of people and laws.
"In the United States the holy-ghost is being systemat
ically smothered out of the nation under a blanket of irritating,
oppressive laws.
"What evidence have we that this is a premeditated thing ?
"Evidence of the creation of crime by the law:
"
'Where no law is there is no transgression' (Rom. 5 :15).
"
'Without the law sin is dead' (Rom. 7:8).
"A dead thing is not active.
"Evidence that the laws are intended to suppress the
freedom of the people, and drive them into the church for
protection. The confessional must usurp the place of the law.
"
'The law is our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ,
that we may be justified by faith' (Gal. 3:24).
"Evidence that the law is to die, as Moses died, to give
way to church authority. Christ means official authority.
"
'After faith is come we are no longer under the law'
(Gen. 3:25). 'Christ is the end of the law' (Rom. 10:4).
"Evidence that the church is to assume all authority
over violators of the law:
"
'For the time is come that judgment must begin at
the house of God; and if it first begin at us what shall the
end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?' (1 Peter
4:17).
"Who are 'us'? The priesthood.
"This is the beginning of the second inquisition, and it
is in operation in the United States right now.
"In this connection we find an awkward contradiction :
"
'For the father judgeth no man but hath committed
all judgment unto the son' (Jno. 5:22).
"But Jesus declares:
The Awakening 295
"'I came not to judge the world' (John 12:47).
"And to overcome this error, the power to judge is given
to the son of man, the priest (John 5:27). Nevertheless,
Paul preaches:
"
'Let no man judge you in meat, or in drink, or in
reference to the sabbath day' (Col. 2:16).
"Evidence that it is a premeditated thing to legislate all
humanity into a state of criminality.
"
'Now we know that what things soever the law saith,
it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth
may be stopped and all the world may become guilty' (Rom.
3:19).
"
'By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justi
fied; for by the law is the knowledge of sin' (Rom. 3:20).
"Evidence that these things mean the civil governments
and their laws:
"
'For we wrestle—against principalities and powers of
this world' (Eph. 6:12).
"And now we come to the culmination of all this evi
dence that this christian pretense is but a concealing cover,
hiding the ecclesia, which is to step into power when the
church has cleared the way for Jacob. Usurpation by trickery,
to assume control and authority.
"Jesus Christ, church authority, will resign and sit at
the right hand of ecclesiasticism as the ruling power of the
earth.
"Ecclesia means heavenly government.
"Heaven means ecclesiastical government.
"Earth means producing mankind.
"
'Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up
the kingdom of God, even the father; when he shall have
put down all rule and all authority and power.
"
'For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under
his feet.
" 'And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then
shall the son also himself be subject unto him that put all
things under him, that God may be all in all' (1 Cor. 15).
296 The Awakening
"The ecclesia manifests its power and authority.
"Now, prepare for the shock, Grub.
"This thing was pulled off in Europe.
"The popes of Rome held the temporal power over the
nations of Europe for nearly five hundred years. The human
sacrifice in the burning of the tares aggregated sixty million
lives.
"We previously found that at the end of the tenth cen
tury all Europe was anticipating the literal ending of the
world. It was but a figurative thing, and the priesthood knew
and fostered it. It was then the end of independent sover
eignty came, and papal authority seized the temporal power,
holding this power over Europe till the latter part of the
nineteenth century, when the Americas became the catholic
Garden of Eden, and exchanged the temporal power over
European nations for non-interference in North America.
"This is what we must prepare for:
"
'The field is the world.
"
'The good seeds are the children of the ecclesia.
"
'The tares are the children not of the church.
"
'The harvest is the end of the world.
"
'The reapers are the inquisitors, priests.
"
'The tares are gathered and burned in the fire.
"
'So shall it be in the end of this world.
"
'The pope shall send forth his priests to gather all that
is offensive to the church.
"
'And shall cast them into a furnace of fire ; there shall
be wailing and gnashing of teeth' (Matt. 13).
"This is no bedtime story ; it is a gruesome, grinning fact,
as Europe can attest.
"I can plainly discern the hand of secret, militant church
forces guiding the people of the United States away from
intellectual pursuits by the glamour of athletics.
"The voice of militarism is ever whispering in the ear
of our youth; prepare your body for the next exciting war.
International wars have superceded papal crusades, crippled
The Awakening 297
heroes have succeeded the gods — a good excuse to collect
money in the name of charity.
"If one could possess a telepathic mind which could
search out the intricacies of church and national intrigues,
he would be shocked to learn how little of manhood is left
in those who govern the people.
"Again I have permitted myself to be guided away from
my lecture, so closely allied are the two subjects. We shall
take the story of your larval waves up again tomorrow, Grub."
CHAPTER XXVin
"Let us begin where we left off yesterday, Grub," said
the Doctor, as he arranged his papers upon the table.
"The primary set of waves form but half of the creative
process —the active half resting in the spiral molecule, the
first living germ, life embodied, NOCH = 43. Out of this
spiral comes the resurrection.
"In so far as the nourishment of the tissues of the body
is concerned, this spiral is the leucocyte, taken up by the
lymphatics and distributed to their proper destinations, there
to undergo other transformations.
"We readily recognize the positive waves in the personi
fied ecclesiastical characters. This is the spiritual half of
the apple, and especially represents the planetary forces.
"Out of this spiral are born the other half —the secondary
or reactive series of waves, which must be the reflected image
and likeness of the positive set.
"At first it is not recognized how the godly may be
separated from the earthy. But, see how cunning. They take
advantage of the satellite moon having separated from the
earth, and they personify it as the church, the measurer of
spiritual light, the mediator between the planetary system and
the earth, which is Adam, the earthy adamic race of men,
separated from the godly priesthood. This separates the im
maculate priesthood from earthy contact.
"We may readily recognize the physical personification
of the moon as the reflective brain.
"It is out of the leucocyte, in the lymph, we must trail
the earthy symbolisms.
"Lymph means clear water.
"Leucocyte means a hollow vessel.
"We must follow this corpuscle through the blood, the
marrow of the bone, and the connective tissues :
Q , 'Male and female created he them' (Gen.
1:27).
298
The Awakening 299
o>owb»^ ^^"^^b/ 'Jesus. tne son of man' (Matt.
8:20).
°^s^^^^'^^^^^ 'God is not a man nor the son of
man' (Num. 23:19).
" 'I and my father are one' (John 10:30). Observe, oxy
gen speaks.
"Jesus is the 'word' coming out of the mouth of nitrogen,
God.
y^\|VO 'God is all and in all' (Eph. 1
:23).
"It is at this point God exclaims:
"
T am the beginning and the end, the first and the last'
(Rev. 22:13).
"And it is most suggestive that this passage appears at
the end of the last chapter in the Bible, which was not ac
cepted until the year 1672.
"Now we may understand why nitrogen assumes the
shape of a ring in the earthy atmosphere, symbolizing uni
versal wisdom—the serpent with his tail in his mouth. The
original globule, or electron, is the womb out of which the
primary positive waves are born. It contains all. Hence God
declares: 'God is all and in all.'
"In this seemingly intricate system or process, the physical
man procures the raw materials from external sources, and
presents them to the head for censorship and selection. If
accepted the creative or spiritual man, as represented by the
primary set of waves, converts these materials into a vitalized
pabulum. The subjective mentation directs an intelligent dis
tribution of this pabulum for the construction and nourish
ment of the tissues, the last act being the manifestation of
'God in the flesh.'
"This is the revelation—the perfected man glorified.
"In the code, flesh means 'the body of man,' 'outward
appearance.'
"It is instructive to follow the Jesus character through
this process.
300 The Awakening
"Jesus, the ever existent life, is carried into Egypt, the
digestive process, with its spiral operation in digesting the ma
terials passing into the stomach for food.
"Egypt means oppression and misery.
"Jesus is called out of Egypt by the creative forces and
temporarily resides in the lymphatic circulation. We at once
recognize the first living, or embodied form of Jesus as the
leucocyte.
"Lymph means water. Hence Jesus, as the son of man,
is born out of the water.
"Jesus said: 'Verily I say unto thee, except a man be
born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom
of God' (John 3:5).
"Jesus passes out of the lymph and enters into the cir
culating blood, symbolizing Galilee, meaning wheel, revolution.
The white leucocyte becomes the red blood corpuscle, a disc
or wheel.
" 'The holy-ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus
was not yet glorified' (John 7:39).
"Upon coming in contact with the elements of respira
tion Jesus receives the holy-ghost. Holy-ghost means the
breath.
"Now the living corpuscles are invested with the state
of conscious individuality.
"Jesus, the leucocyte, or lymph corpuscle, upon entering
the blood comes in contact with the haemoglobin of the blood
plasma, which endows it with oxygen from the lungs, and
converts it into the red blood corpuscle, giving it the sense
of respiration. This is the end of the digestive cycle.
"Look what a cunning thing this
is,
Grub: respiration
means expansion and contraction. This
is
a
union of the
God and Christ principles. God
is
potential life. Jesus
is
expanding life.
"It
is
here John exclaims:
"
'This
is
he that came by water and blood, not by water
only, but by water and blood, and
it
is
the spirit that beareth
witness, because the spirit
is
truth'
(1
Jno. 5:6).
The Awakening 301
"
'For there are three that bear record in heaven, the
father, the word, and the holy-ghost, and these three are one'
(1 John 5:7).
"This trio is thought, speech and breath.
"
'Who is the image of the invisible God, the first born
of every creature' (Col. 1:15).
"
'As our words are the images of our thoughts.'
"Spirit, life and breath unite as one in the blood, hence :
"'The blood is the life of the flesh' (Gen. 9:4).
" 'And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood ;
and his name is called the word of God' (Rev. 19:13).
"Jesus now becomes the life of the muscular system
and is ready for the 'crucifixion.'
"The muscles are hanged upon a tree, the human skel
eton. The system hangs from the base of the skull.
"Golgotha means skull.
"Calvary means skull.
"Of course the malefactors hanged with him went where
he went, for they were his right and left arm.
"Jesus must now pass into an earthy sepulchre, to com
plete the story.
"The bones symbolize this tomb.
"After having made the great sacrifice to the muscles,
the red-blood corpuscles are carried into the bones, from which
tomb Jesus arises into the new life.
"This is the resurrection.
"The process is extremely simple.
"An examination of the large bones of the human body
reveals the central medullary cavity filled with the marrow.
"In the spaces of the spongy portion of the bone sur
rounding the cavity is the red—marrow. Quite different from
the yellow, fatty marrow of the central cavity.
"The compact or hard parts of the bone are filled with
microscopic cavities, called haversian canals, which ramify all
through the bones, and open upon the surface of the bone,
into which flows the blood.
302 The Awakening
"The lacunae cavities are flat, oval receptacles, resemb
ling two concave halves with their edges fitted together.
These are filled with the exuded, red-blood fluid which has
surrendered the transparent part of the read-blood corpuscle.
"These cavities are the figurative tomb of Jesus, the cruci
fied, muscular Christ, who has surrendered his carbon body
to form the hard portions of the bones, the earthy man, and
his spiritual body rises up to take its place at the right hand
of God in heaven, becoming the living cells in the medullary
matter of the tissues of the brain and cerebro-spinal nerves.
" 'If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which
are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God'
(Col. 3:1).
"The red-marrow of the bones reveals the earthy man
clothed in the cast off bloody vestures of Christ.
"Now do you understand the similitude of Jesus sacri
ficing his material body and blood upon the cross for the
benefit of the earthy humanity?
"As I previously said, the whole fabulous story of the
life and crucifixion of Christ is a gnostic lesson in the deeper
physiology.
"This passing of the purged corpuscles into the nervous
structures is the second resurrection.
"
'So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in
corruption; it is raised in incorruption' (1 Cor. 15:42).
"
'It is sown a natural body ; it is raised a spiritual body.
There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body' (1 Cor.
15:44).
"The evidence that the Jesus or Christ principle is now
become a symbol of authority, is seen in the fact that, after
the day he was taken up, through the holy ghost, he ceased
to teach his disciples and began to command them (Acts 1).
"Before I get too far away from
it,
I
must call your
attention to this: We know that the bone and marrow in
our reactive wave system, symbolize man and woman. The
rising out of the bone of the medullary element, to form the
The Awakening 303
tissues of the nervous system, is the symbol also of the moon
having been cast off by the earth.
"Therefore, the raising up of Jesus Christ merely figures
the drawing forth of the church from the common earthy
mankind, to educate a favored class in the mysteries of the
gnostic wisdom, with the belief that a spiritual existence after
death is a cultivated thing. That is our own theory, Grub.
Je means the ever-existent state, sus means to draw out, or
drawn out.
"Now, Grub, one of two things is true : either the gnostic
wisdom was wonderfully advanced in scientific research, or
all this ecclesiastic stuff is the product of minds ages after
the alleged time the Bible was written.
"But, I am not quite through with my story.
"Holy-ghost means the breath of respiratory beings.
"The pneumogastric nerve controls respiration.
"By the breath we may exercise the voice and express
our thoughts in understandable words.
"We have seen the Christ principle enter the blood and
become endowed with respiration and the power of speech.
"Upon receiving the power of speech amazement is ex
pressed in this exclamation:
" 'Are not all these that speak Galileans ?'
"This was every man speaking the language of the tissues
in which he is an element.
"The co-ordinate understanding, and intelligent co-oper
ation between the dissimilar parts and tissues of the body is
one of the great mysteries in physiology. This is wholly due
to the nervous system and the circulating blood coming in
contact with all these parts.
"The suggestion that the bone is the tomb of the Jesus
principle is very well authenticated.
"The law forbade burial to those hanged upon a tree,
the crucifixion, but a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph,
who also was a disciple of Jesus, prevailed upon Pilate to
surrender the body of Jesus for burial.
304 The Awakening
"Arimathaea means vision, delusion, dream. A vision or
dream of the increasing people.
"Joseph means increased numbers.
"Jesus was submerged in the increasing population of the
earth. Hence the blood is found in every part of the body.
"Now listen to this:
"
'Joseph wrapped the body in a clean linen cloth and
laid it in his own new tomb which he had hewn out in the
rock' (Matt. 27:60).
"We saw the red blood corpuscles shed their bloody
garments and pass into the lacunae cavities in the bone from
which it emerged a clear, transparent cell.
"That cavity is the tomb of Jesus, who is always pic
tured as arising from his tomb in a white shroud.
"Rock means a safe place, a refuge.
"The hard bone symbolizes the rock upon which Christ's
church rests.
"Arimathaea also means little hill, a very fitting name
to apply to the lacunae.
"Now, Grub, I am going to shock you by introducing
to you the greater man. The man of the world has arisen.
The resurrection is at hand and this is the true resurrection
of the living body, a well-prepared plastic mass.
"The head, the vatican state.
"The thorax, Europe.
"The abdomen, the United States.
"The pelvic region, the high seas.
"That is the physical man.
"The nervous system, education.
"The blood, legislation.
"The lymph, commerce.
"The red blood corpuscles which draw the ever existent
life from the producing earth, the bones.
"The white corpuscles, the professional classes, living off
the system.
"This is the machinery of digestion now grinding out
The Awakening 305
its grist, in the stomach of modern civilization. The end
seems inevitable.
"Already the nation is maimed beyond recognition.
"Useful education is not available to the masses.
"There is scarcely a wholly mental and physically healthy
person to be found.
"Insanity is increasing faster than the population. It is
impossible to provide for its care.
"Crime is overtopping the law.
"Senseless legislation is smothering the nation.
"Poverty is doing its deadly work.
"Heedless taxation is devouring the people. Calamity
stands grinning, awaiting the harvest."
"Let us stop, Doctor. I can stand no more now," whis
pered Grub.
"Thus ended the dream of awakening the gnostic philos
ophy for the good of humanity. They found no visible God
who could relieve the cruel situation.
"But," said the Doctor, "reaction is equal to action, and
it is inevitable. No man or organization of men can suppress
nature permanently.
"Accursed wars are but vicious irritants. Crime is insan
ity. Insanity will wipe civilization from the face of the earth.
"What a beastly ending of the grand purposes of nature.
The provoking thing
is,
the conscienceless fools, who have
brought all this upon humanity, have no greater capacity for
suffering than their own victims, else nature would provide
a
special hell in which they might suffer through all eternity."
CHAPTER XXIX
As the Doctor's thoughtful face appeared in the library,
Grub recognized he had something serious upon his mind.
"While our subject has been deeply interesting and in
structive, Grub, we have made it too all-absorbing. We are
really neglecting important matters, for the constant study and
research it requires. Therefore, I suggest that we attempt
to summarize the essential truths of our previous discussions,
and see if we may assemble them in a consecutive and under
standable form.
"I have, from time to time, made memoranda of those
things which most impressed me. I shall make a review of
these our morning lesson.
"I am deeply impressed by your wave theory. It explains
all, as nothing else can do, and while we have found intima
tions of an ulterior knowledge of the underlying principles
involved, in so far as I am able to find, you are first to dem
onstrate the system of actual waves, adjusted to natural phe
nomena.
First Cause Vibratory Gaseous Solid Fluid
"These primary waves fitly symbolize the five senses,
usually exercised by living organic beings :
O The globular electron symbolizes the eye,
seeing.
The spiral wave of nitrogen is symbolic of
the ear, hearing.
The spiral wave of oxygen symbolizes the sense
of smell.
306
The Awakening 307
—smbo The carbon straight line symbolizes taste.
^ The spiral hydrogen molecule symbolizes touch.
"I remember that you explained to me that the primitive,
or positive, set of waves begin as elongated spirals and I
believe that is true.
"It is a truth, these waves reveal the origin and end of
living bodies, and these are the only attitudes and motions
material bodies can assume. Let me repeat:
Electron
Potential
State
Brain
Sun
Nitrogen
Vibratory
Cold
Flesh
Moon
Oxygen
Gaseous
Warm
Muscle
Stars
Carbon
Solid
Dry
Bone
Land
Hydrogen
Fluid
Moist
Marrow
Sea
"The primary attitudes may manifest in consecutive
waves, masses or consistency, but the principles involved are
the same.
"The electron is the primary cell, the seat of the four
active elements represented by the progressive waves of motion.
These represent one original force in four aspects. This prim
itive motion is life, manifested in four states of being, neces
sarily substantial although immaterial. It is the process of
assembling primary substance into material forms or bodies.
It requires four elemental substances, created out of the orig
inal electron, to form the first molecule of matter. Sub
sequent accumulations and combinations develop bodies, and
inspire growth.
"Vibratory, gaseous, solid and fluid.
"These are the creative attitudes and conditions which
manifest in the first molecule.
"Life manifests in motion, and seeks embodiment and
rest in matter. The five senses become individualized and are
combined in one body, to promote physical growth, by the
308 The Awakening
acquisition of essential elements. This is the beginning of the
sense of selectivity.
"The selection, acquisition and appropriation of external
elements, for the nourishment of the body, is the sole reason
for, and purpose of, the five external sense organs.
"The three waves, and the spiral, unite to form the living
molecule, the first germ of embodied life, as symbolized by
the hydrogen spiral, out of which evolves all subsequent liv
ing bodies. NOCH — 43.
"Hydrogen is from hydor, meaning water. Within this
molecule is the spark of universal life, hence the saying that
life on this planet begins in the waters.
"Axial motion is the first motion of independent, living
bodies —organic being.
"Life constructs for itself a material body from the uni
versal elements available for this purpose, and that primitive
body is the molecule.
"Pardon me, Doctor, but this explains:
"
'Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
"
'That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which
is born of the spirit is spirit.
"
'Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born
again' (John 3:5, 6, 7).
"The fleshy body rises out of the water, and receives the
spirit out of the atmosphere, making it a respiratory being,
hence a being with organs, a living soul.
" 'And the Lord God breathed into his nostrils the breath
of life; and man became a living soul' (Gen. 2:7).
"This clearly refers to embodied life arising from the
first molecule of primary substance," and Grub looked at
the Doctor for approval.
"You have the Biblical plagiarism right, Grub," said the
Doctor. "You might have continued your quotation and
cleared the question.
"
'There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body.
The Awakening 309
" 'The first man Adam was made a living soul ; the last
Adam a quickening spirit.
"
'The first man is of the earth earthy ; the second man
is the Lord from heaven' (1 Cor. 15).
i' "This clearly distinguishes between the vegetation and the
respiratory animals.
"Until the body receives the holy-ghost, the breath, it
has no part in the kingdom of God, the respiratory world.
It is the breath which converts the body into a living soul.
"The first molecule is the pristine body, the primary mat
ter. Composite bodies are subsequent formations, combinations
of materials of digestion and excretion.
"The excrement may be a living fruit, having productive
powers, or it may be a lifeless deposit, to be rejuvenated by
chemical processes.
"The first fruits, wines and liquors belong to God (Ex.
22). This is the living fruit.
"Through the priesthood, which even eats and drinks for
the Lord.
"Selectivity is an inherent sense of the primitive hydro
gen cell or molecule; constructive elements are selected and
incorporatd with the original cell, and this causes growth in
living bodies, as an assembly of human beings form a com
munity. Each individual being a cell in that aggregate body.
"The only direction in which a living, composite body
may grow is outward. Therefore, it extracts the primary
molecules from nourishing materials, and excretes the waste.
In the process of excretion we see the living fruit of diges
tion, distributed and assimilated, to form the gross tissues of
the body, and the dead products cast out of the body.
"The living elements are distributed to construct flesh,
muscle, bone and marrow. Therefore, if 'God manifests in
the flesh,' again the first fruits of digestion and assimilation
belong to God—the gnostic God, a living excrement.
"The first living body becomes the pattern or model for
all subsequent living bodies, in so far as the position of ele
ments is found.
310 The Awakening
"In the primary cell is the hydrogen nucleus, surrounded
by carbon, and having an atmosphere of oxygen and nitrogen.
"In the grosser living bodies this identical arrangement
of elements is manifest in flesh, muscle, bone and marrow.
Therefore we may recognize the controlling element in each
of these structures.
"This applies to organic bodies, as distinguished from
vegetation, which draws its life direct from the earth and at
mosphere. Nevertheless, the same elemental disposition is
revealed, but reversing the position of the waves :
Root Trunk Branches Leaves Fruit
"Now, my boy, we are getting at the truth.
"The primary set of waves is the sowing of the seeds.
The spiral molecule carries the sense of reproduction.
"The secondary set of waves produces the fruits.
"We recognize our own planet as an exaggerated model
of such a life cell, and this makes visible to us the mysterious
processes of development of the original, invisible, electric
molecule into greater, composite, material bodies.
"The sun, moon, stars and earth reveal the original source
of our materials for physical and mental development.
"The spiral represents the female principle, therefore,
it is the agent of both secretion and excretion—a magnetic
attitude.
"The universal, physical life of the waters creeps out
upon the land, becoming visible. The life beneath the earth
comes to the surface and assumes visible forms.
"This is the first motion of revelation.
"There is but one great purpose in this; it is to develop
vision, to form contact with light; hence, the secondary or
reverse set of waves must complete the cycle.
"This reveals the foundation of the ecclesiastic symbol-
The Awakening 311
isms based upon the visible, heavenly bodies, in nature worship.
"This reveals an astonishing system:
Q The original electron, a globule, symbolizes the source
of life, for visible material beings. The sun is the revela
tion of life as light.
Q The terminating circle, at the end of the cycle, is the
awakening of vision, the opening of the eye, symbolizing
the knowledge and presence of God (Heb. 4:13).
"The ecclesiastical reconstruction of these waves reverses
the secondary series thus, beginning with the circle and des
cending to the spiral—a contrary motion.
Priesthood Princes The People
Wisdom, Church and State
"This places the circle in the primitive attitude of the
original electron.
"Do you see, now, how the church stands between wisdom
and common humanity?
"The circle symbolizes the moon —the church.
"The spiral symbolizes the earth —humanity.
"In the code moon means the measurer.
"The earth means producing humanity.
"The atmosphere is church and state combined.
"Atmosphere is from the Sanskrit at man, meaning
breath, soul, a surrounding medium. Hence the soul essence
is in the atmosphere. We continually breathe this into our
bodies.
"God is not visible in this reversed set of waves. God
is the sun, hence this reversal of waves.
"To make God visible would reveal that this is but a
system of planetary and nature worship.
"
'God is a spirit ; and they that worship him must worship
him in spirit' (John 4:24).
312 The Awakening
"
'No man hath seen God at any time' (John 1
:18).
" 'It is the spirit that quickeneth' (Jno. 6:63).
"We know the sunlight quickeneth every living thing on
the earth.
"There is a very good and sufficient reason why the sun
is not visible in this reversed set of waves. The moon, which
symbolizes the church, is the lesser light which 'rules the
night.'
"Night means darkness, ignorance.
"The christian day begins in the evening.
"
'The evening and the morning was the first day' (Gen.
1:5).
"It is a self-evident fact that this is not true. Between
evening and morning is the night. That is when we have
the moonlight. This makes a period of ignorance the ecclesi
astic day.
"It is the spiritual training of humanity which the church
seeks.
"This abnormal day means a gospel period.
"It may mean twelve hours or it may mean a thousand
years —the thousand years when ecclesiasticism bound hu
manity in abject ignorance (485 to 1496)
—the 'dark ages.'
"We may now appreciate the value of the secret ecclesi
astical code for interpreting the 'great mystery.'
"The stars mean princes, principalities, civil governments
under church control, and pope-appointed rulers.
"The sea means mer, Mary, rebellion, turbulent commo
tions.
"Mary is the church mother, giving birth to the high-
priest (Heb. 7:26).
"Mary is but the Greek form of Miriam, meaning re
bellion; the sister of Moses, the law and Aaron, the teacher.
"We may now diagram this with perfect understanding,
and eliminate the sun from the earthy vision. It is the ecclesia
hiding behind the church; sun-worship hiding behind chris
tianity.
The Awakening 313
"The greater circle here represents the primitive, repro
ductive molecule.
"It was necessary to name the visible stars as princes,
because they could not be concealed, shining brighter by night
than by day. Jesus names himself 'the bright and morning
star' (Rev. 22:16). 'The prince of life' (Acts 3:15).
"But, we have a more certain way of convicting the
church, by its own Bible, and its secret code.
"
'So all the generations from Abraham to David are
fourteen generations ; and from David until the carrying away
into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from the carry
ing away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations
(Matt. 1:17).
"This aggregates forty-two generations.
N. 14 O. 16 C. 12 — 42.
314 The Awakening
"They put man and woman as one in carbon.
"Where is the hydrogen spiral?
"Why the moon, of course, cast off the side of the earth.
"The rib taken out of the side of Adam.
"Mary is derived from mer, the sea, and Mary is the
church.
"It was necessary to leave off the spiral:
The Head The Head The Head
of Christ of Man of Woman (1 Cor. 11:3).
"Jesus repudiated his own mother because of this (Matt.
12:48).
"The earth was not directly attached to the moon, hence,
the woman here is the female principle in man, becoming the
symbol of the church on earth.
"In the word Ad-am, am means the female deity.
"This knowledge betrayed in the secret use of these waves,
makes it perfectly clear that the authors of all this cunning
Bible stuff were deeply versed in the gnostic philosophy, or
else the Bible was produced ages after its alleged origin.
"If this is not true, then so-called modern science is a
fake, and the alleged discoveries of the 17th, 18th and 19th
centuries were in connivance with jesuitry —the then only
source of such wisdom— the stolen and secreted wisdom of
gnosticism.
"Grub, here is the great mystery which Jesus revealed
to his disciples but withheld from the people.
"The sunlight is not Jesus Christ. It is the civil govern
ment ruling by day —ruling the physical man —the ecclesia.
"The light received from the moon is a reflected light —
the radiated light of the sun is reflected to the earth by the
moon, and that moon-light symbolizes wisdom.
"
'Christ is the wisdom of God' (1 Cor. 1 :24).
The Awakening 315
"Do you now see how Jesus is the son of God, and Mary,
as symbolizing the moon? The church on earth becomes the
mother of Jesus. This removes all doubht about christianity
being sun-worship, concealed by symbolism.
"When Jesus declares :
"T am the light of the world' (John 8:12), he means
he is the subjective mind of man, smothered by ecclesiasticism.
"See how simple the idea, that he is also the 'son of man.'
"Ad-am means a union of the male and female principles
in the earth.
"Ad means heat, passion.
"Am means the female deity.
"Human intellect is the 'Christ within us.'
"Do you see now what is meant by the great sacrifice
of Jesus, the crucifixion?
"The wisdom of the world was deliberately destroyed.
Gnosticism —to know —was throttled, and all humanity was
cast into the darkness of utter ignorance for a thousand years,
that the reflected wisdom of the moon, the measurer, the
church, might take the place of the greater light of the sun —
natural enlightenment of the school of nature.
"Are you beginning to grasp the character of this dast
ardly crime against nature and all mankind?
"Do you now understand the significance of Adam being
kicked out of the 'Garden of Eden' for partaking of knowl
edge directly from nature?
"Do you see the significance of the 'deep sleep' put upon
Adam, and the taking of woman from his side?
"Woman means the body politic.
"Both knowledge and civil government were to be taken
from the masses of humanity.
"The woman was not driven out of the Garden of Eden,
meaning a place of culture and pleasure.
"Do you grasp, now, the significance of nunneries?
"Is it to be supposed that fat, lazy, lascivious priests
would stand for being deprived of their women?
"The most vulgar and loathsome human history is of the
316 The Awakening
vicious lives of the popes, and the priesthood, in relation to
women. Monasteries and nunneries, like jesuitry, have fre
quently been suppressed throughout Europe.
"But, I am not through with similitudes and personifi
cations.
"Gnosticism taught that, organic life upon this planet
was a reflected image of the planetary system, with mankind
as the final revelation.
"It was to suppress this natural revelation that ecclesi-
asticism suppressed gnosticism. Did mankind become fully
aware of the purposes of nature, every man would realize
that he was a god in himself.
"Even the ecclesiasts could not wholly conceal this.
" 'Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that
the spirit of God dwelleth in you?' (1 Cor. 3:16).
"Jesus himself is made to say :
"'I said, ye are gods' (John 10:34).
"The jesuit schools were secretly established to conceal
the confiscation of the gnostic wisdom in order that the church
might pose as the enlightener of mankind, and the revealer
of inspired wisdom. The unanswerable proof of this is in
the fact that gnostic wisdom existed thousands of years before
Christianity was dreamed of by cunning, usurpative minds.
"It is an extraordinary fact that Lavoisier is given credit
for having discovered both nitrogen and oxygen, while as
sociated with jesuitry. But, unfortunately, he took it upon
himself to give names to his discoveries which were danger
ously offensive to the church. He revealed these secret dis
coveries.
"He named nitrogen azote, meaning no-life, because nit
rogen is a non-supporter of embodied life, and a decomposer
of organic matter.
"This upset the stories of life in the Mazarin Bible, then
in use by the church.
"His discovery of oxygen wholly upset the Phlogistic
theory of chemistry, upon which the Bible was based. It
eliminated fire as a spirit, and knocked old Abraham's eye
The Awakening 317
out. Abraham represented that spirit, coming out of Ur,
fire.
"There is little doubt about Lavoisier's having been be
headed for having revealed the false-pretense of Biblical an
tiquity, and that the gnostic philosophy was the source of
Biblical wisdom.
"If a five year old child insults a priest, or kills a
modern policeman, it must die. As the bastard child of David
and Bath-sheba was murdered to save the face of the church,
although David had killed Uriah and prostituted his wife.
"David is named as the 'father of Jesus Christ' (Matt.
1:1).
"Such vulgarities found in the Bible condemn christianity
as an unworthy thing.
"An analysis of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, as given
in Matthew 1, by the ecclesiastic code, reveals it to be simply
the essential elements in the organization and conduct of the
church, as the twelve characters forming Israel portray the
establishing of the priesthood of the church of Christ.
"The alleged Hebrew stuff of the old testament, with
all its vulgarities, is merely the preliminary outlining and
planning of the real, active christian church.
"It is neither history nor truth, but a fabulous romance,
inspiring more of evil than of good.
"Now let us make a brief comparison of the human body
with what the life waves have revealed to us. If we find
that we can construct the human body in a manner for its
organs and parts to reflect an image of the creative source,
we shall have solved the whole mystery. The image and
likeness theme is not a myth.
"There are four plains of manifestation, as revealed by
the fishes of the waters ; the respiratory animals of the land ;
the fowls of the air, and then what?
"Who is so rash as to declare there is no life in the
vibratory world ?
"Scales, hair, feathers mean that physical bodies must be
clothed, therefore, the absence of any further external cover
318 The Awakening
ing means that the vibratory life is not physical. This tells
us why nitrogen is an agent of decomposition.
"A composite body cannot reside in the vibratory state.
Nevertheless, the original monks attempted to establish for
themselves, in Egypt, a monastic colony which they named
nitria. They made themselves so obnoxious, the emperor
of that country drafted five thousand of them into menial
service, thus automatically fulfilling the law of nature.
"The church symbolizes the nitrogenous life on earth,
associated with the oxygen of civil government.
"'God is spirit' (John 4:24).
"'The father judgeth no man' (Jno. 5:22).
"We may now draw these deductions :
"The electron is the seed and source of all.
"The soul essence is in the atmosphere —nitrogen.
"The spirit essence is oxygen drawn from sunlight.
"
'It is the spirit that quickeneth' (Jno. 6:63).
"The spiral at the end of the primary set of waves is the
first embodied life, hence the seat of life is in the living cells
of the physical body.
"The circle at the end of the first cycle is the awakening
of vision.
"This identifies the nitrogenous brain as the seat of un-
embodied life, the spirit, and the heart the seat of embodied
life, the soul, oxygen.
"The mechanical seat of respiration is in the thorax, and
by the breath the holy-ghost enters the body, making the whole
body a 'living soul,' proving again that the distributive seat
of life is in the primitive living cells, and by their magnetic
character bind spirit, soul and body together.
"The most ancient philosophies have likened the organs
of the human body to the planetary bodies :
"Mercury —the head or brain.
"Venus —the heart.
"Earth—the stomach.
"Mars —the kidneys.
"The asteroids symbolize the bones.
The Awakening 319
"The planets external to the asteroids figure the external
physical structures.
"It is the moon principle which is so amazingly revealed
in the human organism.
"Let us diagram this composite 'image and likeness':
"The act of walking brings the body in contact with all
the elements. The legs are in contact with carbon. The arms
reach out for oxygen. The up-and-down motion executes the
nitrogen wave, the forward step the oxygen. They follow
a straight line, carbon to the spiral turn, hydrogen :
■3 <0 CO CO 50 f\ 0
ar> cC3 QC3 flD ao q
"This, doubtless, was the origin of the caduceus of
mythology, the head with the body.
320 The Awakening
"Also observe that the head is the receiving station for
every element which enters the body for nourishing and stimu
lating purposes.
"There are twelve openings upon the external surface of
the body, including the dormant navel —these are the twelve
gates of Rev. 21 :21. Seeing and hearing are afferent; smell
ing and tasting are dual.
"The breasts are efferent.
"The navel is dormant.
"The two pelvic openings are efferent in relation to their
excretive functions.
"Respiration unites the head and thorax.
"Nutrition binds together the thorax, the abdomen and
pelvis.
"Thus are your waves vindicated.
"Vibratory, gaseous, solid and fluid.
"The four basic operations are clearly defined as inspira
tion, respiration, assimilation and elimination.
"Our attention is drawn to a most significant thing. We
made the larger circle in the illustration of the organs of the
body in our manuscript by using a fifty cent silver coin of
1917. On the face of this coin is the word 'liberty,' beneath
.which is the goddess of plenty with her arms grasping a sheaf
of grain, and the sun casting its rays over the world, as the
'light that quickeneth.'
"What a sarcasm for a government to employ such things,
in view of the abuses of nature by alleged religious bodies
protected and coddled by government.
"I am stealing your thunder, Grub, something which Mer
cury could not steal from Jupiter. But I do not believe Mer
cury could read or write. If he could, one could find some
of his letters in the bla-bla collections of some of our Amer
ican museums.
"I'm going to show you one of my own diagrams using
your wave system, showing some of the Biblical ideas, based
upon the same gnostic philosophy.
The Awakening 321
"It reveals why:
"
'God hath made man upright' (Ecc. 7:29).
Respiratory Animals
En.os = fountain The Lord from
of increase heaven
Tree of Life Tree of Good Fallen Man Ecclesiastic Tree
Creative and Evil Lower
Forces Vegetation Animals Mankind
"An analysis of this leaves little difference between man
and monkey. The root word of both being mon, monna, an
ape. Monu, mind, to think, cognate with os. En-os, son of
Seth, means fallen man. En = fountain of increase, os =
mind, soul. Hence fallen man, subject to temptation, becomes
the source of nourishment of the thinking man, as the fallen
fruit becomes the food of the living animal groveling on the
earth.
"The illustration reveals that God, having made man stand
erect, the temptation to partake of the fruit direct from the
tree is ever before him.
"The lesson intended by Genesis 2:17 is made very plain
in this diagram.
"The first Adam is vegetation, evoluted to the respiratory
322 The Awakening
animal which has partaken of the forbidden fruit. God curses
the ground, and declares Adam shall ever after partake of
his nourishment from its dust, as we here see the animal
eating of the fallen fruit.
"Originally God gave to the man for his food, the 'fruits
having seeds in themselves,' growing upon trees. But, to the
birds and beasts he gave 'every green herb.'
"Now, here is where we find the inverted tree, with the
second Adam, the 'Lord from heaven,' plucking its fruits in
the form of the ring, instead of the globule. This serpent
with his tail in its mouth symbolizing wisdom—gnostic phi
losophy.
"This ring, as we have previously learned, represents the
cumulated wisdom, power, experience and life of the whole
cycle. The waves show the elements it contains and the organs
to which they are distributed. Hence it is made plain that the
first fruit of this sustaining tree of life belongs to God—the
Lord from heaven, the priest.
"Do you now see why the ecclesia means government,
and why the earth means producing mankind?
"Debased humanity was made a source of maintenance
and support for the church and priesthood. Ignorance, op
pression and misery were commercialized.
"The positive evidence of this is in the fact, Enos begat
Cainan, meaning merchandising and trading, and possession.
"See how plain this is:
"Adam, the earth, and Eve, life, produce the vegetation.
This is named Cain.
"Even in the Bible dictionaries the word Cain is defined
as a fabrication, forged instrument. The name Cain does not
appear in Webster's.
"The vegetation evolutes into the respiratory animals.
This they name Seth, meaning compensation, pay.
"Seth has reference to the Egyptian Sothic year, there
fore is a measure of time.
"The compensation, or pay, is in the exchange between
the vegetation and respiratory animals.
The Awakening 323
"The animal inhales oxygen, and exhales carbon dioxide.
"The vegetation inhales carbon dioxide, and exhales
oxygen.
"This is the commerce of Cainan set up between vege
tation and animals, in Abel, the breath, the atmosphere.
"The animal cannot rise to the living fruit of the tree,
therefore nature by gravitation drops the fruit to the earth
inspired with the sense of reproduction. The animal partakes
of the fruit and is inspired with the desire to rise up with the
new tree that it may partake of the fruit directly from the
tree. This aspiration first manifests in the monkey, which
climbs up the body of the tree and appropriates the fruit direct.
"This monkey evolutes into man, who can stand erect and
gather the fruit, and distribute portions of it to the lower
animals, thus avoiding the fate of the lower animal who is
tempted to climb the tree to confiscate the fruit, and falls.
This is the fall of man.
"This is Enos, mortal man, subject to temptation and fall.
"The proof that this has reference to the vegetation is
plain in the naming of the offspring of Enos, Cain-an.
"Cain means, in this figurative system, vegetation; an is
a suffix meaning pertaining to or belonging to. This gives
to Cain possession by contact.
"We may determine, by this, that the ecclesiastic scheme
stole a march on nature by inserting a fake set of waves, which
places vegetation and the lower animals between the creative
waves and themselves, thereby breaking the line of natural
evolution and making the godlike man a special dispensation.
"This was a horrible error. It filled the minds of men
with vain conceit, and made them thieves and robbers, to
prey upon nature. It destroyed the mental trend of man
towards a natural goal, and mankind ran wild.
"The ecclesiasts purposely, and wilfully, placed the greater
mass of humanity back on a level with the dumb, unthinking
animals, by casting the people into a thousand years of ignor
ance, to prevent the common herd from standing erect as men
and partaking of wisdom directly from the tree of nature.
324 The Awakening
That which had been given to men to inspire a progressive
rise to mental perfection, to bring them in direct contact with
the universal wisdom, was ruthlessly snatched away from them
by the most contemptible and abnormal creature ever spawned
upon earth —the ecclesiastical priest, who lives, thrives and
fattens off struggling humanity. This lesion has not been and
may never be mended.
CHAPTER XXX
Grub was waiting in the library for the appearance of the
Doctor. It seemed he was prepared for some emergency.
When the Doctor came in, he at once began :
"Doctor, you remember you requested me to make a
memorandum, which would recall, at a suitable time, the sub
ject of mythology, as an element in the exploitation of the
ecclesiastic scheme. I am ready to take this up, if it pleases
you. I am sure you will be greatly edified to learn that, after
all, mythology is but a romantic exploitation of a knowledge
of astronomy, and its personification
is,
practically, the founda
tion of the christian structure."
"I am pleased to have you bring up the subject, Grub.
I
have nothing particular to offer this morning. There
is
always something fascinating about both, mythology and as
tronomy."
"Well," began Grub, "we are both interested in identify
ing the 'image and likeness' man, for that will, naturally,
identify the God who made him.
"I shall assume that the God who made the earthy man
is
a
cosmic being, and that our knowledge of our immediate
planetary system reveals him.
"The essential elements in this picture are: the central
sun, the eight planets and their moons —and especially the
asteroidal belt.
"In 1772, Professor Bode announced
a
peculiar law for
ascertaining the relative distances of the planets from the sun,
even to anticipating Uranus and Neptune, which allegedly
had not then been discovered. But the most wonderful thing
about his discovery was, he declared
a
planet should be found
between Mars and Jupiter, its chemical number corresponding
with Silicon 28. He was later vindicated by the discovery of
the asteroids at that point.
"Doctor,
I
have named the asteroidal belt the carbon bone
325
326 The Awakening
of the planetary man, and it specifically corresponds with our
carbon wave, and it very materially helps to solve our problem.
"The asteroidal belt separates the planets into inner and
outer bodies, as follows :
Neptune—son of Saturn, god of the sea.
Q Uranus —heaven, son of the earth, moon prin
ciple.
^^^^^^^^c
Saturn —Cronus, father time, father of Jupiter.
Jupiter—God of heaven and earth, father of
gods and men.
The asteroidal belt —the planetary bone.
@ Mars—the water planet, god of tempest, strife,
war.
no Earth—the producer, producing humanity.
Venus —mother of love, protector of commerce.
Mercury—god of commerce, protector of ras
cals and thieves.
Q The Sun—the ever-existent one, the sustainer.
"Waters mean peoples, and a multitude of laws.
"The asteroidal belt is the firmament.
" 'And God made the firmament, and divided the waters
which were under the firmament from the waters which were
above the firmament, and it was so.
"And God called the firmament heaven' (Gen. 1:7, 8).
Heaven means government.
"It is peculiar, that the four outer planets, by their descrip
tions, are recognized as spiritual bodies, and the inner plan
ets are material, showing an extraordinary knowledge of mod
ern astronomy, which believes that all the inner planets are
solid bodies, and the planets external to the asteroids are
gaseous.
The Awakening 327
"Now, this could be derived from no other source but
from the gnostic philosophy, and it has been doled out to
modern humanity, thus concealed in romantic symbolism.
"The parents of Mercury were Jupiter and Maia, the
goddess of growth.
"Jupiter and Maia are equated with Joseph and Mary.
"Maia, Maya, Mara, Maria, Myrrha, Miriam and Mary,
are all one, and are derived from Mer, the sea, and they
all mean rebellion and troubles.
"Jupiter and Jehovah are one.
"Ju = Juda—the Jews.
"Piter = Peter, pater, papa, pope.
"St. Peter and St. Patrick are derived from the same
root word —pater, father, priest.
"Joseph = Jo = increased; sepher = numbers.
"Abraham= ab = father, ra = the sun, ham = hot.
"The hot sun, the father of us all (Rom. 4:16).
"Maia is associated with Pan.
"Pan means all, universal. Catholic means universal.
"Juno, queen of heaven, daughter of Cronus.
"Ju — Jehovah, no = place —place of Jehovah.
"Ops, mother of Juno.
"Juno was the mother of Mars and the wife of Jupiter.
She is the church.
"Ju-piter is the Jews and St. Peter.
"Jesus —Je = ever existing, sus = sustainer.
"Christ is cognate with Sophia, wisdom.
"Sophos, Greek for wisdom.
"Christ and Sophia both stand for incarnated wisdom.
"Christ declares: 'I am the door.'
"He exclaimed to the lawyers:
"
'Ye have taken away the key to knowledge.'
"Thus it is admitted knowledge existed and was sup
pressed.
"Sophia, the virgin of light, is traced to:
"Ophis, the light of the living.
"Oph-elia means serpent, symbol of wisdom.
328 The Awakening
"You remember our examination of magnetism, and how
we found that the christians suppressed it because it en
croached upon the fabulous healing powers of Christ, but
Mesmerism was secretly introduced.
"When we analyze the word Mesmerism we find, again,
the cunning intrigue of the church.
"Mes = Meso, meaning middle, medium, mediator.
"Mer means the sea, Mary, the church.
"
'There is one God, and one mediator, between God
and men, the man Christ Jesus' (1 Tim. 2:5).
"
'Jesus went about healing all manner of sickness and
disease among the people' (Matt. 4:23).
"Do you see, now, the necessity for the suppression of
magnetism ?
"Magnetism, hypnotism and mesmerism are equivalent
in principles.
"A peculiar form of hypnotism, developing hysteria, is
the very essence of christian conversion.
"It manifests a kind of dementia, which often terminates
in insanity.
"Necessarily, superstition and fear are the secret agents
to beget faith. The so-called charity of the church merely
collects from Peter to pay Paul.
"St. Peter merely symbolizes the congregation.
"Paul means the church worker, and the grave.
"But now, Doctor, we are drawing near to the end of
our story.
"Mythology reveals the truth.
"Christianity is nothing more nor less than a romantic
novel, involving the gnostic astronomy and philosophy, in an
elaborate system of symbols, and personifications, concealed
in a secret ecclesiastical code.
"Moreover, the work does not attempt to extend its
knowledge beyond our visible, planetary system, with the
sun as the central body, it works outward, thereby admit
ting the law, that, all expanding bodies grow outwardly.
"Applying this idea to the products of this earth, the
The Awakening 329
sun is made the external source of all planetary force, and the
earth is made the central spiral. Hence we find the ecclesi
astical system appropriating to its exclusive purposes the waves
between the sun and the earth, and reversing these waves
in the development of an earthy system, as an image of the
heavenly. Therefore, the only place we may look for this
image is to examine the physical productions upon the face
of this earth.
"In the intervening space, between the sun and the aster-
oidal belt, there are four orbital planes, and in each plane
may be found a planet, which are, in their order, from the
Sun, Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars.
"These respond to our waves.
Sun Mercury Venus Earth Mars Asteroids
"It is at once seen that the asteroids represent mixture
and confusion, which first arose in the development of life
upon this earth, out of which arises Jupiter Q^^^^^a^
Saturn
e^^^^^^ , and Uranus,
Q concealed govern
ment; the church, and heaven.
"Heaven means nothing, nothingness.
"It is a good joke that God says:
"
'I am the beginning and the end.'
"This all begins in nothing and ends in nothing."
"Grub," said the Doctor, "you have presented a remark
ably clear and understandable case. I am much pleased. But
will you more elaborately define the word heaven. It is the
first thing God made, and both mythology and the ecclesi-
asts begin their systems with heaven and earth."
"The code very definitely proves the absurdity of both
systems, in fact, frankly acknowledges their fraudulent char
acter," said Grub.
"He is merely the masculine prefix to aven, meaning
330 The Awakening
nothing or nothingness. The analysis of the word nothing
is quite sufficient.
"Nothing means, not anything, of no service, of no force
to bind or oblige, false and groundless, no divine power.
"And this is the heaven.
"The code significance of heaven is ecclesiastic govern
ment. Therefore, ecclesiasticism condemns itself, by its own
secret code, as guilty of fraud and false-pretense.
"It attempted to conceal the truth that it organized, in
secrecy, the ecclesia, a form of government control, before it
introduced the church as its shield.
"The first ten words in the Bible are quite sufficient to
condemn the whole system.
"First, the original manuscript, from which the book
was translated, used the plural form, the gods created the
heavens and the earth.' This was deliberately and fraudu
lently translated in the singular, 'God' and 'heaven.'
"Secondly, the ecclesiasts knew they were planning a
conspiracy against mankind and its civil governments.
"Heaven means ecclesiastical government, earth means
producing humanity."
"That clears that up," said the Doctor.
"Continuing, Grub said :
"Now listen to this, Doctor, and blush for humanity,
because of its childish credulity:
"
'God came from Teman, and the holy one from Mount
Paran' (Habakkuk 3 :3).
"This is the most amazing confession found in the Bible,
corroborating, as it does, that the origin of the whole scheme
was in the early, monastic orders of militant monks of Egypt.
Ecclesiasticism was compelled to adopt these hellish orders
by absorption, to suppress them.
"Teman means the desert.
"Paran means "the places of caves.
"Jesus allegedly was born in a cave.
"Mount means a school.
"Do you remember the monks of Nitria in Egypt?
The Awakening 331
"Nitra is cognate with nitre — the salt petre of com
merce, a cleansing power. St. Peter is salt petre, in the sense
of the cleansing power of the church. The alleged purpose
of the church is to cleanse humanity of its sinfulness. The
idea is derived from the purging by salts. Josiah began to
purge Jewery (11 Ch. 34:3).
"Josiah means the fire of the Lord. Fire means judg
ments.
"In the code, salt means wisdom, and gospel doctrines.
"God, then, came from the burning desert.
"'For our God is a consuming fire' (Heb. 12:29).
"Jesus, the holy one of God (Luke 4:34) is also the holy
one of Israel (Is. 37:23), born of monkish meditations in the
caves of Paran. Teman was the eldest son of Esau.
"Now we are seeing the light.
"God is of the line of the eldest son of Esau, therefore,
God also is a man. Jesus is of the line of the younger twin,
Jacob. Israel, the church of Christ. Ab-ra-ham, the high,
hot sun, is the father of all (Rom. 4:16).
"Paran, the place of caves, is surrounded : on the north
by Canaan—merchandising and trading; on the south by the
desert of Sinai—ambush and enmity; on the west by Etham
—strength, sea and troubles ; on the east by Arabah —the des
ert, mixture of peoples. El-Paran means the caves of first
cause.
"Now, Doctor, we are ready to check off the whole chris
tian scheme as the merest bunc.
"This frank confession of its earthy and carnal origin
is quite sufficient to condemn
it.
We must examine this
closely later.
"Eli means God, and
I
believe that Phaz
is
cognate with
Pashur, meaning freedom, the head of
a
priestly family, 'chief
governor in the house of the Lord' (Jer. 20:1) who impris
oned Jeremiah.
"Jeremiah declared that Pashur's true name, given him
by the Lord, was Magor-missabib, which means fear every
where. Eli-phaz was the son of Esau, earthy producing hu
332 The Awakening
manity, and Esau was the twin brother of Jacob the supplanter,
the usurper, who swindled Esau out of his heritage.
"Right here we have the true origin of the christian
church as a game of graft.
"
'Jacob vowed a vow, saying, if God will be with me
and will keep me, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment
to put on, then shall the Lord be my God.
" 'And of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give
the tenth unto thee' (Gen. 28:20, 22).
"The place where this bargain with the priesthood was
made was named by Jacob, Bethel, meaning the house or
church of God.
"Preceding this bargain, the place was known as Luz,
meaning separation.
"This was the absorption of the monastics by the ecclesia.
"Esau was given the name Edom, meaning the hairy
Horites living in Mt. Seir, the hairy cave dwellers. Mount
means school —the school of the monastics.
"Jacob becomes Israel, meaning the church of Christ.
"Thus we see how Jesus comes out of the line of Jacob
— Israel.
"Why Israel?
"Is = light, ra = the sun, el = first cause.
"The light of the sun is the first cause.
"The monks went to the desert believing it was nearest
the sun.
"Jesus declares:
'"I am the light of the world' (John 8:12).
"'A teacher from God' (Jno. 3:2).
"Light means knowledge, enlightenment.
"
'The light of Israel shall be for a fire' (Is. 10:17.
"I find, Doctor, that this far-reaching organization has
appropriated and made use of not only the visible things of
heaven and earth, but also the established things of the na
tions, and have duly coded them.
"Government —rule, authority.
"Commerce—trading together.
The Awakening 333
"War—embroilment.
"Agriculture—cultivating the field.
"Education —not coded.
"That's all, Doctor. I'm. done."
"Huh!" grunted the Doctor. "And we are no nearer
to a universal mental contact than when we started."
"Why, Doctor, we could not exist as living, breathing
creatures, were we not constantly in direct mental contact
with the external world, and that is the universal world.
Contact is the simplest part of
it,
to know and to understand,
that
is
the great goal of living, thinking, reasoning beings.
Mankind has been blinded and guided away from the natural
paths leading to wisdom and knowledge. The church never
intended that the common, producing masses should become
enlightened or learned beyond the necessities of their trades,
hence, education
is
not found in the ecclesiastical code. For
a
thousand years
it
meant death to attempt to gain knowledge.
"When we cast seeds into the earth or plant a tree, we
tenderly cultivate, water and care for them until they bear
fruits, and become useful to us.
"Christianity, to the contrary, in dealing with humanity,
boasts of the opposite course.
" 'And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord
thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble
thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart,
whether thou wouldst keep his commandments or no.
" And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger'
(Deut. 8:2, 3).
"What was this wilderness?
"Let's see what the code reveals: Wilderness means
an uncultivated waste
;
Paran meant also 'the desert of wander
ing,' in ignorance.
"This was the thousand years of ignorance, the 'dark
ages,' and right here we shall get our flash-light on the sur
roundings of the designing cave-dwellers who hatched out the
devilish scheme.
"The 'wilderness' embraces
:
334 The Awakening
"Paran, meaning the place of caves.
"Zin, meaning sin.
"Shur, meaning walls, monastic walls.
"Sinai, meaning ambush, enmity.
"Etham, strength, army, turmoil.
"This is the wilderness of sin into which Christianity
led humanity, to humiliate, tempt and try
it,
and there
is
no
escape from it.
"The only cultivation for humanity at large, recognized
by the church, is:
"
'Either make the tree good and his fruit good
;
or else
make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt; for the tree
is
known by his fruit' (Matt. 12:33).
"This tree
is
mankind (Matt. 3:10; Ps. 1:3).
"This instruction
is
given in the early part of the new
testament.
"From the very beginning of the christian enterprise the
church has never ceased the cultivation of evil in mankind.
It was originally founded upon sin of its own planting. Were
not sin continued there would be no need of
a
church.
"Today, civil governments are aiding and abetting this
hellish scheme by legislating the people into crime. It
is
by
this legislative co-operation we may know that the civil gov
ernment
is
in connivance with the church forces. It was a
premeditated scheme to commercialize crime.
"There
is
no difference between the sale of indulgences
to commit crime, by the church, and the fine for having com
mitted crime, applied by the state.
"Never before, in all history, was crime so rampant as
right now, and never before was the harvest of fines and pen
alties so rich as now."
"Just
a
moment, Grub, hurriedly said the Doctor, as he
searched about for
a
paper. "That word commercialize re
minds me of something important. Ah, here
is
what
I
was
serching for.
"Grub, just as you say. There
is
a
close agreement be
tween the church and civil governments, in relation to the
The Awakening 335
underlying gnostic philosophy, which practically compels them
to stand together, as against the producing masses. Neverthe
less, I believe I have uncovered evidence which proves that
the church is exactly what the Bible says it
is,
a usurpative
interloper in its participation in national affairs, even boasting
of tearing asunder the established nations, meaning thereby
their destruction (Hab. 3:6).
"
'A bridle
is
put into the mouths of the people to cause
them to err' (Is. 30:28; Rom. 3:19).
"Briefly, here
is
my deduction
:
"Originally the idea of a nation, or community of people,
was founded upon
a
gnostic conception of the structure of the
human body.
"Every man
is
a
unit nation, so revealed in the gnostic
wisdom as the microcosm. An assembly of men, associating
themselves together for mutual purposes is
a
kingdom, with
authority as the God-head—the king, the Lord.
"The seat of authority
is
in the head.
"The executive power
is
in the external body.
"The seat of commerce and exchange
is
in the thorax,
as evidenced by respiration.
"The channels of commercial exchanges are the circulat
ing blood and the lymphatics.
"The highest form of circulating medium of exchange
is
the circular discs, the red blood-corpuscles.
"Why did men adopt the golden disc as the highest me
dium of exchange in human transactions?
"This traffic
is
between the inner man and the outer man.
"The seat of production
is
in the abdomen, the products
of digestion, the product for distribution being the leucocyte,
carried to market by the lymphatics. The sales are made to
the different classes of tissues, being brought in contact by the
circulating blood, with the ever greedy pestiferous govern
ment seizing more than its proper share through devious forms
of taxation and graft. Wherever an exchange occurs, may
be found the nerve fibres awaiting
a
rake-off.
"Now, Grub,
I
declare
:
there
is
no place in this normal
336 The Awakening
arrangement for either church or war. They are both intrusive
things. The most amazing thing in science is the harmonious,
peaceful and just exchanges which occur between the ele
mental parts in the human organism.
"The unit man, when left to his own resources, knows
nothing of the horrors of community life ruled by vicious
legislative bodies, secretly controlled by so-called religious
usurpers.
"Do you now understand why the monastic monks sought
the place of caves in the flaming desert?
"The church is an obtrusive and usurpative intruder hav
ing the single purpose to rob and enslave mankind. War,
which embroils nations, is its most deadly weapon.
"In its dishonest code, war means embroilment.
"And now, Grub, we have covered this subject. Let us
prepare a summing up for our next and last lesson."
"Let's make it a review of my pictures," said Grub.
"No. Grub, I do not believe we should yet reveal the ex
tent to which we have broken through the veil. We are not
yet ready to teach. Let the thinking world absorb what we
have revealed.
"I am deeply concerned regarding your automatic rev
elations. This will be a grand subject for future discussion.
"I suggest that we terminate this present work here. I
thought of adding a summing up meeting, but I have changed
my mind."
"Very well, Doctor," said Grub.
