{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__shaftesbury___instantaneous_personal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Instantaneous Personal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
INSTANTANEOUS
PERSONAL MACNETISM
COMBINING AN
ABSOLUTELY NEW METHOD
WITH THE BEST
ESTABLISHED TEACHINGS
OF THE PAST
NOW THE STANDARD WORK OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MAGNETISM CLUB
FOURTEENTH EDITION ENLARGED
1935
By EDMUND SHAFTESBURY
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
3 & 5 QUEEN STREET, MANCHESTER,^
1935 Edition
Copyright, 1935
BY
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
All Rights Reserved
Including the Right of Translation
into other Languages
Printed in Ofeat Britain
THE
TEN GREAT DEPARTMENTS
OF
THIS SYSTEM
I
DEPARTMENT OF MAGNETIC SOURCES
II
DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL MAGNITUDE
III
DEPARTMENT OF THE MAGNETIC EYE
IV
DEPARTMENT OF
INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
V
DEPARTMENT OF MAGNETIC HEALTH
VI
DEPARTMENT OF TENSION ENERGY
VII
DEPARTMENT OF REPOSE AND POWER
VIII
DEPARTMENT OF THE MAGNETIC VOICE
IX
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MAGNETISM
X
DEPARTMENT OF MAGNETIC HEALING
THE ORIGINAL SYSTEM
The following facts should he kept in mind by persons
using other systems of instruction in the Cultivation of
Personal Magnetism :
1. The Shafteshury System was the first to be issued ;
and appeared forty-five years ago when there were no
other systems in existence.
2. To-day it is the Standard Method, and is so recognized
everywhere.
3. It is the only System that is used by the International
Magnetism Club, and that has been adopted in schools and
various other educational institutions.
4. It is the only System that actually produces lasting
results.
5. It is the only System that has helped a long list of
successful men and women in all walks of life to acquire a
magnetic personality with no failure where its students
have been in earnest and ambitious to win the highest goal
of earthly existence.
6. Attracted by its success, imitators many years ago
began to issue cheap and loudly advertised courses of train-
ing, and approached as near as they dared to our methods ;
but, for fear of becoming involved in lawsuits for infringe-
ment, they avoided all the essential value of our instruction,
with the result that they were discredited and all went out
of business.
7. Since then similar imitators are likely to appear,
with the same inability to guide their students to the suc-
cessful acquisition of personal magnetism.
8. As personal magnetism is life itself, only the best in-
struction is desirable. Low priced competitive systems
that accomplish nothing for their students are the highest
priced in the end. Besides producing failure, they dis-
courage the buyers, drive them away from the study and
thereby deprive them of the greatest blessings in life.
9. There is BUT ONE GENUINE METHOD ; it is the
SHAFTESBURY METHOD ; long tried, thoroughly tested,
and uniformly successful.
GREAT MEN WHO HAVE OWED
THEIR SUCCESS TO BOOKS
PITT
owed his success as a statesman to The Wealth of Nations,
by Adam Smith.
WATT
was started on his way as an inventor by a book :
The Elements of Philosophy.
MERCER
the pioneer of the artificial silk trade, was stimulated
to begin his experiments by The Chemical Pocket-Book.
KELVIN
was inspired as a scientist by reading The Theory of Light,
by Fourier.
LEVERHULME
often said that his career was started by Self-Help^ written
by Samuel Smiles.
FARADAY
was started by a book on chemistry.
ORVILLE and WILBUR WRIGHT
were led to invent the aeroplane by reading a book on
gliding, by Lilienthal.
WESTINGHOUSE and FORD
were both started on their careers as inventors by reading
magazine articles.
ANDREW CARNEGIE
owed his success to the reading of books, and built 1600
free libraries. ^
THERE IS NO BETTER AID TO SUCCESS IN LIFE
THAN GOOD BOOKS
INTRODUCTION BY THE PUBLISHERS
APRESENTATION of the causes and progress that
have become history in the unfolding of any great
movement that has lent itself to the betterment of
mankind, is always a source of encouragement and
inspiration to a newer generation. To this end we will briefly
review the important facts that have been interwoven in the
development of the Magnetism Club.
Edmund Shaftesbury to-day is known to about four million
men and women who are studying his works ; yet in the forty
-
five years or more that he has been a teacher, he has refused to
advertise his productions ;
and it is only at the present time
that the publishers who now control his writings have under-
taken to invite a larger following by public advertisements.
His four million students came from the friends and acquaint-
ances of those who had become students in the same way and
who had mentioned these works and spoken of their merits to
bthers. As one instance out of many, a person who owned a
copy of this book of Personal Magnetism and who was spending
a few weeks at a fashionable summer hotel, left the book on a
table for a few days while temporarily absent, and learned that
nearly four hundred other guests had obtained the address of
the publishers, and had ordered the book. In another case a
doctor kept a copy on the table in his waiting-room, and in the
course of time more than two hundred of his patients procured
the address and ordered copies for themselves.
It is gratifying and also encouraging to prospective students
and to those who are about to begin this study, to know that
the BOOK ITSELF IS MAGNETIC !
A very capable, clever, successful but strictly honest business
man who was told that this system was in itself full of mag-
netism, refused to believe the claim, and said,
"
I will pay one
hundred pounds to the author if he can induce me to buy
the book." The following questions were put to this business
man :
"
Will you decide the matter as an honest man without
8 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
any quibble ?
" "
Yes."" Will you take time to read the
book carefully ?
" "
Yes."
"
If, after reading it, you find
that its value to you is fully a thousand times more than its
cost, will you then buy it ?
" "
Yes." In a short time a
cheque for one hundred pounds was his answer.
It is not only encouraging but gratifying to prospective
students to know that the book has a most positive and power-
ful magnetic influence over the lives of those who read or who
study its pages.
And this influence is ennobling, uplifting and inspiring.
Edmund Shaftesbury when engaged in his first literary duties
as reporter for a great daily newspaper, correspondent for
others, writer for magazines, and author of scientific treatises,
as well as teacher and lecturer along these lines all of which
harmonised in the plan he had in mind, was brought in contact
with many great personages, and had the opportunity of analys-
ing the causes of their greatness. No man that ever lived pos-
sessed a keener insight into the problems of life ;
and we have
never heard of any person who was gifted with so great an
analytical power of the causes, natural and acquired, that
produced the successful people of the world. He compiled for
his own use in experimentation and study, private biographies
of more than one hundred of the greatest men and women
of two generations ago, all personally acquired by actual
contact with these people. A few only of these names will be
mentioned here, and among them will be included some who
were either close friends or students, or endorsers of the training
systems created by Shaftesbury.
These names are published for the sole purpose of giving
encouragement to new pupils and of arousing in them the latent
impulses of ambition to aim high in the purposes of life in the
belief that nobje examples are truer guides than the allurements
of unfulfilled hopes.
To name a few, we find the following great personages among
many others :
CHARLES BRADLAUGH, the famous orator of convincing
personal magnetism.
JOHN BRIGHT, leading statesman and convincing orator.
CHARLES STEWART PARNELL, for many years a
masterful man, and successful leader in the Irish cause.
INTRODUCTION 9
WILSON BARRETT, regarded in his day as the most mag-
netic of actors. By his personal magnetism he was able to
hold his audiences thrilled until after midnight in his rendition
of the unabridged play of Hamlet, which no other actor in
our memory had essayed. Mr. Barrett purchased every book
by Shaftesbury, and eagerly sought these systems of education
on his annual visits to Shaftesbury'a native town.
REV. CHARLES HADDON SPURGEON, well remembered
as the most magnetic preacher in the last century of English
history. By his personal magnetism he built up a following
that took him from his humble beginning at Waterbeach to the
great Tabernacle where many thousands constantly crowded in
order to hear him. Later in his career he organised classes of
young men studying for the ministry, and proclaimed the two
greatest facts in this profession :
first, that the right kind of a
prayer is always answered ;
and that every successfuTpreacEer
must; develop tBe power of personal magnetism.
HON. WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE, the great Prime
Minister, whose personal magnetism won for him the highest
honours in the gift of the nation. He not only possessed the
Shaftesbury works, but, at the solicitation of Queen Victoria,
presented her with one of them that she admired. These facts
were published at the time.
Other names here listed are but a very few of the many
that might be included, but are omitted for lack of space.
BENJAMIN F. BUTLER, of very magnetic personality,
in whose office Shaftesbury when a young man spent two
years.
JOHN A. LOGAN, an intensely magnetic orator and states-
man, as well as successful warrior.
LAWRENCE BARRETT, associated with Edwin Booth at
one time.
JOHN B. GOUGH, one of the most energetic of all lecturers
and platform orators, a personal friend of Shaftesbury.
CARDINAL GIBBONS, one of the greatest dignitaries of his
church, whose personal letter in approval of the Shaftesbury
systems was published for many years in a university catalogue.
ARCHBISHOP JOHN J. KEANE, personal friend of Shaftes-
bury, who nearly forty years ago when at the head of a well-
known university engaged him as instructor, and afterwards
10 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
in an open letter recommended his books, which letter was
published for many years.
ALEXANDER MELVILLE BELL, with whom Shaftesbury
collaborated in certain writings. His son was the inventor of
the telephone.
DWIGHT L. MOODY, the most magnetic of evangelists
and yet a quiet and impressive speaker as compared with other
orators. He organised great classes of Bible students and young
preachers, and extolled the value of magnetism.
BISHOP JOHN PHILIP NEWMAN, the greatest and most
magnetic of pulpit orators in his day next to Beecher. He was
not only a friend of Shaftesbury, but did him the exceptional
honour of seeking his personal instruction.
BISHOP PHILLIPS BROOKS, student of Shaftesbury's
works while yet a leader in the Episcopal Church. His ap-
proval of these works was published in the form of a letter
nearly forty years ago, in which he called them the
"
new
education.
"
HENRY WARD BEECHER was in the front rank of pulpit
and platform oratory in the period in which he lived, and for
the successful use of a winning personal magnetism he had no
equal. He was pre-eminent in swaying the minds of thousands,
rising from one range of magnetism to another ;
his genius
always rising with him ;
for magnetism and genius are insepar-
able. We have seen him while facing an adverse and hostile
audience spend an hour or more in his efforts to get a fair
hearing, and eventually end the discourse with the same
audience rising and cheering him to the echo. These incidents
are stated to make clear the fact that there is such a power as
personal magnetism, and that it can overcome all obstacles
and break down all barriers. In the years 1875 and 1876, when
Beecher was instructing classes in theology in a university at-
tended by Shaftesbury, a strong friendship sprang up between
the two, one a world-famous orator, the greatest of his times,
and the other a young man seeking the secrets of greatness.
From the quiet little prayers at a rude table in a plain room
up to the sublime heights of the loftiest oratory, in voice, man-
ner and presence this remarkable man lived in an atmosphere
of personal magnetism that thrilled and inspired those who
came under its influence ; and, as far as the author of these
INTRODUCTION II
books was permitted to analyse the sources of this power, it
came from a natural possession of gifts that sprang from laws
that are within the reach of most men and women.
As we have said, it is our purpose to create in every student
of this system the ambition to succeed in life ;
and we know the
value of high examples and past triumphs. Nothing stimulates
the desire to win in the battle of existence so much as the
history of past achievements. It is also of prime importance to
make known the fact that Shaftesbury created his opportunities
for discovering the underlying causes and secrets of success in
the lives of great men. By association and study he became
eminently fitted to develop just such a course of training as
would employ the laws of magnetism in his unfolding of these
gifts in his students.
Another fact that is of still greater importance is the re-
ception given his methods by the greatest men and women of
his time. It was said of his first edition of the book of Personal
Magnetism that, if it were left as by accident in any public
place, a single copy would in a few months attract the casual
attention of readers, and so bring a demand for a large number
of copies, each one of which would exert a similar influence,
and this in time would account for the building up automatically
of a following of four million readers without a single line of
public advertising.
What was the reception given him from the beginning ?
He was overrun with applicants for his personal instruction.
Now it is a fact that as much value can be obtained from the
books as from personal teaching ;
for the latter consists solely
of the statement in lecture form of the laws and processes by
which personal magnetism can be acquired. He made this
fact known ; yet thousands within reach insisted on individual
instruction. In his personal teaching he numbered, among
others, Cabinet Ministers, Judges, Industrial Magnates, Famous
Business Men, Financiers, Members of Society, Lawyers, High
Dignitaries of the Church, and almost every class of professional
people.
Now we come to the most encouraging fact in this
introduction.
Omitting all those persons who came in person to him
for lessons, and looking only to those men and women who
12 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
- v>
secured their help solely from his books, we find the following
results :
MINISTERS. Records furnished by persons in a position
to know the facts, tell us that up to a recent period, but in-
cluding the years long gone by, no less than 2781 clergymen of
small churches working at low salaries, by the development of
personal magnetism rose to eminence, step by step, going from
place to place, always up, up, up, improving themselves, doing
more effective work, winning greater compensation, and accom-
plishing greater good in the world. The value of these records
is in the fact that these clergymen acknowledge the power of
this system of study as the cause of their success ; practically
all of them admitting that without it they would still be in the
same old rut where so many of their fellow-clergymen have been
for a third of a century. And there are thousands of other cases
of which we have received no record.
LAWYERS. We teach that lawyers must win the confidence
of the public by strict honesty and fairness of dealing ; must
win^cpnMence in themselves ;
and then must develop and
employ the natural habits of
personal magnetism that bring
these two influences together ;
and on this triple alliance must
build the highest efficiency. Reports from 7793 lawyers who
began in the humblest station in their profession, and who spent
years in the struggle for existence, show that every one of them
rose to the very heights of success, hundreds of them becoming
great leaders, winning fame and wealth.
DOCTORS. Every highly successful physician and surgeon
needs a large fund of well developed and finely controlled
personal magnetism. This is not hypnotism, but is the exact
opposite of hypnotism. The latter deadens, depresses, deals
with abnormal nerves, and helps only in certain classes of
pernicious or vicious maladies. Personal magnetism builds
life, is open, uplifting, brightening and cheering. Reports from
12,624 doctors who have studied oiirjworks solely by themselves,
and who have put thorn into practice, acknowledge that our
system has been one of the causes of their rise out of mediocre
conditions to the highest success in their profession. Countless
others in the past forty-five years have undoubtedly accom-
plished great results from the same aid, but have failed to tell
us so.
INTRODUCTION 13
DENTISTS. The really great dentists of the world have
feet nerve control not in their charges merely, but in their
nipulation of the delicate instruments required in doing fine
rk. Here is one letter which is very much like another that
published many years ago :
"
The book of personal mag-
ism does much more than is claimed for it. In fact it would
> be possible to state its full value, nor a tenth of it. That
nsists that every student shall acquire perfect nerve control
one of its great merits in my profession. Your book has
much improved my skill that this alone is worth many
idreds of pounds to me in increased income/' But this is
y an incidental part of the training. Yet there have been
tdonable schools for young ladies that have employed this
ise and one other, namely, perfect goise
of manner, as aids
3tn elegant training. Still these are incidentals only.
BUSINESS MEN AND WOMEN. The law of supply and
nand keeps many ugly-mannered business men alive ;
but
i competitive world, where customers may exercise a choice
their dealings, the most effective drawing power is that of
sonal magnetism, adapted, of course, to the channels of these
ivities. One must know jvhat to use and how tojise it in
h division of life. It seems beyond belief that, in the past
by-five years, more than four hundred thousand persons en-
;ed in business have reported newly acquired success which
y have acknowledged to be due to this study as set forth
fche present book and its similar predecessors. And there
, vast army of clerks and employees who have risen steadily
)heir positions, until a great majority of them have become
ployers. Here we have the real value of personal magnetism.
SOCIAL LIFE is a great field for the exercise of the powers
attraction. Men and women have learned that assumed
jetness, gentleness and kindliness are misfits ; they are a
ieer that rubs off when least expected to do so. A young
nan or young man who possesses the actual charm of personal
gnetism, even if poor or less expensively attired than others,
[ not be ignored or treated with indifference. This is one of
reasons why certain phases of this study have been regularly
ght in fashionable schools for the training of girls in social
iduot. There is much herein that is sure to benefit any
dent who aspires to social qualities and charming manners,
14 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
regardless of the usages of good form which belong to other
lines of training, not included in this work.
The present system has for many years been recognised as
the standard work of its kind. This prominence comes from its
genuine merit as a training method ;
its adherence to the
practical usefulness of the system ;
and to its unfailing help-
fulness to every student of its pages. In dealing with hundreds
of thousands of students we have never yet met with any
totally dissatisfied person.
Having thus set forth the history of this system from its
inception and having presented the great names that inspired
the author to undertake the formation of a method that was
sure to help humanity beyond that of any other influence in
life, we will now let him speak for himself in the forthcoming
lessons.
One prediction is to be made at this stage :
Since it is true that this book itself is charged with the
power of magnetism, we venture to assert that a single reading
of its pages will not only draw the reader to it in an inseparable
partnership, but will also in itself and of itself have aroused in
such reader a very marked degree of acquired personal mag-
netism. This is saying much ;
but wait and note the result.
One reading of this work will effect a complete and revolu-
tionary change in the reader.
The reader hereof will see life differently, will understand
life better, will grasp the meaning of countless influences that
work for and against success in the activities of existence, and
will acquire a keen perception into human nature, and interpret
human motives more accurately. If a single reading of this
book will accomplish so much, what is to be said of the adoption
of the simpler principles ;
what of the adoption of the deeper
teachings ;
what of the absorption of the grand truths that
crown the work ?
In these inquiries we are anticipating the lessons that follow ;
but it is our purpose to present in intensive form the great
powers of the system.
Three great merits have uniformly won success :
1. The lessons meet the mental equipment of the most highly
cultured men and women, and yield to them unlimited pleasure
and profit.
INTRODUCTION 15
2. The same lessons are so written and prepared that they
can be just as easily mastered by the average man or woman as
by the most highly educated.
3. Owners of this system of training very quickly found
that they could acquire personal magnetism, and could make
practical daily use of it as if it were born naturally in them ;
and by its use could achieve the most pleasing and gratifying
success in all departments of life.
16 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
THE DRIFT OF LIFE
BY EDMUND SHAFTESBURY
1. SOURCE OF MAGNETISM.
Sweetly the morning sunlight,
Climbing the mountain high,
Poured down its gold-beams slanting
Like a pathway from the sky ;
And along this highway gleaming,
Came the spirit of one we love ;
Our home to bless
In this wilderness,
It came from heaven above.
2. PASSING OPPORTUNITY.
Swiftly the day advancing
Sped like the sunshine by ;
While the glowing orb of heaven
Flooded the noon-tide sky.
The rose grew wild on the mountain,
The bee sipped the honeyed flower,
And down the vale
The lily pale,
Nodded the fleeting hour.
3. LOST.
Gently the evening sunlight
Touched the horizon's bar,
Reaching the sea eternal,
Lighting the land afar.
And down the gold-beams slanting
Like a pathway to the sky,
On pearls of light,
Through the gateway bright,
It passed to the realm on high.
DEPARTMENT OF
MAGNETIC SOURCES
LESSON ONE
THE DRIFT OF LIFE
HUMANITY
is hemmed in by so many influences
that, from time immemorial, no real effort has been
made to gain control of the impulses that run loose
in the world. It has been, and still is, easier to let things
go as they will rather than exert the will to direct them. But
the dividing line between success amlTaflure is found at that
stage where aimless drifting ceases.
We are all creatures of emotions, passions, circumstances and
accident. What the mind will be, what the heart will be, what
the body will be, are problems that are shaped to the drift
of life, even when special attention is given to any of them.
If you will sit down and think for a while you will be surprised
to know how much of your life has been mere drift.
Look at any created life, and see its effort to express itself.
The tree sends its branches toward the- sunlight ; struggles
through its leaves to inhale the air ; and, even underground,
sends forth its roots in search of water. This you call inanimate
life ; but it represents a force that comes from some source and
goes to some equilibrium.
Man is a higher animal, and animal life is a higher vegeta-
tion. There are more millions of flesh cells in your body than
your mind could conceive or your pencil could write in figures,
yet not one of these cells originated otherwise than in a
vegetable, nor could it have originated but for some force that
existed in and o the^ ceU itself.
*
We propose to call this force mere energy, and you may give
2
18 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
it any scientific name you please. It has been named by
various investigators, but the terms used do not help the student
to understand it any the better. In fact, whenever a new book
is written, the author, believing that his invention of a few
hundred scientific words will establish a new science and draw
all students to his feet, loads the volume with long and un-
bearable terms until its interest sinks with its weight. Once
in a while a short, simple word is necessary to the explanation
of a new idea ;
but the disposition of scientific writers to invent
hundreds and thousands of long technical terms has loaded
their special literature with an incubus that for the most part
throttles it.
There is no place on this globe where energy is jiot found.
The air is so loaded with it that in the cold north the sky shines
in boreal rays ;
and wherever the frigid temperature yields to
the warmth, the electric conditions may alarm man. Water is
but a liquid union of gases, and is charged with electrical,
mechanical and chemical energies, any one of which is capable
of doing great service and great damage to man. Even ice, in
its coldest phase, has energy, for it is not subdued, nor even
still ;
its force has broken mountain rocks into fragments.
This energy about us we are drinking in water, eating in food
and breathing in air. Not a chemical molecule is free from
it ;
not an atom can exist without it. We are a combination of
individual energies.
REASON OF UNMAGNETIC CONDITIONS
The plant is a collection of individual energies, without the
power to unite the forces they represent, except in its general
life. Man is a similar collection with the power and sometimes
the habit of so uniting the individual energies within him ;
but
he has the possibility of educating and training this power.
If we can be understood at this step it will help along
the work of the present volume both in your understanding
of it and your practice of its exercises. In the first place your
body, whether living or dead, is a collection of millions and
millions of little energies that can never die. In the
second place these energies are separate and individual ;
al-
though at times they act in some degree of harmony. In the
THE DRIFT OF LIFE 19
third place the human body is a drifting mechanism of life,
capable but not accustomed to control the forces within it,
except as habit, will, cultivation or special excitement may
marshal these forces to the accomplishment of some important
end. We are satisfied from many experiments and from the
reports of a host of pupils that this power of marshalling and
using these energies can be, in every person, cultivated^ to a
high degree. To do so much as this, the pupil must study and
practise.
You drift day after day.
The air, sunlight, food and water you take, are agents of a
force that comes from the sky and earth. You idly float upon
the tide of circumstances to make up your day's life, and the
opportunities of being something better than you are drift
beyond your reach and pass away.
There are three classes of persons who will undertake the
study of this work :
First. Those who, through curiosity, or as incredulous in-
vestigators, pursue the study with hesitation and indifference.
Second. Those who commence with enormous zeal and de-
termination to succeed, and devote every spare moment to it for
a few days, or weeks, and then suddenly cool off. This is a
large class, and they have had their ardour as suddenly cool off
in a hundred other undertakings before.
Third. Those who commence deliberately and work and
wait patiently, plodding along in the dark for some time ;
but
persisting until the light dawns upon them. When the light
does come it seems to break all at once. They possess that rare
faculty called application.
The last-named class will achieve success. The other two
will accomplish something of value in every minute they devote
to it. Out of the very many exercises of the book there is not
one which is not of great value. And this value is always
practical and useful.
When the subject was first being systematized for study,
there was no intention to connect it in any way with benefits
to the health ;
but it was found that every new habit produced
good results in that line. Therefore, while not claiming or
laying stress upon the fact, we find the following to be always
true of this special training :
20 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
1. It promotes a healthy blood circulation.
2. It invigorates the whole body.
3. It builds a good brain-power.
4. It makes perfect nerves, overcoming nervous prostration.
HOW MUCH TIME WILL IT TAKE ?
This is the question that everybody asks. Let it be answered
by asking how much time does it take for one who is naturally
gifted with personal magnetism to acquire or to hold the power ?
It takes no time at all. When the singer whose voice is getting
worse is told that there is an artistic position in which the vocal
organs may be maintained in order to improve the tones by
the mere act of using, he needs no more time to sing with
those organs in their proper place than to sing with them out
of place. This is the whole secret of magnetism-growth. How
long will it take a young lady to write a letter, spelling her
words correctly, as compared with the time required to write
the same letter, spelling the words incorrectly ?
You will now begin to catch the secret of our course of in-
struction. Yet some routine work must be done. This will
be found to be agreeable and full of pleasant experiences. Our
earlier instruction kept the student down to severe labour with-
out much relief, and while the progress was rapid, it has been
found that even more speedy results are obtainable by the use
of the natural vitality that daily loses itself in the drift of life.
Where the waters of Niagara rush to seek their quietude in the
volume of the lake below, the building of steam engines where
Nature's forces are mightier than man's inventions, would be
the adoption of the lesser for the greater. For endless time
there has run to waste in that one region more power than was
needed to run all the machinery of the country.
In like manner each individual carries in his own body and
loses daily through drifting habits more energy than the most
magnetic man or woman that ever lived needs to give absolute
supremacy to active life. It is true that we can acquire power
by building the steam engine on the banks of Niagara, and that
the steam so employed is a natural force, as gravity is ;
but
economy prefers to use the power that is at hand awaiting man's
bidding, rather than go to the trouble of generating it in less
THEDRIFTOFLIFE 21
quantity and energy. The work before us is to acquire the
most satisfactory results in the briefest time and with the least
effort.
Very recently the author put into practice with novices and
others a certain regime which at once gave the most gratifying
results in each and every case. It was the first instance in
which the energy known as personal magnetism had been
brought into active existence at the start.
This present work includes a new method of presenting the
same facts and laws that have always existed ;
but with this
advance in the plan of teaching is found all the instruction from
past works. Nothing has been eliminated, while many new
aids to this study have been added.
What were mere exercises are now established as daily habits.
This renders the study much more interesting and really more
effective. An exercise, once it is over, is laid aside. A habit is
grafted on the mind and nervous system until it becomes a part
of the general conduct of a person.
In the whole scope of the training there is not even the merest
influence that does not enter into all other departments of life
apart from the development of personal magnetism, as well as
involved in it. It so happens that this characteristic is not
found in any other line of study ;
and the fact that it is so proves
conclusively that magnetism is life itself,
and its uses are merely
forms of existence made still more useful. The reader of these
pages should bear this fact in mind, as the most encouraging
and inspiring stimulus to achieving the mastery of the subject
as herein presented.
An instantaneous subtle influence springs from the first read-
ing of these lessons ;
for it bears the message of the greatest
law of life, that human existence is a art of the general fund
of magnetism that holds sway throughout the universe. This
influence is felt in the very unfolding of the facts that con-
stitute these lessons. It is an old saying that declares that
"
knowledge is power," but it is a true one ;
and never was so
true as in the present study.
No person can read these pages carefully without immediately
gaining the power that comes from knowledge. If
adogtion
anc^ absorption are added to knowledge, the progress is very
rapid.
LESSON TWO
FIRES OF MAGNETISM
WE
SPEAK of people as magnetic in a general way.
For the purposes of the present volume, we shall
class them as having four general tendencies : the
light or beautiful ;
the mental or thoughtful ;
the deep or
dangerous ;
the rich or luxurious.
Each class is as important as any other. We cannot judge
the degree or quality of magnetism by the colour of the eyes,
or the general complexion ;
but the character of the magnetic
fire is more or less influenced by eye-colour.
As a general rule, but by no means a universal one, the dark-
eyed person is the opposite of the grey-eyed ;
and the blue-eyed
of the brown. Brown is the rich verdure of the field over which
the blue sky is spread. Grey is the cold zone of the north or
the morning sky of the east, set against the tropics of the south
or the night-laden sky of the west. Thus the four general
classes are the completed horizon, the earth and the empyrean.
Despite the fact that these influences are crossed and counter-
crossed even in the same individual, and must be separated and
studied apart, likewise in the same individual, there is an under-
current of fixed influence belonging to each class. As such we
will consider them for the present.
The blue-eyed person, when magnetic, is light, happy, cheer-
ful, brilliant, active, quick and even effervescent. The
muscles and the blood express the magnetic force within. When
unmagnetic, the blue eye becomes cold, the nature revengeful,
the plans furtive, and the mind unreasonable in its demands.
The grey-eyed person, when magnetic, is cool, calculating,
steady in nerve and unflinching in muscle. He talks but little
when a purpose is at stake, and looks you coolly in the eye
when you address him. You feel compelled to do all the talking,
FIRES OF MAGNETISM 23
and he does not assist you by a word or a nod. His face never
relaxes into an assent, and so you keep on thinking of new ideas
and expressing them, in the hope that you will be rewarded by
some show of acquiescence. Meanwhile he is looking you
steadily in the eye. A stupid person may seem to do all this,
but he does not.
Stupidity relaxes the musses of the jaw and
draws down the face into a look of perplexity.
The black-eyed person is both dangerous and deep. The eyes
are rarely, if ever, a jet black, unless the pupils are large. The
colour, as a colour, iJnjthe iris, or ring that surrounds the pupil.
In proportion as the nerves are excited this iris opens, and the
cavity behind the pupil shows black on account of its darkness.
Nervous excitability and magnetism have been regarded as one
and the same thing ;
but a black-eyed person in ill-health would
have less magnetism than the blue, brown or grey-eyed person.
Excitability is generally the sign of magnetic weakness. Self-
containment and steadiness of nerve are surer signs of the power.
When a black-eyed person is magnetic, the nature, the eyes, the
expression, the grasp, the very presence suggest warmth ;
when unmagnetic there is a nervous irritability that jars upon
the nerves of all who are near.
The brown-eyed person, when magnetic, is affectionate and
rich in the expression of energy, but finds it very difficult to
hold to a steady purpose, unless fixed habits of life have been
educated by circumstances or trained by practice. Brown eyes
are akin to black in their deepest hue ; but, embracing a score
of shades even to a light hazel, they extend toward their
opposite pole, the blue.
The general philosophy of personal magnetism may be
summed up in a few outlines that present the theoretical
rather than the substantial side of the study.
1 . All human beings belong to one of the following inherited
magnetic temperaments, or to a blend of two or more of them :
(a) THE BEAUTIFUL . . . Blue.
(ft) THE,
(c) THE DEEP ..... Black.
(d) THE AFFECTIONATE . . Brown.
The Blue and Grey may blend ;
the Grey and Light Brown
may blend ;
and the Brown and Black may blend.
24 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The Blue and Black are opposites ; the Blue and Brown are
opposites ;
the Grey and Dark Browns are opposites ;
and the
Grey and Black are opposites.
2. All spontaneous exhibitions of energy must come from
the inherited temperament ;
and the degree of that energy and
its success in dealing with others depends upon the stage of its
i
development. Circumstances are educators of men and women
to a far greater extent than exact training. The so-called gift
of magnetism is always the result of some kind of education.
It is true that the inherited temperament may be cultivated
by exact training such as this volume affords ; but, where we
find it in mature life already established, we may suppose that
the years past have been fraught with circumstances calculated
to bring out the forces within, and to concentrate the individual
energies that make up those forces.
3. All deliberate exhibitions of energy must come from
acquired temperaments ;
or else the deliberation would be
unnecessary. It is most curious indeed to follow out a line of
investigation demonstrating this remarkable law. The acquired
temperaments may be highly cultivated, and are most easily
assumed in opposites.
4. The following table gives a list of the simple uses of this
energy ; and, if you wish, you may accept the belief that these
uses are all unconsciously employed, whether spontaneous or
deliberate ;
that is, the persons who succeed in managing or
controlling others in life's details are unconscious of any
magnetic force at work. The cases stated in this table are
realities taken from the experience of a number of people, and
they represent what is actually occurring everywhere, every
day of the year.
(a) The Beautiful are Muscular.
(b) The Cold are Mental.
(c) The Deep are Nervous.
(d) The Affectionate are Moral.
This table requires explaining or it will be misleading.
The beautiful are magnetic in a muscular way ;
and only so
when they are in their inherited temperament. Now muscular
does not mean big of muscle but active of what muscle they
possess. All beauty is controlled by muscular development.
FIRES OF MAGNETISM 25
The flesh is but a mass of very small muscles, as dissection will
easily prove. The contour of the body, and all the lines and
shapes of beauty are determined by the muscular arrangements
of the flesh. The millions and millions of muscular fibres in
the fleshy masses of the body are at work concentrating their
energies in this temperament when its magnetism is aroused.
The mentality of cold people has nothing to do with the
warmth of the body. It is the steady, far-off, cold ray of an
unflickering light. It is not excitable or impatient. The brain,
and not the muscular system, exerts the temperamental
magnetism ;
and often with quick, unanswerable blows.
In the nervous temperament, the motor and sensor nerves
are all affected. In the affectionate class the moral element
predominates ;
not as a force of superior morality, but as the
seat of magnetic activity. There are good morals and bad
morals, and there are moralising natures, and natures easily
influenced by motives, good or bad, or by inducements to do
right or wrong. All these considerations attach to that class
of people who are affectionate in their magnetic temperaments,
and their activity is in their moral blends of life. Unless this
explanation is early understood, the impression will become
fixed in your mind that the moral magnetic temperament
represents a high degree of rectitude. It is not true that colour
affects the ethical tendencies of the heart.
TABLE OF INHERITED MAGNETIC TEMPERAMENTS
(a)
I
The Beautiful \
Is the Inherited
1 ,,
or
. j Magnetic Temperament of 1 EYES
[ Muscular J I
J
The Cold
I
Is the Inherited
{GREY
'
)
I ,..
r
, I Magnetic Temperament of 1 EYES
[
Mental J I
f The Deep \
Is the Inherited
{BLACK
'
c'
1 ^-r
r
I Magnetic Temperament of 1 EYES
! Nervous J I
J
The Affectionate
|
I8 the Inherited
{BROWN
W I
or
j
Magnetic Temperament of
j
EYES
26 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
INHERITED ACQUIRED
(a) Muscular (may cultivate) Mental, Nervous, Moral.
(6) Mental ^
Muscular, Nervous, Moral.
(c) Nervous Muscular, Mental, Moral.
(d) Moral Muscular, Mental, Nervous.
As the truest, fullest tjjttjon^
rarely expect to find an accomplished person exclusively in jiis
^IffveTemperament.
The distincfions~made in this lesson are intended only as
interesting reading of the underlying influences that are at
work in every life. If they are not understood at first, they will
be found helpful after the study has advanced far enough for
you to have met all classes of people, and to have learned that
no two persons are exactly alike. One of the most pleasing
things in this world is the opportunity for studying character
and temperament in others. By so doing, you will be acquiring
new knowledge, and finding new variations of human experience
that, after all, is the best teacher one could have.
Therefore if you wish to plunge ahead with great rapidity, you
may defer the re-reading of this lesson until you are drawn back
to it by your own magnetism.
Great advantage arises from the practice of making your-
self familiar with people ; seeking to determine their powers of
resistance to the influence of magnetism as related to the eye-
colour. You can easily form the habit of observing the men
and women whom you meet from time to time ; learning from
yourself the answers to the following questions :
1 . Is it true that persons of opposite colour of eyes are more
readily influenced by each other ?
2. Is it true that grey eyes are generally studious, calculating
and cold by nature ?
3. Assuming that man and wife are more contented if they
are interested in the same things in life, does it work out in
experience that the best marriages are founded on the union of
like with like ?
By securing the answers by your observation of people, you
will soon learn to measure them in all other respects.
LESSON THREE
LATENT MAGNETIC ENERGIES
OF
ALL the facts that operate to make our lives
doubtful in their success or failure, is the appalling
ease with which, on some unforeseen occasion, and
in some unexpected and unexplainable manner, we yield
advantages that our better judgment should have clung to
and held in its keeping. In other words we are not always able
to take care of ourselves.
The loss of control is not due so much to our breaking down
after a certain amount of resistance, as to our willingness to
yield. Often our minds are led to think that it is the right
thing to do. Startling propositions
contain elements of con-
viction that rush us to a change of view, almost before we know
it. Let us see what these are.
At the present stage of our study we may regard magnetism
as a central trunk of influence, having four branches ;
each in-
dividual being capable of using, as well as controlled by, any
one or all of the four, although his or her temperament may
prevail in one only. The arrangement is not a scientific one ;
but, being correct in fact and illustrating the true relationship
of life more accurately than science may do in this part of our
study, we are compelled to adopt it.
In every created being there is an aggregation of individual
energies left to drift. They furnish the general basis of power.
When properly excited they become concentrated and, for a
time, are irresistible. So it occurs that many unmagnetic
persons are sometimes
"
aroused," as they choose to call it, and
show a force that had never been credited to them.
The energies of the body that arouse magnetism, show them-
selves very distinctly in one way or another .
The pupil of the eye is not supposed to have colour. It is
28 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
a dark hole, and all dark holes show absence of colour, for
absence of light can have no other result ;
and absence of colour
always means the appearance of black. An orator whose eyes
were a brilliant blue, addressed an audience with eloquent
passion. To the surprise of those who knew him in private
life only, his blue eyes had disappeared ; they were displaced
by great orbs of black. These friends sat directly in front of
him, and were sure of the fact. An actor likewise surprised
some acquaintances ; his grey eyes changing to black.
But then the occurrence is a very common one, although
it may not be observed as often as it transpires. The pupil
of the eye indicates the magnetic condition. When the energy
is lacking or is held in abeyance, the pupil is exceedingly small,
unless the person is subject to abnormal nervous conditions.
The small size of the pupil is due to lack of vitality in the optic
nerve and brain as applied to the eye. The most magnetic
men we have met were accustomed to carry the eyes as though
they were dead ;
the fires slumbered, but had not gone out.
Blue eyes show a large field of blue when the pupils are con-
tracted. So do grey eyes, or those of any colour. But as the
magnetic fire is kindled the field is lessened because the pupil of
the eye expands, the aperture is enlarged just in proportion as
the energy within takes possession of the orb ; and, under great
nervous excitement, the pupil, black, blazing and intense, drives
the curtain widely apart until there is no trace of the iris, and
consequently no colour to the eye. It is jet black.
Under such circumstances the effect is sometimes awful,
especially if the fire is kept within steady control.
Some persons who are able to master the wills of others depend
solely on this power of expanding the pupil of the eye. The
beholder realises that a change is taking place in the character
of the face before him, but he does not analyse its nature. He
may be influenced to a degree that leaves him practically help-
less, yet he is not by any means put into a hypnotic sleep.
It is not possible to hypnotise a person unless there is a
tendency in that person towards catalepsy, which is a morbid
condition of the nerves.
You may take lessons, become an expert, and possess the
full power, yet where are your subjects ? The healthy man or
woman will not permit you to manipulate the senses, nor could
LATENT MAGNETIC ENERGIES 29
you succeed if you were to try. That weakling who is to be
pitied because of a deficient vitality is your only prey. The
triumph is void of honour. The king has conquered a rag doll.
There are schools of hypnotism, but their pupils practise upon
cataleptics, upon diseased people, and, after graduation, they
are powerless, for they have not acquired magnetism. The
latter power is universal. All the world is its teachers, and all
the world its subjects.
What the individual is able to find out for himself will not
be told him by instinct or Nature. God does nothing for
humanity that it is able to do for itself. The life of the race is
made necessary, and the impulses of instinct and desire are
accordingly given first place in the habits and cravings of the
mind and body. With animals below man this rule is reversed.
With them, as with man, gain is sought, but for the purpose
of maintaining life. Every beast, bird and serpent plays some
important part in the plan of existence. Life dies most happily
and most easily in the clutches of other life. The bird that
must end its days in the slow processes of old age suffers many
a month of torture waiting for the end ;
but in the jaws of the
cat or the fangs of the snake it finds a pleasurable release from
the agonies of living ;
an enjoyment that is participated in by
the victim as much as by the devourer.
To effect this purpose it is essential that the bird should be
trapped by a power that paralyses his wings. The chatter of
the cat is done to catch the ear, and thence the eye of the bird.
Magnetism does the rest. Until the bird sees the expanded
pupil of the eye of the cat, it is free ;
but after that it is lost.
The snake likewise draws its prey by the same law. Fish in
the sea are known to hold their victims by a similar use of the
eye. The nobler of the savage beasts, such as the lion, the tiger,
the hyena, and countless others, are all given the magnetic
power as an aid to their purpose of gain.
Ascending still higher up the ladder of animal life we find
that the valuable dog and the spirited horse have the same
power. Without it the supreme qualities of these better
companions of man would be dulled.
In each and every instance where the lower forms of life,
or humanity itself, may be seen to give evidence of the power
of magnetism, the proof is present in the expanded eye-pupil.
30 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
It does not follow that any man or woman can, at will, cause
the eye-pupil to expand, but it is invariably true that the normal
expansion of this part of the eye is the result of excessive
magnetism. The abnormal expansion is due to the nervous
powers running wild ;
the latent energy is let loose and is uncon-
trolled. One is the valued steed obeying the command of its
master ;
the other is the valued steed running away with its
master.
The increase of magnetism leads to the power of expansion ;
but it does not follow that the power is to be always employed.
On the other hand the most magnetic men and women do not
allow this power to manifest itself except when they choose to
call it into use ; they seem to be the very opposites of what
they are, for their eyes are apparently lifeless, and even droop
like those in a half-sleep. They are in a state of resting most
of the time, thus being better prepared for the lightning energy
that may be called forth by some special need.
Outward light expands and contracts the eye-pupil ;
but
this is a mechanical action. The cat closes its iris to a vertical
line, when it is out in the sun ;
but let a bird come near by and
the iris will instantly give way, allowing the pupil to expand so
as to cover the whole area, even in the brightest glare of
sunlight. Here we see the inward power outweighing the out-
ward power.
The authenticated cases of freedom from pain while in the
clutches of savage beasts are too numerous to admit of question.
The hunter who said,
"
I was quite conscious of the tiger's
teeth penetrating my shoulder, but, instead of hurting me, they
seemed devoid of pain," voiced the experience of many others.
The bird suffers nothing while in the jaws of the cat. Some-
thing in the expanded pupils and glaring balls of the captor
has lessened the will of the prey, and the sensation of drowsiness
that follows may deaden the feeling in the nerves.
The power referred to is not only natural, but is as common
as anything in Nature. It is said that a man who faces a
wild animal can hold it at bay by a steadfast gaze^jetjfew
persons are willing^o^depend upon so frail a defence. __The
an energy of power jnJJb_e eye under the present principle. If
of the beast is of a more enduring
LATENT MAGNETIC ENERGIES 31
this
the^ beagt^expects'andJooks for. A qakk^drowsinessJollows,
and fifoon all JR. over.. ThejejreTl^wever,j^ancegJweIl verified
where men have not only withstood the gaze of savag^beas^
buthave actually o>wecLl<Hftrh byjbhe eye, and this in the haunts
of Nature.
The accounts given in this lesson are intended merely to show
the fact that there is in every member of the animal kingdom
a magnetic vitality that needs only to be aroused in order
to manifest itself. Whether it comes as the power to hypnotise
or to magnetise makes little difference in the study of the
latent force, but does make a vast difference in the use made
of it and the results of that use. Instinct teaches animals of
prey to overcome the resistance of their prey after the fighting
is over ;
and the same instinct gives to the victims the relief
from all pain as the compensation of Nature.
The fire that glows in the eyes of the aroused animal comes
from the same source as the intensity that shines in the eyes
of a human being in the exercise of the natural or acquired
gift of personal magnetism. But the uses are different, and
the results of an opposite nature. The only phase of this animal
force that is akin to personal magnetism in man, is in the effort
to overmaster an opponent ;
but all else is mere hypnotism.
Unless a person is a doctor and has to deal with morbid
conditions in a patient, there is never any reason why a man
or woman should practise hypnotism ;
and there are many
reasons why they should not.
Jjtnagine
>
a young man wishing to
win the affections and love of a young lady friend wlio did not
car^~forTnm, arid seeking to put her to sleep in order to gain
Tier consent. TThe whole condition is absurd. I^Or imagine a man
who wishes to sell a piece of land, hypnotising the prospective
buyer and so securing his signature to the agreement. In the
first place, the thing cannot be done in one case in ten thousand,
and if done would not stand the test of a law trial.
Yet on the other hand there are hundreds of thousands of
men and women in this as in any large country who are
unconsciously endowed with the semi-power of hypnotism ;
not one of whom would be willing to have it known that such a
power was possessed, nor would it be believed if urged upon
them as a fact. We have met in the past forty-five years more
32 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
than five thousand doctors who possess this power of semi-
hypnotism. This profession seems to fall into its use naturally ;
and it helps. Almost every patient knows some favourite
physician whose voice and touch are soothing and assuring.
Such a gift is undoubtedly helpful in curing the sick. Talking
with a number of doctors and telling them that they were
employing semi-hypnotic methods, they one and all denied it,
but we proved to quite a number of them that the assertion
was well founded. Other doctors seem to realise that their
presence, voice and touch gave relief and confidence and
imparted soothing qualities to their patients ;
and they agreed
that they had known for a long time that this was true. But
one doctor said rather earnestly,
"
I have never put a patient
into a hypnotic sleep in my life." Nor had he ;
but he had
calmed them, inspired them with confidence in him, and had
given them relief from pain of the body and worry of the mind.
These effects verge closely on personal magnetism, and often
merge into it.
Lawyers who tried this semi-hypnotic power over juries or
courts would achieve nothing. What helps the doctors would
injure the cause of the advocates. Dentists follow the doctors
in this line of influence, and business men make use of both
personal magnetism and semi-hypnotism in their dealings where
they achieve unusual success.
Ministers may become a source of danger if they employ the
semi-hypnotic power ;
but otherwise if they use personal
magnetism. A very remarkable case occurred years ago when
some parishioners of a church made in open meeting the charge
that was repeated in the papers, that one of the ablest and most
successful preachers in the city was resorting unconsciously to
the use of this semi-hypnotic power, both in his sermons and
in his conversations with the members of his congregation.
Following this charge, some reporters attended the church for
several Sundays, and found nothing out of the ordinary. The
preacher had changed his methods, after consulting with an
expert in this line.
After the lapse of several months when the interest had
subsided, we visited the city for a series of Sundays in order to
hear the minister. It seemed that his voice under certain
emotional feelings possessed what is known as HEALING
LAMENT MAGNETIC ENERGIES 33
TONES ;
or such tones as a man or woman who is a natural
magnetic healer employs in effecting cures of maladies that are
not curable under ordinary treatment. These tones are fully
described later on in this work. We had several talks with the
preacher, and found him to be most sincere in his claim that
he did not know he had these semi-hypnotic tones in his voice.
We explained to him what they were, how they were produced;
and how they differed from the ordinary tones of the speaking
voice.
A peculiar fact is that during several visits to the church we
had heard these tones and had recognised them, and at the same
time had noted the effect of their continual use on the members
of the congregation. Of course a drowsy sermon in any drowsy
voice with drowsy ideas will induce natural sleep ; but hypnotic
tones will not do this ; and as they do not go far enough
to bring on actual hypnotic sleep, they bring the hearers into
a widely awakened interest in which their thinking powers
seem to follow closely the thoughts of the preacher, to go and
come with him, and to empty their minds of all else except the
offerings of the preacher.
People who recall the great work done by Mr. Moody and
who heard him repeatedly, may think that he possessed these
tones, and that his success was due to a semi-hypnotic voice.
It is true that he came close to this quality of voice, but still
employed only his power of personal magnetism for his success.
We have seen an audience contribute five thousand pounds
in a benefit meeting, and not for charity, as the result of the
semi-hypnotic influence in the tones of the voice. We will
learn all about them as we reach later lessons in this book.
The human voice has a number of tones that exert a marked
and instant influence over hearers. These tones are quickly
acquired, when the way of producing them is understood. One
tone may be used by mothers in putting their babies to sleep.
One by teachers in securing and holding the attention and
respect of their pupils. An entirely different tone may be used
by merchants and salesmen in winning success. There is a tone
of the voice that arouses instantly the desire of an audience
to listen and give absorbed interest in what is said. These are
magnetic and not hypnotic.
LESSON FOUR
HUMAN MAGNETISM
HOMER
describes the gods viewing the fierce contests
on the plains of Troy from the summit of Mount
Ida. A later tradition tells of the astonishment of
a humble shepherd on this same summit, when he
beheld his iron-bound staff leap from his hands and cling to
the projecting rocks. History seems clear in pointing to this
locality of ancient Magnesia as the scene of the earliest discovery
of that wonderful ore or
"
stone
"
that would lift a
"
load/'
hence called the Lodestone. Very naturally was this force called
Magnetism, and the ore a Magnet, out of deference to the place
of its discovery.
This may be the very locality alluded to in the Arabian Nights
as the Magnetic Mountain, which drew out the iron bolts and
fastenings from passing ships, and sank them instantly.
Men were not long in discovering this magnetic iron- ore in
other places, and putting it to various tests of usefulness. Chief
among such experimental discoveries was the power it possessed
of magnetising a needle so that it would always point due North.
Even in English annals we find the sailing stone mentioned as
early as the twelfth century, but it was known and used long
previously by other nations.
It seems strange that up to one hundred and fifty years ago
men were ignorant of the existence of animal magnetism.
About 1770 a great scientist, Galvani, professor in Bologna,
was preparing some frogs to be cooked for his sickly wife.
Happening to touch two different metals in contact to certain
nerves and muscles, he was surprised to see the frog's lifeless
legs resume all the activity of their accustomed motions.
Others had noticed this result, but had not been led to in-
vestigate its philosophy.
34
HUMAN MAGNETISM 35
After his death Professor Aldini, a nephew, travelled through
Europe proving the truth of Galvani's statements and theories,
which had been misrepresented and repudiated.
A favourite experiment of his was to form a battery out of
several heads of recently slaughtered cattle, connecting their
tongues and ears alternately by wires. The result was always
surprising and conclusive. Aldini, among other things, main-
tained :
"
That muscular contractions are excited by the development
of electricity in the animal-machine, which is conducted from
the nerves to the muscles, without the concurrence of metals.
"
"
That all animals are endowed with an inherent electricity,
appropriate to their economy, which, secreted by the brain, re-
sides especially in the nerves, by which it is communicated to
every part of the body. When a limb is to be moved, the
nerves, aided by the brain, draw some electricity from the
interior of the muscles, discharging this upon their surface, and
they are thus contracted as desired.
"
Was it not the shrewd Napoleon I. who said, when he first
saw a voltaic battery :
"
Voila Fimage de la vie : la colonne
vertebrale est le pile ;
la vessie, le pole positif ;
et le foie, le pole
n^gatif."
We know that electricity and magnetism exist in all things.
We are assured that its power vastly exceeds our present
acquaintance with it. We have also seen that the very air be-
comes polarised and sets up induction between adjacent bodies.
The human frame is, so to speak, filled and dominated by
latent magnetism. Hence the brain, which appears to be the
seat of the soul or ego, is properly a sensitive electrical con-
denser, ready at any instant to charge any nerve^that they may
set their appropriate muscles in action, whenever that ego
touches the magic key which completes the circuit.
Thales, then, considering that he lived twenty-five hundred
years before our day, was not far out of the way when he said
that
"
electricity is the soul residing in electron.
"
The latent magnetism of an individual is quickly awakened I
by the vibratory current of a magnetic persoiT through the!
action of the voice, eye or touch.
Many persons are afraid to study these subjects, believing
that they stand for something that is terrible, some weird power
36 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
that may be associated with witchcraft. (Hypnotism was un-
doubtedly the basis of the old-time witchery, for it has always
existed in the world, and been misjudged in every age.^
But personal magnetism has never.beea in bad company. It
has ha3^no^ffiiavoiiry
^
wputafcion "f tut, t>irtKer otHerTiand, its
work has been of the nobler stamp, and its influence has always
tended to make the mind sound, the body whole and the nerves
steady. Of all the thousands of pupils in personal magnetism
whom we have met, there has neverJbee^onj^wiiQJceimned the
least^ bit pjLsuperstition, nor one^who hadjany fear of ghosts
or^a belief^ in theuu *Ke brain ^e1& a "clear and perfect view
of life^frse from the muddyiiues that 'tinge the meaner nature.
Its very basis is
vitality. Life and power grow with the in-
crease of personal magnetism,,. It helps to uplift the weak,
whether that individual be the student of the power or the one
who is brought under its influence. One magnetic man or
woman can wield a vast and inspiring sway over hundreds and
thousands of others at one and the same time. Those who are
thus dominated are given some of the magnetism of the master
power, and the more they are under such sway the stronger they
become in mind and purpose. Just the opposite is true of the
uses of hypnotism.
Every intelligent reader knows what is meant by the power
of personal magnetism, and there are few who cannot at once
detect the man or woman who possesses this power. The mere
enterin^pf the room, the first steps towards an audience, the first
tones of the speaking or singing voice, the touch of the hand,
the glance of the eye, or the impress of the fingers on the piano,
as in the case of the famous Polish player : these tell in a few
seconds the fact that the individual is
magnetic. If the gift be
natural, then it has come from accidental habits that prevent
the constant loss of vital electricity. You will see a self-
controlled, easy, but at the same time energetic personality that
will attract your attention because of the presentation of these
two conditions in one life.
LESSON FIVE
LIFE IS MAGNETISM
THE
BODY CANNOT BEGIN LIFE until it first be-
gins to generate magnetism. As has been fully stated
in an early lesson, all matter is composed of chemical
elements ;
and the human body employs fourteen of these
elements with one or two present under certain conditions
in addition to that number. Each element consists of particles
known as molecules ;
and shape, formation and construction
are given parts of the body by the action of magnetism in the
character of cohesion. This attribute could no more exist
without magnetism than could the earth remain in the solar
system without magnetism. In its absence the body of man
would be a mass of dust.
Each particle which is known as a molecule is composed of
atoms, and these also are held in the shape and formation of
the molecule by the same law of cohesion, without which there
could be no chemical elements ;
no oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen,
carbon, iron, gold, or other thing. All creation would be alike,
and all things as one. Nothing could grow, nothing could live
or have shape. Still further analysing matter, we find that the
atom is
a^solar system of its own, in miniature to be sure, but
nevertheless just the same kind of a solar system as is that of
which our sun and planets are parts. Each atom has its central
orb, and around this there fly its satellites in orbits such as we
study in astronomy. Each such planet is endowed with mag-
netism to keep it away from its central sun ;
and each such
sun is endowed with magnetisn to hold to its system every one
of its satellites.
Here we find that the basis of all life is magnetism, and that
it is also the basis of all matter. Wherever there is matter,
there must exist the powers of magnetic influence making life,
shaping life, developing all activities of life, and exerting an
37
38 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
unending influence in all the operations of Nature. Of such is
the body of a human being. Great experts in science say that
a single atom, fully developed in the use of the power locked up
in it, is charged with so mighty a force that it is capable of
blowing up the largest building in the world. We have never
believed this statement, but we have seen it repeated many
times, and we know that it is believed by abler minds than our
own. So what can we do ?
The lesson taught, however, is this :
Every particle of the
human bodjjis charged to excess and surcharged to excess with
active and with latent magnetism. It is everywhere, in the
blood, in the organs, in the arteries, in the veins, in the brain,
in the membranes, in the nerves, and in every bone and sinew of
the body.
Let us see if we can make clear the difference between the
presence of a power singly and collectively. This is a most
important distinction.
At first we will look into it by using the well-known example
of the cell, or the basis of ^ living structure whether of the
animal or the plant kingdom. A cell has its controlling force
which is seen as a darker particle generally near one side of the
cell itself. Thisjs its intelligent director,. This is carrying the
secret of the future of that cell. It may be the first cell of a
human being ;
if so, it will contain the intelligence that will, by
being multiplied, build countless billions more cells all like it,
which will obey the instructions that are locked up in that first
cell, and create the body of a human child. All the future of
that child as it grows into a man is contained in the intelligence
of that first cell.
The body of the man contains duplicates of the first cell, now
given shape and specialised duties, and existing in cell life
throughout all parts of the body. This is known as diffused
intelligence because it is divided into the multitudes of cells that
are contained in the entire organism as units.
There are two great kingdoms in the world :
One is the animal kingdom which includes the human species.
The other is the vegetable kingdom which includes all plant
life and all other life that does not belong to the animal division.
The difference between the animal kingdom and the veget-
able kingdom is this :
LIFE IS MAGNETISM 39
In the vegetable kingdom all cell intelligence is diffused.
In the animal kingdom, cell intelligence is not only diffused,
but is also found collectively. Collective cell intelligence occurs
in the nerve centres and in the brain. The latter organ in man
is an enormously enlarged collective mass of cell intelligence,
relatively speaking. In the vegetable kingdom it is not possible
to store intelligence in nerve centres, nor in a brain cavity ;
hence plants remain plants and are never changed into animals
until their cells are taken as food by the latter. But the cells of
the vegetable kingdom possess the high honour of being the
basis of the body of the animal ;
for whether flesh eats flesh
or only vegetation, every cell in the animal was once a cell in
the vegetable division of life. So the diffused intelligence of
the plant world becomes in time the collective intelligence in the
brain of man.
By this illustration we come to understand in what way the
diffused magnetism of the atom-structure of the human body
may become the collective magnetism of man or woman.
It must be borne in mind that every atom possesses tremend-
ous inherent or natural power, due to its magnetism. In the
plant kingdom this magnetism is diffused, for which reason there
is no collective influence emanating from the tree ; although
persons who work out among growing foliage and plants or
trees are known to absorb considerable power in diffused
form.
In the human body as in animals the magnetism is more or
less drawn into central storage conditions. But in all life below
man this is an electric and not a magnetic form. In the
electric fish this force is concentrated to an unusual degree,
considering the size of the organism. In the human species
there may be a strong collective force of electricity with an
insufficient quantity of magnetism. Thus many persons are
found whose bodies are really charged with the fluid known as
electricity. The fact is that this fluid is gathered collectively
from the magnetism that is the life of each atom, yet it lacks
something to bring it up to the standard known as personal
magnetism.
We have shown that diffused cell intelligence when brought
into a collective condition becomes the brain of animal life.
We have also shown that diffused atomic magnetism when
40 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
brought into a collective condition becomes the magnetic power
of life.
Personal magnetism is the union of these two conditions ;
the blending of the collective form of intelligence with the
Collective form of magnetism.
From this rather technical, although valuable, exposition of
these great facts, we learn that every man and woman is of
necessity highly magnetic, although the blending of the two
forces into personal magnetism may not yet have taken place.
One further step and we reach the basis of our study.
It is equally clear that every man and woman is naturally
in possession of the gift of personal magnetism in latent form.
This power exists in fact, but as in a shell, just as the life of
the eagle is contained in the shell of the egg. The latter must be
broken and the life released.
As every man and woman possesses this power latently, the
process of releasing it is necessary ;
but when once released it
needs only to be guided aright to become effective. When we
speak of developing personal magnetism we do not intend to
imply that it is to be created out of nothing, for that would be
impossible. The word educate in the process of learning, means
to draw out, to lead forth, referring to the unfolding of the power
of acquiring knowledge. In developing magnetism, it is not
created, or made to grow out of nothing, but is released from its
latent condition.
There are two processes that may be employed to unfold this
power :
One is the use of inciting exercises that stimulate into action
the forces that are dormant in the body. This is artificial in its
first stages, but if turned into habits of living will in time
become natural ; and this change occurs when the exercises
have been carried far enough to inspire the adoption of their
results as habits.
The other and far better method is that which breaks the
shell that obstructs the life within the body, and releasesTtlie
pent-up power. Then Nature asserts herself, and personal
magnetism becomes in fact a gift.
The student should understand the difference between the
two processes that are employed in unfolding this power.
Then we meet the fact that there are many persons who are
LIFE IS MAGNETISM 41
thus gifted by their own habits of living and habits of using
their powers. Without instruction of any kind, the operation
of certain activities will result in the appearance of this gift.
We have talked with many such men and women. Some of
them have been known to us through a course of years. We
have made a very large collection of little histories covering
such cases, so that we have been able to get at the basic facts
that underlie the acquisition of personal magnetism without
instruction. The results of this analysis are worth knowing.
We refer to men and women who have won great successes in
the various avenues of life, in the professional, business and
social world.
In the first place we are deeply impressed with their perfect
poise whether they were active or were inactive. This condition
hey seemed to be cognisant of and they conserved it.
Thenwe noted a degree of cjoohiess and reserve in the muscular
5nd in the nervous systems. They did not seem to be uncon-
scious of this condition, for in every case it appeared as if
they sought to maintain it, although this might not always
have been the fact. The same principle was involved as in the
breach of good form which, if it occurred, would have at once
been realised by the parties themselves rather than by
observers. This means that persons who are magnetic solely by
habits of living which have grown up with them, know when
they break any of those habits just as a well-bred person knows
when some rule of conduct has been broken, and will proceed to
avoid it in the future. Thus we see that persons who are well
bred conserve their watchfulness over their own conduct ; and
it has always seemed to us that those who are magnetic do the
thing automatically.
The third trait that was always evident in this class of persons
that of high nervous tension held in perfect repose. This
condition was never absent in any of the great men and women
of the past whose lives we analysed from a close personal
Acquaintance.
The fourth trait that was found in every one of them was a
voertain muscular shaping of the temples which gave to the eyes
a very powerful influence when they were employed either as
accompanying conversation or when listening. This did not
make the eyes either piercing or impressive in the act of being
42 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
used ;
but there was a subtle quality that we shall explain at
,great length before this study is ended in this book.
3 The fifth trait that we noted differed in its use. At one time it
Appeared as a form of a living grace that was most fascinating.
In other cases it showed itself in the phase of a rugged strength
apparently born in ultra grace. But it was not the languid kind
of grace, nor the form of ease that suggests relaxing. Life
was present in every fibre of the body.
The voice in every instance was very magnetic.
'
Habits of use had brought this afcout, for tliere'is no such thing
as a naturally magnetic voice in the sense that it came about
without some kind of development. People, without knowing it,
copy others. A magnetic singer may have a voice highly trained
at the hands of a great teacher ;
and a hundred admirers among
amateur singers may consciously or unconsciously imitate the
methods of vocal use, and so come into some of its acquired
power.
All human voices are developed by habit or training ;
and
most of those that are attractive exert an influence over those
who associate with the users. Even defects are imitated. We
recall the case of a beloved master of a boys' school who stam-
mered, and every boy in the school acquired the stammer
unconsciously but in less degree.
The development of the magnetic voice follows an exact
scientific process, and can be accomplished with mathematical
certainty. It is not a slow proceeding in any event. The reason
for this success is due to the fact that exercises may be employed
that begin to show results from the very beginning of the
training. This can be said also of the development of the
magnetic eye/ But other branches of the study of personal
magnetism require time and patience.
If a person could be constantly in the company of those
who were naturally gifted in this power, and who had never
been trained or had the opportunity of studying a book method,
and such person were observant and disposed to analyse effects
and trace them back to their causes, it is more than likely that
the power could be acquired by what is called absorption, or
the influence of association.
The six traits that we have just described as being evident
in all cases of magnetism where there has been no study or
LIFE IS MAGNETISM 43
training, instead of being copied or absorbed by imitation and
association, may be more readily transmitted by study and
training, and they are included in the present work ;
but only as
a part of the methods employed. They are as follows :
1. Perfect poise of majiner.
2. Perfect coolness and reserve in the jmjisfiiaL^
""
High nervous tension reserye.
4. The shaping of the temple formation^ leading to the
deyelopmentjrf the magn&ti0 eye.
5. Living grace.
6. SHnagnetic voice.
As we Tmve said these are only a part of our system of train-
ing ;
and they are merely reproductions of the unvarying traits
that we found in all persons who had achieved greatness
through the possession of personal magnetism as a natural
gift.
^
But these same persons had been highjj developed in their
mental^ preparations for their life work. Such development
never invites magnetism, but is helped by it, and helps it in turn.
On^the other hand a person who is
magnetic without mental
prepira/fcion" is like a powerful^motor-vehiclejrunnin^
driver.^
To meet the needs of mental preparation we have included in
this wor^ffie^ra^Mfi^lSlftt _is designed for arousing^ ambition
andTibr stimulating the mind, which we have termed Mental
Magnitude. Tt perfprmsJM-fe^y of cultivating the thought-
processes and of uniting them with natural magnetism^
The work immediately before us then is to ascertain what
are the defects and obstructions that prevent the latent
magnetism of the body from storing itself collectively in the
brain and faculties. These hindrances when once removed will
no longer interfere with the development of the power that is
sought, and the latter will have free scope to unfold itself in a
manner that will leave no doubt of its character and value in
life. It is a proved fact that when such power has free scope
to unfold itself, it will make the most remarkable progress in
its development, and will become then a natural gift, and not an
acquired one.
LESSON SIX
THE VENEER
THERE
IS PRESENT in every man and woman enough
latent magnetism to give to each person absolute control
over all the affairs of life, and to lift such person up to
the highest pinnacle of success, jf only it were drawn into
action and employed in the right way. As long as brain and
body are composed of atoms such as we have described, each
controlled by a central force as full of energy for its size as is
our own fiery sun, so long will every human being hold in latent
form at least the potential presence of magnetism. Nor is it
a difficult task to develop this power into an active agency,
and to use it for the greatest achievements in life.
Every person belongs to one of three classes :
1. The attractive.
2. The neutral.
3. The repellent.
The attractive class possesses qualities that please and win
friends, followers and associates, by voice, manner of approach
and methods of dealing with them. We do not refer to assumed
or transient attractions. A doctor may dress in the height of
fashion, be immaculately groomed, employ the most gracious
manners, be pleasant and even charming, and yet possess only
those attractions that are assumed. On the other hand another
doctor may be plain in speech and dress, and yet exceedingly
magnetic in voice and methods, winning confidence and reaping
success, not so much in money as in curing his patients. The
attractions of the first doctor in time pall on one ;
while those
of the other grow with acquaintance.
A business man may be urbane, unusually polite, full of
smiles and kind greetings, and yet fail to impress those who
understand such methods. Another business man may be
44
THE VENEER 45
attentive to the needs of his customers, may know what they
desire, may find it readily, may discuss with them the questions
that pertain to matters in hand, and yet lack the polish of the
urbane and gracious gentleman we first mentioned. One may
fail to sell his goods as readily as the other, for assumed attrac-
tiveness is only a veneer ;
and magnetism is abiding.
Therefore by the term attractive in this lesson we mean
magnetic.
At the other extreme we find the repellent class. Of every
ten thousand persons in this world among civilised nations,
only about ten persons are magnetically attractive ; while fully
four thousand are repellent ;
and nearly six thousand neutral.
Look at a group of ladies in a drawing-room. One always
leads all the others in graciousness of manner and winning
ways. A few are vivacious, and that is all. Some fail utterly
to attract ;
or if they succeed in so doing they do not hold what
they gain. Some seem to be walled in by a repelling voice,
unattractive personality and forbidding indifference. Many are
neutral, or lacking in both qualities. This is in the drawing-
room where the more pleasing influences should manifest them-
selves. Out in the great world we find countless thousands of
people repelling their fellow-beings, some from causes they do
not seek, others from causes of which they are ignorant, and
still others by reason of a most lamentable lack of attractive
magnetism.
The neutral classes are by far the most numerous. We refer
only to magnetic neutrality. Many of them are rich, but wealth
is not the chief insignia of success. Many of them are neither
rich nor poor, but may be regarded as well-to-do. Many of
them are well secured in their places in the social scale, and
others belong to the middle classes, socially speaking. It would
be humourous were it not pitiable to see many of them trying to
substitute some forms of attraction for those that may be lack-
ing. One of the chief defects in these substitutes is that they
are employed only in the presence of others. When there are no
observers present, the substitutes are laid aside as one would
lay by a cloak ;
hence they are not natural nor easily assumed.
Sunday manners, like Sunday clothes, if worn only occasionally,
do not make the lady or the gentleman.
The methods just referred to are employed for the purpose of
46 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
pleasing or impressing others. In and of themselves they are
never magnetic, and therefore do not reach the end that is
sought. What we are teaching in this course of training is the
development of the genuine power of attraction, that is absorbed
as first nature in the individual, that rises with him in the
morning, enters into the daily duties, and still dwells within at
night, engrafted into his very being. It is a new force, a new
form of life, a new birth.
The substitutes for magnetism are many and varied. Those
who adopt them do not know for what they are substitutes, but
do know that something in some way is lacking in their associa-
tions with their fellow-beings. They are told that honey will
attract more bees than vinegar, so they indulge in an assumption
of smiles, kind expressions, and pleasing ways, in the hope that
these will win the goal they are seeking. There are salesmen
who are never very successful, although they flatter and praise
their prospective customers, and pour out a flood of kindly
talk ;
while other salesmen possess a subtle, intangible some-
thing that convinces and wins easily. We have known com-
mercial travellers who, on making a call, as they term it, are
primed with a line of talk that must of necessity bring orders,
as they believe, and yet who find themselves held in check by
the unbroken refusal of the person they address. They had not
learned that talk, while necessary,
and ideas, while indispensable,
do not arouse an interest in offerings that are not urgently
demanded, unless the talk and ideas are mentally magnetic ;
for thought may be charged with this power, as"well as voice,
manner and presence.
We have known of young ladies who have put forth every
possible effort to win the affection of men whom they have
wished to marry ;
and yet who have failed because their
assumed attractions did not wear well. The more they were
seenjmd heard, the less grew the charm. Short courtships
have been urged in doubtful casesa under the instinctive fear
that time juid knowledge will erase the veneer of practised
smiles and stilted kindliness. The father whose wisdom was
of tEeT order of Solomon's, who did not wish his daughter to
marry a certain young man, conceived the idea of asking the
latter to come and live in the father's family where the suitor
could see the daughter daily under the same general circum-
THE VENEER 47
stances that prevail in married life. The scheme worked. In
lessj/haaj^month the g^l^wa^askingjiers^lf.what there was ux
this fellow that ever made her want tpjpaftjay^imnj and the
young i^nrasEeS^imself a similar question regarding the girl.
TEey^ parted with a feeling of relief that they had not made the
greater mistake of marrying each other.
We shall show that certain supposed attractions bring count-
less thousands of men and women into wedlock, only to find all
too soon that these attractions are a veneer, which, as soon as it
wears off, leaves exposed the bare facts of mis-mating, estrange-
ment and divorce.
On the other hand where two persons are drawn to each other
by the power of magnetism, they never separate, and there has
never been a divorce in any such case. This brings us to the two
great facts of life :
1. Personal magnetism is inherent4 natural, one hundred
percent real, and one hundred per cent permanent. Once it is
ei^r^tedjn the life of a person, it remains until death comes,
and survives- beyond.
2- The_ substitutes of personal magnetism are transient,
unnatural, evanescent and disappointing.
As these substitutes always stand in the way of the acquisition
of the genuine power, we shall devote a few pages to the
discussion of them. What we seek to teach is the value of the
real as against the worthlessness of the veneer.
If you are lacking in magnetism, you will in some form or
other become the victim of a veneer. The politician, running
for office, shakes hands with you and inquires about your family.
That is veneer. The sour girl becomes sweet when she seeks
to draw you into her net ;
and she assumes what is called a
"
Sunday Voice
"
in addressing you ; and Sunday manners
with Sunday clothes. Certain salesmen are over-kind, over-
pleasant, over-cordial in addressing you. Most lovers employ
a veneer in manner, dress and attention. But there^ neyer
the test of a"magniic_pawer
driven against.iL__
LESSON SEVEN
OUTLINES OF MAGNETISM
EVERY
IMPORTANT STUDY is built in the form of
a structure. Its foundations rest in the bosom of
Nature. Its superstructure may rise, part on part, to
the topmost section on which rest the spires that point
to a power above. Bedded in Nature it seeks the sky. Thus
all things proceed. The tree borrows its material fund from
the lap of Nature, and responds to the vital forces of the
heavens which draw its substance from the ground by the
magnetism of the sun. A force holds all things to the earth ;
and another force gives them the outstretching arms that seek
the Giver of Life.
Magnetism as a study has its basic foundations in Nature.
ButTE rises to tlie sources of Nature.
Jtj,_wholly a subtle and intangible force, yet it is the most
powerful force in all the universe.
Beyond this world we find the solar system of which our
globe is a part. Beyond our solar system, we discern many
other similar systems that unite to form our universe. Beyond
our universe, there are countless other universes ; yet they
are all bound together by the subtle and intangible force known
as magnetism. If this force were absent, all creation would fly
apart and be lost in chaos.
The constellations that form our universe are held together
by this same force. If it were absent, all the constellations
would drift away, or in fact would have been wanderers in
space and lost by this time to our gaze.
Our own solar system consists of the central sun, the planets,
and planetary orbs that are invisible to the eye ; all held by
magnetism to the sun ;
all revolving around it ; all repelling the
efforts of the sun to draw them into its mass ;
and yet all held in
leash by the very sun they repel. Were this magnetism lacking,
48
OUTLINES OF MAGNETISM 49
the whole mass would take one of two courses. If the inherent
magnetism of the orbs that repel the inviting power of the
sun were absent, they would be absorbed in that great fire. If
the inherent magnetism of the sun that holds them in leash
were lacking, all the planets and orbs would wander off in
space, aimlessly and endlessly, with no future except that of
frozen ice balls, useless in the plan of creation.
These are the giant energies of magnetism. Yet this force is
subtle and intangible.
What we call gravity, for lack of a better name, is the same
magnetism. It keeps all things within the embrace of the earth.
Without it no living being could remain on the ground. The
first step that was raised in walking would lift man from
the globe and he would continue to rise until he had met the
fate of the orbs that had wandered off into the abysses of space.
Every object, animate or inanimate, that moved at all would
move off the earth never to return. If you were to rise from
a chair you would keep on rising until you reached the ceiling,
if indoors, or until you passed out of view in the sky, if out of
doors.
All growth in the kingdom of plants, flowers and trees is due
to the magnetism of the sun in drawing the material from the
earth. If this were lacking, nothing would have life. The
needed elements that build the plant or tree are actually lifted
out of the soil ;
while the needed vitality from the sun is actually
drawn from that orb, woven into growing things, and eventually
stored away in the earth itself.
We have spoken of the universe as composed of solar systems,
each with a central governing orb. It was not known until
very recently that this form of structure is reproduced in minia-
ture in all substance that is called matter. In chemistry there
are more than ninety elements ; each element being supposed to
consist of a fixed arrangement of molecules, or small particles
that never vary their plan of structure unless disturbed by
some such influence as radioactivity. One such arrangement
results in the element known as iron, another in hydrogen,
another in oxygen, another in gold, and so on through all the
chemical elements. These molecules are held together in each
fixed arrangement by the magnetism called cohesion. If this
were lacking, there could be no elements, no iron, no gold, no
50 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
oxygen, no metals or gases, and no combinations of elements
such as sustain life and give shape to all things. Everything
would be resolved to dust, or a condition much finer than dust.
There would be no animal life, no plant life, no buildings, no
tools with which to work, nothing whatever tangible.
Thus we see the wonderful provision of the Creator in giving
to all the earth this form of magnetism.
Yet what we call shapes of things are held together not only
by this kind of magnetism, but by laws within themselves
similar to the laws that govern the universes of the sky. Each
molecule which is the basis of an element is itself composed of
atoms. While these are invisible, their activities and nature are
well known and easily studied. Each atom, once supposed to
be the beginning of all things and regarded as holding the secret
of creation, is now known to be composed of electrons ;
and here
we really have the first cause of creation.
Each atom is a universe, or rather a solar system in itself ;
it has a central orb or sun, which is
an^electron ;
around which
all the other electrons revolve. There is present in the atom
the same law of magnetism that holds together the stars and
planets.
Our sun is a ball of fire inconceivably hot, shooting forth
tongues of flame that extend a hundred thousand miles beyond
its surface. The central orb in an atom is relatively active, and
possesses the same relative amount of fire, energy and mag-
netism ; yet a thousand billions of these atoms thus constructed
in the form of solar systems could not, if massed together,
present enough substance to be seen by the naked eye.
It is of such atoms that the human body, the human brain,
the entire nervous system, all the organs, and all the flesh and
bones, are composed. The energy that is locked up in a single
atom holds enough potential power to destroy the body itself if
set free. Every drop of blood is charged with latent and active
magnetism. There is no particle of life in a human being that
is not a slumbering dynamo.
While electricity and magnetism are not the same, both come
from the same source, make use of the same laws, and proceed
in the same manner to manifest themselves. The air about us
is charged to excess with unlimited funds of electricity and
magnetism. If you set up a giant generator in a small room
OUTLINES OF MAGNETISM 51
having walls ten feet thick ;
a floor of masonry ten feet deep ;
and a ceiling overhead made of concrete or stone material ten
feet high ;
and if you lock up that room with a door ten feet
thick, and set the generator working to draw out of the air
all the electricity available ; you will never find an end to the
flow of current that will supply that engine or dynamo. It will
be able to find this power a million years from now. You
cannot shut out the supply, exhaust it, or even reduce it.
Where does it come from ? How does it get through those walls ?
We have spoken of drawing electricity from the air, as if it
were located in the atmosphere. But when a dynamo is placed
in a vacuum and set in motion, the flow of electricity is still
maintained. This shows that the air is not the agency of supply.
There are three oceans by which influences are transmitted :
1. The atmosphere through which the magnetism of the
voice is carried in waves from one person to another.
2. The light-ether which fills all space between the orbs of the
sky, and through which light waves pass, as well as electric
_^^ _ . . . ___
3. The thought-ethj^ throu^^^ of thought pass
from mind to mind, and which connects life on this earth with
,
J
nems
Human magnemsm employs all three of these means of
communication in the passing of its influence from person to
person. But while the waves of sound in the air carry the tones
of the voice, and are in that way the agency of the magnetic
voice, the actual magnetism is conveyed either by the light-
ether or by the thought-ether.
The sound of the human voice travels on air waves at the
rate of 1087 feet per second. Light travels at the rate of
186,300 miles per second. Electricity moves at the rate of
230,000 miles per second. Thoughtjsjible to
ui spac^ in less
J^han^a.
secon5";~alad yet it moves in^jwaves, uniting not only human
beings on thisi
planet, j^aU-Jbfiin^^
DEPARTMENT OF
MENTAL MAGNITUDE
LESSON EIGHT
THE STOMACH SUBSTITUTE
HUMANITY
IS GIVEN FOUR APPETITES ;
and in
this regard differs from all the rest of the animal king-
dom in that they possess only one appetite, which
is that of the stomach. An appetite is an inborn
craving, not a mere function. It is so strongly implanted in
life tKat it sways all other considerations in conduct and
manner of living. More than one-half of thejpopulation of t^e
globe are craftyj_l>y which is meantlbEatJJiey k~now how to take
^gf the human
^
This craftiness, when it preys upon human appetites and
thereby lures men and women into the webbed traps that are
thus set for them, takes the place of that noble power known as
personal magnetism, and, in combat between the two forces,
often wins. We must clear the deck of these enemies before we
proceed further, for they are only
"
substitutes
"
of genuine
magnetism.
The Four Appetites are :
1. The Stomach Appetite.
2. The Sexual Appetite.
3. The Greed Appetite.
4. The Spiritual Appetite.
Humanity possesses all four in the form of controlling
influences, while animals possess in fulness onlv the first : in
THE STOMACH SUBSTITUTE 53
tage over their fellow-beings, and who, knowing the urgency
of the impelling force of these appetites, make use of that
knowledge for their own conquests, some of one kind and some
of other kinds.
jj-gSJUffJLJlJ^
^he greatest enemy of pet-
sonat magnetism.,
J5gL]^ of life.
We knew a preacher of great magnetism who was almost
always able to achieve whatever success he sought, who had
before him a man he was persuading to adopt a new life ; but he
found to his surprise that he was losing in the attempt to
convince the man, and sought the reason why. A deacon
whispered in his ear,
"
This man is hungry. His stomach has
been empty for two days." When that organ was given its
necessary supply, the man was open to persuasion ;
but the
incident shows that the stomach appetite is the strongest of all
four in human existence.
Napoleon fed his soldiers liberally before their battles, and
gained by so doing. More than this, he conceived an idea that
proves the power of mental magnetism, when he gave orders
that all prisoners taken from his enemy nations should be well
fed at all times, the result being that they preferred to remain
in France rather than go back to the mean rations of their
own countries. It is related with authority that those who did
return under the plan of exchange, and who afterwards fought
against Napoleon, surrendered willingly in order to again
become prisoners and again be well fed.
Most animals kill for food only, rarely for any other cause
unless to protect their young. But they must find enough to
eat, and this is the plan of Nature in order to preserve the
species. As the pangs of hunger increase, their power of attack
becomes more ferocious.
The human race has always been swayed more by the call of
the stomach than by any other influence. Crafty people know
this fact, and take advantage of it ;
no matter how much they
may be lacking in magnetism, or even to what extent they may
be repellent in this way, they yet are shrewd enough to recognize
the fact that men's minds may be reached through their
stomachs. Here is a substitute for magnetism that has been
employed countless times in order to gain some end.
54 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Everyman and woman should learn this lessra^ Magnetism
ive, aggressive agency^jind should never be kept on
Speaking of mental magnetism as the power of
ideas in controlling men and women, or bringing them into
accord with the views and purposes of a stronger personality,
we find evidences of this influence constantly coming to our
notice, and they seem to be unlimited. One such magnetic idea
we have mentioned in referring to Napoleon. Here is another
that is worthy of adoption ^The man or woman who, in the
stn^l^fOT^supremacy with others, is kept on the defensive is
always at a disadvantage. "Yet the individual who is made use
pf~ihrougEf~any oiie^ oFthe four appetites is decidedly on the
defensive. Magnetism must be made aggressive. Therefore it
is important that you recognise the nature of the four appetites,
and keep your mind alert, or on the look-out for them. In this
connection let us see some of the methods employed to reach
a person's judgment through the stomach.
jUIjyqmen know that the best way tojgetjbo
& man's heart
is through his_stomach ;
and this is an old adage. The wife who
feeds her husband to his satisfaction is more likely to win his
heart and mind in that way than by any other course, if she
lacks magnetism. The woman who is seeking a husband, if she
is oh the mty**to succeed with some friend whose decision is
not yet fully formed, will invite him to dinner and serve him a
meal that will linger in his memory.
In society the great allurement is the many-course dinner,
In all phases of social intercourse, the stomach, and the mouth
that opens the way to the stomach, receive attention. If you
make an afternoon call, something goes in the mouth or
stomach. If you are to be honoured day or evening, there must
be provided things to go in the mouth or stomach. If a great
personage arrives in this country, he must be given a greeting in
some assemblage where he is fed. A hero from the battlefield,
or from the ocean's dangers, is met by a public demonstration ;
and, although the hotel at which he is stopping supplies more
than ample food for him, he must be fed before a great crowd.
A well-known politician, who recently died, had on his waiting
list more dinners and banquets than he could find time to
attend ;
but he did go to enough of them to ruin his stomach ;
and he once said in despair,
"
If they would only invite me to
THE STOMACH SUBSTITUTE 55
do something besides eat, I should be a well man." These
over-abundant feasts are conceived in a well-meaning scheme of
giving pleasure to others and thereby winning their approval.
But they are often used directly to win some control over the
judgment of others. Men generally are the objects of this
kind of feeding. Some are swayed into making decisions
through the influence of nicely prepared meals to which they
are invited as guests ;
but men of magnetism know too well
what purpose is in the minds of those who seek to win them in
this way, jmd do not allow a weU.-i'ed^stQmach to control their
judgment,
~~
Tn the old days voters were easily won by the contents of the
beer barrel, or the whisky bottle. The candidate for office did
not possess magnetism, so he employed a substitute. Millions
upon millions of votes have been won by magnetic speakers in
their addresses to audiences ;
but more millions have been won
by the appeal to the stomach. Not only in politics but in every
walk in life has the craving of the stomach for drink been made
use of by crafty people, in order to win control over those
who can be swayed in this way.
To avoid being placed on the defensive through this method,
there should be a very clear understanding of the purpose in the
mind of one who offers drink, no matter how good it may be in
quality, for the disadvantage is of a double nature :
First, it
places you under some obligation
to the one who gives it. Then
it reduces materially the power of resistance by making your
mind and judgment less clear than it should be in an important
transaction.
Study the four appetites. Note them in others. Then take
account of stock of them in yourself. Finally analyse^the
possible_motives of people who seek to take advantage of you
through them, and cease to remain on thejdefensive.
Non-magnetic people are controlled T)y others through the
jiouth and stomach ;
and are even more controlled and deprived
of their own magnetism by the cravings of the mouth, which is
the gateway to the stomach. Something is entering the mouth
through the livelong day : the cigar, the pipe, the cigarette, the
chewing-tobacco, the chewing-gum, sweets, soda water, beer,
liquor, wine, chocolate, nuts, and three or more meals daily.
LESSON NINE
THE SEXUAL SUBSTITUTE
BY
GLANCING BACK to the preceding lesson we learn
that there are four appetites in humanity, any one of
which, if played upon, may offset and defeat the power
of personal magnetism. These appetites work in two
ways. They place their owner in the control of crafty and
unscrupulous persons at times ;
and they bring in financial
gains for those who make use of them in the mastery of others.
The victims suffer losses that could easily have been averted
by the possession of magnetism. They bring rewards to people
who know the weakness of human nature.
The advice that has been given in the preceding lesson is to
be repeated here. Study the four appetites. Study their power
over your mind and life. Be on the look-out for those efforts
that sooner or later will be made to place you under the sub-
jugation of one or more of them. Throw off the necessity of
being on the defensive. Take the aggressive ;
and this can be
done only through the aid of magnetism.
The first of the four appetites is that of the stomach. It
would seem as if the injury done to the stomach, by excessive
eating or indulgence in things that hurt that organ, would end
its cravings at least until it gets back its normal health. But
Nature punishes in a mysterious way ;
for a congested stomach
craves stimulants, especially those of the alcoholic kind. A
perfectly normal and healthy stomach will not only not crave
alcoholic drinks, but will refuse to accept them. In a record of
tests in which ten stomachs were found that were in absolutely
perfect condition, with no trace whatever of congestion, the
admission of whisky that would have been craved by the
ordinary stomach resulted in the liquor being instantly vomited
up and discarded by Nature. All kinds of cures have been tried
to overcome the craving for liquor, and none have been very
56
THE SEXUAL SUBSTITUTE 57
successful until the method was devised whereby all congestion
was removed, and then it was learned that craving for stimulants
is the cry of a congested stomach. As doctors declare that a
vast majority of all persons have congested stomachs, the
widespread demand for stimulants is founded in some reason ;
but the desire for stimulants has always disappeared when all
congestion has been removed.
Therefore the injury that follows misuse of a natural appetite
only leads on to a greater misuse. This is true of the other
appetites.
Next to that of the stomach, the most powerful appetite is
that of the sex nature. While hunger leads animals to slay, and
to make themselves dangerous to other life, it is rare that these
lower forms of creation are driven to what is called animal-
crimes by the sex impulse. Humanity alone is made slave to
this appetite.
It is with men and women a very potent and very effective
substitute for magnetism. JBy the use of personal magnetism a
man can easily win the right kind of a woman for a wife; and
if our records of forty-five years are to be believed, not one
couple so united will ever be separated either by divorce or
unmated temperaments. We know the facts in many thousands
of lives and they all concur in the same result.
Not many marriages in every thousand are made by mag-
netism ;
those that are, never fall apart. It is to be regretted
therefore that the true magnet should not bring the man and
woman together. The goal is worth the race.
A Judge recently said in his charge to a jury :
"
It is a fact
that morej&tmj^ induced by
false lure of s^^ai^ap^etite.'' Here is a substitute for
magnetism that is at work wredking^ lives by^
ths millions.
Magnetism unfolds the character and even the soul, and lays
bare the truth. It brings forth all the natural good and all
the acquired good in man and woman. It builds character
on character, goodness on goodness, and worth on worth, and
these become fixed and inherent qualities in the mind and
heart. On the^jother hand the sexual appetite, while it draws
anotEef, is fleeting on being satiated, and the
glamour that it painted with its hopes and promises soon turns
to sordid tinseL
58 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Being easily preyed upon, it is taken advantage of by crafty
people for their own ends ;
like magnetism it wins what it seeks,
but its success is a rope of sand, and its victory hollow.
The horrible side of this influence is that which displays the
devil-nature of humanity in its willingness to coin money by
commercialising this appetite. Houses of ill -fame are means of
making money. White slavery is employed as a means of
making money. Paramours and mistresses have lured men of
wealth into their dens, because men were not able to resist the
call of this appetite.
Wives who possess magnetism need never fear that their
husbands will seek the society of other women. This fact has
been abundantly proved and can be easily verified. We know
of thousands of women who, after marriage, have acquired
magnetism, and who by its quiet and undemonstrative in-
fluence hold a firm grip over the loyal affections of their
husbands, who yield this loyalty willingly and sincerely.
Thus we find that strong as the sexual appetite is, magnetism
Jar more dominant, and always master over
these substitutes.
A wanton woman of average beauty is able, by her appeal
to the sexual appetite of a man who lacks magnetism, to do
almost anything with him if she proceeds skilfully. Great
personages have fallen into the clutches of such women, as the
court records show. History is full of such examples. In
America recently a young woman of more than average beauty
poisoned her husband for his wealth after inducing him to make
a will in her favour, was tried by a jury of men, and promptly
acquitted. She repeated this crime with a second husband in
another part of the country, and was acquitted. When she
tried it in a different locality a third time, although she actually
killed her husband, discovery was made in time to secure over-
whelming evidence of her guilt ;
and after conviction she con-
fessed to the other two murders. It is a fact that a very
beautiful murderess may so addle the minds of the average
jurors that they are not able to convict her.
If this is true, what is to be said of the men at large who are
constantly being hunted by beautiful girls and women of whom
the world is full ?
If jurors are helpless with the law, the evidence, and counsel
THE SEXUAL SUBSTITUTE 59
uniting to guide them aright, what chance of scape have the
mere. men who are aUowedj^^aiiLjai,wQ][
jimid the sgenea. of
human activities J .
Some people who are sworn to do justice to all very soon
wander from the ethical path of duty if beauty draws them to
itself.
AlHhis is sex appetite._
/
Utis an undue and unholy interesfln the opposite sexJ
T^ goes to lliie^ woman] Not airwomen who
seek husbands do so because of their desire to be supported.
Many are impelled byJbhgir jami^m^jappatite. When this is
normal, arid there is genuine magnetism to accompany it, the
combination iajdeaL
"*T?ut fewerjnen are
gjjingjbg^day to^
undeilake thejiazardoua
gjid^ experiilY^experlence of wedjock1 1 They are slow to marry.
They do marry in about the same number as always, but they
hesitate before taking the step. To offset this indifference,
women have established several forms of sex appeal ;
the most
effective of which is the exposure of the shapes of their legs,
their backs and bosoms. With her attire receding at the upper
and at the lower parts, and the body that in former times was
regarded as sacred, displayed in what is really a vulgar
exhibition, all the power of this appeal is thrust into the gaze
of hesitating man.
Girls and women with decayed tonsils, ulcerised teeth and
blood that is infested with intestinal poisoning, instead of
delicately touching the face as of former times, now plaster on
the paint until Nature resigns and the beauty parlours parade
the scene. The man who marries one of these combinations,
when he awakes in the morning and beholds the facts, becomes
half delirious in the belief that he is passing through some
horrible nightmare.
Many keepers of dance halls, and of cabarets where indis-
criminate dancing prevails, are making money by taking advan-
tage of the sexual appetite of humanity. The majority of
commercialised dancing is a form of assignation. Many public
dance halls are agencies of prostitution. True men and true
women will make use of this pastime as a social function, keep
it within their own set, and place the ban on lascivious contact
such as universally prevails under all other conditions. Boys
6o INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
and girls in their teens, as well as men and women of all ages
under fifty, drift to the questionable places, drawn by this same
appetite.
In this account we do not intend to criticise dancing as a
social function, conducted as such, nor any friendly use of this
pastime among acquaintances whom one would be willing to
invite into the home as guests.
The strongest magnetic force, taken collectively, is that
of pure home life. Where this exists the world is safe. Where
it is lacking, there the nests of criminals are to be found. The
lure of the public dance hall is rapidly breaking up this influence.
Reports gathered by police departments and by courts show
that a large percentage of the girls who attend such dances
become mothers, with no prospect or desire to marry the boys
with whom they have associated. In one city, in a space of a
year, more than 1400 such girls, many of them not half through
their teens, were ruined ;
and all of them ascribed their fall
to the public dance halls and cabarets.
This is all in the name of the sexual appetite. The girls
were excited by lascivious embraces ;
the boys and men were
hungry for them ;
and the proprietors were feeding their purses
by bringing these two temptations into play under the name of
entertainment and amusement. Many dance halls are equipped
with very small upper-floor rooms. In one hall that was recently
raided, the police found twelve rooms which twelve couples
under the age of twenty years were occupying, having by their
confession awaited their turn with many others ;
and this
hall claimed to be conducting a dance to provide entertainment
for its guests.
We have made the assertion that no married person who
possesses magnetism is ever divorced or estranged ;
for the
reason that this power is permanent and genuine. It does not
make any difference whether one or both are magnetic. If
either has this quality, it is imparted to the other, for it carries
its own^
influence to all
^persons with whom it comes into contghgt%
or woman consider'marrymft
-.
unlessi
tms power has beerTftcq^^
If it is true, as a prominent Jucige said in open court, that
ninety per cent of all marriages are brought about by the sex
appetite, then this will account for the innumerable disasters
THE SEXUAL SUBSTITUTE 6l
that follow wedlock. Divorces are common. Separations are
more common. Dissatisfied couples are still more common.
The claim madejby each jae^j3guEle prior to TYiRrri^,g^jthat in
their case there is
J^bej^^cep^^
cease tcTlbve each other^ _
By^evelry divorced couple before they entered wedlock^
tTiarTtEis they TJeBeved it, and think they are to be exceptions
of the
It is claimed that love is blind.
Thejspell
of the sexual appetite is so great as to be almost
blinSing. Under thia^ipeH ^Ta^ire makes jngn^nifl TOTTIftT1
reckless. B^h^exea-feeLit. Many couples afterwards explajii
ffieir misEaEen judgment Tiy saying that p)he commonplaceyof
marriage^the disregard of careful manner^ and careful dress^the
gross familiarity, the assumption of ownership and personal
claims, as well as the quickness of temper and criticism, bring
them out of the dream state, and reveal the realities in their
ugly hueg. But if marriage had been induced by the attraction
of magnetism, as we shall show conclusively in this study, the
very things that seem repelling would be regarded as quite the
opposite.
That th^sexual appetite is^o^jngjbi^a^eneer is jaroyed by
the fact that couples who love each other devotedly at one
time7^3eveIopTater on a T^and ofTSatred that^surpasses^aUJ&e
firebrands o'f mafcejbhat were everJtmrjed at human hearts.
The surf sets on the newly-weds with a smile and a^ glow of
raSIahce that promises a happjjfuture^ The sun rises on.^the
same newIy^e^s^^3~scofcEes^ their Jovejnto^ aJburnt cinder.
A single mght mayjnake^ aUjbhe difference there is in fife. A
montE"ciay"remove all the veneer.
LESSON TEN
THE GREED SUBSTITUTE
NUMERICALLY
CONSIDERED this inborn trait of
human nature is fully as much in evidence as any
of the other appetites. In fact a great analyst
of life has made the assertion that all four appetites,
stomach, sexual, greed and spiritual, are divided with an
almost equal representation in each, and are all fully taken
advantage of as substitutes for magnetism. The latter quality
is the power to win ;
and this power is invoked by an appeal to
the stomach in foods and drink, with marked success, but is not
so readily commercialised for profit as are the remaining three
appetites. Yet it is as universal as hunger, and necessarily so,
for life depends on feeding.
It is doubtful if great financiers or business men can be
swayed beyond their judgment in any appeal to the stomach,
unless they fall before the temptation of drink. But the great
American statesman, Daniel Webster, was easily overcome by
drink. Enormous fees in his law practice, in one case reaching
twenty thousand pounds, slipped through his fingers into the
hands of friends who plied him with whisky ;
and just before
he took to his bed in his last sickness, he was described by the
historian as the mos^magnificent wreck humanity ever pro-
duced. During his last years hi$ whole career was compromised
tEroiigt the same influence,/ The term vampire that is now
applied to women who seek out men of wealth in order to gain by
an appeal to the sexual appetite what they could not win by
legitimate attractions, recognizes a firmly established profession,
and a numerous division of humanity. They could not thrive
unless their victims lost the power of resistance.
Greed is the third appetite.
It is not found in any life below man. No animal is greedy,
despite the fact that some will store away their supplies for the
6)
THE GREED SUBSTITUTE 63
winter, and others will over-eat at times. But greed, in the sense
that it sways them beyond their powers of judgment in
securing the existence that has been allotted them, is wholly
absent.
This is not true of humanity. Some psychologists claim that
greed is a mental disease ;
some a nervous disease ;
some that it
is born of the fear that old age will bring poverty when the
earning capacity is gone. It is the duty of this study to guide
all its students into conditions of safety in all matters.
Magnetism provides in absolute certainty safety against
poverty or the loss of the means whereby to live. It is an old
adage, but a good one, which says that every year should
find every one in
Jbetterjneans. This is one form of mental
magnetism, of which there are many waiting to help men and
women in the struggle of existence. We will repeat this more
prominently :
Magnetism teaches and shows the way by which every year
will find every one in better means ; which, being explained,
sets up the law that all persons who acquire magnetism become
better off financially every year of life. Before this work is
ended this fact will be proved over and over again. Then all
fear will cease, such as makes people tools of scheming and
crafty men, who, like harpies, seek to rob them of their savings.
Every one of the four appetites is a substitute for magnetism.
Every one of thj^ acjcqn^
magnetism might accomplish, with the j^fferaace^that Jbhe
former bring Hisaster,~losj3 and suffering, while the latter bring
permanent success. The things that are sought by an appeal to
thelove^Tlbod and drink may be better attained by magnetism.
The legitimate ends of sex appeal, such as honourable marriage,
or appreciation of the attractions of the opposite sex, or the
many other goals to which this appetite drives people, may be
attained by magnetism.
That men and women are greedy is too widely known to be
discussed ;
but the knowledge is capitalised to an alarming
extent at all times and under all circumstances. The victims of
this crafty profession, if fully alert after one experience, learn
to suspect everybody and every motive ;
and seldom fall again
into the clutches of the birds of prey. Ordinarily, however,
when a man is once cheated, he gets into another kind of trap
64 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
that is differently baited. It is the taut that lures him. His
suspicions are directed only against the former kind of bait.
The following example is a key to some of the methods employed
to appeal to the greed of humanity.
A man had been led to invest largely in a certain company,
and was told of the earnings of other similar companies that had
in fact made their owners very rich. Having the proof of the
latter claim, he believed that this new company would be
successful ;
so he invested, and eventually found that his shares
were worthless.
/The first bait was the lure of gain or his greed
for large profits. He was told that if nothing was ventured
nothing would ever bejj&uie4v This mental^ proposition is not
generally trufi^^j^toatal magnetism tells usjii^^^
entured nothing^w^TBelogtl] It would have been true in his
case at Tea^fTor he parted with more than half his fortune in a
venture that was not warranted by his financial condition. If
he had kept his money in safe investments at a low
interest, he would have had enough for himself and his family
to live on during life, with a small but sure annual excess to be
laid by under the law of mental magnetism stated on a preceding
page which says that with the aid of magnetism every person
may be bettgrjpff financially every vgar of life^
Figure out these laws of mental magnetism.
Here is a man with sufficient capital to support himself and
his family comfortably during life, with a yearly surplus to lay
by for the satisfaction of doing it, and without a trace of greed.
In his desire to win greater wealth he ventures on a new scheme,
and finds himself deprived of half his income and unable to
live comfortably. He believed that if nothing was risked,
nothing would be won ;
but mental magnetism says that if
nothing is risked nothing will be lost. The situation we have
described has been experienced millions of times ;
and men have
gone down to the grave with broken hearts because of their
greed. Coal mines, gold mines, copper mines, silver mines, oil
wells and countless other allurements have brought this disaster
to investors who have sought to follow in the footsteps of
successful men.
Here is another law of mental magnetism. We have said
that such laws are numerous, and that a few of them will meet
us in this work, but they in fact are almost unlimited, and have
THE GREED SUBSTITUTE 65
required the publication of a very large work (Mental
Magnetism) to teach and explain them, which work the
author has dedicated to the students of the present work.
We must include at this place one of the most potential of
such laws as far as guidance to investments is concerned.
It is this :
Any stocks or shares in any get-rich-quick concern
that people are solicited to buy, if one-tenth as valuable as
claimed, will be quickly absorbed by men of wealth. They
never go begging. There is too much money now invested
at three per cent interest and less to remain there if anything
of real worth is to be had in place of such holdings.
Let us look at the manner in which a man who has been once
victimised, falls a second time into a trap when the bait has
been changed.
The man who bought the shares in the worthless company,
locked them up in his safe where they lay for a few years
when a very impressive gentleman called upon him and asked
if he was the owner of shares in that company. He was, and he
emphasised the fact with the usual language. The visitor,
unruffled, calm as a pond in a dead wind, smooth and con-
vincing, merely remarked that the company was about to
begin operations as a great vein had been discovered much
larger than the first, and a syndicate of well-known capitalists
proposed to buy enough of the outstanding shares to control
the reorganisation. But if they could not get a majority of the
stock, they would drop the matter. He was soliciting options
at a price that was about double what this victim had first
paid for his shares. Would he make an option at those figures ?
Yes. No delivery was to be made, nor any certificates passed ;
merely an agreement to sell at a very attractive figure.
That evening this man was in a jolly mood. Life had turned
roseate again. In the course of time a letter that was typed on
an engraved letter head, with many names of officials having
offices in a suite of rooms in a great building in a great city, was
delivered to him saying that the deal might not be consummated,
as it was impossible to get enough stock to control a reorganisa-
tion ;
for holders, hearing the good news, were seeking even
higher prices. Also a rival syndicate was bidding more money
for the shares. A few days later another man of impressive
talking powers called, and stated that he represented the
5
66 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
rival syndicate, and offered fifty per cent more for the shares.
The prospective victim said that he had given an option to the
first syndicate ;
but the stranger informed him that the option
had a time-limit which had expired. While this conversation
was going on, there came a wire from the first visitor, asking
that the option be extended for a month under a promise of
still better prices. Wishing to be safe the man decided to
extend the option. The second visitor went away muttering
his disappointment.
The mind of the victim was asleep.
In a few days the first visitor returned and said that his
syndicate needed only a small block of shares to have control ;
that a certain man held just enough of this stock to meet the
requirements ;
but could not be given any information from the
syndicate ;
his shares must be bought by some stranger, and
were for sale at the price paid plus interest, which was fair
all round. This small block, added to the block already held
by the victim, would complete the deal ;
and a contract was
brought out signed by the officials of the syndicate agreeing to
pay for both blocks of the stock, if the victim would agree to
buy the second block. Seeing the opportunity to recoup his
former losses and to add materially to his capital, the man did
enter into this agreement, and did in fact buy the second block
of shares, which nearly depleted his remaining capital. But
after the purchase, he found himself in possession of two blocks
of worthless shares, and nq^er heard again from either syndicate ;
nor could he find the office building in which the first one
claimed to have a suite of rooms. The bait had been changed,
pid he fell twice into well-laid traps.
Had this man been a student of personal magnetism, he
would not have fallen into either trap ;
nor would he have been
compelled to face old age broken, disheartened and dependent
on the charity of others.
This experience is being repeated times without limit ;
and
even as we write we are sure that there are millions of men and
women who are enduring the pangs of regret and suffering as
the result of the greed of others who have made use of their
greed m order to rob thejoa_gf_the savings of a lifetime.
P Personal magnetism brings 'complete Independenoe^of all
[attempts t<ij>aj^ad\^i^^ or will-power.
THE GREED SUBSTITUTE 67
We do not believe that any person who has read this lesson
will allow the mind to be clpuded. or the will-power deadened
TTy the substitute for magnetiMnJknown as greed. It has been
our work to teach the methods whereby unnecessary losses are
avoided.
LESSON ELEVEN
THE SPIRITUAL SUBSTITUTE
HERE
WE COME TO THE FOURTH and final nature
of humanity in earthly existence. If a group of
thinking persons were to be asked what of this group
is the strongest appetite, the first reply might place the
stomach demand ahead of the others. Then as the matter
was given more serious attention, the sex impulse would come
to the front. Still again there would be many reasons why
greed is to be regarded as the most common and most
insistent. The fact is that all four are equally distributed in
the activities of life.
The stomach appetite is seemingly paramount because the
body must live, and to live it must be fed. Yet every body that
lives must die ;
and as long as death is at one end of life, with
birth at the other, so long will the spiritual appetite demand
feeding. For this reason, ever since man first came &iMjjjjji
fo
nc^
bftBi^
AAr> n
23^r^!S!JjQ" ffl*
fin
tJffiJr
2J^
ftTna ^ death,ythe chief
nd has beenreHg^njr In the ages of savagery,
percenti
ol^airnumari^Beings were religious ; wHal they
could not discern they invented, but always in the same way
and for the same purpose.
No normal person to-day wishes to die. Nor does any normal
person omit the study of the problems of birth and death.
Every normal mind thinks of these mysteries, and seeks infor-
mation at every source where it is possible to attain it. No
matter what the result or what the convictions, this normal
condition is spiritual.
Every appetite may be taken advantage of by crafty persons,
and thus used as means of gain either in money, property,
influence or power. In the earliest age of savagery the demands
of the stomach and of the sexual nature were held in check and
not used as means of gain or greed by superior minds, as is now
68
THE SPIRITUAL SUBSTITUTE 69
the case. Nor were there sufficient attractions in greed among
the masses to incite the appeal in that direction. This left
to the leaders and upper castes the greater field of the spiritual
appetite. Influence, power, rule, homage and contributions
were the price paid to a select upper class by the terrified
middle and lower classes ;
nor did the superior minds hesitate
to teach and preach every kind ofjear. based on the mysteries
of death and the hereafter, if they could retainthdrhpld o^ the
people in that way.
~Tn every tribe there was the central control composed of
priests and teachers and those who shared the spoils wit^thfiia,
an3 fib thTs centre there flowed an unceasing stream of contribu-
tions and homage. These leaders kept the^people in a continued
state of terror. The images that were worshipped were like-
nesses supposed to be of the devils that hovered over all living
things ;
and these were used to supplement the threats and
terrors that attended all persons. No matter how much
wealth a man had in herds or in grain, or even gold, there was
no hesitancy in parting with it when demanded in the names of
and the spirit of contributions has been
SepFalive in all the ages that have come and gone. It is only
in the most recent times that these contributions made to the
churches have been devoted to the uses for which they serve
a rightful purpose.
In times past practically no man or woman refused to give
freely in the cause of religion, and now a large majority of the
people support liberally both the church and the charitable
organisations ;
for charity is a part of the spiritual nature.
Every appetite properly fed, and properly controlled, is a bless-
ing. To give to the stomach the foods that make it a perfect
organ whereby it may give health to all the body, is doing the
most good in that direction. To employ the sex appetite in the
manner intended by Nature, is likewise doing good. Greed
when its name is changed to careful saving of surplus earnings,
is always a desirable trait. So the support of religion, the
support of charity, and the study of thejreoblems of life_and
djtoth.fc folly normal, and most commendable.
It is The misuse of them, the attempt to take advantage of
others by crafty minds who know human appetites and their
value in securing control over those who are swayed by them,
70 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
that is reprehensible. How many persons who have just buried
their loved ones, are induced when in a state of emotion, to
part with their wealth at the solicitation of those who know how
to prey on this spiritual appetite ? And how many more persons
who themselves had come to their own death-beds, have been
induced even while perfectly sane to give their property away
in the name of religion ? We are not passing judgment on
the matter either one way or the other ;
our only purpose being
to depict the trait called the spiritual appeal.
The spiritual appetite, as we have said, embraces charity,
and it also includes all mystery worship, such as superstition,
and the search for occult phenomena. In this free and
enlightened country there are millions of people who believe in
the existence of the spirit world, and the communication of
spirits with mortals. In the name of this belief countless
thousands of crafty minds have exacted a big toll in the way
of contributions and money. More than two millions believe in
theosophy, and several other millions in kindred teachings ;
while the Hindoo influence of transmigration, transmutation,
metempsychosis and all sorts of happenings after death,
has saturated certain sections of this country. Probably all
such cults came out of India, and are related. It is predicted
that if the prevailing religions crumble, those of ancient India
will take their places.
Nearly every man and woman is superstitious ; jtnd nearly
a^of them denj^ it. SupeFsffEIon was once the mother oFall
savage religion,
andL
it is
asjiatural a^anylorm^
ortEe^lpufCual
appetite.
~~
We believe that without a noble religion and without the
churches, life on earth would not be worth living ;
no person
would be safe ;
and property would have no value because it
would have no protection. In any great city the police depart-
ment will tell you that religious belief and church influence
are greater aids in the suppression of crime than all the laws,
courts and police combined. But we accord to every man and
woman the full right to believe according to their own con-
victions.
Our purpose in this study is to show that a power that is
inherently good may be used to take advantage of people at
times when they are brought into spiritual hunger by public
THE SPIRITUAL SUBSTITUTE 71
or private calamities, or are swayed by too deep an emotion of
fear or dread.
Charity, as we have said, is a part of the spiritual nature ;
and knowing this there are countless bodies of organised solic-
itors in the name of charity which so follow up the people
that escape is not creditable. Most contributors respond in
fear of being harmed either socially or in their business. Thus
the same spirit of prey is at work in the best of good causes.
There are many organised bodies engaged in charity who
absorb from fifty to eighty-five per cent of the contributions
in their salaries and other expenses. You do not feel as if your
money were going in the right direction if more than half of it
is spent in collecting and handling it. The question may arise
what kind of charity spirit prevails in the giving of funds to
such organisations, especially by business men who know full
well that omission to contribute would be whispered here and
there and may affect their business. Every business man and
professional person is known, is listed, and his contributions
are recorded and even given publicity. He is therefore more
or less compelled to give in self-defence, and not in the true spirit.
Referring again to the uses of j^ejitalj^
in human conduct we find another law helping us through this
better influence ;
and it is this : The best charity j
that,
which helps men^jmd^^
'to"tEeaseives ;
not that which merely sustains them in a state
oflielplessriess. Teach the true spirit of independence ; give
freely of money and time to this end ;
and help people help
themselves.
In America, surprising as it may seem, there are eight
hundred thousand professional and non-professional fortunej
tellers who employ the so-called visits of spirits from the
spirit world to tell their clients what the future has in store for
them. It is estimated that of the population of America,
numbering possibly close to one hundred and twenty millions,
if a census were secured, it would be found that some time in the
past or present, fifty millions of them have visited spirit-
fortune tellers and paid good money in return for messages
from the spirits. The majority of these clients do not believe
what they are told. But many do, and are so completely
swayed by this belief that they are easily victimised.
72 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
A familiar cheat is the spirit-fortune teller in America who
charges for general services, but will not accept fees for advice
as to how to safely invest money. The events proceed somewhat
as follows : The client has money to invest or may have good
Chares paying low interest and wishes to find a higher rate.
The fortune teller goes into a trance and, after some difficulty,
figures out the names and addresses of several brokers, some of
them well known and reliable, but one in particular is the most
honourable and the most honest of them all. His name and
address are scrawled on a piece of paper. Certain shares are
just ready to rise ;
if secured without delay a fine profit will
be obtained. No time must be lost. On coming out of the
trance the spirit-fortune teller does not know what is written
but says that if the spirit told it, there could be no doubt about
it. The client is as sure of the honesty and reliability of the
advice as that the sun will rise again ;
so hastens to the broker
who is the most honourable of them all, parts with good money,
or with high-grade shares, and buys worthless stock in exchange.
This and similar methods of defrauding people who have faith
in the spirit world, are robbing them by the thousands in the
United States. It is greed making use of the spiritual appetite,
and the latter uniting with greed sometimes, but generally
seeking only honest investments, though lured into bad ones
by falling prey to the power of the spirit appeal.
A person who lacks magnetism allows the mind to enter into
a cTSuHnffT^Mclr^Tffl
tEougEtsiand beliefsTEaFcome Irom^tEeFsliiinds are active.
Suspicion IQEo^ohly safety-valve left to sucE persons ";
ancl
this trait works bqth_ways^.lj|y^?/^tKeltppfoach oFFraud ;
and it leaves^the mind stalled in the ~deepTwTT5
v
3S" IrT e~very
trai^actior^ fib^L^rogfessive mules.
Magnetism.J^uickly^ disperses the^cKu3irania"'IBS' Is Boo3feS
LESSON TWELVE
MENTAL MAGNITUDE
WARFARE
AND VICTORY jM^oidam^
as mea^^
_jicts of in&tiacts~jas_.^ appetites. TEe
latter are established so that, when properlyHoseS, they
may carry on existence in a necessary manner to necessary
ends. But as
theyjxre esse^^^
chargecn^^ "Eike electricity, if given free scope, the
excess kills. Because of the dangers locked up in the four
appetites, we are compelled to carry on a most obstinate
warfare against them, and., wage it untiljbhggg>_can be no doubt
utcome-
p^
^
be permanent._[
"TJnTiI"This~victory has been achieved, magnetism will be
kept on the defensive, and we have learned that any person or
cause that remains always on the defensive, is under adverse
control.
We have found that it is better to wage the war at the very
beginning of this study ;
to understand what is threatening
success ;
to meet the issue manfully and squarely, and to win
the greatest victory of life.
TJigJJoal ofJ5?5^^i?^J:l.i
(
L^^L-
If you carfwin nowj*^ you can
mn^ythiB&j^^ ISMj^isli.
Put this to the test.
There are two classes of enemies working against magnetism :
1. Those that are inborn or natural.
2. Those that are acquired.
When both classes of enemies are overcome the result is
natural personal magnetism, or that high grade of power that
is called a gift ;
and it is always better to possess natural gifts
73
74 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
than those that must come from hard lifelong struggle, taking
too much time and effort. This distinction is so important that
it should be kept always in mind.
The inborn or natural enemies of magnetism are the Four
Appetites that we have described. In this lesson our work is to
show the way of giving them one great battle and thus secure
a victory that will never be wrested from the winner.
It is an old saying and a true one that he who rules himself
is
greater than he who rules a city. We can extend it to read
that he is greaJBE than the grandest king who ever lived. In
ruling yourself, you must win over the two classes of enemies ;
over the Four Appetites ;
and over the foes that you have
acquired and taken into your camp as associates. Here we
have the story of nations and organisations told over again in
tabloid form. Everybody and everything has two enemies,
those without and those within. Every nation has had this
twofold danger. Napoleon, the greatest master of mental
magnetism when in his successful career, made use of another
law that served him well. Just as soon as a successful campaign
was ended and he had come home to France to give attention
to its needs, the usual unrest and intrigue began, and foes within
were eating at the vitals of the nation. To offset this he invented
stories of danger from foes abroad. The effect of this law is
that a threatening outward enemy will cause a disintegrating
inward condition to mend itself. Home enemies unite to fight
a common cause such as an outward enemy. The plan succeeded
even to the end of his reign.
The process we employ herein begins with the overcoming
of the outward or natural enemies ;
then we proceed to drive
out of camp the hidden foes that are lurking there to destroy
our newly acquired power.
This lesson we have named Mental Magnitude, or the great-
ness of the mind as an agent of warfare. The battle is waged
in a series of steps. The first step is to recognize the Four
Appetites. The second step is to recognize the nature of each.
The third step is to recognize the danger attending the activity
and control exerted by each. The fourth step is an honest
inventory of the influence over your life and habits resulting
from whatever control they exercise over you. The fifth and
final step is to create within yourself a Mental Magnitude
MENTAL MAGNITUDE 75
sufficient to completely master the Four Appetites. Let us
unfold this method :
1. The Four appetites are the stomach, the sexual, the greed,
and the spiritual.
"""""
2. The nature of each has been fully explained in the lessons
just preceding this ;
and they should be thoroughly reviewed.
3. The danger attending the activity of each in its control over
you, is indicated very fully in these lessons. What you should
do is to make yourself familiar with them.
4. The fourth step is to be taken now, and with it the final
step, the creation of Mental Magnitude, or a mind big enough
to make you ruler of yourself, and therefore greater than he who
rules a city or a nation.
There are several vital laws that are at work in establishing
this power and these we will state in simple form so that they
may be easily understood : r-
FIRST VITAL LAW -.Mental Magnitude is a form of
personal power that is greater than the combined power of the
Four Appetites.
SECOND VITAL LAW : Mental Magnitude, by enabling
a person to escape the attitude of being continually on the
defensive in life, which means being under adverse control,
brings immediately to every man and woman who acquires this
Magnitude the power of personal magnetism as a natural gift.
THIRD VITAL LAW : Mental Magnitude, working in
another channel of influence, tends towards the development of
the power known as the control of mind over matter. It is a
very great step in that direction^
FOURTH VITAL LAW : While the control of mind over
Matter is now present only as an instinct, and in very crude
form, it is greatly increased by the building up of Mental
Magnitude in developing personal magnetism as a natural gift.
FIFTH VITAL LAW : Mental Magnitude is readily
acquired and firmly established by the practice of shifting the
defensive attitude to that of the aggressive, and thus removing
all adverse control.
SIXTH VITAL LAW : The mental determination acting
in any direction, if given sufficient strength, is capable of
accomplishing the greatest things in life ;
on the principle
that what a man determines with all the power of his mind to
76 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
do, he will do, and nothing can prevent the consummation
sought. It is readily seen that we are laying the foundation
of personal magnetism as a natural gift.
SEVENTH VITAL LAW : The simplest and at the same
time the most effective method of practising mental determina-
tion is had in the system known as the Regime of Mental
Magnitude. This will appear in the next lesson.
Books might be written on the subject of the control of Mind
over Matter in its now crude form, in which it appears chiefly
as visitations of instinct. But what its purpose is, as it now
influences humanity, is not known. The familiar example of
this crude form is seen in the oft- quoted case of the man
who comes home hungry and sits down to a generous dinner,
well prepared and highly inviting. He has eaten a part of the
meal when a telegram is handed him, which he reads. The blood
leaves his face and he is deathly pale, the gastric juice refuses
to flow into the stomach and his partly eaten dinner remains
undigested. His appetite, which was vigorous, is gone. Yet
all that has happened is the intelligence, conveyed to his mind,
that he has lost his entire fortune in an unfortunate investment.
His respiration drops to almost nothing ;
his heart is barely
able to carry on its beating ;
and his whole body totters as
he proceeds from the table to his room above where he falls
upon the bed. It is not difficult to understand why he suffers
mental anguish, but why the influence of his mind should
control the material body Is a mystery. Every function is
subjected to the mastery of his thought.
This is only one of many thousands of instances showing
that the mind can and does control the body ;
or in other words
that there is such a thing as the control of Mind over Matter.
It is not alone bad news that will affect digestion. Good news
plays its part both ways. Another oft-quoted example is found
in the case of a very beautiful young lady whose parents were
rich enough to give her all the comforts and luxuries of life ;
and who yet fell into anaemic ill-health and could not be brought
back to a normal condition. Every possible method and treat-
ment were tried, but in vain. At length her parents began a
campaign of discussion and preparation for a magnificent trip
abroad, including visits to places that held great attractions
for her. Books, pamphlets and folders were read and studied ;
MENTAL MAGNITUDE 77
and she was advised to make an itinerary for the journey.
Still she did not show any signs of getting better. Then the
doctor made the following mental experiment ; consisting of
a long letter which he wrote in apparent confidence to her
father, in which he said that the young lady was not well enough
to undertake so great a trip abroad ;
some day she was sure to
get well ;
but not now ;
and the journey must be postponed to
a future year. By seeming accident this letter fell into her hands.
She read it, and replaced it, and said not a word. But her mind
took on at once the mental determination to get well. She
resolved to get well. She did get well.
Ordinarily the prospect of a trip abroad or some pleasing
venture will increase the health when other means fail ;
but
such improvement is generally temporary. On the other handy
when the MIND sets itself into a fixed determination,jreal .and
lasting results follow. This is a well-known law of psychology.
Great doctors employ it. The public statement of Thomas A.
Edison, who was probably one of the greatest men who ever
lived, all things considered, asserts that his grandfather and
also his_fother_bpth died by th^ We
quote here the exact words of Mr. Edison published some years
ago in a leading magazine :
"
My grandfather ate carefully
and lived to be one hundred and four. No disease killed him.
He was perfectly well up to the time that he died. He lost
interest in life. The cells of which his body was composed
were anxious to get away. So my grandfather told his children
that he was going to his daughter's house to die. He went to
her home ;
undressed ;
went to bed ;
AND DIED. There was
nothing the matter with him. He was simply tired of life.
And my father died the same way. They had found that the
secret of long life and perfect health lay in right eating. As
for me I eat only because I want to live. As a result my body
is not poisoned with decaying, surplus food. My arteries are
as soft as a child's."
There are published in books many instances of the power of
the mind over the body ;
of the mental magnitude thatjnstead
of being swayed andjm^^ %g-.9fJjj*gjj!P
ur
Ap|^^ rises
superiorjx) them all7 an3
masters them. JJj^ this Jjrocess have come the great men and
women of the~w5rI3.
LESSON THIRTEEN
MENTAL MAGNITUDE REGIME
FOLLOWING
THE TEACHINGS of the preceding
lesson we come to the mental exercises that are prepared
for the purpose of developing the power there taught.
We strongly advise that the several Vital Laws and all that is
said prior to and following them, be reviewed so as to be fully
understood, as they are charged with the mission of completely
revolutionising your life. Until this study is undertaken,
all persons with so few exceptions as to seem none at all, are
subject to adverse control, due to the influence of the Four
Appetites ;
and it is here that the battle must be fought and the
victory won. Then will come the established habit of meeting
aJLother forms o? adverse control, and of conquering all opposing
|orcejgbether arisin^from^othejke^ons or from conditionsT
Faith in your ability to establish some form of contFol 01
Mind over Matter is helpful, but not essential. There are
phases of life where the power of faith is very potent, but we
do not deal with them. We do not face the excuse that is given
when failure comes, that the faith is too weak. Yet we do not
undervalue the advantage that comes from its exercise. Our
position is this :
^Mental^determination is all-powerful, and
whencarrted^
in a marked degree in the formation of the control of Mind over
Mettler.' TKsls done by the pracSce ofmental exercises ;
and
these we will give here in their most useful and serviceable
arrangement, in the systems known as
MENTAL MAGNITUDE RfiGIME.
This Kegime appears in the form of mental determinations
made in the first person of grammar so as to bring them home
more firmly to the mind of the student.
78
MENTAL MAGNITUDE REGIME 79
We deal in turn with the Four Substitutes which are the
source of the adverse control that keeps all persons on the
defensive and so enables them to cultivate personal magnetism
as a natural gift. These are :
1. The Stomach Substitute.
2. The Sex Substitute.
3. The Greed Substitute.
4. The Spiritual Substitute.
The mental determinations are as follows :
1. I will review at this place the lessons that relate to the
Four Substitutes ;
and I will also review the lesson next
preceding this, entitled Mental Magnitude, with especial
attention to the Vital Laws therein.
2. I understand what is meant by adverse control which
arises from the power of these appetites over human nature.
3. I understand that these appetites are substitutes for
magnetism, in that they are employed by crafty persons in
order to win influence over other persons, and to gain unworthy
ends.
4. I understand that any substitute for magnetism is a
veneer and does not bring permanent success.
5. I will not permit my mind to be blinded by the efforts of
the opposite sex to influence me through any form of sex appeal.
6. The excessive use of facial make-up I will regard as an
effort to conceal a dirty and yellow skin ;
and tricks of a
similar kind I will look upon as methods intended to mislead
my judgment.
7. On the other hand I will give my attention in preference to
any one whose complexion is as close to Nature as good taste
should permit ;
on the theory that good health and cleanliness
of blood speak for themselves when allowed to show themselves.
This fact I will not forget.
8. I will not be influenced by the appeal to the sex appetite
in the manner of dress ; the exposure unduly of the legs and
the upper part of the torso.
9. On the other hand I will prefer the person who retains as
much modesty as is possible without going to the extreme of
prudery ; allowing always for the convenience of dress brevity
as a help to activities, but not for unnecessary brevity.
80 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
10. I will not engage in any form of dajicing that is intended
to excite the sex appetite, nor will I encourage any such dancing
anywhere.
11. I will do all in my power to aid the law in the suppression
of many commercialised forms of dancing, especially of certain
types of dance halls, and the cabarets that are places of assigna-
tion.
12. If I am not married I will delay that step until I have
mastered the study of magnetism as presented in this book, so
that the marriage may be made with a view to permanency and
happiness.
13. If a woman, I will mentally uncover the veil that obscures
the future conditions of wedlock, and I will not be swept unduly
into a marriage that may not stand the test of opposing forces
coming into conflict when the veneer has been removed. I will
look cautiously ahead.
14. I will not permit the need of support, or the appeal to
greed to draw me into a marriage that is not founded on a
sound basis.
15.1 will not permit any improper familiarity with the opposite
sex, even under the pretence of affection or love, and I will
hold myself aloof until marriage in order that I may retain the
respect of the opposite sex, and be held in a higher regard.
16. I am determined not to believe the protests and pretences
that are made in order to induce me to change my reserve, nor
will I place credence in promises, artificial ideals and gilded
hopes of the future such as lure many girls and women into
hasty and ill-considered marriages.
17. I will not believe that our marriage is to be the one
exception to the usual experience of disappointment and shock
when once the illusion has spent itself, and the hard facts of
two temperaments facing the crises of the new venture must be
met and mastered to avoid the cooling of ardour and consequent
estrangement. The future is to be judged by the past.
18. I will not be swept into any hasty marriage by any cause
or influence such as drives men and women, and especially
young folks into wedlock and its failure ;
but on the contrary
I will assert my power of mental determination to discover the
full effects of the step about to be taken.
19. lamjfu^^
MENTAL MAGNITUDE REGIME 8l
the speoieSjjseta up the sexual appetite in both sexes in order
4o hasten forthcoming marriages ;
and that fully one-half of
all marriages are caused by the trickeryjtfJNature in drawing
people together and maKmg^wedlock necessary ;
but I will
avoid beinglised In this scheme by retaining absolute control
over my inclinations and desires, and keeping safely outside the
limits of temptation.
20. In order to carry out the last determination, I will form
the mental habit of looking with one hundred per cent suspicion
on all questionable or doubtful lures set in motion by the
opposite sex ; knowing that, whatever temporary loss I may
sustain, the future will bring its full rewards in happiness.
21. Assuming that ninety per cent of all marriages are,
ill-assorted and wretcEed, and even when not broken by
estrangement are filled with a lifetime of regrets, I will follow
the later lessons of this book in order to avoid this fate.
NOTE : In this R6gime we have taken the second of the
Four Appetites out of order, as many mistakes due to hasty
action occur following this impulse, and lead to wretched lives
in which the ambition to succeed in other directions is destroyed.
We now proceed with the first Appetite.
22. I will avoid putting into my mouth or stomach anything
that may cause any drug habit, as drugs that stimulate, excite
or distort the nervous activities, make it impossible to develop
magnetism. .__
23. I will not smoke cigarettes Q3BSS8las these are in
most cases charged with some degree of habit-forming drugs,
the purpose being to fasten on the smoker an unshakable
slavery to the habit ; and any form of slavery is an adverse
control that makes the development of magnetism impossible.
24. I will not allow any person to influence my will or control
my decision in any matter by the temptation of drink, which
I know has been used as a substitute for magnetism in order to
serve the ends of crafty persons.
25. I will not allow an appeal to my appetite in any form to
be used to win from me any action that may put me to a
disadvantage in any dealing or matter of importance.
26. I will give heed to the statement of Mr Thomas A. Edison
in the preceding lesson on the subject of eating properly so that
the body may not
"
be poisoned with decaying, surplus food,"
82 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
for I know that there cannot develop in the system the natural
power of magnetism when this poisoning is present.
27. Like Mr. Edison I will eat for the purpose of living ;
and not live for the purpose of eating.
28. By reference to later lessons in this book I will take
advantage of the natural laws of health by putting into my body
only the elements that build the body, omitting all things that
cannot participate in the building of health and vigour.
29. I will not weaken my vitality by over-eating or over-
loading the system even with proper food.
30. I will take advantage of the law that says that a person
who eats all that the strength and vigour of the body require
and no more, so that he may come away from each meal not
fully satiated, but with a small percentage of hunger remaining,
will develop a high degree of natural magnetism, while the
person who eats to satiation carries a dead and stale condition
of the vitality for some time thereafter.
31. In matters where greed may induce others to take
advantage of me, I will develop the mental attitude of being one
hundred per cent suspicious of all persons and all motives ;
believing all persons who are in a position to cause me loss to
be one hundred per cent dishonest.
32. I will not allow my judgment of values to be warped by
the promise or hope of receiving more than a fair exchange
for what I pay in any dealing.
33. I will not cause loss to any person by selling anything at
an unfair price, or taking a larger return than is fair to me and
to such person.
34. I will not take advantage of the financial embarrassment
or distress of any person in order to gain something to which I
am not entitled in the fair exchange of values.
35. I will not indulge in the tricks so often used to induce
people to buy my goods.
36. I will not sign my name to any blank piece of paper, nor
to any written or printed paper having a blank space above my
signature ;
as safety may be obtained by heavily marking the
blank space with ink lines to prevent matter from being
written therein.
37. I will not write my name in any album or in any place
where, if the leaf were to become detached and were to fall into
MENTAL MAGNITUDE REGIME 83
the hands of unreliable people, something involving me in
obligation might be inserted.
38. I will avoid the trap of writing my name on blank en-
velopes, especially large ones, under the pretence of being needed
for identity, which envelopes could be so cut as to give oppor-
tunity for writing or printing a contract, power of attorney or
promise that would involve me in a loss.
39. I will not buy or sell any stocks or shares except through
a Bank or through a member of a Stock Exchange.
40. I will not endorse a note for another person ;
nor go on
the bond of another ;
nor engage to stand responsible for
another. My duty to my family takes precedence of all such
obligations, even for friends.
41. I will not seek a high rate of interest in place of a high
grade investment.
42. I will not believe the statement made so often by certain
people that they have not had a loss in a great many years.
When analysed this claim may be explained to mean anything.
43. I will so manage my savings as to retain at least some
part of them every year.
44. I will not follow the suggestion that if nothing is risked,
nothing can be gained ;
but will adopt the better suggestion
that if nothing is risked something may be saved.
45. When I have enough of this world's goods, I will not seek
an unnecessary excess at the risk of my health, my self-respect
or my good name ;
nor will I sacrifice these at any time in
winning a competence.
46. I will not go on piling up a great fortune to be left to
those who will not need it.
47. In the uses of charity I will avoid contributing to those
organisations whose expenses absorb from fifty to eighty
per cent of the moneys collected.
48. I will, whenever possible, make use of the method that
helps worthy people to help themselves and thereby become
independent of charity.
49. I will not tie up money for inheritance that can be put
into use in my lifetime, if such money is not needed by my
heirs. __.
[
50. No matter whether I am a church attendant or not, I
will study the usefulness of the church $a the world as the source
84 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
of civilisation, the teacher of morality and the only effective
agency of law, order and peace.
51. If I do not believe in a Supreme Ruler I will not seek to
influence others away from their beliefs, nor will I in any way
antagonize those who are sincerely trying to lead moral lives
in the name of religion.
xx 52. As belief in superstition is a form of fear, and fear is a
serious phase of adverse control greatly interfering with the
development of magnetism, I will from this moment on, as long
as I live, discard all belief in superstition, and pay no attention
to the popular claims of signs good and bad that are attached
to various happenings.
v/53. I will not exhibit a state of mental weakness by enter-
taining the fear of ghosts, spirits and occult phenomena ;
remembering that when the world was in its darkest period, all
humanity was depressed by this fear, which grows less with the
advance of knowledge and intelligence.
v'54. I will not be swayed in my life by beliefs in supernatural
happenings, visitations or spirit phenomena ; remembering
that men and women who so believe, and who shape the
activities of their lives to meet such belief, are always retro-
grading in their affairs and losing their influence in the world.
55. I will not follow the advice of any person supposed to
have been in a trance state ;
nor will I fall victim to the belief
that the person I consult is an exception to the general rule of
fraud and pretence.
56. I will not invest any money nor part with any values to
any person or for any securities recommended by a fortune
teller, or by any person who is supposed to have been in a trance
state.
57. As the spiritual appetite is natural and instinctive,
inborn and predominant in the world, I will study it and seek
to develop it in myself as the associate of that power that
brought humanity into existence and that must of necessity
direct and control the lives of all men and women who look in
that direction for guidance and sustaining help.
58. Kecognising the fact that, in this country alone, there
are millions of people who firmly believe in the existence of a
Supreme Deity, and further recognising the fact that a person
who unnecessarily antagonises a great belief always destroys
MENTAL MAGNITUDE REGIME 85
his influence among his fellow-beings and makes the power
of magnetism valueless, I will combine good judgment with
discretion in this matter, and respect the opinions of others even
though they do not agree with me.
59. Knowing that the spiritual appetite in its best estate is
inborn and inherent in humanity, that every normal person is
swayed by its instinctive influence, and that character and
well-being are greatly benefited and enhanced by developing
it to its highest degree as an agency of personal power, I will not
neglect this part of myself.
60. In the belief that all persons who are normal possess three
great departments of being physical, mental and spiritual
and that the cultivation of the powers of each will lead to the
highest degree of personal influence in life and thereby win the
respect and confidence of all those who may come to know me,
I will give attention to each of these three departments of
my being.
61. As sleep is typical of death, and death is the stimulating
cause of spiritual study, I will devote my last thoughts at night
to the consideration of my spiritual nature ;
and on the follow-
ing morning I will give myfijgt thoughts to the same subject^
It will be seen that one ofthe purposes of this system of train-
ing is to unfold in each life its all-round nature, on the following
principle :
A person who is only developed physically is never magnetic.
A person who is only developed mentally is never magnetic.
A person who is only developed spiritually is never magnet^g.
Only the all-round individual mi
highly magnetic ;
all others!
tye one-sided, warped and repellent.!
The person who disregards his spiritual character, and who
parades his boast that he does not believe in the power that
gave him life, soon separates himself from the healthy influence
of his fellow-beings, and is pushed to one side in the affairs of
this world.
Of course it is a matter of policy to follow the crowd, and there
are sticklers for personal pride and courage who think it
evidence of a superior mind to declare their antagonism to
prevailing beliefs ;
and this argument might have weight if it
were not founded on conceit and refusal to test the power that is
indicated in the items 60 and 61 in the foregoing list ; for
86 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
countless incidents prove the remarkable increase of personal
character and influence following the practice there described.
This system of Mental Magnitude Regime makes a man a real
man, and a woman a real woman. If studied in connection with
the two final Departments of this book, those of Applied
Personal Magnetism, and of Magnetic Healing, but more
particularly with the former of these two, it builds a personality
that becomes a dominating power in the world. No human
being can rise to great heights on nothing but desire and
planning ; there must somewhere be the real basis, the solid
foundation, the substance, and these come from what will
be learned as Values, or units of real worth. There must be
the richness of character, of mental development and of actual
achievement.
It will be shown in those final Departments that there are
three groups of mental faculties : those of the merely physical
functions ;
those of the reasoning functions ;
and those of the
inner self, which psychologists to-day term the subconscious
group. Magnetism rarely uses any mental groups except those
of the last-named faculties, and in all higher-class educational
institutions they are being studied to-day under the name of
psychology. They present the only part of human effort that
may be termed invincible ;
and what victories they are capable
of achieving will be found stated in the two final Departments
of this book.
Some people believe in life after death, and to them the phase
of change known as death is likened to sleep, which it is thought
was instituted to teach humanity in this life, once in every
twenty-four hours, the facts of passing away and of rising again
into life. Whether this similitude is warranted or not, the value
of the last waking moments at night as the key that opens
the secret chamber to the hereafter, or to the knowledge of the
life to come, is being brought home to the great experts of the
world ;
and the most remarkable results are being achieved
in making use of the powers that are thus revealed.
It is for this reason that the 61st item of this system of
Mental Magnitude Regime has been included in the list of
resolves.
DEPARTMENT OF
THE MAGNETIC EYE
LESSON FOURTEEN
MAGNETISM OF THE EYE
APOWER SUCH AS MAGNETISM is acknowledged
to be, must have means of use by which its influence
may be transmitted to other persons. The greatest
and most magnetic of English pulpit orators, Charles
Spurgeon, undertook to train young men for the ministry ;
and
among his most insistent claims was that every man who
wished to succeed as
^^I^U^. a Preac^er must
possess personal ^8^" J^^5^ magnetism; and if
he lacked it he ^ ^^jj^-^ \ should acquire it.
In America the most ^^^Jll^ ' successful of evan-
gelists was Dwight
^^ L. Moody ;
he also
taught young men and trained them in Bible classes for
ministerial work ;
and he made the same assertion in regard
to the value of personal magnetism.
Two of the greatest lawyers of international fame were
Webster and Choate. Both were magnetic in the highest degree.
Choate was called
"
The Ruler of the Twelve/' because he so
often won his cases when not opposed by a man possessing
magnetic powers as great as his. But when Choate was on one
side of a case and Webster on the other side, the real merits won.
We have talked often with men who were living during the
later years of these two great men. We also have talked with
a man who, while of greatly advanced years, was fully cognisant
of the successes of both lawyers, and who had been associated
several times in cases with Webster. From all we were able
to learn, the same traits prevailed with them that we had noted
in observing a number of the greatest men and women of our
own time.
88 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
But the popular idea of the magnetic eye was not manifested
in any of these persons. It is true that when aroused to a fever
heat of intensity the eye becomes unusually brilliant, and at
times has a piercing power ;
but this characteristic is not
present at any other time. In all other moods the eye is
seemingly ordinary as far as the general outward appearance is
concerned.
Investigation and study led to the discovery that the power
of the eye is not in that orb itself, but in the arrangement of
the surrounding parts of the face. Spurgeon in his grandest
moments, when he swayed his listening thousands by his voice
and action, displayed the strong facial earnestness that gave him
an almost sublime appearance. Moody was rarely fervid in a
vigorous way, nor would he have been called a great orator by
strangers who heard him for the first time ; yet his facial
expression that framed the eyes was clearly indicative of the
power of the man. Observers who had the opportunity to
witness Webster and Choate, agreed that in moments of great
intensity their eyes glowed like dark, deep burning coals. An
account is given of a conversation between Webster and an
obstinate business man who at first refused to accept the
lawyer's advice in a certain matter, but who was soon won over
by the advocate ;
and in this conversation Webster sat with his
eyes almost closed. His voice or manner or general presence
probably won the day.
These remarks are made to pave the way for a sensible and
practical consideration of this phase of our study.
But it cannot be denied that in the process known as
hypnotising, the eye is very helpful ;
and its use in that opera-
tion might well receive attention if this study included that
practice. We are dealing with an opposite power. Magnetism
wins. Hypnotism defeats the wifl of another person. A sleep-
producing drug puts the subject into slumber, but wins nothing.
A bludgeon may do the same thing. Advantages obtained by
rendering the subject helpless are a species of robbery. Hypno-
tisers cultivate a brilliant and glowing eye by training the
nervous system into a high degree of intensity. Any bright
object of small size held slightly above the line of vision
of the subject, thereby compelling the latter to keep the
gaze uplifted until it wearies, will produce hypnotic sleep in
MAGNETISM OF THE EYE 89
a person who can be thus controlled. The eye serves the
same purpose.
If there is an advantage in possessing a brilliant and glowing
eye, this acquisition may be placed easily within the reach of
any man or woman by the tensing exercise of this work.
Some women place a few drops of a chemical upon the eyeballs
to make them shine and glow ;
but the practice becomes hurt-
ful in time. It shows, however, the desire to have brilliant eyes.
The eyes in their size, shape and colour are often called
beautiful. Yet the size depends on the iris, as does the colour,
and the shape depends on the framing of the eye by the facial
arrangement. If you will study the changing moods of a highly-
bred cat, you will sometimes note affection, and this will be
depicted solely by the positions of the lids. Then surprise will
change the entire arrangement of the lids. Mood after mood
may follow, each being depicted by the lids and not by the eyes.
Choate said that he never stopped talking to a jury until he
thought that the last man had indicated by his eyes that he
agreed with him. In those days lawyers were not limited in
the length of their address in summing up their cases. We have
seen in later days, what Choate saw in his time, in the faces of
juries : the turning-point in yielding. Choate once said,
"
I
know how long to talk to a jury. I also know when to stop
talking."
The secret is not a great one, although it is important.
A person who holds an opinion opposing you will involun-
tarily raise the lower lid. This of itself signifies an analysis and
scrutiny of your assertions.! If the lower lid in addition to being
raised is brought in towards the nose, this expresses not only
hesitation to believe in your claims, but an affirmative obstinacy
which is intended to combat you to a finish, mentally speaking.
The mere raising of the lower lid is a normal action ;
but when
it is both raised and brought inward, it is a concentric and
combative action, f When the upper lid meets the normal
action, it indicates that the mind is at work trying to solve the
problem.
The upper lid tells a more common and more easily read
story.
If it is lowered and the eyeball is raised to meet it, although
not fully doing so, this shows that the mind has ceased to work
90 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
for the time being ;
and that the speaker whether in the court-
room, in the home, or in the office, is not reaching the thoughts
of the supposed listener. I To understand this position, practise
looking up to the ceiling, and shutting off the gaze by dropping
the upper lid half over the eyeball while keeping the latter in
the position of looking at the ceiling. In any form of con-
versation, as well as in addressing a jury, this phase of human
nature is always the same.
A magnetic person cultivates the habit of studying the effect
of his words upon listeners ;
and the eyes principally tell the
facts.
There are several positions of the upper lid with reference to
the eyeball that are assumed countless times every day by all
persons. We may list these positions as follows :
The centre of the eye is known as the pupil.
The ring around the pupil is called the iris ;
and its colour
gives to the eye the hue that is permanent.
The less the tension, or the calmer the person may be, the
smaller is the pupil. Temperament or heredity, or even
nervous disease, may make many changes in this opening.
Assuming it to be normal or nearly so, the purposes that control
the mind of a person are shown by the lids ;
and the upper lid
has the following gamut :
1. If the upper lid completely covers the pupil of the eye,
it indicates that the mind is not thinking closely, or may be
aimless, or wandering, or sluggish ;
but the principal fact is
that such a mind is not being subjected to magnetic control.
2. If the upper lid covers the top half of the pupil, the mind
is indifferent.
3. If the upper lid comes down as far as the top edge only of
the pupil the mind is attentive.
4. If the upper lid covers half the width of the top arc of the
iris, the mind is very attentive ;
and this is what Choate looked
for when he was talking to the jury, as he had come to that
point where he controlled their thoughts.
5. If the upper lid touches the edge of the iris ring, it indicates
that not only the mind is very attentive, but the feelings
have
been aroused. This is a double victory.
6. If the upper lid shows any thin line of white above the
iris, it indicates that the mind and feelings have been aroused to
MAGNETISM OF THE EYE 91
an excess, and that the person has lost control of them by the
springing into being of some strong emotion such as that of
anger, hatred, horror or other mood. It is not a normal
condition and should be avoided.
7. If the upper lid shows a wider line of white above the
iris, it indicates that the person has become transfixed with
fear, horror, insane ecstasy, or other similar mood, such as
might occur in the presence of a foe, apparition or wild animal.
These two last conditions have nothing to do with the study of
magnetism, but are stated in order to complete the gamut and
show how clearly the upper lid interprets the state of the mind
and the feelings.
The cultivation of personal magnetism includes the study of
life in all its moods, and shows the way to read and understand
the effects on others of any influence that may proceed from the
observer. In other words, the truly magnetic person is able
to read instantly the mind and moods of every person he meets.
The more one sees of these indications in the faces of others the
more confidence will be created in the ability to sway such
persons ;
and confidence in magnetism is exactly what faith is
in religion or in healing.
In a conversation with a very successful financier whose
magnetism had given him the leadership in his line of business,
we asked the question :
"
Do you realise that you possess the
power of personal magnetism ?
"
and the reply was made
quietly in the affirmative. We then asked,
"
Without personal
magnetism what would be your standing to-day in the financial
world ?
"
The reply was :
"
I would probably be a '
bucket-
shop
'
broker." One more question :
"
What is the most
useful phase of personal magnetism as a practical aid to business
or otherwise ?
"
He thought for a moment and said slowly,
"
The most useful, most practical and most valuable aid to a
man in business life, or professional life, or social life, is to know
the mind and feelings of those with whom you come in contact ;
to be able to size them up as the common saying goes ;
to read
in their faces what they think and how they feel towards
you."
It is by the observing eye that we learn to study the meanings
in the faces of others. Nothing is so beneficial to the mind, to
the eyes themselves, and to the personal character of the
92 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
magnetic individual as the practice of analysing the meanings
that are written clearly in the faces of people.
Magnetic persons are exceedingly observant.
The habit of constant observation of any details will help
to develop what is called natural personal magnetism. Most
persons see things in lumps or masses. A non-magnetic person
will see a face as a whole ;
a magnetic person will see its details.
There is a sect in India among the ancient high-class caste that
has acquired the highest known form of personal magnetism
solely by the process of separating masses into details, and
catching the details as separate units, each distinct ;
a process
that they have trained themselves to develop until it has
reached an unbelievably powerful state of control over their
fellow-beings.
If you will follow carefully each lesson in this system you will
recognise the fact that each accomplishment that is designed
to awaken and arouse the latent magnetism of the body, has a
wide field of practical usefulness in all other directions apart
from the study of magnetism.
This fact applies with direct force to the process of acquiring
the power of mental observation of details, in place of masses.
The process begins at once to build a mental acumen that
becomes a most important weapon in dealing with men and
women. As an example of what we mean, let us look back to
the preceding pages of this lesson. Ninety-nine persons in every
hundred study the normal face as a whole. If there is any
mark or evidence of injury, that is seen ;
but nothing more than
a face in general. There is no reading of the mind and feelings ;
no attempt to go behind the mask of the commonplace appear-
ance for the knowledge that is plainly written there./ Choate
once said to his partner during a resting period in his address,
"
The fifth man on the back row, and the second man in the
front row are not yet with me." After he resumed his address
and came to a pause for a drink of water, he said to his partner,
"
The back row man has yielded ; I have yet to get the front
row man." As he spoke he scanned the face of this last juror,
and soon read in the fine shifting of a muscle or two the story
of his victory.
This is the process of separating details from masses ;
lines
and fine movements in the face from the general appearance.
LESSON FIFTEEN
MAGNETIC DETAILS
FOLLOWING
THE OUTLINES set forth in the preceding
lesson, we take up the study of that process which has
produced such wonderful results in the manner there
stated. It is known as the practice of separating details
from masses. The clumsy mind sees everything in a mass
or what is called lumping it. There may be directly before us a
face that has the story of the mind and feelings behind written
in plain characters on its surface and yet the face remains a
mystery to the beholder. There is only the thinnest partition
between the story that the face reveals of the thoughts and
feelings behind it, and the actual reading of the whole mind.
In a series of experiments made by us with over two thousand
men and women during a period of fifteen years, we found that
it was possible for every person to learn to separate details
from masses ;
that in so doing by reading the face for the
thoughts and feelings of a person, in the manner stated in the
preceding lesson, the power of thought transference or practical
telepathy was instantly developed.
That such a power exists and indicates the purpose of Nature
to unfold a higher system of usefulness for the mind than has
ever yet been developed, is self-apparent. It should be
cultivated.
There are in daily transactions countless opportunities for
securing advantage if only we could know the plans and
purposes of those with whom we are dealing ;
or as a business
man said,
"
if only I could know what is in the other fellow's
mind." The power to read aright what is behind the features,
is half the battle in magnetism. From an analysis of the methods
employed by men and women who have achieved the highest
success in the world, it seems certain that they have come into
this power as a natural habit.
93
94 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Some persons are called uncanny who are only trained by
their own way of doing things to read and understand faces.
As we have said there is only the thinnest partition between
the easily acquired habit of reading faces and of reading the
whole mind. It is not a difficult thing to learn or to acquire.
It proceeds in two lines of development :
1. Learn what the eyes and the mouth indicate in the fine
details of position and movement.
~""~ "~
2. Practice the habit of observation of these positions and
movements as details in the mass appearance of the face.
We have referred to the eye positions only thus far, using the
term eye to include the framework about it as explained in the
preceding lesson. Two laws will help us at this stage :
The eye positions and movements stated in the preceding
lesson indicate the mental operations in chief, and the feelings
as secondary influences.
The mouth positions and movements indicate the feelings in
chief, and the mental operations as secondary influences. As
the finest shades of movement about the eye tell differing
stories of the mind, so the changes of movement and position
of the mouth tell different stories of the feelings. In order to be
able to acquire the habit of breaking up the lower face into
details as opposed to mass reading, it is helpful to learn in a
general way the meanings of the changes and positions of the
mouth, which are as follows :
1. There are two basic meanings :
2. The first basic meaning is that of the level mouth which
indicates normal feelings held in check and good reserve.
3. The second basic meaning is that of the lightly closed
mouth which indicates the feelings held in check and good
reserve. Thus the combination of these two basic meanings is
the highest ideal of character when the mind and feelings^are
normal. Both basic meanings coincide. If you will study the
portraits of fine men and beautiful women you will note the
union of these two meanings with variations that do not change
them, as when, instead of the mouth being lightly closed, it is
very nearly closed, or lightly open. The effect is the same,
except that as the mouth opens, the feelings become slightly
awakened, the opportunity for shading tfie meanings is a
valuable one in every way.
MAGNETIC DETAILS 95
4. There now enter two new meanings that are based on the
level mouth :
5. The level mouth closed in any degree from that of the
first position indicates a gamut running from the beginning of
slight firmness to that of strenuous determination. This gamut
contains at least a dozen degrees in the scale. It is worth
studying. You will meet every one of these degrees in the people
about you or in the faces of the great men and women of the
present and past.
6. Now the meaning shifts to the opposites. The level mouth
open in any degree from that of the first position of being
lightly closed, to that of being wide open, runs another gamut of
at least a dozen degrees in the scale showing the opposite
meanings from those of determination or firmness. So intricate
are these shades of varying meaning that it is not possible to
spend sufficient time to describe them. But the level mouth
when more than slightly open indicates that the feelings are
being transferred to the care of outside causes as a rule, and
occasionally to causes of interest, fear, alarm and even horror
set up by one's own thoughts and feelings.
If the level mouth is more than slightly open, something has
occurred to take away the determination or the affirmative
state of self-reliance, f If the upper lid of the eye falls and the
eyeball rises, and the mouth begins to open, the combination is
that so often noted when a person needs sleep ;
but this is
negative, and in the hands of a skilled hypnotist leads quickly
to a state of sleep through which the subject passes into another
kind of wakefulness attended by unconsciousness of the working
mind. This we do not teach but seek to guide our students in
the way to avoid it both as subject and manipulator. }
Assuming that the person is to remain awake and alert, the
gamut of meanings that run from normal to expanded interest,
is one of the most useful of all things to watch and to study.
If you will watch any person who is being addressed, you
learn quickly to what degree the interest in what is being said
is aroused. If an account of some incident is absorbing, every
listener will show not only relaxed lips, but mouths that open
gradually to meet the increasing interest. A preacher whose
description of some event was greatly interesting noted that
every mouth in his congregation was widely open. In another
96 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
instance a minister who had followed the sea before entering
the ministry was fond of depicting a great crisis on the ocean.
A flash photograph of his listeners just at ttiat stage where the
ship was about to sink unless saved by a seeming miracle,
showed every mouth wide open. This same condition appeared
at a meeting where the heroic deed of Captain Fry was being
told to the audience.
We have seen juries sit with mouths slightly open and as the
speech of a certain advocate increased in intensity these listeners
gave way more visibly to their feelings.
The main point to be learned is that as the lips separate
towards an open position, to that extent the speaker is winning
an influence over the person who is listening. To be assured
of a victory, it is only necessary that the lips be slightly open ;
but in any event the operation of this law is so interesting that
its workings are worth all the time given to detect and to
understand them.
We now come to two other laws as follows :
7. The lips raised above the level indicate approval or some
kindred meaning. The act of raising
occurs at the ends of the
lips.
8. The lips lowered below the level indicate disapproval or
some kindred meaning. The act of lowering occurs at the ends
of the lips.
The child who is pleased will begin to raise the ends of the
lips. If he is about to cry this condition is heralded by the
depressing of the lips. The term approval takes in a large
group of meanings but all along the same line, and there is a
well-defined gamut of change from the slight raising to the
excessive upward position. The term disapproval takes in a
large group of meanings ;
and there is also another well-defined
gamut of change from the slight lowering to an excessive
downward position. These gamuts furnish great opportunities
for training the mind of the observer ;
and the story of success
is written in the ability to separate details from masses.
There is no finer education in the world.
Even if it is not to be used in the practice of personal mag-
netism, it will serve in every department of life as the most
practical and useful of genuine accomplishments. The chief
power of this study is in the same fact applying to every step
MAGNETIC DETAILS 97
of the training ; as aids to the development of magnetism each
line of study is important in the highest degree ;
and at the
same time takes rank as possessing more value in all other
departments of life than any other kind of training.
The power to separate the details of the face into their
shades of meaning serves in four ways to help the student :
1. It gives him knowledge of what are the purposes, inten-
tions, thoughts and feelings of those with whom he comes in
contact ;
and this is half the victory in magnetism.
2. It leads close to that subtle power known as telepathy
which is a more or less natural gift with the great leaders of the
financial, business, professional and social worlds.
3. It is an ever-attendant aid in all other matters that make
up the daily activities of life.
4. It gives to the mind the most wholesome, invigorating and
stimulating development as a means of preparation for the
greatest achievements in the world ;
as a result of which the
mind grows^keener, stronger and far more alert in the exhila-
rating struggle for supremacy.
These four advantages apply not only to the present phase of
this training ;
but to all other phases of this system.
By way of review we will note that the mouth has three
positions in one line :
Normal or lightly closed or lightly open which is the same in
meaning.
Open in a gamut to wide open.
Closed in a gamut to tightly closed.
In another direction we find three other positions :
Level mouth, which is normal.
Raised lips indicating something akin to approval, in a
gamut of meanings.
Lowered lips indicating something akin to disapproval, in a
gamut of meanings.
Finally we come to combinations as follows :
Mouth level, through gradually wider opening, passing
through the meanings of normal, interest, enthusiasm, surprise
and astonishment, with intervening shades of meaning all along
the way ;
and also such indications as are described on a
preceding page.
Mouth raised with gradually widening opening, passing
98 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
through the meanings of normal approval, approved interest,
smiling, excited approval, mirth, laughter and finally hilarious
enjoyment, with intervening shades of meaning all the way.
Mouth lowered with gradually tightening of the closed lips,
passing through the meanings of disapproval, dissatisfaction,
discontent, until it reaches the well-known grouch.
Mouth lowered with gradual wider opening, passing through
meanings of disapproval plus interest, disapproval plus surprise,
and disapproval plus astonishment ;
the latter being the well-
known expression of horror, and the familiar picture of tragedy ;
while its opposite, the combination of astonishment with
approval being employed to depict comedy.
It is not our purpose to teach facial expression, nor the
painter's art, but to train the eye of our student in the practice
of separating details from massed conditions.
The value is not in merely reading faces, but in separating
details from masses. The result is a most POWERFUL
MAGNETIC EYE.
But we cannot expect any student to jump into the climax of
training without passing through the stages that must of
necessity precede the end to be attained. For this reason it
is important to enter into a line of practice that is of Oriental
origin, and that has given to those who have succeeded in it a
degree of personal magnetism that is astonishing. In the
preceding lesson we briefly referred to this practice. Now that
the facial details have been described we will pass into the
Oriental practice in the next lessons with a view of preparing the
way for returning to this lesson and continuing the work of
separating details from masses. The exercises that follow in
the next lessons not only develop the power desired, but give
the mind a keenness of action that puts it in the foreground of
human advantage.
The work now becomes intensely interesting and fascinating.
LESSON SIXTEEN
ORIENTAL SECRETS
CERTAIN
HIGH CASTE societies in the Far East
conceived the idea that by persistent practice the
power of the eye as the source of magnetism could
be developed to a degree that made it the weapon greatly
to be feared. We are not seeking that end, as we do not
think we live in an age when fear should rule mankind.
But there are other
"HKJTMft
reasons why the
excessive and un-
^^P^jjjSj^ usual power of the
human eye should jf ,/^^&\ ^e developed, and
these have been fully ^i^^Hl^ ' stated in the two
preceding lessons.
~^^ Behind these reasons
there exists still another which has been touched upon in
a past lesson and which will be further stated as we proceed ;
that of the collective generating of the latent magnetism of
the body, which can be effected by a number of processes.
The eye has been described by scientists as a small-sized
volcano ;
in most cases latent, quiet, sleeping in its embers, but
the centre of the most intensely heated zone, in all Nature,
ready to glow when aroused.
What is known as the Oriental Practice is not by any means a
new method. It has had uses in other departments, notably in
developing a wonderful memory, and in stimulating thought,
creating fertility of ideas, building inventive powers and
avoiding mental breakdown. None of these purposes will be
insisted upon in these lessons, although they will follow natur-
ally. The trouble with the minds of unsuccessful people is
that they are not alert in a way that wins results. Most of them
are sluggish except in pursuit of the needs of the Four Appetites
which generally rule mankind. This kind of mental alertness
results in placing them under the sway of craftier minds.
The field of human activities in other directions is almost
99
100 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
unlimited, and in them the powers of mental alertness and
keenness are absent.
This explains why most lives are failures.
In the Oriental Practice as it was employed in the Far East,
the results hardly warranted the time devoted to it had these
people had other lines of usefulness in the world. They were
not educated except in religious theories. They were not
engaged in anything really worth while in life. Of course this
gave them time for their practice ;
and led them into methods
of concentration that, if their claims were to be believed, gave
them knowledge of some of the mysteries of other powers of a
superhuman nature. If such claims were in fact true, there was
nothing gained by what they acquired.
We are in this world primarily to live the life that is thrust
upon us.
No normal human being is a hermit ; hence our duty lies far
and wide among mankind. The more people we meet the better
it is for us. Interests are interwoven everywhere. Duties
involve home and social relations, as well as business, pro-
fessional and productive activities ;
and the practice indulged
in by other people who are not so interbound in their duties,
does not help us except in the very limited use we make of it.
But any natural and highly beneficial practice that will
stimulate the brain into its best uses, and start a new line of
habits tending to establish great mental_keenness and alertness,
will at the same time develop collectively the latent power of
magnetism where now it is diffused in the body. Thus the
Oriental Practice, kept within such limits, serves a double
purpose :
1. It produces, so far as its influence reaches, what is called
the Magnetic Eye.
2. It creates collectively a fund of magnetism from the
diffused magnetism of the body.
Its direct result in accomplishing these two ends is found
in developing the habit as a natural gift of separating details
from masses, following the plan set forth in the two preceding
lessons ;
and based on the two following accepted facts :
1. Persons who do not possess as a natural gift the power of
separating details from masses are never mentally magnetic.
2. Persons who do possess this power as a habit, and thereby
ORIENTAL SECRETS 101
as a natural gift, are exceedingly magnetic mentally, and
become more so as they put this power into daily and practical
use in dealing with other persons.
The method now to be pursued is what is called cumulative.
A process is cumulative, at least in art and particularly in this
practice, that begins with the least unit, adds one at a time,
and so goes on, always beginning at one. No other plan succeeds
in this branch of the training. But few readers will understand
what is meant by always beginning with one, or the first unit,
or any one unit whether the same is the first or not.
Take a step to an open door leading to an adjoining room ;
give one quick glance at the contents of that room ;
then with-
draw. While out of the range of vision of those contents,
mention one article that is in the room. This is the first unit.
The same article may or may not be included in the next glance.
Go again to the door, look into the room, and withdraw,
mentioning two articles in the room. Repeat by taking a third
glance, which must be as quickly done as the eye can look.
Again repeat by taking a fourth glance, always going out of
sight of the room, and name aloud the four articles that are
seen in the fraction of a second. Try now to name five articles
that are seen at a fifth glance after retiring from the sight of the
contents. Then six, and so on until you are not able to add any
more.
What is meant by cumulative will now be explained.
After reaching your limit in the number of articles that can
be seen in a fraction of a second, rest for any length of time
that you may choose. Progress and development take place
during periods of rest, but following periods of activity of the
mind.
When you feel again an interest in resuming the practice,
start with one unit ;
not with the number following where you
left off. There are two kinds of mistakes that you can make at
this stage.
1. The first mistake is to try to see how many articles you
can take in at a glance, instead of beginning with one, and
adding one at each trial.
2. The second mistake is in not going back over the same
ground after taking a rest.
A room in an ordinary house would not contain enough
102 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
articles to reach a real test. The mind by the cumulative process
will soon be able to include from fifty to one hundred items in
less than one second of time. Women train themselves to see
in one very brief look everything that another woman has on
at Easter time, meaning everything that is visible. In the
present style of dress the number of articles is limited compared
with those of a generation ago. We once heard a woman
witness in court describe an occurrence in which a well-dressed
woman participated ;
and on being asked to tell what she saw,
enumerated twenty-five items worn by the other woman,
although she declared that she was passing at the time and
did not stop to see all that was happening. She first noted
what a well-dressed person of her sex was wearing, and then lost
interest in the other matters.
This method of seeing details in mass is of very limited
benefit unless it can be made to grow by the cumulative plan.
The Chinese employ the shop-window system, but do not
make it cumulative except in the early stages of the training.
The plan is to walk along the street past a shop window and to
note only one item at first. Then they walk past the window
again, and note two items. Then three ; four, etc., and by
actual test it was proved that the experimenter, in less than one
second of time, could see more than five hundred details and
could describe them accurately. Claims have been made that
one person reached more than five thousand items. We are
willing to stop at a much smaller number ; although what the
human brain can be traced to do is unbelievable until known.
The principle involved in the method is all that interests us.
It requires the growing use of the mind as the agent of
separating details in the human face, and of reading what is
behind those details in the mind ;
and for the purpose of highly
developing this power, the Oriental Practice is exceptionally
valuable.
As personal magnetism is power, first over self, then over
all human beings with whom you come in contact, it must
follow that the ability to know what is in the mind and purposes
of other persons is one of the most valuable and important
adjuncts to this power.
LESSON SEVENTEEN
GLANCE PRACTICE
UNIVERSITIES
HAVE RECENTLY been testing the
ability of their students in quick observation. Instead
of showing them in what way this acquisition might
be developed, they have merely taken them as they
found them, and sought to learn how much they had been
educated by Nature and past habits of association. It was our
good fortune to have -n^n^iri
studied in the office
of a most successful ^jlP^^^8j(^ lawyer, a man of
national reputation ;
^ //9ijj?^ \
an(^ we no^ce(i that
he was able to read
^^^^fw ' t^ie w^ole page of a
handwritten letter ** at a glance. He
also could read any letter which was upside down, and any
printed matter in the same way. Not wishing to intrude by
asking questions concerning his personal habits, we refrained
from enquiring in what manner he had attained this efficiency ;
but in later years he gave us the information when he knew we
were analysing the methods of successful men. He had trained
himself to do these things. They had not come to him naturally.
In the midst of a large practice he had found time for this train-
ing, and also to memorise many books of the Bible. His
memory was so remarkable that he could recall persons by
name and circumstances, whom he had met only once and then
as far back as twenty years.
The vast majority of people are contented with minds that
are developed only far enough to carry on the necessary
processes of living and of the chosen vocations of life. But
there are vast fields of new adventure.
All these mental acquisitions help each other.
As we have said, we are not teaching memory culture ; but
if any person desires to acquire a wonderful memory, the
104 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETSIM
Oriental Practice of the preceding lesson will accomplish this
and vastly more.
That practice dealt with the quick use of the eye in separating
details from a mass ; and especially in catching every shade of
meaning in the face of a person. The present lesson now deals
with the catching of a mass of ideas ;
but these ideas are really
the separate" words and thoughts that are expressed on paper.
Minds act in several grades of activity. The slow or dull brain
gets its ideas very feebly and as the result of effort or waiting.
Success is impossible in life under such conditions.
Another brain will grasp a meaning in less time, yet may be
very slow and dull. Still another works faster. As soon as we
reach the brain that takes in ideas and conditions rapidly,
we approach the magnetic power.
Speed may be cultivated, and dull minds converted into alert
ones. It is an admitted fact among psychologists and scientists
that all human beings, except those who are mentally dwarfed,
possess marvellous brain energies that remain more or
dormant through life. Many of these
"
mind forces
"
are
at work in individuals who advance rapidly in the world. The
right to accumulate independent wealth belongs to every
intelligent being ;
but that right is useless in the hands of a man
or woman who lacks
"
Brain Magnetism." Any form of wealth,
power, achievement open to you is of little use, if you lack the
magnetism to make it yield increased life values.
The test is how much progress a person can make in the
following exercises :
1. Take a large sheet of paper, say about 8| inches wide and
11 inches long. On this sheet print in letters about the size of
capitals used on typewriters, about fifteen lines, occupying the
whole page. These lines are separated so as not to crowd the
vision ;
and the words are in letters large enough to be seen
readily.
2. Lay this paper on a table, having the printed side facing
down. As you approach the table, take the paper in your hand
and turn it over, and then turn it back, leaving it there while
you sit down at another table and write down as many of the
words as you can recall, framing the sentences nearly like those
on the sheet that you glanced at as you turned it over. It is
best to have the lines that are placed on the paper put there
GLANCE PRACTICE 105
by some other person so that you may not know what they are.
After you have glanced at them during a brief second, and have
written down what you saw in that time, you should report to
your assistant what you have reproduced. Do so always in
writing. The first effort may not be fruitful, depending not
so much on the power of your mind as on your experience.
3. Repeat the test in the same manner, and make a separate
report in writing of what you have caught by a second glance.
This method is to be repeated as on the first occasion until
you are wearied. On some other day when you are not mentally
tired, repeat it. Do not try to do too much at one time. Keep
at it, however, until you can reproduce every idea that is con-
tained in the lines on the paper. That will finish the first stage.
4. After this, have a second piece of paper prepared like the
first but with different lines and ideas ;
and proceed until you
are able to secure at a glance, lasting not more than a second
of time, all that is on the paper. Keep a record of the number
^| efforts which have been required in each stage, and see if
fpi have made progress. Like the game of golf the less times
you are compelled to try to reach the end of the course, the
more progress you are making. Thus will end the second stage.
5. Now the lines instead of being far apart, making about
fifteen to a page, should be placed in the usual distance, making
thirty lines on a page. Still the capitals should be employed in
this third stage. You will have twice as many lines to see at a
glance, and twice as many ideas probably. This stage will take
more time and a number more efforts.
6. The fourth and last stage in straight reading at a glance
is to be made with thirty lines on a page, and capitals used only
when they are ordinarily employed. This means that you are
to face the usual kind of typewriting matter. By this time your
eyes should have a very keen power, and the lower-case letters
should be as easily read as capitals.
7. We come now to reverse reading. This is done by taking
a piece of paper of the size stated, and writing in fifteen lines
some new matter with which the experimenter is not familiar.
This exercise is not glance work, but must follow that. It should
not be tried until the four stages are mastered perfectly ;
for
progress will be very slow until then. In reverse reading, after
your assistant has placed the fifteen lines in capitals on the
106 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
paper, this is to be left upside down on the table, and turned
over when you are seated with the paper placed so that the
page itself is upside down. This means that the upper lines
are nearest to you but the lower lines are farthest from you,
which is the reverse of the usual position. You may take all
the time you need, and read aloud every word on the page.
This is the fifth stage of this lesson.
8. The next stage consists in placing thirty lines of new
matter in capitals on another sheet of paper, upside down as
before, and reading it from a reverse position. This is the sixth
stage.
9. The next step consists in placing thirty lines in the usual
letters including capitals and lower-case letters as in ordinary
text, and reading them from a reverse position. This is the
seventh stage.
10. Now, instead of using typewritten matter for the lines,
cut an advertisement from any newspaper and read it from
the reverse position. A very interesting way of doing this is to
have your assistant hold the advertisement in the usual way so
that he may read it in the proper position, while you are reading
it from a reverse position. We have known students to become
so adept in this manner of reading that they can repeat aloud
every word from a piece of newspaper as freely as if
holding it in the usual manner. We have also witnessed races
between two persons, each reading at a normal rate of speed,
one in the reverse way, and the other in the usual way. This
training proves in time to be of the utmost value and highest
usefulness.
11. The final stage makes use of handwritten letters, which
the expert will be able to read when in the hands of another
person who does not suspect that they could be read upside
down.
No business man, and especially no financier of large activities
nor a lawyer, would wish to make known the fact that they
can read letters and documents at a glance when held in the
hands of an opponent ;
but we have seen this done many
times ; yet if the fact were known these opponents would not
only be on guard, but would entertain unpleasant feelings
towards those who used such methods. Therefore we are not
teaching these things to enable a person to take advantage of
GLANCE PRACTICE 107
others, but to develop in the brain and eye the highest power
of magnetism, in order that the expert in these qualities may
read humanity as an open book rather than their private papers
and letters.
This is a direct source of power.
But sometimes injustice may be prevented by these very
methods of catching the ideas that are contained in a letter or
document. We were present in a trial where an unprincipled
witness held in his possession a paper that contained evidence
needed by the other side, but which was being concealed. By
chance this witness unfolded the paper and showed it to one of
his friends who happened to be in court. The lawyer who re-
presented the plaintiff was able to read any letter or document
at a glance ;
he saw this paper ; caught its contents ; put the
witness in the box, and demanded the reading of the paper.
By this means he won a just case, which otherwise he would
have lost. We have witnessed many other instances of the
usefulness of this accomplishment in securing justice for those
who might otherwise have been defenceless.
The eye-power stimulates and fires the brain.
Our main purpose, however, is to train the mind to become
keen and alert, and the eye to become powerfully magnetic.
When we can do these things by methods that bring other
benefits, we feel that the time has been well spent by any
student who persists in the practice.
Many enjoyable hours follow.
The benefits are self-evident. That they would be forth-
coming is also self-evident. Then another law comes into force
that will be fully explained in the next lesson that follows this.
It is the law that tells us that an excitant of the eye-power
brings to that organ in a collective form a great amount of the
diffused magnetism of the body. Here we have one of the most
effective methods of building personal magnetism as a natural
gift.
What we call exercises soon blend into habits, and from
habits come the same natural powers that attend the activities
of great men and women.
LESSON EIGHTEEN
THE VITAL EYE
WHEN
THE FOUR LESSONS that immediately
precede this one have been mastered, and not before,
the student must put into practice one of the simplest
things that could possibly be taught, yet that holds
in its little scope the greatest results in any line of training.
While it is a simple matter that we now present, it is not the
easiest thing to do.
-^SB^e^ No exercises are to be
employed; nothing ^^^^^J^^l|> but habits; and
these need nothing ^ -/jrf^ \
^ut attention i*1
order to be fixed and ^^4jBH? ) retained perman-
ently. Yet simple
^^ as it is, it affects
every year of life as long as the person remains on earth. It
also affects old age and its unnecessary decrepitude.
Two laws are at work in the face, as reflections of the trend of
the mind :
1 . When the face drifts into a concentric shape, lack of
personal magnetism is not only indicated, but is made so
apparent that any person, even a non-expert, may read the fact.
2. When the face drifts away from a concentric shape, the
presence of personal magnetism is not only indicated, but the
face gradually becomes interesting and attractive to all be-
holders.
We use the word "
drifts
"
to indicate the tendency of the
body to give way to the influence of habits that are both bad
and unpleasing. Left to itself it goes wrong at all times.
To use plain language, the face drifts into a concentric shape
when its muscles draw towards its centre, not only from the
sides, but also from the upper and lower parts. All concentric
tendencies of the face denote kinship with the lower forms of
creation ;
with the beast and the brute. The forehead seeks,
apparently, to come down as if to meet the chin ;
and the chin
108
THEVITALEYE 109
seems to rise to meet the forehead. But the most noticeable
drifting is that of the sides of the face towards the central line.
By this action one, two or three lines form just above the nose
between the eyebrows, and we say that the bro^ is knitted.
When the scalp moves forward towards the eyes, and the
eyebrows move upward towards the scalp, the result is a cor-
rugated forehead, in which several lines almost parallel appear.
These lines denote some form of weakness, either mental or
emotional. Worry gradually raises the eyebrows, and in
proportion as they rise the mental condition of worry increases.
People who go about constantly with raised brows carry
with them the sign of giving way to adverse control of some
kind, which is the opposite of magnetism. Likewise the lower-
ing of the scalp indicates some form of trouble.
This part of the face is strongest when the eyebrows are as
low as possible without the concentrating of the face between
them known as the knitted brows. The combination can be
cultivated by care. Often it is the result of weather exposure,
and of light shining in the face ;
and still more often of a
peevish and fretful disposition in which the face is screwed out
of shape to suit the character of the moods. These are
evidences of weakness.
The scalp has certain muscles by which it can be moved if
a person is able once to find them and to start them moving.
The temples also have muscles by which they can be moved.
These different muscles are constantly employed by persons
who knit the brows, and by others who wrinkle the forehead.
In both movements, the action is involuntary, but not naturally
so. It is made so thoughtlessly.
One of the stimulating exercises is that which knits the brows,
bringing them together at the top of the nose, and then unknits
them. If you can knit them, you can as readily unknit them.
The way of doing this is by the rebound of the muscle. Stand
or sit before a mirror for the practice. Knit the brows, and
watch them form the vertical lines above the nose ; but
instantly unknit them by reversing the direction of the temple
muscles. ^Everybody can do this at the first trial.
The next step is to extend the rebound at every effort. This
is done by knitting the brows ;
then unknit them in the
rebound, making the effort slightly more decisive on each reverse
no INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
action. Keep on doing this in one or more sessions daily until
you can unknit the muscles by a pulling action that stretches
the part of the face above the nose into a smoothness that
contains no evidence of the vertical lines. Of course this result
is not to be reached in a very short time. No matter if it takes
weeks or months to be accomplished, its value is so great that
it is worth all the time and effort devoted to it.
But very soon the phase called practice will have passed,
and the better phase known as habit will be entered upon.
As soon as you are able at will to unknit the brows until the
space between them above the nose is perfectly smooth, then
adopt this action as a habit following all through the waking
hours. Put it into action the first thing in the morning before
you rise from bed ; carry it as a companion all day long ;
and
when falling asleep at night, hold the temple muscles tightly
drawn away from the eyes. In this way the concentric tendency
is soon destroyed.
The vertical lines between the eyes above the nose may be
so deeply indented that they cannot be smoothed out. In this
case, massage must accompany the unknitting of the brows ;
as the temple muscles pull back from the eyes, rub a cold cream,
or better still some cocoa butter against the deep indentations,
pressing and rubbing by turns as if trying to iron them out.
This massage rubbing is best done in eight directions ; right, left,
up, down, up diagonally to the right, then to the left, down
diagonally to the right and finally to the left. We have seen
many cases of very deep indentations completely rubbed out,
and that part of the face become smooth and take on the
appearance of youth, as if many years had suddenly dropped
from the person. In one class, more than two hundred students
of more than middle age accomplished this result in a few
months ;
and several thousand in a single year did so without
one failure in their number.
But massage alone will not do the work. In the first place
it will not pull the temple muscles back to the positions of
youth. Then it will lack the essential benefits of stimulating
the eyes themselves.
The crow's-feet or thin lines at the corner of the eyes close
to the temples are also eliminated. Thus we get rid of three
sets of old-age wrinkles ;
the forehead lines, the knitted brows,
THE VITAL EYE ill
and the crow's-feet ; all of which accompany old age. Many
women make long and painstaking efforts to get rid of these
wrinkles by massage and by manipulation in the beauty
parlour ;
but they never succeed in removing the actual posi-
tions of the muscles that attend old age. The old-age positions
still remain, and all that massage accomplishes is to cover them
over, not eradicate them.
The habit that we teach is the actual condition of YOUTH.
We set the clock back twenty to forty years.
Massage is beneficial, but rarely necessary after the face has
once been smoothed out by controlling the muscles. Let us
see if we can make this clear. In youth the forehead muscles
are rarely ever concentric ;
if so, they are abnormal and unusual,
indicating a morbid mind or nervous system. In youth the
temple muscles are never concentric when conditions are
normal. In youth the side-muscles at the outer edge of each
eye do not close up, as they appear to do later in life.
It is an old law of human nature that conditions that are
natural in youth invite the mental and nervous conditions of
youth, if they can be resumed. As the normal positions of these
three sets of muscles are natural to youth, the reinstating of
them invites the mental and nervous conditions of youth.
Massage never does this. The plastering on of cream and the
creating of a coating of a temporary character on the cuticle
itself does not restore a single position of the facial muscles,
and does not invite any of the spirit of youth into the coun-
tenance. A pupil who has graduated from the beauty-parlour
treatment shows an unnatural face, because all the fine lines
and delicate lineaments have been obliterated.
There are still other reasons why the muscles must be made
to do their own work and to get the face back to the condition
of actual youth.
The most recent science tells us that the countless billions of
atoms of which the body is composed are charged, each and
every one of them, with inherent or native magnetism, the
presence of which is necessary to hold together their electrons,
and to maintain a sort of solar system in which a central orb
exerts an influence over its satellites, and the latter in turn by
the magnetism of a force akin to that known as centripetal,
keep their distance from the ruling orb. Also we are told that
112 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
each atom holds a mighty pent-up power that, if let loose,
would destroy matter vastly greater than its size. All these
engines of force and energy are coming into the body in countless
billions daily, serving their mission of making and maintaining
life, and passing out to join the great fund from which they
were drawn.
All this magnetism is known as diffused power.
It is scattered throughout the body.
This is recognized by all scientists as the basis of a higher use
than that which has yet been drawn from it. In order to under-
stand how this higher use may come about, let us review the
manner in which the vegetable cell that holds the germ of
intelligence is made by Nature to collect these scattered forms
of intelligence into a collective mass, which is called the brain,
and by which the animal is created from the plant.
In the same way the diffused or scattered presence of mag-
netism in the countless atoms of the body is drawn collectively
into ganglia, or nerve centres, and into the brain or greatest of
all nerveTcentres. When the process of collecting this magnetism
is carried forward to greater results, there is present in the
body a much more active fund of magnetism. When the
collective fund known as brain-power is united with the
increased fund of magnetism, the result is personal magnetism.
Any action that will excite the generation of magnetism will
increase the stored up fund of this power. Any faculty that is
favoured by an exciting cause in this line will be greatly
intensified. The human eye is located in the midst of vast funds
of magnetism, small as things are considered, but great when
related to the uses of the eye. The stimulating of the blood-flow
in the direction of the eye will bring countless billions of new
atoms to that organ, all of which will contribute their magnetism
to it, and so establish the magnetic power of the eye.
The furrowed brow is not attractive and is not necessary.
The knitted brow is not attractive and is not necessary.
LESSON NINETEEN
THE POWERFUL EYE
SINCE
IT IS ACKNOWLEDGED that the methods
of magnetic communication between human beings
are limited to the senses in open expression of influence,
and since the eye is the agent of the most generally used
sense next to that of the sound of the voice, we are giving
the most thorough instruction possible in the development of
the powers of this
-^a8^ organ. But, as has
been said in the ^gj^^^^^B^I preceding lesson,
every step in the ^ ^^?j^k \ trailing ^as brought
many other benefits ^il^^Hlr ) than those called
magnetic. The --^
present lesson will
be shown to be the most important example of this fact.
Except where disease or some form of poison has reached
the eyes and produced injury, the loss of perfect sight is always
traceable to a sameness of muscular use, or unvaried activity
of sight.
The routine use of any faculty puts it in a rut, and tends to
make it grow stale. The same uses day after day of the eye
bring about defective sight, and weaken its organic vigour.
Speaking in a general way, the eyeball is nearly round. It is
movable. There are muscles that enable it to move in many
directions ;
but they are not the same muscles in every action,
nor are the same muscles always employed in the same kind of
movement, if all their possible motions are used. Thus there
are muscles that enable the eyeball to be pulled to the right ;
others to be pulled to the left ;
others to be pulled upward ;
others to be pulled downward ;
and also in oblique and diagonal
directions. In a preceding lesson we referred to the meanings of
the positions of the eyelids as helps to a magnetic person in
reading the purposes and intentions of others, and getting close
to the contents of their minds.
8 113
114 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
In this lesson we seek to develop the studying power of the
observing eye, and to enable it to read the plans and purposes
of others with greater ease and effectiveness.
In order to do this we propose to draw more blood, more
nutrition, and more magnetic energy to the eye itself, by the
stimulating action of the muscles that we have described on
the preceding page. We start on the basic law that the same
kind of routine activity especially of the eyes, will cause them to
weaken, to lose their focus, and to flatten. When the eyeball
begins to flatten, then we need glasses. When the sight weakens
from the constant repetition of one kind of muscular action, the
sight grows dim. Here are two distinct results. Dimness of
vision is due to the weakness of the eye-power. Loss of focus
is due to flattening of the eyeball. The vision is getting worse
all the time, just as it would if you were to use glasses that were
fitted to your needs, and the lenses were to be changed for those
that were flat.
One kind of use of the muscles that move the eyeballs tends
to flatten them. This refers to movements of action. But one
kind of use of the eyes in reading, or in looking at objects,
weakens the eye-power. This fact has been verified in the past
five years, and even given prominent attention by specialists
of a high order of experimentation, with results that we are to
include herein as means not only to strengthen the eye but to
add to its magnetic quality for reading the meanings in the
faces and minds of other persons. Let us see what they are.
There are nine eye-directions, and these are brought about
by the varying action of the muscles. In these activities we
overcome the tendency of the eyes to flatten. In fact we have
in more than eleven thousand cases overcome flattened eyeballs
by these nine movements. We will repeat the causes of eye-
flattening again, in order to drive home the importance of this
part of the training :
The same routine use of the eyes, which we have called one
kind of use of the muscles that move them, leads to
flattening
and the loss of focus, necessitating glasses~o^luriSF""the
rotundity that flattening has destroyed. But if the nine
muscle-actions are employed either as exercises or as habits,
which latter method is feasible in daily life, the eyeballs will be
pulled out of their flattened condition ; for the pulling of the
THE POWERFUL EYE 115
muscles in one direction overcomes a part of the flattening, and
the pulling of opposite muscles will overcome another part, and
so on, making the circuit of movements. But if one direction
only is employed in this pulling, the eyeball will be given a bad
shape and thereby rendered weak.
Muscles that surround a flexible ball, if all are in turn pulling
on the ball, will give it the required or natural shape, exactly
the form that Nature intended for it, and gave it at birth. The
fact that it is flexible leads to its being flattened by one line
of activity in its muscles. It is the all-round activity, exerting
its power on every portion of the eyeball, that gives it the
natural shape it had during youth.
This part of the instruction has appeared in all the late
editions of this book ; and, as we have said, our records show
more than eleven thousand cases where flattened eyeballs have
had their rotundity restored by the use of the circuit movement
which we will present in this lesson. This relates solely to the
flattened condition and its^cure. / But the other phase of our
instruction, relating to one kind of use of the eyes in reading is
another thing, and the science and practice that will appear in
the next lesson are just being given attention in order to
avoid the unnecessary use of glasses.
We trust that you will keep this distinction in mind.
Then also remember that there is a difference between the
nine eye-movements, and the nine e^e-positions,
which we will
discuss later.
The nine eye-movements are employed to overcome the
flattened condition of the eyeballs, and to restore their natural
rotundity. These results take time, but are worth a thousand
times more than the cost of this entire study, even if there is no
intention of developing eye-magnetism by them.
While there may be many other finer directions of eye-
movements than the nine we now present, this number is
sufficient for the purpose for which they are prepared. We
will describe them as follows :
1. Look straight ahead, neither to the right or left, nor up
or down. This is the Number One position. You can stand or
sit ;
but it is better to be at one side of the room so that you
have the whole of the opposite wall facing you. In this case,
ascertain what part of that wall, or what object on it, exactly
Ii6 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
meets the direction of the eye when you are looking straight
ahead, and at something that is in a position level with the
height of your eye. We use the word eye as generative, meaning
gaze,
2. The second position is on a level with the first, but refers
to an object on your left as far toward the corner of the wall
as you can look without moving your head. If you move the
head at all, the eye loses a part of its range.
3. The third position is on a level with the first, but refers
to an object on your right as far toward the corner of the wall
as you can look without moving your head. Make the eyes do
thejwhole^work.
4. The fourth position is down to the floor directly in front
of you and is under the first position. Drop the gaze as low as
you can in a vertical direction without lowering the head.
5. The fifth position is down to the floor as far to the left as
you can move the gaze, and as low down at the same time.
6. The sixth position is down to the floor as far to the
right as you can move the gaze, and as low down at the same
time.
7. The seventh position is up to the ceiling directly in front
over the first position, as far upward as you can move the
gaze without moving thejiead.
8. The eighth position is up to the ceiling as far to the left as
you can move the gaze and keep the head still.
9. The ninth position is up to the ceiling as far to the right
as you can move the gaze and keep the head still.
CAUTION. The first time you try these movements do
them only once or twice. Every athlete knows that muscles
that have not been used, or if used that have not been given
certain kinds of action, will become sore from the strain, no
matter how slight it may be. This soreness will lead to a lame-
ness that will be painful. Remember that in the training
camps, the managers of athletes insist that they start slowly in
order to spare their muscles from pain. In the eye-movements
the first few trials should be very limited. After a while, as the
atcion is repeated, all danger of soreness will pass.
These are not eye-positions.
The latter will have their usefulness. But for the purposes of
this lesson, the muscles must be made to pull the eyeball in all
THE POWERFUL EYE II?
possible directions, in order to bring back its shape in the degree
of rotundity intended by Nature.
Movements should be made by opposites.
Thus, beginning at the first position, move to the second, then
to the first, then to the second, then to the first, &$& tflU
times.
Then move from the first to the third, then to the first, then to
the third, each ten times.
Next move from the second to the third, then from the third
to the second, each ten times. Ttese constitute the level
movements./
Begin now at the fourth gosition and move to the fifth, then
to the fourth, each ten times.
Then from the fourth to the sixth, and from the sixth to the
fourth, each ten times.
Then from the fifth to the sixth, and from the sixth to the
fifth, each ten times. These complete the lower movements./
Now move from thejeventh position to the eighth, and from
the eighth to the seventh, each ten times.
Next move from the seventh position to the ninth, and from
the ninth to the seventh, each ten times.
Now move from the eighth position to the ninth, and from
the ninth to the eighth, each ten times. These complete the
upper movements./
It will be noticed that all the foregoing movements are right
and left. There are nine others that are up and down as follows.
Begin at the first position, raise the eyes to the seventh, and
back to the first, each ten times.
Begin at the first position, move the gaze to the fourth
which is directly under it, and back to the first, each ten times.
Begin at the fourth position, raise the gaze to the seventh,
and back to the fourth, each ten times. These complete the
middle up and down movements.
Begin at the second position, raise the gaze to the eighth,
and back to the second, each ten times.
Begin at the second position, lower the gaze to the fifth, and
raise it to the second, each ten times.
Begin at the fifth position, raise the gaze to the eighth, lower
it to the fifth, each ten times. These complete the left up and
down movements.
Ii8 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Begin at the third position, raise the gaze to the ninth, and
go back to the third, each ten times.
Begin at the third position, drop the gaze to the sixth, back
to the third, and do each ten times.
Begin with the sixth position, raise the gaze to the ninth, go
back to the sixth, and do each ten times. These complete the
right up and down movements./
We now come to the diagonals, which are the most effective
in pulling the eyeball back into its normal rotundity.
Begin at the fifth position, raise the gaze up to the right to
the ninth position, then back to the fifth, and do each twenty
times ;
but do not start any of these until the preceding move-
ments have all been done a sufficient number of times to harden
the muscles.
Begin at the sixth position, raise the gaze up to the left to
the eighth position, then back to the sixth, and repeat each
twenty times, observing the caution just given.
Make your own chart of positions by numbers, which is very
easy to do, and place it in front of you for reference. If you
do not care to make the chart, then write the following numbers
each about two inches apart on a piece of paper :
On the upper row 879
On the middle row 213
On the lower row 546
These numbers placed before the eye will serve in the place
of a chart.
After you once learn these movements they can be made at
any time and almost anywhere, in the dark as well as in the
light. The whole idea is to stretch the eye-muscles, meaning
those that control the pulling about of the eyeball, in a series
of opposite directions. It may require some time to overcome
the flattened condition of the eyeballs, but persistent practice
will bring surprising changes and restore the natural shape.
If the necessity for wearing glasses is due, as is commonly
the case, to the loss of shape in the eyes, these movements wiU
in time enable the person so afflicted to lay aside the glasses
permanently. To encourage our students to engage in this
practice, we include in this lesson some statements taken from
THEKEENEYE 123
of magnetic units, all of which bring to the eye a very great
increase of power.
This result is quickly observed.
In this lesson we deal with the eyeball itself as an organ
equipped with constructive muscles that are endowed with the
ability to change the focus by changing the shape of the ball
within itself, as distinguished from the action of the outer
muscles that pull it in all directions in order to restore its lost
form.
Thus we have three groups of influences working to make the
eye a much greater organ in every way.
The present lesson may be omitted if it is too uninteresting,
for the development of magnetism does not depend on this
practice. It merely is one of the causes that help materially.
It does a very useful work in restoring the eye-power of youth
and thereby enabling one to dispense with the wearing of
glasses.
It also brings a new fire and brilliancy into the eyes, which
quickly attracts attention from other persons.
A partial use of this practice, while not doing away with
the wearing of glasses, will assuredly save a person from
continually increasing the magnifying power of lenses as age
comes on. In fact it will avert any further ageing of the vision ;
and by partial practice alone.
A successful eye-specialist recommends the practice daily of
reading coarse type, and instantly changing to fine type, then
back to coarse, and so alternate many times at each session of
exercising the eyes. While no results may be noticed for some
days or even for a few weeks, in time the eye will become much
stronger, and its power and keenness will have increased many-
fold.
A climacteric step may be taken now by adopting the tense
action of the eye in conjunction with the tense use of the voice.
At just this stage will the eye become fired with great fervour,
keenness and magnetic life.
Your friends will notice a remarkable change in you.
LESSON TWENTY-ONE
THE FIRE OF THE EYE
A!
A FITTING CLIMAX to this interesting and valuable
series of lessons on the power of the eye as an agent
of magnetism, we come to the union of the voice
with the action of the organ of vision. In other words,
the two may at times work together in the uses of the
newly acquired power. What is meant by intensity or fire of
any part of the body ~^^^^K^ *s ^at ^^ere *s sum~
moned by the act of
jjP^^^^^I* the will the accum-
ulated fund of mag- pr* jfj^T^^ \ netism, and by some
method of use it is
'**$&^3Sjr
'
given outward mani-
festation. Thus the ~~^
eye itself may be
fixed upon a person while the whole body is fired with intense
feeling which may be assumed at will, and the eye will
glow by reason of it. Some persons call this glow a phosphor-
escence of the nervous system ;
others believe it to be electricity.
It is neither. It is magnetism, which is not electricity nor
phosphorus. We shall prove later that it is pure magnetism.
The facts that are presented in this lesson have been accumu-
lating through many years, although based on experiments
made nearly half a century ago and put to the test in many
ways since, and thus amply proved.
The results have been pleasing and convincing, while highly
beneficial to all concerned.
This glow that flows from the eyes may be increased at will
to almost any condition, after a little practice ; provided all
the foregoing exercises in this section of the book have been
given due attention. It is not possible to jump forward in any
progressive course, and attain results. Each lesson paves the
way for its successor.
In experimenting in a darkened room with this glow of the
124
THEFIREOFTHEEYE 125
eye, we have witnessed lines of fire proceeding far into the
room when the eye has been made tense by the will-power.
This glow is never seen in a lighted place for the reason that
it is not bright enough ;
hence we do not regard it as electric.
But the eye itself may be made not only bright, but actually
brilliant if the use of it is accompanied by some words that
have meaning akin to the position taken by the eye. Most
persons who. are magnetic show nothing of the kind when they
are in a state of normal mental action ;
but let them become
interested in the achievement of some purpose, and the whole
eye-formation changes ;
the upper face is different ;
and power
stands expressed in every lineament.
We therefore refer to the magnetic eye as that organ in a
state of action or seeking some purpose. In repose we do not
call it the magnetic eye. But these are mere terms that have no
real bearing on the power itself.
Any faculty may be made tense by concentrating on it the
energy of the mind. Thoughts themselves become fire at times.
Feelings are aflame either by design or under great stress.
Control them, harness them, drive them, guide them and compel
them to do your bidding.
The magnetic eye is always tense.
There is here opportunity for a volume on a single subject.
The eye sees and is seen. The sense it embodies is the most
important of all. A deaf person can compel the eye to perform
some of the functions of hearing, just as a blind person uses the
sense of touch with greater delicacy and power. When a person
speaks to another the latter gets some of the meaning from the
eye. It is not only natural but common to look into the eye to
see the individual. All persons in an audience look at the
speaker's eye whenever he interests them ;
in dull moments only
they are attracted to some other part of the body, some
peculiarity, or some matter that distracts attention.
The magnetic person generally holds attention by the power
of the eye when there is a direct effort made towards one or
more others ;
but the latter will have no consciousness of such
influence. The tensing of the eye comes out of the same power
as the touch or voice when either is magnetic. All energy is
vibrant. The muscles are controlled by waves of force ;
sound
is likewise propelled ;
so is light ;
so is thought ; and magnetism
126 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
moves by a similar law. Each has its origin, its source of
supply, and its method of transfer ; and, above all, each has its
kind of pulsation. We never mistake light for sound. When
science shall have laid bare the secrets of life it will be known
what the difference is between alf these energies.
The use of the tense eye changes every part of the face by
some strange law of our natures. It also invites a glow into the
eye itself that even the photograph will record. This special
brightness is due to the electrical energy which is aroused by
the tensed condition. This does not arise in the eyeball, but
has its origin in the brain, which is the most powerful electric
battery of its size in existence ;
so that the tensing of the latter
organ is the real cause of it. We have for years used a plan of
shifting locations which we find to be the best method of tensing
the brain and eye. We present this arrangement here in a
different light from any elsewhere given. We take the nine
locations of the eyes from a former plan, as follows :
879
up left. up front. up right.
213
level left. straight ahead. level right.
546
down left. down front. down right.
The first practice is to look (1) at some imaginary person
whose eyes are directly in front of you and on a level with your
eyes, adopting a dead-still body all through, but holding the
eyes two seconds only in fixed gaze.
*
From one (1) change to two
r
(2), which means to move the
gaze to the left lateral, but do, not wink or move a muscle of the
face. Hold the gaze at two (2) for the same space of time, two
seconds.
Then come back to one (1) and hold the gaze for two seconds.
From one (1) change to three (3), and hold the gaze dead-
still for two seconds. So continue through all positions.
While holding the eyes in the positions indicated by the
numbers, repeat the following remarks with their full meaning
stamped in your tones :
When the eyes are at one (1) repeat :
"
/ am talking to you
THEFIREOFTHEEYE 127
and you must hear me." Let the voice be low clear and firm,
even severe.
When the eyes are at two (2) repeat :
"
You cannot escape
me." The words should be spoken in deep tones as though some
person were planning to get beyond your influence. Remember
that the face is to remain to the front and no part must move
except the eyes themselves.
When the eyes are at three (3) repeat :
"
Beware ! Do not
make me angry
"
When the eyes* are at four (4) repeat :
"
I will not do wrong"
When the eyes are at five (5) repeat :
"
Get thee behind me,
Satan"
When the eyes are at six (6) repeat :
"
I am stronger than my
enemies"
When the eyes are at seven (7) repeat :
"
Thou God seest me"
When the eyes are at eight (8) repeat :
"
Right is mighty and
will prevail
"
When the eyes are at nine (9) repeat :
"
Angels hold watch
and ward over my life"
The first few repetitions may be mental, continuing them until
the spirit of the sentiment in connection with the positions shall
be absorbed, after which it is better to use the voice aloud.
Get familiar with the locations as belonging to the sentiments
uttered.
In repeating them aloud, speak the sentiment once ;
then
come back to the central position one (1).
After five days' practice in the above lines, repeat each
sentiment five times aloud while holding the eyes fixed in
whatever position they take, and go through them all.
After five more days in the last-named practice, repeat each
sentiment ten times in the position to which it belongs.
The success in tensing the eyes will depend upon the tone-
colour in your voice. An actor could easily accomplish this
end at once. You may have to keep at it for weeks, but the
power will come sooner or later, and, once come, it always
remains.
LESSON TWENTY-TWO
MAGNETIC EYE OF YOUTH
MORE
MAGNETISM is constantly being generated in
a young person than in one who is mature or aged ;
but vastly more is being lost by excessive waste.
For the latter reason we do not think of youth as
magnetic. If, however, we can retain the power that the young
person develops daily, and turn it to use, we can quickly make
ourselves felt in
-*^^Mi^^~~ human affairs. But
as youth is not able >gl^ ^^5*fik to hold its magnet-
ism, all that we can ? Jj^^^ \ learn of its abundant
fund of vital energy '**S&&^Jjj& ) is howit comes about
and how to conserve ^^ it. On this theory
we will take youth as an age and condition of excessive
energy, and omit its excessive waste, as applied to the con-
ditions of those who have reached more mature years.
The vitality of youth has often been mistaken for magnetism,
but health, vigour and physical power seem to intrude them-
selves in the place of magnetism and to hold it in check. These
qualities are never magnetic.
In a preceding lesson in this Department we have discussed
the action of smoothing the forehead, and the sides of the eyes
and face, and making this condition a permanent habit. There
is a law that is old and yet new. It says :
"
Restoring a youth
condition will restore the condition of youth"
It does not seem to mean much as it is worded. But the term
condition has two significations. The first is the physical change
that is wrought in the body, as where the facial^muscles are made
to assume the same smoothness as is present in a young person.
This is the restoring of the physical condition that was evident
in former years in the face. The return of such shape as
prevailed at an earlier stage in life, acts upon the mental and
psychological nature of the person in such a way as to stimulate
MAGNETIC EYE OF YOUTH 129
the feeling and characteristics of youth. The law is an old
one, and has been proved in a number of ways.
If we can bring back the vitality of youth we can bring back
the excessive abundance of magnetism that attends youth.
Then, instead of allowing it to run to waste, we need only
conserve it in order to make it useful.
This facial change has been so thoroughly taught in the
lessons of this Department of the Magnetic Eye that we shall
not deal further with it.
There are several other influences or conditions that belong to
youth that may be restored by very little attention, if only they
are known. The next most important is the exciting cause of
vigorous blood circulation that exists in the medulla oblongata.
As words of this character are not readily understood by the
average reader, we will call this little master of life by the name
of the Third Brain. It is the upper part of the spinal column.
The first TbraSTSoes much of the voluntary thinking ;
the second
brain attends to the involuntary life of the body and the
muscular system, sometimes obeying the mandates of the
first brain.
But life must go on when there is no thinking and no muscular
activity ;
for the human body must breathe, must carry on
the circulation of the blood, and must proceed with digestion,
whether of the contents of the stomach or of the intestines.
Breathing is always taking place. The blood is always circu-
lating. Digestion never ceases unless the entire alimentary
canal is empty, which is very rare. More than half the nutrition
that comes from food is derived from the process of intestinal
digestion. Patients are often fed by injections at the colon.
This Third Brain attends to all these functions :
Digestion.
Circulation.
Respiration.
We are not intending to teach increased breathing. That is
taught in many forms and for many health purposes ;
and our
students should by this time have established a greater range of
respiration. But we are going to show that the influence of the
Third Brain, which alone maintains natural respiration, can be
employed to vitalize all breathing which mere practice in the
130 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
exercises will never do. It is not more air that the lungs need,
if they are receiving a full supply ;
it is vital air that brings new
life and with it the magnetism that the body requires.
By reaching this Third Brain with any instrument that
interferes with its work as controller of respiration, digestion and
circulation, it is possible to immediately stop the heart from
beating ;
or to stop all digestion ;
or to paralyse the lung-action.
This has been done, and can be done as often as the Third Brain
is interfered with.Jf
In the thinking brain, the pressure on a
certain part of the skull, forcing it into the convolutions of that
organ, may deprive the person of the power of memory ; or
may cause loss of speech ;
or do other injury, depending on what
part of the brain the injury falls./ So injury or shock of a severe
kind that reaches the Second Brain may paralyse the arm, or the
leg, or side. Sometimes temporary paralysis is due to a pressure
that, if relieved, will cause the return of the normal condition.
Not only does the Third Brain absolutely and completely
control respiration, but it controls also circulation and digestion.
As we have stated, digestion occurs not only in the stomach,
but in the entire canal, including its adjacent parts, and the
intricate arrangement of aids that are found near to the stomach
itself. Diabetes is caused by interference of a chronic kind with
this out-of-the-stomach digestion ;
whether by the extreme irri-
tation of too much sugar, starch or other carbon form of food,
or by a blow on the back^of thejaeck which has permanently
injured the Third Brain which is located there. In fact there
are thousands of cases of diabetes arising every decade from
blows on the neck, which are cured only by curing the injury
at the Third Brain. Worry, which is a mental trouble that
depresses all three brains, has caused many cases of diabetes.
Injury to this small Third Brain arising from accident will
interfere with one of the three functions. If respiration suffers,
then quick tuberculosis takes the victim away. If circulation
suffers, then anaemia follows. If digestion suffers, it is generally
in the intestinal canal as stated.
We have gone thoroughly into the study of the functions
depending on this Third Brain in order to impress on the student
its importance in the plan of life. We shall now apply it to
the development of magnetism. It does not require an astute
mind to see that the involuntary functions of digestion,
MAGNETIC EYE OF YOUTH 131
respiration and circulation are in reality the WHOLE LIFE of
the human body ; and that this very small section at the back
of the neck that ends that part of the spinal column, plays the
greatest part in not only sustaining life
but^in ^generating its
vital powers, and especially in bringing into activity as well as
existence all its magnetism.
But what is to be done about it ?
It is there well encased in bone, and may not be reached
except by some fine pointed instrument, or by a blow, or by a
strain ; rarely by a fracture, in which case the chances of
survival are too small to be considered.
But the entire spinal column, endowed as it is with the
controlling power over various parts of the body, which acts as
aids to the Third Brain, is composed of small sections, making an
electric pile from the base of the torso to the head, charged and
supercharged with constantly forming magnetism, and these
small sections of bone are tied together with nerves and muscles,
and between them are small pads of flexible material ; the whole
structure being capable of being bent to the right, to the left, to
the back, to the front, and in a vertical direction.
When we bend the body to the righ, this column is flexible
enough to shape itself into a curve ;
and when we bend to the
left, the curve is changed to the opposite direction. When we
bend back there is a new curve ;
and when we bend forward
this is reversed.
The boy or girl who is normal is as straight as it is possible to
be ;
but with reading and leaning over a book or paper, the
forward curve begins to show, and the body seems to be bent
at the shoulders, until later in life this stooping and the craning
of the neck tell the story of advancing age. Yet all persons in
the fifties, with few exceptions, are bent at the upper back ;
some are bent when much younger ;
but no person who is above
the age of thirty is free from some shrinking of the spinal column.
The small bones that form the spinal column are cushioned,
and so separated from each other. This cushioning and the
complex interweaving of nerves and muscles are much more
marked at the Third Brain, and the flexibility much more
pronounced.
If you will make a mental picture of your torso, which is the
part of the body between the neck and the legs, and if you will
132 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
find mentally the average central line of the torso, you will
soon understand what is to follow. Imagine that there is a
centre to the neck at its base or where it joins the trunk or torso.
Imagine that there is another centre at the lower part of the
torso, which centre would be in the middle position between
the right and left hips and the front and back. Now imagine
that a vertical line runs from one centre to the other ;
that it is
not only perfectly straight but that it is plumb, or at right-
angles with the floor, or parallel with the side wall of the room.
This is the carriage of the torso at all times, if you wish the
vitality of youth.
Now we must find two more centres. One is the same as our
first, which was at the base of the neck, bringing it in the
throat back of the larynx or Adam's apple. The other centre is
at the top of the head midway between the front and back and
between the two sides. These centres must unite so that a line
running between them would be vertical.
Now unite the two vertical lines.
This will make the imaginary line that runs from the centre
of the lower part of the torso extend to the centre of the top of
the head.
Every curve in the spine, shoulders or neck interferes with
the flow of blood and the flow of the nerve vitality or magnetism,
through those important controlling agencies of life. You may
press against your arm and stop the flow of blood. But you
may also press against a nerve in the arm, and put the lower
part to sleep. By sitting in a certain position in a chair, as
where the front edge of the chair presses against the nerves in
the leg, you may put your foot to sleep, and may invite cramp
in the legs.
All curves more or less cause similar dangers.
The flow of blood carries new magnetism-forming cells.
The flow of the nerve currents carries the actual life of the
body which includes all its magnetism.
Any curvature of any part of the body that interferes with
these flows lessens the energy and vitality of the currents so
impeded ;
as a curvature is more or less a shutting off of the
avenues of travel. But the settling down of the bones that form
the structure of the spine, and especially of the section known
as the Third Brain, will likewise check the flow of magnetic
MAGNETIC EYE OF YOUTH 133
vitality to the functional centres of the body ; such as those of
respiration, digestion and circulation.
We have seen several pernicious cases of constipation
immediately cured by skilful manipulation of the tog section
of the spine or Third Brain. There are two great curative
professions that employ such methods.
We have seen severe cases of stomach indigestion cured by
skilful manipulation of the same top section of the spine.
But some few years ago a very widely known specialist in
blood circulation and heart maladies made the assertion that
the circulation of the blood was controlled by this top section
of the spine to the extent that when sluggish circulation
resulted in cold extremities, as of the feet and hands, he could
overcome this trouble by stretching the muscles of the neck in
such a way as to pull upon the Medulla or Third Brain ; explain-
ing the process by saying : "It requires but slight adjustment
of the upper spine to send a very powerful influence to the heart,
thereby vitalizing its action and propelling a much more
vigorous flow of blood to the feet and hands. This adjustment
is made not by another person but by the manner in which the
head is lifted. A distance so slight as to be almost unmeasurable
will effect such results as we have witnessed/'
The manner in which the head is lifted is the key to this
process.
Old age brings all kinds of curves to the spine, neck and
shoulders. Youth is straight. Age is bent. Some people curve
their backs so much when they get old that they must support
themselves with canes when they walk, to prevent falling over.
But standing straight is not enough.
The centres that we have described must be kept in mind,
and the vertical line must be kept perfectly plumb from the
centre of the top of the headjto theJ^entre^
between^the^hips.
This is the preparation only. But let it be made into a habit,
so that whether you are sitting or standing, the centres are
maintained in a perfectly plumb line. It is a good habit. Mag-
netism students, whether they are twenty or a hundred years
old, will never forget this vertical line. They will never grow
old to the beholder ;
nor in their own feelings.
Having learned to acquire the vertical line position, keeping
the centre of the head always over the centre of the chest, and
134 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
never craning the neck, the next thing is the important one ;
that of pulling the top section of the spine, the Third Brain, into
a stretched position. The manner in which this was done, as
explained by the doctor, was to imagine that you could bring
the top of the head slightly nearer the ceiling above by raising
the head so as to stretch the neck. The new habit then is to
keep the centres vertical and to carry the head so that its top
seems to be trying to get nearer to the ceiling, thereby stretching
the neck muscles, the nerves, and the medulla that controls
circulation, as well as other functions.
If you were to be told that stretching the upper spine would
stimulate the heart, vitalize its action, and send warming blood
to the hands and feet, thereby overcoming their cold feeling,
you would not see in what way this action would bring so
decided a result. For this reason we have explained it in
detail.
But the fact that concerns us is that it is done, and has been
done to our knowledge hundreds of times. All that is necessary
is to make the neck respond to the effort at stretching.
We are not teaching any exercises in this lesson.
The things we are setting forth are intended as habits.
An exercise takes time.
A habit takes no time at all. You can do things right just
as quickly as do them wrong.
If the Third Brain controls the circulation of the blood and
gives to its flow a new vitality both of magnetism and of
material that bears magnetism in its course, it must follow that
it will, in thus restoring the conditions of youth, bring back the
excessive power of youthful magnetism.
Like all habits that are taught in this lesson, it is a good one
in its influence on the individual in every department of life.
Another habit that belongs to youth and that is lost about the
time the man or woman is old enough to vote, is that of avoiding
the exhaustion that comes from straining the spinal column, or
irritating it. This habit is inborn, but quickly loses itself in the
mass of bad methods that attach themselves to the coming
adult age. It is that of keeping the strain away from the spine
by not using the heels for receiving the weight of the body in
walking. No one thinks of doing so when running.
When the act of taking a step is performed by bringing the
MAGNETIC EYE OF YOUTH 135
weight down on the heel, a blow is struck to the spine that irri-
tates it, and tends to exhaust its magnetism and the vitality of
the general body. But it is not only this blow that is harmful ;
there is a decided strain put upon the spine that is also irritating
and exhausting ;
both of which influences quickly sap the
system of its stored up magnetism.
In taking a step, keep the centre of gravity of the torso well
forward without bending and without losing the vertical line
that we have just taught. This will put the weight of the whole
body on the ball of the foot, even if the heel touches the floor
first in taking such a step. When walking in bare feet, the ball,
of each foot should touch the ground first, but in wearing shoes I
with heels, the heel may touch first without any weight going
;
on it, or not more weight than enough to merely support it.
Wearing heels that are more than an inch thick, or high, to
use a misnomer, detracts from the power of generating mag-
netism in walking.
This is not an exercise ;
it is a habit. It may not be easily
adopted at first, but soon you will enjoy it, for it not only does
away with the irritation and exhaustion of heel-walking, but on
the other hand it stores up considerable magnetism. We know
of many cases where men and women could not walk half a
mile without becoming tired, who now can walk six miles and
feel refreshed in so doing.
Thus far we have found three new habits that, while they
generate magnetism, also bring new conditions to the body and
improve it vastly.
Another habit that has been much written about must be
considered in this training. It is the collapse of the neck and of
the vital muscles. When the neck muscles weaken, the head is
carried forward. This is a position of age, of feebleness of mind
and body, and of exhaustion of magnetism. When the vital
muscles weaken, the chest falls in, the heart sags, the stomach
drops, and the intestines are lowered.
In women this collapse of the vital muscles brings on pro-
lapsus, which is a never-ceasing enemy of magnetism. It can,
however, be cured by vitalizing the vital muscles. This is done
not by exercises, but by habits. We have promised not to give
any exercises in this lesson, and we are keeping our word.
Exercises take time. Habits require no time at all ;
for they are
136 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
merely ways of living. The process by which the collapse of the
vital muscles is cured by new habits is as follows :
First, ascertain if your chest falls down when you are sitting.
If it does, raise it as high as you can without raising the
shoulders, for they must never rise, never be thrown back,
never come forward. Keep them in a central position, force
them down and raise the chest as high as you can. Then hold it
there. Hold it there when you are eating, when you are reading,
when you are writing, when you are walking, when you are in
train or car, and always everywhere.
In the above manner you can overcome the first collapse of
your vital muscles.
Next, ascertain if your abdomen projects forward. If it does,
pull it in. Not with your hands, but by its own muscles. If
they will not do this, then help them with your hands for a
while ;
but soon they will be strong enough to do the pulling
themselves. Then make them do it. In a very short time, they
will attend to this matter as a habit, and that is what you
want.
All athletes, all normal young persons, all strong and vital
men and women overcome the collapse of these vital muscles.
That condition causes old age and leads rapidly to decrepitude
besides resulting in badly misshapen bodies and gross appear-
ances, all repugnant to the eye and not creditable to the person
so afflicted. We are sorry to say that more than ninety per cent
of all persons above twenty-five years of age are victims of
collapsed vital muscles.
Thus the good work goes on. These new habits increase
the natural flow of magnetism, send much new and vigorous
nerve-power to the eye, and so fire it with YOUTH. One of
the first results in a better heart-action, and of decreasing
irritation to the nervous system, is the brighter and more youth-
ful glow of the eye. As new life comes to the brain and all the
faculties, the eye is the first to respond.
By the term, The Magnetic Eye of Youth, we teach that the
vital habits of youth if restored and conserved against waste
living will give unusual health, vigour, brightness and brilliance
to the eyes, which are the gauge that indicates perfectly how
much magnetism has been developed in the body.
LESSON TWENTY-THREE
THE TENSE EYE
OUR
FINAL LESSON in this Department of the
Magnetic Eye will deal with: the organ when under the
full sway of great jegling^
as distinguished from the
sway of the mind. Thoughts move people in one of two
ways ; either by the ideas they convey ;
or by the feelings
they arouse. While the most useful of all displays of personal
magnetism come in
-^^i^^ ^e convincing force
of ideas, the most ^^^"^j5?P^ interesting exhibi-
tions are found in the ? j^Sfc^ \ outpouring f feeling
when accompanied ^^^^^f^^ I
by magnetism. We
have never yet seen ^^ an audience that did
not enjoy to the utmost those tense moments when the power
of some speaker was brought home to them in currents of
magnetism ;
not in shouting, or declamation, or physical
energy. Some of the greatest victories have been won in quiet
tones of the voice ;
but not in lifeless ones.
Noise is a physical product, and for that reason is never
magnetic. A din, or racket, if prolonged, tends to induce sleep,
in the person hearing it. Loud speech must be avoided at all
times.
A shouting preacher or declamatory orator may put an
audience to sleep if he keeps at it long enough. A quiet voice that
has no magnetism may empty a church or hall. It all depends
on the presence of magnetism.
What is true in public displays is even more true in the
various avenues of life, in business, or home, or professional
affairs, as well as in social meetings. The tense voice is far more
influential than the loud one.
Before the tense voice can be aroused and used with effect,
the tense eye must be developed ;
and it is the purpose of this
lesson to teach the habit that brings this about. But even such
137
138 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
a result cannot be obtained until the conditions of youth that are
taught in the preceding lesson are acquired by the formation of
the habits there described.
The tense eye comes about from the habit of charging the
system with magnetic interest in which both mind and feelings
participate. It means that the mind is wide awake, and that the
emotional nature is likewise aroused, both uniting to find
expression through the eye even if no other faculty than sight
participates. By emotion is not necessarily intended the control
of the feelings over the mind ;
for that is weakness, and
indicates that the judgment is being warped by some influence
that is driving it from its moorings. Thus the imaginations
that bring a mob into existence and dethrone their reason are
illustrations of the control of the emotions over the mind.
Just as the human system is a nice balance of acid and
alkaline conditions, so the magnetic system of intensity should
be a nice balance of feeling and thought. In the absence of
feeling, thought becomes magnetic only under the influence of
an idea that possesses moving power ; by which is meant the
power to win. In other words it is a winning idea. Great
men and women rise to this estate who are never emotional,
yet are magnetic ;
but it requires the element of true greatness
to do so. Yet a mind that has once been aroused in these
powers quickly forms the habit of creating winning ideas. It
then is only a question of acquired habit.
We have met many persons who are overcharged for a time
with nothing but feeling. Some lawyers will begin an address
to the jury with this overflow of emotion ;
but with no winning
idea back of it the effort soon falls flat, and the affair becomes
ridiculous. But when mind and feeling are both magnetic,
that is, when the thoughts are worth while and they are
propelled by emotion, the combination is irresistible. The best
indication of this nice balance is found in the tense eye ;
for it
is lighted with the fire of the thought and the fire of the nerves.
In order then to cultivate this brilliant and glowing eye, for
it is unusually attractive, the thought itself must be powerful,
and the feeling must propel it. One of the best illustrations of
this combination to be found in history undoubtedly was the
fiery and piercing eye of Patrick Henry, of whose appearance
during the heat of eloquence many accounts have been handed
THETENSEEYE 139
down from persons who were present and who faced him as he
spoke. Take for instance his defiance of British rule and
repudiation of loyalty to the Mother Country when he said :
"
Csesar had his Brutus, Charles the First his Cromwell, and
George the Third/' at which time he was interrupted by cries of
"
Treason."
"
And George the Third may profit by their
example. If this be treason make the most of it." As short-
hand was not in use at the time, his exact words may not be
known ;
but ideas are more vital than words, and these were the
ideas that he expressed. It is said that his face, which ordinarily
was not usually attractive, was lighted up by a fire that shone
from his eyes and gave him a godlike appearance.
The student of these lessons has witnessed similar scenes
probably many times ;
but we quote the foregoing in order to
bring home a stirring example of the combination of the most
intense thought coupled with the most intense feeling. Yet
Patrick Henry did not break down. Had his feelings not been
harnessed to his thoughts and made a well-balanced team, he
might have broken down, as so many persons do when they give
way to their feelings. The evidence of great magnetic power is
found in the ability to feel to excess and to hold this pent-up
dynamite of force in perfect control. It becomes a beautiful
exhibition of human ascendency over the masses.
The quotation we have given above is also intended for use
in practice, for the reason that it holds in its few words the most
intense thoughts. Try repeating the words a few times, and
note the result in your own force of expression. Do not use
force of voice ;
avoid mere noise. A magnetic thought must
live in the mind ;
it must make the scenes behind it live again ;
it must see with mental vision what it refers to as it is uttered.
All the preceding lessons in this Department of the Magnetic
Eye may be given attention at once, or in their order in the
book ;
but this final lesson should wait on others that follow,.
As it belongs where it is, we prefer not to move it ahead ; but
we advise that it be omitted for a while.
The progress of this study is so interwoven with Departments
that claim attention, apparently all at once, that it is difficult
to arrange an order of sequence in adopting them. The best
plan is to do nothing but read them and think about them, even
if this method is never aided by exercises ;
for the reading of
140 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
a thought will often change a whole life. This is merely a
suggestion.
In this lesson as in many others we must borrow from lessons
that are ahead, and from some that have been given. Thus in
order to acquire the tense eye, the youth habits of the lesson
just before this will do more than any other influence. Then
looking ahead to the Department of Tense Exercises, we find
help that is very effective. Also there are lessons in the
magnetic voice that possess unusual value. A reading of them
will show what is meant.
With these helps, and with a thought that is on fire like
the extract from the speech of Patrick Henry, it is a very rapid
and easy process to develop the tense eye. The value of this
acquisition is that it beautifies the face, gives it an unwonted
attractiveness, and makes the eyes brilliant and capable of
holding any attention even under the most discouraging
circumstances. So important is it that every man and woman
should acquire it even if not another thing is learned in this
study.
We have seen so many thousands of instances of the use of the
tense eye in controlling others that a volume larger than an
unabridged dictionary would not hold the histories of them
with the circumstances leading up to such use, and the advan-
tages that followed. Later on we will show what can be
accomplished in this line of influence. In this lesson it is our
purpose to establish the acquisition as a permanent habit. It
is one of those things that can never be lost after it has once been
firmly engrafted on the nervous system. When you have
attained it and have learned to use it, it will always respond to
the merest act of the will.
Making use of the helps that are borrowed, as stated, from
other lessons and from the careful reading of this whole work,
we sum up the lesson by repeating the formula which is as
follows :
1. There must be an aroused emotional feeling.
2. There must be a mental control of that emotion.
3. There must be present a great thought driving the emotion
as the power in an engine drives the wheels of motion.
The great thought that we have quoted is one of the most
vital of all ideas, as it contains a summing up of history in
THETENSEEYE 141
a very few words. When words are barren of ideas they are
weak and wearying. When ideas are barren of words they are
like jewels in frail settings. The man of few words, if what he
says is important, holds more influence over his fellows than the
man of many words that clothe the same thought ;
but the
man of few words that are barren of ideas is dull, stupid and
a bore.
Mental vision is the eye of the mind back of the physical eye.
Here it is employed to see what happened in history when
Caesar had his Brutus. The whole scene can be made to pass in
review in less than one one-hundredth of a second. Then the
eye of the mind shifts to another great crisis in human affairs,
when Charles the First had his Cromwell. What happened then ?
Now the warning is given that George the Third, what ?
In uttering these words, the body should remain fixed and
wholly immovable ;
not a twitching of a finger, nor the batting
of an eyelid. Stand facing a mirror, and look into your own
eyes until they burn with your gaze, and the reflection burns
back to you. Let the voice be low in tone, low in musical pitch,
but spoken naturally ;
and repeat the words with the vital
centres of the preceding lesson and the vital muscles of the same
lesson, all in perfect position.
While combining these natural habits as one unit, hold the
entire body tense under the instructions given in the Department
that is devoted to that subject in a later part of this book.
In one trial you will find that you have tensed your eyes
and have given them an unusual brilliance. After a few trials
this glow will appear very distinct in a room that is absolutely
dark.
One more quotation will be furnished you here in order to
fix and complete this study of the tense eye. In the Patrick
Henry words we selected the one thought in all history that
was most charged with fire. We now pass to the drama and
select a thought that stands out as the greatest ever uttered in
that profession. It is from the play of Richelieu. He was
Prime Minister of France, and had for his ward a beautiful
girl named Julie. The king desired her for immoral purposes.
In that period, any person who was guilty or innocent who was
pursued and in danger of being arrested or captured, could
secure perfect safety by entering the precincts of a church, as it
142 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
was dangerous to follow. No soldier dared follow. When the
messenger came to arrest Julie and take her to the king, there
was no church at hand where she could flee and be safe. So
Cardinal Richelieu constructed a mental church into which he
thrust her, and thereupon defied the king's officer with the
following words :
"
She shall not stir ! Mark where she stands ! Around her
form I draw the awful circle of our solemn church ! Set but a
foot within that holy ground, and on thy head yea, though
it wore a crown, I'd launch the curse of Rome !
"
The mental picture is that of Richelieu in the centre, the
king's officer forward obliquely on the right of the Cardinal,
and Julie forward obliquely on the left. While he gazes on the
officer with tense eyes, he draws the imaginary circle about
Julie on the floor without removing his fixed gaze from the
officer.
It is an old rule of power in speech that the shorter the words,
if they are filled with vital ideas, the more magnetism they
convey. In the final or climax part of the above utterance, it
will be seen that the last seventeen words are all monosyllables.
Make use of the same directions that we have given for the
Patrick Henry quotation, and apply them to the Richelieu
quotation. Repeat this in a fixed attitude, looking at the
imaginary officer until he seems to stand before you in the flesh,
and so proceed slowly, carefully and with the firm determina-
tion of mastering both the officer and the king.
Before this book is closed we will show you the many great
victories that may be won by the tense eye.
DEPARTMENT OF
INSTANTANEOUS
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
LESSON TWENTY-FOUR
PREPARING THE WAY
BUSY
PEOPLE IN THIS AGE of haste and hurry do
not take much interest in a course of training that is
founded on nothing but exercises. Such a profession
as that of singing or playing a musical instrument
will, from its very nature, require long and tedious application
to exercises which would not be performed if there were any
other way to reach the desired end. Very few young folks like to
practise on a piano, or violin, or any other thing hours and hours
every week ;
and some of them rebel against it most vigorously.
But the woman who has been told that she possesses a
charming voice, and that she could earn a living by having it
cultivated so that she could sing in public, faces a different
proposition. Her name and fame, if not her livelihood, are the
goals. She knows from reading and being told that the road to
any art is long and time is fleeting ;
so she is willing to be
taught the many exercises that lay the foundation for a
finished voice ;
in some cases requiring from five to seven or
more years of hard work. With her it is practice, practice,
practice. Men singers also must practise long and tediously
before they can secure opportunities for displaying their gifts.
Few indeed of the world's vocal artists have leaped out of
the uncultured class of natural singers into the accomplished
class of successful performers. Art as developed among painters
requires from five to ten years of practice, and some after
years of experience. Even the prize-fighter must go through a
143
144 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
process of training to become recognized as fit for fighting ;
and
before each important engagement he must again devote weeks
or months to renewed training. All sports to-day require some
development and some training as may be seen in both the
amateur and professional ranks.
When a prospective student of personal magnetism is asked
to enter upon this study, he naturally wishes to know what he
has to do, and how long he must devote himself to it before he
shows results. Before an answer is given, it should be under-
stood that personal magnetism is life itself. It enters into every
moment and second of the waking hours of the day and night,
and it keeps companionship with every man and woman down
to the last days of existence. It is a part of them. It is en-
grafted into their blood, their nerves, their brain, their thoughts,
their activities, and their associations with all other human
beings in all phases of life.
A habit is a manner of living.
Personal magnetism is a habit.
Therefore it is and should be a manner of living.
Living includes the expression of thoughts, of feelings, the
activities of solitude and of association with others, and the
operations of life that are going on within the body and all its
parts and functions.
Personal magnetism becomes a vital part of living in all these
phases.
Therefore it is not the result of exercises, but of habits.
It is true that there are qualities that may be acquired in
shorter time when they are aided by exercises that stimulate
them into action ;
but the entire scope of the study may be
made to include only habits without the aid of exercises.
Nearly every great man and woman has been started on a
successful career by reading. Sometimes it is biography ;
often other lines of reading. We know of the sailor who found
a book that told of the life of a great man ;
he left the sea and
became one of the most famous preachers of his time. He
always said the book did it. We have read of a carpenter who
was loaned a book which described the struggles of another
great man and his ultimate success ;
the tools were thrown
aside, and the carpenter entered upon a new career in which he
won great triumphs. Henry Wilson, the cobbler of Natick,
PREPARING THE WAY 145
Massachusetts, U.S.A., stopped some school children on their
way home, and asked them to explain to him the letters
of the alphabet. In time he learned to read. He was Vice-
President of the United States when he died in 1875. Daniel
Webster was loaned a copy of Milton's Paradise Lost, and
he memorized every word of it. This work led to his desire
to know more, and he entered college. But the style and
inspiration of Milton followed him all through life, and prevailed
in his great orations. It has been claimed that not a single great
man or woman has been born great, but that their inherent
powers have been stimulated into action by what they have read.
Biography is full of such incidents.
These facts being so, and it being true that personal magnet-
ism is a part of the act of living, the conclusion was not difficult
to reach that almost all the help that a man or woman needs in
acquiring or developing this power can come from reading a
book that presents a complete system on the subject. Exercises
may help to hurry the development, but they cannot do more.
Reading alone may accomplish vast results.
Our New Method therefore consists chiefly in showing the
way by the instructions contained in the lessons, from which
we form the vital habits that bring the results required. But
we add all the necessary exercises for those ambitious students
who wish to make all the speed possible.
A single idea has inspired many a person.
A word or two may change a habit.
A word or two may completely turn the individual around
and face him in the right direction when we see him going in
the wrong direction. A very good singer who was too poor to
pay for lessons in vocal culture was filling the position of
soprano in a city choir, but with poor success. A friend told
her that she was trying to make her notes with her throat in
the wrong position ;
she was told what was correct ;
to use a
figure of speech, she had been going in the wrong direction, and
was turned around and faced in the right direction. A faulty
tone is rasping, harsh to listen to, and repellent. All persons,
as far as personal magnetism is concerned, are either
1. Attractive ;
2. Neutral ;
or
3. Repellent.
146 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Whatever will irritate the brain of another person will irritate
the nervous system. A harsh tone or faulty note is irritating.
You cannot irritate and attract. But we will see more of this
later as we proceed.
The purpose of this lesson is to prepare the ground for the
development of instantaneous personal magnetism ; by which
we mean the formation of magnetic habits without the trouble
and delay of practising exercises. It is easily possible to acquire
some useful degree of this power in one day after you have
finished a careful reading of the book. Further, it is easily
possible to know that you have acquired this first degree ;
to be
conscious of the fact that you have become partly attractive,
less repellent, and have ceased to remain neutral. But you must
read every word of the book before you begin the new life, for
such it will prove to be.
Read slowly, not in the desire to get through, but with the
purpose of understanding every word, every idea, every sug-
gestion. It will pay you to do this. Become a good reader,
and you will become a good thinker. Go off by yourself, or else
keep the companionship, if in the evening, of some loved
member of your family, and read aloud if permitted and desired,
or to yourself otherwise. When you have given the first
thorough reading of the book your absorbed attention, you will
have become worth to yourself fully twenty-five per cent more
than you were before. This is gain. It has always been our
practice to read an important book twice. If you do this, your
gain will be still greater. Then you will be ready for the progress
that we call instantaneous personal magnetism, which will
begin in the next lesson.
This progress will be so great in a very short time that it
will be known to yourself and to others who meet you in the
daily activities of life. Let it then be understood that the
exercises of this book are designed for those who are exceedingly
ambitious, while all others will develop this power by change
of habits through reading alone.
LESSON TWENTY-FIVE
IMMEDIATE PROGRESS
HAVING
READ SO FAR very carefully and patiently,
the student is now to learn what is meant by instan-
taneous personal magnetism. It means the immediate
beginning of its development, the consciousness of possessing
it, and the use of it in every phase of life. We have learned
that young people generate vast quantities of magnetism,
and lose it all by the waste of youth ;
or the uncontrolled
activities that use up all the dynamic energy of early life
in those who are normal. It is the superabundant vitality
running itself without a controlling and directing engineer.
This is called leakage.
It is not possible to check it in youth, nor is it desirable to
do so. Nature is taking its course.
But this leaking continues into maturity and keeps up the
waste without check, although the wastage is far less then, or
death would come in the form of fatal nervous prostration.
That malady is due to the continued, unchecked loss of mag-
netism, while neither the patient nor the doctor knows how to
stop it. No physician has ever learned how. Medicines, drugs,
pills and electric treatments have been tried without success
to effect a cure. Change of climate, change of living conditions,
change of diet and of habits have been tried, but all have
failed. The victim of nervous prostration or neurasthenia goes
on slowly to the grave. Magnetism is being wasted faster than
it is being generated ;
this is the whole story.
It has been proved that if all the abnormal leakage of the
body can be stopped, there will occur an immediate accumula-
tion of magnetism. We say of the boy whose vitality is one
hundred per cent that it must have vent. If the grown-up
person accumulates magnetism, which is the vitality of that
age, it may seek opportunities for giving itself vent ;
and these
M7
148 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
come naturally in the prolific thinking of the mind, the thirst
for real knowledge in place of sensational news and worthless
books/ the desire to do something instead of sitting around
aimlessly* and the wish to bring light and sunshine into the lives
of others who are near and dear to us. Unselfishness takes the
place of the narrow conception of duty to those who can be
made more appreciative of interest in them.
The possession of magnetism is generally the difference
between success and failure. A lawyer who believed in himself
and who was somewhat magnetic and knew it, complained that
he was not winning his way as he should, and asked why.
"
You are too fidgety/' was the reply. This means that his
magnetism was being wasted by useless motions of hands and
feet, and of the whole body at times. A fidgety man is unattrac-
tive, and all persons are either attractive, neutral or repellent.
There never was and never will be a man or woman of fidgety
habits who can attract. Here is a double loss. The irritating
motions repel of themselves, and they cause leakage as well ;
hence such a person fails to get on in the world. A very brief
reminder is all that is necessary to cure the fault. In the case
of the lawyer, it made so much difference that, when he had
caught its meaning, he instantly rectified the trouble, and from
that time he became successful. From this account it might
seem that this single fault was all that stood in the way of
becoming magnetic. It is one, at least, of the many faults.
A woman complained that She could not win friends of the
right kind, and was told that she distressed them by using a
high pitched voice. This kind of a voice is merely one that
makes use of the upper notes such as are found in the musical
scale, but spoken instead of being sung. In order to know just
what is meant, turn to the Department of the Magnetic Voice
and there find the nine pitches with their quotations. Then
repeat the quotations of the four highest pitches, or the sixth,
seventh, eighth and ninth. Imagine a woman carrying on a
conversation lasting minutes or hours and employing no other
pitches than one or more of these four upper ones.
It is a well recognized fact that the higher the pitch of the
speaking voice the greater the irritation on the ear-nerves of
the listeners.
These ear-nerves communicate with the brain centres and
IMMEDIATE PROGRESS 149
there transfer the vibrations or waves received by the ear. In
a high pitched speaking voice as well as singing voice, there
are many more vibrations of sound than are found in the lower
pitches. Thus a person who avoids the upper pitches and uses
the middle or lower ones, relieves the listener of many vibrations
in each and every second of time ;
and as a person may engage
in a conversation that lasts for minutes or hours, the accumu-
lated number of vibrations that are escaped are a great relief
to the nerves and brain of those to whom the remarks are made
while the conversation is in progress. The woman to whom we
refer caught the idea in the briefest possible time, and mended
her ways. It required no exercises, no training, no time spent
in building up something different from what she was naturally.
It was the suggestion that showed her doing the wrong thing,
and told her what was the right thing. Then her cleverness did
the rest.
Another woman complained that she did not win friends and
seemed to be repelling those whom she sought. She was told
that she talked too fast and too much. Much as we do not
like to say it, no man or woman who talks too fast or too much
is magnetic. Here again we see the irritating effect of the
accumulated number of voice vibrations that attack the ear-
nerves, and through them the brain itself. Many thousands of
these vibrations strike small but decisive blows against the
ear-nerves and the brain, and it is like so many strokes of a
microscopic hammer hitting these sensitive parts. There is a
normal rate of speed that is readily made magnetic ;
but when
you double it, you double the thousands of hammer strokes that
are thrust against the brain of the listener, and irritation ensues.
It requires a genius of the highest order to speak rapidly and
effectively ;
and such methods must be varied by modulation
of the best quality. Bernhardt could do it, but she had few
imitators. Soprano singers need longer periods of absolute
silence than others ;
and the best of them refrain from using the
voice for hours and sometimes days before a public appearance.
They talk with pad and pencil.
The woman to whom we referred as talking too fast made an
effort to talk slowly, but could not maintain it. Her husband
used to sit within range of her vision when they were with
others, so that he could signal her to reduce her rate of speed.
150 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
But a person who must be coached in this way is hopeless
as far as overcoming this fault is concerned.
A minister said that he had no magnetic control over his
hearers. We attended his church one Sunday, and the next
day told him that he used a monotonousjdtch. He did not
know what that was. He knew that he was not using too high
a pitch, but the idea that, while he kept the pitch down, he made
it monotonous was new to him. Anything that is monotonous
strikes the brain nerves too often in one way. It concentrates
as it were on one spot. The old incident of driving a man insane
by forcing him to sit under a tank of water placed above him,
from which a single drop fell upon one spot on his head, at the
rate of one a second, carries in it the real principle that affects
all faults along this line.
If you are compelled to hear one note all the time, the blow
falling on the nerves of the brain will make you insane. A
very small noise at night, if it is the same all the time, without
the relief of variation, will so irritate the brain as to do it
injury. A man who plays one tune without change, even if it is
melodious and pleasing for a while, will nearly drive every one
crazy who is compelled to listen to it. The human brain cannot
long endure monotony in any form. There is more insanity
among the women of the farms than among those of the cities,
because they lead a life of dreary monotony.
It is for these reasons that the minister whom we have
mentioned was unmagnetic. He preached along one part of the
pitch, even if it were the pleasing part, which is around the
middle of the vocal range, known as the magnetic pitch. Relief
from this kind of monotony is secured by the cultivation of
modulation, or the movements of the speaking voice that
employ a variety of pitches for the expression of thought. More
than this the really magnetic speakers and conversationalists
employ the movements of modulation in harmony with the
variations of thought.
This is getting too deep for the ordinary student, and we will
pass it on for a later lesson. It involves the finest points in
voice training, and is fascinating as well as magnetic ;
but it
requires practice, and we have agreed to avoid the practice part
of our method as much as possible. In the Department of
the Magnetic Voice we furnish training that will need some
IMMEDIATE PROGRESS 151
practice ;
and this will be fully provided in the latter part
of this book.
The point we are making here is that any kind of monotony
irritates the listener, and no persons can be attracted to you if
you irritate them. This is common sense. The minister learned
to use his voice with proper modulation and soon became very
successful in his work.
Another man who was in business complained that he seemed
to drive customers away, and that his efforts to increase
patronage failed at every turn. We studied him from a vantage
place in his shop and found that he used his voice with four
faults : the pitch was too high, the tones were unvaried and
monotonous, the rate of speed much tooTast, and he closed the
upper part of his throat in talking, making a guttural, barking
sound as he spoke.
This brings us to one of the most unmagnetic faults of the
human voice ;
a fault that repels instead of attracting. When
the voice is developed by the drifting methods of Nature, it runs
to some kind of faults, just as a beautiful garden, left to the
management of Nature, will destroy itself by weeds. Many
thoughtless people say they prefer to remain natural than to
cultivate good habits, and their argument seems unanswerable,
which is :
"
Nature knows what she is about, and the only proper
way of living is to let her do as she pleases." But when this
argument is applied to the raising of flowers, fruits or foods,
it shows Nature as an unruly impulse in all departments of
living things and living organisms. This unruly impulse, when
controlling the human voice, brings into it as many faults as it
brings into the garden which is left to itself.
There is no vocal fault so common and so almost universal
as that of closing the upper part of the throat in speaking or
in singing. TKe skilled teacher of the coming genius of opera
attacks this fault first. One of the methods is to place the end
of the handle of a teaspoon on the back of the tongue, and
so force down the roots of the tongue, with the result that the
throat will open in its upper part. Another method that is
employed by teachers is to direct that the student swallow,
and note the position of the larynx, or Adam's apple, in the
throat ;
and in tone production keep that organ down where it
went in the act of swallowing. This last process may be
152 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
misleading, for the larynx tries to rise just before it performs the
real act of swallowing, and it is the latter part of this act that
is helpful in getting the throat open. So another plan was
adopted, and it proved a better one. It was that of imitating
the gape ;
or trying to open the back of the mouth and upper
throat as a person does who gapes. This succeeded. When
once it can be done voluntarily, which should require but a
few minutes of practice, it can be done always at will.
The closed upper throat is an effectual barrier to a decent
singing voice ;
but it is a common fault in speaking.
It produces voices that irritate and repel in every department
of life, and that therefore are non-magnetic.
In a state of Nature this closed position means dislike, and
under more pressure it means hatred. It can be seen at once
that such a mood is unattractive ;
and although it cannot be
translated by a non-export, it is felt instinctively as a repellent
tone position. Among beasts it produces the hiss of the cat
and all cat-like animals, and the warning hatred of other life
below the human species. The growl of the dog has its origin
in the same position. Hence to hear it in the voice of man
or woman is to feel as if there were more of the growl and
threat there than attractiveness. The health of the throat,
also, becomes involved in this closed position, for it rasps the
membrane, which is very delicate at that place.
This does not imply that every repellent voice is rasping.
Any tone that is produced with the upper throat closed is
disagreeable, even if it is merely a closed tone. The natural
impulse that causes the closing of the throat is born of a dis-
agreeable temperament, and this influence is always repellent.
The cure of this trouble is to be found in correcting the
throat position in the manner we have described. It is a very
quick procedure if our instructions are followed as given. Just
as soon as the upper throat is opened, it should be held flexibly
open all the time you are talking ;
and this applies also to
public speaking ;
and is absolutely necessary in singing. There
can be no real singing voice until this position is acquired and
made an easy habit.
As soon as you master this simple matter, you will notice
that the character of your voice will at once undergo a change
that is revolutionary in its nature. Every harsh and repellent
IMMEDIATE PROGRESS 153
note will disappear. Better volume, which before was wholly
impossible, will follow. Then there will be purity, attractive-
ness and winning qualities to reward your brief effort at mending
a fault that stands between you and success in your influence
over others. The closed throat fault reacts upon every person
who possesses it, and it is present in ninety per cent of all
voices. Very few persons are free from it. Hence we seek to
eliminate it at once.
The troubles that c^re cited in this lesson are not all by any
means. There are many others, and they must be given
consideration as we proceed. Like the garden that is left to the
drifting impulses of Nature, humanity collects multitudes of
weeds, and also like the garden which is overrun with weeds
when left to Nature, humanity needs a bit of cultivating.
Human intercourse is so constituted that the means of
communication between one person and another are confined
ordinarily to the use of the eyes and of the voice. These furnish
the channels for the exercise of the power of personal magnetism.
Incidental to them are the uses of touch and of
thought.
Luther Burbank by placing one hand on the chest of a person,
and the other hand on the back, was able to throw so powerful
a current of magnetism into a person that cures were effected
that defied all treatments of science or medicine. This is the
use of touch.
Ideas are also tremendously magnetic.
But in the wear and tear of life, in the multitudinous
activities of the day, the voice becomes the agency of magnetic
control in ninety per cent of all communications ;
and so simple
an idea as to allow it to develop itself into an instrument of
wondrous beauty by merely adopting the habit of maintaining
the open throat in order to give forth pure tones, and of
acquiring a pleasing and harmonious modulation in speech, is
?
charged with the potency of a complete revolution of the life-*
habits of an individual, and this change may begin in a single
day.
LESSON TWENTY-SIX
"
FIDGETS "
WE
PURPOSE NOW to look ahead and collect in
systematic form the causes that militate against the
natural acquisition of personal magnetism. They
are causes that, once overcome, leave the individual really
far advanced in the development of this power. Not all of
them can be conquered at once, but from day to day one by
one they may be given attention, until all are driven out of
life. But no person may possess all these faults. If some are
lacking, so much the better. You will have no trouble in
recognizing those that handicap you ;
nor will you set yourself
against trying to drive them away, on the theory that you are
exempt when the facts are otherwise. You will be fair with
yourself.
All non-magnetic persons lose each day as much natural
magnetism as they generate in the act of living.
If they lose more than they generate they die of nervous
prostration if this difference is maintained.
The losses occur through what are called leakages.
A leakage in the study of personal magnetism is a waste of
natural electrical energy through some fault.
The leakages may be of physical, nervous or mental character.
A physical leakage occurs when muscular energy is thrown
away without purpose and without control.
A nervous leakage occurs when some vital energy is thrown
away by the erratic action of the nervous system.
A mental leakage occurs when the thoughts persist in
exciting the brain erratically, and so exhaust its energy.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
The least magnetic of the so-called non-magnetic people
lose each day more vital electricity than is necessary to produce
the highest degree of personal magnetism.
'54
"FIDGETS" 155
The reverse of this proposition is necessarily true, that the
conserving of the energy thus wasted would result in the
development of personal magnetism of the highest degree. In
other words, if all losses from leakage were to be stopped,
nothing more would be required. The training and study might
cease right at this point. All this is true ; but, on the other
hand, it must be remembered that personal magnetism, no
matter in what degree it exists, is a power only, and that its
chief value is in its uses.
in this Department of Instantaneous Personal Magnetism,
we have promised to begin the development of this power at
once ;
even on the first day after this whole book has been
carefully read through once or twice.
This promise will be kept to the letter. Such development
will begin on the first day after the reading is completed ;
and
on the second day there will be more progress ;
still more on
the third day ;
and so on from day to day until the work of
development has advanced to a satisfactory stage.
On the first day a triple combination will do the work in
the manner to be stated in a subsequent lesson of this Depart-
ment. On the second day the same triple combination will do
the work, with only one part of the same advanced in order to
make due progress. And so on to the end of this Department.
The changing or movable part of the triple combination is
the battle with some different form of leakage. This makes
it necessary for us at the present time to set forth the groups
of Leakages ;
the first of which is the Physical Group, whereby
muscular energy is thrown away without purpose and without
control. These are as follows :
~~"
"TTThe Fidgets. These have been referred to in a preceding
lesson. Everybody knows what they are. You have seen
them in all classes of people, and know the harm they have done
in your estimation. Here may be seen your family doctor ;
suppose he is restless, fidgety and ill at ease. Your confidence
in him is weakened ;
nor do you have to know anything of the
rules of magnetism to form your estimate of him. Any man,
woman or child can pass judgment in some way or other on the
restless doctor. The result is that he loses his clientele.
Then failure comes. On the other hand, let him be a stranger,
and yet well at ease, free from this fault, and you will quickly be
156 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
drawn to him. Self-mastery inspires confidence in others, and
success is much more probable.
If this restless man should be a surgeon, his usefulness would
come to an end at once. How about the dentist ? We recall
the case of one who was very much under the sway of this
fault ;
in the town where he set up practice, he could not make
friends in his profession, although he had excellent influence
socially and his wife tried to make herself as popular as she
could. A wide circle of friends did not create the practice
needed. The fault was that he was restless and did not inspire
confidence. He brought the matter to our attention. He took
up the study of the enemies of magnetism ; overcame his great
fault ;
moved to a town where he was not known ;
and very
quickly established a large practice, because he won the
confidence of the public.
Thus we see that what is apparently a simple thing, and
only a drop in the study of magnetism, is really almost a
turning-point in human life.
Now look in the legal profession, and note the calm, cool,
powerful control shown by one, and the fidgety manners of
another. The brain and judgment are not at their best when
the body is leaking vitality. Or look at the splendid bearing
of the self- controlled minister, as compared with the smallness
of the uneasy, squirming preacher. Many a Sunday have we
listened to some man who is addicted to meaningless gestures
that are mere motion ;
and we have noted that loudness of
voice does not hold the interest of the congregation, nor does
physical activity of the involuntary kind pass current for
earnestness. Such clergymen are numerous everywhere, but
we fail to find one who is genuinely successful.
True power is deep. The stronger the feelings, the less should
be their outward evidence.
""""
But it is on other grounds that restlessness weakens a man
or woman. The constant loss of vitality, flowing out with each
involuntary motion, soon saps the force that should underlie the
effort of the mind or body.
Then there is still another law at work. Restless people make
all beholders uneasy. The jury, the congregation, the school,
the friends in a social gathering, the business circles, the patient
or client, all are made more or less irritable by being compelled
"FIDGETS" 157
to watch the restless man or woman. The brain is soon fogged
by such irritability, and a fixed desire to get free from the cause
takes hold of every one. Instead of controlling others, they are
driven away, and after years will hardly serve to regain the
confidence that is thus lost, unless better methods are adopted.
Magnetic people are not restless.
Restless people cannot become magnetic.
Magnetism is a charm, not an annoyance.
Until you learn to hold the body still, as far as involuntary
motions are concerned, you cannot become magnetic. You may
try any and qvery method you please, but the power attained
will ooze out from the nerves just as a leaking battery will let
its energy escape when subjected to influences that draw away
the fluid that is stored.
Some persons get the idea that all that is necessary to acquire
magnetism is to practise some affirmative exercises. On the
same principle, if you buy the best locomotive boiler, and
puncture it with a hundred small holes, you would deem the
makers of the boiler at fault because it did not maintain its
power.
Affirmative acquisitions in this world must be supported by
attention to negative influences, or the latter will neutralize all
that the former may seek to accomplish.
Habits, good or bad, are quickly formed, and the brain will
execute them. At first it is necessary to study and think of
the many small involuntary motions you make ;
but in a few
days you will find the mind performing this duty for you. We
recommend that each student of these lessons ask some friend
to act as a critic. You cannot see yourself as you are seen, and
a critic should mention only your faults. Praise to an ambitious
person makes it difficult to tell the truth when the truth is
most needed. Honest advice is welcomed by the sincere
student.
The value of this lesson in the training of young men and
young ladies can be seen at once. Children are never magnetic,
for Nature encourages their restless activity as a means of
growth. But when they pass the age of fourteen or fifteen, the
strength of youth should manifest itself in a form of demeanour
that assumes to be culture and gentle deportment, although in
fact it is the quietude of magnetism.
158 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Education in schools along these lines is useless until the
ages mentioned.
But at that time, and all through the years that follow, it is
of the highest importance to^train the joeryes
to steadiness, and
the muscles to their voluntary uses only. Mere quietude is
harmful. It should be the covering of an accumulated power
within ; and, for this reason, the affirmative course of instruc-
tion in magnetism should accompany these lessons that are
only negative.
This volume must of necessity include both sides of the
training. The weeds must be removed from tfye garden, for
nothing will make progress when counter influences are choking
out all good impulses.
The removal of weeds is not enough. The destruction of
enemies is not enough, either in war or in life. There must be
a progressive and aggressive growth of affirmative power.
Nothing is so undesirable as the man or woman who is still
or quiet or self-contained because of deadness in the nature, or
lack of energy or power. The world is full of such people.
Churches, organizations and departments of social and govern-
mental life are already overcharged with dead folks who still
live. They are useless and in the way.
Magnetism gives life.
But first it is necessary to make room for that life, and there-
fore we must continue these lessons with the enemies of
magnetism.
It has been said by a very able critic that the best way of
overcoming the faults that stand as barriers to self-control is
the mental process of
"
thinking them away.
* *
Training is made
to take the place of culture, and is then called culture ; but this
quality is native only when it becomes a part of the individual,
and ceases to be a veneer. Thinking away one's faults produces
real culture.
LESSON TWENTY-SEVEN
PHYSICAL LOSSES
NOW
WE APPROACH a flood of Leakages that come
from the losses of muscular electrical energy that is
thrown away without purpose and without control.
These take place in all parts of the body, and generally at
some terminals. What is known as the fidgets applies to the
whole body, and in the manner which has just been described
in the preceding lesson. Terminal losses are localized and are
not as general as the fidgets. The latter attract more attention
because they are larger activities. Terminals lose a great
amount of vital energy on the principle that they release the
power much as points release electricity. We will describe
some familiar experiences, in which terminals form an important
part with others included.
Typewriting. It is a well-known fact that more than ninety
per cent of all who use the typewriter for any length of time
are restless and nervous. Under a system of smooth and easy
motion this nervousness may be controlled. There are two
kinds of touch for a typewriter : one that resembles the touch of
a skilled pianist, and the other that is a succession of pounds
with the fingers on the keys. The latter is the cause oTloss
of vitality. A smooth motion, as is seen in the most skilled
piano playing, does not tax the nervous vitality except as all
excess of work may weary for the time. Many a young lady
has suffered from nervous prostration because of too much work
at the typewriter, and doctors are constantly having to deal
with such cases. Any jerky movement is harmful to the vitality.
Winking. We have always attacked this fault first of all :
and not until the pupil is able to suppress at all times the habit
of moving the eyelids will there ever be a hope of acquiring
magnetism. Here is the battle ground for a majority of the
readers of these lessons. We are often told that the habit can-
i6o INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
not be cured, and our reply is, then give up the study of mag-
netism. But the habit is being cured every year in thousands of
cases, and consequently there is little virtue in the claim that
it is a hopeless task to get rid of it in every instance. Attention
is the sole method of overcoming it.
"*""""
Yawning. This fault is due to a low state of vitality, and the
person who is addicted to it is as far from magnetism as the
suri is distant from the darkest corner of a cave. It is not only
a clear evidence of weakness, such as follows indigestion in
nine cases out of ten, or loss of sleep, or wasting of the energy
as in excesses of any kind, but is also bad manners and bad
deportment. When the claim is made that it cannot be cured,
let the usual method of suppressing it be applied. This is to
omit every alternate yawn. The cure is complete. Even the
loss of sleep and indigestion cannot compel the yawn against
that cure. Omitting every other yawn soon reduces the number
to less than one in an hour, as the omissions become less and
less.
Face Motions. These are of various kinds. The most
common is the action of the lips, and especially of the tongue.
These are very small matters, but they have their influence for
ill. One of the signs of approaching senility is the habit of
constantly moving the tongue against the upper or lower lip, or
the lips against the teeth. It is evidence of weakness, and
magnetism is a power. Therefore the book of the face should
not bear records that are read by people at a glance.
There are other petty physical habits that might be included
in the list, but they are generally swept away by a successful
contest with those we have named.
While life demands activity, there is a large distinction
between regulated power, and force running away with itself.
What the will directs increases the power ;
and what is directed
at haphazard is sure to weaken the power.
Drumming. Some people drum with their fingers ;
some with
their feet. We have known many such drummers, and have
never seen one of them who was in the least magnetic. It is
not only evidence of Leakage of vitality but of exceedingly bad
manners ;
and persons who are ill-bred rarely get anywhere in
the world that is worth while.
Variety when not the spice of life. To show to what extent
PHYSICAL LOSSES 161
non-magnetic people lose their electrical energy, let us peruse
the following list :
Fingers. Not only as drummers on the table or anything
handy except an actual drum, do the fingers play their part, but
they have numerous other motions. They twirl the moustache,
if there is one. They rub against themselves as if brushing
crumbs away. They open and shut. They are interlaced at
times in a restless manner. They spread themselves. They rub
the chin, stroke the face, pull at the ears, caress the nose, and
engage in any kind of activity that they can invent.
The cook when making the toast scratches her head with
her finger nails and releases a lot of dandruff that otherwise
might remain intact.
The embarrassed lover, when trying for the first time to
propose to his lady friend, finds a coat button handy for his
fingers to work at and eventually to twist off ;
and not until he
has twisted from their fastenings all but one of the buttons on
the front of the coat does she accept him for the sake of saving
that final button. On other occasions men finger their coat
buttons as a habit and not due to embarrassment.
The number of both sexes who work their toes when the
latter are hidden in their shoes cannot be surmised ;
but this
fault is a familiar one, as all persons may easily believe
who know the eagerness of the terminals to throw off waste
vitality.
Leg Swinging. We have seen ladies sitting for an hour or
more, some of whom were wriggling the feet all the time, using
the hinge action of the ankle for the purpose. The action
consisted of pointing the toes towards the ceiling and immed-
iately dipping them towards the floor. This motion they were
not cognizant of, but nevertheless it was maintained without
cessation. We have seen other ladies and more men who
preferred to cross the legs at the knees, swing the whole lower
part of the limb forward and back, and sometimes right and
left when other persons present were not in the way. A
number of these added a special accomplishment by making
circles with the toes.
Non-magnetic Positions. In almost any office, you will note
the customary position of the body of the male clerk who is
sitting at the table or desk. He is slouched down far into his
11
162 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
chair, his head is lower than his feet, and the latter are resting
on the table or desk.
Most chairs are uncomfortable. They compel the person who
would use them for resting the upper part of the body to lounge
in them in strained positions even when merely sitting. The
common illustration of this fact is seen in the straight backs of
some church pews and of some drawing-room chairs. The cure
of this fault is to ignore the back and allow the body to rest
itself only as far as its sitting posture is concerned. After stand-
ing until you are weary, or after walking until any kind of
sitting support is acceptable, you are glad to get even a box
or log to sit upon, and may exclaim,
"
How delightful !
"
yet
the box as well as the log is without a back and you never notice
it. The support of the back is not required in most cases until
the body has been sitting too long ; then, instead of rising on the
legs as ought to be done, the custom is to shift the support from
the sitting posture to that of leaning back against something.
When this proves too monotonous, there is always an inclination
to lean farther back, until the hammock or the lounge is wanted.
During this process of wearing out the vital forces, the body
is getting more and more tired. It becomes a refreshing relief
to be able to lie down, and to thus employ the faculties in read-
ing or studying. This tired-out feeling is seen in offices and other
places where men and young men lounge into easy attitudes
until they are seen with feet on the table, and their heads far
below a normal relative position.
Where the circulation of the blood is interfered with, the
vitality is low. When the back receives any support the heart
lessens its efforts to push the blood through the body. Remove
the support from the back and the heart will do much more
vigorous work. Now stand, and the heart still increases its
activity ;
and this increase is very marked when you walk, and
quite energetic when you run, showing a steady, proportionate
effort of this great organ of life to keep pace with the demands
of the muscular system.
The more you rest, the more you will require rest.
^The more you favour the back muscles, the more you will feel
inclined to do so.
The more you sit with raised feet, lowered head and resting
back, the more you will want to do these things.
PHYSICAL LOSSES 163
(The
more you lie abed, the more you will have to lie in bed.
The less you stand, the less you will be able to stand.
The less you walk, the less you will want to walk, except in
certain abnormal instances where the deadness of the muscles
rebels and a few minutes' walk is refreshing ;
but the weariness
afterwards will make you declare that you will not give way to
such indiscretion again. Then, awaking to the fact that you
are muscularly lazy, you try to atone for years of weakness by
a few days or weeks of exercise, with the result that you break
down the exhausted tissue and do yourself a permanent injury.
Habits should be changed slowly if they affect the body or any
of its faculties. Immoral habits may be changed by moral
surgery, and haste never makes waste.
Another straining position is that which lets the chest fall
down on the stomach. It ought to be trained out of all children
from the first years of their schooling. This almost universal
fault is the first step in consumption. Bold as the declaration
may seem, we nevertheless make it, that you will not find
consumption or its symptoms in a man or woman who is free
from this bad habit. The fallen chest is weakness itself, and
the heart is crowded and checked in its work. The raised chest
compels the heart to do more work ; its blood is drawn with
remarkable energy all through the interiors that feed the lungs,
and the vitality is such that the germs of tuberculosis could not
long live there. You who would like to do good in the world,
take this one proposition into the lives of all men and women,
into homes and into schools, and note how a small principle
will revolutionize humanity.
One fact is not generally known ;
it is this : The upper lungs
never receive air from an ingoing breath, but always from a
repressed, energetici_out-gping breath, as when it accompanies
some physical effort, or is forcibly discharged through the
partly closed mouth. This effort should be tried occasionally.
LESSON TWENTY-EIGHT
NERVOUS LOSSES
LIFE
IN THE HUMAN BODY on the animal side is
physical, nervous and mental ;
not meaning that
animals are mentally endowed, but that man is born
in the animal kingdom with these divisions of his being.
We have discussed in the preceding lesson the losses that occur
by Leakage in physical activities. We now pass on to nervous
wastefulness. A fidgety person may or may not be nervous.
Nearly all nervous persons lack the fidgety faults. They may
be very calm and self-contained until some little thing happens
to startle them. In fact, they force themselves to be calm as
much as possible, knowing the likelihood of flying off their
nerves, as they term it, at almost nothing.
Some men and most women scream at the sight of a mouse,
spider or snake. The calm judgment of the mind would show
the folly of such giving way to this nervous weakness ;
for a
person of high intelligence would not find anything to cause
fright in any of these objects of creation. One such experience
drives out more vital energy than can be stored in three days.
Sudden starts. These are trifles in themselves, but they work
havoc with the nerves, and what lowers the tone of the nerves
will always lessen the magnetism.
Sudden Stops. These may apply to the whole body or to any
part of it. They are quite frequent as we will see a little later
on in this work.
Trembling. This is not the shaking of fright, so much as the
unsteadiness of hand which many persons allow to fall into
habits of senile weakness early in life.
Sighing. This is due to a low state of respiration. It denotes
that the nervous system is out of order. Like yawning, it will
disappear as the affirmative lessons of this course of training are
put into practice.
164
NERVOUS LOSSES 165
Short Breathing. This is a habit distinct in itself, and grows
if left to itself. It invites the open mouth breathing which is
injurious to the health. All usual respirations should occur
through the nostrils. Magnetic people breathe deeply and never
pant.
Halting Speech. Strange as the assertion may seem, it is
nevertheless a fact that not one person in two hundred talks or
speaks without halting. The usual expression when the halt
comes is uh as a little observation will prove. In speaking
formally at meetings, or even in businesss conversations, the
habit is very prevalent. The cure of it is to speak smoothly by
direction of the will.
Rapid Talk. Vehement and earnest delivery in speaking, or
in conversation, is one thing ;
but the habit of rapid talking is
quite another. Vehemence generally helps to increase mag-
netism, if the body is tensed and free from the enemies to which
we have referred. ;
but rapidity of talk is one of the quickest
methods of destroying vitality. Nervous prostration is the
penalty of the man or woman who talks much and talks
We know of many cases where persons are all tired out after
an afternoon of gossipy talk. Recently our attention was called
to a woman of great wealth who said that she would give a
liberal reward for some treatment that would check her nervous-
ness and loss of vitality. In looking into her habits, we found
that she was an incessant and ragid talker. Not wishing to offend
her, we outlined a course of conduct that required four weeks of
silence. She was told that she must use pencil and paper for
all her communications she wished to make ;
and to appease
her curiosity we showed her a letter from Patti, the English
prima donna, in which the latter spoke of her habit of always
refraining from conversation, and using paper and pencil,
during the days preceding her engagement to sing at night.
When Patti adopted this plan for the purpose of saving her
voice, she found that it saved her vitality as well. The four
weeks of silence resulted in a complete cure of nervousness and
low vitality. We do not recommend silence in ordinary cases ;
but we do suggest that those who talk much cannot become
magnetic.
The orator of greatest powers is always a man of few words
166 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
when not engaged in speaking. The same is true of the
actor.
There are many reasons, mostly of policy, why a person should
be addicted to few words. Total silence may seem like shyness,
but a moderate degree of this quality is helpful to any man or
woman. As a rule, the less you talk, provided you talk some
and talk sensibly, the more you are respected ;
and the person
who is able to command respect has easy sway over others in
the use of magnetism.
A person sits in a hall or church ;
some one drops a book ;
the former gives a general start of the whole body, sighs, leans
back and suffers from the weakness engendered. In that one
motion of the body a great volume of magnetic vitality leaped
forth.
A person is walking upon the street ;
a friend comes up from
behind and slaps him on the back ;
he jumps, catches his breath,
turns pale, and is soon himself again, but weaker.
A woman thinks she sees a mouse in the room. With one
involuntary recoil she shrinks backward. The magnetism so
lost will not easily return in a week.
Something occurs to attract the attention. A jump is made
from the chair to the feet. Vitality is lost.
A touch of the finger against something hot causes a sudden
movement of the arm and upper body backward. Life is
thrown off in such action.
We might cite thousands of cases, all of which depend upon
the element of suddenness resulting from whatever may startle.
Is it possible to conquer such tendencies ? Yes ,
there is no
person of a reasonable degree of intelligence who will not
become supreme monarch of himself if he sets out to do so and
has a system of training to guide him to success. Who is more
nervous than a very nervous woman ?
A Mrs. Brown was moving about the house one evening,
having got into her night attire ready for bed. A lady relative
of about her age was in another room similarly attired ;
she
followed after Mrs. Brown, making no sound whatever, came up
to her and laid her hand upon her cousin's shoulder. Mrs.
Brown gave a start that took her a yard or two before she
stopped. She collapsed with weakness. A year later the same
thing occurred again, except that her husband was the offender.
NERVOUS LOSSES 167
He came up behind her with noiseless steps and laid his hand
upon her shoulder, thinking that she knew he was there. She
was more startled than before and became weaker.
Under the advice of her doctor, who was a student of our
system of magnetism, Mrs. Brown took up the study of self-
mastery. In three months she conquered her great fault. One
night after twelveTshe arose from her bed in the dark and
proceeded to get a drink of water in an adjoining room. Her
husband was awakened, got up, followed her noiselessly and they
met in the dark. Mrs. Brown writes as follows :
"
I did not
know he was awake. I had no idea that he was coming into
the room. His hand was outstretched as if feeling his way along
in the dark. It was a cold hand and laid itself on my face. I
was as much surprised as if I had been touched by a corpse fresh
from the grave. A year before I would have screamed, jumped
and no doubt fallen into a dead faint. Since I began the study
of magnetism I have learned to hold my nervous system as solid
as a rock. I have schooled myself against everything." Her
case is cited as one of a large number of persons who have
acquired the much-coveted one of self-mastery.
The very same movements that demagnetise when made
involuntary, will develop magnetism if done under the control
of the will or if accompanied by internal energy.
A very good illustration of the losses that occur from sudden
starts and sudden stops, may be seen from the action of water
on an object ;
if the latter is made to stop with a quick action
the water will be thrown off ;
and the same is true if it is made
to start suddenly. A quick stop of a train may throw a person
forward off the seat. A quick start of a carriage may throw a
person backward.
Magnetism is a force that is likewise thrown off by sudden
starts, stops and jerky motions. To overcome this, unless you
think of the fault by mental attention, it is a good habit to be
acquired by utilizing the motions of each day's activities in the
practice of starting and stopping all movements easily and
smoothly. In so doing, your general carelessness, and perhaps
awkwardness will wholly disappear, and so add to your power
of attraction.
LESSON TWENTY-NINE
MENTAL LOSSES
PHYSICAL
AND NERVOUS Leakages have been dis-
cussed in the two last lessons, and we now come to
the third part of human existence and find losses
flowing out of the magnetic fund of the mind as freely
as in the other divisions of life. These are not so easily
mended, although they do great harm in lessening a person's
influence in the world. Physicians say that more vitality is
lost and more injury is done to the system by means of mental
waste than in any other manner. This waste takes place in a
number of ways, and has two results :
1. It lessens the energy of every part of the body mind,
nerves, the functions of the organs, the power of digestion, the
power of accurate thinking, the respiration and the circulation.
It can be seen that it invades the duties of the Third Brain as
well as its own. This result is called self-injury.
2. By its various exhibitions of weakness and defects, it
invites the ill opinion of all persons who meet or associate with
those who suffer such losses. This is called the inability to
gain or hold the confidence of others ;
a quality that is abso-
lutely necessary in any kind of effort to succeed in life.
Mental losses are double acting, a danger that is charged at
both ends and that weakens the person who is the victim of
them, and repels others.
These losses are caused by some form of mental exhaustion,
or a set of influences that lead to such wear and tear on the mind
that it becomes a difficult task to control self or others.
The most dangerous and at the same time the most prolific
cause of mental exhaustion is WORRY. There are two kinds :
1. WORRY from causes that arise in the activities of life.
2. WORRY that is a mental disease.
The subject is almost unlimited, and all we can do is to
168
MENTAL LOSSES 169
suggest the methods that have been employed successfully in
the past to combat this trouble. A small library of books
might be written about it.
It is not at all difficult to ascertain what are the causes that
arise in the activities of life. These can be learned by the care-
ful plan of listing them as they become evident. From reports
sent us in the past forty years, we found the average number to
be in the neighbourhood of six ;
the least to be one, and the
greatest to be twelve ;
that is, there were a number of causes
at work to create worry. Half the victory is attained when
you know what these causes are and can put them down
in writing to be seen and studied. We have found that they all
disappear under the training of this book taken as a whole ;
for that is one of its great purposes.
But worry that is a mental disease is like cancer in the blood ;
it is there to stay for a while, and can be eradicated only by
a strong uphill fight that, if waged in the right and by the right
weapons, will bring victory. As that subject is not a part of
the proper study of personal magnetism, but is a disease, all
we can do is to express a willingness to make suggestions by
written correspondence if the student cares to send a letter of
inquiry to the publishers whose address is on the title-page of
this book.
Melancholy is a mental waste that not only destroys the
person's vitality but deprives him of the good opinion and
confidence of others without which there can be no successful
association with them. For this and the next trouble, a perfect
remedy is found in the Regime of Mental Magnitude which was
presented in an earlier lesson of this volume. The next trouble
referred to is known as
Pessimism. This is the opposite of optimism. We have
known of many men and women who have built up very
successful systems of personal magnetism instinctively by
employing optimism in combination with some method similar
to that set forth in the Regime of Mental Magnitude. Optimism
without the steering hand of good judgment and common
sense is mere gush ;
and there are men and women who
pour out this kind of nonsense in the presence of their friends
and acquaintances with no gains whatever unless some of these
persons are themselves wee^-minded. This effervescence is
i?o INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
generally followed by periods of reaction in which melancholy
prevails.
However, the misuse of a good thing does not put the latter
in disgrace.
The quickest way to accumulate personal magnetism, if a
person wishes to secure results the very first day after this book
has been read through in the manner we have stated, is to turn
your mind into that of an optimist ; but to be sure to harness it
to the Regime of Mental Magnitude so that its work may be
successful from the very start.
Do not go to the other extreme and overdo it. Do not gush.
Do not be flowery, as Scrooge said to Marley's ghost. Remem-
ber that optimism not given magnetic power by the Regime of
Mental Magnitude is a mere veneer, and can be seen through
by any keen mind. Your mind should be keener than the
keenest mind you meet in the battle of life.
Discouragement is another waster of magnetic energy. It
is always traced to the inability to see opportunities for advance-
ment in one's progress through the world ; or, if seen, to be
made to recognize the state of unpreparedness to take advan-
tage of them. Such persons suffer the most acute mental
reactions.
Youth is the time for making preparations for success ;
not
for wasting the valuable hours. And the same law applies to
middle life and any age in one's career. The man who when in
middle life was not able to read or write, and who afterwards
employed every spare moment in educating himself and rose to
the office of Vice-President of the United States, might have
lived and died a devotee to idle pleasures and frivolities. To
conquer discouragement it is necessary to move on in life. This
means to spend less than you earn ;
to add every day something
of real value to your stored knowledge, and fit yourself for
contact with people who are worth knowing. Five minutes a
day will in time give you control over those awful errors in
speech that keep you down to the very dregs of existence. Five
minutes a day will in time make you a decent speller and
decent grammarian ; yet bad spelling and bad grammar are
the greatest barriers to progress~ln the business alad social
world. These are examples selected at random of some of
the ways in which you can move on.
MENTAL LOSSES ijl
Surface Thinking. Magnetism is the power of purpose
intensely willed and carried to execution by the faculties. It is
of necessity an act of the mind, as well as of the heart and
nervous forces. Its enactment*is planned in the brain, and the
method of accomplishing the end sought is built in the thinking
powers.
The surface brain is a natural condition that allows the
individual to enjoy much thinking without carrying the burden
of thought.
The magnetic brain is deeper, and it becomes mightier as the
depth is sounded.
Surface Thinking includes :
Light reading, novel reading,
newspaper reading, games, play, puzzles, cards, social inter-
course, and many kinds of activities that do not come under the
class of work or study.
These are mental desserts. The purpose of any dessert is
to balance and give variety to the serious, the useful and the
heavier duties of life, no matter what Department is included.
It is true of the stomach. It is true of the mind. A rich man
can afford more desserts than the poor man, but the latter is
blessed with his limited purse, for desserts weaken when they
are out of balance.
It is arranged by Nature that the mental desserts shall affect
only the surface brain, as we call it in popular language. The
purpose is to call the blood and activity from the deeper portions
of the mind, and such relief is often a blessing. But there are
useful ways of establishing the balance between the two brains.
A person whose duties are mostly muscular is relieved by
mental efforts of any kind.
A person whose duties are mostly mental is relieved by
muscular toil or exercise.
In other words the sedentary person may seek variety in any
use of the muscles, and the toiler may seek change in any use of
the mind.
For the toiler to seek his relief in mental desserts is to throw
away the greatest opportunities he has of becoming a successful
power in the world. He needs relief, but he will get it even in
the hardest study. Why, then, should he use only the surface
of his mind ?
History is full of instances where men who have
worked with their muscles have also carried on the heaviest
17* INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
studies in the intervals, with the result that when their faculties
were ripe they leaped into power almost at a bound. But there
is not a single instance in all history where the toiler has become
useful in life, when he has turned from his labour to seek relief in
mental desserts. This one fact speaks volumes.
It should find deep root in the lives of those who wish to rise
from their humble stations. Let it be remembered that the
greatest men and women of the past have come from the
humblest ranks ;
but they have obeyed this instinctive law of
life.
Personal magnetism is not an empty acquisition. It is based
on something real ;
not on sham and pretence. The more you
acquire in the mind, the more accomplishments you cultivate in
the faculties, the greater will you become when these qualities
are harnessed to the power of controlling your fellow-beings.
By another law of balance, the realm of mental desserts is also
the only realm of worry, apprehension, fear of the future and
gloomy forebodings of all kinds.
The woman who deems life made for mental desserts is the
most wretched of all creatures ; despite the effort she makes to
establish the contrary belief in her friends. Her smiles are
forced. She is burying under a mountain all those better gifts
that God has placed in her charge, and she repays the trust by
reading novels, playing cards, devoting her time to play or
amusement and much worrying, with an ever-growing dislike
for the sweeter and more serious things of life. It is surface
thinking and the use of only the outer layer of the mind. Like
the stomach that feeds on nothing but desserts, there comes a
weakening and breakdown, a nervous unrest, or a tendency to
hysterics, or other cloud upon her existence. She sees all the
weakness of others, even in her own family, and they make her
unhappy, all the while longing for some excitement and some
form of stimulant in her pleasures, until at last her soul passes
over to the morbid chasm.
Mental desserts have their time and place, but nobody can
afford to make them the chief meal of the brain.
The millions of young men, and the countless thousands of
grown men in this country who hate any form of mental action
except desserts, are playing into the hands of those who pursue
the laws of Nature for more useful ends.
MENTAL LOSSES 173
That vitality which is magnetic and which gives to each
person the power to rule self and others, springs from the deeper
uses of the mind than the surface. It is for this reason that
few persons have any real mastery over themselves. In fact it is
so hard to put down temptation
that few care to essay it. The
cravings for eacElinH^very kind of harm are so supreme in these
weak lives, that vices are always on the increase.
Surface thinking is a petty matter. The sensations of the
press, the love for gossip, the criticism of neighbours, the
reading of magazines, the perusal of novels, the study of puzzles,
the playing of cards and other games, the idled hours in social
affairs, the worship of fine attire, the fascination for races, for
gambling and for games of chance : all these call into action the
surface brain and weary the deeper mind by their effervescence.
Most of them are harmless as far as actual injury is concerned ;
but they deprive the better faculties of their part in the plan of
existence.
There can be no magnetism where there are only mental
desserts to base it upon.
The athletes that win the great contests are not fed on
pie, cake, pastry, ice-cream, or sweets. Such a diet would
at once place them beyond all hope of even entering the
tournament. In fact, the rule is the opposite, for all desserts
are denied them during the long period of their preparation.
We have often been asked to outline for the ambitious young
man and woman, and the adult as well for no person is too
old to study, and student life makes all
young again some
studies that are most usefuTand that arouse the powers of the
deeper brain ;
and we append our usual list at this place :
As thought lives in words, and as the great people of the world
have been masters of words, we advise every ambitious person
to learn the synonyms of English, the shades^ of meaning in
English words, and their representative words in some other
language, notably Latin. This is an interesting line of study,
arid soon becomes quite fascinating.
The greater the number of words that a person is able to
use intelligently and with shades of meaning, the greater the
power of mind and thought that will be developed.
LESSON THIRTY
GAINS WITHOUT WAITING
DELAYS
IN THE ACQUISITION of a power so
valuable as that of personal magnetism should be
avoided because of the fact that much time will be
lost in coming to results that will bring gain and
advantage to the possessor of this gift. Time is passing and
the years will not wait on any unnecessarily slow process in
these efforts to move on to success. We have tried to make it
clear in this system that the magnetic power is a natural part
of the human body and its faculties. Thousands of men and
womerTliave possessed it by the manner in which they have
lived ;
and this has been their only training, but it has been
training nevertheless. They say that experience is a teacher,
and probably the best in the world ;
but it is a teacher ;
and its
pupils are those who have been bright enough to shape their
lives to its instructions.
Since the power we are discussing is a natural gift, whether
acquired by experience, or habits of living, or as the result of
suggestions and directing guidance,
or stimulated by exercises,
it still remains a natural gift, and as such mayHBellrawn into
the activities of life from the very start ; to-day, some of it
may be acquired and recognized ; to-morrow, more of it ;
and
so on without limit, for it is limitless in its
jjcqjjej being
life itself it is as far-reaching and all-embracing as human
existence.
You can learn to drive a car in one lesson, that is, a little way,
and farther in the next lesson, and so on. But you should read
up on the subject first. We ask only that you read this book
through as the beginning. Take time for it. Bead^ carefully,
slowly, understandingly. Then review the interesting parts ;
omitting the exercises that comeln thelatter half of the volume.
Then give a third reading to the R6gime of Mental Magnitude,
174
GAINS WITHOUT WAITING 175
as that furnishes the completed combination that makes this
power, as has been stated, a unit of all the operations of the
human organism.
The body is composed of material from chemical elements ;
and these are made up of molecules ;
these are built of the
combination of atoms ;
and each atom is composed of electrons
that are in the same kind of motion that prevails in our solar
system, with a central sun, and revolving planets. Thus the
material of which the human body consists is, in the ultimate
analysis, nothing but electrons, and all of these are generators
of magnetic energy. This is the material body.
Each cell in the body holds its intelligent centre, and when
these are brought together in masses, the result is the creation
of the brain.
The electrons of the body hold magnetism in a diffused state ;
and it is part of life to collect them in nerve centres or ganglia,
and in the brain mass. But it is easily possible to increase these
almost without limit ;
and an increase if it is not wasted by
the faults and Leakages we have described becomes magnetism.
Personal magnetism is a combination of Mental Magnitude
and the generated magnetism of the body.
These reasons are given here to show why we wish you to
read the Regime of Mental Magnitude at least three times
before beginning the actual work of developing this power as a
means of winning success in life.
Another bit of advice is added here. Read three times the
lesson in the Department preceding this which is entitled the
Magnetic Eye of Youth. We wish you to assume at once as
a new and fixed habit the control of the vital muscles, the
control of the chest, the control of the vertical carriage of the
head and body, and the control of the facial contractions. All
these influences make or mar your immediate success. You will
now have as the basis of progress :
1. The careful re-reading of the book.
2. The adoption of the Regime of Mental Magnitude.
3. The control of the vital muscles, the vital centres and
the facial contractions. After the reading of the book has been
concluded, the last two items will require only a few minutes
and this we call
THE FIRST DAY.
l?6 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
But the day's advance does not begin until after the reading
is completed and this must be remembered.
The next step is to retain what you have acquired to begin
with, and to add the study of the Mental Losses, in the pre-
ceding lesson, ending with the fixed purpose to acquire optimism
of the right kind. That lesson will tell you what is the right
kind. This we call
THE SECOND DAY.
Progress of a marked and distinct kind has been made by
the reading of the book ;
more progress has been made by its
review ;
andkstjlj more prQgrfigfl_hfta follftTOfjJJip, ma^ry of thft
f
^
MfiIlt^LMagnitudfi_and the control of the vital
muscles, the vital centres and the facial contractions. But very
decided progress attends the adoption of the right kind of
optimism. You will recognize your very sudden acquisition of
personal magnetism ;
and there will have gone out from you a
certain subtle but very distinct power which will reach others
and be felt by them without their knowing how it came about.
Unconsciously there will be paid you both respect and atten-
tion, and you will rise in their estimate of you. Yet this is
only the end of the second day.
Now you must adopt one of the dead^still positions that are
taught in a later part of the book. It is not an exercise, but a
habit. Keep all that you have acquired in the first two days,
and add some dead-still positions as stated. This we call
THE THIRD DAY.
Next you are to add one of the tensing habits taken from
another Department of the book, wGite retaimng all that you
have acquired. This we call
THE FOURTH DAY.
Now you add another of the dead-still positions ; keeping all
that you have acquired ;
and this we call
THE FIFTH DAY.
When we say that all you have acquired is to be retained,
you must remember that whatever becomes a habit takes no
time to use. It is not an exercise. It is a way of living.
THE SIXTH DAY requires attention to the Physical Losses
that are described in one of the lessons of this Department.
Select any one loss that you find of sufficient interest to be
discarded, and eliminate it from your list of Leakages.
GAINS WITHOUT WAITING 177
THE SEVENTH DAY is to be devoted to the elimination of
another Physical Loss.
THE EIGHTH DAY brings the study of the Nervous
Losses ;
and one of these should be overcome.
THE NINTH DAY deals with another Nervous Loss.
THE TENTH DAY includes consideration of a Mental Loss.
THE ELEVENTH DAY brings in another of the dead-still
positions, to be selected by you. Bear in mind that each day's
addition is to include all that has preceded. This may seem
difficult, but it is very simple when actually put to the test.
THE TWELFTH DAY adds another tensing habit.
THE THIRTEENTH DAY deals with another Physical
Loss.
THE FOURTEENTH DAY deals with all the remaining
losses, Physical and Nervous and Mental ;
thus ending them at
this time. If they cannot be overcome so readily, devote further
days to them after this list has been ended.
THE FIFTEENTH DAY adds one more of the dead-still
positions.
THE SIXTEENTH DAY includes another of the tenso
habits.
THE SEVENTEENTH DAY adds one more of the dead:
still
positions.
THE EIGHTEENTH DAY includes the tensj^walk.
THE NINETEENTH DAY goes back to the lesson in the
Department of the Magnetic Eye, under the title of the Vital
Eye, in which the Temple Generating or the Temple Pulling
habit is taught ;
and that habit is now to be fixed for permanent
use in developing the magnetic vitality of the eyes and face, as
well as brain. It is to serve a most important mission in your
life.
THE TWENTIETH DAY deals with the three middle pitches
of the speaking voice, called the fourth, fifth and sixth pitches.
Begin now to practise using them in conversation of all kinds,
whether at home or in other places.
THE TWENTY-FIRST DAY introduces the use of the tense
eye as taught in the Department of the Magnetic Eye.
THE TWENTY-SECOND DAY takes up the subject of
mental determination which is to play so important a part in
Applied Personal Magnetism and in Magnetic Healing. At this
12
i?8 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
time we can only consider the beginning of it, for it will require
weeks or months to fully unfold its possibilities, which are
really unlimited. Mental determination is a power that is
given to magnetism from the brain ; and, when developed, is
capable of accomplishing any purpose in life that can be
accomplished. It cannot do the impossible ; but, before these
lessons are ended, we shall show you that it can come close to
this achievement. It can come close also to the age of miracles
when brought up to its highest standard.
Mental determination is founded on the fully developed
magnetic powers of the body, the nerves and the brain.
Without all the magnetism that comes from these sources, it
would fall short in its work. For this reason we will only start
its work at this place. It is both interesting and valuable.
The only part of this study that we will introduce here is a
simple quotation that is intended to serve as an exciting
influence in firing the mind to secure its ends. This quotation
comes from the play of The Merchant of Venice, and is a demand
as well as expression of purpose made by Shylock who, on find-
ing that he is entitled by law to a pound of flesh from the
enemy to whom he made a loan, purposes to enforce the terms
of the bond in order to cause the death of the man he hates.
Therefore when he is offered more money than is due him, in
place of exacting the penalty, he insists on the latter. With fist
clinched, he stands facing the Judge, and says :
"
I will have my bond."
You are to repeat this with body tense, and dead-still,
holding the fist of the right hand forward and about on a line
with your hip, with the tones of your voice subdued but very
firm. On the first repetition, place the emphasis on the word
bond.
"
I will have my bond." On the next repetition, place
the emphasis on the word will.
"
I will have my bond." On
the next repetition increase the emphasis on the word will
without raising the voice.
"
I WILL have my bond." One
more repetition with the emphasis made still stronger on the
word will.
"
I WILL have my bond." But be sure not to raise
the voice. It is this increase of power by the mental force that
takes the place of noise-force, that develops the mental deter-
mination. It is a law of magnetism that any increase of the
will-energy that can be made without requiring the aid of the
GAINS WITHOUT WAITING 179
physical tones or physical body, will very speedily develop
mental determination.
The wonderful part of this determination is that it exists just
as strongly when no sound is made by the voice and no words
are expressed as with such sounds and words. Now the final
repetition is to be made silently but with tense fist and dead-
still
body. Speak the words mentally only, but look at the
imaginary Judge. If he were living before you we guarantee
that he would know your decision without your uttering any
spoken words. This is the beginning of the subtle power that
is able to sway men and women and to win its way in the world.
When we come to the Department of Applied Personal Mag-
netism, we will find inspiring opportunities for carrying on this
development in a variety of uses that show that its value is
greater than can be told in words.
In this Department of Instantaneous Personal Magnetism,
we have shown the way to come immediately into this power,
and to recognize your possession of it. The probability is
that you have advanced fully one-half of the journey in these
twenty-two days. That is, you are now fifty per cent or more
developed as a person of magnetism. This is a quick work. The
rest will be easy, but you will not advance so rapidly. Nor
would you wish to do so, for there is a pleasure and fascination
in pursuing these studies ;
and to have them come to an end
too soon would leave you missing them as you would miss a
beloved friend.
If you have not advanced half-way at the end of these twenty-
two days, the reason will be that you have not followed the
suggestion made, especially as to reading and re-reading the
whole book carefully before starting the first day. Then there
may be the reason that you have not given full attention to the
different requirements. Other students have made the progress
that we have indicated ; you are fully as bright as they are,
and perhaps you have skimmed over the suggestions and in-
structions, expecting they might be adopted with very little
attention. If we are right in this surmise, then we feel sure
that you will repeat the twenty-two days, and proceed more
carefully and studiously.
DEPARTMENT OF MAGNETIC
HEALTH
LESSON THIRTY-ONE
FOUL HABITS ARE REPELLENT
THERE
AEE TWO KINDS of health ;
one of the
general body including the flesh, the nerves and the
brain ;
the other relates to the electrical vitality
which is allied with the sources of magnetism such as
are described in this work. It is never a fact that mere
physical or mental or even nervous health brings magnetism
into use ; for there may be a dozen counteracting influences
that offset what is gained. There are robust farmers and robust
city dwellers who seem to possess perfect health, yet who are
lacking in personal magnetism. Any student of this book will
see why they are not gifted with such power.
On the other hand there are persons who seem very frail
who are quite magnetic. So there is another basis of success
other than mere health of the body and its parts.
But it is true that anything that saps the vitality prevents
the accumulation of magnetism ;
and PAIN of any kind is one
of the greatest enemies in this line, for it is exhaustive of nervous
and magnetic energy.
We have never seen a person who was suffering from the
toothache who had any magnetic control over others. This
affliction not only saps the vitality and draws away its vigour,
but sets up a still more dangerous enemy in the shape of
irritation.
Whatever will irritate a person, whether in physical pain,
or torture of the nerves, or mental aggravation, will rapidly
reduce magnetic power. This fact is known to most persons
who are crafty, who take advantage of it to destroy the coolness
180
FOUL HABITS ARE REPELLENT 181
and calm demeanour that are so attractive in an opponent. It
requires skill of personal management to ward off the attempts
of another to irritate you ;
but this is generally mental irritation.
}
Pain from toothache racks the nerves, if severe ; and vitality !
flows out of the body faster than it is generated.
We have never seen a person who was suffering from head-
ache, or rheumatism, or neuralgia, or neuritis, or other acute
malady, who was magnetic at such times ; although they might
have been highly so when conditions were normal. We recall
on one occasion hearing Beecher say in private that his last
address was a failure because at the time he had a most painful
attack of indigestion ;
and his hearers must have wondered why
he was so stupid ; yet under ordinary circumstances his personal
magnetism exceeded that of any public speaker of his times, and
his control over audiences was almost unlimited.
Pain. It is one of the axioms of magnetism that anything
that saps the life out of the nervous system is sure to demag-
netise the body, which means that no person can hope to acquire
power when the avenues of escape are as great as the oppor-
tunities of acquisition. Pain is the surest and quickest of all
enemies. It wearies mind, nerves and flesh. A boil will lower
the tone of the system through its exhausting influence, as
also will toothache, a headache, rheumatism, or any kind of
physical torture.
How to get rid of these enemies is easily answered. A boil
is not so great a problem, for the cure and the prevention are
both at hand. The same is true of headaches and rheumatism.
The toothache can be stopped in most cases by extraction or by
treatment. But, whatever the cause, and whatever the remedy,
the principle remains the same there can be no magnetism
where there is pain.
There are several reasons why bad teeth should be treated.
One is that they generate pain, and so sap the vitality . Another
is that they send into the blood and into the general circulation
of the whole body a virulent poison that affects the brain,
the mind, the heart, and especially the nerves. One tiny drop
of this poison contains billions of bacteria, and these spread
far and wide in the blood and do injury that until recently was
unaccountable. This injury may prove to be neuritis, or
rheumatism, or neuralgia, or brain taint affecting the processes
182 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
of thinking and even the criminal nature. Therefore the most
sensible thing a sensible person can do is to get rid of the
teeth if there is no other remedy.
But there is a still more potent reason why decayed teeth
should not be allowed to remain in the mouth. The odour is
offensive to those who must .come in contact with the breath
from such poison. In addition to this odour which is due to the
height of neglect in personal care, every exhalation carries out
upon the air millions of floating bacteria from open rottenness
both in the teeth and tonsils. Speaking of the modern insanity
known as
"
flirtation parties
"
in which painted girls with bad
tonsils, decayed teeth and intestinal poisons saturating the
breath through blood circulation, kiss and are kissed by boys
and young men with bad tonsils, decayed teeth and intestinal
poisons saturating the breath through blood circulation, a
physician says :
"
From knowledge obtained in a professional
way it may be stated with certainty that ninety-nine per cent
of these young people are foul physically, no matter what they
are morally." Such conditions are repellent, and therefore there
is no hope of magnetic attractions in them, and they grow up
as hopeless in after-life as now. They furnish the common
herd, without which there would be no chance for ambitious
people to rise in the world.
We have been informed of many cases where men with
decayed teeth have been rejected by women who were repelled
by this foulness. We have heard of many cases where women
with decayed teeth have been unable to attract and win men
worth having. Foulness is unmagnetic and therefore repellent.
People with more desire for wasting their money in frivolities
than for making themselves attractive, go through life losing
friends and opportunities because of decayed teeth ;
and we
have had information covering thousands of cases to tjie effect
that chances for getting on in the world and winning greater
rewards in every way, financially and otherwise, have been lost
because of the stupid refusal to spend some of their earnings in
getting cleanliness of the teeth, while they waste it for doubtful
forms of pleasure. They injure their health, lose friends, lose
respect of decent people, and lose opportunities for bettering
their financial condition. Only recently have we learned of
the case of a very brilliant young man who was in line of
FOUL HABITS ARE REPELLENT 183
advancement where his salary would have been a thousand
pounds a year ; and, instead, he was discharged. We asked the
employer why this was done, and was given this reply :
"
He
had been with us seven years. Our manager suggested to him
that, as he had to meet many people, he should have his teeth
looked after, and he told the manager that he had not employed
a dentist at any time in his life and he did not intend to begin
now. So we let him go. Since he has gone the air in the office
is not as foul as when he was here." It is a fact that one person
with ulcerated or decayed teeth can send out into the air of
a large room a very offensive odour.
Hence it is easy to see why ambitious persons will fail in life,
even if capable and efficient. Another employer said :
"
There
always comes the time when one or more of our employees
may rise in their positions, and one or more may be dismissed.
Personal habits or neglect have much to do with promotion
and demotion."
The tonsils, when decayed, generally discharge pus in small
drops from their pores. This pus, although very small, contains
billions of bacteria, which spread rapidly as they enter the
circulation of the blood. In the
"
flirtation parties
"
it is
estimated that practically every one taking part in them has
pus oozing from the tonsils ;
and this pus works its way to the
lips and is transferred to the co-kissers ;
but in eating food or
in drinking water or other liquid, the pus mixes with it and
enters the stomach. Congestion in the stomach is fertile soil
for germs and poisonous bacteria, and the rapidly spreading
cases of ulcerated stomachs will be the result.
Under such conditions magnetism is impossible.
Personal neglect is always unmagnetic, even if it did not lead
to disease and loss of vitality.
Any influence that tends to bring genuine success is an aid
to magnetism ;
and it is a fact the odour of a bad breath is
sending more men and women into the ranks of failure than
any other unpleasant habit. The people who can help them,
avoid them as much as possible.
LESSON THIRTY-TWO
WANTON LOSSES OF VITALITY
HABITS
GOOD AND BAD play an important part
in making or ruining vitality. One person keeps
himself at the point of exhaustion in certain indis-
cretions, and goes through life an under-dog ;
he never
chooses to save his energy, and so blames the world
because it owes him a living, and does not give it to him. There
are men and women who are careless and defiantly negligent of
their health, in the conceit that they are hardy and can endure
any exposure. Here is a fine young man being buried who went
out the other day in a chilling rain with no protection against
outdoor conditions ;
he plunged from a warm house, without
overcoat, and in three hours was brought back home suffering
from chills which developed into pneumonia. Obstinacy is
the exact opposite of mental magnetism. Most of the bad
judgment in the world is due to obstinacy ;
and a large
proportion of deaths are the result of this defect of the brain.
Here is a woman who is clad in her indoor clothing standing
at the outer door, saying a long and oft-repeated good-bye to a
lady friend who is dressed for the chilling blasts and who does
not mind standing there indefinitely. She lacks the judgment
to leave promptly ;
and the woman whom she is saying good-
bye to does not like to hurt her feelings ;
so she contracts fatal
pneumonia, and hurts the feelings of husband and family.
Any exposure that will end in death will surely weaken the
energy when it does not kill.
Wet Clothing. Electricity, which is the basis of magnetism ,
is just the same in a human body as it is in a storage battery or
along a wire. Dampness is a good conductor, and will lead it
away from its centres. When the clothing is wet, the body drops
many degrees in vitality, as most persons find out when it is
too late. The same is true of damp or wet shoes. The same is
184
WANTON LOSSES OF VITALITY 185
true if you sit on the ground, or stand in damp places, or in
any way connect the warm skin with the great fund of outer
moisture by carelessness.
Thin Shoes. We had intended to omit this enemy, because
there is such opposition everywhere to the wearing of heavy
shoes. But the fact may as well be stated that thin shoes bring
the vital nerves of the feet so close to the ground that dangers
ensue from wearing them. One of the severest critics of a
prominent statesman spoke of his shoes and boots as being
heavy enough for a giant. Bonaparte made it a point to buy
the heaviest shoes for the feet of his soldiers, as he found it
saved them the disorders that arise from marching too much in
damp places. His soldiers were less stricken with bowel
troubles than any armies ever known. In the Great War
thousands of men died of bowel weakness. Sickness kills twice
as many men as the shots of the enemy.
Standing on cold ground, or damp ground, or walking on wet
or even damp ground, with thin shoes is one of the surest means
of getting the body out of order, to say nothing of the loss of
vitality that affects the generation of magnetism. This fact has
been verified by a large number of experiments, and cannot be
challenged.
Excitants of Appetite. No greater mistake can be made than
th'at of exciting or tempting the appetite with something that is
abnormal. Nature furnishes excitants that are wholly within
reason, but man seeks to improve on her efforts by perverted
creations, such as spices, rich
gravies, condiments, pastry, and
almost anything that may be craved by abnormal tastes.
Much that grows in the lap of earth is poison. The products
that are safe to take into the system are very few, compared
with those that are death-dealing or poisonous. Therefore the
fact that Nature produces them is not proof that she produces
them for the human family.
The test of value is found in an analysis of the body itself. A
certain number of chemical elements are required and their
combinations are known to a certainty. Anything else is foreign
and therefore an injury.
In many hotels gravy is bought from gravy manufacturers,
who produce it by the hundreds of barrels. Analysis shows that
it is not suited to the human body. This is but one of hundreds
186 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
of things that people are compelled to eat who live away from
their own firesides. The art of seasoning, flavouring and
enriching worthless foods is now such an exact science that the
expert chef, who does not want his employer to look into the
kitchen, can take the carcass of a cow that died of tuberculosis,
allow it to become badly tainted with decay, as was proved
in a recent number of cases, then cook it so as to conceal the
taste, dress it with gravies, and pass it before the banquet board
as a delicious viand.
Most people eat too much. This being true, the safer way
is to eat onljTthe foods that are known and recognized, and
discard all others. We know that it is unpopular to teach
plainness of diet, but we feel warranted in saying that vitality
and magnetic energy are weakened by rich foods, and by the
tempters of a false relish. The nearer we can come to plain
eating, and not much of that, the greater will be the powers of
life.
Indigestion. It is hardly necessary to speak of this fault,
after all that has been said. But it is a fault, rather than a
malady, just as a headache or toothache is a fault. What can
be prevented or removed cannot be termed a malady. Indiges-
tion is either blind or acute. The latter is felt after eating,
and may abideTor hours or days. Blind indigestion is not
felt at the stomach, and leads persons who eat harmful foods
to exclaim that they agree with them, for no unpleasant results
are felt at the stomach. They do not take into consideration the
rolling of the intestines, the weakness at the heart, the yellow
bile in the face, and the bad breath ;
so they go on eating the
things that keep the vitality low.
As all life, both magnetic and physical, comes from the
nutrition that makes the body and its parts, the first great
battle at this stage of the course is to fight down and entirely
remove all traces of indigestion, both acute and blind.
Carbon that has been turned into a poison by a chemical
action is found in all conditions and almost everywhere. Its
presence in the breath that passes from the lungs is easily
detected, for it will extinguish burning carbon, and where
carbon will not burn life cannot exist. It is also present in all
newly made bread, cake, and most of the eatables that are fresh
from the oven. It is the essential power in making dough rise.
WANTON LOSSES OF VITALITY 187
It is found in all soda-water ;
and there is no drink so vicious as
that which contains gas of carbon. It is found in all charged
waters of every kind. It is the sparkle. Champagne is based
almost wholly upon carbon gas for its quality. Wine, beer,
cider, soft drinks, and all ferment are filled with this poison.
It is liked because it has the bite, the snap, the sparkle, and
much of the scrape that throats long for. One of its great offices
in sickness is to cleanse down the stomach after the mucus of
an outraged gastric juice has been collected there, clogging it
to excess. The gaseous fluid cleanses it, just as a file will clean
the teeth, or sandpaper will remove dirt from the face. Many
doctors recommend plain soda, or other form of carbon gas ;
and
what wonder is it that nearly every person who has taken it
has had agendicitis ? The latter malady is so much on the
increase to-day that it may be called the forthcoming epidemic
of civilisation. It is due to the loss of the fine surface membrane
of the intestines, which opens the way to the vermiform ;
and
this is the first result of too much carbon gas.
Neuritis is also becoming epidemic. It is due to the taking
into the stomach of elements that are not assimilated by the
system, because they are not food elements. More things that
are not foods are eaten to-day than those that are foods. Yet
they pass as foods, and are found on every menu and in most
homes. These tax the vitality because they not only dojiot
furnish nutrition to support it, but require a great and wasteful
expenditure of power to dispose of them and get them out of the
body.
Sickish Diet. This does not mean sickening diet, but it is
intended to include diet that gives mere pleasure and no
strength. It costs a large fund of vitality each day to digest and |
throw out of the system the excess of food that is generally
taken ;
and when this excess is of the sickish kind, there can
be no energy to be added to the storehouse of magnetism.
The plainer the food, the greater is the energy and the vitality
of the body. It is, however, a hard doctrine to preach, for there
is a universal craving for carbon in one form or another. Some
like their carbon in the shape of sweets, some like it in cake,
dessert, puddings, pies, doughnuts, fats, butter, cream or alcohol.
The last named is almost pure carbon. When a person likes
alcohol, there is less liking for sugars and fats, for the result
188 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
would be disease. One form of carbon is interchangeable into
another. Sugars everywhere make alcohol. Starches every-
where make alcohol. Starches make sugar. Rich gravies, ice-
creams, butter, cakes, sweets, and all the things that please the
palate, are carbons, and their own element could have passed
easily into alcohol.
The child is born with a craving for carbon, and the mother's
milk is therefore much sweeter in sugar than the milk of the
cow whose young is destined to eat hay and grain. The human
craving increases as years are unfolded, and no parent can ignore
the demand of Nature. The absence of carbon means the
absence of magnetism ;
while the excess of it means the burning
out of the fires. Nothing will burn that is not carbon. This
craving allows the palate to pass on to the stomach almost
anything that has carbon in it, and the result is the eating
of much that is sickish in its nature, such as cakes, pastry, ice-
cream, new bread, gravies, patties, crisp fried and baked foods
and many things that tax the energy of the nervous system in
the effort to drive it out of the body.
We were at one time invited to sit upon the platform in a
great hall where one of the most magnetic speakers of his times
was to make an important address. He was a man who was
known to possess what is called natural personal magnetism ;
having come by it through habits of life that tend to develop it.
Just before he appeared for the introduction, he made the
statement that he had eaten an evening meal that contained too
many rich foods ;
his stomach was uneasy, as he put it. A
sickish taste was in his mouth. Eructations of gas troubled
him. He said,
"
I generally eat sparingly before speaking to
the public, and only the plainest foods. Now, to oblige a very
kind hostess, I am not feeling as well as I should."
The speech was a failure ;
he did not evince any magnetism ;
and he made the apology to the audience that he came there
in poor health. Magnetism requires a sensible diet.
LESSON THIRTY-THREE
ARTIFICIAL MAGNETISM
THE
WANTON LOSSES OF VITALITY that were
discussed in the preceding lesson were those that
related to physical losses. There is another class
that may be called hygienic, because they relate to the loss
of health, and consequently to the weakening of the sources
of magnetism.
Ice- Water. The use of ice-water if taken slowly and allowed
to warm in the mouth, a little at a time, will not do injury to
the health ;
but the pouring of a half-glass or more at one time
into the stomach will quickly decreaseJihfi^action of the heart,
check respiration, contract the stomach so that it will force
out some of its contents undigested, and lessen the magnetic
heat of the nervous system. We recall several cases where
speakers were deprived of their usual magnetic powers by
drinking ice-water just before making their addresses. One of
our students, a lawyer of national reputation, wrote the follow-
ing assertion in a letter to a friend which was forwarded to
us for criticism :
"
I have had success in my trials whenever I
have held magnetic sway over the court. I have learned that
food and drink have something to do with magnetism. I
am fond of ice-cream when I am. heated, and often partake
just before going to court in the afternoon. I have noticed
that my vitality is less and my magnetism is very much
impaired for speaking after I have taken either ice-water or ice-
cream, or any chilling food or fluid." The experience is a
common one IT care is taEenTcTwatch results.
Excess of Water. This is injurious just before an attempt to
use the magnetic powers. The best time to drink watery is when
the stomach is empty. Thirst should not invite^jreat floods of
fluid to the stomach. The more water one drinks in the course
of twenty-four hours, if taken in small quantities at a time, the
189
190 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
better will the machinery of the functions do their work. This
method of drinking prevents the stomach from carrying more
water than the blood can take up, and hence it is not harmful.
There is a widespread belief that the use of stimulants will
develop magnetism. They burn up the magnetism in the body,
and during the very brief period of this burning, they seem to
set free the power they are destroying. This is wholly artificial
and wasteful, for every reaction leaves the person weaker than
before the taking of the supposed aid.
That is a stimulant which seeks to make some foreign matter
do the work of Nature, and arouse a failing power or bring to life
a dead vitality. Tea, coffee, alcohol, and the many concoctions
that are sold as hot winter drinks or cold summer beverages,
are indulged in, with the result that the fires of magnetism are
burned out. There is much discussion on both sides of the
question, some persons claiming that stimulants are necessary.
The author can speak of his own experience, and say that he
has never used tobacco, tea, coffee, alcohol, or stimulant of any
kind since he was born. He can also speak with authority of
many persons who have held magnetic sway for decades, and
who have not used any of the things named.
A very important law of life comes into play in this attempt
to substitute the artificial for the natural, and it is this :
Nature will not carry on the process of generating vitality,
energy or magnetism while some foreign agency is employed as
a substitute for that purpose.
The same law is seen at work in the supply of natural heat.
The warmer the room in which you live, the less heat will be
generated in the body ;
the colder the outside conditions, the
warmer will the surface of the body become. If you toast your
feet, as the saying goes, over a grate, or at a stove, or supply
artificial heat, Nature will not develop as much natural heat
within the body. In a person of normal health, the best way to
get the feet warm is to bathe them in cold water, wipe them
very dry, then bathe the upper part of the chest in cold water.
The feet will be in a glow in a short time, and will remain warm.
The quickest way to get confirmed cold feet is to form the habit
of warming them at some stove or heater that furnishes artificial
warmth.
This law runs through everything.
ARTIFICIAL MAGNETISM 191
In the study of magnetism, no greater mistake can ever be
made than to seek power through stimulants ;
for the best
stimulant can do nothing more than burn up in a more rapid
manner what power is already on hand. Some speakers get so
far down in vitality that they can do nothing until they take
whisky or other stimulant ;
but their fires are soon burned out,
as has been proved in hundreds of well-known cases. The
magnetic speaker or actor needs no fluid in the mouth from the
time he begins until he is done. The few exceptions to this rule
are in cases where careers of usefulness are on the wane. Two
generations and more ago the three most magnetic men alive
were Daniel Webster, Rufus Choate and Junius Booth. Not one
ever used water or fluid of any kind during a J>ublic effort ;
there was no pitcher and glass on the stand to supply them with
moisture. All three were great because of their excess of mag-
netic vitality, and all three have left names that will live for
ages. Yet Webster and Booth, in later life only, were victims of
the alcohol habit ;
but not one of them made any fame during
that period. Booth had achieved all he was capable of during
his years of ambition, when he wholly ignored wines and liquors,
as his son, Edwin, has so well stated. Success turned his head,
and his career was erratic and downward. Yet he was not a
drunkard.
Webster was not a drinking man during the years that he
climbed to the pinnacle of success. He was afraid to touch any
beverage that was not clear, cool water. Success and acceptance
of social attentions dethroned him ;
and in the latter years of 1
his life, when his work was done, although he was only in the
early sixties, he stood before the public
"
a failure in every
department of life," as one of his greatest friends has declared
in a printed work ;
and he was later on described as a magnifi-
cent ruin.
Magnetism brings success. Success brings social attentions.
Rufus Choate was a man of the highest morality in personal
habits. He had but one love, and that was triumph in his
profession. He worked himself into a state of nervous collapse,
and then became an excessive tea drinker. But his work had
been accomplished long before he took up this habit. The tea
broke down his health. He ignored all laws of diet and soon
his stomach was a wreck. Death came to him while yet in the
192 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
prime of active life. Many young men have been misled by
the statement, so often made, that Choate's magnetism was the
result of his tea-drinking habit ;
and we know of men who
have sought the power by the use of this beverage, and have
wondered why it failed them.
In our efforts to ascertain the facts, for facts are very
important in this study, we at first were led to believe that
Choate built up his magnetism by tea. Many experiments with
scores of men proved that no one else could do the same thing.
We left no stone unturned to get at the true origin of the story
that has so often been printed to the effect that he was an
inveterate tea drinker all his life, and we found no proof of that ;
nor did his historian have any proof of it except the well-known
fact that he drank tea to excess in the latter part of his life ;
and only when his health had begun to fail did his friends and
relatives know of the habit. His favourite beverage in the
first forty years of his life was water.
No grander example of magnetism was ever seen than that
displayed by John B. Gough, who was personally known to
us for many years After ne had discarded his early alcoholic
habits, his power developed, and not before. For all Ms years of
public triumph he used chiefly cold water as a beverage. One
man who had attended him on his tours for eight months stated
in the most positive terms : "I have not missed a meal during
all this time, having been at the table with Mr. Gough day in
and day out, three times a day, and having partaken of his
lunches when the regular meals were not to be had. We were
companions in eating. I personally know that no fluid passed
his lips except cold water. He had used coffee and tea, as he
told me, but only in small quantities. During the severe tax of
a prolonged lecture tour he depended solely on cold water. I am
told that, later in life, he used both coffee and tea in moderation,
but not when his health was at its best. Plain food and cold
water jgave him his best powers." Gough once made the
assertion that he could geFafong on a diet of bread and water
and yet maintain his public work.
LESSON THIRTY-FOUR
THE MAGNETISM OF HEALTH
MANY
PEOPLE LIVE TO EAT and there are some
who eat to live. Several principles are involved in
the matter of eating. Dieting is the employing of
that restricted line of foods that are necessary in order to
cease irritating the body so that Nature may get a chance
to repair the injury that has been done by improper foods.
While many maladies are set in motion at the begin-
ning by attacks by bacteria, it is well known that no
bacteria will be able to secure a hold in the system until
improper foods have prepared the soil for them to feed upon.
No infectious or contagious diseases can get a start until
improper foods have preceded them. Even inherited taints and
maladies will be held dormant and will never appear until the
blood has been poisoned by improper foods.
This then brings us to the consideration of what are and what
are not proper foods.
Our reason for discussing this subject here is that magnetism
cannot be generated to any appreciable degree in any body that
is subjected to the irritation set up by congestion of any organ
or membrane. Nothing so quickly saps the vitality as irritation.
It is a form of torment ; and the soil that invites bacterial
diseases is the one great cause of irritation. Being derived from
the use of improper foods, our present study must deal with
them.
The husband whose digestive system has been subjected to
the torments of badly cooked or wrongly selected food, and
whose nerves are wild with the suppressed agony of blind
indigestion, cannot exhibit for his wife that fondness and
affection that is expected of him when in normal condition.
Nor could he exercise the power of magnetism over any one.
We were told by a man of unusual magnetic power that when
13 I
194 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
he called on his sweetheart to propose to her, an undigested
dinner was crying for relief, and his stomach was filled with a
thousand little devils all shrieking with pain, due to his indis-
cretion in eating, and his efforts to win the approval of
his lady-love were a dismal failure. The conversation was as
follows, as reported by the lady and confirmed by the man :
He (taking her hand). I have something to say to you this
evening that I have been wanting to say for a long time. Can
you guess what it is ?
She (demure). I am sure I do not know what you mean.
He (placing one hand over his heart ;
but the hand slips down
to his stomach). I have a feeling for you here.
She (watching his hand). Where ?
He. Here. Where else should it be ?
She. Are you ill ?
He. No. What is the matter with you. Are you nervous ?
I am trying to tell you how much I love you.
She. But you are so restless that you annoy me. I have
never seen you this way before.
He. I am in pain. I thought it was a heart pain, but it must
be that darned dinner I ate. My stomach is full of dancing
devils.
She. I do not like your language. You would have sworn if
I had not been here. Now is it not true that if I were out of
hearing you would swear with your indigestion ? Tell me the
truth.
He. You bet I would.
She. And if we were married would you not swear before
me under the same circumstances ? Do not conceal the
truth.
He. A man who is being tortured as I am would not be half
a man if he were not capable of swearing. I am a whole man
when it comes to indigestion. Will you marry me ?
She. ;Why should I ? You are not attractive when you do
not swear, and you would be less than attractive when you
compelled me to listen to your profanity. If we are not married
to each other, I can dismiss you when I wish, which I could not
do after marriage.
He. You then refuse me ? Do you dismiss me ?
She. I think it best that you go at once and see a doctor.
THE MAGNETISM OF HEALTH 195
In this case all semblance of personal magnetism had been
lost in the pain of indigestion.
The cause was improper food.
The rule of proper food is this :
Eat only the elements of Nature that are required to build
the body and all its life, both nervous and mental. Any food
that contains elements not required by the body and its life
is foreign to it ;
hence is a poison, and sets up intestinal
poisoning.
The rule of the proper preparation of food is this :
It should be eaten in a state that retains its elements in their
actual value ;
and no process of cooking should change such
condition or value.
DIGESTION takes place as follows :
Fortj^per cent of all digestion occurs at the stomach ;
and
sixty" per cent of all digestion occurs below the stomach,
including the intestinal canal.
Active indigestion takes place in the stomach. Acute
indigestion is a dangerous form and may cause the heart to stop
beating. More than one hundred thousand people die every
year from acute indigestion ;
but the lesser form known as
active indigestion is almost always curable, although very
exhausting and weakening. Blind indigestion occurs after the
food has left the stomach, and lasts much longer than the active
form. It is not painful but sets up a state of restlessness,
nervousness and irritability ;
but because it is not painful, the
condition is misunderstood by people who, when not feeling
distress at the stomach, come to believe that they can eat
anything with impunity.
"
Nothing I eat ever hurts me,"
says the man or woman who is highly nervous and irritable.
They will not tell the truth.
Not one person in a thousand, except doctors, knows that
sixty per cent of the nutritive value of food is extracted from it
by the process of intestinal digestion. Yet it is a matter of
common knowledge that, when a person's stomach will not
receive food, the nutrition is given in the form of injections at
the lower end of the intestinal canal. Life has been supported
in thousands of cases by this method of feeding. Any food or
liquid having an odour that is so injected soon comes to the
breath ;
as when onion juice or peppermint water, or some other
196 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
thing is forced into the colon ; showing that the contents of the
intestines enter the circulation and are carried to all the organs,
as well as to the brain, and even to the skin.
The blood is no better than the contents of the intestines.
There are two classes of foods :
1. THE PROPER FOODS. These give magnetic health.
2. THE IMPROPER FOODS. These destroy magnetic
health.
If only the proper foods are eaten, the development of vitality
and electrically charged energy is a very rapid process.
When the improper foods are eaten they produce in the blood
and in the tissue of the body, including flesh, nerves and brain,
the soil that makes disease possible, and without which soil
no disease could ever enter the body.
Improper foods also cause intestinal poisoning, and this
foulness attacks every part of the body. It is one of the causes
of rheumatism, neuralgia, and neuritis. It is the sole cause
of the catarrhs that infest the membranes, especially the
catarrh of the nose and throat which repels many a friend and
defeats many an effort to win the respect of others. No person
wishes to fall in love with a catarrhal individual ;
for the mucus
and phlegm are not only infectious but have an offensive odour.
If there were no intestinal poisoning, there would be no catarrh ;
and if there were no improper foods eaten, there would be no
intestinal poisoning.
A familiar affliction that is due solely to intestinal poisoning
is the collection of^dandruff in the scalp, and also scalp disease.
There has never yet been discovered a remedy for these troubles
until the source was discovered, and it was found to be
the contents of the intestines flowing into the blood. Skin
maladies also have their origin here. All these defects stand
in the way of success through magnetism ;
as falling dandruff,
sore scalp and blotched faces all repel friends and followers.
Another affliction that repels friends and associates is that
known as BODY ODOUR. Both sexes suffer from it. We have
met daily for weeks and months women and girls who were
employed as clerks, who were troubled with arm-pit odour. We
have known society women of the highest refinement who have
applied to us for a remedy for the latter offence. They had
tried all the advertised cures, but with no success whatever.
THE MAGNETISM OF HEALTH 19?
Painting the skin under the arm-pits with a semi-varnish
stopped the pores and nearly caused cancerous growth, but
was stopped by advice of physicians.
There exists but one/emedy.
It is to prevent the poisons from the foul contents of the
intestines entering the circulation of the blood, and thereby
coming to the arm-pits.
In hundreds of cases this remedy succeeded, and has never
failed in any instance. By choosing proper foods the blood is
cleaned, and the circulation is sweet and free from all odour.
The skin becomes fair, pure and of fine texture. This shows
in the face, and quickly relieves women and girls from the
necessity of heavy painting. Very recently a man who believed
more in natural than in artificial beauty and colouring, and
who knew that what is called love is not so permanent a quality
as respect, abiding admiration and deep appreciation, resolved
to choose a wife from among more than two-score lady friends,
and devoted himself to the study of the face and its natural
health and colouring, discarding those faces that were sub-
merged beneath coats of paint through which he could not see
the texture of the skin. He succeeded, and is now happily
married. Natural colouring that indicates fine health is
attractive.
The teachings of this and similar lessons refer to those
aids to magnetism that serve to attract instead of repelling
people. It cannot be denied that, in spite of these personal
disadvantages which we are discussing, there are men and
women who are magnetic because of the possession of accumu-
lated nerve fire driving forth ideas from a fertile brain, and
stirring into action many thousands of followers by this direct
power. But close association with persons whose bodily
conditions are offensive serves to ostracise in time the people
who would otherwise have been greatly admired and respected.
Nor does mere health bring the power of controlling others.
To be useful in this way it must be actually charged with those
inherent forces that we are teaching in this system. Like all
attractive qualities it is a splendid help to magnetic supremacy.
LESSON THIRTY-FIVE
FOODS THAT ARE MAGNETIC
EVERYTHING
THAT IS CALLED FOOD appears
in one way or another and in one place or another
in the experiences of humanity ;
but it may surprise
most readers to know that a majority of the things eaten
are not even food but merely furnish the soil that invites
disease, and more than this, they furnish repellent con-
ditions that cause people to lose their best friends at times
and to lessen their influence in every walk in life. When man
came on earth he had no one to tell him what to eat and what
not to eat ;
nor had he the experience of his predecessors in
testing out the value or danger contained in the things that were
found growing about him. He had to try them for himself. If
he survived they might be safe. If he died, some one of his
family might have learned why. If he lived and suffered, he
might have guessed what hurt him. It took time to learn all
about foods, and the time has not yet expired. In the next
lesson you wiH see what has yet to be learned in this line of
experience.
In the preceding lesson you will find the great truths that
arise concerning food selection ;
and the damage that is done
to health, influence and life by the use of improper foods ; and
we advise you to re-read that lesson as you have the book open
close to it now. It tells you vital things of the greatest
importance. In the present lesson we intend to furnish a list of
*ke foods that are proper and that establish magnetic health,
at the same time overcoming the extremely disagreeable
conditions that may make a person repellent instead of
attractive.
The following list contains foods from which you may select
what you prefer. It is not necessary to use them all or even a
half or a third of them if you do not care for them. What will
198
FOODS THAT ARE MAGNETIC 199
appeal to one person will not be liked by another. The list is
large enough to admit of selection and choice. Some persons
use but few things in their dietary ; we do not expect any one
person to use all we hereby mention.
THE MAGNETIC FOODS
1. ALMONDS as a nutritious dessert ;
and ALMOKD COFFEE.
This is the king of nuts, and the best of all nut foods. It
is rich in several of the special elements that are difficult to
find in other foods. But almonds are never beneficial unless
they are chewed into a fine meal ;
or else so ground before being
eaten. The habit of chewing roasted and salted almonds after
a meal is the best of all aids to digestion, the making of pure
blood, and the bringing of a fine complexion into the face and
clear vision to the eyes ; providing other Proper Foods are
eaten at the meal. No other nut can approach the almond in
these qualities.
ALMOND COFFEE is used in place of the ordinary coffee.
It is made from almonds that have been roasted to a dark
brown, then ground in a coffee mill such as is found in all homes.
After grinding, they should be pounded in a mortar or on a
board into a fine meal. They are taken in a cup of hot milk.
The heating of milk pasteurises it, and if it is allowed to get
cold it loses its vitamins ; for which reason pasteurised milk
is not beneficial compared with raw milk. Re-heating pasteur-
ised milk will not restore the vitamins. But heating raw milk!
to any temperature and using it while hot or very warm
will not lose these qualities. Therefore in almond coffee,
raw milk should be heated as hot as coffee usually is when
served, and enough of the almond meal put in it as may suit
the taste of the person. It should be well stirred not only when
put in the milk, but re-stirred in drinking it, so that the meal
may be thoroughly mixed with the milk. It is a deliciously
nourishing drink, with no bad qualities and plenty of good ones,
2. APPLES. These should be sweet or mild, and should be
perfectly mellow before cooking. They are best baked and
eaten with cream or milk, and sweetened if desired. Apples
should not be eaten on an empty stomach, and are best as a
dessert.
200 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
3. ARROWROOT well cooked. A side dish only.
4. ARTICHOKE. A vegetable of light nutrition.
5. ASPARAGUS. This is an ideal vegetable either in seaso
or canned.
6. BARLEY. This is best used in the small form, called peai
barley, and is most readily suited as one of the ingredients c
soups or stews.
7. BEEF. This meat if desired is the most, niitritious of a
foods of the animal kingdom. It should be cooked slight!
underdone ;
and is to be preferred roasted. Tough beef is nc
very beneficial. Steer meat is, of course, the best of all. Bee
broth, beef juice, and raw scraped beef spread on hot toas
and well salted, make good foods.
8. BEETROOT. These should be young. They can be bough
at almost any vegetable market, and the smaller sizes ar
lower in price and make better food. If so bought or raise
in the home garden they should be canned for winter an
eaten freely.
9. BREAD that is not new. All hot white flour products ar
harmful, and so is fresh bread.
10. BUTTERMILK. This is a medical food, which means tha
it is not only nutritious but has a decidedly curative value. 1
makes new blood quickly and helps to repair diseased organ*
But it is a mistake to drink it. The best way is to sip
it slow!
alternating with other foods.
11. BUTTERED TOAST. Old bread should be toasted an
when hot should be buttered, and eaten before it gets cold.
12. CAKE. If plain and not rich, any cake may be eaten a
any meal.
13. CAPON.
14. CARROTS.
15. CELERY. This may be eaten raw with salt, or cooked i
any form. It is also used raw in salads. As a purde it make
a valuable evening first course.
16. CHERRIES. These should be perfectly ripe, mellow an
sweet. Avoid the small ones that are coloured red with coal-te
dyes.
17. CHESTNUTS cut partly open and boiled or roasted,
18. CHICKEN.
19. CHIC&EN BROTH,
FOODS THAT ARE MAGNETIC 201
20. CARP.
21. CLEAR SOUP, or bouillon.
* 22. COCOA, if pure ;
or cocoa shells.
23. CODFISH, fresh. Avoid all other forms of this article.
24. CORN, green in season.
25. MEAL.
26. CRACKERS of the bready kind.
27. CREAM.
28. CREAM CHEESE if made at home.
29. DATES. These are the most valuable of all the food-
fruits. They can be eaten in any form ;
but cut up in milk
they are very beneficial as a part or all of a breakfast.
30. DOUBLE-BAKED BREAD ; meaning old bread that has been
sliced and again baked in an oven, and laid away for use.
Broken in milk, or toasted and buttered, it is wholesome.
31. EGGS. These may be taken raw or lightly cooked, or
boiled two hours, and eaten with butter and salt. If not boiled
two hours, they should be merely made hot in the water, or
what is called soft-boiled. The two hours of cooking alters
their character and renders them digestible and highly nutri-
tious. Never eat them fried.
32. FIGS.
33. FLOUR from whole wheat. Remove the coarse bran by
a sieve ;
and use three times as much yeast if bread is to be
made, as for white flour. It is best served as a boiled pudding
or mush.
34. HADDOCK, fresh.
35. HALIBUT, fresh.
36. HERRING, fresh.
37. HOMINY. This should be long cooked. It is a better
food than white flour, which causes constipation.
38. JUNKET ;
a light food for weak stomachs.
39. LAMB ;
if young and not cooked to a hard, dry mass.
40. LENTILS.
41. LETTUCE. This exceedingly valuable vegetable may be
eaten raw, and in this state it may be made a part of a salad.
Or it may be cooked, and in a purde makes a splendid first
course for an evening meal.
42. MACARONI, or spaghetti, or the like,
43. MACKEREL, fresh,
202 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
44. MILK. The best form is in the raw state when handled
cleanly. Pasteurising takes away much of its value. Certified
raw milk is merely a notice to the public that unclean farmers
and milkers have been watched some of the time. Pasteurised
milk is notice that dirty milk, or possibly dirty milk, has been
cooked to cover up the dangers coming from dirty milking. As
milk is the basic food of all peoples of all times and ages, a
public official should be appointed in each community to see
that this, the most vital need of life, should be made safe and
avoid an excess of cost for cleanliness that takes more money
out of the people than the Income Tax
It should be understood that pasteurising does no harm if
the heat can be retained, or the milk when hot sealed up in
proper containers. But when it becomes cold in the air the
vitamins are lost. If you heat raw milk remember to use it
before it gets cold, either at the table, or mix it in some in-
gredient like a pudding, which will prevent loss of vitamins.
45. MILK TOAST. Or cream toast.
46. Moss, Irish, Iceland or any sea moss. It is a light
food.
47. OATMEAL. This should be cooked three hours, or better
still all night in a fireless cooker.
48. OLIVES ;
not when ripe.
49. ONIONS. These should be eaten boiled, never raw or
fried.
50. OYSTERS ; always cooked, preferably in stew, or fancy
roast, or steamed, or scalloped ;
never raw, nor fried.
51. PARSNIPS.
52. PEAS. These are good food in season, and also tinned.
53. PIGEON, young.
54. POTATOES, white. The best way to prepare white
potatoes is to bake them ;
next to boil them. They are good
scalloped, or sliced and cooked in a pan with milk. Avoid fried
potatoes. Chips have caused many deaths from indigestion.
Very new white potatoes are indigestible, as their starch cells
have not been developed. Old waxy potatoes are injurious,
as are those with green on the skin.
55. RAISINS. Use the seeded kind in preference to the seed-
less, and avoid dried currants. Seeded raisins are very
nutritious.
FOODS THAT ARE MAGNETIC 203
56. RICE. Get the unpolished kind which is for sale every-
where.
57. RYE.
58. SAGO.
59. SOLE, or any good fresh fish.
60. jjpiNAOH in milk, cream or butter dressing.
61. SQUASH, or pumpEin.
~
62. SWEETS. White or brown sugar is essential to the health.
|,
Maple sugar is not so good, but may be used. Honey is the! I
best of all sweets. Molasses is very useful and very nutritious, I
'
besides containing valuable salts, which are also in brown'
sugar. The juice of cornstalks will not digest, but passes
through the system unaltered. Bought sweets are not always
safe, and must be excluded from this list.
63. TAPIOCA.
64. TOMATOES. These contain malic acid, citric acid, and
some of them a small amount of oxalic acid. But if used
sparingly, as in purges, they may not do harm to a system that is
not afflicted with rheumatism, neuralgia, neuritis, or headaches.
65. TBOCTT.
66. TURBOT, or any good fresh fish.
67. TURKEY, if not too expensive.
68. VEAL. This meat is a poison to some persons, due to
its being too young. From a calf six months old it is safe ;
and
the older the calf the better is this meat as a source of nutrition.
69. VEGETABLES. These may include almost everything
that is raised, if not cooked by frying. Lettuce and^ spinach
lead in value as food and for vitamins. Cabbage, turnips,
parsnips, carrots, celery, beets, green peas fresh or tinned,
green beans fresh or tinned, limas, string beans, and others are
good food. But avoid radishes and cucumbers, as both set
up intestinal indigestion and poisoning, and hold a large
mortality list.
70. VERMICELLI.
LESSON THIRTY-SIX
FOODS THAT DESTROY MAGNETISM
KNOWLEDGE
OF THE VALUE or non-value of the
things that enter the human system has come from
the experience of the past, from sickness and death
that have followed, and from analysis of their contents.
No thinking person can get away from the conclusion that,
when it is known that the body requires about fourteen to
sixteen elements in about seventeen chemical combinations, the
daily use of double that number in about eighty chemical
combinations is the actual cause of the sickness in the world,
and of the suffering and premature deaths that fall to the lot of
misguided human beings. Here are the latest facts :
1. Inherited disease and blood taint remain dormant in the
body until improper foods excite them into action.
2. All organic maladies are impossible until improper foods
poison the blood.
3. All bacterial diseases are impossible until improper
foods furnish the soil in which they live and on which they
thrive.
4. Improper foods cannot be digested, and therefore their
poisons generate the intestinal foulness that is a prolific cause
of neuritis, neuralgia, rheumatism, headaches, bad breath,
heart-disease, kidney disease, blood pressure, all catarrhs, body
odours, and deranged mental and moral natures.
~~~*
Experiments made by governments and various hospitals and
other institutions for the purpose of discovering the causes of
crime, insanity, and moral taint, have traced one line of causes
directly from intestinal poisoning arising from improper foods
and drinks. In fact some cases of insanity have been cured by
changing the diet ;
and there are other cases where the criminal
nature has been overcome by diet alone.
Irritability is the most potent foe of magnetism ;
and there
304
FOODS THAT DESTROY MAGNETISM 205
is no form of irritability so acute as that which arises from
intestinal poisoning.
This poisoning sets up a malady that doctors say now prevails
among 990 persons in every 1000 ;
that of congestion of the
stomach and of the membranes. This results in irritability and
loss of magnetism. The brain is surrounded by three membranes
in layers which control all the thinking processes, all the moral
standards and activities, and all the criminal instincts. These
membranes become quickly congested following the use of
improper foods, for the blood that supplies the brain with the
fluids required in all thinking activities, is loaded with intestinal
poisons, and we cannot expect accurate thinking, good judg-
ment, high moral standards and obedience to law from a flow of
blood that is charged to the limit with the foulness of the
intestines. Here we find the explanation for the lack of common
sense that incites men and women, and to-day even girls and
boys, to become carousers, drinkers, law-breakers, libertines and
abject fools by the millions, indecent in talk and conduct,
flippantly boastful of their disrespect for all that is right and
noble, defiant of correction or disapproval, sneering at home,
love and life, scoffing at parents and religion, and dancing
attendance on every devil pleasure as the only influence in life
worth following. Their blood, brain and moral nature are fed
by poisons. When you see a person who is willingly and
boastfully breaking the law of the land ;
who is indulging in
night frivolities at the expense of health and decency ;
who is
ready to slap in the face the mother who gave her best years
in caring for her family ;
who thinks, talks and dreams in terms
of lasciviousness born of nasty methods of dancing, who guzzles
beer until the eyes are bloodshot and the head reeling, you
are witnessing the natural and logical effects of a perverted
nature that comes from blood saturated with intestinal poisons.
The proper foods properly prepared and cooked, perform
their mission in the body, and develop no foulness whatever
in the intestines. While more than half of thejgutrition that
sustains life must come from intestinal digestion^ it is all
cleanly and pure under the foregoing circumstances. This is
due to the fact that the body requires only fourteen or fifteen
elements, and when these are supplied, the demands of life
are met ;
but if you send down into the system a mass of
206 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
things that the body cannot use in its maintenance they cannot
be assimilated, and must be made war upon, fought out and
eliminated ;
all of which takes vitality away from the other
functions of the body.
In other words, if you omit the improper foods you will have
pure blood and will become immune against disease, suffering,
irritability and the losses to magnetic power that attend these
afflictions ;
and you will add other advantages that are of still
higher value than any of these blessings.
THE NON-MAGNETIC FOODS ARE
presented here in alphabetical order ;
and it must be remem-
bered that some are totally foreign to the needs of the body ;
others are partly so ;
and others directly poisonous in a form
that slowly and insidiously undermines the health, bringing on
those hidden diseases that do not give warning until it is too late.
There are also included some proper foods that are ruined or
partly so by bad methods of cooking. In the following list
will be found a few things that readily change into poisons
in the body, that otherwise would be nutritious.
1. BACON. This is recommended by doctors because of its
carbon ;
but it does a vast amount of injury in spite of that fact.
2. BAKED BEANS. For a labourer with iron-clad digestive
powers this may furnish a stand-by for hours after being eaten ;
but for the purposes of this study, it is a wrong food.
3. BEANS, dried.
4. BREAD, new.
5. BISCUIT, new or hot ;
and hot or new rolls.
6. CABBAGE that is old and fibrous. New, young and tender
cabbage is the opposite of the old and tough kind.
7. CAKES that are rich, or that contain spices, citron or dried
currants.
8. SWEETS not home made. Some shop-bought sweets are
harmful, being made partly of bad grease, imitation sugar, coal-
tar dyes for colouring, and in many instances of impure choco-
late. There axe no doubt a number of shop-bought sweets
that ajre
wholesome.
9. CHEESE ; except home-made cream cheese.
10. CHIPS, whether potatoes or other kinds.
FOODS THAT DESTROY MAGNETISM 207
11. COFFEE. The kind that is now sold is much more
poisonous than the kind formerly obtainable. In any event it
is not a food, nor does it contain any of the elements needed
in the body. Use almond coffee instead.
12. CORN FLAKES.
13. CORN CRISPS. Or any crisps. They are not food, and
even if they were made of corn grain, they are not properly
prepared as food.
14. COCOA-NUT. This is a food in the lands where it grows,
with its milk and fresh meat ;
but in our clime it is indigestible.
15. CRANBERRIES. Here we have a much advertised article
that has no food value, and that does great injury to the blood.
16. CRISP surfaces of meat or anything else.
17. CUCUMBERS.
18. CRABS.
19. CURRANTS, dried.
20. DOUGHNUTS.
21. DRESSINGS, if rich or not simply made.
22. EGGS, fried.
23. FRIED food of any kind.
24. FISH, fried.
25. FRUIT CAKE.
26. FRUIT PUDDINGS.
27. FISH, smoked.
28. FISH, salted or pickled, dried or cured in any way.
29. GOOSE.
30. GRAVIES.
31. HAM.
32. LARD, including all substitutes.
33. MARMALADES.
34. MEATS, smoked, pickled, dried, salted or cured in any
way.
35. MINCEMEAT.
36. NUTS of the oily kinds. Almonds and chestnuts jare
the
best.
37. ONIONS, fried or raw.
38. OYSTERS, fried.
39. PASTRY, patties and the like.
40. PEAS, old.
41. PEANUTS.
208 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
42. PEANUT butter, peanut lard, etc.
43. PICKLES.
44. PIG'S FEET.
45. PEPPEBS.
46. PORK.
47. POTATOES, fried or crisp.
48. RADISHES.
49. RHUBARB.
50. RINDS of oranges, lemons, etc.
51. SAUSAGE, and all ground-meat mixtures.
52. SAUCES.
53. SHRIMPS.
54. SPICES.
55. STRAWBERRIES, gooseberries, currants and crab apples.
56. SWEETBREADS.
57. SWEET POTATOES.
58. TEA.
59. TERRAPIN, or any sea scavengers, including lobsters.
60. TURNIPS when old and fibrous.
61. VEGETABLES when old and tough.
62. VINEGAR, and all things mixed or dressed with vinegar.
63. YAMS.
64. VISCERA or entrails, sweetbreads, kidneys, brains, hearts
and hoofs including hoof-made gelatin, and gelatin made from
glue elements. These things, also tendons and muscles, appear
in sausage form, and in meat breads and meat cheeses, as well
as other mixtures, and should be avoided as the worst of
enemies as they contain the dead within the dead.
The foregoing list is formidable and will not meet the approval
of people who like the things which we discard, and who do
not like to be told what they should eat. But there is behind
this list more than forty years of experience
and test. There
is a difference between^aT3iemical test and $ living test. One
tells what a food might be, the other tells what it is from its
effect on human life. For instance, chemistry tells us that
soap fats and axle grease are rich in calories and vitamins ;
experience says they are suited to the inhabitants of the Arctic
Zone, but would kill people in our part of the world.
We are closing this part of our studies which have thus far
dealt only with the formation of HABITS.
FOODS THAT DESTROY MAGNETISM 209
The book might be ended at this place, and the pupil would
have advanced far into the development of the power which
is being taught. It requires but little impulse to set in motion
the agencies that bring to men and women a vastly increased
magnetism with all the advantages that accrue with it. But we
are going on to great achievements.
The next step will be to develop Magnetic Energy. When
this is accomplished, the finarprocessT^nb^^cquire the per-
manent use of it. While all these processes a'fe going on tfie
pupil TS"""^!wmg healthier, heartier, more manly and more
womanly in a physical sense ;
the nerves and brains are reaching
a state of vigour that can be obtained in no other way ;
and
existence at once assumes a loftier bearing suggestive of the
old-time belief that humanity has kinship with the angels.
Thus this study becomes the most important in life.
The work thus far is not difficult, nor will it consume time
or attention to the detriment of other duties. The progress
to be achieved will keep pace with the regular work and thought
of the day, and not intrude upon them. A man may take a
smile to his office or his toil, and it will accompany him in his
round of duties ; not displace them. The common query is,
how much time must be devoted to the practice of the lessons
in personal magnetism, and the answer is in the form of another
question, how much time will be required to do the same thing
correctly that you are now doing wrong, as for instance to
walk or stand with the weight on the vital part of the foot
instead of carrying it on the heel. The substitution of one way
for another does not take time ; it calls for attention at the
start.
~ ~
We therefore conclude that no extra time is to be demanded
by the lessons thus far given.
Having finished this part of our study, we are now ready
to enter into the affirmative accumulation of the fund of power
from which personal magnetism is developed. With the
enemies out of the way or reduced, the work of forging ahead
into new fields of discovery and accomplishment will be
surprisingly fast. The gradual unfolding of the latent energies
of the body and mind will be as marked and pleasing as is the
life that is founded upon power attained by inheritance or gift.
The wonderful sea or ocean of communication that surrounds
n
210 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
all human beings is worth the cost of time and effort required
to thoroughly investigate it. Its waves beat now upon your
unconscious brain : let us learn to recognize them, to interpret
them and to set our influence at sail upon their unbeaten tracks.
In so doing we shall learn what mind and soul are, what God
is, and what place each one of us occupies in tEe plan of earthly
existence.
With power of magnetism there comes a clear light that
breaks into the windowless haunts of others' minds, that shows
defects and flaws in the plans and purposes of our fellow-beings,
and gives the power and the right to uplift and ennoble the
lives that drift in weakness through a storm-tossed gulf.
While mystery and fascination both play upon the imagina-
tion, the new world of fact will resolve every grade of influence
into fixed currents of energy that obey a system of laws ordained
for tfie benefit of humanity/
We are now ready to enter the fields described.
Before doing so we must repeat what has been insisted on
many times in this study, that all exercises may be omitted
and the student of these pages will make rapid and permanent
advances into the realms of this power ;
so marked in fact that
those who know and see the reader of these lessons in daily
life will note the changes for the better in every respect.
In our former systems the greater part of the training
consisted of exercises ;
these are now retained ;
but each and
every one of them may be omitted and yet great progress will
result. But the exercises serve to bring a higher degree of
power very quickly ;
after which they merge into habits.
Both methods combined make a very fascinating study.
DEPARTMENT OF TENSION
ENERGY
LESSON THIRTY-SEVEN
PHYSICAL TENSING
HAVING
COMPLETED that part of this study that
deals exclusively with habits, wo now approach a
part that requires some attention to exercises with
the ultimate object of forming a new set of habits, and
thus leaving the work for the future as the adoption of a
method of living rather than a system of development. By so
doing we shall be able to acquire magnetism as a natural gift
and not the result of artificial attention to the causes from which
it sprung. Tension energy is found in all persons who are
magnetic and successful, whether they have been taught or
not. It is an essential part of the power, and is never absent
from its use. Therefore if we were to omit it we would leave
the student only partly provided with the means of winning
success.
Tension of the muscles is a setting of them for some great
physical effort.
As all muscular action is impelled by the nerves, it follows
that muscular tension has its origin in the nerves.
Tension energy, as the term is used in this study, relates
solely to the setting of the nerves for some great effort, not
muscular, but nervous.
In muscular tensing, which is common and necessary with
any athlete, the nerves send forth their command in one
impulse for each setting.
In tension energy, which is necessary for the expression of
the power of magnetism in any form, there is no setting of the
nerves, but an increasing flow of nervous force, beginning small
212 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
and proceeding by building on itself as it is used. This
distinction, while seemingly technical, is so important it should
be understood, and for that reason we will repeat it in another
way. Take the following description as a further example.
If you set the muscles for some great effort you tense them
all at once for the degree of effort at hand. If greater demand
is to be made on your muscular jgpwer, you set them at still
greater tension ;
but each setting is fixed for the time being.
On the other hand, if you wish to give expression to some
magnetic power instead of muscular power, you do not set the
nerves, but you start^them on the way to flow with greater
force as your magnetic uses of them grow in life and vigour.
The flow INCREASES as it takes place.
If the flow were to start at a fixed limit, it could not increase
unless more was required of it ;
in which case it would be a
series of jumps.
It is the INCREASE in vitality during any tensing progress
that generates magnetism. Thus a magnetic person is always
improving his power instead of using it up. Here again is
another important fact.
Believing that you have not yet grasped the meaning of these
distinctions, we will offer you a very familiar illustration in
the shape of an exercise, by which we will show the value of
increasing the flow of vitality in place of setting its tension
to start the action.
Get a small part of a broom handle about six inches long.
Hold this in your right hand. Shut your hand over the stick
as tightly as you can. This is a muscular setting of tension, and
has no value in developing magnetism. If you were to hold a
full length broom handle in both hands, and some one were to
try to take it from you, you would grasp it with both hands
and with the muscles set. They are thus tensed, but the tensing
has no value. It is never true that muscular or physical power
develops magnetism. On the contrary it offsets it, and tends
to decrease its growth.
Returning now to the six-inch length of the stick which you
are holding in your right hand, instead of grasping it tightly,
take hold of it as lightly as you can and retain it. Here the
hand is relaxed. Now add the least bit of power to your hand
as you hold the stick. Then gradually and slowly add more,
PHYSICAL TENSING 213
not by a series of increases, but by a smooth flow of additional
force ; and keep this going as long as you can do so, without
reaching that degree of grasp that is required for muscular
tension.
When the increase in nervous flow approaches the force used
by the muscles, stop. Never go as far with the nerves as the
muscles go in their tension. This margin leaves the flow wholly
nervous.
Now it is this INCREASE in the nervous flow and the margin
that is left, without reaching a muscular climax, that generates
magnetism. And it generates it rapidly and in great quantity.
The question arises, have you caught the meaning and the
importance of this distinction ?
The principle of life cannot be explained, yet it is a process
constantly generating the magnetic power. The author has
known of many persons who have so mastered the exercises of
this series of lessons that they could easily feel the life principle
at work within them. This has proved the seat of life to be
co-extensive with the brain and the organs enclosed within the
walls of the chest, the spinal column and the diaphragm.
Physiologists who analyse this agency will at once comprehend
the deeper questions of life.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
Tense conditions magnetize.
It is the, central law of magnetism. In the first place, it
is necessary to understand what is meant by the word tense.
The dictionary very nearly expresses it when presenting the
definition as not lax. It is also called rigid, or possessing the
power of firmness. In this study the meaning of the word tense
is this : The power or condition that exists when any part of the
body is passing from a state of laxity to a state of rigidity.
It is ffieT
opposite of laxity.
It is not rigidity.
In a condition of laxity the muscles are devitalized or devoid
of life expression. In a condition of rigidity the muscles are
set ; the work is done ;
the end is attained. Nothingls going
on at the time except that the nerves are holding the muscles
214 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
in place just as a man might hold a stone on a wall. To make
this matter clear several principles must be presented at this
place and discussed together.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
Setting the muscles produces muscular energy only.
We see illustrations of the various uses of the muscles in the
way calisthenics are performed in classes, as much in the high
schools as elsewhere. When the movements are languid, we
call the muscles devitalized or lax. You may try these and
see what is meant : Stand ;
raise the hands to the shoulders ;
shut up the fingers^ lightly, half clinching the fists. Extend the
arms slowly in the front, oblique front, lateral, and other
directions, and back a few times, keeping the motions as languid
as possible, and in every sense lazy. Then do them rapidly
but lazily. You see it does not make much difference what
degree of speed you use, if the muscles are lax.
In such manner are most of the exercises, calisthenics and
other movements performed in schools and under the direction
of teachers of physical culture, and the time is more than
wasted. Lax movements and lax conditions produce weariness.
Lax walking is the cause of exhaustion. Like begets like.
It is not good logic to suppose that a muscular action can
originate of itself ;
if it can, why will not an amputated arm act
as well by itself as when it has life to move it ? Or why does
an electric current cause a detached leg of a frog to move its
muscles ?
There must be energy behind the motion, or it will have no
vitality, and the nearer we get to the condition of energy the
farther we go from the tendency to weariness and exhaustion.
For this reason any lax movement is a detriment to the vitality
of the body ;
it is plain to understand that it loses its own stored
up force without having it replenished from the source of
supply. Therefore, lazy walking, or lax walking, to use a
more polite term, is wearying. Therefore, also, the lax manner
in which gymnastics, calisthenics and physical culture move-
ments are performed destroys all their value and even detracts
from the condition of the body prior to their employment.
PHYSICAL TENSING 215
This is why so many hundreds of thousands of persons fail
to get benefit from the most valuable of all means of health.
If the growth of the muscular strength is what is sought,
this end is to be attained under the present grand principle. It
is by setting the muscles that we make them strong. The
attempt to hang by the arms from a horizontal bar without
setting the muscles will tear away tissue that is necessary to
health. Pulling in the same way is injurious. But just as soon
as the muscles are set, the tissue is protected and vitality
supplants laxity. Any experienced person knows what we mean.
The method by which strength is attained is found in this law ;
yet nothing but muscular strength comes from such practice.
The facts may be concisely stated as follows :
1. Lax movements weary and exhaust.
2. Set movements strengthen the muscles.
3. The continual use of set movements leads to stiffness and
awkwardness, unless relieved by counter-movements. The
farmer and common labourer never make use of the counter-
effects ; their bodies lose their graceful shapes ; they are strong
enough, but never graceful or magnetic. It is almost always
possible to find grace among skilled artisans.
Thus we see the importance of tensing for all uses. Nothing
can be accomplished with the muscular system, either for
exercise or for work, unless it is tensed when it is employed.
But while there is a side relationship between such tensing
and that employed for the development of magnetism, it does
not generate the latter. It is the setting of the power that
defeats its use in magnetism work. What is needed is a
progressive increase of tensing for the latter purpose. Being
progressive it is developing, and while developing it builds as
it progresses. This progress is what we are seeking.
A person who works without tensing the muscles is doing
worthless work.
One who exercises for health without tensing the muscles is
doing worthless exercise, and useless physical culture.
But these matters belong to the physical side of life only.
LESSON THIRTY-EIGHT
NERVE TENSING
OUR
PRESENT LESSON brings us to a discussion of
the power that develops magnetism collectively from
the diffused state in which it exists in the body.
The latter, as has been stated, is composed of chemical
elements which are created by the formation of mole-
cules through the law of cohesion into fixed combinations,
each remaining the same unless affected by some such law as
radio-activity. Each molecule is made of a certain number of
atoms ;
the kind of element depending on the number of atoms
in each ; although the claim is being made that the number of
electrons in each atom determines the kind of chemical element.
In any event it is said to come down to electrons as the basis
of all matter, and all else. These being wholly electrical it
follows that the human body is a composite organism consisting
of nothing but magnetic forces.
Each unit is capable of developing a tremendous force in and
of itself.
As the human body is made up solely of electrical units, and
as the magnetism that is everywhere present in the body is
diffused, it follows that some agency must be invoked to bring
these diffused forces of magnetism into mass-control ;
and the
natural agency is the power of tensing the nerves, as dis-
tinguished from tensing the muscles. We have seen that the
latter must be tensed either for work or exercise in their
lines ;
so the nerves must be tensed, but in a wholly different
way, in order to develop magnetism.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
Magnetic tensing is the transit from laxity to rigidity.
The tensing is not the laziness of devitalization, nor is it
the stiffness of rigidity. In other words, it is not a condition
316
NERVE TENSING 217
of rest or of fixed strength, but a process of change. It is the
progressive increase of energy. The process is one that may
be easily understood. When nerves and muscles are lazy, they
depend upon no supply of power from the vital sources of the
body. When they are set, they are held by a fixed degree of
energy, which is alive but not progressive. When the muscles
are taken from a lax condition to one of strength, but not
allowed to reach a limit or to become set, the nerves are kept in
a progressive condition. This ever-changing effort makes a
continual demand on the source of supply, and the creation
of energy is the result of that demand.
There can be no growth of vitality where there is no occasion
for its use. Nature ordains that a demand shall be necessary
to create a supply. The same law holds true everywhere. The
muscles will not grow at all if they are not used. Being used,
they break down their tissue ;
the blood is excited towards
this breakdown, and it leaves its nutrition to repair the waste,
a thing it would not do had there been no effort, no breakdown,
no waste.
The only process by which man is able to generate electricity
within his body is by tensing. This consists in many ways of
using the body. We see the most noticeable examples of it
in persons who appear before audiences to speak, sing, act or
otherwise hold the interest. They are more readily observed,
more readily singled out, and we find their actions more gener-
ally understood. A person possessed of magnetism does not
tense and set the body all at once, for, if he were to do this,
the influence would soon be gone.
We recall hundreds of cases of lost magnetism owing to
this mistake. Here is a lawyer, young and inexperienced ;
he
rises to address the jury on an issue of great importance ; he
is full of his case ;
his magnetism springs from eye and voice
and bewilders his listeners in the opening sentences ;
he does
not begin easily increasing his energy gradually, as one of skill
in the magnetic art would be sure to do ;
he plunges into the
case with pent-up power blowing off all its steam on the first
words ;
he holds all hearers in thralldom ; then, in five minutes,
he feels that it is all gone, and the interest flags. His case
is lost. He wearied the jury. He commenced like an Alexander
and ended like a tired child. When his magnetism was blown
218 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
off in the first few minutes all his zeal, his earnestness, his
power had to vent itself in force ;
he shouted and gestured
vehemently ; having allowed his magnetism to escape, he
wearied the jury .
Many and many a speaker has told us that this has been
a common experience. They did not know the cause or the
process of the loss, but they knew that they began with a
magnetic charm and soon felt its collapse ;
then how empty
and hollow the voice sounded. Speakers who know nothing of
the technical laws of magnetism are obeying those laws on the
negative or the affirmative side ; they are failing or succeeding
by them. To commence any effort with a full head of energy
means a blow-off, and no opportunity is afforded for generating
the power, for there is no tensing.
All greatness is plain, simple, humble and quiet in its intro-
ductory efforts. This allows opportunity for tensing, for
growth, for an increase. Whether a conversation, a transaction
or a speech, it is to be likened to movements of the arm,
thus :
1. When the lax arm and hand are pressed forward and
back as in calisthenics, no energy is expressed, and this would
represent the indifferent speaker.
2. When the fist is held tightly clinched in the movements,
the physical and^oisy speaker is represented.
When each motion IJFtEe arm begins languidly and energy
is called in gradually and increasingly instead of all at once,
the magnetic speaker is represented.
It is worth one's while to watch such a person, whether
speaker, actor or conversationalist. Let us look at the first
named, the speaker. He steps forward on the platform, calm
and easy. The audience may be regarded as strangers to him,
or he to them. What will his effort prove to be ? We cannot
tell as yet, for we know nothing of him by reputation or
experience ;
but the student of magnetism may detect in his
repose and coolness the evidence of a magnetic power yet to
show itself. This, however, may be born of stupidity and cheap
conceit. A few minutes of time will tell ; for, if he is of the
latter mould, the moment he attempts to warm up he will
evince nervousness, and he will warm up suddenly.
He proceeds as easily as he began, but he has not displayed
NERVE TENSING 219
any evidence of the great orator. To be sure he speaks fluently
and steadily, if somewhat slowly. His language is interesting ;
it shows thought, care in preparation and a belief in its declara-
tions. The audience listens well. They really know that it is
not above the average quiet efforts of oratory, but it seems
smoother and pleasanter. They like it. They feel that it is
going to be more interesting ;
that something greater is at
hand. The very atmosphere seems to contain that information.
Soon the interest deepens. It appears to be in the facts
presented, but the voice and manner present them so pleasingly
that the audience would rather hear them than read them.
Now the student of magnetism notices that the eyes of the
speaker have darkened ;
no one else pays any attention to the
tiny fact. The grey, brown, blue or hazel has not changed,
but the pupil has distended, and this always appears black.
Then the student of magnetism, sitting on the platform or in the
front row, has observed that the body of this speaker, untrained
in the art as he probably is, has changed ;
the chest is gradually,
very slowly indeed, solidifying ;
it is full, large and firm, but
motionless ; the arms no longer hang devitalized, nor have
they suddenly become rigid. The shifting from the easy repose
of the opening lines to the energy that follows has been imper-
ceptible to everybody except the keenest observer. The speaker
is not only holding his magnetism, he is collecting more,
generating it rapidly by slow tensing ;
and soon it is felt in his
voice.
Every ear is attentive. Little by little, unconsciously to the
audience, the speaker has increased the tension of every part
of his body and of every faculty. He himself may have no
knowledge of it, for he may not think of it, but the fact exists
in him as in all magnetic persons, that there can be no increase
of power unless it is accompanied by a corresponding increase
of tensing. How was this fact ever seized upon for exercises
in this art ?
Simply because it was universally noticed that all
men and women who were possessed of personal magnetism were
always in a tensed condition while under perfect control.
LESSON THIRTY-NINE
THE TENSE TOUCH
ETLE
BY LITTLE we have approached this the
most important part of our work ;
and we will now
proceed to enter into the depths of it in order that
the progress may be marked and decided in its benefits.
We strongly advise that you read again the two preceding
lessons in order that this subject may be well understood ;
and also to help you obtain the utmost advantage from the
present and coming lessons. Learn what tensing really is when
applied to the development of magnetism.
By the present use of the word we refer to that quiet form
of increase in the development of energy that never reaches
its limit of power. It is gentle, but not lax. It is firm, but
not set. Between the extremes there is opportunity for a long
range of increase without too great firmness. If we can make
this clear we shall be able to get you started right in the
present period ;
and that will mean much to you.
We have met students who have failed, and we can always
tell in advance why they have failed. A gentleman called upon
the author some years ago and said,
"
I have not made as much
progress in the development of magnetism as I ought, although
some of my friends have done remarkably well." We replied,
"
It is possible to write down the cause of your failure before
you explain anything in detail," and we wrote and sealed a
brief statement which we gave him. Then we asked him to
perform the tension movement a half-dozen times. This he
did. We said,
"
The cause of your failure is in that envelope.
Open it." He did so, and read,
"
You tense too Suddenly and
reach the limit of force. Both these faults or either of them,
will stop all progress."
A tense condition of any faculty supplies energy, but it must
have the power of magnetism back of it, just as a live electric
THE TENSE TOUCH 221
wire must have a battery or generator to supply its force. It
could be alive and yet weak. Tensing calls into action the
magnetic stores of the body, even increases them, and co-
operates with the dead-still processes in producing both
quantity and power.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
The magnetic touch is always tense.
The first test of a person of magnetism is in the hand. If
it is cold there is either a withdrawal of vitality for the time
being, or the individual is lacking in magnetism. Warmth
alone is not sufficient. It is necessary, but not all that is
required. When you clasp the hand of one who possesses this
quality, the effect is not marked in any way except by a slight
muscular interest. The tight grasp is set and valueless, while
the lax touch is dead. No one likes to take a cold and flabby
hand.
There are men and even women who delight in hurting the
hand by giving a tight squeeze every time they welcome an
acquaintance. This is physical, and not in good taste. To
set the muscles for vigorous pressure is just as far from mag-
netism as is the lax hand which weak persons adopt from
necessity. Marital affection is the quickest generator of
magnetism, in a temporary way, that is known. Even the
ancients, four thousand years ago and less, knew that warm lips
and warm hands were two of the evidences of love. "Mature
ordains this to be so, for she compels the two sexes to attract
each other, and gives them the power to win, to enchain, to
enthrall, in order that the race may be perpetuated. Yet in
many cases this is a blind magnetism. The loveless hearts, or
those that never felt the power, are non-magnetic.
The delights of friendship are generally thrown away by
impetuous or careless individuals. What is the use of grasping
the hands as if they were tools of ice, or setting them as in a
vice ? Neither gives pleasure. One is affectation or weakness ;
the other is physical and emotionless. The true lover never
hurts the hand of his sweetheart ;
the latter never gives the light
grip. While timidity may vibrate the hand and make it tremble,
222 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
there is a series of finer, inner waves of pulsation that are
in no wayT?eIaEe3 toTEe former, just' as tHe ocean may roll
and toss in a storm, while its billows transmit the vibrations
of sound and the still tinier pulsations of light, all at the
same time. The feelings in a human body are variously
expressed, but the magnetism of love always tenses the body
and proves itself in touch, voice and sight.
If in your own life or in tGe experience of others you wish to
know the truth, and separate the real from the sham, apply
this rule, and watch the results. When the hands clasp each
other weakly, there is a negation of the avowals that have been
uttered by the tongue or pen ;
when they are set in their clasp,
there is the affirmative evidence of pretence, the attempt to
seem in earnest. If love genuine, honest love prompts the
greeting, the touch is at first as light, but soon holds the hand
in a slowly increasing pressure that never clasps tightly. The
interchange of opposite magnetic currents is the most delightful
sensation in the world. It is because of this great law of human
life that the book of Sex Magnetism has been written. It
has done, and is doing to-day, more good than any other work
or school of special education, for which reason it should be
placed within reach of all persons without cost but under proper
conditions.
As we write there is an old couple, as they call themselves,
although the man is not sixty and the woman not much over
forty, sitting in a room across the way watching the November
fires die in the western sky. They hold each other's hand as
sweetly as the tenderest lover of nineteen ;
none too old to
evince the keenest interest without impetuous display/ Look
at the maiden and her fianc6 ; they meet and greet with a
handshake that is perfunctory because they may not be
altogether alone. But when time and place are theirs they yield
to each other a far different tribute ;
it may be the good-bye of
the evening, or the more prolonged farewell of the visit. Their
eyes meet with deeper glance, moist with fervour ; large, full
eyes charged with the expression of kindred emotions. They
know instinctively that the lips are the agents of speech, that
words are idle vows, but that the tokens of speech coming
from the very source itself are deeds of exchange that may be
impressed with the seal of approval ; and, in a delicacy of
THE TENSE TOUCH 223
approach that drifts like a golden vapour nestling against the
silvery moon, he bends over the uplifted face, while a pressure
of the arm obliterates their identity, and the crimson bloom
mounts her fair cheeks and paints roses in a garden of lilies.
The cold lipped reader of this page will shudder at our descrip-
tion and think it strange. Without magnetism there is no
sentiment in life, no poetry, no sweetness, no charm, nothing
but the plainness of mechanical existence.
There is no better way of developing the power of magnetism
than in the touch of the hand through the ordinary greeting.
Avoid the two extremes. Remember that the lax hand is
worthless, and that the set grasp is insincere, if not an automatic
fault. Do not think that mere firmness is all that is required.
Tensing is an increasing approach to a rigidity that is never
reached when the increase cannot be maintained, a limit is
found and that is non-magnetic. Nothing better indicates
progress than this power, and progress never stands still. It is
in the first delicate growth toward firmness that the body, the
arm and the hand evince magnetism. Experiments can be
made all day long with decided results. It is hardly necessary
to add that nothing unusual in your conduct should attract
attention, for it would at once end the usefulness of the practice.
By this is meant that any form of practice should be so
conducted that it will not be noticed by another person. But
there are phases of your life that will command the interest of
others ;
and these relate to your general changes from what you
were to what you have become. Thus the person of a month
ago is now so much improved that others mentally comment on
the fact. An employer said of his clerk,
"
Something has
happened ;
a new personality is evident." The young lady in
society of a short time ago is not the young lady of to-day. But
no one has seen the transformation taking place.
All these methods may be adopted as habits. They will
require attention to begin with, but this will soon blend into
the ordinary occurrences of the day, and will take no time after
they are well established.
LESSON FORTY
THE TENSE VOICE
STILL
ADVANCING in our study, we come now to
the consideration of the chief avenue of communication
between human beings, wEIch is the speaking voice.
Perhaps ninety per cent of all communication is made
by the sounds of the voice, when magnetism is employed.
It is true that a letter may be magnetic, but only through
what is known as mental magnetism ;
and printed words may
in the same way hold power over a reader. There is a very
large Department of this book that is devoted to the Magnetic
Voice ;
but as we are dealing with tension, we are including the
tense voice in the present Department. It will make the Voice
lessons so much easier to master.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
The magnetic voice is always tense.
Magnetism, exerted through the voice in speaking and
singing, is so very important an accomplishment that we devote
one entire Step in this course to the subject. Here, we briefly
sketch some phases of the use of magnetic voice.
There are three general classes of voices : the flat, the tense
and the emotional. The first is the common sound which is
everywhere heard, from the simplest remark up to the vigorous
tones of the market-man or the wearisome orator ; a mere
mechanism of sound. Flat voices are never tense, never vibrant,
never possessed of feeling ;
for which reason the street vendor
would never succeed in the lecture field ; and for which reason
also the vast majority of public speakers, preachers, advocates
and others fail who might be great if they had the enterprise
to get better delivery.
In daily conversation this flatness of sound is the universal
THE TENSE VOICE 225
experience. When a voice tires you, the cause is easily ascer-
tained. No tense voice is ever wearisome. Some vibrant voices
are. Some emotional voices are. There are so many charac-
teristic classes of sound vibration involved that the subject
seems endless. Sound itself is a wave-force, but when kept
within its own range it is always sound. It is possible to add
other vibrations to it. Even the church organ is given a tremolo
that corresponds to the same action of the singing and speaking
voice ;
but this is neither evidence of tenseness or of feeling.
Many persons wonder why the piano or the organ yields
a more impressive sound under the touch of a genius than
when the amateur manipulates it ;
and why at times the expert
is more skilful than usual. Technique and finish are factors
of importance, but there is the indescribable something that
cannot be accounted for by any rules of execution. It is mag-
netism. But how can magnetism affect a musical instrument ?
Is the latter not a mechanical affair that is what it is made
to be, a mere tool ? Yes, but so are the vocal chords of the
throat. So is everything ; bones, flesh, muscles, nerves, all are
parts of a machine of matter. Behind the material is the soul,
the vital-spark, the magnetic quality. So when the gifted
musician touches the keys of the musical instrument this
quality lives in the vibrations of a tense hand, waves as small
as light-pulsations that go out into the air and awaken a
harmony in all other life.
But they are felt by all who hear them.
If your voice is flat it can never be magnetic ; and the first
step to be taken is towards the destruction of the* flatness.
This is done by the adoption of the tremolo in all degrees of
coarseness and fineness ;
an old attempt to substitute the
appearance for the reality. The throat tremolo is used much in
musical training, but it is not natural. Emotion springs fronf
the diaphragm, a large muscle situated at the base of the lung
cavity and just above the stomach. To find this muscle, place
the fingers over the stomach at that place where the apex of
the rib-arch is found. It is at the highest part of the abdomen
and the lowest part of the chest, at the soft bone.
When you cough the diaphragm jumps up and its edge gives
a leap forward. This can be detected by the fingers. Now
take a deep breath, place the palm of the left hand on this
is
226 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
edge of the diaphragm and the palm of the right hand over
back of the left hand. Pronounce the sound "
oo
"
as long as
possible, while shaking the lower chest with the rapid action of
the hands. This will make the tone shaky. It is the only
natural tremolo, for the diaphragm by its vibrations produces
laughter, gladness, joy, grief, sorrow, weeping, crying, hysterics
and every mood known to the human heart.
This class of vibrations is divisible into a hundred or more
grades. The usual series in the study of expression embraces
ten only and they should be fixed in the voice by practice.
After the hand has caused the tremolo, the next step is to
produce it without the aid of the hand. Prolong the sound
"
oh
"
instead of
"
oo
"
with a decided tremolo, and keep at it
until it is very easy to say such sentences as the following with
ease :
"
Pity the sorrows of a poor old man,"
"
Oh, the long and
dreary winter
"
;
"
Dear master, I can go no farther," and the
like. When this can be done the next step is to increase and
decrease the range of the vibrations ;
that is, to make them
wider and narrower at will. The doing of this is of the utmost
importance and is not an easy task.
We recommend that you make a gamut of the tremolos, from
one to ten. Take a large piece of brown paper and a heavy
pencil. Across the top make a wavy line, about ten inches
long and two inches wide, and mark this the tenth degree of
the tremolo. Under it make another wavy line ten inches long ;
but witfi^vaves only an inch high, calling it the ninth degree ;
under that put another wavy line, three-fourths of an inch
high, as^fche eighth degree ; then under that put the seventh
degree, which will have waves a half-inch high ;
then the sixth
degree, with waves three-eighths of an inch high ;
then the fifth
degree with waves one-fourth of an inch high ;
then the
fourth degree with waves one-eighth of an inch high ;
the third
degree with waves one-sixteenth of an inch high ; the second
degree, with waves one-thirty-second of an inch high, and a
straight line for the first degree, representing a flat voice. The
rule of practice is to begin at the middle degree and increase,
then decrease in turn. It will be seen that the scale of increase
is not regular. When the finer tremolos can be used at will it is
necessary to exclude the plain ones. A plain tremolo is one that
is audible ;
it expresses emotion rather than magnetism. A
THE TENSE VOICE 227
concealed tremolo is one that is present but not noticeable. It
attracts no attention as a wave-action of sound, but it affords
an easy transit to a tense voice. To develop the latter we advise
the foregoing practice, and then the use of the sentences given
in connection with the tense eye under the following methods.
The purpose of cultivating these fine and indistinguishable
vibrations is to destroy the flatness of the voice, and to prevent
the building of the voice of an auctioneer or mere stouter, such
as we often hear in public addresses. This is one purpose, but
not the main one. The waves must be too fine to be noticed.
As soon as they are given the intense power that belongs to
the magnetic voice, their real value will be recognized. There
will be no morelndifferent listeners anywhere.
In order to produce the tense voice, assuming that you have
acquired the fine vibrations as stated, develop the tensejohest
according to the practice that will follow in this Department,
and associate with it the tense^eye
as taught in the Department
of the Magnetic Eye in the early part of this book. You
are then ready to graduate from this lesson of the tense voice.
We repeat here some quotations that are useful. Let each one
be spoken easily without raised pitch or loudness of tone ;
keeping the chest tense and the eye tense :
"
I will have my bond." Emphasize the last word.
"
I WILL have my bond/' Emphasize the second word.
Repeat this quotation now with the hand becoming Gradually
tense as it closes in firm determination.
"
Civilisation on her luminous wings soars phoenix-like to
Jove." Repeat this with raised eyes tensed, chest tense,
vibrant voice, and right hand raised over the head. Repeat
twenty times each day until the power that is sought shall be
recognized by you as having come into the voice.
In this connection review all the lessons of the Department
of the Magnetic Eye, and read ahead the remaining lessons
in this Department.
LESSON FORTY-ONE
THE GREATEST POWER IN LIFE
NOTHING
IS SIMPLER than forming tensing habits,
and blending them into the various activities of life.
The only difficulty arises in learning the difference
between setting the muscles and tensing the nerves,
as both processes seem associated in part at least. The dis-
tinction has been made clear in the preceding lessons, thirty-
eight and thirty-nine. They should be carefully reviewed. If
the purpose is to exert muscular strength, a firm preparation
for that effort is necessary, but that kind of effort never develops
magnetism.
The latter comes from the progressive increase of nervous
effort, beginning with the lax or relaxed condition, and gradually
vitalizing the nerves in any part of the body. It is better
always to devitalize the part that is to be trained ;
then slowly
vitalize it. This change is seen in the tensing of the hands.
Try at %$t with one hand, the right. Relax that, so that it is
devoid of any power. Slowly vitalize it by closing the fingers ;
but closing them is not enough ;
add vitality as you close them,
but add it gradually to avoid setting the muscles.
Another way is to shut the fist tightly and yet relax it so
that there is no vitality in it ;
then slowly add vitality. In the
first case you closed the fingers at the same time that the
tensing was going on ; closing and tensing together. In the
second case, you closed the fist first, and afterwards slowly
tensed it.
Any increase of vitality by the process known as tensing
that does not go far enough to set the muscles, draws mag-
netism from its diffused or scattered state in the body to the
nerve centres and to the nerves that are being tensed. This has
always been Nature's way, and there is no other method that
is natural. In these lessons we are simply copying Nature.
M8
THE GREATEST POWER IN LIFE 229
A test of whether you are actually tensing instead of gradually
setting the muscles is found in the following experiment.
Learn first to relax or devitalize. Relax the hand. By this is
meant that all muscular effort has gone out of it ;
the fingers
may be shaken about like so may limp rags.
The test is made by maintaining that relaxed condition of
the hand while tensing the whole arm from the shoulders down
to the wrist, and there ending the tensing effort. In other
words you cut off the vitality at the wrist, holding it in the
arm. When you can do this you will recognize what is meant
by tensing ;
for it is not possible to set the arm muscles while
the wrist is devitalized. The test is so valuable that, if you can
meet the requirements, you will quickly be able to generate
an unlimited amount of magnetism throughout the whole
body.
Next after completing this test, you may proceed rapidly
with the rest of the body. But first carry the test to the left
arm and hand after finishing with the right ;
and then make
yourself so skilful in the action that you can at any time on a
second's notice repeat the performance with either arm.
Repeat these conditions with the right leg and foot ; relaxing
the latter until it is devitalized, then while maintaining that
state tense the whole leg. Transfer the test now to the left
leg and foot, and keep practising until you are an expert at it.
The neck must receive attention now. Before making the
experiment at that part of the body, look back to the lessons
of the Magnetic Eye, in which the vital centres are explained.
To sum them up briefly, all that is necessary here to say is that
the centre of the top of the head, the centre of the neck, the
centre of the chest and the centre of the hips, all must be in
'
a vertical line, one above the other, as if a plumb-line had
been dropped down through them. Stand and sit
always with
these vital centres maintained. It means a great deal to you
eventually ; besides which it is the only natural position that
indicates vigour, strength, mental power and magnetism.
We have witnessed many episodes in human experience, and
we have never seen any exhibition of magnetic power that was
not accompanied by the maintenance of these vital centres.
More than this, it means better health, better form, better
physical appearance, and the status of youth ;
for the man pr
230 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
woman who always maintains the vital centres in the vertical
line, will never take on age.
Having learned this, now try to tense the neck, not by setting
the muscles, but b^slowly calling nerve force
^^^hejuggort^
of the head. Do not forget that, in an early lesson, it was shown
that the third brain controls all the vital functions of life ; that,
after the vital centres were discovered and kept constantly in
their vertical line, the attempt to force the top of the head a
half-inch nearer the ceiling by lifting the head so as to pull at
the muscles of the neck, stimulated the circulation of the blood,
one of the most noticeable effects being the warming of the feet
and hands by this increased excitement of the function of
circulation ;
and that respiration was increased to a wonderful
degree, thereby bringing new life into the blood and helping
the development of greater magnetism. We have said that aU
magnetic people have warm hands and feet.
Following along this same line of experiment, we learn to
tense the neck while at the same time stretching it all we can,
even if less than one-hundredth of an inch, by trying to raise
the top of the head in the direction of the ceiling above.
When this double practice has been developed to a proper
degree of efficiency, the results will be wonderful. They will
surprise you. Many of our pupils have expressed themselves
as believing them to be uncanny. One of the greatest psycholo-
gists now living witnessed these experiments, and became so
interested in them that he set about practising this double
action, which he mastered in a few days. He said of the results :
"
The stretching of the neck pulls on the spine, pulls on the
muscles and nerves that are meshed about the medulla, and
excites enough flow of vitality to that locality to stimulate it.
So delicate is it that the influence of the weight of a feather
reaching it would excite it to greater activity. But it would
not need any appreciable excitement to make it accomplish
wonders. We know that the touch of a needle-point on certain
parts of the brain would produce mountainous results, if that
term is allowable. So the pulling of the neck muscles in an
upward direction may do as much. But in addition to this
is your tensing, which in and of itself is a wonderful repro-
duction of Nature. The two combined are capable of exerting
unlimited powers. Then will follow the psychological value
THE GREATEST POWER IN LIFE 231
of the combination, and you have the most powerful agency in
life transforming the body into a dynamo of energy. I have
never seen its equal."
This medulla or third brain, is the top section of the spinal
column, and while it controls and directs all the vital functions
of the body, it also throws a powerful flood of magnetism into
the brain itself when these double experiments are made. T5o
not treat this part of the work hastily. If you will take time
for the study and practice of this combination, we promise that
you will meet with a degree of success in this and other lines
that will astound you beyond all words of description.
Having mastered the above combination which stands out
as the greatest aid to human power ever known, you are next
to develop the tense chest.
GRAND PRINCIPLE
The tense chest generates vital-magnetism.
To the man or woman who would become magnetic in the
shortest possible time this principle is most important, for it
is most helpful. It is not enough that the vital organs be raised
and maintained ;
that is of inestimable value, but the life itself
of the chest and all its contents must be kept energized. This
does not mean that the chest is to be set or strained by muscular
effort, for that will lead to no good.
Direct the mind as closely as possible to the inner portion of
the chest, keeping the outward part immovable. Think of a
point as near the centre as possible. Make the whole internal
portions tense, and as gradually as possible. It will be some
time before this can be accomplished. The nerves and not the
muscles are, in fact, exercised by this process.
A magnetic person can in an instant generate, also, a heat
within that can be felt very distinctly, giving a glow of warmth,
that is transmitted by the vibratory process through the eye,
voice or touch to any person within reach of these.
When the voice is impelled by these influences it becomes an
agency of great power.
LESSON FORTY-TWO
THE GREATEST ENGINE OF VITALITY
WE
NOW COME to the pleasantest part of the in-
struction in this line of study, which is called tense
walking. In order to know the exhilaration of the
habit, we must learn to develop a knowledge of the great engine
of vitality, which in medical books is called thejiiaphragm.
It is a large and wide muscle, constituting the entire floor of the
lungs or roof of the stomach. It reaches from one side of the
body to the other and from the front to the back. The ancients
taught that here was the seat of the soul. But it is merely the
great engine of vitality.
**"~
It is full of mischief, and can play many pranks. If, for
instance, it gets fast in its upward movement and will not go
down by its own impulse, the result is that you will have the
hiccoughs. We were called at one time to visit a person who
had suffered from this malady for two days and no doctor
could relieve him. We showed him in ten minutes how to take
in more breath than he had been inhaling, increasing this
intake with each respiration, and as soon as he was able to
take in a fair amount of air, the diaphragm was forced down
to its place, and the hiccoughs ceased at once. We have known
this method to be employed successfully many times. It is
valuable in mild cases when a person wishes to get rid of this
troublesome condition. Its cause is merely a raised diaphragm
that will not go down until the lungs are filled with air, and the
breath Jjeld for a short time.
The act of sneezing is interesting as showing the relationship
between the nerves, the third brain, and the respiratory function.
If you have a grain of dust in the nostril, it will tickle the nerve
there ;
this nerve will communicate with the medulla, or third
brain, which is the top section of the spine ;
and as this third
brain controls the organ of respiration, that muscle which i
THE GREATEST ENGINE OF VITALITY 233
called the diaphragm will suffer a quick paroxysm, with the
result that it will rise with great suddenness, hurl the breath
out through the nose or mouth, and produce what is called the
sneeze. This sneezing is frequent in colds or hay fever ;
and
we find that over half all such cases are due to false sensations
which may be controlled.
Another set of caprices that this great engine of vitality
indulges in is called mirth, and it has many varieties. If -a
young man says something nice to the girl who is just blooming
into society, her diaphragm will respond with rippling waves of
action, the result being that she will giggle. Mild forms of mirth
are caused by the same organ. There are twenty different kinds
of laughter, each requiring a different throbbing action of this
organ that rests at the base of the lungs. Actual laughter of the
robust kind is merely the very large motions of the same organ.
In hysteria the whole trouble arises in this diaphragm, whose
powers are then running wild like a motor vehicle plunging
ahead uncontrolled. As laughter is exactly the same action as
weeping, the sounds emitted by the person who is indulging in
hysterics are as often laughing tones as crying ones. Some
people weep with joy ;
others laugh with joy. When a child is
crying, the transition from weeping to laughing cannot be
recognized without seeing the face.
When a person weeps the corners of the mouth droop ;
these
pull on the tear sacs, and tears flow. Laughter that is attended
by the drooping mouth is prolific of tears. Hard crying, yelling,
or bawling, is a form of shouting that can be turned to loud
laughter in less than one second of time. Of course the
emotional mood controls the result ; but the diaphragm does
all the work in any case.
When you pant, it is the diaphragm.
When you gasp in horror or otherwise, it is the diaphragm.
When your attention is concentrated on any idea, this organ
of respiration almost stops its action.
When your mind and thoughts are wholly absorbed in some-
thing, this organ of respiration CEASES ITS ACTION
COMPLETELY. This cessation has been known to last for
minutes and then to be followed by a minimum of breathing,
thus lowering the vitality and endangering the heart and
general health, This cessation has been caused countless
234 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
by giving rapt attention to what is being said and done ;
and
it accompanies any attempt to hypnotize a person ; therefore
it is important that you practise the teachings of this lesson for
warding off all outer influences, no matter of what character.
A lowered diaphragm develops magnetism naturaUy.
A raised diaphragm depresses life, 'weakens "health, and
destroys magnetism.
In hypnosis it is raised.
In rapt attention it is raised.
In hysterics it is raised.
In hiccoughs it is raised.
In giggling, simpering and suppressed or abnormal levity it
is raised.
When another person is holding any kind of control over
you, your organ of respiration, the diaphragm, is raised.
In fainting the diaphragm is raised.
In illness it is raised.
In death it is raised.
In any condition of the mind that transfers the full attention
to something, such as a game of gambling, or of chance, as of
cards, this organ is raised in the same position as in death.
For these reasons and because such condition depresses life,
weakens health and destroys magnetism, it is important that
this fault should be overcome by the formation of a new habit.
This is accomplished by the following practice :
1. Learn to recognize the location of the diaphragm. It is
the floor of the lungs, and is to be found at the top of the
abdomen above the stomach, at the arch of the front ribs, where
the soft part of the abdomen joins the bones. Place the tips
of the fingers of both hands at this part, and cough. As the
diaphragm does all the coughing, it will give a series of jumps
when that action is going on. Try one big cough, and note the
way in which the diaphragm gives a big jump. Snivelling is
caused by small jumps of the same organ.
2. Next exhale all the air from the lungs, then inhale as
much as you can, and hold the breath for one second. After a
rest, repeat the whole process and hold the breath two seconds.
Then exhale as before all the air from the lungs, after another
rest ;
breathe in all you can, and hold the breath three seconds.
3. After another rest exhale all you can, then inhale all you
THE GREATEST ENGINE OF VITALITY 235
can, hold the breath for four seconds, and tense the locality of
the diaphragm, which is done by directing attention to it as
the breath is retained in the lungs. This tensing is best done by
attempting to spread the lower chest as far to the right and
to the left, as well as in front and back, as is possible. This is
called expanding the diaphragm. When this organ is raised
it is contracted ; when lowered habitually it is expanded. It is
able to carry on the process of respiration in the lowered
position, despite the fact that it rises for exhalations and falls
for inhalations. But there is a vast difference between a rising
and falling diaphragm in a raised position, and a rising and
falling diaphragm in a lowered position.
4. As soon as you are able to master this habit, adopt it
always. This means to keep the locality of this great engine of
vitality both tensed and expanded. You will soon find yourself
a very much changed and improved person with new courage,
new confidence and new powers.
5. Combine the tensingjmdjjxpanding of the diaphragm with
the very excellent practice of tensing the chest. Both are
related, and should work together.
Remember that in tensing and expanding the diaphragm and
also in assuming the positions just described, the abdomen must
not be allowed to protrude. If you are over-large in that section,
this lesson will slowly but very gradually reduce you there, for
it gives to the body its most beautiful and graceful shape.
Persistent attention, however, is necessary. - ,
^TFese exercises are in use in institutions that have purchased
this system of personal magnetism for the purpose of imparting
health, vitality, grace, freedom from awkwardness, and beauty
of form and action to pupils who have sought the best re-
finements of the body. They destroy all bad developments,
ill-shapes and evil habits of carriage, and overcome flat chests,
fallen shoulders, spinal curvatures and unattractive positions.
But these advantages are incidental only.
p
LESSON FORTY-THREE
TENSE WALKING
ERHAPS THE MOST pleasing and exhilarating of
all habits is that of the tense walk. It combines the
tense eye as taught in the Department of the Magnetic
Eye, the tense neck, the tense diaphragm and the tense
chest. These seem like a ponderous combination of new habits
to be learned and acquired ;
but they fall into place naturally
and simply in a very short time. They hardly involve as
much work as would be needed to master a few lessons on the
piano. When once adopted they come about as habits just as
easily as the habit of good manners may be acquired in any one
line of conduct.
Tense walking is a rapid generator of magnetism.
Here we have the most wholesome and healthful of all
exercises, and the one that is most easily adopted, for all persons
who hope to possess vitality in a strong degree must depart to
some extent from a purely sedentary life, and walking is
common to all.
We have watched those women who, as queens of their homes
or in the fashionable drawing-rooms, take leadership because
of that commanding charm which the world calls personal
magnetism, and they have never been the weak affecters of
dignity, nor the set muscular types of strength ;
but they always
have shown unmistakable evidences of the tense character.
We have closely studied many a speaker who has aroused his
audience to the highest realms of pleasure and enthusiasm by
the same quality ;
and we never yet have seen one who did not
gradually become tense as the magnetic vitality grew and in-
creased. We have observed the men and women of the great
activities of life, as they were engaged in the commonest
TENSE WALKING 237
duties, and the same law held true. Even in walking they are
different from the lax and lazy, on the one hand, and from
the stiff and muscular, on the other hand.
There are two kinds of magnetia walking ;
the plain method
is that of easy and gentle tensing ; the beautiful method is that
of alternating tenseness and release. Both are very valuable as
means of culture as well as of development in vitality. The
reader of these pages who is able to adopt as the fixed habit of
life either one of these two styles of walking, has already gone a
long way toward victory in the present study ; for the practice
of such walking is like an electric generator that is always
creating the needed power. Habitual tense walking takes the
place of nearly all other practice in this period. Continue with
it the two other great exercises, and you have
THE MAGNETIC TRINITY
1. Maintain vital organ muscles as a permanent habit.
2. The tense chest as a permanent habit.
3. Tense walking as a permanent habit.
And the advantage is that they do not require a minute of
time, nor take you from the regular duties of life.
The tense walk is acquired at first by comparisons. The
beginning of the practice is in the lazy walk, which represents
the languid condition of the body. This is always wearying.
The next effort is to take rigid steps, allowing the knee to spring
back with firmness as the weight comes wholly on each leg.
Then increase the speed a little, and avoid springing the knee
fully back. Here we have an excellent example of tensing in
walking. To set the muscles firmly on each step will accomplish
the same results provided there is not great rigidity ; and this
permits of slow walking. Rapid lax walking is injurious to the
nervous powers. Rapid set walking exhausts the muscles.
Rapid tense walking is midway between the two, and is highly
beneficial to the health and nervous system. Let some form of
tense walking be made a habit.
TENSE AND RELEASE
The most beautiful and most valuable type of walking is that
which embodies the same practice as is seen in the tensing of
the arm preceded and followed by laxity ;
each change being
238 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
gradual. To do this in walking the whole leg is devitalized as
it becomes free after the weight leaves it ;
and is tensed as it
again assumes the weight ;
each action being gradual, although
done quickly. When properly executed the walk has every
appearance of being unstudied and easy ; although a crude
experimenter would make it laboured and unnatural. There is
nothing gained by lifting a free foot tensed ;
and the more this
walk is considered the more natural it seems. A compromise is
secured by the following method :
Walk slowly and firmly with a tension in both legs, made
stronger on each alternate leg as the body passes the weight over
it in walking. Thus it will be noticed, that, while the tension is
to be kept great during the entire exercise, it becomes greater
while the leg carries the weight of the body, as is done in every
step. The will-power should be kept constantly on this slight
increase of tension at these times.
When several weeks have been spent in this practice, the habit
should be formed and applied permanently to everyday
pedestrianism. It then, of course, becomes more rapid, and
varies itself with the circumstances attending each mode of
walking.
A magnetic person is known by his walk.
At first the new method may seem awkward, but when it has
become a habit, it is the most graceful carriage of the body
known.
This line of development, like all else in the study of personal
magnetism, brings with it every kind of advantage, even if the
specific purpose of the instruction were not sought. It proves
that what is acquired for establishing a personal attainment, if
it becomes useful in every phase of life, is a part of Nature's
purposes and plans to better humanity.
But the present Department of tensing stands in the fore-
ground of value and importance, as it brings results rapidly and
they are absorbed into permanent habits. One of the most
skilful, successful and wealthiest psychologists now living has
said of our present line of instruction :
"
Any person could safely offer the sum of 1000 to any
man or woman who failed to acquire magnetism by the tensing
methods alone ;
and these are but a contributory part to the
magnificent system which they serve."
DEPARTMENT OF REPOSE
LESSON FORTY-FOUR
THE FIRST VICTORY
EVERY
STEP IN OUR PROGRESS becomes more
and more interesting and important, if such can be
the case where every part of the work is of the highest
value. In this new Department we have used the
term REPOSE in place of the former title of dead-still practice ;
but either will suffice. It is necessary to offer the explanation
that by repose in this art we refer to life that is not wasting
itself ;
not to the absence of life. The more life that is present
in the mind and body, and the greater the calmness in the
process of thought and the power of the body, the more value
there will be in such repose. Here we must contend with and
defeat the greatest and most common foe of magnetism, the
loss of vitality.
General restlessness is the most frequent cause of leakage of
vitality.
A person is generally restless who is uneasy, fidgety, squirm-
ing, or in any way addicted to irritating activity. This cause of
leakage is not the same as that known as nervousness, or
depressed nerves, or prostration of the vitality.
If there were no enemies of magnetism in the human body,
there would be no case of nervous prostration, no case of
neurasthenia, no case of depressed vitality, and no case of
mental exhaustion. All these ills are direct results of allowing
weeds, which we call enemies, to enter and to remain in the
habits of life. Thus, without intending to deal with matters
of nerve-health, we find the study of magnetism the most
important cure of such maladies.
When once you have concluded that such a man or such a
240 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
woman whom you meet or see from time to time is magnetic,
you will soon discover a train of facts, not one of which would
have attracted your attention unless brought before your mind
for the purpose of analysis. These facts are always the same,
no matter who the man or woman may be, if the charm of
personal magnetism be present. As they always agree, there
must be some natural law at work producing them, and at the
same time producing the power known as personal magnetism.
We recall several friendly interviews with Hon. Henry W.
Grady, the great orator, many years ago. Not only in his public
worE7but in private as well, he gave unmistakable evidence of
the possession of personal magnetism. There was a charm in
his voice, a charm in his step, a charm in his presence, a charm
in his methods of execution. The more he undertook, the better
he did it. The more he engaged in broader activities of life,
the greater seemed to be his hold upon his fellow-beings. In
youth and young manhood giving no evidence of unusual
ability, he unfolded his usefulness just in proportion as he
unfolded his magnetism. He drew men to him. They liked to
receive orders and suggestions from him. They enjoyed the
work of carrying out the grander thoughts which grew upon his
mind as he extended his efforts on behalf of his country.
There is no doubt that in his case the fame he acquired and
the following secured were due wholly to the magnetism that
grew as he added years to his career.
Now, while some would regard him as a nervous man, he was
not a restless, fidgety, squirming or uneasy individual. His
nervousness, if it could be called by that term, was the presence
of power.
But the very first thing that attracted attention, when one
came into the room where Mr. Grady was standing or sitting,
was his total lack of restlessness. If there were twenty men
present with him, and all were standing, he would attract
attention by reason of his superior physical quietude ; provided,
of course, the mind were making the analysis. If there were
a dozen, or dozens of men and women present, and all were
sitting, he would be the first to win approval from the critic
who was seeking proof of the first cause of magnetism.
Yet not one person in ten thousand would be able to analyse
this difference or explain it.
THE FIRST VICTORY 241
This freedom from restlessness is not the stiffness of a person
of awkward carriage who braces himself into a fixed position
and resolves to maintain it or die in the attempt. Relaxation is
the basis of ease, polish and grace ;
but it must be the relaxation
of power, not of laziness. It must be the flexibility of great
nervous tension, and not the deadness of the grave. These ideas
will be worked out as the later steps are taken in this study.
An engine may lack fuel and have the repose of emptiness ;
or it may contain tremendous power and be calm in its repose,
or smooth in its action.
We were so much fascinated in our youth and earlier manhood
with the consideration of the traits of magnetic people, that we
carefully inquired into the private lives of some of the leading
men and women of this country ; always seeking to ascertain
if it was true that there were uniform habits that accom-
panied the power known as personal magnetism. How we
succeeded is a matter for the public, but how we secured the
evidence may or may not interest the students of this book.
We have all along laid down the general proposition that any
sincere and earnest man or woman who seeks information for
proper ends can very easily gain admission into the private lives
of great men and women. y
When the author was sixteen years of age, two of his works
had been published. They attracted some attention, and this
alone was helpful in making acquaintances. Not long after that
he established and published successfully a periodical which also
proved helpful. Still later he allied himself with some news-
papers and their editors, and served in the capacity both of
contributor and reporter. These offices gave him the right to
create new acquaintances. He was personally known to a
number of the most prominent men and women at a time when
the country was rich in the fame of such personages. Later
on he was identified with lecture work, employing such speakers
as Phillips," Gough, Beecher and others, all of whom were most
gifted with the power of personal magnetism. He knew in other
ways such men as Brooks, Newman, Sumner, Conkling, Grady,
Edwin Booth, Wilson Barrett, Lawrence Barrett, and scores of
others, all of whom were successful because they were magnetic.
Not one of these great men possessed the power of hypnotiz-
ing. All were successful in the highest degree. Not one was
16
242 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
in the least impressionable under the efforts of a hypnotist.
The uniformity of these facts shows conclusively that personal
magnetism is in no way associated with hypnotism.
But it is also true that not one of these men, nor any men or
women who have ever been magnetic, was addicted to the fault
of general restlessness ;
at least not as long as life was successful
in each individual case. We recall that, during the last years
of the career of Lawrence Barrett, when a certain malady
depressed him, he became quite nervous, and restlessness was
seen at work undermining his power. But such an exception
proves the rule.
Apply this fact to any phase of professional or practical life
that you please, and note the result.
It must be remembered that a magnetic person must attract,
and therefore must be attractive. The fidgety and restless
person is not only unattractive, but is repellent. In addition
to this disadvantage, there follows the loss of vitality from the
body which is carrying away with it the magnetic power that
is necessary for success after the repellent influences have
disappeared.
This is the first victory.
A fine illustration of the efficacy of this power of repose, under
great pressure of energy held in bondage, comes from the
testimony of a man of world-wide reputation who undertook
the study of this system for the sole purpose of overcoming his
almost uncontrollable temper when angered. He says :
"
I
learned from your book that perfect repose counts most value
when the whole body, mind and nerves are aroused to a fearful
power. That described me when I was aroused to frenzy by
some person whom I hated. I kept myself in perfect repose ;
but I looked, thought and felt daggers. I was ready to explode,
but was as calm as a summer zephyr. I learned the secret of
life."
LESSON FORTY-FIVE
CALMNESS
HAVING
ACHIEVED THE FIRST VICTORY by
the resolute determination to put an end to leakage
and restlessness, it will be possible now to take up
the affirmative lines of practice in substituting repose of
power in place of loss of energy. Examples are always
helpful in acquiring an understanding of the meaning of a
great proposition. These examples are seen in everyday life
about us. First let us recall a case in court where we witnessed
the conduct of two opposing counsel.
1. One was active, full of life and movements "
smart," as
they termed it. He got excited when he became earnest. He
tired his listeners and beholders.
2. The other was calm and solid as a fixed rock. Not one
waste motion escaped him. When he spoke his voice was full of
a pleasant vigour and accumulated feeling that held all listeners
spellbound. He commanded respect. When he became earnest
his calmness was so intense that it seemed a disappointment that
he should stop at all. He was never fidgety, never got excited,
never hitched and halted in his words. He won the case. Such
people are rare. How we respect a lady or gentleman who can
show such self-control !
This brings us to the consideration of dead-stillness in the
presence of others. The quiescent condition is not magnetic
stillness ;
it is always rest or stupidity, never repose. That is,
it is not called repose even if it is absolutely still or dead. There
must be the magnetic life of the live engine, with the calmness
of conscious strength ;
the power of the full-developed energy
without waste of force. When you have such vitality, not
physical but nervous, then you are ready to put dead-stillness
to practical usefulness. Look at some examples of it.
Standing before a vast mob that threatens to demolish a great
244 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
city with the growing vengeance, a nervous man calls, shouts
and gesticulates, all in vain. His wild antics exhaust themselves
upon deaf ears. Another man, his eye fixed with earnestness,
steps forward upon a balcony, looks calmly into the heart of the
assemblage, never moves a line of his face, raises his hand for
attention, and stands like a statue while the fixed gaze holds
the eyes of all the multitude. He makes no sign, expresses no
appeal with voice or glance ; shows no mark of anxiety on his
face, does nothing to ask for silence, and there he stands a
volcano of pent-up energy under absolute control ;
and it is
true that his perfect stillness gives him his magnetism. The
attitude tells the complete story of the situation ;
a man of
heroic purpose determined to become the master of that
mob.
This is life. It is also an actual incident. It tells the story
of life. What good would shouting do ? What would be the use
of frantic appeals, prayers, entreaties, threats, stormy passion
or plaintive coaxing ? How may persons would have thrown
themselves into a paroxysm of action, from the sternest
command to the most intense soliciting, in the effort to still the
mob ? Yet there was but one kind of person who could succeed
in the attempt, and that was the dead-still individual ;
one
who could gaze calmly into the angry faces and assert his
superior power. One by one they looked upon him and came
to recognize his god-like bearing ;
their voices were lost in their
eyes ; a feeling of approaching silence began to travel across the
crowd ;
it deepened ;
the man stood like a rock, yet alive to the
highest degree ;
the shouts died away ;
all was as quiet as the
grave ;
and in the hush of that solemn stillness his every word
was heard and absorbed. One man had mastered many
thousands.
A well-known business man of great coolness and magnetism,
took his accounts home one night for the purpose of looking over
them. He had a sum of money with him, of which a desperado
had knowledge. It was the hour of midnight ; stormy without
and lonely within. The man sat at his desk writing, and thought
he heard the sound of steps in the adjoining room which was
dark, although the door stood open. He was a man of mag-
netism as we have said. One of the essentials of magnetism is
coolness ;
coolness to an extraordinary degree. The person who
CALMNESS 245
gets excited, who shows fear, who trembles, who quails before
anything, is to that extent lacking in this power.
Coolness can be acquired. We have had letters from nervous
persons who have said they were incapable of becoming cool ;
and yet they conquered the fault as soon as they began to
develop magnetism. From the very fact that nervous motions
cause a rapid loss of vitality by throwing off the energy of the
body, it could at once be seen that the absence of coolness would
amount to a loss of control over another person. The man
referred to was of the combination required to cope with the
burglar. The following conversation is substantially that which
took place :
"
Come in."
The burglar resolved to kill the merchant if he resisted ;
and
although he was surprised at the announcement, he entered the
room, levelled a revolver at the head of his victim, approached
him and said :
"
I've got you."
"
Eh ?
"
" I've got you."
"
Sit down."
"
No, I won't. I'm here for business. I've got you."
"
Eh ?
"
"
You're mine. Now give up."
"
Isn't your language a little peculiar for a professional
burglar ?
"
"
Well, that's my look-out. Give me that money or you're a
dead one."
"
The money is all right. I give lots of money away without
being asked for it. I don't mind the money. I have plenty for
my own use and to give away. I don't like the tone of your
voice."
"
That's all right. Be quick now. I'm here to do a
clean job."
"
What will you do ?
"
"
I'll kill you if you move."
"
What good would it do you to kill me ? You would hang
for it."
"
Hang nothing."
By this time the merchant, who had kept his eyes fixed on
246 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
the burglar, found a slight evidence of quailing in the latter.
From that moment he was sure of the result.
"
You will certainly be hung. Do you see that button ?
"
"
Yes."
"
Do you hear the sound below ?
"
"
Police ?
"
"
Give me your revolver/'
The man is now serving a term of imprisonment.
Coolness with magnetism are sure to conquer all things ;
and
these two qualities belong together. The more of one you get
the more of the other will follow, provided the coolness is not
of the blas6, cold-blooded type of stupidity. Remember that
the engine must be alive with power.
A speaker stands on the platform delivering his speech. He
is languid, gentle, quiet, cool, collected, effeminate, weak and
yet free from nervousness. He lacks the energy of a thoroughly
live man. There are no fires in the engine ;
hence the quietude
of the body.
Another speaker stands on the platform delivering his speech.
He has vitality enough, but it leaks out at all sides. His head
beats the emphasis of his ideas just as nearly as all readers' and
speakers' heads do. His eyes are unsteady, looking in every
direction without power of expression. He steps about, shifting
his weight every minute or two, now advancing, now retiring,
now going across to the right or the left, and never standing still
very long at a time. He brings the upper half of his body
forward and bends to give emphasis to a supposedly strong idea,
doing this several times a minute. He gestures in every sort of
way, but contents himself to do finger movements in the absence
of the full-arm action whenever the thought is not weighty
enough to admit of gesticulation. Soon he has exhausted all
that stock of energy that would have gone to produce mag-
netism, and he now finds that he must make up in the physical
what he lacks in the magnetic, and he shouts and pounds.
Another speaker, the rare kind, the individual with the
greatest degree of honesty because he has the conscience to equip
himself for his profession, stands on the platform delivering his
speech. He is cool, not because he is weak, but because he
knows that great truths require all the power a man possesses to
give them full weight of utterance. He stands still. When
CALMNESS 247
there is cause for action of the whole body he steps forward
with a single movement as a stately ship might swing from her
moorings, not as a fidgety orator might jog about over the
platform. His head is not bobbing up and down, right and left,
to the rhythm of his words, as is so commonly the case with
speakers. He keeps his head erect upon his shoulders, strong,
powerful, energetic, but in perfect repose. This is what excites
the admiration of the audience.
Pew men and few women carry their heads in magnetic poise.
When weak it falls forward, or is inclined to the right or left,
or is tilted back ;
while the person of magnetism is of easier and
yet more solid poise. There is no setness, no stiffness about the
neck ; but there is firmness and certainty of carriage that
denotes the presence of power. To be still does not require that
one be stiff; the stillness of death holds that quality. We
wish the stillness of life. When the ordinary person is told to
straighten up, to remove the lines of weakness, he has no other
recourse than to the lines of hardness, and the latter is worse
than the former. Magnetism steers us clear of these extremes.
The third speaker of whom we spoke was magnetic. He had
cultivated the body and all its faculties. He knew the value of
repose, of dead-stillness, as he stood before his audience. The
vitality that another might have thrown away in useless
action he kept in storage to be dealt out as he chose. His
gestures were inclined to assume the character of attitudes, for
he presented as much versatility in his physical portrayal of his
thoughts as did any of the other speakers ;
but he preferred
the gesture of the outstretched arm and expressive position of
the hand rather than the swinging motion so common to others.
Why is it that nearly all speakers believe that motion expresses
more than attitude ? Does the blow dealt by the hand hit
anybody in a gesture ; and, if not, why are the uplifted arm and
clinched fist not more expressive of the meaning of a blow ? The
speaker seeks to illustrate this thought. He cannot reproduce
life by acting its details. He cannot fire a gun when he tells of a
killing. Repose in the attitude of description is always more
effective and far more beautiful than action that never comes to
a position of meaning.
A lawyer who holds mastery over himself at once wins respect.
He does not fly up out of his chair to shout his objection to
248 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
the judge. If the interests of his client demand that he make
objection he can always be heard, and the more dignified he is
the more likely he will be to get a full hearing. Judges admire
cool, self-possessed lawyers ; they dislike the active, nervous
fellows who try to carry everything before them as by storm.
The cool lawyer is most powerful in handling witnesses, for he
thinks more rapidly and carries more trains of thoughts than
the excitable lawyer.
The habit of walking to and fro while speaking is the result
of nervousness, and is very taxing on the vitality. It occurs
before juries and before audiences generally. Some men walk
up and down, striding from place to place as though the action
were impelled by a special degree of interest ;
but if you will
take notice of the successful, the brainy, the magnetic lawyers,
and orators generally, you will find them keeping closer to a
given spot. It is true that action arouses latent magnetism ;
but when it is aroused, it should not be wasted and thrown away
wantonly.
There is no more interesting study of human nature than
that which is devoted to watching people about you, and seeking
to apply some of the laws of life to their habits and methods
of handling themselves.
A new phase of the study of personal magnetism is called the
Comparative System. It is employed by those who wish to
make the greatest progress in the least amount of time and
with the least effort. It has been used with great success by
a number of keen-minded persons, and seems to have been
invented by a man of unusual magnetic power for his individual
advancement.
The value of the Comparative System is that it requires no
time whatever, and no practice. It is simplicity itself. All
that is needed is to watch other people, and study their various
mannerisms and defects of handling themselves ;
and compare
each action and each defect with yourself in the same line.
Thus, how does such a person sit, stand, walk, talk, move about,
exhibit unrest or lack of control, and so on ;
and what of these
defects, if any, or merits if any, do you possess, comparing
each and every detail ?
LESSON FORTY-SIX
CALM ENERGY OF POWER
OUE
NEXT STEP brings us to the consideration of
perfect calmness of body and mind while charged
with tremendous energy ;
the power to think great
thoughts and not to let them run wild with the emotions ;
the power to hold great determination and not lose any of its
force in wasted action. Can you imagine a perfect machine
that has been built for the execution of the most delicate
and at the same time the most useful movements ;
a machine
that does what it was made for, and nothing else ;
a machine
that never loses any motion in the midst of those that display
its efficiency ? Every detail of its work has a purpose behind it.
If it were permitted to perform other details, some of its
power and much of its usefulness would be wasted.
In like manner it must be remembered :
1. That there must be the energy of a strong life within.
2. That there must be no action without except what is
needed for the expression of the life within.
*~
The practice introduced in this chapter is of a mixed character.
We prefer, wherever it is possible, to use the necessary events
of the day as means of progress, rather than dry exercises. The
child that grows up to manhood or womanhood, and becomes
magnetic without practice, is in fact always practising. The
nervousness, the activity and vigour of youth are all evidences of
extra vitality with which young people are supplied ;
the excess
being intended by Nature to carry the child through the perils of
early life, for statistics as well as circumstances conspire to its
cutting off. Out of that turmoil of activity a few come to the
settled repose of stupidity which has but little life within ; and
a rare few attain magnetism by natural processes.
But how ?
Who told them that a live soul, a throbbing, pulsating life
250 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
within a body, when held compressed by the other forces,
became intensely magnetic ;
that the use of the inner power
through the controlled channels of expression increased that
magnetism ;
and that waste action or lost motions sap the
fountain and spend its wealth ?
No one ever proclaimed these things to them, perhaps, but
some genius whose presence they could not discern whispered
the secret to them ;
and they, all unconscious of the fact, became
experts in the art of self-composure. Or it may be that a keen
judgment told them that persons who cannot sit still or stand
still are less capable of impressing themselves upon their fellow-
beings than those who retain all their vigour while commanding
its use. At any rate, the person who is naturally magnetic
possesses the same traits as those who have acquired the power.
The possession has come through the same processes.
What may be practice to you is habit in another. There are
not two royal roads to the same palace in the study of mag-
netism. It is by conserving the energies of life and increasing
them that the results are attained. These things are done by
habit in one case ;
and by practice in another ;
but they are
identically the same. While the work of the present chapter
may be called practice, we are endeavouring to set it forth in
two classes :
1 . In the habit of persons who are naturally endowed with
personal magnetism.
2. In dry practice.
If you adopt the former without the latter, it will suffice,
provided you are able to make the easier and more natural
methods count as effectively as the dry practice. The latter has
the merit of being speedier and more certain.
Newly acquired habits soon become second nature.
What you decide to do regularly in the daily routine of action,
will grow upon you and soon attend to its own performance. If
it were not for this quality of the human mind, we would all be
helpless. Parts of the body may be trained to take up these
secondary habits and carry them on in many diverse ways at the
same time ;
as is specially noted in the case of the musician.
No person can play the piano until the fingers have acquired the
CALM ENERGY OF POWER 251
habit of travelling over the keys with accuracy of touch, a
thing that is impossible for may weeks or months.
By and by the ten digits of the two hands are able to perform
ten different duties, all exact, and at the rate of hundreds per
minute. Then comes the time when the habit of playing is so
weD established that the eyes need not see the keyboard ;
the
mind can measure it through the hands. The church organist
operates the many keys that are made for the hands, as well as
a number of pedals for the feet.
One of the charms of second nature is in the fact that a new
habit does not bother the mind when it is correct in its opera-
tions, but does bother the mind when in error. Here is a person
who has spoken bad grammar for years in ignorance ;
he learns
the rules of grammar, soon applies them, does so with accuracy
for weeks until he finds himself speaking correctly as a second
nature, and thereafter he has no knowledge that he is following
the rules. Being adopted into his life they demand no attention
from the mind. But here comes the wonder : When he speaks
correctly he is not aware of the fact ; yet let him make an error
and his mind will recognize it at once.
In stronger force the same law holds true when personal habits
are involved. The faulty attitude is overcome by practice and
disappears ;
if there is negligence the breach is noticed at the
time, but the continual doing of what is one's regular way is
never recognized by the doer of it. It is the error, the exception,
the break in the habit that arrests attention. When an attempt
to establish dead-stillness as a second nature has been persisted
in for a few weeks, the whole nervous system will take it up and
adopt it as a habit. Then, when some breach of this occurs, the
mind will have knowledge of it.
Dead-stillness requires perfect calmness of the mind and
emotions.
When the mind is excited, the body as its agent loses control
of itself to some extent. The emotions or feelings go much
further, for they unbalance both mind and body.
We know of nothing more important in this or in any other
study than that the mind should always be calm. Even if the
muscles must give way to their proneness to move constantly,
252 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
or the nerves twitch, the 'brain which is the engineer should
never under any impression show excitement, nor should the
emotions control the mind or body.
A calm mind is a successful mind, if the calmness is one of
strength, not exhaustion. Many little laws come into play at
this juncture ;
not broad enough to be called principles. We
will state them :
1. The muscles of the body, by constant involuntary motions,
may waste the vitality without involving the action of the mind.
2. The nerves of the body, by constant twitching, may waste
the vitality without involving the action of the mind.
3. Dead-stillness as practised in this book, will overcome
both faults and lead to the accumulation of magnetism.
4. The excitement of the mind may or may not involve the
action of the muscles or of the nerves. It generally does affect
them seriously.
5. The excitement of the emotions may or may not involve
the mind, muscles and nerves. It is almost certain to affect the
mind, unless the person is of strong magnetic self-control.
6. It is a test of power to be able to separate the thoughts
from the face.
7. It is the best test of power to be able to separate the
emotions from the mind ;
thence from the face and general
body.
8. The practice of dead-stillness as given in this book will
accomplish such results.
Napoleon could make his face like marble if he chose. He
never allowed his nearest friend or closest counsellor to know
what was passing in his mind, or what effect any news, good or
bad, really produced on him. He retained that placidity of
countenance that told nothing. Apart from his occasional
periods of anger, he was a man of dead-stillness ;
an engine of
tremendous power held in control. His magnetism was most
powerful. By it he held men of treachery under sway of his
will ;
he inspired his soldiers to deeds of frenzied heroism, and
overawed his opponents in diplomacy.
Bismarck, Gladstone and all great men have separated their
emotions from their minds, and both from muscles and nerves ;
so that passion never intrudes itself unbidden.
9. Mental and emotional excitement may be concealed by
CALM ENERGY OF POWER 253
controlling the muscles and nerves, even at times without
possessing much magnetism ;
but it requires the highest degree
of this power to prevent the voice from betraying the excite-
ment. It is dead-stillness in full earnestness.
Practise dead-stillness all day long. Use all parts of the body
that are required in the performance of any duty ;
but do not
allow a single action otherwise to escape. It will take no time.
You will be all the stronger for it. If need be, have some friend
watch you to give advice as to any escaping motions. Make
everything count.
The parent can always control the child, and without
unkindness, by the perfect power of absolute repose of all parts
of the body not needed in use ;
the steady glance, the placid
face and the calm control of mind and body. No child,
however fractious, can resist this influence if backed by the
magnetism that such calmness will generate.
The school teacher is able to control the most unruly of
scholars by the conditions just stated. We could devote
hundreds of pages to reports from teachers confirming the
irresistible force of dead-stillness when alive with magnetic
energy.
The same results are everywhere reported. There is no reason
why you should not be master of those with whom you come in
contact.
However, all such control requires tact. It is the one key of
success in life. Tact unlocks all the doors in the hearts and
pockets of your fellow-beings. It wins friendships without
ostentation, and secures wealth without wrong.
It makes but little difference how much magnetism is born
in us or later cultivated, if we have no tact we cannot suitably
use it. There are to-day living in obscurity great men and
women who need only this one power to develop them. They
have aspirations and longings for a proud career, a noble future,
but have no tact. Could we go among them and bring them out
by teaching them how to come in contact with the world, we
should find Shakespeares and Miltons, Whitefields and
Spurgeons, Websters and Clays, Garricks and Goughs, where
nowwe see but the yearning for greatness stampedupon the face.
The cultivation of tact and the cultivation of personal
magnetism go hand in hand.
LESSON FORTY-SEVEN
EXPERIMENTS
AFEW PLEASING TESTS arranged for the purpose
of hastening the progress of the student will be wel-
comed as a diversion. While they are highly beneficial
they are not very difficult unless your nerves are shattered by
bad habits or ill-health. If they are repeated a number of
times they will begin to grow easy, as has been often declared
by those who have tried them.
FIRST EXPERIMENT
Take a sheet of notepaper, neither too stiff nor too thin ;
tear
it in halves ;
hold one-half of it in the hand by placing the
thumb and two fingers at the lower corner of the paper, holding
the hand about a foot from the chest, and the elbow away from
the body. The entire arm must be free that is, must not touch
anything, nor have any means of support.
If a mirror is convenient it is well to locate some fine spot
on the glass (if it has none, place an ink spot there), and hold
the paper so that the upper opposite corner from that in the hand
shall be on an exact line with the eye and the spot on the mirror.
Hold this for twelve seconds, and note the deviation of the corner
of the paper from the spot. If there is no deviation, you are
ready to undertake the second experiment. If there is, you
should practise this until you can prevent any departure,
however slight, from the spot indicated.
SECOND EXPERIMENT
Take a large sheet of writing paper, tear it in halves, and
hold it in the same manner as in the first exercise. Persist in
practising until there is no deviation even of a hairbreadth.
Do not be discouraged if it requires patience. The left hand
EXPERIMENTS 255
may be employed about one-quarter of the time, or vice versa,
if the pupil is left-handed.
THIRD EXPERIMENT
When the last exercise has been mastered, the pupil may
take a sheet of the larger size foolscap paper, tear it in halves,
and continue as before.
FOURTH EXPERIMENT
When the third exercise has been accomplished, the pupil
may take an entire sheet of foolscap paper, and, without
tearing it, open the whole sheet and hold it by the lower corner,
having the thumb and two fingers upon as small a portion of
it as possible. The paper must be just stiff enough to stand
alone. Making a hollow curve diagonally across the centre
will aid in keeping it stiff.
Be sure that the elbow has no support and is extended from
the body.
FIFTH EXPERIMENT
Fill a large wineglass two-thirds full of water ;
take it at the
small part just above the bottom, by the thumb and first
finger only, and hold it for thirty seconds on a level with the
chin, the elbow being away from the body and the whole arm
free. The water must not shake or even tremble. Rest.
Hold it in the same way, employing the thumb and second
finger only, for thirty seconds. Rest.
Hold it in the same way, employing the thumb and third
finger only, for thirty seconds. Rest.
Hold it in the same way, employing the thumb and little
finger only, for thirty seconds. Rest.
Your patience will be sorely tried.
But after several efforts you will suddenly find yourself
mastering the experiment with unexpected ease.
These experiments will seem to make you
"
nervous
"
; you
will say that instead of making you control yourself better they
irritate and vex your nerves. So it will seem at first, and like-
wise at all times when your leakage is going on rapidly. This
256 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
apparent
"
nervousness
"
is really the rebellious leakage being
checked. It dislikes to be stopped. A "
nervous
"
person
wants to let the leakage go on until complete prostration ensues.
FIG. 1. FLOATING THE ROSE-LEAF.
There is a temporary agony in the checking of the outflow of
this vital force. While the loss is going on the person walks
and moves about, swings the feet or twitches the hands, tears
paper, fingers some button or watch chain, gets in a rocking-
EXPERIMENTS 257
chair sometimes, and shows every manner of restlessness. The
downhill grade has begun.
To check it at first is to make the person suffer. Yet the
great men and women of the world have somehow learned to
stop this waste. Those who want to achieve greatness, or even
wish to learn to control others, must endure the suffering.
In conversation with those who have been magnetic and have
been successful in life, it was learned that every one had made
some effort to check this waste of vital force. Not one knew
the principle involved, and not one had the advantage of any
guide or help ; and, stranger yet, none knew that any other
person was endeavouring to reach the same result. Such con-
versations proved that our great men and women do more for
themselves in private than the public suppose. Some of their
efforts are often simple, child-like, and even ridiculous. Yet
they accomplish great ends.
You who give up now would better cease to hope for much
in this world in the way of commanding talents.
FIG. 2. EXTENDING THE FLOATING LEAF.
17
258 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
SIXTH EXPERIMENT
Take a large wineglass (not a tumbler) even full at the top
with water. Place the bottom in the flat palm of the hand
and hold the same at arm's length. The water must not be
allowed to spill or even shake or tremble. The other hand may
be tried occasionally. Then procure the aid of a friend who
is to give you two wineglasses of water, one in each hand, the
water coming to the top and slightly rising above the edge.
Hold these in the two hands out at arm's length for thirty
seconds, without the slightest tremor or shake of the water.
You will not be able to do this at first, but perform it daily
for a month, and you will be surprised at the result. If you
give it up before the full design is effected you will yet learn
what patience is, and patience helps to overcome the erratic
action of the vital-force.
The fact that the water trembles or overflows at the top need
not discourage you. We are constantly receiving reports from
our members who have failed utterly and have given up all hope
of accomplishing anything in this practice. One says :
"
The water shakes out and spills. I can no more do that
exercise than I can jump over the moon." And we reply,
"
Oh yes, you can. The very fact that you cannot do it is
proof of the need you have of it."
No one need fail ultimately. All can do it in time. Those
who have given up completely have in most instances, come
back to the practice, drawn by the fascination of it, and they
have succeeded in the most difficult of all experiments the
great Rose Leaf Test, which is now for the first time made
public, although we have given it many times to our private
pupils. It will be presented in the next chapter.
The wineglass experiments have great value in bringing
the nerves to absolute perfection. They are tests that
never tell an untruth. The nerves may be alive, jumping,
irregular, erratic and out of normal health, while it is possible
for a person of strong will to keep all the muscles dead-still.
So we see that the present experiments reach a condition that
may always escape the previous exercises. They give smooth-
ness to the flow of the nerve-currents ; they tone down the
irritated fibre ; they do for the direct electric system of the
EXPERIMENTS 259
FIG. 3. RAISING THE FLOATING LEAF.
body what dead-still practice will do for the muscles,
ence alone can show great benefits.
Experi-
DENTISTS
Many of our pupils have been dentists. They of all persons
require not only muscular dead-stillness, but nervous dead-
stillness, and these experiments have so qualified them for
exactness of movement and delicacy of touch that their skill as
well as their income have been greatly increased. The sensitive
spot on a tooth is often very small ;
a careless or uncontrolled
movement of the hand would cause severe pain to the patient.
The dentist who allowed a drill to slip and penetrate the flesh
of the cheek, coming through on the outside of the face, would
260 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
never have had the accident had he been a student of magnet-
ism, and his patron would not now be disfigured for life. The
person of steady nerve will, if the instrument slips, not allow
it to pass an eighth of an inch in any direction.
SEVENTH EXPERIMENT
While in a large room try to follow with the steady eye a line
on a height with the head, or if there is no line, then an
imaginary one, first from left to right, and reverse. Do this
slowly fifty times each way. The eye must not move by small
muscular jerks, but very smoothly and slowly. It is not easy
to do, and to do well. Do not wink while doing it.
If outdoors, try it by following a horizontal line of mortar on
a brick building, or the joints of a wooden one.
To those to whom the object of the foregoing experiments
may not seem clear, it will be necessary to say a word :
The pupil is asked to remember that the vital-force is the life
of the body ;
from it is generated the Magnetism wliich controls
others. It is constantly being formed, and some portion of it is
constantly in motion. It propels the action of the involuntary
organs by the decree of its Maker, and without the direction of
the human will. The heart circulates
~^
attenclaTtoTilie breathing ;
and the stomach propels itself during
digestion ;
and thus the trinity of life's movements, without
each and all of which life itself would cease, may be traced to the
action of the vital-force, and through that to some power beyond.
But here the line is drawn, and one of the Principles of
Personal Magnetism is called into requisition :
"
No movement of any voluntary muscle of the human body
must be made unless directed by the will/'
The voluntary muscles are those whose motions may be
operated by the conscious being.
They should never move involuntarily.
Leakage occurs in the following ways :
1. By unsteadiness of the hands, arms or body.
2. Twitching of the eyelids, or constant winking.
3. Drumming with the fingers after the habit has been
formed, or with the feet.
4. Sighing.
EXPERIMENTS 261
5. Yawning.
6. Wakefulness.
7. Swinging the arms, hands, legs, feet, head or body.
8. Booking, after the habit has been formed.
9. Restlessness.
10. Twitching of the fingers, or any movement of any part
of the body during embarrassment, or while speaking or being
spoken to.
11. All kinds of embarrassment.
12. Awkwardness.
13. Shorter exhalations (in point of time) than inhalations.
14. Stammering and stuttering.
15. Lack of fluency in speech where it cannot be attributed
to want of words or ideas.
16. Allowing the ankle to be turned or a strain to be put
upon any muscle by an uneasy standing position. Never have
the foot on its side. Never twist the body.
Who are exempt from all these ?
The cool, determined, successful, magnetic people of the
world.
LESSON FORTY-EIGHT
STILL LIFE
OUR
course of training now leads us into new fields
of practice, although what is presented in this chapter
rests upon the previous lesson with a wide difference
in the way of tests and results. This must be clearly under-
stood at the start, and we will state that the work previously
presented has been designed for two specific missions :
1. To bring the muscles to dead-stillness while the life within
is most energetic.
2. To bring the nerves into perfect smoothness while the life
within is most energetic.
Statuary work is the combination of the two. In the practice
of muscular dead-stillness it is allowable to express life in any
form and to use any muscles that are needed. The experiments
given in the preceding chapter, called mechanical exercises, are
for the nerves alone. This distinction must always be under-
stood. Now we unite the two and produce statuary effects.
The definition of a statuary position might be one that em-
braced the power of complete imitation of a statue. To be sure
such training is properly included in other lines of culture. The
woman who was told by her husband that she was so restless
and uneasy all the time that he was constantly irritated by her
presence, did not leave home and go back to her mother ;
she
quietly studied forms of expression and learned grace and
particularly statuary attitudes. Then she was no longer rest-
less and nervous. A home that might have been broken up
and joined the long list of disasters due to incompatibility of
temper became the bulwark of love. Let husbands and wives
do everything possible to retain the home before giving up and
separating. If we have no other crown to wear, we are pleased
to know that our efforts in carrying the study of magnetism into
hpme-life have saved many men and women from the misery of
262
STILL LIFE 263
failure in marriage. We know that over ten thousand couples
are living happily together at this time, who would have been
divorced but for this very study. Husbands and wives who are
magnetic never quarrel.
This fact is easily proved.
The statuary exercises of this chapter are not difficult to
undertake. If you are capable of interest in anything you can
go through all the requirements with relish for the practice.
The fact that they are not easily mastered does not render them
uninteresting or hard to try. They are not everything in this
study, but only a part of the general structure. In many cases
to be able to perform one or two perfectly might be sufficient.
Others wish to take them right through without omissions.
As a good student studies all his life, so there must be a
constant use made of the principles involved in this chapter,
as long as the student lives. The exercises may be abandoned
in a few months after they have grown into habit, but do not
abandon the results they produce. The dead-still attitudes
concentrate the electrical or static forces, giving them an
opportunity to accumulate while Internal Energy is going,
and by a change of the static into the dynamic form of
electricity, intense Personal Magnetism is developed.
Then new habits follow.
Students have to grow into this power ; they cannot jump at
a bound. After the force has commenced to grow it can be
kept growing for many years, just as a child grows into man-
hood.
The pleasantest period of one's study of this art is when he
or she experiences the consciousness of the presence of a new
power within, the Internal Energy. We would gladly lead the
student to that happy condition by a flight to the mountain-
top, avoiding the toilsome plodding through the valley, if we
could, but we cannot. Patience is a test of character; youj
must have character enough to be patient as you go slowly
^
through the tedious drill of this chapter.
Later on we shall commence the formation of Internal
Energy. Then the two means of development will work
together. For the present we shall introduce exercises that
open the way to those that are to constitute the main practice
in this chapter.
264 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
THE PROGRESSIVE STEPS IN THE STATTTABY PERIOD
First Step Sitting Still.
The movements which lead to the sitting position and those
which lead from it are elsewhere described, together with the
principles underlying them. This exercise deals only with the
attitude of sitting.
FIRST DAY
Attach to the wall or to some object directly in front of your
chair on a height with the eyes, a watch having a second hand.
If you do not possess this article, mental counting must be
substituted ;
that is, count silently one to each second, as
nearly as may be estimated in the mind.
Sit down. Take as easy a position as possible, without
supporting the back.
1. Looking steadily at the watch (which must be on a
level with the eyes), try to avoid winking for five seconds.
Rest a few seconds.
2. On resuming you may take the mind from the winking,
and think exclusively of the fingers. Look steadily at the
watch for five seconds and be sure that no movement of the
fingers takes place. Rest a few seconds. Do not hurry, as
it will cause a loss of time and labour.
3. Resume and look steadily at the watch for ten seconds,
without allowing the eyelids to move in the slightest degree.
Rest a few seconds.
4. Resume and look steadily at the watch for ten seconds,
without allowing the fingers to move in the slightest degree.
Rest a few seconds.
5. Resume and look steadily at the watch for fifteen seconds,
eyelids dead-still as before.
SECOND DAY
The student must now rest until the next day, and then he
must repeat the foregoing five exercises.
THIRD DAY
On the third day he may continue the Dead-Still sitting
STILL LIFE 265
positions as directed below, arriving at the tenth exercise on
that day.
6. Resume and look steadily at the watch for fifteen seconds,
fingers dead-still as before.
7. Twenty seconds, eyelids dead-still.
8. Twenty seconds, fingers dead-still.
9. Thirty seconds, eyelids dead-still.
10. Thirty seconds, fingers dead-still.
FOURTH BAY
11. Thirty-five seconds, eyelids dead-still.
12. Thirty-five seconds, fingers dead-still.
13. Forty seconds, eyelids dead-still.
14. Forty seconds, fingers dead-still.
15. Fifty seconds, eyelids dead-still.
NOTE. When the eyes begin to water, continue only five
seconds after the unpleasant feeling begins. Do not keep too
long at one time on the eye movements. Judicious practice
will strengthen the eyes very much.
16. Continue in this way until you can go to eighty seconds,
fingers dead-still, and eyelids as long as possible.
17. After a few days' practice, you will be ready for this
and the next exercise.
18. Look steadily at the watch for one minute, not moving
a muscle of the body, and keeping the mind upon the feet, and
especially the toes. The extremities of the body, the fingers
and the toes, and the eyelids are the first parts to show nervous-
ness or leakage. These must be watched at all times during
the day, as well as in these exercises.
19. Look steadily at the watch for one minute, keeping the
e entire body, being sure that no motion of any
^
kind occurs in any part. This exercise should be performed
daily as long as the person lives. The good that grows out of
a long continuance of it cannot be estimated.
NOTES. All the foregoing exercises refer to the sitting posture,
the back being unsupported at the time.
It is better to have the light behind you.
266 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The watch may be four feet away unless you are near-sighted.
The following exercises will add to your stores of magnetism,
through the principle of Still Life. Practise these as oppor-
tunity permits.
Second Step Lounging, Dead-Still.
20. Take a sitting position, allowing the body to fall into a
lounging attitude of perfect ease ;
hold this position without
a movement of the fingers, toes, arms, eyelids or head.
Maintain for two minutes, watching some object steadily.
Third StepStanding, Dead-Still.
Arrange a watch, as in the first exercise, on a height with the
head and as far away as the hands can be easily seen. In
standing, allow the arms to hang at the sides as dead weights.
If all muscular tension is taken out of them they will hang easily
and properly. The weight of the entire body should be borne
on the balls of the feet, the heels merely touching the floor.
Make this position natural.
21. Stand for thirty seconds, fixing the mind upon the eyelids,
fingers and toes. Do not move any of these a hairbreadth.
22. Stand for thirty seconds, fixing the mind upon the entire
body, and draw in full and very long and deep inspirations,
exhaling when necessary, all without the slightest swaying of
the body or rocking to and fro, or movement of any voluntary
muscle. It is a good idea to keep the chest fully extended and
immovable and the shoulders down, but not back.
Do not assume an unnatural attitude.
Gradually increase these periods until you can stand for
sixty seconds under the conditions named.
23. Stand for ninety seconds dead-still, as to every voluntary
muscle of the body ;
the hands at the side ;
the second and third
fingers of the right hand touching each other very lightly ;
the
same as to the left hand; the eyes looking fixedly at some object.
This exercise is so important that it should be practised
every day during life.
Fourth Step Frozen Movements.
24. Stand for one minute with the entire body dead-still, and
the arm raised so as to allow the wrist to rest lightly against
STILL LIFE 267
the body, near the hip, and a little in front. Either arm will
do. Do not move the eyes or lids, or any muscle of the body.
25. Advance to a table, place the first finger of the hand
very lightly upon it, and look steadily for one minute at some
fixed object ;
the whole body being dead-still. As the first
inclination to move will be at the fingers, toes, eyes or eyelids,
all these points of leakage should be guarded.
This watchfulness will soon become a habit.
It is not intended to include Sunday in the practice days,
although the better habits of life should prevail at all times.
Fifth Step Statuary Positions.
The normal positions just taken are very exacting in their
requirements, and must tax the will-power of the student to
a great degree.
To stand still, however, is not sufficient. This calmness,
this repose of conscious strength, becomes the highest type of
manhood and womanhood when carried into the activities of
life. Excitement is weakness ;
calmness is strength ; energetic
repose is grandeur.
Think what all these mean.
In after years make it the chief element of your daily habits
to adopt the principles involved in these exercises. For
instance, when irritated remain perfectly calm, when nervous or
fidgety be absolutely in repose, physically and mentally. When
others address you adopt the manner of one who is not easily
embarrassed or moved by the remarks or actions of another.
Learn the art of perfect self-control. Do not be afraid to
look another in the eye ;
to remain passionless when others
are excited ;
to turn every disturbing influence into an idle
wave battering hopelessly against the strong wall of calmness
that hems in and protects that sacred essence of being, your
personality.
This is the secret of personal magnetism ;
and it is a secret
that all great men and women have acquired.
THE GREAT ROSE LEAF EXPERIMENT
This has never been published elsewhere, but the author has
for many years given it as an exercise to his most accomplished
268 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
students, and it has been the means of affording both pleasure
and gain in the control of the nerves. When done in class it is
attended by so much enthusiasm that the energy is not lacking
within. We think greater progress is made from books ; and
the expense of many^guineas Tor class lessons, or for* private
instruction, may be avoided. The present edition of this book
is intended to do away with all need of such lessons.
The Rose Leaf experiment should not be attempted until
you have graduated from the preceding stage, as time will be
lost otherwise. It consists in filling a wineglass with water,
while holding the wineglass in one hand, the arms being free
from the body. When the wineglass is full to the top, by the
law of adhesion it will hold about an eighth of an inch more.
To pour this on requires very great steadiness of nerves. Then
the wineglass must be set down upon the table and a rose leaf
FIG. 4. SWINGING THE FLOATING LEAF.
STILL LIFE 269
taken up and floated on the top of the water, without jarring
any of the latter from the glass. Thus the one hand will move
while the other is held still, and neither must be afiected by
the other. If a leaf is not easily obtainable for this test (as
would be the case in the winter-time), a piece of waxed paper
usually will do, bending up the edges to prevent it lying wholly
flat upon the water.
Now comes the test.
When all this can be done easily, the wineglass with its extra
water and rose leaf must be held out half-arm's length, or about
twelve inches in front of the chest, for one minute. Rest.
Next hold it out full-arm's length in front of the chest. Rest.
Reverse by taking the leaf away, pouring the water away,
changing hands ; then, holding the wineglass in the other
hand, fill it full as before, and extra full also, to which the
rose leaf should be added.
With hands reversed as just stated, hold the wineglass out
in front of the chest half-arm's length. Rest.
Next hold it out full arm's length for a minute in front of the
chest. Rest.
With the wineglass full as stated, and the leaf floating on top,
pass it to the other hand, then back again. In class work we
use!Tfo"];8^ one spilled the
water ; then we would begin over again.
Pio. 5. LOWERING THE FLOATING LEAP.
270 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
A very difficult task is to pass the wineglass from the hand to
the table, then from the table to the floor and back again. A
stooping position tests the smoothness of the nerves as much as
anything can do.
The wineglass is then raised to various heights and positions.
When connected with much muscular effort, these smooth-
nerve tests do not always accumulate magnetism, although they
tend that way. When associated with tensing they never fail
to develop magnetism rapidly. When done with flabby life of
the body, they are neutral, and have no value except to teach
control. When done with energy within the chest, they quickly
accumulate magnetic power. As we have said before, they are
not all.
Other helpful tests are as follows :
1. Dressing. Put on a coat or jacket without the loss of any
motion small or great. The fidgety person will have trouble in
finding the sleeve-hole, or something will hitch. Even the
buttons must go into place with ease and smoothness. Wher-
ever the coat may be in the room, lift it from its place, put arms
in the sleeves, and button it ;
all to be done smoothly and easily.
2. Shoes. Put on your shoes that lace, inserting laces in
eyelets, avoiding the loss of any motion, however small. When
this is done, unlace them. Do not use force. Every movement
must be smooth and free from hesitation.
3. Books. Take a book from a table, open it at any page
and turn ten leaves forward. Close the book, place it on the
table, and again take it up with the other hand. Open it, turn
ten pages forward ;
shut it ; open again at another place, and
turn ten pages backward. No leaf must be missed, no motion
must be lost, and every detail must count some value. This is
a very difficult thing to do successfully.
As irritability destroys magnetism, the purpose of smoothness
in the above exercises is double. There must be gentleness of
action and placidity of mind in every detail. That which would
ordinarily cause you to scold must be welcomed as a test of
your perfect self control.
DEPARTMENT OF
THE MAGNETIC VOICE
LESSON FORTY-NINE
QUALITIES THAT WIN
WHEN
ONE PERSON is said to be more magnetic
than another and thereby secures some influence or
power over the other person, there must be some
means of communication between the two in order that the
stronger personality may be conveyed and express itself. This
fact makes it necessary for us to consider how many such
means of communication exist, and what they are. We know
that all methods of conveying such influence are of wave
character ;
but the results and not the processes are of the
most importance ;
and these will claim our attention. The
recognized means of communication between human beings
are as follows :
1. The Eye.
2. The Voice.
3. The Face.
4. The Touch.
5. The Presence.
6. The Thought.
7. The Feelings.
The first of these has been very elaborately discussed in an
important Department of this book. Later on, in Lesson Forty,
the tense action of the voice was taught. At this place we will
take up the other powers of the voice, and unfold another
important method of development founded on the practical
usefulness of this means of communication between human
beings.
271
272 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Of course something cannot be evolved from nothing. For
every value in life there must be somewhere an equivalent.
Voices are trained for singing, and it is a matter of common
knowledge that they may be vastly improved for speaking and
especially for conversational uses. In addition to these
attainments, there can readily be built a number of leading
qualities, which we call magnetic for the reasons to be stated
and explained.
THE MAGNETIC VOICE
Must Please * * Attract * * Win * * Hold
" To Please." Not one voice in a thousand is pleasing. It
may even be said that not one in ten thousand is capable of
giving genuine pleasure to those who hear it. The first great
step is to find out why the voice is not pleasing, and then
ascertain the way by which it can be made a source of pleasure
to others.
" To Attract.
"
Having accomplished the first great step in
this work, the power of a pleasing voice to attract others should
next be acquired. As this has been done many times in the
past by the method taught in this book, it is certain that it can
be done again in every case where the student is determined to
achieve so great an end.
" To Win." It is our creed that there is nothing worth while
in this life unless it can win. We all wish to win the respect
of others ;
but that is not enough. Our character and person-
ality should be lovable ;
our social relations sincere and estim-
able ;
our business dealings of the highest standard ; and our
habits cleanly and pure. But, added to these traits, there should
be constant activity of the most useful kind and a steady
mental improvement. These bring social and financial success in
many lives ; yet they may fall far short of winning true success
if the voice be repellant, as it is in most men and women. There
are many instances where a magnetic voice has won the greatest
degree of success in life, in spite of almost everything else being
absent that should make a person attractive ;
because the voice
is
tjhsj^MF6^68*'
agfcnt of communication. But let a magnetic
voice be coupled witt all te other splendid traits, and success
is more than doubly assured.
QUALITIES THAT WIN 273
It is grand to win friends. It is grand to win social distinction.
But the burdens of life are many and are heavy, and it is
necessary to win the means of support, and the bank account
that shall stand between old age and want when the days of
activity are over. If, therefore, the magnetic voice can be
turned to substantial earnings, it is one of its legitimate goals.
This course of lessons shows the many and wonderfully varied
ways in which such earnings are made possible.
1. A clergyman can increase his salary and accomplish vastly
greater results in his profession.
2. A lawyer can increase his income in his office practice and
in his work before judge and jury.
3. A physician can increase his earnings and his influence
over his patients for their good.
4. All professional men of every grade and rank can attract
greater patronage and win larger earnings.
5. All business men can double in a short time their
effectiveness.
6. All clerks, salesmen and all employees who deal with
others, can rise in value to their employers and secure better
compensation.
7. Friends and social advantages are more readily won by a
magnetic voice than by any other power.
8. School teachers can add to their value by their better
control over their scholars and by their increased skill in
teaching.
" To Hold." There are persons who possess what seem like
pleasing voices, who cannot hold their power over others. There
is something in the voice that tires after a certain time. The
ability to please, to attract and to win, should be supplemented
by an e^jjring^ msignetic quality that never is lessened. This
comes best Irom draining.
A few advance thoughts will be in place here :
1. Mere sound is never pleasing. Most voices are far from
pleasant. They serve for a while as a means of communication
in business or social use, then the hearer is glad when they
cease.
2. Some voices are considered pretty and even beautiful that
soon tire the listener. Ninety-nine persons in every hundred use
18
274 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
the same part of the vocal scale when they converse. Now,
suppose you have a friend whose voice is actually rich, and she
sings always on one note ; or suppose you have a musical
instrument with the most beautiful tone ever produced, and it is
played on one note all the time ;
can your brain long endure
that sameness ?
3. A voice must not only be pleasing, but there must be
brought into it a subtle quality known as magnetism, in and
of itself. That which is magnetic is more than pleasing ;
it
must attract, win and hold. We heard a lawyer speak for an
hour, and everybody was exhausted ;
as he had tired them out,
and had weakened their vitality by the strain necessary to
follow him and understand what he had in mind. On the other
hand, we listened to another lawyer who was defending a
hopeless case of great moment, and he talked all day. There
was never a moment when any listener was tired of his voice.
He knew when he had won his case, and not till then did he
cease talking.
4. Above all, there must be naturalness in the voice. A
musical instrument is not natural, although it may have fine/
tones. The kind of magnetism that will serve on the stage, will
not do in oratory, nor will either kind do in business or social
usage. The thoroughly flexible voice responds readily of itself
to all the operations of the mind and heart, and thus it becomes
natural. Flexibility, therefore, must be acquired to a very high
degree ofefficiency ;
and the time spent in such acquisition will
be more than amply rewarded.
5. In securing perfect flexibility of voice, this faculty comes,
incidentally, in its natural gift of reproducing any sound that
can be made in nature ;
not always with the force of the latter,
but in all other respects in the exact likeness.
LESSON FIFTY
WINNING AND LOSING
MANY
INFLUENCES contribute to the making of a
winning voice ;
and many more detract from its
value. In this lesson we shall discuss both classes
of influences ;
for we can learn more by looking at what
should be avoided at times than by dealing only with the
qualities TEat^are desirable. To know what is wrong is half
the battle. Then to know how to remedy the wrong is another
step in the progress to be made ;
while the climax is reached
by the actual process of effecting the remedy.
"THE MEANING "
Cold type does not express the meaning.
It rarely does this. Any line can be rendered by some
person in an ordinary manner and seem to have but little thought
in it. Some other person will make it full of meaning. But a
man or woman with a perfectly flexible voice will make the
thought stand forth in a most amazing power, and the tones
employed may be quiet and wholly unassuming.
What does the following statement mean :
"
The man would have died if you hadn't cut his foot off."
You can read it in such a way as to make the man alive ;
or in such another way as to make him dead ;
and it certainly
is important to know which fact you desire to convey. There
is a great difference between a living man and a dead man.
Put your mind behind the words and think that the man is
alive.
Think that the operation saved his life. Think that, if the
foot had not been cut off, he would not have lived, but would
have died because the foot was left on. In so thinking, you will
do something more than emphasize the word died ;
the flexible
voice will not depend wholly on emphasis. The object point
276 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
of the voice is the word died in the reading,
"
The man would
have died if you hadn't cut his foot off." Try it fifty times or
more until you are able to read the thought that he is alive.
Now try to execute him.
This is done by the human voice. Think that the man died.
Think that he would have died anyway. Think that the
operation of removing his foot was of no avail ;
that he was
sure to die anyway ;
and that he
"
would have died if you
hadn't cut his foot off."
After making your voice perform this execution, repeat it
fifty times, always on the same man. Repetition gives a flexible
voice. If you can read the above skilfully so as to make
the man alive or dead at will, you are then well advanced on
your way to a successful attainment in this course.
If you cannot do this, then call in some friends to help
you solve the problem. But if you can do it fairly well, keep
on the practice of repeating until the meaning stands out more
and more day by day. No one is perfect in such practice.
" THE INTENTION "
In the preceding lesson we have dealt with the meaning.
Now we seek to read the purpose or intention of the thought.
Imagine yourself seated in an outer room, and that in the next
room there are two persons one a wife, the other a husband.
The wife says to the husband :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
What does she intend ?
But instead of putting it that way, she says :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
Does not the first inquiry clearly indicate that she desires
to know whether any oner is going to town to-day ? And does
not the second inquiry take it for granted that some one is
going, but is he the one ?
Instead, however, of either inquiry, suppose she had asked :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
Would not the intention
shift completely ? Someone is going, and you are the person ;
but how will you go ? The town is two miles away. Will you
walk, ride or fly ?
Another meaning is brought out in the following question :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
You sometimes go into
WINNING AND LOSING 277
the town, or as far as the town ;
and often go in that direction,
and not to the town itself.
Here is still another intention :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
This asks whether you
are going there, or elsewhere, perhaps into the country.
There are six words in the sentence. One remains to receive
attention.
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
Here the purpose shifts in
the most startling manner from the other five intentions. Is
to-day the time of your visit to town ?
The acute thinker will note that, when one word is made to
carry the idea, all the others are taken for granted. This is
a very important fact. In court a witness is held accountable
for all ideas so taken for granted; and, as every man and
woman is likely to come to the witness stand some day, it is
well to know to what extent the human voice is committing its
owner.
Thus, when the wife asks :
"
Will you ride to town to-day ?
"
she may not think that she is assuming as admitted truths all
the other facts suggested in the sentence ;
but she does so in
her form of inquiry.
If the husband were to enter the room and say to his wife,
"
I will ride to town to-day," he would know, or ought to know,
that she understands that he is going, that his visit is to be to
the town, and to-day is the time, as well as the other minor
ideas to be as stated ;
but that he will not walk, as he has
decided to ride.
Here the meaning changes with every repetition.
But the real object of this lesson is to teach you to form
the habit of expressing exactly what you have in mind.
The voice becomes natural ancf flexible by specific practice.
Thus, if you were to repeat each of the above inquiries fifty
times, or a total of three hundred times, you would find your
voice much improved in its powers of expression. What you
can do once, or a few times, is merely what you are in the
habit of doing all the time. To grow more and more expressive,
is the chief object of vocal practice. Repetition does wonders.
Great actors have been known to repeat a single line many
thousands of times, and so they have become great in so doing.
Repeat. Repeat. Repeat.
278 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
" THE PLEASING VOICE "
Not more than one voice in a thousand is pure in its
mechanical quality. Some musical instruments, by wear and
tear, develop what is called in art a mongrel tone. A dog that
is neither one thing or another in breed is a mongrel ;
and
when it is mean in its habits and nature it is known as a
mongrel cur. Such a dog does not appeal to the best tastes of
the community.
The human voice is constantly subjected to influences that
destroy its purity of quality. The singer knows, or soon comes
to know, that the everyday habits of life take the value out
of the voice ;
and so there are exercises that restore the purity
of the quality. Some musical instruments have exquisitely
beautiful tones. Some horns of gold alloy are exceedingly rich
in tone-value ; some of silver are almost as rich ;
some of brass
are more blatant ;
and so the quality follows the metal. On
the other hand, there are methods of construction that help
make the tones richer. The sounding-board of a piano has
much to do with the excellence of the sounds to be produced.
All other parts exert some influence. The instrument that
to-day attracts by its fine tones may in the course of time give
forth a sound like an "
old tin pan." The same deterioration
that takes place in a piano is certain to occur in the human
voice.
That the latter is rarely ever found in a pure quality is a
well-recognized fact.
The vocal cords are made rough and coarse by the use of
vinegar, acids, spices, tea, coffee, tobacco and alcohol. Ex-
cessive meat-eating generates a poison in the blood that reaches
the throat in its circulation.
Inhaling through the mouth is the most injurious of all
habits. It is always better to breathe in through the nose.
The outgoing breath does not affect the vocal cords. Mouth-
inhaiation bringgT dust and germs to the throat, and also chills
its walls ;
these combined influences often introducing con-
tagion into the system.
The larger the lung capacity becomes, the more readily the
vocal cords will responTTo^any method of improving them.
Therefore, deep breathing daily is necessary to voice develop-
WINNING AND LOSING 279
merit. This may be done without interfering with other duties.
You must breathe all day long, and it takes no more time to
breathe deeply than in the usual shallow manner.
"THE PURE VOICE "
If you have absorbed the lesson next preceding this, you may
go on with the work of securing a vocal quality that is called
pure. In so doing, you drive out all the accumulated roughness
and crudeness of years of growth. Just think of the value of a
musical instrument, the notes of which are clear, sweet, rich
and pure. Listen to the piano that sounds like an
"
old tin
pan
"
and compare it with the new piano every tone of which
pleases because of its mechanical purity.
A simple exercise will bring vast results.
Learn what the vowel
"
ah
"
is and how and where it is made.
We have been told that it is the most open of all sounds. This
really means that it can be readily made the most open. In
fact, it is possible to make it with the lips almost closed. It
is possible to make it on the front of the mouth, at the lips,
on the tongue or in the throat.
If you make it on the lips, your voice will not improve, for
lip sounds are never pleasing. The vocal cords are in the
throat, in what seems to be the bottom of the throat-well.
Imagine the throat to be a deep well, and that you are to
produce the sound from the lowest part of that well. Open
the mouth at the lips, at the tongue, in the middle, at the back
of the palate, and deep down in the throat. Then say
"
ah."
The latest and most approved method of voice production
is that which starts the tone in the deep throat and projects it
at the front upper teeth. This quickly leads to purity and
clearness. The process is as follows, and, if duly employed, the
results will soon be marvellous :
1. Utter the sound "
ah "
in the manner just stated, and try
to make it as clear as possible. Think of the place of origin
which is always at the bottom of the throat-well, and at the
same time think of the point of attack which is at the front
upper teeth. Keep these two locations always in mind.
Never release your attention from them.
2. Having mastered the two points as just stated, and having
280 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
made yourself capable of executing the tone as required, try
to prolong the sound of
"
ah
"
for five seconds. In doing this,
depend on the expert acuteness of your ear ;
for your ear will
tell you what character of tone your voice is producing. Your
ear is to be your mentor, your guide, your dictator ;
and you
must encourage its good work.
3. Listen to the tone you are producing. Is it getting
clearer ? If so, then prolong it for ten seconds by your watch.
4. Then prolong it for fifteen seconds.
5. Then for twenty seconds ;
and so keep on, adding five
seconds at a time until you are able to prolong a good tone for
sixty seconds in one breath.
6. When you rest, start over again with five seconds. Never,
after a rest, try to see how long you can maintain a tone,
always begin with five, then let the breath out, inhale, and go
to ten seconds, and so continue. The real progress comes in the
habit of beginning over with five seconds. It would be a waste
of time, or nearly so, to try to go a long period, say twenty or
more seconds, at the start. Build up, five seconds at a time,
and progress will be rapid.
7. The ear is to detect the growing purity of the voice. That
will soon find improvement, and then it must insist on the
continued bettering of the tone until it rings true and clear
as a flute note.
The pure voice in a man is a resonant, clear, beautiful tone,
suited to the manliness of the individual ;
while in a woman it
is free from any of the blemishes that mar a perfect voice. It is
not confined to one part of the vocal range, but sustains the
same quality in each and all of the pitches. It is sometimes at-
tained, and very speedily, by the process of elimination. This
means to first get rid of the throaty character by learning to
open the throat to its full capacity, thus allowing the tones to
come through to the front upper palate. Another fault to be
eliminated is that of unvocalized air passing through the mouth
mixed with the tones. This occurs in both speaking and sing-
ing, and is called partial aspiration. The ear can detect it and
lead to its disappearance. The nasal twang can be likewise
overcome.
LESSON FIFTY-ONE
ROUNDING THE FLAT VOICE
AVERY LITTLE CHANGE determines the difference
between the good and the bad, and often turns a losing
existence into a winning one. People who are com-
pelled to get their living by their voices, and who find them-
selves failures in all their efforts to make progress towards
success, are sometimes turned around and made to face in
an opposite direction ;
and what was repellent becomes
attractive. Flat voices under all circumstances are repellent ;
round ones are always attractive. The reason lies deep in
the meanings of Nature. Flat voices express dislike, hatred,
disapproval, suspicion and irritability, with many kindred
moods. You can readily see that such voices are not likely
to win friends, sell goods, secure contracts, or draw victories
out of efforts at any form of speaking.
" THE FLAT VOICE "
Few persons realize that the voice is either round or flat.
As the voice is produced by the vocal cords which are
located in the throat, the character of the tone must of necessity
depend on the shape of the chamber through which it is
compelled to pass ;
the throat giving that shape just as the
musical instrument determines the character of the sound
that is developed in it. A trombone emits a tone quite different
from the cornet or the flute.
By changing the shape of the throat and mouth, a nasal effect
is produced that often causes laughter or ridicule. By other
shapes the throat is made to give out a guttural growl which
disagreeable men are too often guilty of ;
or hard, distressingly
crude tones that repel. Yet these same throats may be so
shaped that in time their sounds will be pleasing and even
beautiful.
381
282 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The two great divisions of the shapes of the throat are :
1. The flat.
2. The round.
Every time you swallow, you assume a flat throat ; and, as
you swallow hundreds of times a day, you are constantly train-
ing the throat to take on its flat shape. Habits are the great
master of the voice. Nature employs the same throat for eating
as it does for singing. The act of eating is more important
than that of singing ;
but persons who live to eat, instead of
eating to live, lose much of the real pleasure of existence.
In swallowing food, it is necessary that the throat shut it
off tightly and send -it down to the stomach by a slightly
convulsive action which produces the flat shape at the location
of the vocal cords. It is this bad shape that all singers and
most speakers of ability train themselves to overcome. It
is very easily changed to the proper condition with a little
practice.
" PRACTICE ! PRACTICE !
"
It is not necessary to practise much.
Nature sets things right very quickly. Habits take a long
time to make them wrong. It is knowing how that counts.
One minute a day will keep the voice in fine shape after once
you get it so. But do not be ashamed to practise. All great
singers look after their diet, their daily habits of living, and
their little tests of vocal condition.
No great orator ever became great unless he practised.
Most of them discovered instinctively the need and the way of
practising. Demosthenes probably invented his own scheme,
but history is very clear on the point that he did spend time
in making his voice right. The same fact is shown in other
biographies, Patrick Henry made use of every empty school-
house he could find ;
and Daniel Webster, by the testimony
of Edward Everett and others, built up his voice by practice.
All the great men of this art of speaking have been willing and
glad of the opportunity to practise. It is the little men
who are above it.
Hon. Roscoe Conkling had one of the richest and most
pleasing voices we ever listened to. When he died, no one
knew the combination to the lock on his safe.
"
Did he have
ROUNDING THE FLAT VOICE 283
any favourite word ?
"
asked the expert.
"
Yes," said a
young man in the office,
"
I have often heard his voice ring
out on the word Rome, when he was alone in this room."
The word Rome furnished the key to the combination, and
the safe was quickly unlocked.
History and public as well as private biographies are full of
incidents connected with the practice indulged in by great men
to keep their voices in good shape. It pays. It even pays for
the salesman and the clerk ;
for improved voices mean better
work and more effective results. A pleasing voice, even though
quiet, draws people ;
while crude, harsh, flat voices repel them.
Add to the pleasing voice the charms of personal magnetism
and there is no better investment in the world.
14
ROME ! ROME ! ROME !
"
All natural habits are good or bad.
The drift of things, left to themselves, is to the bad.
What is called a natural gift, is an accidental drift to the
good ;
often stimulated by ambition or earnest effort.
Any drift can be cultivated. That which is cultivated, if it
coincide with a natural drift to the good, is as natural as if it
had come about of itself. True art everywhere is a cultivated
drift toward the better things ; and, the more it coincides with
Nature, the greater is the bond of union between the cultivated
and the natural gifts. In fact, that which is cultivated is far
more valuable, because it outlives the accidental drift of habits.
Between the flat voice, which is the drift to the bad, and the
round voice, which is the voice of art and cultivation, there
is as much difference as between a golden-toned piano and an
old tin box. People who meet those they seek to impress have
enough instinct to drop the flat voice and assume the round
tones in part although in small part. This proves that effort
is able to control the character of the voice even among persons
who lack all desire for culture. What has been called the
"
Sunday voice
"
in a preceding lesson, is an example of what
instinct may accomplish. The woman who would employ the
flat voice that her family hears constantly to a visitor for
whom she had great regard, would utterly fail in making
herself pleasing. She would repel.
Women often wonder why the men who attracted them before
284 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
marriage are so quickly tiresome after the honeymoon is over.
Wives maintain their
"
Sunday voices
"
for a longer period after
marriage than men do theirs ;
but it is all over sooner or later,
and the dreadful commonplaces fill all their hours together.
Once in after years the husband has the old kindness in his
manner and tones, and the wife says :
"
Harry, your voice
sounds now as it used to sound when we were engaged."
Why go through life with a flat voice ?
While habit and special effort will make it partly round at
times, art alone can fill out the full quality. Short cuts in
art are as good as long and expensive journeys.
The quickest way of reaching the round voice is to practise
with the word so constantly used by Conkling :
"
Rome !
Rome ! Rome !
"
Not he alone, but many others have
employed the same word. It was the favourite tone of David
Garrick, the greatest actor of his day.
" MAKING RAPID PROGRESS "
It is possible to do a right thing wrong.
Any person can speak the word "
Rome "
with a flat throat.
But it is such a word as will respond more quickly to the
attention of the mind than any other that can be found.
The mind and the ear should be combined ; or, in other words,
the mind should give constant attention to the ear, so that the
latter may note the right utterances. The^yoice is ready at
all times to obey the ear and mind, if both work together.
Of course a round tone is maHe by a round throat. But there
is no necessity of going through a long period of practice to
learn how to make the throat round. A "
yawn
"
will do it
at once, if a person is able to yawn or imitate the action of
yawning. The process consists in lowering the
"
Adam's
apple," or vocal box of the throat, which always goes way down
during the yawn, and rises way up during the swallow.
Yawning is not a good habit to establish, but all singing
artists have been compelled to use it to start with ; then, when
once the open throat is secured, the muscles will repeat it
afterwards as desired. If you have ever noticed any great
singer, you will at once recall the position of the throat.
Any sound of
" "
will tend to make the throat round in
shape. Any liquid word containing
"
O "
will do likewise.
ROUNDING THE FLAT VOICE 285
"
Lo "
is a liquid word. So is
"
Mow." So is
"
No." So is
"
Ro." So are words made of these consonants : as
"
More,"
"
Roar,"
"
Lower," and others. Words containing
"
M "
and
"
N "
tend to free the voice from the offensive twang called
the nasal defect,
"
R "
tends to make the tongue flexible as
it is a tongue consonant of the liquid kind. Hence there is no
word quite as good as
"
Rome "
for practice. The word
"
Roll
"
is used a great deal by actors and singers and orators
in their private practice which they carry on in their room ;
but it lacks the resonant value of
"
Rome."
It does no real good to utter the word
"
Rome "
without the
aid of the ear and the attention of the mind. The latter should
make sure that the throat is in the open position, as its first
duty, and that the sound is pure and round ;
while the ear
should note the various kinds of tone-characters produced, and
select that which is most pleasing. Friends often meet for
practice and mutual criticism, and as this is the most important
culture in human life, it should be given first place over all
other duties.
Like a beautiful flower garden that is capable of bearing
exquisite gems if kept in a condition of culture, but that goes
to rank weeds when left to itself, the voice responds to careful
attention or drifting neglect, being the agent of the mind, the
heart and the soul in their communication with humanity.
"THE UGLY FLAT TONES "
A badly shaped musical instrument will emit badly formed
and unpleasing tones. A flat throat is badly shaped for song
and speech. It is the result of natural drift. A bad disposition
accentuates the flat voice. In fact, humanity, like the canine
species, is disposed to growl at things it does not like. You
are so used to hearing the growl and snap, in various degrees,
that you pay little attention to them, although they instinc-
tively repel you when you are able to get away from them.
If you are a clerk or employee, you would prefer to work for
a man who has a kindly voice rather than for one who closes
his throat into a guttural tone. If you have read the story of
"
Christmas Carol," by Dickens, you will recall the kind of man
Scrooge was, as therein depicted. Dickens, himself, when
giving public readings, used the flat voice in very close form
286 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
for the character of Scrooge, until the change had come over
the tight-fisted man ;
then the kindly tones fell from a beauti-
fully rounded voice.
We have had many reports from gramophone records of the
utterances of men and women whose dispositions have not
been pleasant, and who have therefore developed the flat voice
in excess, which means that the throat comes closer together
in the act of speaking. These tones are very near to the
growl of a dog, which is made with a flat shape of the throat.
If you can speak as many persons about you speak, and will
take the trouble to reproduce their tones, you can carry them
into the growl without much change of throat.
When people disapprove of some act of their fellow-beings,
the throats are closed flat, and the tongue was made flat also,
thus throwing forth the tones of dislike, the same as the cat
does when it is in an ugly mood. The growl of the dog and
the hissing of the cat, are both made with flat throats, and
evince a hateful disposition at the time.
In art, the hiss in a tone is called aspiration, and the growl
is called guttural. You will hear them both, in one degree or
another, all about you. For purposes of imitation, they may
be learned and used ;
for they will help you to avoid them if
you are able to make them and drop them when you like.
But it is a good rule to never misuse the voice ; always keep
it in its pure qualities ;
and let the ear determine tlio presence
of defects. In cultivated voices for singing, the teacher first
uses his ear to detect faults ;
then tells the pupils to keep
alert in the same manner so that they instantly recognize and
avoid them.
LESSON FIFTY-TWO
MAGNETIC MODULATION
HERE
WE COME to what is considered the most
beautiful and at the same time the most effective use
of the speaking voice. In song the beauty and power
depend on the variation of notes in the musical scale, com-
bined with arrangements of time, force and other qualities, all
of which are useful in the speaking tones as well. Every
departure from a monotonous tendency in speech is a relief
to the listener ;
and when the changes suit the meanings of the
thoughts, the effect is more than doubly attractive.
" MEANING OF MODULATION "
The word modulation in speech means variation in pitch,
although it may be made to include change of force and time
in utterance.
But the chief and important meaning of modulation is
variation in the pitch of the voice.
Most persons who try to give an off-hand definition of pitch
call it force. It has no relation to loudness or softness, or any
of the uses of force, but applies wholly to range of voice, up or
down, in the musical scale. Thus a tenor has a high pitch
voice ;
and if he converses in the same general part of the scale
that he uses in singing, he will talk in a high pitch. The bass
singer generally talks in a low pitch. Those who sing in the
middle part of the vocal range, or scale, talk in the middle
pitch. It is proper to say that you pitch the voice high or low ;
but it is not proper to say that you pitch it loud or soft. In
the roof of a house the pitch is the declivity or steepness, not
the strength.
288 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
11
TIRESOME VOICES' 1
Nature gave to every man and woman a two-octave speaking
range, and even greater range than this can be cultivated, and
is cultivated year after year by thousands. Yet most men and
women use in conversation only a small part of one octave, and
generally only one note. There are millions of one-note talkers
in the world, and they wonder why they are not attractive in
business or socially.
Even a beautiful voice that is used on one note, or on only a
few, will tire. The human brain will not long endure peace-
fully the constant hammering at one kind of sound. The
nerves rebel.
If you have a fine piano and strike one key all the time, how
long will your neighbour put up with it ? One refrain has
diiven people crazy. Not long ago a man rushed out of a house
with a smoking revolver having killed a girl whfr was playing
a few bars of a strain that she had caught and sought to fix.
No mind is wholly sane and sound, and it is not difficult to
make it lose its self-control. Nature steps in and relieves the
brain from monotony by sleep in a majority of cases ;
and this
accounts for the ease with which monotonous preachers will
put a congregation into a state of slumber or close to it. But
what can be said of the calling of the man who will thus fail
in his great work ?
All about you are one-note speakers, or one-note talkers, and
they are failures. We have rescued many of them in the
past twenty-five years, and we hope that these lessons will
rescue thousands more. The human voice has the greatest
opportunity of all the faculties, and is the most used, but the
worst used.
One note is the climax of monotony ;
but even two notes will
not give relief; nor will three or four. If Nature provided
fifteen or more, let them all be developed into actual use.
Some singers who are able to exceed this range in song, talk
in a monotonous pitch when they converse, showing that the
mere possession of a large range is not enough.
MAGNETIC MODULATION 289
"RANGE OF VOICE"
The term Range of Voice is well understood to refer to the
compass or extent of pitch. This by some authors is divided
into registers, and called the Upper, Middle and Lower.
The Upper register is said to embrace the highest third of the
vocal compass of a thoroughly developed voice.
The Middle register embraces the middle third.
The Lower register the lower third.
The highest third, sometimes called the head register, in-
discriminately, is best represented by the vowel sound of E, as
in the word meet.
The middle third, sometimes called the throat register, is
best represented by the vowel sound of Ah, as A in father.
The lowest third, sometimes called the chest register, is best
represented by the vowel sound of 0, as in roll.
These divisjpns may be mental ones, at least, and will some-
what assist the pupil in practice.
The development of pitch is absolutely necessary to the
singer, and to the reader or orator it is an exceedingly valuable
acquisition. Many singing voices are developed by the exercise
of this book, yet nothing of the technique of music is here
attempted. A person may be ignorant of music and remain
so, yet understand, perform and master all these exercises.
For speaking and reading it is not necessary to preserve
minute distinctions of pitch or be musically exact.
"DEGREES OF PITCH "
Voices limited in range will not be able to make the divisions
given in this exercise ;
but persistent practice will soon show
great improvement. Those who understand music may make
the nine pitches one whole note apart, if their vocal range admits
of it, or a half note apart, if very limited in compass ;
or a note
and a half apart if the range is comparatively extensive ;
or
two whole notes apart, if possible.
Rule. Arrange the pitches so that their range, from the very
highest to the very lowest degrees, may be a little greater than
the ability of the voice to produce, and then work to produce
them perfectly.
19
290 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
THE NINE DEGREES OF PITCH
No. Description. Expressional meaning.
9 Extremely high Very excited.
8 Very high. Excited.
7 High. Enthusiastic.
6 Bather high. Bather serious.
5 Middle. Calm.
4 Bather low. Bather enthusiastic.
3 Low. Serious.
2 Very low. Very serious.
1 Extremely low. Profound.
"MEANING OF PITCH "
Every part of the vocal range has a meaning of its own,
as will be seen in the following :
QUOTATIONS FOR PRACTICE IN THE NINE DEGREES OF PITCH
No. Description. Quotation.
9 Extremely high.
"
I repeat it, sir, let it come, let it
come."
8 Very high.
"
Three millions of people armed in
the holy cause of liberty !
"
7 High.
"
The sounding aisles of the dim
woods rang."
6 Bather high.
"
With music I come from my
balmy home."
5 Middle.
"
A vision of beauty appeared on
the clouds."
4 Bather low.
"
Friends, Bomans, countrymen !
"
3 Low.
"
And this is in the night, most
glorious night !
"
2 Very low.
"
Boll on, thou deep and dark blue
ocean, roll !
"
1 Extremely low.
"
Eternity ! Thou pleasing, dread-
ful thought !
"
An extra No. 9 pitch may be made by crying
"
Boat ahoy !
"
holding the last syllable as long as can be done easily, as
"
Boat
aho y !
"
MAGNETIC MODULATION 291
An extra No. 1 pitch may be made by pronouncing the word
"
Swear "
in a deep, sepulchral tone, as described in the next
exercise.
Incessant practice in the quotations will accomplish more in
cultivating a wide and extended range than would seem
possible. The Rule must be observed strictly.
" HOW TO PRACTISE "
Some years ago a prominent man came to us, having been
sent by a famous teacher of singing ; the purpose being to
extend his range of voice. He could sing in about an octave
and a half, and the teacher had exhausted every method to
increase his range.
At the same time a politician came to us who had almost
no range at all ;
his voice being pitched on the note above
the middle, and remaining there during his entire efforts at
speaking.
To both these applicants for lessons, we gave the following
rules of practice. The singer in the course of time acquired a
full octave beyond that which he possessed when he began
the exercises in range that are given here. The politician
acquired a two-octave range, and was constantly re-elected for
sixteen years. He connected himself with our institution as
a result of his interest in the good work being done.
The practice consists in speaking, not in singing, each quota-
tion of the table in the preceding lesson.
Begin with the middle, or fifth quotation. Say the words,
"
A vision of beauty appeared on the clouds," in the easiest
pitch in which you can speak, and make it conversational in
style. Say this a number of times, always aloud, but not
loudly.
If you have a piano or musical instrument nearby, find how
many notes you have in your voice, and speak the above
quotation in the note that is about midway between the
highest and the lowest.
Then speak the next quotation below the fifth, which will be
as follows:
"
Friends, Romans, countrymen!" This should
be given in a rather serious vein, and the pitch should be
close to the middle, but not quite up to it. Follow with the
next quotation,
"
And this is in the night, most glorious night !
"
292 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
giving the words in a pitch lower than the fourth. Then
proceed to the lowest pitches in turn. After this, repeat the
fifth,
"
A vision of beauty appeared on the clouds," in the
middle part of your range, and then take the sixth, and so on
up to the top or last one, which is the ninth.
It is first necessary to establish the nine degrees of range,
then to extend them gradually as practice gives you great
security in the production of them.
" THE LOW NOTES "
The higher the pitch rises, the more vibrations there are in a
second of time. These occur at the vocal cords. The lower
the voice descends, the fewer are the vibrations. These relieve
the ear and brain of the listener ;
for which reason the magnetic
tones are more often effective in the low notes than in the high
ones.
After acquiring the number one pitch of the table of range
as given in these lessons, try to drop below that by speaking
the word "
oh "
and then the word
"
swear
"
in a still lower
note. These words suit the effort. Imagine the throat to be
a very deep well, and in that well utter the word
"
awe "
very
solemnly a number of times, trying to get it lower each time.
All three words help, but some voices respond better to one
word than to another.
THE CONVENIENT Low NOTE
In the low register of the voice there are some notes that
are weak, especially the extremely low ones.
Constant practice on the lowest note of the voice that can be
made easily will soon result in the next note below it acquiring
strength and fulness by sympathy, owing to its proximity to
the note that is being used so much.
The note next below, then, will be the
"
convenient low note.'*
This should receive the attention of the student just as soon as
it is full and strong. Remember to wait until the fulness has
come to it through sympathy, not to force it.
When the new "
convenient low note
"
has been practised for
months as its predecessor was, it in turn, by sympathy, will
cause strength and fulness to creep into the note next below,
and so on down the scale the voice will extend itself in range.
LESSON FIFTY-THREE
MODULATING MOVEMENTS
EVERY
VARIATION in the voice, whether in con-
versation or address, is a relief to the ear nerves
and brain nerves of the listeners ;
but when the varia-
tion expresses the meaning of the thought or the feeling
behind it, the effect is more than doubly pleasing and attractive.
Few persons know these facts ;
and we have never known a
man or woman who came by this practice naturally or as a
habit. Like accomplished singing, it is one of those things that
must be taught as a form of culture, producing in speaking
and in conversation what is known as the cultivated voice.
The attractive voice must be :
1. Natural.
2. Modulated.
3. Flexible.
Commonplace thoughts should not be declaimed nor rendered
in a bombastic style. When your thoughts, whether of your
own composition or coming from other sources, are common-
place, the natural style is conversational.
Very often lofty thoughts are clothed in simple forms, and
rare beauty dwells in ordinary words. We here give an example
of this complex composition ;
but nevertheless it is much more
effective and carries the impression of naturalness if rendered
in a purely conversational tone ; just as if you were in the same
studio with the artist trying to describe your mother to him.
"
Oh, if I could only make you see
The clear blue eyes, the tender smile,
The sovereign sweetness, the gentle grace,
The woman's soul, and the angel's face
That are beaming on me all the while !
I need not speak these foolish words :
Yet one word tells you all I would say :
She is my mother/'
393
294 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Commonplace thoughts may be lofty, like the foregoing ;
and
as such they may be given the dignity and value they demand,
even in ordinary conversation. In an address or recital, speech
or reading, this natural style is most agreeable and pleasing.
But it should be coloured with true feeling.
A modulated voice is one in which there is a constant de-
parture from a monotonous pitch, or avoiding too much close-
ness to one of the pitches as scheduled in the preceding lesson.
The table of the Nine Pitches furnishes the working material
for an immense amount of practice and development in many
departments of vocal training ; therefore it should be not only
well memorized but kept at hand ready for use whenever called
upon for service.
Everybody knows, either through experience or instruction,
the havoc that is wrought upon the nerves of listeners through
the lack of modulation in conversation or speech. A trained
voice is not only able to produce the needed variations, but
knows how to make them coincide with the meanings in the
thoughts and in the feelings. Wonderful as the voice is, the
power of expressing meanings in the movements of pitch is still
more wonderful. These meanings may be summed up as
follows :
UPWARD MOVEMENTS
1. Thoughts or feelings that tend towards uncontrol move
upward.
2. All forms of excited interest tend upward.
3. Tendencies to lightness or frivolity tend upward.
4. Sympathy, gentleness, tenderness and similar moods move
upward.
5. Beauty, exaltation and triumph move upward.
6. Inquiry, doubt and insincerity move upward.
7 . Weakness moves upward, including servility and obedience.
The Sound of the voice, as well as the vibration, deter-
mines the character of the thought or feeling.
DOWNWARD MOVEMENTS. The following take down-
ward modulations :
1. Decision, strength, command, conclusion.
2. Discouragement, surrender, and similar moods.
MODULATING MOVEMENTS 295
3. Sublimity of statement.
4. Disobedience and surly moods.
5. Reply and certainty of assertion.
6. Self-control.
7. Weighty and serious thoughts.
8. Superiority.
In the natural use of the voice all modulating movements
undulate, which means that, instead of a steady rise or fall, they
rise and fall back and forth on an upward movement, and
fall and rise back and forth on a downward movement. This
fact would have been discovered by any person in practising.
The following is an upward modulating movement :
"
He that formed the eye shall He not see ?
"
Begin at any part of the scale of Nine Pitches which may be
found in the preceding lesson, and rise naturally in the inquiry.
Repeat until this movement is easily made.
Here are two quotations from Hamlet :
"
Hold you the watch to-night ?
"
"
Armed, say you ?
"
Other quotations that exemplify the laws for upward
movements are as follows :
"
Dear master, I can go no further/'
"
Insects generally must lead a truly jovial life."
"
This our life, exempt from public haunt,"
"
Finds tongues in trees,"
"
Books in the running brooks,"
"
Sermons in stones."
"
And good in everything."
The first of this group depicts weakness ;
the last six depict
beauty ;
and all require a general modulation upwards, not in
steady rises but in undulations.
The next group requires falling modulations :
"
Stop, I command you."
"
Life is a shadowy, momentary dream."
"
The dizzy train reels as it swoops down the mountain."
"
Conscience does make cowards of us all."
It is not at all difficult to find quotations that meet the
requirements set forth in the early part of this lesson ;
and
it is a very excellent mental exercise for the student to do this,
as the practice will cultivate discernment.
296 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
One ofthe best examples of an undulating, modulating move-
ment is the following quotation from a speech of Patrick Henry;
and accounts of his style made by witnesses who were present
agree that he used his voice very much in the following manner :
"
Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance by lying
supinely on our backs and hugging the delusive phantom of
hope until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot ?
"
The quotation contains four divisions.
Each division is a movement upward in the following
manner approximately :
"
Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance/* start-
ing in the lowest pitches and gradually rising for about three
or four pitches.
"
By lying supinely on our backs," starting about the third
pitch and moving upward for three or four pitches.
"
And hugging the delusive phantom of hope/' starting about
the fourth pitch and moving upward for three or four pitches.
"
Until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot/ 'start-
ing at about the middle or sixth pitch, and moving upward as
high as the voice will run. Having practised these movements
many times, the final process is to blend the whole quotation
as one piece of dramatic inquiry.
Double movements are very pleasing, and can be selected
freely by any student, Here is one from Richelieu :
"
I have re-created France."
The words,
"
I have re-created," are given a decided upward
action, and the word
"
France
"
falls. This is a double move-
ment.
Perfect freedom of choice is allowed any student in making
these modulating movements, provided their meanings are sus-
tained under the laws stated in the early part of this lesson.
FLEXIBILITY consists of mental colouring and of magnetic
colouring. It impacts to the voice an inexhaustible richness
and a most exquisite beauty.
LESSON FIFTY-FOUR
MAGNETIC COLOURS OF VOICE
PERHAPS
THE MOST DELIGHTFUL and at the
same time the most satisfying of all studies in voice,
whether for conversation, reading or speaking, is
that which deals with the effort to develop changing colours
in the tones, and to recognize them as they appear. When
one tone differs from another, there is magnetism in it ;
when
you yourself can recognize the fact that one tone differs from
another, then you are conscious of the presence of magnetism ;
for no voice, except one that is magnetic is able to make its
tones change their colour.
"TONE COLOUR "
In more than ninety-nine per cent of all people, the great
defects of voice are :
1. Monotony of pitch.
2. Flatness of tone.
3. Lack of flexibility.
4. Absence of colour.
Even a beautiful voice may be uninteresting after a few
utterances.
Colour of tone is the presence of feeling in the tone.
Persons are often unable to give expression to their real
feelings from lack of colour-development in the voice. For in*
stance, a voice that has never been employed, except to express
the merest commonplaces of life, would find it impossible to
put any other colour into the nobler or more beautiful thoughts,
unless a systematic course of practice, like that given in these
lessons, should be adopted.
Without colour all expression is mechanical and artificial. It
is art without nature. Yet by the rules of art we can dive
down into the hidden recesses of Nature, and bring to the
298 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
surface her most precious secrets ; then, by practice, adopt
and wear them as our own, for they are ours by heritage.
Our purpose is to provide a series of exercises for acquiring
all the colours of the voice, by special practice, until they
become natural.
Having said this much, we now invite the student to commence
the most fascinating practice known in the art of expression.
It is well to keep a record of the number of times each colour is
repeated, for all practice counts something, even if but once
a week or month. It is only after repeated trials that the ear
begins to recognize the real colour ;
it may not be until after
hundreds of repetitions that the colour will be recognized ; but
when it comes, as come it surely will, a delicious feeling of
pleasurable satisfaction is experienced.
While these lessons are not intended to include instruction in
singing, hundreds of singers with colourless voices have applied
for them during the last twenty-five years and have been
greatly benefited by them.
All persons who speak, read, converse, or sing should develop
tone colour.
"TONE COLOUR EXERCISES "
The feelings are many, and their colours should be made to
harmonize with them. The greater number of colours you
acquire, the more magnetic will be your voice.
Some colours are easily developed. They happen to coincide
with your common moods. Others must be brought into your
voice by placing your mind and feelings in the realm of exist-
ence that the thought seems to describe or indicate. Make
no two colours alike.
(Only the words in quotation marks are to be coloured.
Colours that seem alike are quite different.)
1st Colour. Mild Determination. Colour words :
Impossible ;
cannot.
"
It is impossible, I cannot."
2nd Colour. Strong Decision. Negative. Colour word : Not.
"
I will not."
3rd Colour. Strong Decision. Affirmative. Colour words :
Will; bond.
"
I will have my bond."
MAGNETIC COLOURS OF VOICE 299
4th Colour. Surprise. Colour words : Gone ; married.
"
Gone ! to be married !
"
5th Colour. Wonder. Colour word : Wonderful.
"
Oh, a wonderful stream is the River Time !
"
6th Colour. Amazement. Colour words : There ;
look ;
steals.
"
Why, look you there !
look, how it steals away 1
"
7th Colour. Beauty. Colour words : Heaven ;
thick ;
patines ; bright gold.
"
Look, how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patines
of bright gold."
8th Colour. Grandeur. All the words are equally coloured.
"
Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll."
9th Colour. Pride. Colour words : Inch ; king.
"
Ay, every inch a king."
10th Colour. Arrogance. Colour words : Like ; myself.
"
I have no brother, I am like no brother, I am myself
alone."
llth Colour. Defiance. Colour word : Defied.
"
I tell thee, thou'rt defied."
12th Colour. Dignity, Grave. Colour words : God ;
come.
"
Sir, before God, I believe the hour has come !
"
13th Colour. Dignity, Earnest. Colour words :
This; self;
true ; any.
"
This, above all, to thine own self be true, and it must follow
as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man."
The foregoing sentiment builds a very magnetic voice.
14th Colour. Courage. Colour words : Free ;
host ;
liberty ; man.
"
Now, my brave lads, now are we free indeed ! I have a
whole host in this single arm. Death or liberty ! We shall
not leave a man of them alive !
"
15th Colour. Affection. Colour words : Wear ;
core ;
heart ;
thee.
"
Give me that man that is not passion's slave, and I will wear
him in my heart's core, ay, in my heart of hearts, as I do thee."
16th Colour. Greeting to a Friend. Colour words : Glad ;
twenty ; years.
"
Well, Tom, I'm right glad to see you ! It's twenty years
since last we met."
300 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
17th Colour. Greeting to Country. Colour words :
Crags ;
peaks ; again ; you ; still.
"
Ye crags and peaks, I'm with you once again.
I hold to you the hands you first beheld,
To show they still are free."
18th Colour. Coldness. Colour words : Unwelcome ;
extend.
"
Sir, you are unwelcome here ! I do not wish to extend our
acquaintance."
19th Colour. Indignation. Colour word : Leave.
"
You may leave this house."
20th Colour. Shame. Colour words : Shame ;
blush.
"
Oh, shame ! where is thy blush !
"
21st Colour. Anger. All the words are equally coloured.
"
What do you mean, sir !
"
22nd Colour. Caution. Colour words : Hush ; silence,
word ;
word ;
lives.
"
Hush ! Silence along the line there ! Not a word not
a word, on peril of your lives !
"
23rd Colour. Descriptive. Variable colours.
"
From dumb winter to spring in one wonderful hour,
From Nevada's white wing to creation in flower,
December at morning tossing wild in its might ;
A June without warning, and blown roses at night."
24th Colour. Faith. Colour words : Youth ; bright ;
no.
"
In the lexicon of youth, which fate reserves for a bright
manhood, there's no such word as fail."
One of the greatest actors of the last generation repeated
this 24th colour
20^00 times aloud.
25th Colour. Longing. Colour words :
Long ;
better ;
striving ;
heart ;
me ;
alone.
"
I have another life I long to meet,
Without which life my life is incomplete.
O better self, like me, art thou astray,
Striving with all thy heart to find the way
To mine ; seeking, like me, to find the breast
On which, alone, can weary heart find rest."
26th Colour. Hope. Colour words :
Hope ; angels ; away.
"
Ah, well 1 for us all some sweet hope lies,
Deeply buried from human eyes ;
MAGNETIC COLOURS OF VOICE 301
And, in the hereafter, angels may
Roll the stone from its grave away."
27th Colour. Solemnity. Colour word : Eternal.
"
Oh, thou eternal one !
"
28th Colour. Dark Intensity. All the words are equally
coloured.
"
Thou sure and firm-set earth, hear not my steps which
way they walk."
29th Colour. Sublimity.
"
But thou, most awful form, risest from forth thy silent
sea of pines, how silently ! Around thee, and above, deep is
the air, and dark, substantial, black an ebon mass. . . .
But when I look again it is thine own calm home, thy crystal
shrine, thy habitation from eternity/'
30th Colour. Contempt. Colour words : Loathe ;
scorn ;
taunt ; fight.
"
I loathe you in my bosom, I scorn you with mine eye !
And I'll taunt you with my latest breath, and fight you
till I die."
31st Colour. Threatening. Colour words :
Pray ; remorse,
accumulate.
"
If thou dost slander her, and torture me, never pray more ;
abandon all remorse ;
on horror's head horrors accumulate !
"
32nd Colour. Hate. Colour words : Hence ;
Satan ;
behind ; go ;
hate ; despise.
"
Hence ! from my sight ! Thou Satan, get behind me !
Go from my sight ! I hate and despise thee !
"
There are a few other colours such as a tragedian would use
on the stage, but they are not suited to this work.
Charles Dickens, in his readings, employed all thirty-two
colours which are given in these lessons.
When once a colour is developed in the voice, it never leaves
it, but flows naturally with the tones at all times. This
makes the voice natural and never artificial.
It can be seen at once that such a voice can never become
monotonous or repellent.
LESSON FIFTY-FIVE
VOCAL QUALITIES
FEW
PERSONS KNOW what is meant by qualities of
the voice, and still fewer persons ever make use of them.
All conversations are carried on in the same uninterest-
ing flat tones, which soon tire even those who employ them.
We now approach the study of those tones that reflect the real
soul and character behind them. The mouth and throat are
given the power to change their shape, and thereby change
the nature of the tones that are uttered. Earlier in these
lessons we learned that when the upper throat is nearly closed,
the tones are flat and guttural ;
that when the lower throat
is partly closed, the tones are threatening and pectoral.
Singers are taught to impinge their voices against the front
upper palate of the mouth, and at this place the tones are
bright and beautiful. For speaking and conversing, the tones
may be forward in the position just stated ;
or the voice may
be impinged against the middle of the palate, in which case
a different effect is produced ; and if impinged against the
soft palate, the dark or gloomy quality is made.
Then when the upper throat is open and round, another
timbre follows ;
but when the lower throat is open and round,
still another effect is produced. And so on through the entire
list of changes in the voice that reflect the soul or the character
of the speaker.
All these varieties of voice are known as TIMBRE
QUALITIES.
As you open this lesson you ask if there can be anything
more to be learned about the voice. But you will agree, ere
long, that this faculty of speech is most wonderful, most
amazing in its powers.
The end has not yet been reached.
Colour is a great thing ;
but no musical instrument can of
30*
VOCAL QUALITIES 303
itself produce colour ; although the players are able to do so
to some extent.
But the church organ is able to produce timbre qualities.
You have heard it almost sing in the beauty and ecstasy of
its tones ;
then suddenly change to the heavy roll of majesty ;
or again produce the liquid notes of birds at early morning ;
and so on, through a multitude of qualities that are summoned
by the manipulation of the many stops. The organ has
timbre qualities, but lacks tone colour.
The true character or inner life of a person shows itself in
the timbre that prevails in that person's voice. He who leads
a gloomy, solemn life, will fall into the unconscious habit of
using the dark form, and generally a low pitch. If his gloom
is mingled with sorrow or suffering, the pitch is higher, and
there is a mixture of the laryngeal timbre in the voice.
Although the dark form is perfectly natural, and is given to
the world in fact by the world's great mother, yet everybody
does not possess it. It is easily acquired by practice.
A man or woman whose life has more of happiness than of
sorrow in it, will fall into an unconscious habit of using the
bright form, and vice versa.
Daniel Webster's habitual timbre quality was orotund. He
was brought up amid the giant scenery of New Hampshire and
the grandeur of earth impressed itself on his mind and heart.
" TIMBRE MEANINGS "
The BRIGHT TIMBRE means happiness, brightness, or vitality.
It is produced by impinging the voice forward in the mouth
so that it strikes against the hard palate near the front upper
teeth.
The DARK TIMBRE means gloom or solemnity. It is made
by impinging the voice against the soft palate near the back
of the mouth.
The PURE TIMBRE means beauty. It is made with a round
shape of the throat.
The OROTUND TIMBRE means grandeur. It is made by
enlarging the whole larynx and thereby increasing the volume
of sound.
The GUTTURAL TIMBRE means hatred. It is made with the
flat shape of the throat.
304 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The NASAL TIMBRE means scorn. It is made by lessening the
resonance of the voice which seems as if the nose intervened.
The ORAL TIMBRE means weakness. It is made by mouthing
the voice, or confining the sound within the mouth with very
little vitality.
The LARYNGEAL TIMBRE means suffering. It is made at
the vocal cords and has no vitality elsewhere.
The ASPIRATE TIMBRE means something startling or secret.
It is made by a large proportion of escaping air mixed with
the voice.
The WHISPER TIMBRE means extreme secrecy or startling
importance. It is made by removing all tone from the voice,
and using only a whisper.
The PECTORAL TIMBRE means awe or deep malice. It is
made by the flat shape of the lowest part of the throat.
Just as the player of a great church organ would suit the
stops to the character of the selections played, so any person
in life should suit the Timbres to the uses made of the voice.
In business conversation the Pure Timbre is the most
attractive, and may be shaded with some slight changes in
the Bright and Dark.
In social conversation, the Bright, Dark, Pure, Orotund and
Whisper are useful, but should be tempered in good taste.
The preacher has need of the Bright, Dark, Pure, Orotund,
Pectoral, and possibly the Whisper, which is very effective
when rightly used.
The lawyer in his address to the jury has need of all the
Timbres, as has been proved in the lives of every successful
lawyer.
The actor needs exactly as many Timbres as the lawyer.
Edwin Booth was past-master of Timbre tones. The difference
between the actor and the lawyer is that the latter keeps
more closely to the conversational Timbres except when he is
depicting human character, while the actor has occasion to
depart more frequently from those Timbres when he steps
out of the merely conversational roles.
The reciter, entertainer and imitator needs all the Timbres
that are described in this lesson.
The lecturer is a social converser on a large scale.
The orator is an actor in part and needs in part of his work
VOCAL QUALITIES 305
all the Timbres. John B. Gough was the most wonderful
depicter of human character of modern times ; yet, without his
mastery of these Timbres, he would have been a mere lecturer.
The Timbres coined for him thousands of pounds, and they did
the same for Dickens, the reader of his own characters.
A Timbre is the character of the tone.
A Quality is the blend in which the Timbre is employed in
the voice.
We will include here those Qualities that are most useful in
ordinary life.
The First Quality is Bright. The Quotation is :
"
My happy heart with rapture swells."
The Second Quality is Dark. The Quotation is :
"
Her death was sadly beautiful, and her soul was borne
upon the perfume of earth's drooping lilies to the land of
flowers that never fade."
The Third Quality is Neutral. The Quotation is :
"
Though they smile in vain for what once was ours, they
are love's last gift."
The Fourth Quality is Half-Bright. The Quotation is :
"
The Rhine ! The Rhine ! Our own imperial river ! Be
glory on thy track !
"
The Fifth Quality is Half-Dark. The Quotation is :
"
One sweetly solemn thought comes to me o'er and o'er."
All the foregoing Qualities are made in the Pure Timbre mixed
with either Bright or Dark Timbres, except the Third which is
neutral ;
that is, without brightness or darkness.
The Sixth Quality is Bright Orotund. The Quotation is :
"
And the spent ship, tempest driven, on reef lies rent and
riven."
The Seventh Quality is Half-Dark Orotund. The Quotation is:
"
Through what variety of untried being, through what new
scenes and changes must we pass !
"
The Eighth Quality is Dark Orotund. The Quotation is :
"
Toll ! toll ! toll ! thou bell by billows swung !
"
The Ninth Quality is Whisper. The Quotation is :
"
Hark ! Listen !
Keep still ! Some one is coming !
"
The Tenth Quality is Aspirate. The Quotation is :
"
Thou sure and firm-set earth, hear not my steps which way
they walk !
"
20
306 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The Eleventh Quality is Bright Guttural. The Quotation is :
"
I loathe you in my bosom !
"
The Twelfth Quality is Dark Guttural. The Quotation is :
"
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, creeps in this
petty pace from day to day, to the last syllable of recorded
time."
The Thirteenth Quality is Pectoral. The Quotation is :
"
I am thy father's spirit, doomed for a certain term to walk
the night."
You can make your own colours.
In a previous lesson you were taught to make the round voice
and to remove its crudities. That produces the Pure Timbre.
Such a Timbre you must have if you would have friends. So
that much is assured, and is easy.
To produce the Orotund Timbre, merely give greater volume
of sound to the Pure voice. Make the throat cavity deeper
and larger, and that is all there is to it. So the Orotund will
be at hand in your tones very soon.
The Bright and Dark Timbres are matters of impingement,
which means that a forward throwing of the tones will brighten
the voice, and a backward throwing of the voice will darken it.
The Guttural is made by the top of the flat throat. To be
sure, the Guttural is a flat voice and is faulty ;
but hatred is a
faulty phase of character.
The Aspirate is a mixture of tone and whisper. It is a fault,
but the above remarks concerning the Guttural will apply.
The Pectoral is like the Guttural, except that it is made in
the lower throat, while the Guttural is made in the upper throat,
Very little practice will be needed to secure it in your voice if
you use the quotation given.
In fact all the quotations help very much to establish the
Qualities.
LESSON FIFTY-SIX
MIXING BEAUTIFUL COLOURS
STILL
MORE BEAUTIFUL practice is to be had in the
mixing of colours ;
for much of the work is left to the
taste and discretion of the student, and that is always
the source of the greatest progress in anything. The kind
of colouring that enters the voice through the qualities is
always allied with the use of tone colouring, of which we have
given thirty-two examples in a preceding lesson. We advise
practising them with these qualities, so that one set of values
may be mixed with another set. Both are wholly natural ;
and both are the result of life activities from which art gets its
instruction.
All artists mix their own colours.
You will remember the historic inquiry made of one great
painter by a novice who asked him what he mixed his colours
with, and the great man said,
"
You now have, or soon will have, thirteen basic qualities in
your voice, and you have been taught how to increase the
mental vitality of words by the use of glides ;
in addition to
which you have practised Tone Colour until you are able to put
your feelings into every utterance and to harmonize the feelings
of the occasion and the value of the thoughts spoken.
You can see the great need of the modulating movements, for
they compel your mind to wake up and summon all others to
listen to you. You know the necessity of Tone Colour, for a
colourless voice is as dead as the sound of a nail scraping on
glass. You do not want to present such a voice to your friends
and acquaintances.
Colour may exist without the aid of Timbres ;
but it will be
weak and of poor material. Timbres are really the instruments
through which you speak. If you had a voice like the reed
notes of an organ, you would have beauty of tone, and tliis you
307
308 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
could colour ;
but how much better it is to have more stops to
manipulate. You know how depressed the organist would feel
if he found all the grand Timbres of the organ out of use some
Sunday morning when the church was alive with interest in
his work.
The great organ becomes a group of instruments when it
employs all the Timbres which the stops bring into being. So
your voice should be made into a group of instruments by the
various Timbres which nature has given you for your develop-
ment. Hide no talents under a bushel, for it is wrong to do so.
As soon as you have built up the Timbres and have mastered
them in the Thirteen Qualities of the preceding lesson, then you
have secured a group of instruments, each distinctly different
from the others.
These are colour-mixers.
Mixing your own colours is the grandest and the most fascinat-
ing of all work in this world. The human voice is the sublime
gift of the Creator to humanity, and lifts the race to the very
pinnacle of power and supremacy. But the work of building
its many instruments is the most satisfying and the most
useful of all developing agencies in this realm of high art.
Because no one has done this to your knowledge, you are of
the belief that it is not worth doing. But some few great men
and women have accomplished these tasks, and have made
fortunes in so doing.
It is a great pleasure to mix your own colours.
You are left to your own judgment and tastes in this work.
Look over the selections herein given, then take account of
stock of what colours and Timbres you possess already in your
voice, and produce the combinations which you please. Try
different combinations on each selection.
The first offering is one that will admit of many variations
in colour and Timbre, but not of greatly marked degree.
Remember that the meaning of the Pure Timbre is Beauty, and
that the first five Qualities of the lesson devoted to them are
made up of the Pure Timbre.
The mixing of the Bright and Dark Timbres with the Pure
does not take away any of the beauty of the voice effect, but
changes the degree of brightness or vitality into a more solemn
or gloomy form of beauty.
MIXING BEAUTIFUL COLOURS 39
FIRST SELECTION
"
How beautiful this night ! The balmiest sigh,
Which vernal zephyrs breathe in evening's ear,
Were discord to the speaking quietude
That wraps this moveless scene. Heaven's ebon vaults
Studded with stars unutterably bright,
Through which the moon's unclouded grandeur rolls,
Seems like a canopy which love has spread
To curtain her sleeping world. Yon gentle hills,
Robed in a garment of untrodden snow ;
Yon darksome rocks, whence icicles depend
So stainless, that their white and glittering spires
Tinge not the moon's pure beam ; yon castled steep,
Whose banner hangeth o'er the time-worn tower
So idly, that rapt fancy deemeth it a metaphor of peace/'
SECOND SELECTION
"
MUSIC OF THE STARS
"
"
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank.
Here we will sit and let the sound of music
Creep in our ears ;
soft stillness and the night
Become the touches of sweet harmony.
Sit, Jessica. Look how the heaven
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold.
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
But in his motion like an angel sings,
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubims ;
Such harmony is in immortal souls ;
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it."
" GRAND MIXED COLOURS "
The Pure Timbre prevailed in the preceding lesson. We
now bring the Orotund into use. Its meaning is Grandeur.
You are to mix the colours to suit your own tastes and feelings.
310 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
THIRD SELECTION
"
MOUNT BLANO "
"
Hast thou a charm to stay the morning star,
In his steep course ? So long he seems to pause
On thy bald, awful head, sovereign Blanc !
The Arve and Arveiron at thy base
Rave ceaselessly ;
but thou, most awful form,
Risest from forth thy silent sea of pines
How silently ! Around thee and above
Deep is the air and dark, substantial, black,
An ebon mass. Methinks thou piercest it,
As with a wedge ! But when I look again,
It is thine own calm home, thy crystal shrine,
Thy habitation from eternity !
dread and silent Mount ! I gazed upon thee,
Till thou, still present to the bodily sense,
Didst vanish from my thought.
Entranced in prayer
1 worshipped the invisible alone."
FOURTH SELECTION
"
RICHELIEU
"
1
Then wakes the power which is the age of iron
Burst forth to curb the great and raise the low.
Mark where she stands ! Around her form I draw
The awful circle of our solemn church !
Set but a foot within that holy ground,
And on thy head yea though it wore a crown
I'd launch the curse of Rome."
FIFTH SELECTION
"
WEBSTER'S GREAT PERORATION "
"
When my eyes shall be turned to behold, for the last time,
the sun in heaven, may I not see him shining on the broken and
dishonoured fragments of a once glorious union ;
on state
dissevered, discordant, belligerent ;
on a land rent with civil
MIXING BEAUTIFUL COLOURS 3"
feuds, or drenched, it may be, with fraternal blood ! Let their
last feeble and lingering glance rather behold the gorgeous
ensign of the Republic now known and honoured throughout
the earth, still
*
full high advanced '
;
its arms and trophies
streaming in their original lustre, not a stripe erased or polluted,
nor a single star obscured ; bearing, for its motto, no such
miserable interrogatory as
c
What is all this worth ?
'
nor those
other words of delusion and folly,
'
Liberty first, and union
afterwards,' but everywhere spread all over, in characters of
living light, blazing on all its ample folds as they float over the
sea and over the land, and in every wind under the whole heaven
that other sentiment, dear to every true American heart
4
Liberty and union, now and forever, one and inseparable/
"
SIXTH SELECTION
"
SHIEL'S GREAT PERORATION "
"
Whose were the arms that drove your bayonets at Vimeiro
through the phalanxes that never reeled in the shock of war
before ? What desperate valour climbed the steeps and filled
the moats at Badajos ? All his victories should have rushed and
crowded back upon his memory, Vimeiro, Badajos, Salamanca,
Albuera, Toulouse, and, last of all, the greatest Tell me for
you were there. I appeal to the gallant soldier before me, from
whose opinions I differ, but who bears, I know, a generous heart
in an intrepid breast. Tell me, for you must needs remember,
on that day, when the destinies of mankind were trembling in
the balance, while death fell in showers ;
when the artillery of
France was levelled with a precision of the most deadly science ;
when her legions, incited by the voice, and inspired by the
example of their mighty leader, rushed again and again to the
onset ;
Tell me, if for an instant, when to hesitate for an instant
was to be lost, the
'
aliens
'
blanched ?
"
" VITAL MIXED COLOURS"
The Guttural Timbre depicts Vitality of feeling, as well as
hatred and kindred moods, all of which are really vital.
The Pectoral is a more awful form of Guttural.
While these two Timbres originate in faulty uses of the voice,
312 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
the faults in some cases are inspired by sublime censure of
the evils of life, and a purpose to expose them. Thus the
Guttural and Pectoral so common in the famed Indian Orators
whose eloquence has been of the highest order, are grand at
times in their effect on the hearers. Louis Kossuth was as
great an orator as he was a General ;
and the moving power of
his speeches was in the Guttural and Pectoral tones, highly
coloured by a fine nervous intensity.
SEVENTH SELECTION
"
VICTOR HUGO'S VITAL STYLE
"
"
A cannon which breaks its moorings on board ship becomes
abruptly some indescribable, supernatural beast. It is a
machine which transforms itself into a monster.
"
This mass runs on its wheels like billiard balls, inclines with
the rolling, plunges with the pitching, goes, comes, stops, seems
to meditate, resumes its course, shoots from one end of the ship
to the other like an arrow, whirls, steals away, evades, prances,
strikes, breaks, kills, exterminates."
EIGHTH SELECTION
"
SHAKESPEARE'S VITAL STYLE "
"
Poison be their drink,
Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest meat they taste ;
Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees,
Their sweetest prospect murdering basilisks,
Their softest couch as smart as lizard's stings,
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
And boding screech-owls make the concert full ;
All the foul terrors of dark-seated hell."
NINTH SELECTION
"
THE INDIAN'S HATRED "
Some strike for hope of booty ;
some to defend their all ;
I battle for the joy I have to see the white man fall.
MIXING BEAUTIFUL COLOURS 313
I love, among the wounded, to hear his dying moan,
And catch, while chanting at his side, the music of his groan.
You've trailed me through the forest ; you've tracked me
o'er the stream ;
And struggling through the everglades your bristling bayonets
gleam.
But I stand as should the warrior, with his rifle and his spear,
The scalp of vengeance still is red, and warns you come not
here !
"
TENTH SELECTION
"
THE GLADIATOR "
"
If ye are beasts, then stand here like fat oxen waiting for
the butcher's knife ? If ye are men, follow me ! Strike down
yon guard, gain the mountain passes, and there do bloody
work, as did your sires at old Thermopylae ! Is Sparta dead ?
Is the old Grecian spirit frozen in your veins, that you do crouch
and cower like a belaboured hound beneath his master's lash ?
comrades ! warriors ! Thracians ! if we must fight, let us
fight for ourselves, if we must slaughter, let us slaughter our
oppressors ! If we must die, let it be under the clear sky, by
the bright waters, in noble, honourable battle !
"
The world knows more of the habits of its famous men than
it does of the manner of living of the thousands who have won
successs in the private walks of life. Thus it knows to a
certainty, by reading the biographies of such men as came before
the public in their efforts to shape the destinies of nations, that
they one and all without exception build the fires of personal
magnetism in themselves by the repeating aloud of the most
stirring thoughts they could find.
Patrick Henry developed his magnetism by practising aloud
in deserted or unused schoolhouses. Edward Everett was an
incessant practiser before a mirror, using thrilling thoughts in
potent words. In his life of Daniel Webster he tells of the
latter's practice in the deep woods where he was often overheard.
LESSON FIFTY-SEVEN
RAPID MAGNETIC ADVANCEMENT
NOTHING
SO AMPLY PROVES the complex character
of humanity as the varying changes of the voice,
suiting themselves to all manner of moods and feelings,
and all kinds of intellectual activities from the lowest to the
highest adventures of speech. But there still remains a vast
field of development, intended to impart to every message from
the mind the highest service in efficiency ;
for by such means
what might possess value in ordinary form becomes a mighty
force when driven home with the utmost power of physical
magnetism, or muscular magnetism. This use of these words
must not be confounded with the bad habit of setting the
muscles for the display of mere force or noise.
"
QUICK MAGNETISM "
It does not take long to develop muscular magnetism, to fire
your nervous system with a new life, and to see for yourself
the effects of a little practice of the right kind.
The mouth, by muscular motion, makes the checks called
consonants. We wish that muscular action to be impelled with
greater energy. Deal to each check a hammer blow ;
then
another, and so continue until you have struck many blows on
one check.
If your arm is not used, it will grow soft and flabby. If
you use it in the right way, it will become strong and large,
and its muscles will harden and take on greater power. The
same is true of the muscles of the mouth that are employed in
making the vocal checks.
New energy behind them will bring development that will
aid very materially in their work of executing the tasks set
for them to do.
Take a little sentence to begin with :
"
/ will have my bond."
RAPID MAGNETIC ADVANCEMENT 315
In this sentence the word bond is very important. Now
repeat the word bond with intense energy ;
not of voice, but of
muscular touch ;
and keep on repeating it. The "
b
"
and the
"
nd "
in the word can be given a very powerful muscular
touch in the mouth, and the energy behind the utterance can be
made to grow all the time.
Keep on increasing the power of the muscular touch. This
implies more impelling energy in every repetition. You must
have your mind on the work. You must be determined to
succeed in adding more energy as you proceed. After saying
the word bond hundreds of times, then repeat the whole
sentence ;
/ will have my bond, and note the fire that comes into
the brain. This is only a beginning ;
but from the least
beginning great achievements may follow.
Take another sentence : / am determined.
Take the last word and find the dams or vocal-checks in it.
They are
u
d
"
in the beginning and in the end, and "
t
"
and
"
m "
in the middle. The "
n "
goes with the final
"
d "
Just
repeat these checks separately hundreds of times each before
uttering the whole word ;
then speak the whole word
"
deter-
mined
"
hundreds of times. Remember to impel always
increasing energy in every repetition of letter or word. Do not
become languid or indifferent. Keep the source of the power
growing stronger and stronger always. This is the secret. Then
repeat the whole sentence :
"
I am determined."
If you have read this lesson and the one preceding a few
times until you understand the manner of practice, you will
achieve results in a very short time ;
and these results will go
into every word you speak to other persons. Something will
begin to hold their attention and bring them to you.
Force of voice is never required.
In fact many men now of national fame have practised this
method in their rooms without being heard in the next rooms.
One of our students developed great magnetism in this way and
never was discovered in his practice as he omitted the vocal
tones, when other persons were present in the same room.
He pantomimed the action. This is not the best. A low,
quiet tone can be employed.
316 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
" MAGNETIC COINAGE "
It is not loudness of voice that enables a person to be
heard.
It is the coinage of sound into syllables and words.
Our life sounds are known as vowels.
Our vocal-checks or dams are known as consonants.
Every life-sound should have the full variation of mouth-
shape that the sound requires. It is possible to hold the mouth
in one position and utter the words of a sentence, so that you
think that you can hear them distinctly ;
but other persons will
not hear you clearly, and the voice is for others, not for your-
self to hear.
If the vowels have no mouth action the utterances are not
clearly made, and not easily heard. It is not sufficient that
the audience hear the sound of the voice they should hear
what is said. Language consists merely of syllables ; syllables
of vowels and consonants. One syllable differs from another
merely in the fact that different vowels and consonants are
employed, or combined differently.
If a speaker or reader with more voice than brains should
endeavour merely to make himself heard, he could do it by
shouting or yelling unintelligible sounds, as the street vendors
do ;
the voice is heard, and distressingly so. But a quiet tone,
accompanied by clear enunciation, will carry sense, in the
form of intelligible words, farther than the shouter's voice.
A strong voice is of no avail if the vowels and consonants
are not well-formed and made.
11
MAGNETIC CONSONANTS "
All the vocal checks or consonants that are worth practising
on are given here. Simply repeat them with a hard muscular
touch on each one, and with ever-increasing nervous energy
behind to propel them. Each one should be repeated hundreds
of times. But saying them will not do any good. Hammer
them. Give them intense power from the nerve-centres. Make
the mouth execute them with tremendous pressure. Drift
always into a naturalness as you proceed.
The genius is he who thinks of what he is doing ;
the mind-
wanderer does things mechanically.
RAPID MAGNETIC ADVANCEMENT 317
J?d Cribb'd, bobb'd, robb'd.
He robb'd his friend in the field.
Bdsir Cribb'dst, bobb'dst, fib'dst.
Thou fib'dst to thy best friend.
JSMs^-Gambl'dst, rambl'dst, fabl'dst.
Thou rambl'dst over the ground.
Bst Sobb'st, stubb'st, robb'st.
Sobb'st thou at such trifles ?
Dldsi Handl'dst, fondl'dst, fiddl'dst.
Fiddl'dst thou much, my friend ?
Dnd Madd'nd, wid'nd, broad'nd.
Study broad'nd and wid'nd his life
FldStifi'd, muffl'd, baffl'd.
He muffl'd the drum and stifl'd the sound.
Fst Laugh'st, quaflF'st, stuff'st.
Laugh'st thou at this ?
Fths Fifths, twelfths.
They formed by fifths.
Old Smuggl'd, wrangl'd, mangl'd.
The smuggl'd garments were mangl'd.
Gldst gurgl'dst, struggl'dst, bungl'dst.
Thou bungl'dst it.
Ost pegg'st, flogg'st, drugg'st.
Thou drugg'st and flogg'st him.
Kldst Shackl'd'st, tackl'd'st, buckl'd'st.
Buckl'd'st thou thy armour ?
Klst Encircl'st, tackl'st, buckFst.
Encird'st thou her form ?
Kndst Heark'n'dst, lik'n'dst, black'n'dst.
Thou lik'n'dst it to death.
Xnst Wak'n'st, heark'n'st, beck'n'st.
Thou heark'n'st well.
Lftr Engulfed.
The wave engulfed him.
Lfthr ^Twelfth.
Did you witness
"
Twelfth Night ?
"
LdgbdIndnlg'd, divulg'd, bilg'd.
They were indulg'd but divulg'd not.
Lps Scalps, pulps, helps.
What helps scalps I
318 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Lpst Scalp'st, help'st.
Help'st thou not ?
Ngdst Long'dst, wrong'dst, hang'dst.
Hang'dst thou innocent men ?
Ngst Bring'st, hang'st, sing'st.
Thou sing'st like a lark.
Ngths Lengths, strengths.
He was left many lengths behind.
Vst Shov'st, liv'st, prov'st.
Thou prov'st thy point.
" MAGNETIC BARRIERS "
Some persons with good voices and other excellent qualities
are sometimes placed in a bad position by the inability of
the tongue muscles to execute the mixed variety of con-
sonants that may intrude without warning. Many a fine
address has been ruined in this way.
A young man who was trying to impress a young lady
with his superior ease and polish fell into this trap that his
own tongue set for him.
Conversations meant to be serious have been turned into
ridicule by the same causes.
The trouble arises from the fact that some letters do not
allow other letters to be sounded with them without special
practice to develop flexibility of consonant muscles.
Take for example the reply made by a waiter when a young
man asked him to bring two kinds of soup for himself and
lady friends. The young man tried to order
"
Sheep soup,
shoat soup and beef soup." But he never got as far as the
first two. The waiter said," I understand. You want lamb
soup and young hog soup."
Can you say,
"
Sheep soup, shoat soup," easily and rapidly,
or at all ?
Try it aloud, and then ask your friends to try it aloud.
It will strengthen the tongue muscles.
You wish to be understood when you speak ; you cannot
afford to be misunderstood.
Then pay strict attention to clearest articulation of words,
for which the following is excellent practice.
RAPID MAGNETIC ADVANCEMENT 319
If you can speak these words readily, then increase the speed
of utterance to make them flexible.
Here are some others :
"
She stood at the gate, welcoming him in."
"
A pink trip slip."
"
A million alien minions."
"
Literally literary."
"
A shame it is to sham so, Sam."
"
Sue saw six slender saplings."
"
He twists his texts."
"
A peculiar pecuniary predicament."
"
She thrust six thousand thistles through her thumb."
11
Around the rough rocks the ragged rascals ran."
"
Beef-broth." This must be said many times with great
speed.
"
Tie tight Dick's kite."
"
Sunshine some shun."
"
Six thick thistle sticks."
"
Then thrust it through the thatch."
"
Chaste stars are not chased tars."
"
Triumphant nymphs."
"
Ghastly ghosts at sixty-six Sixsmith street."
"
The axe performs the acts."
"
All sects, regardless of sex."
"
The prow proudly plows the deep."
"
He sent back the blank black ink."
"
A knapsack strap." Say this rapidly many times at once.
In fact, the true test of flexible tongue muscles is in your
ability to read all the foregoing examples very rapidly.
While there are many valuable methods in this series of
lessons, one that should receive extra attention is that of
"
Magnetic Consonants." In a few minutes you can prove
that this line of training will develop in you the power and fire
of muscular magnetism. You will not have to wait many
minutes to see the effects of it.
Then you will find that muscular magnetism is the basis
of personal magnetism. It gives at first surprise ;
then a glow
of satisfaction ;
then a realization of a new-found power ;
then
ambition ;
then courage ;
th6n the determination to ascertain
320 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
to what ends you can carry your gifts ;
and soon you are rising
in the world far above your fellow-beings. This is the plan
and purpose of Nature. Nor is it right to hide your talents
under a bushel.
And the practice of
"
hammering consonants
"
will change
the shape of the face to such a degree that a photograph taken
before the work begins and another after it ends, will show a
decided improvement. The lips, in a few months of constant
practice, will have the fine chiseling that the sculptor aims to
give to his noblest men and women. All the muscles from
those at the forehead down to those at the chin, and from ear
to ear, are involved in this practice. If you doubt it, watch
your face in a glass when you are hammering the many con-
sonants with energy and determination to increase the nervous
power that impels them. An unused face is immobile, which
is a polite term for being stupid. This practice develops ex-
cessive mobility, adds a charm to every feature, brings solidity
in place of flabby skin, and lights up the features with an
attractiveness which halts the attention of others.
The mind is stimulated more by the voice than by any other
cause. The expressive voice lights up the face in a way that is
hard to describe. The coinage of words by every great man
or woman who has ever come in contact with the public has
been of rare power. All the consonants used by them have
been energized from the nerve centres, and found execution on
muscles that, like live wires, have burned them into the minds
of all who have listened to them.
When you find yourself acquiring a new power of making
your ideas felt by other people, this stimulus will arouse in
you a new ambition that will grow rapidly. We wish we could
show you the proofs of this fact in the lives of people who
were dire failures because of their inability to impress their
hearers ;
whose ideas could not be given living expression in
their voices ;
and who revolutionized their careers by the
mastery of this simple system.
It is Nature itself.
LESSON FIFTY-EIGHT
THE GREAT TEST
MORE
THAN A THIRD OF A CENTURY ago a
Committee was organized consisting of two Politicians,
one newspaper proprietor and a scientific investigator,
for the purpose of determining by direct observation the
actual results of the training methods employed under this
system. The Committee was in charge of the Hon. Adolph
Meyer, prior to the time when he became a Member of the
Board of Trustees of Ralston University^ which position he
held for many years and up to the time of his death. He
was a man of great ability.
Twelve men were selected from twelve walks of life ; chiefly
because of their total lack of personal magnetism. One was
an unsuccessful business man, one a lawyer who had never won
a case, one a labourer, one an unskilful dentist, one a poor
doctor, one a carpenter, one a teacher of whom it was said that
"
he would never set the world on fire/' one a clerk in govern-
ment service, one a salesman in a very modest store, one a
clerk, one a painter, and one a photographer in failing circum-
stances. Of course these selections were purposely sought,
with the intention of making the work as difficult as possible.
We had previously announced that every person of ordinary
intelligence could be made to recognize in four weeks the fact
that personal magnetism was natural to all individuals ;
that
it was latent in all ;
and that what was needed was some
instigating cause to awaken it.
We had also stated that distinct and marked evidence could
be obtained in the same four weeks of the awakening of this
power, and of its rank as the supreme gift of life ;
that it was
a part of existence ;
that it nevertheless could be amply mani-
fested in this short time ; and, finally, that the most unmagnetic
men and women might be easily brought into the possession of
21 321
322 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
this gift if they earnestly desired to do so. It was because of
the last assertion that we found ourselves about to teach this
great power to twelve really
"
hopeless cases
"
if our statements
had not been accurately made.
The Committee were told in confidence that our elementary
method by which we were able to show astounding results in a
few weeks followed our
"
Rule of Four," as we called it. Bear
in mind that this
"
Rule of Four "
is not a large part of our
System, but is a mighty one as far as it goes. It consisted of
the following steps :
1. Kill the worst forms of Leakage at once ;
for neither
magnetism nor self-control can be acquired when they exist.
2. Kill the worst forms of monotony ;
for there is nothing
so repellent in human intercourse as sameness of sound, same-
ness of voice, sameness of pitch, and sameness of colour in
spoken words.
3. Fire the mind ;
not the brain ;
nor the nerves ;
but the
mind ; by opening its portals to the reception of mental
pictures.
4. Turn the voice into a human dynamic energy, by sound-
dams.
These steps, as we have stated, are all elementary, but
necessary and effective in the highest degree.
The first session was devoted to the discovering and reducing
the worst forms of Leakage. We showed that natural mag-
netism was all the time developing of itself, and constantly
running to waste. In the next session we made clear the
offensive forms of monotony, such as sameness of tone, same-
ness of pitch, colourless voices, and one colour only when any
was used at all. The question has often been asked, why tone
colour is taught ;
and the answer is that all unmagnetic
persons have colourless voices, and these depict the character as
holding the same relation to magnetism as the spineless jelly-
fish holds to the powerful lion. These principles were made
very clear at once, and were as quickly grasped and acted
upon.
Now came the only difficult part of the work. The mind must
be fired by opening its portals to mental pictures. A mental
picture is a scene that lives in the thoughts. We selected the
historic battle between the Swiss and the Austrians at that
THEGREATTEST 3*3
stage when the latter had surrounded the former and were
advancing on them in a circle which projected spears from which
there seemed no escape. The following quotations make the
connected story when put together ;
but we used them singly
because each one presented a mental picture in itself. With
body free from Leakages, and with voice free from sameness,
each quotation was repeated fifty times, slowly and very
deliberately, with the picture fully alive in the mind.
"
All Switzerland is in the field/' Think of the little army
completely surrounded by a vast army that is advancing with
levelled spears, intent upon the complete destruction of the
Swiss. As soon as the mental picture is vividly present in
the mind, speak the words very firmly ;
and so proceed with
all the quotations :
"
She cannot fly, she will not yield, she must not die.*'
Here are three pitches : one in the middle range ;
one below
it ;
and one very low. Here are also three colours :
hopeless-
ness ;
absolute firmness ;
and solemn hope.
Be sure to give these full expression.
"
Her better fate here gives her an immortal date/'
This is a look into the future, full of bright hope.
"
Few were the numbers she could boast, but every freeman
was a host, and felt as though himself were he on whoso sole
arm hung victory. It did depend on one indeed ;
behold him
Arnold Winkelried ! Unmarked he stood amid the throng in
rumination deep and long, till you might see with sudden grace
the very thought come o'er his face ;
and by the motion of his
form anticipate the bursting storm.
'
Make way for liberty/
he cried, then ran with arms extended wide, as if his dearest
friend to clasp ;
ten spears he swept within his grasp. Swift
to the breach his comrades fly :
*
Make way for liberty/ they
cry, and through the Austrian phalanx dart as rushed the
spears through Arnold's heart, while, instantaneous as his
fall, rout, ruin, panic seized them all ;
an earthquake could
not overthrow a city with a surer blow. Thus Switzerland
again was free ;
thus death made way for liberty."
Here are not less than eighteen mental pictures, and each
one should live in the mind and be viewed as accurately as if it
were beheld openly. This is the secret of opening the mind and
awakening in it the fires of magnetism. As soon as the student
324 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
is able to see one mental picture his success is assured. In
these quotations eighteen different colours may be developed.
The fourth step in the Rule of Four is the most potent of all.
It develops dynamic power in the voice by treating all vowels
as sounds, and all consonants as dams. A consonant is a
shutting off of a vowel prior to its utterance or as soon as
uttered. A consonant may precede or end a vowel ;
it cannot
exist of itself. The sound-dams are all finals ; meaning they
all follow vowel sounds. The firm closing off of a vowel by a
consonant holds in check the magnetism of the voice. The
union of two final consonants doubles this power. The union
of three final consonants triples it. The union of four final
consonants in one ending quadruples it. Rufus Choate, prob-
ably the most magnetic man of the last century, next possibly
to Junius Brutus Booth, the actor, always before a speech spent
minutes in four-consonant endings, such as KAMSKT,
KAMSTK and others, which are too difficult for beginners.
But Choate also practised Greek words having three consonant
endings. Wilson Barrett, the most magnetic of actors,
ascribed his success in this power chiefly to consonant practice.
To our class of twelve
"
hopeless cases
"
we gave the con-
sonant combinations that attend the Department of the
Magnetic Voice in this book ;
and we personally drilled them
every day until they mastered this part of the work. To show
the value we placed on such practice, we opened each session
with unison repetition of the word, IRKUTSK, fifty times
very slowly and firmly ;
and every ten minutes we came back
to some similar practice. In a few days the muscles of the
tongue of each student began to develop great flexibility and
strength, which is an invincible combination.
At the end of four weeks all twelve men had acquired perfect
mental pictures of the scenes stated ;
had mastered their most
offensive faults : had risen to the expression of great intensity
of feeling held in perfect check and reserve power ;
and were
so clearly changed, one and all without exception, that the Com-
mittee unanimously pronounced their progress
"
astounding.
5 '
As a result the Chairman became an official of our Ralston
University ;
and took great satisfaction in following the after-
history of these twelve
"
hopeless cases." The unsuccessful
business man gradually founded a large business, rising from
THEGREATTEST 325
small beginnings. The lawyer who had never won a case
acquired slowly but surely a large practice. The unskilled
dentist won success in his profession. The poor doctor bade
farewell to his poverty. The carpenter became a contractor
and builder. The teacher obtained an appointment as
Inspector of Schools, after a few years. The clerk in the
government service was made Superintendent in his own
division. The painter became a master contractor. The
salesman established a business of his own. The clerk suc-
ceeded to the ownership of the business in the course of time.
The labourer became a builder and contractor. And the
photographer, the last we heard from him, was at the head of
a business syndicate.
The important fact that stands out in these histories is that
there comes a time in the affairs of men, and women too, when
failure can be combated and success secured by the development
of the natural gifts that are stored away in every individual
life ;
and that, instead of long and weary years of practice, the
maximum amount of progress can be achieved with the
minimum amount of work. Of course nothing comes of itself
in this world.
We depend largely on the formation of mental pictures ;
but mental pictures are the glory of genius ;
and the difference
between the power to see mental pictures within the mind,
and not to see them, is now, always has been, and always
will be, the difference between common clay and the noblest
human achievement.
It has always been the chief pleasure of the author to take
in hand those men and women who are regarded by their fellow-
beings as
"
worthless cases," meaning merely that they are
in fixed ruts in life arid are incapable of rising in the world.
All that the author has required is that each one should be in
earnest, and should be endowed with a fair share of good
sense, or practical intelligence ; something to build on. The
result has also been that every one of these cases has been
successful, and such persons have risen to prominence.
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
LESSON FIFTY-NINE
THE TWO MINDS
WE
NOW MUST FACE LIFE itself, and enter into the
myriad associations that are involved in the endeavour
to make use of the teachings of this book as far as
they have proceeded. There is too much teaching and too
little learning in the world. Teaching pours into the mind
the facts and principles of things ; learning adopts them ;
education uses them. In the study of personal magnetism,
when our first book appeared more than forty years ago, there
were no others on the subject in existence. We were the first.
Since then, there have been a few works on the same subject,
but for the most part they have been books of advice ;
all of
which has been good,
But advice is easy to give and hard to adopt.
Such books have told their readers that in order to acquire
personal magnetism, they must be pleasant, agreeable, neat,
polite, generous, sympathetic, honest, truthful, on time, active,
helpful, of good habits, and so on without limit. In fact nothing
that was good was overlooked. While all the pleasing qualities
that exist are sure to make a person attractive and useful to
others ; they do not make others useful to such person. The
agreeable man who is generous, is helping others to use him ;
the man with personal magnetism uses others to help him ;
thus reversing the situation. This is an important distinction.
Of course we shall teach every good quality, but not as an
^encyL^m^rely for jgomebody else to take advantage of Jt ;
reciprocity isjairer and always means a square deal.
Before proceeding further, let us stand face to face with the
326
THE TWO MINDS 3*7
exact purposes of this study. We will not mince words, nor
beat about the bush. We intend that our students shall be
divided into two classes :
1. Those who are willing and eager to follow our advice
to read carefully and slowly every word of the book twice.
This is Class One ;
or the First Class.
2. Those who some time in the future may read the book
in the manner stated, or may not feel inclined to do so. They
include from five to fifteen per cent of the persons who receive
the book ; they read it once, and then loiter along the byways
of life.
Having separated the readers into the two classes, we then
deal with those of Class One ;
and we set for them the goal
of 100 Per Cent of Progress in the acquisition of this power.
ONE HUNDRED PER CENT is reached when :
1. Financial independence is attained or assured.
2. Perfect respect and confidence from others are won.
3. Mastery over all the affairs of life in every department
of existence is acquired.
No person needs more in this world. Few have obtained as
much. But the goal is not difficult to any one who is in earnest ;
and the course is pleasant all along the way. Sugar-coated
pills are alluring to the taste. Our lessons are all sugar-coated ;
they are not only interesting, but fascinating. More than this,
every lesson is loaded to the muzzle with benefits that reach
every department of life ;
and if you do not wish them for
the purposes of gain and advantage, you cannot afford to omit
them for the wonders they will accomplish in other ways.
Not one is wasted. Your improvement begins at the start,
and never ceases until you die, going on even after the last
lesson has been studied. No other line of training or instruc-
tion in the world produces such results.
Before going ahead, let us review briefly what has gone before.
The Department of Magnetic Sources is very helpful and
inspiring.
The Department of Mental Magnitude finds you facing in the
wrong direction. It turns you completely about, and faces you
forward ; after which it makes all the difference in the world
what you do or how you do it. You cannot go wrong when
you are facing right. Nor does it make so much difference
328 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
how fast or by what means you are travelling ;
if you are facing
right, you are going on. The man or woman who masters
Lessons 12 and 13, is already far to the front of the human
throng ;
and these lessons are very easy to master.
The Department of the Magnetic Eye is so valuable that,
if it were possible to place a cash equivalent against it, the
amount would be surprising. We read books by interpreting
their words into ideas. Here we read faces like open books.
Take this Department into your evening half-hour of thought
and study ;
read one lesson each evening ;
think of the vast
wealth of opportunity that is placed within your reach ; carry
the knowledge into the affairs of the morrow ;
and note your
growth in self-conscious power.
The next Department, that of Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism, gives you daily work to do. You will not omit it.
The Department of Magnetic Health is of the greatest
importance to every person regardless of having an interest in
this study ;
for it will effect changes from ill conditions to
those of the perfect enjoyment of life with body, mind and
nerves freed from every malady and danger that now brings
weakness and loss of vitality which are serious deterrents in
the efforts to win success. These lessons have a value in
excess of the cost of the book a thousand times over.
The Department of Tension Energy is the crossing of the
fine from the prevailing conditions of drifting that sweep
people along a common current to nowhere in particular, over
to the side of aroused activity and awakened purpose. The
fires of purpose are lighted and existence begins anew. As
a method of building an enormous vitality, it has no equal,
and there is nothing that can take its place.
The Department of Repose is like entering a garden in which
all the beautiful attractions of Nature abound. The calmness
of still life supercharged with living power enthralls the scene
with the exquisite loveliness of mind and heart. Centuries ago
there were no gentlemen, no gentle-women, no gentle folks ;
all
humanity were physically coarse. Then a division was made
when it was seen that here and there refinement of manner
appeared, self-control asserted itself, and a calm and attractive
demeanour compelled admiration and obeisance. Now a still
further advance is developing these qualities in higher degree,
THETWOMINDS 3^9
This line of training alone embraces the greatest attractions
in life ;
and its advantages are so valuable that it should be
given precedence over all others.
The Department of the Magnetic Voice is a complete world
in itself. It is through the voice that most people influence
their followers and associates ;
for the one distinguishing endow-
ment of humanity as the head of the animal kingdom is the
power of articulative speech. The system which we present
here has been taught for forty years in private schools, colleges,
academies and seminaries as the best method known for the
development of the voice in speech and conversation, and in
all uses, where all the rich and beautiful qualities of tone and
expression were sought. It has a substantial and practical
value in every phase of human activities ;
and especially in
business, professional and social life.
While you have been developing the new wealth offered in
these Departments, another process has been going on ;
and one
of which you will by this time have found some recognition.
This process was first made evident to you when you had
finished the study of Mental Magnitude and its Regime as
taught in the twelfth and thirteenth lessons ;
and had passed
successfully through the Department of Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism. It was further unfolded in the Departments of
Magnetic Health, Tension, Energy and Repose ;
and confirmed
in the new powers of speech that were taught in the Depart-
ment of Magnetic Voice where the soul spoke through the rich
colourings of sound and tone in which the thoughts and feelings
of other beings were engrafted on the heart and mind of the
student. Then that other process became a reality and revealed
the fact that in each human being there exist
TWO MINDS :
1. The Physical Mind.
2. The Magnetic Mind.
LESSON SIXTY
THE MAGNETIC MIND
OUR
USE OF THE TERM, the Two Minds, is made
applicable to this study. In other works various names
are given by scientists and writers to these same minds.
For many years there has been a persistent reference by
scholarly investigators to what is often termed the subcon-
scious faculty, as a mind wholly apart and entirely different
from the so-called workaday mind. In all leading institu-
tions of learning, the subject of psychology is now taught as a
branch of the highest importance ;
some claiming that it
controls all human activities, and makes for success or failure
depending on the uses derived from it. Experiments and the
after-history of graduates prove that all opportunities for ad-
vancement in the world are swayed inevitably by the influence
of this power ; and, to the surprise of investigators, every test
has shown conclusively that there is a mind wholly different
from that hitherto known as the thinking function of the
brain ;
that there is a life embedded in human existence that
is endowed with powers that cannot be explained by any
human standards.
No one name can describe properly this other mind.
It is not a faculty of a single character, but a collection of
faculties ;
one of which is subconscious, and hence this term
has been applied to it as an inclusive one. Some years ago
a very able writer issued a small book entitled a scientific
demonstration of the existence of an immortal life within
man, based solely on proofs of the presence of this other
mind ;
and to fall in with the accepted usage he employed
the name subconscious faculty. In some hospitals, the
same term is used by doctors and surgeons in their cura-
tive experiments ;
and thousands of remarkable cures have
330
THE MAGNETIC MIND 331
been effected through a recognition of the powers of this
faculty.
1
The Physical Mind that is mentioned in the last page of the
preceding lesson is that which is generally understood as the
entire conscious thinking faculty in all its divisions, including
its sensations, its intelligence, its memory, and its power of
reasoning. Writers and teachers allude to it as the conscious
mind ;
also the working mind ;
also the thinking as well as the
automatic mind ;
to distinguish it from the subconscious
faculty.
The Magnetic Mind is connected with that other mental
world of which the subconscious faculty is only a part, and
with it forms a group of activities such as those of the genius,
of the inventor, of the poet, of the great dramatists, of the
leaders in all onward movements, and of the inspired writers
of the past. History presents in countless ways the efforts of
such genius to break through the wall that separates the natural
from the supernatural powers of life. But that which was once
supposed to belong to the realm of the supernatural has been
found to be a part of the plan of Nature ; just as the belief
in the occult warnings of eclipses and earthquakes has melted
into modern knowledge. So in time it will be learned that
there is no supernatural world ;
but that all existence is
wedded together.
The Magnetic Mind contains three powers :
1. The Truth-Teller.
2. The Ideal-Maker.
3. Mental Determination.
The Truth-Teller is a double-power. It is able to discern
the truth of the future by applying the experiences of the past.
It is also able to take advantage of its faculty of discernment
by possessing the ability to accept the truth of the future as
though it had actually already occurred, thus avoiding the
reefs and dangerous shoals that are wrecking most lives and
neutralizing the brilliant victories of personal magnetism.
The Ideal-Maker creates in fact the individual that is sought.
1
NOTE. Any person who wishes to be made familiar with the sources
of proofs of the nature, activities and powers of this supernatural faculty,
may address enquiries to the Publishers of this book.
332 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
In early youth, and sometimes far into middle life, men and
women build castles in the air. Blood and brain and heart
convert their inmost wishes into seeming realities ;
and it has
been aptly said that if these castles could only become material
facts, the world would be a beautiful place in which to live.
The Ideal-Maker does not deal in masonry or concrete struc-
tures, but creates a person and a personality that represent the
highest type of existence on this little planet, and then leads
the way to their realization. Measurements are taken, not of
the individual, but of the idealized person and personality, and
the power of the Magnetic Mind draws and lifts up to these
standards the being for whom they are intended. We shall see.
Mental Determination furnishes the best example of the
difference between the Physical Mind and the Magnetic Mind.
The latter is able to accomplish anything ;
but the Physical
Mind succeeds only as far as it has free advance or can break
down the barriers that stand in its way. In the Department of
Tension Energy we saw that the habit of setting the muscles
was a detriment to the cultivation of magnetism. So the habit
of setting the mind is a detriment in another form. Luckily
the Magnetic Mind cannot act in that way ;
for what is known
herein as Mental Determination is the opposite of setness ;
it
is movement.
This is the greatest force in life.
There is power in a locomotive that stands on the track of
a great artery of travel, but that does not move. In like manner
there is power in the obstinate person who conceives a fixed
idea, and who stands by it with all steam up. But he does not
get anywhere. The world moves past him. Progress finds him
there still, and still there. When the great machine is given
the open valve, it moves and goes on into the world of action.
It sees life, participates in it, and becomes a part of it. In like
manner, Mental Determination is power in motion.
It has a goal, and it moves towards it by the process of
action, not of belief or fixedness of position.
All sorts of causes operate to set the Physical Mind or work-
ing consciousness in fixed positions or fixed ideas. Disease is
a frequent cause. Old age, in which the brain cells ossify or
harden and destroy their flexibility, is a very frequent cause,
and does not wait for the arrival of decrepitude in a majority
THE MAGNETIC MIND 333
of cases ;
for this organ may begin to lose its flexibility even
when a person is in the teens or twenties. One-way thinking
and one-way believing partly paralyse its powers to see or
accept anything that challenges such thinking or belief.
The non-flexible or set mind is rarely ever able to attain that
fullness of magnetism that wins success or draws friends or
worthy companions.
In our journeys among people of all ranks and grades of
achievement in life, we have never yet found any man or woman
whose mind had become set in lines of thinking or believing
who was magnetic, or who had any genuine friends. Some there
were who had acquired wealth and power, before whom others
fawned to their faces, and sneered behind their backs ;
and
whose so-called closestjricnds were posers of convenience.
Obstinacy is merely an acute form of the set mind.
As long as the majority of the people are fools, so long will
the world be full of setness of minds and sctness of existence ;
of friendless and unpitied men and women barricading their
miserable selves within tho hides of mules and waiting for death
to make somebody sorry. They cannot help themselves, nor
their condition. All we can say is that if you belong to the
class of persons who cannot extricate themselves from the
inability of flexible thinking, or if you are of the kind that
grip an idea and hang to it like a dog to a rag, you can make
no progress in this study beyond what you have already
attained.
The Magnetic Mind is open ;
wide open ; open always to the
Truth ;
it never closes itself against facts ;
it never sets itself
to an unalterable belief, for it believes what it knows and ex-
periences. It, however, gets nearer the truth, for it is always
nearer the sources of the truth, than the Physical Mind. The
latter is the accumulation of earthly experiences beginning at
birth, and including all that can be remembered since then.
The Magnetic Mind has its sources of knowledge from the
opposite direction.
It cannot be said that persons who set their minds in a fixed
belief and purpose, although as a rule devoid of magnetism,
cannot acquire some of this power ;
but they cannot reach
the heights. They, in the first place, do not understand the
difference between setting their minds to a fixed purpose, which
334 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
is always praiseworthy if the purpose is worthy, and setting
it to a flexible purpose which bends always to the Truth and
to the presentation of facts. This distinction is hard to grasp.
But it is the alternative of no magnetism and failure on the
one hand, and uniform success on the other hand.
A flexible purpose that moves in the right direction is
magnetic.
A fixed purpose that closes the mind is never magnetic.
Take the old illustration of the college seeking to impress on
the intellects of its law students the methods of getting proper
testimony before a jury when balked by the laws of evidence.
The professor speaks of a table that is to be moved through a
doorway to the next room. The first attempt is to force it
through lengthwise ;
but as the door is less than three feet in
the opening and the table is four feet long, the task seems
impossible. Having seen the futility of the effort in this way,
the table is then turned so that the end may be pushed through
the doorway ;
but as the width is a full three feet, and the
opening at the door slightly less, the table still remains in the
first room. Now comes the application of the law of flexibility.
The table is laid on its side ;
two legs are worked through, then
the body, and finally the two remaining legs, and it is in the
next room.
Taking this example only as an illustration, the obstinate
mind in life would persist in trying to force the table through
the doorway with the broadside facing it ;
and would sit down
and stay there set in mind and purpose. Life is made up of
countless such cases. The Magnetic Mind retains its flexibility
in all things ;
suits all the activities of existence to conditions
that must be met, and meets them in the best way possible.
In other words, it moulds its efforts to the necessities that arise,
changes its methods without changing its direction, and often
stoops to conquer without abandoning its purpose.
One of the most beautiful characteristics of the Magnetic
Mind is its habit of sending out tentacles of thought in order
to draw in new influences that arise from contact with other
persons, analysing them, and, if found to possess new values,
to absorb them ;
otherwise to discard them as having been
found wanting.
LESSON SIXTY-ONE
THE TRUTH-TELLER
AREVIEW OF THE PRECEDING LESSON will
disclose the following summary of that power of the
Magnetic Mind that is called the Truth-Teller. It is
double. On the one hand it is able to discern the truth of
the future by applying the experiences of the past. On the
other hand it is able to take advantage of its faculty of dis-
cernment by possessing the ability to accept the truth of the
future as though it had actually already occurred ;
thus
avoiding the reefs and dangerous shoals that are wrecking
most lives, and neutralizing the brilliant victories of personal
JThere
are more reefs and dangerous shoals in marriage than\
in any otKer institution of life ; \ yet, despite opinions to the
contrary, they are not hidden, but lie in full sight just below
the surface of the shining waters. The victims look afar off
and do not see them ; or, being told of them, they say,
"
Even
if so, in our case they will not bring harm." The Physical
Mind is swayed by the Four Appetites, or one or more of them.
In Lesson Sixty, just preceding this, there will be found a
summary of the processes that develop the Magnetic Mind.
Those processes, aided largely by the Regime of Mental
Magnitude which is found in Lesson Thirteen, will overcome
the influence exerted by the appetites.
If, however, the Physical Mind holds sway, the appetites will
bring ruin in ninety per cent of marriages. A very large
majority of people are or have been married ;
and the wrecking
of this alliance will in nearly every instance result in harm to
those who make Jbhe mistake of entering into it ill-advisedly.
A_mistaJke_aypided is worth a thousand corrected.]
We have seen that when ill -health brings pain, suffering and
physical torture, magnetism is never possible. In like manner
335
INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
mental ill-health, such as must attend the wrecking of married
life, brings worries, suffering, anguish, hopeless drifting for
years, and loss of ambition to get on in the world until there
is the legal separation and the new start at a point far back
of that where the first course began. As we have said, a
mistake avoided is worth a thousand corrected.
With the Magnetic Mind in control, mistakes need not be
corrected ; they are avoided. The Truth-Teller has charge of
affairs. He shows you facts by asking you questions :
1. You are thinking of marrying a woman whom you say
you love. Do you know that love begins at puberty in response
to the sexual appetite ? That it exists solely as a partner with
that condition, is born with it, and cannot live without it ?
That love is a fever of the nerves tortured by the same appetite ?
That therejis^really in fact^but thejdiortest conceivable step
from loving and hating ? That countless thousands of wives
Eave loved mlierisely, ~and suddenly have hated bitterly ?
That ninety-nine per cent of married people have awakened
after marriage to find their mistake, all of whom, if forewarned,
would have said,
"
Oh, we know there have been wrecks in
millions of other cases, but with us it will be different ;
we are
perfectly mated, and will love each other as long as life shall
last and ever after."
2. You are marrying in order to meet the demands of your
sexual appetite, and the foregoing enquiries do not deter you,
then you will go on to the wreckage we have described in the
early part of this lesson. But if you are marrying in order to
possess a mate as a loving and sympathetic companion, then
let the Truth-Teller analyse the prospects for you, and see if
you will take the step. We are discussing the man side first.
You have found the one woman in this world who was created
for you. She is pretty. Is she ?
Beauty is skin deep. Have
you seen her with the
"
make-up
"
off ? But supposing that
in her natural skin, her face is fair, its texture is velvety, and
the lines are yet absent, what of those mornings when, after
her stomach and liver are upset by indigestion, she is sallow,
yellow, jaundiced, of sour breath and fishy eyes, drawn features
and sagging jaw, are you then enamoured of her beauty ?
There must be something more than a doll face of velvety
texture and smooth surface toTiold your love.
THE TRUTH-TELLER 337
3. How about the housework ? Can you afford to pay for
help ? If you can, have you the means to pay for them, to
feed them and to house them ? If, after paying all your bills as
estimated before marriage, and as many more that will arise
without being estimated, will you find yourself in debt at the
end of each year, or will you come out about even ? And are
you prepared to meet the cost of emergencies, exigencies and
unexpected liabilities that come in flocks to all married couples ?
If you are in debt, where will you be when old age arrives ? If
you come out even, where will you be when the same old age
arrives ? If you save one hundred pounds each year, how
many years of smooth financial sailing will be required for you
to save up sufficient money to invest so that when you are too
old to work you can live on the income ? Safe investments
do not average much over four per cent. Four thousand
pounds placed at such interest would yield only one hundred
and sixty pounds a year ;
and saving at the rate of one hundred
pounds a year would require forty years to provide this sum,
with, of course, a slightly larger income from invested interest ;
but compounding it would not produce enough to enable you
to live decently after you are superannuated. Hence the
saving of one hundred pounds a year during marriage will not
be enough ;
and the chances are a thousand to one that you
will start saving as the man started planting his land, as soon
as he caught up with the end of the rainbow. You will be
getting ready to start the next year. But if you do not start
some time, woe to you and your old age !
4. If you are thinking of building your own house, the Truth-
Teller wishes to say that the cost of material is about three
hundred per cent above normal ;
and the cost of labour from
three hundred to four hundred per cent above normal. If you
use electric light, or have other conveniences, and especially are
compelled to pay for the services of plumbers, or painters and
carpenters for repairs, or even in constructing a house, the wages
charged in addition to the swollen prices of material are pro-
hibitive. What is normal ? It is argued that if all wage
earners and business men and women receive these abnormal
prices, then one line of charges will balance the others. But the
only test of what is normal comes from dividends from the bonds
of the nation, and from stocks and shares of the great typical
22
338 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
corporations, such as the steel companies, the railways, the
industries and the banking institutions. Taking as the basis
the purchase price of such bonds and stocks to-day, and the
dividends that are distributed to owners of them, the average
income from these sources is nearer four per cent per annum
than five ; and, while all material and wages have risen from
three hundred to four hundred per cent over the figures of
thirty years ago, the returns from bonds and stocks have been
standing still. Yet people may be surprised to learn that a
very big percentage of all income on which people pay their
living expenses comes from these investments ; and, when those
who now depend on their earnings in other ways are too old to
remain active in business, employment or professional life,
ALL their income then must come from similar investments.
This is the only way of determining what is normal ;
and
possible bankruptcy must be foreseen as the most dangerous
reef of married life until the cost of material and labour shall
again become normal. If it requires to-day four times the
earnings of labour or business to equal the value received,
excessively high wages and charges bring no advantage, and
stand in the way of purchasing living investments as a sufficient
protection against old-age demands.
We present these abnormal figures because the mental worry
that attends the struggle to finance marriage, with the years
passing and nothing being laid by against old age, frets
husbands and wives until they become nervous and irritable
and lose both magnetism and ambition.
5. If you think that two persons can live as cheaply as one
by marrying, you should first make estimates of every possible
expense that you can think of as pertaining to marriage,(and
multiply these by four. The Physical Mind cannot be made
to believe this ;
but the Magnetic Mind knows it to be true.
We are discussing the average families, not those that are of
very limited means. The husband may be in business, or may
be employed in a high-salaried position, or may be building up
some profession ;
he is quite sure to be in one of these three
vocations. The only point we make in this lesson is that he
should know the cost of marriage as it affects him ;
should every
year establish a margin between his income and his expendi-
tures ; and should have the solid satisfaction of knowing that
THE TRUTH-TELLER 339
he is living within his means, and providing for the future. His
exact financial situation should be made known to his wife, for
if she is worthy of being a wife she will help him to establish
this margin and will glory in their united efforts to succeed.
This is genuine personal magnetism applied to the greatest
institution of all time, marriage, and it tends to hold husbands
and wives together.
Let them read this lesson together and study its meaning.
Every person should possess a Truth-Teller. It is a section
of the mind that is lighted by the highest candle-power known
to science ;
it lights up the past, collects the unvarying facts
from that direction, and throws them forward on the screen of
the coming years. If these facts have been unvarying in the
past, they are sure to remain permanent guides for the future.
In addition to these facts it reveals the processes of life
as they are being unfolded in the present, and shows their
infallible control of the future ;
for it is a law of action that
no coming event can originate itself, but must be brought on
by a chain of causation from preceding conditions.
The Truth-Teller divides the future of each man and woman
into three parts :
Possibilities, Probabilities and Certainties
on the bright side ;
and into three other parts on the dark
side :
Impossibilities, Improbabilities and Certainties, the last
being certainties of failure.
LESSON SIXTY-TWO
DISCERNING THE TRUTH
STILL
GIVING HEED to the Truth-Teller, we look
into the homes of those people who have weathered
the storms of wedlock and are still united in the same
bonds that first made them mates, and that still hold them
together. In one village of about two thousand inhabitants,
whose history we have known personally for over thirty years,
there has not been a single divorce, nor a single separation
except by death. In this village, less than ten houses are
rented in each hundred, the others being owned, some by
labourers, some by professional people, some by business men,
and some by persons who are employed in offices or otherwise.
In every family during the first years of wedlock, there were
no servants, the wife doing the housework except the laundry
and occasional cleaning, and the husband attending to his
duties. In later years a few of the families employed help,
but we do not know of a single case where the wife gave up
the cooking or superintending it. Eighty per cent of these
families were affiliated with some church, but less than half
of them attended regularly.
In another town of nearly ten thousand inhabitants, whose
history we have known personally for over thirty years, the
same general conditions prevail, and divorce has been almost
unknown. Some of the families were well-to-do, and employed
servants ;
but not until later years never more than one
regularly. There was a large proportion of church-going
people in this town.
From records made in a number of villages, small towns and
large towns, grading through small cities up to those of middle
size, it has been learned that three factors have tended to
keep married people together : the influence of openly observed
methods of living, the fact that the wives have been workers
340
DISCERNING THE TRUTH 34!
in their homes, and the general custom of attending church at
least some of the time. We have a list of seven thousand or
more small towns where, during a quarter of a century, less
than one couple in two hundred have been divorced or separated,
where women work in their own homes, and where church
influence is active. As the towns become cities, the divorce evil
grows with the growth of the latter ;
we mean pro rata. Thus
in any large city the proportion of divorces to those of marriages
is the largest of all.
When we come to the study of VALUES we shall see the
reason of this increase.
We are now taking a stroll with the Truth-Teller, and will
deal with the wrecks that are made in city life among marriages
that occur there. For this purpose we will not include wed-
lock among the poorer classes, as they have wholly different
problems to face. We will step up a grade or two higher from
the classes which we discussed in the preceding lesson, and
find ourselves among the middle ranks of the well-to-do, and
also among the rich. The TruthTTeller wishes to call attention
to the following varieties of wedded couples :
1. Here is a wealthy merchant who has married a young
woman, the latter vowing that she was attracted by her love
for him, and not by his wealth. He is still in business, but
spends his evenings with her when she is at home or goes to
the opera, the theatre, or visiting. During the day she loafs,
as he can afford to employ servants. On an average they go
out two evenings each week, but are at home with each other
the remaining five evenings. He sits in the library, reads his
paper and falls asleep. She does fancy-work or reads a novel,
and eventually retires. The opera bores them both. The
theatre is barely endurable. Visiting is irksome, because it is
filled with flattery and insincerity, and is always perfunctory.
There are occasional outings and short holidays. The husband
feels that he owns the woman, and she takes advantage of
her freedom during the day to form indiscreet acquaintances
in order to make tolerable the dull evenings. There is no
magnetism ;
and all VALUES are lacking.
2. In another case a rich broker marries a woman for her
extraordinary beauty. He must devote his time during office
hours to his work ;
so she is left to herself, and becomes a loafer.
342 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
She rises late in the forenoons, after a lazy breakfast in bed,
gets through some tedious hours until she can call at her beauty
parlour, fills in more hours playing bridge, is at home in time for
the evening meal, drags her husband to some lascivious dance or
cabaret, drinks liquor and smokes cigarettes to excess despite
the well-proved fact that these things are responsible for the
rapidly increasing spread of cancer among her kind and class,
and gets home in the small hours of the morning or later, having
spent her vitality and lowered her character in a round of excite-
ments not one of which is wholesome or productive of enjoyment,
but all of which are pulling her down to the level of their own
origin. When these wives do not die early of cancer they
drift into the lives of libertines, and the history of such women
confirms the fact that a big percentage of them either are
divorced sooner or later, or openly defy the law. Taking at
random the cases of five hundred marriages between men of
wealth and women of beauty that occurred in a large city, we
find that in exactly four hundred and three of them the end
came in the manner described.
All VALUES are lacking, and magnetism never existed.
There was nothing to hold those couples together. They all
regretted the marriage after it was too late.
The Truth-Teller is able to discern the truth of the future
by the experiences of the past,__- The Physical Mind will not
accept the truth of the future. The Magnetic Mind is endowed
with the power to take advantage of its discernment, and to
avoid the reefs and dangerous shoals that are wrecking most
lives and neutralizing the brilliant victories of personal
magnetism.
3. In another variety of cases which we will represent by a
sample only, the wife is decent, she does not drink liquor nor
smoke cigarettes to excess, nor submit herself to the arms of
dancing libertines, nor hang around cabarets, nor cultivate indis-
creet friendships with other men. Her husband is wealthy. He
must be at his office during the hours of the day, and she is left
to herself, and becomes unwillingly a loafer. But she is honour-
able. She is true to her marriage vows. She has but little to
interest her. He takes her to the opera at times, but she feels
that it is done to enable her to exhibit her fine clothes. A few
other diversions fall to her lot. He desires to spend some even-
DISCERNING THE TRUTH 343
ings at home ;
otherwise home life to him would be narrowed
by his absence at his office in the day and his drifting out at
night. So they sit together in a pleasant room. He smokes and
reads the papers. She either does some fancy-work or reads a
novel. They rarely speak, for there is nothing to say. In their
individuaraBsorption they do not always remember that they
areln each other's presence. Many thousands of moral, decent
couples drift their lives away in this dull routine.
In this case all VALUES are lacking, and there is no personal
magnetism. In a subsequent lesson we shall see what these
values are, and shall note their great influence over the lives
of married people.
The Truth-Teller makes known the fact that men who, prior
to marriage, are free to come and go as they please, night or
day, are forced to the humiliation of having to invent explana-
tions to offer their wives in order to account for their wanderings
especially after the early morning hours, and are continually
in hot water in failing to make their explanations convincing ;
while, on the other hand, wives are expected to account to
their husbands for absences and adventures. Evasions and the
humiliation of being compelled to explain one's doings are
destructive of magnetism, because they make independence
impossible without warfare, which becomes despicable in wed-
lock.
The Magnetic Mind meets all such contingencies.
The fact that the greatest undertakings in life are totally
lacking in VALUES is due to the substitutes for magnetism
thai we are trying to expose and avoid by Lessons Twelve and
Thirteen of this book. When men and women are influenced in
the right direction and for their actual benefit, the influencing
power is magnetism ; but when they are lured to the shoals of
ruin by the power of their appetites, then they find that the
enterprise lacks the VALUES which alone bring success and
triumph. This failure brings emptiness of hope, and an ever
haunting despair.
LESSON SIXTY-THREE
INTRODUCING PHYSICAL VALUES
PERSONAL
MAGNETISM is an exchange of values.
There are as many values as there are activities and
things in life. An exchange is not one-sided ;
it takes
but gives at the same time. A one-sided transaction is either
robbery, cheating_^r fraud i janqL the>
world is full of these
episodes. /HypnotismL_is the opposite^ of magnetism i;
it may
dull the mind so that any intelligent transaction is impossible.
Magnetism gives the mind its full powers of operation and
discernment and endows it with its best qualities.
VALUES are of three kinds :
1. Physical.
2. Plebeian.
3. Patrician.
Physical values proceed from the Physical Mind, appeal to
it, and proceed to it. They are in the lowest stratum of
personal magnetism, and in the opinion of some teachers they do
not in any sense involve any phase of that power ; yet they
rule ninety-nine per cent of all human affairs outside of the actual
realm of personal magnetism. Here are some instances :
1. A woman is passing out of her youth, is not able to more
than support herself from year to year, and saves nothing
against old age. Her only hope when she is no longer able
to earn a living is a place in some home for old ladies. A man
whom she does not love, for she is not capable of the tender
emotion, offers to marry her, and she accepts. This is an
example of physical values. In most cases, such a marriage is
permanent.
2. A man who is boarding, and does not like the food and
treatment he is getting, finds a woman who is a good cook
and a neat housekeeper. He offers her his name, procures a
344
INTRODUCING PHYSICAL VALUES 345
humble home, and enters into an alliance that is abiding. We
have learned of countless thousands of such cases. If the wife
is asked if it is a love affair, she generally says,
"
Oh, pshaw !
no ; just a mutual arrangement,*' or something similar.
3. A man of more than ordinary means is trapped by a
widow of unusual beauty and more than average avoirdupois.
She fascinates him. He marries her without an exchange of
Values. Soon after the wedding, he finds that she is a loafer ;
all the housework must be done and even looked after by
servants who are strangers. The cooking leads to indigestion ;
this to irritability ;
this to a sudden awakening ;
followed by
quarrels, and violent outbursts of temper on the part of the
wife who hurls dishes and other missiles at the head of her
husband ;
and they end their troubles in the divorce courts, the
husband fighting like a warrior and proving that the woman
was a mere beauty, a loafer in her home, a bridge-fiend, and
brutal in her assaults on him. She had anticipated sufficient
alimony to enable her to live in comfort for the rest of her
years, but got nothing. The Judge said,
"
In my thirty years'
experience I have known of hundreds of cases of such marriages
where the wives have been mere seekers after leisure and support,
giving nothing in return, and resorting to violence and physical
attack on their husbands when they were not successful in their
schemes. In a matter of life importance like marriage, men
should have a sufficiently long period of acquaintance with the
women they wish to make their wives to enable them to know
who they are and what they are."
False appeals lead to disaster.
Many a man has been swung off his mental moorings by a pair
of legs, and finds himself fettered to a girl or woman who can
offer in return no Values whatever, for the surfeiting of his
animal appetite only palls on him. These are the marriages
that, in every case, are broken either by divorce or by
separation; and in every instance, when the man is fore-
warned, he saySj
"
QiuJKfLJire going to provfii J/QL the world
tjhatjwe are an exception to the usual cases^' ~ ^The afl
Since it is tine that unhappy married life hurts if not ruins
the victims of it, the fact should be hammered home to every
person, whether now married or not, that there must be an
346 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
exchange of Values, and these Values are never magnetic if
merely physical.
4. A widower of wealth with residences, cars, yacht and
leisure, marries a woman who gives him nothing in return but
some of her leisure, some of her display of clothing, some of
her association, her companionship in travel, and her ability
to arouse interest among her flatterers by receptions, parties
and dinners ;
all of which bore him and leave her discontented
and surfeited with life. This same couple could secure from
their conditions and opportunities, aided by their wealth, a
genuine enjoyment of existence ;
and it need not compel them
to seek ease of conscience by slumming and ill-directed charities,
which are forms of repentance of mis-spent lives. But this
match, like thousands of the same kind, ended in divorce.
There was no exchange of Values.
5. A woman of wealth married a poet, and regretted it.
Her idea was that she should bask in the sunlight of genius.
Another woman of wealth married a military officer, and
regretted it. She was attracted by his uniform and the straight
manner in which he walked or strutted. These became
monotonous. A young woman of wealth married a chauffeur
because he was handsome, of fine build, of lovely face, lovely
eyes and soft-spoken voice. She found soon after that there was
no exchange of Values, and they were divorced. In almost
every such case, as in marriages of wealthy girls to poor young
men, or to rich young rakes, after weathering the storms for
a few weeks, months or even years, divorce follows. An
observer of three thousand such cases arising in the past fifteen
years states that every one of these three thousand were
divorced or separated ;
all unhappy ;
all regretful ;
all bitter at
life ;
and all because the Physical Mind was unable to discern
the truth, and the Magnetic Mind did not send the Truth-Teller
to disclose the certainties of the future.
Any transaction that is not founded on an exchange of Values
is a failure, and will be laid bare to the storms of life that must
follow. Fair-weather success is like a wisp of a boat with
filmy sails floating idly in summer zephyrs and collapsing at
the first angry gust of the heavens. The existence of Magnetic
Values will carry any one through any storm to any port.
It is a fact that most girls and women prefer to wed a man
INTRODUCING PHYSICAL VALUES 347
of means rather than one of poverty ; yet if both are poor and
work for a competence, the chances for happiness and per-
manency are increased. Prospective suitors do not know
generally that their financial rating is investigated, or their
money worth is ascertained in advance of a proposal, so that
they may be accepted if satisfactory, or let down easily if not
wanted. Thus we see that the gentler sex is after physical
values, and has none to offer in return. Such marriages are
failures.
A young man works for his employer the number of hours
agreed upon and does the kind of work for which he is paid.
This is an exchange of physical values ; work and faithfulness
on the one hand, and compensation on the other. There is
nothing magnetic about it. Let either value fail to meet the
other, and discontent follows. If the work done is not well
enough done, or the remuneration too little, the whole arrange-
ment is likely to collapse. Long years of service faithfully
performed may be rewarded specially, but still the matter is
physical. In order to make it magnetic, these values should
change to those that are either plebeian or patrician, as will
be seen later on. An exchange of wages for work with nothing
else involved is the lowest form of human association.
In sales, the delivery of goods or property for an equivalent
in money or other value is crude and primitive ;
but if each
sale sends out a drawing influence looking to future transactions,
it becomes magnetic.
The same law runs through all the affairs of life.
The monotony of exchanging something physical for f;Wwtt
thing physical is merely dry, vaporized barter and sale,
whether of property, services or cash. We call a marriage j*
success if the parties remain together until death, following a
humdrum existence, securing a living and escaping poverty.
Yet it is colourless, for it is only an exchange of Physica^
Values. On the other hand the attempt to avoid this humdrum
existence leads to separation. The solution is the exchange otf
Magnetic Values.
LESSON SIXTY-FOUR
MAGNETIC VALUES
FROM
THE BEGINNING of human intercourse there
have been exchanges of Values, but probably they
have all been of a physical nature. Once there was
no money, and other things had to be used for payment in
sales and trades. In the material world, it sometimes happens
that payment is made in equivalents that are neither money
nor property. At a charitable affair fair kisses are sold at
so much each to raise money for a good cause. This may be
classed as a service or a favour. The husband who gave up his
liberty for the joy of possessing a wife, and who remains out
so late at night that he cannot adequately explain his absence,
finds a way to buy peace and reconciliation by gifts of jewellery,
or a fur coat ;
this being an exchange of material value for a
smile, a kiss and forgiveness. Some wives handle these
situations skilfully. But the real worth of marriage will have
departed, ^-w^with wedlock that rich old fools purchase when
gifts to maidens fair in exchange for their
Animal appetites destroy the judgment,
and ^jmSho magnetism to guide them off the shoals.
We hlive seen in the preceding lesson that there are three
binds of Values ;
the Physical, the Plebeian, and the Patrician.
The first of these was disposed of in that lesson. When it suc-
ceeds it is because policy is the ruling power. The husband
who provides a home and support in exchange for the services of
a woman who is a good cook and housekeeper is following the
law of policy ;
and she is doing the same. It is a very im-
portant exchange of Values ;
and there is no denying the great
fact that any kind of Values that are fairly exchanged are
nearly always fruitful in permanent content ;
while the lack of
mutual Values even of a magnetic character is one-sided and
permanency is threatened.
348
MAGNETIC VALUES 349
The Magnetic Values are :
1. Plebeian ;
or
2. Patrician,
In this division we do not intend to present the plebeian
values as unworthy. On the other hand they are all of them
of the utmost worth in their class. Let us look at some of them :
1. A married man who furnishes home and support to the
woman whom he has married in exchange for her cooking and
housework is following out the law of policy in a very equitable
bargain. But both he and she may be totally lacking in
Magnetic Values.
This principle is valuable.
To possess these Values of the plebeian class, he should be :
Neat, well-dressed even in his lounging hours, clean, polite,
considerate, generous, sympathetic, helpful, good-dispositioned,
cheerful, of proper taste in most things if not in all, observant
of the rules of good form and etiquette as far as his mode of
life demands, decent in his language, free from profane or
obscene talk or suggestion, dignified when he should be, and
respectful of the views and beliefs of others. His breath should
not be foul ;
his teeth should have no ulcerated roots or rotten
cavities ;
his nose and throat should be free from catarrh ; his
tonsils should not be discharging pus ;
and he should not be
suffering from intestinal poisoning which is sure to find its
way to his breath and skin.
These are just practical suggestions of the Values that make
a man personally desirable to a woman.
Refinement in life has no limit.
Good taste need not drive a man into classical music or
classical literature ;
but the man that invented certain jazz
music, the man that plays it, the man that dances to it and
the man that willingly listens to it, in many instances belong to
that hopeless class of vapid minds that are never capable of
possessing Magnetic Values in any department of life ; for
they are skim-coated thinkers that lack the basic elements
of greatness in any degree. You never see the solid sense of
any respected man or woman jigging itself away to such
semi-crazy contortions of music.
2. A married woman should be all that the man should be,
350 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
as far as we have described his plebeian values. We call them
plebeian because they may be adopted, assumed, worn for a
day or on special occasions ; yet when so exhibited they do
exert a most powerful magnetic influence towards winning suc-
cess. Of course the abiding kinds are the patrician, for they
grow into a person and are not taken on or dropped as con-
venience and policy may decree. These we shall discuss later.
It is claimed that marriage and employment are the two
greatest influences in the world. It is because of marriage
that the race remains on earth ;
and this institution includes
home and home support, raising and furnishing supplies for
home ;
also it includes the blood relationships of all kinds, with
endless ties. Employment involves the employer and the em-
ployee ;
but in the sense in which we use it, the services of
professional skill, as of the lawyer, the doctor and the dentist
are not included. They belong to their own class. Business
and industrial enterprises require the employing of many
millions of people in this country, and of millions in any other
large country.
Employment is divided into several grades : that of the
common labourer being the lowest ;
that of the skilled artisan
next higher ;
that of the expert still higher. In business the
employees are generally those of common labour, and clerks
or salesmen. Then come office employees, and a variety of
others in countless lines. Railway, industrial and other cor-
porations offer employment to men and women ;
but mostly
to men.
In every kind of employment there is a large magnet, invisible
but felt and recognized by magnetic employees, which is hung
at the top of the whole system, and which exerts a great drawing
power over all who are below it ; seeking to draw them up, up,
always up. This drawing power possesses the highest magnetic
value in human existence.
An employee who meets in a perfunctory manner the duties
ot his work, who gets through the hours from start to finish
each day, who does no more than he needs do in order to keep
his position may be said to be exchanging physical values
for physical values. But if he seeks to better himself by a
genuine faithfulness to his work and takes an interest in it,
he is exchanging plebeian values for the hope of betterment.
MAGNETIC VALUES 351
But this is not all that he can do. The great magnet that hangs
overhead is not drawing him up.
The merely perfunctory employee, who gets through the
hours with the least wear and tear on his energies, is too
numerous to be described. Sometimes he is a heavy cigarette
smoker. The habit that is now so common among the labour-
ing classes of lighting from ten to twenty cigarettes every
hour is gradually working against their interests. A con-
struction concern that employs twelve hundred carpenters,
when there is a slackening of their work, always dismisses the
cigarette smokers first, and retains those that do not indulge in
this habit ;~and in hiring others later on as business gets better,
avoids employing those who are addicted to this habit.
A construction company that hired over sixteen hundred
men, by observation ascertained that those who spent time
enough each hour to light a dozen or more cigarettes, required
nearly half their time to accomplish this perpetual feat ;
and
in these days when labour is demanding three hundred per cent
more than normal wages, if half the time is wasted in lighting
cigarettes, then the wages are doubled by that condition beyond
the price demanded.
Similar reports show that with each cessation of activity in
business or construction, the men who will be the first to lose
their jobs are the cigarette smokers. There is now a growing
understanding among great employing concerns that the non-
smokers will be retained even when there is not enough work
for them to do rather than lose them.
We looked three years ago into a vast office building where
on one floor a large number of men were employed. Recently
we again looked there and made the following enquiry :
"
Where
are the cigarette smokers ?
"
The answer came,
"
Hunting jobs
elsewhere. We have no rule against smoking, but we found
that the mistakes and the slow work were chargeable to the
men who used cigarettes. Instead of discharging them, we
gradually let them go as the work slackened, and put on non-
smokers as it became brisk again. All other offices that we
know about are doing the same thing. The cigarette is
sapping brain, blood and vitality out of strong men and making
them slaves to the habit ;
and we do not wish to have slaves
work for us."
352 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
There are thousands of men employed in retail stores
and in places of retail business ; and the cigarette smoker is
barred from them ; and, where he refrains during working
hours, but is known to indulge in the habit outside, he is in many
instances the first to lose his position when a change is made.
Magnetism is the opposite of slavery ; and a habit that makes
a slave of a man is a barrier to the attainment of magnetism.
Addicts of any bad habit make the specious claim that, at
least outside the hours and places of employment they may
do as they please ;
so they make themselves unfit for day work
by night orgies of various kinds. We cited the case of a large
number*cJ young women employees in a great office, many of
whom were yawning while trying to work ; indicating that they
were wasting their physical, mental and nervous energies by
late hours at night. These women were gradually eliminated
from their positions, although many of them were helping to
support dependent parents. The question arose, did it pay
to sacrifice golden opportunity for the greed of exhausting
pleasures ?
Employers now have a way of learning how those who work
for them spend their time outside the employment ;
not in-
tending to spy on their help, but to be able to advance those
whose habits are good ;
for it is the fairest scheme in the world
to help those who are trying to help themselves.
True character can bear being watched.
The head of one of the great corporations of this country
told us that it was their policy to advance their employees who
were of good habits and were efficient, and were enabled to
do so because their private lives were investigated and given
consideration in connection with their faithfulness as em-
ployees. Magnetic values always win success.
LESSON SIXTY-FIVE
SPIRIT OF PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT
E1VING
THE LESSER POWERS to the brief ac-
counts already given, we hurry on to the real climax
of applied magnetism, as we take up the study of
greater things. When we speak of values we do not refer to
money or property, but to qualities and evidences of worth.
Money and property are agencies of the blessings they are
charged with bringing to people ;
and are not the final goal of
ambition in any true life. We have shown that Values of the
physical kind may, if exchanged evenly, serve as imitations or
substitutes of those that are magnetic. The latter we have
divided into two classes ; one plebeian and the other patrician.
Plebeian Values are those that are higher and nobler than the
physical kind, yet are not engrafted on the life of the individual,
but may be put on and laid off at will. Despite this limitation
they are magnetic in a moderate degree.
To understand the enormously high worth of Patrician
Values, or those that cannot be assumed and cast aside at will,
but that are made a part of the individual, we should note the
status of the Plebeian Values by way of review, which will be
very brief. Thus some embryo book of personal magnetism
teaches that politeness develops this power, among many other
things. Politeness is something that can be put on and laid off
at will. At home you assume no specially kind or attractive
tones, but use your commonplace voice. A caller comes to see
you whom you wish to impress favourably, and at once you put
on what is called your
"
Sunday voice." Everybody does this.
When the visitor departs, you lay aside your assumed tones
and come back to the common style of talking. The difference
is marked to any observer who studies you. So with your
manners, your graciousness and your attentiveness.
All these are Plebeian Values ; they all lead to a moderate
353
354 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
degree of personal magnetism ; but they never ascend the
heights, for anything that can be put on and taken off
at will is transient and not deep enough to have become
inherent.
The same thing might be said of the Patrician Values. It is
true that they can be assumed ;
but only by an effort great
enough to make them permanent. Experience shows that once
they are engrafted on the personality of the individual, they
remain for life. Employment, marriage and business together
with the professions, embrace nearly all the activities of
humanity. It is in these departments of existence that the
power of personal magnetism finds its opportunities of achieving
their victories ;
and these we must consider as we unfold the
present lesson.
The Sgirit
of Personal Improvement is one of the Patrician
Values.
This spirit itself is magnetic. It is not a state or condition
but a movement ;
it goes forward, never backward, and never
stands still ;
for all of which reasons it is bound to exert unusual
power over the life of the individual. If it once acquires
momentum it does not stop. But it will not operate through
the physical mind. A higher faculty is necessary to set it
going. This is the whole trouble. The physical mind cannot
be convinced that every step in the personal improvement of
mind and body adds value to every department of life, and by
building a better general individual builds a better man or
woman in some special line of activity. The instances of the
usefulness of this law are numerous. Take the case of Lawrence
Barrett that we have mentioned in some former lesson ;
when
a lad he was not only poor but uneducated. When he became
an actor, he did not stop with that profession, but became a
scholar in all general lines of mental growth ;
and his scholar-
ship was reflected in his dramatic career.
In law it is well known that the higher a man rises in his
general knowledge of history, literature, rhetoric, language and
the biographies of great men and women, as well as in many
of the college branches, the better lawyer he will become. A
one-sided mentality is not attractive. Every great lawyer has
been highly educated in other lines, or he could not have been
great. The value of this all-round knowledge is recognized by
SPIRIT OF PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT 355
the requirements now made when applicants are examined for
admission to the bar.
But we know of a young lawyer who, instead of sitting with
his feet on the table waiting for clients to call, utilized his time
collecting forms, copying written pleadings in other cases on
file in clerks' offices, learning how to carry cases up to higher
courts on appeal, saving exceptions, making bills in chancery or
equity, preparing unusual papers by studying those that had
been drawn for past trials, copying contracts and recorded
deeds, leases, wills and countless other documents ;
all of which
he kept at hand in his office so that during his otherwise idle
hours he could make himself familiar with them. Clients
employ lawyers because of their experience ;
this line of experi-
ence consists in having had contact with such writings. The
result was that the young lawyer rose rapidly in his profession
and was often called into consultation by older attorneys in im-
portant cases where technical knowledge was needed. Evenings
he read and studied books that made him a finely educated man.
The young and ambitious artist, if guided by his physical
mind, will devote his many idle hours to reading novels, thus
weakening the artistic temperament. His theory is that all he
needs, after graduating from an art school is to go out and paint
when the weather is fit, send his work to shows or dealers, and
wonder why the cheques never appear. Ihe would lay aside
his novel and absorb the history of mankind instead ; and, as
companion to such study/master the finer phases ofrhetoric^ pj
grammar, of the forgotten matters of his earlier schpolingj read
ihe biographies of great men and women ; and inform himself
about the lives and characteristics of other peoples the world
over ;
he would be adding true values to the little that Nature
Has bestowed upon him, ;
for artists are not made by art schools.
There never was a real artist who was not a poet by inclina-
tion ;
he may never have written a line, but he has caught the
sacred fire by absorbing the spirit of the geniuses of the past.
If he can arouse this fire in himself by reading and being thrilled
by the fancies of such geniuses, he may find himself an artist
some day. Novel-reading dries up the fancy, shrivels the
imagination, and lowers the mental tone so that all he has left
is the inclination to go out on days when the weather is fit and
try his hand at painting something.
356 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The poetry that is necessary in the life of the artist is seen
working its charms when it leads the painter out where Nature
has preceded him in her works of art. The man or woman who
goes out for miles to try a hand at painting something sees
nothing worth painting until some attractive scene is reached.
The true artist sees values everywhere ;
he passes countless
wealth in landscape, the sky, the river, the fields, the forests, the
drooping foliage, the flowering roadside ;
to him there are
"
sermons in stones, books in the running brooks, and good
in everything.
"
He is alert. He sees. He feels. He will
succeed.
The Spirit of Personal Improvement is at work in him.
It goes with him through life.
Drop into some retail shop, and note the assistants that have
nothing to do while waiting for patrons. They discuss all the
gossip of the times. They idle away many valuable hours
every day of their lives. In one group of assistants was a young
man who sought the Spirit of Personal Improvement. One
day he brought a small pocket dictionary, and consulted it
during the periods when little demand was made on his services.
A customer entered the shop. Other assistants who were ab-
sorbed in some news, emerged slowly from behind their
counters, but the assistant with the dictionary put it quickly in
his pocket, and was the first to greet the customer. This was
always the case. The manager eventually noticed this fact.
One day the head of the firm said to the manager,
"
Can you
find out what kind of a book that assistant is reading when he
has nothing to do ?
"
He did find out. It was a dictionary.
On another day the assistant had a different looking book ;
it was about grammar. On still another day he brought a
third book ;
it was about rhetoric. Later on, when the head
of the firm knew these things, he instructed his manager to see
that the assistant's wages were raised under an agreement that
nothing was to be said to the other employees, and with the
impression that no one but the manager was to know of the
increase.
In the course of time the head of the firm called the assistant
into his private office and said to him :
"
Young man, you have been in my employ three years.
Is that so ?
"
SPIRIT OF PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT 357
The sternness of the enquiry alarmed the youth, who replied
timidly,
"
It is true, sir."
"
Well, during that period do you know how much of my
time has been used by you reading books that you have con-
cealed in your pockets ?
"
"
I was not reading exactly, but studying. I thought I might
improve myself in that way. Besides I did not encroach on any
of your time, as I always was ready to wait on customers."
"
You had your evenings to yourself. Why use my time at
the shop doing what you could do at home in the evenings ?
Was that right ?
"
"
I have always had work to do at home helping my mother
who is not well ;
and besides, when I did have any spare time
in the evenings I read history and literature and other things
from books too big to bring to the shop."
"
Well, as you admit that you have used my time for three
years for which you have been paid by the firm, what adjust-
ment do you propose to make ?
"
"
I will leave that to you, sir."
"
Well, I do not wish to be hard on you. I am starting a
large branch in another part of the city nearer to your mother's
home. I will offer you the position of manager at double the
salary you are now receiving, in addition to which I will admit
you to a limited partnership, so that while your income will be
assured, it may be largely increased by the profits from the
branch. You know we do not do business without profits."
The assistant was astonished, and remained silent for a time,
his employer watching him closely. When he was able to
express himself, he enquired :
"
Why are you so kind to me, sir ?
"
"
I am kind to myself," said the employer.
"
Your private
life is known to me. It is exemplary. Your habits are clean.
My other assistants are time-wasters. You will never be poor.
They will never be worth any more than they are now. Mark
me, you will never be poor."
You, who are reading these pages, do you know that you and
countless thousands of other employees have exactly the same
opportunity for advancement, if you are working at a salary ?
Your physical mind will say,
"
Oh, what's the use ?
"
If you
proceed far enough to awaken your Magnetic Mind, its Truth-
358 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Teller will convey to you the information that there hangs
above you in your employment a magnet which is there to draw
you up, up, up !
The process is easy.
Just let the Spirit of Personal Improvement enter your life
and begin to do its work.
The Unseen Magnet is hanging over the head of each and
every man and woman who adopts this Spirit of Personal
Improvement ;
and it affects every phase of human life every-
where. It appears not only in the results of each line of
business, but in all employment, and also in the larger work of
those who conduct the great affairs of the world, no matter
what they may be.
We are greatly pleased to have learned that our efforts on be-
half of employees and employers in this one line alone have been
wonderfully rewarded, and we have been informed that wher-
ever there has been a sincere attempt to put into practice this
Spirit of Personal Improvement, the most remarkable success
has resulted. We have inspired thousands of young men and
women to add values to themselves in this way, and we know of
no case where they have not risen rapidly and to great heights
compared with the prospects that confronted them before they
undertook this method of betterment.
A fertile mind is necessarily magnetic ;
and such a mind is
able to find ways and means of self-improvement. It may be
in one direction, or in another ;
but the great fact must be met
that, on the one hand, there is the inclination to waste minutes
and hours, to get through the day with the least effort possible,
to even be on time and to remain until the last minute attending
to the absolutely necessary duties, yet doing so in a perfunctory
manner ; while, on the other hand, there are countless little
ways in which human values may be acquired and added to
every person who seeks the higher and better things of life.
We have cited a few examples only ;
but a book might be
written on those that remain.
We are proud of the fact that large business concerns and
other employers are making use of these lessons in order to
encourage their employees to improve themselves.
LESSON SIXTY-SIX
MAGNETIC INITIATIVES
WHATEVER
MAKES A PERSON more valuable to
himself will make him more valuable to others ;
and
the reverse of this proposition is true. There is
another reverse condition that is not given much attention.
It is this : Personal improvement lifts the individual up
because of the power of its influence ;
and a person is improved
and lifted up by associating with thoughts, ideas, impulses and
individuals that are higher in life than the person. To seek one's
associates among those of a lower level draws downward the
whole character ;
to seek them among those on the same
level maintains the same level ;
but to seek them among
those of a high level draws upward the character and the
individual.
These are all magnetic forces ;
and they are at work in
millions of lives every day.
Ideals -ajKLambitions__a!sp are magnetic j they may be born
injbhe appetites which we have discussed in the Secojad Depart-
ment of this book ; and if so they draw downward. _ Theyjnay
seek only the physical levels of TSfejjind so carry people through
the monotony of existence to the grave. But if they are born
qfjrreat andjnoble desires, they draw upward. It is not at all
difficult to find these high levels ;
and even to find associates
among people who occupy higher stations in life. In your
friendships and affiliations do not stoop ;
but rather rise.
Out of this habit of looking upward and forward comes the
Spirit of Initiative. This seems on its face like some fanciful
dream. But it is just as practical as the Spirit of Personal
improvement that we discussed in the preceding lesson. Let
us look at what it can do, by again visiting the place of employ-
ment where young men may choose their own fate by their
determination to add magnetic values to themselves. We
359
360 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
will cite two little histories that came to our personal attention
many years ago.
A young man who had risen to the position of a salesman,
and who was given by his employer full power to allow credit
to buyers, or to deny credit, or after having allowed it, to cut
it off, found that the country was on the verge of a widespread
business panic. He did what no other salesman did as far as
his thoroughness went. He had a list of all the concerns and
individuals who sought credit of his employer. The great
mercantile agency that was employed at a yearly cost at that
time of twenty pounds, had not been called upon to furnish
reports outside of its general publication and occasional
bulletins. This young man asked privatejreports on each
and every debtor of his employer ;
and followed this request
every month ; paying the extra cost when it was incurred.
The result was that he was enabled to_eliminate every debtor
who was verging on bankruptcy, to deny further credit, to
collect what was due, and to close their accounts. When the
full blast of the panic struck the business of the nation, which
occurred in less than a year, not a shilling was lost through
bad debts to this employer. The young man had carried on
his investigations without beingtold to do so, without informing
his employer what he was doing, and with the utmost discretion
from beginning to end. When the employer came through
unscathed, he learned of the long and very tedious campaign
of the young salesman, and in time made him a partner, when
the business assumed its normal prosperity.
This is the Spirit of Initiative.
It was the right thing to do. But no other salesman did it.
It was taking the initiative. Even the employer would not
have thought of doing it or of ordering it to be done.
Another instance of the same spirit came to our attention
many years ago. In a certain city, the business of which was
largely devoted to one kind of manufacture, namely, the
making of shoes, there were a number of goat and kid con-
cerns engaged competitively in supplying their goods to the
shoe concerns. The salesrooms were piled up with great
supplies, from which the buyers from the shoe factories were
enabled to select the kinds and quantities they desired. In
order to meet with the exact demands of these buyers, a
MAGNETIC INITIATIVES tfl
targe assortment of goat and kid skins were carried in stock
that were not saleable in the dull years.
A young man who had risen to the position of head sales-
man of one of these leather concerns, seeing the loss entailed
by the practice of carrying many thousands of skins for which
there was no^steady demand, adopted the following course
without the knowledge of his employer : He made a tour of
enquiry among all the shoe manufacturers, noting in a book
the information he obtained, which included the number of
skins generally required each year, the kinds, the grades, the
styles of finish and other details of importance. He also
learned the time of year each of these would be needed. He
then made a monthly tour of these places in order to keep in
touch with them. It so happened that a large majority of
the concerns visited were the regular customers of his com-
petitors, and wore riot inclined to deal with him on that
account. He met this objection by arranging with the factories
which he represented to produce the grades, kinds and finishes
that were to be required by the shoe manufacturers ;
so that
when they could not find exactly what they needed elsewhere,
they were compelled to buy of him.
The result of this method was that his employer no longer
carried useless stocks ;
and was able t^ dispose of all the goods
that his factories could produce. More thai?, this, the business
grew steadily and became very profitable. The employer asked
his salesman how he happened to think of the plan that had
proved so successful. The latter said,
ci
I found myself idling
away hours of time daily with a very dull business. I had time
to slip out and visit the offices of the buyers. I had to choose
between doing this or really doing nothing. What moved me
most was the fact that so many grades were being carried in
order to meet the requirements of the trade ;
and I thought if
we could know what the coming demands were to be, we could
make our goods for such demands. It succeeded."
Some years ago we put the question to a large number of
business men, asking them how many kinds of initiative of the
true kind they could think of as possible in their business, and
they admitted that they had never thought of such efforts in
the right way ;
but the result of the enquiry was that they
could see at least five hundred important steps could be taken
362 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
in advancing their interests. Some mentioned one or two ;
others many more ;
and a few as many as fifty different
methods of betterment. Once their minds were started
thinking in the right direction, they made great progress.
All employees hold in their own hands their fate and their
future ; but initiatives are not confined to this class. Employers
have come to see a great light. Professional men and women
have done the same. The whole secret consists in waking up
to begin with, and in looking present conditions in the face ;
then matching every present condition with what it would
be if it were made better. Some persons are rather favoured
by a spirit of insight into possibilities that escapes others.
Henry Clay Frick rose from a boyhood of poverty to become
Carnegie's most valuable assistant, solely by his insight into
the possibilities of initiative activity.
It is a splendid training, this habit of looking for ways of
betterment. It is valuable in home life and in personal self-
improvement. But whenever started, it sheds an influence
on all departments of daily existence, and reaches out in many
directions. It is magnetic because it leads the way to success.
Millions of minds are apparently dead to-day in lives that are
stagnant, that might be aroused by this spirit, and become
tremendous factors in building new hopes.
We have in this lesson dealt with business matters, but the
same principle of magnetic initiatives will apply with equal
force and value to all the relationships of life. The most
inviting field for such endeavour is in the home. There is
too much routine there ;
too many days of constantly repeated
humdrum existence ;
too little real home-interest by the
husband, and a consequent loss of interest by the wife. A
sweeping improvement may be made if one or both will adopt
the magnetic initiatives, and awaken a vital desire to make
the home mean all that its name should imply and inspire.
Then a new world will be discovered.
LESSON SIXTY-SEVEN
MAGNETIC MARGINS
THE
STUDY OP LIFE is as endless as are the activities
of life. We come now to a different line of practice,
which may be summed up in a few words. Always
retain some margin in everything. There are other meanings
for the same word, but in our study we refer solely to progress
or distance in what we do. There are other ways of stating
it, that do not convey all that is intended. Thus we might
say, never reach the limit. Or, keep back some power. Or,
display a reserved and repressed energy. There are still
other ways of saying some part of the same thing. But the
fact is that no person remains magnetic who does not leave
some margin in everything.
Examples are very numerous, and only a few can be given.
If you rise from the table with your appetite fully satisfied,
you are weaker than if you had risen slightly hungry. In any
physical effort, if you use the last ounce of your strength, you
weaken yourself. In making an address, as where the inex-
perienced lawyer speaks to the court, if he throws into it all
his vitality, he soon tires those who hear him. We once had
the pleasure of studying the methods of a great advocate who
was struggling to win a case in which his client was entitled
to victory, but which was combated by almost insurmountable
opposition aided by a combination of influences that seemed
too great to be overcome. This lawyer in his final address
seemed to have reached his limit of power, but a reserved force
was apparent ; this he drew upon, and again seemed to have
reached his limit, when a new degree of energy was apparent,
and so on step by step until he reached heights of magnetism
that towered above all opposition ;
and he won. He after-
wards told us that at no time did he reach a limit ;
and that
accounted for his constant increase of power.
363
364 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
Satiety in any form is not only not magnetic, but it is
destructive of what magnetism has already been acquired.
In a life of ambition there is always the zest of striving for
victory ;
but let one's ambitions be fully realized, then the
zest is gone. Wealth won after a struggle is stale. AJdfejrf
ease is wholly devoid of magnetism. The greatest form of
happiness is the striving after something not yet attained.
In courtship and marriage this law runs true at all times
and in many ways. A margin is always magnetic here ;
and
marriage is the greatest and most extensive institution in the
world. Courtship is supposed to consist of the effort of the
man to win the consent of the woman to marry him. When
! this phase of it is true, as long as the prize has not been attained,
it is highly valued ;
but when attained .ancLaLjense of owner-
shig^ follows,_the value_js lessened.- On the other hand, the
general fact is that the man is sought by the woman where he
is above the average of his sex ;
but it is not always the case
that he knows it. She may lead him on by an appeal to his
appetite of one kind or another. If no margin is left in the
winning of him, then as soon as he realizes that satiation has
been reached, he loses his interest.
It is an old philosophy that teaches women to keep suitors
far enough away to prevent reaching the limit. A courtship
that reaches the climax before marriage generally falls to
pieces. It is the lure of the unattainable that draws a man
towards a woman ;
never the satiety of the attainable. By
following this rule, many a woman has exerted a substitute for
magnetism that has won a good husband ;
whereas had she
given herself unreservedly to the man, he would have tired of
her ;
and if he tired of her before marriage he would have done
so most decidedly afterwards. There is a great fascination
which a man has for a woman whom he cannot approach to
'the limit, which is wholly lost when she permits him to approach
her prior to wedlock.
In displays of affection whether before or after marriage,
satiety kills the desire or lessens it. Too much personal handling
of a woman by a man leads her to ask either orally or silently
if he will not please stop gauging
her over. She thinks it, if she
does not speak it. Too much kissing or embracing may reach
satiety and cease to be desired keenly. It is better to leave
MAGNETIC MARGINS 365
a margin. After maniage^fiatiety inihe gexual_ agpetite which
is reached by the^man more readily than by the woman, kills
tEe^magnetism of love more quickly than anyl^hWlnHuence
in lile. The man at once becomes unattractive, seems selfish,
sluggish, irritable, exhausted, and not the same being who once
told her that she was the most adorable woman in the world and
he could not exist without her. In his state of satiety he seems
to bristle all over with the thought of don't touch me, I'm tired
of the sight of you. This satiety is the cause of nearly all the
quarrels of marriage ;
for it opens the way to ill-natured dis-
cussions in which the man thinks himself free to say what he
pleases to hurt his wife's feelings, since now he owns her and
can let loose his natural self, which he concealed in the glare of
courtship.
The wife is always attractive to the husband as long as he
desires her companionship ;
and he can keep her attractive for
a lifetime by learning the simple lesson of so mastering himself
as never to reach the point of satiation. He then becomes a
different being ;
and to him she is far different. It is a self-
apgarent fact that s^^uaj,...fijfttjfttSL completely expels magnetism
Jrom the individual. .If it preceded any great effort as where
a public speaker sought to sway a vast audience, failure of the
most dismal kind would be the result. By the same process,
the keen edge of love and the joy of companionship are lost in
married life.
Desire is magnetic when there are true values to exchange.
The unmagnetic people of the world always seek to reach
every limit in matters in which they engage. If they enjoy
dancing, they must overdo it and carry it into the early hours
of the morning. Many a woman who is seeking her living by
employment, instead of trying to improve herself for higher
stations in life, runs her vitality to shreds by late hours at
night, and yawns away the following days in a mental con-
dition unfit for genuine work. Married couples waste too many
night hours in excess of card-playing, stopping only when the
limit of time is reached ;
not knowing that a reasonable
attention to any pleasure is better than such excess.
Margins may become very magnetic by reason of their
fascinating power of arousing the keenest interest in life. Take
for instance the argument made by a man and his wife that all
366 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
money that comes in shall be subjected to a regular budget, by
which the expenses shall be kept less than the receipts. Both
know at the end of every month how much has come in, how
much has gone out, what remains, and the plan of saving this
margin between the receipts and the expenditures. Then things
that he would otherwise have bought will be found not needed ;
and the same with her. Where such margins have been secured
in married life, if reports that have come to us may be said to
indicate the general facts, there have been none of the mis-
understandings and consequent ill-feelings that occur when
husband and wife are not fully cognizant of the financial
conditions that prevail in their home.
We have in mind a cottage built twenty-five years ago,
planned by husband and wife the year before they were married,
a little six-room house, with a small gar3en in front and a good-
sized garden in the rear, in which both took part when the land
needed to be cultivated ;
and six neat little rooms inside the
house, bright and attractive ; being gradually paid for as the
husband's business prospered, until all debts were paid, and a
goodly sum now is invested in bonds and mortgages ;
the result
of severe struggles and self-denial in their first years of wedlock,
in which the wife made as many sacrifices as the husband, all
the while seeking firmly to preserve the margin that made this
success possible. They have a married daughter who with her
husband is following this same law of margin ;
not flippantly
wasting all they receive, but building for the happiness of the
future.
These cases are not rare. Thanks to the study of magnetism
they are becoming more and more numerous. There is a
solidity and permanency to all marriages that are brought
under the influence of the margins to which we have referred.
The result is the solidity of the home institution, and the per-
manency of home life and happiness. By consultation with the
Truth-Teller which is described a few lessons prior to this, the
countless mistakes that make all living wretched are avoided ;
for all future possibilities and certainties are made clear.
LESSON SIXTY-EIGHT
THE VANISHING ILLUSION
MARRIED
LIFE, as has been said, is the most exten-
sive and most numerous institution in the world.
JFpr this reason it should be made the basis of the
greatest uses of personal magnetism. Centuries ago when
wives did hot often leave their husbaiids, they were not held
to marriage by love any more than to-day, but by compulsion.
There are some tribes and castes of peoples even in these times
that require the death of the wife as the necessary fulfilment of
her marriage vows in case her husband should die. Gradually
going backward in time in our own history we drift to the same
tendency in spirit at least ;
and the placing of the woman on
the same level of freedom with the husband to-day is the newest
phase of human progress.
This equality and perfect freedom of the sexes are gradually
changing all the old standards of marriage. Wives may now
work in offices and places of business, and support themselves
if they so choose ;
and in the large cities the ties of wedlock are
so very thin and attenuated that a wife is at liberty to associate
in almost any way she pleases with the husband of some other
woman. The result of this ultra freedom is that almost all
marriages are either falling apart, or the parties drift away by
the law of counter attractions. Years ago the motive for
marriage was the desire of the wife for a home and support, and
the wish of the man for a housekeeper." Now the woman is
able to support herself, and the man finds that his wife is not
willing to cook or keep house, or manage his home for him.
No other magnet is active in bringing men and women
together except the sexual appetite ; young men and women
are rapidly learning that this magnet need not lead to wedlock.
The question then arises, why should a man and woman
marry. One other magnet remains, and that is what is called
367
368 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
love. Buit is anemqtin that
is laved, as soon as
Elusion vanishes, love flees^jespecially in this age of freedom,
equafitjTofthe sexes, and easy divorce. Ofevery one hundred
love-marriages, not more than two remain love-marriages, even
where the couples live together. The question still pursues us,
why marry ?
The answer is : Do not allow the illusion to vanish.
Of what is the illusion composed ? Take the case of the
man who has been placed on a high pedestal during courtship,
because his fiancee believes him to be what he has seemed to her
to be. She was led to believe that he was neat, clean, attractive
in body and mind, and of good disposition. These are not
impractical dreams ;
for they might have been what they pur-
ported to be. What poorer investment is there in wedlock
than the easy readiness to cast off neatness, cleanliness,
physical attractiveness, mental attractiveness and a winning
disposition ? The husband may not think it matters much
that he has not visited a dentist for months, that his teeth are
decaying and give out a terribly offensive odour, that they are
infected at the roots by ulcers that poison the blood, and that
his tonsils are emitting pus that flows forward in the mouth
and lubricates his kisses. It is said by dentists that nine in
every ten men who are married to refined women are afflicted
in the manner just stated. How can it be possible that
women retain any love or even respect for such husbands ? The
woman is equally guilty, but not in so large a number of cases.
Then comes the bad breath odour that attends men and
women who are suffering from intestinal poisoning ;
which
malady also causes all catarrhs and all forms of body odour.
Nor is the bath visited often enough. Neglect in dressing and
in personal refinement plays a large part hi the losing of love.
Men and women were not made equal in the sense of being
like each other in qualities and attributes. The man who is
mentally virile and morally upright, is the best ideal ;
and the
woman who is morally upright and mentally beautiful is the
best ideal in her sex. Masculinity in women is not Nature. By
birth she is a creature of refinement, daintiness, purity and
sweetness ;
and only her hard struggles in life or her inherent
wantonness can estrange her from these qualities. The
THE VANISHING ILLUSION 369
husband who maintains his status as virile and upright, is never
likely to lose the love of his wife if she is normal morally ;
provided he gives due attention to the matters we have dis-
cussed on the previous page. The wife who maintains her
status as refined, dainty, pure and sweet, who cultivates a
beautiful mind and is morally upright, is secure in her husband's
love, provided she gives attention to the matters to which we
have referred.
But magnetism includes an exchange of Values in marriage ;
and these are not appeals to the Appetites. One Patrician
Value on the part of the wife requires that she shall retain her
place in Natur^ in all respects. Another Value of this order is
her willingness to prove a real helpmate to her husband ;
to
offer him her aid in all things ;
and to be a real partner in the
contract. He should never leave home in the mornings without
having laid aside all selfishness, all disinclination to assist her
in her duties, all hasty disregard of the things that interest her.
Mutual interests are Values, and these should be interchanged.
The least little thing that absorbs the attention of the wife
should not be too small to attract the attention of the husband.
Mutual consultations are useful. When he comes to the home
at noon, or especially at the close of the day, her work should be
his work ;
her weariness should be lifted by his assistance, for
it is gross selfishness on his part to lounge around reading a
paper that yields him no mental value, while she plods through
the evening finishing her work.
The best test of magnetism and continued interest is the
readiness of husband and wife to devote their spare time to
each other ; or, if to others, then in each other's companion-
slup. We know of a couple who were married fifty years and
who in all that time were never separated any evening. They
had all the pleasures of society, friends, parties, theatre, opera,
travel and holidays ;
but never found it necessary to spend
any evening or night apart. And they were supremely happy.
Loyalty in marriage is a Patrician Value. It is magnetic. It
alsolTtands as the noblest of virtues. If a man must continu-
ally go out night after night after marriage, he should have
remained single. Affiliations between married men and men who
are not married are antagonistic to those higher affiliations
that should exist between husband and wife. The moment a
24
370 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
married woman forms a close personal and confidential friend-
ship with some other woman, with her husband in the back-
ground of her affection, she becomes disloyal to him.
Husband and wife should be good friends with each other,
perpetual associates, steady pals, with openness of mind and
exchange of confidence, making all their plans together, hunt-
ing in each other's thoughts for the themes that are dominant
and the interests that are most alive ;
never saying or doing
anything that shall in the least hurt the feelings of the other ;
never taking umbrage at any remark or incident ; forgiving
freely ; yielding gracefully ; refusing to antagonize ; never
becommg^ silent or stubbornly diffident ; cultivating
sympathy, brightnessTTTopefulness and o^imisift--iuider_all
circumstances ;
and forming the mental determination to place
loyalty to each other above all other considerations in life.
There have been such marriages, and they have been magnetic ;
they have been blessed in the highest degree ;
and have served
as stepping-stones through the journey of earthly existence,
on, on to a world of unending rewards.
The first two pages of this lesson teach matters that cannot
be neglected ; for even if all the finer qualities exist, and there
are evidences of the presence of the coarser ones, the latter will
submerge the former.
In the preceding paragraph we have mentioned a phase of
personal magnetism called mental determination ;
and as this
is the key to all accomplishment in life, we will devote the next
lesson to its consideration.
In bringing the present theme to a close, we will recall the
old saying that a chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Whether in marriage or in other forms of human association,
if there is a weak link in the character of the individual, the
whole structure is likely to fall. Thus if either husband or
wife exhibit a single serious fault, the illusion may vanish in
a flash. The prevention of this disaster may be secured by
forming the mental habit of self-study at all times. This is the
most valuable asset in the life of any person.
LESSON SIXTY-NINE
MENTAL DETERMINATION
ATHIS COURSE OF INSTRUCTION approaches its
end, the two most important themes are to be con-
sidered. In a book of this size it is not possible to
include the analysis of the mental powers with which humanity
has been endowed. For centuries preceding our era, in the
old Greek ascendency, the existence of a mental power beyond
that of the ordinary faculty of reasoning was taught and
exemplified. Then the idea slept until a few decades ago
when many evidences arose to set savants thinking and in-
vestigating. The result was the claim that a subconscious
mind was a part of the mental equipment of humanity.
To-day this claim is universally approved.
In other works the distinction between the physical mind
which operates through the cerebrum, and the psychic mind
which operates through the meninges or brain membranes, is
fully discussed and proved. But it has always been our belief
that, whatever this distinction may be, the only facts that
matter are those that appear as results, not processes ; and
that names and theories are of less value than actualities. In
any event it is this distinction that now interests us, as we
approach the study of mental determination. We have seen
in the early part of this book that a setness of the muscles is
non-magnetic ;
and that a setness of the physical mind, or
process of reasoning that operates through the cerebrum, is
obstinacy, and is therefore non-magnetic.
It is a common trait of teachers and advisers to tell ambitious
men and women that whatever they make up their minds to do,
they will do ;
and what they will to accomplish, they will ac-
complish. This sounds all right, but has rarely ever succeeded.
It is true that persistent hammering at one object sooner or
later brings the desired results, if no obstacles of an insurmount-
371
37* INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
able nature interfere. Yet, on the other hand, if the will-power
is operating through the subconscious faculty it rarely fails.
To generals who lived in the centuries preceding the time of
Napoleon, there were Alps, and they were obstacles that could
not be overcome. To him there were no Alps ;
his keener
mind saw the way to pass them.
When the mind is set through the operation of the physical
processes of thinking, and this setness persists for a time, it be-
comes an obsession, or disease. Setness means fixed position.
Thus obstinacy is a disease, for it is a fixed attitude of the
mind. Thinking always on one leading subject is a disease.
Unchanging belief founded on nothing but belief, or blind faith,
is an obsession, and is most repellent, driving away friends
and admirers. Political fixedness in place of statesmanship
is likewise an obsession and non-magnetic.
The difference between a set purpose of the physical mind
working through the cerebrum, and mental determination
working through the subconscious faculty, is that the former
is fixed and immovable, while the latter always progresses or
goes forward. The mule stands still when he is obstinate.
His brain is set, determined, but makes no headway.
The only absolutely certain method by which the subcon-
scious faculty may be recognized is that which takes the con-
scious mind into the last stage of wakefulness at night ;
for
every psychologist and physician who has experimented along
these lines knows that the subconscious mind is always alert
and on the verge of recognition at that moment when the
conscious or working mind is
lapsing into unconsciousness,
which occurs at th& time stated,; pr when sleep is coming on.
It is then that the most remarkable cures have been made
through therapeutic suggestion irf hospitals and sanatariums.
It has been proved many times that any form of mental
determination that invites progressive action and not fixedness,
that is given expression in the mind during the last moments of
wakefulness at night, if founded on a careful development of
the power of magnetism as taught in this book, will bring the
results desired. The best preparation for this practice, which
should be made a habit, is to read this book through twice
slowly and with great attention^all that it teaches. FoUowing
such reading^the m^sVp^owerfunDaethod that can be adopted
MENTAL DETERMINATION 373
is to|meinorize|the thirteentHlesson, which deals with Mental
Magnitucie
fter thesesteps have been taken, and after all the advice and
suggestions of that lesson have been carried into effect, the next
thing to do is to take into the subconscious mind at night the
full determination to achieve some great work, or to win some
great end ; or, if minor matters are important, work them out
by the same process, ^a^cafl^sg^re every student who fol^awa
thigplan that success will be attained. ^
Not many years ago a
^greaf^FfeHcFpsyclioiogist came to this country and performed
some remarkable cures by this process. He made the state-
ment that where a certain mental belief was given oral expres-
sion, the sound of the voice reflected in the brain would be taken
up and be given actual life in the entire
jiervous system. But
this method failed a hundred times where it succeeded once ;
the fault being that the physical mind alone operated. Tests
were made with the subconscious mind in the manner we have
stated herein, and there were one hundred victories for every
single failure ; just reversing the ratio. Thus if a person who
has mastered this course of instruction will form some purpose
in his mind, and give it utterance in spoken words, no matter
how faintly they are uttered, at the mom^^of follmg^asleep
at night, the several natural laws that we have described will
operate to bring results.
The only way of knowing for a fact whether this method will
succeed is to give it a thorough trial. When physicians,
hospital doctors and psychological scientists put such methods
to the test and follow them up to get results, and do actually
get results of the highest importance to the world, no sensible
person will treat them lightly.
It, however, is not merely in the use of the last waking
moments at night that this power is employed. That is only
a developing practice. As soon as the faculty is recognized, it
may be used at any time of the day or anywhere, and in any
way. But it must be kept moving. Avoid fixedness. We
have seen a little lawyer, weighing less than nine stone, drive
out of a building a bailiff who had a legal right there ;
and no
force was used. He started and kept moving, like a stampede
limited to one objective. It was mental determination. We
have recently concluded the history of a couple who had been
374 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
unhappily married, both of whom took up this study in order
to find a remedy for their marital failure ;
and both developed
in the highest degree this power of mental determination and
applied it to the suggestions and matters contained in the pre-
ceding lesson, which is entitled The Vanishing Illusion. The
success has been one of the most pleasing and complete we have
ever known. They were too proud to live apart, and too
honourable to seek a divorce that would have brought a life-
time of unhappiness to their children ;
so they suffered in
secret as far as the outside world was concerned, and now they
have no more anxieties.
We know of more than one hundred recent cases of employees
who have bettered themselves by the same power of mental
determination ;
and scores of business men who were drifting
down grade but who have since begun to win success.
Many requests have reached us as to what are the best themes
on which to practise mental determination ;
and invariably
we advise those that are contained in the seventy-three lessons
of this book. But Mental Magnitude Regime stands in the
most important of appositions in this regard. It is contained
in Lesson Thirteen ;
and that lesson is a magnet in itself.
Charles Spurgeon, who claimed that his prayers were always
answered, said that he never prayed with his brain, nor with
his physical thoughts ;
at that time very little had been dis-
covered of the subconscious mind, so that he made no reference
to that faculty ;
but he stated his firm belief that he possessed
an inner self that outranked his thinking brain ;
and it was with
this innerjself that he prayed, and won answers to his prayers.
Faith when genuine, which is rarely the case, dwells in this
inner self which to-day is fully recognized as the subconscious
faculty. There is a kind of faith that emanates from the think-
ing mind, which is the reasoning power of the brain ;
but such
faith never rises higher than firm belief ;
and all belief, if true,
is founded on facts that are apparent to the conscious mind.
No normal person says that he believes something unless he has
some basis of fact for such credence. Faith, when genuine, is
riever founded on facts, but on subconscious knowledge ;
aricf
as such is far more likely to be well founded than the usual
conclusions called belief. Mental determination, when using
the mind of faith, carries its results into far realms. Those
MENTAL DETERMINATION 375
who heard Spurgeon pray felt that he was demanding an answer
by the strong assertiveness of his voice.
Cures have been wrought by mental determination in the
form of faith emanating from the subconscious mind ;
but this
faith has generally been exercised by the person causing the
cure. Occasionally it is true that the patient is able to cure
himself by faith, but it must be accompanied by mental deter-
mination, not by belief coming from the reasoning mind.
We have knowledge of many cases where unruly children, who
could not be controlled by nurses and governesses, have been
effectively managed by those who have developed mental
determination. Some years ago we recorded the case of a
country school, the bullying boys of which had caused several
teachers to leave until a young man who had developed this
power took charge ;
and during his several years of teaching
there, not one attempt was ever made to annoy him. In
explaining the circumstance, a boy who has since become a
successful merchant says :
"
The first moment our new teacher
entered the school, he walked among us, looked at us, talked
kindly but very firmly to us, and we liked him because we felt
and seemed to know that he would not permit any fooling. So
we stopped it, and began to learn our lessons/' The teacher
told us his account in a few words :
"
I went there with the firm
resolve, no matter what happened, to be master first, last and
always ;
and I was."
Mental determination always wins.
But this power is most effective in making a man or woman
supreme over the influences that lead them into mistakes and
disasters through an appeal to their appetites, or their inclina-
tions. It is said that the greatest evil in the life of a person is
the willingness to drift along from day to day aimlessly. They
let matters take care of themselves ;
and this is something that
never happens in the right way ;
otherwise life would not be
crowded with failures and disappointments. The mind is the
engineer of the body ;
and it is the duty of every engineer to
direct and control the power that is placed in his charge. The
directing and controlling agency must hold sway at all times.
DEPARTMENT OF
MAGNETIC HEALING
LESSON SEVENTY
METHODS OF HEALING
ABRIEF BUT IMPORTANT department will close this
extended study of personal magnetism. Because our
title seems familiar it must not be assumed that old
methods are to be presented here. Too much of the imagina-
tion has been brought into play by the kind of healing that
has been called mental and sometimes magnetic. In our
system we do not leave anything to the flights of fancy or to
the beliefs that have been fed by the suggestions of others ;
but each and every step in this line is scientifically demon-
strated as practical and useful for the purposes for which it
is intended ;
and has a basis as exact as any proposition in
mathematics.
There are two sides to the question of healing ;
one relates to
the efforts of the patient to heal himself. There are many cases
of extraordinary weakness where the sick man may give up, or
may assist in effecting a cure. There are plenty of instances
where the desire to die is rewarded by such an end. On the
other hand the incentive to live is furnished by some great love,
some reciprocated affection, or some material advantage. These
experiences show that the patient holds some of the power of a
cure in his disposition to help. There are many familiar cases
where the exercise of great will-power has prolonged life, and
even effected a final cure. We recall the recent episode of a
mother who, on seeing her little child, said,
"
I must live for
her sake." This experience has been repeated many times, as
shown by the reports of doctors.
It is said of a well-known Queen that, on learning of the
376
METHODS OF HEALING 377
sacrifice of her troops in a certain war, she took to her room
and expressed a desire to die, and her death followed very soon.
History indicates that Queen Elizabeth, on ascertaining that her
lover had been executed by reason of the treachery of a rival,
lost the desire to live and died almost immediately. Edison, in
a published statement, recites the fact that his grandfather, after
passing the age of a hundred, declared that he was tired of living,
went to his room, undressed, got into bed, and died by act of his
will-power.
"
There was nothing the matter with him," said the
inventor.
These facts being accepted as true, it is the duty of those in
charge of patients to study what purposes and desires are at
work in the minds of those who are critically ill ;
for they often
swing the scales one way or the other.
Our present study relates rather to the influences of the doctor
or attendant over the case, and not so often in fatal instances
as in ordinary sickness where recovery may be hastened. There
are professional healers who call themselves faith doctors,
meaning that if they can arouse sufficient belief in the minds of
patients they can effect a cure ;
but they must be able to exert
a positive influence in themselves and transfer such power to
the patients in order to prove magnetic. There are others who
are known as mental healers who make use of their own faculties
in efforts to bring about cures ;
and others who seek to arouse a
mutual mental effort in patient and healer. With these we
have nothing to do.
We seek to enhance and increase the natural, everyday powers
of doctors, nurses, attendants and members of the family by the
practical use of those gifts that Nature bestows on every one
in more or less degree. These values appear in the voice, in the
eyes, in the touch, in the face, and in the presence of the person
who will be referred to here as the healer, although there is no
intention of educating any one for the profession of doctor or
healer. It simply comes down to this : There are endless
opportunities for all persons to assist in saving others when the
crises arise. The presence of a person is magnetic when it
follows the laws of the Sixth and Seventh Departments of this
book. The face is magnetic when it follows the laws of Mental
Magnitude and of Mental Determination ;
the one in the Second
Department, and the other in the Ninth Department of this
3?8 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
book. The eyes are magnetic when they follow the laws of the
Third Department.
This leaves for our consideration only the voice and the
touch.
Every great teacher of singing knows of and employs the
law of mental placement of the voice in developing it. In
ordinary Nature the placing or impinging of the voice in the
throat is animal, coarse, rough, ugly, repellent and non-magnetic.
These facts we have taught fully in the Eighth Department.
Great teachers, especially in Europe where they are the most
thorough, insist upon the forward placing of all tones, which
means the impinging of the voice against the front upper palate ;
and this they accomplish by a double method ;
one that drops
the back of the tongue, lowers the larynx and raises the soft
palate ;
the other solely by the action or attention of the mind,
for which reason it is called the mental tone as distinguished
from the animal or physical tone in the throat.
Mentality of this kind is located in the forward brain, the
cerebrum, so that the voice that is cultivated is controlled by
this organ ;
while the animal or physical tones are controlled by
the animal brain or cerebellum.
The subconscious mind is known not to be located or con-
trolled by either brain ;
but the character and activities of the
meninges or brain linings account for the presence there or
control by that part of the subconscious mind. It is an ac-
cepted fact that all organs of the body are governed by their
membranes, on the health of which the normal functioning of
such organs depends. It is also known that disordered meninges
or brain membranes will cause insanity, crime, low moral
practices, and all manner of evil ;
while the perfect health of
these membranes will lead to exactly opposite conditions ;
and
the building up of great magnetic powers in these membranes
will induce the activities of genius, inspiration and the most
extraordinary control over all persons. Experiments made and
being made in hospitals and by experts show results that are
pronounced marvellous.
Luther Burbank, after receiving instruction or aid from one
of the greatest of European psychologists, made the public
statement that he had accomplished cures among others that
were almost unbelievable, and which if seen would astound the
METHODS OF HEALING 379
world. He was not only exceedingly magnetic, but had used
his higher faculties in his wizardry of the plant world. Other
persons are doing fully as much as he had done, but without
making their work public.
As the mental voice is impinged forward against the front
upper palate, and the animal voice against the throat, so the
subconscious voice is impinged against the soft palate, which is
high up, or should be, in the upper throat. This is the dark
quality taught in the Eighth Department. It is a dark, smooth
tone, made softly as if imitating distant thunder, using the word
"
Roll
"
for the purpose. When established it is called the
subconscious voice ;
and this fact is verified by the practice of
doctors who employ therapeutic suggestion as a means of cure.
An expert says that ^ ^ ^
"
The voice in healing must be low, cultured and caressing ."
Such a voice is easily acquired especially by a person who is
magnetic. Doctors, nurses, attendants and friends should
develop tones that are low, cultured and caressing ;
and these are
readily acquired in our Eighth Department. No one would for
a moment think of using the coarse, repellent and ugly throat
tones ;
nor the mentally bright and metallic forward tones ;
which leaves nothing but the subconscious voice that impinges
on the soft palate and is controlled by the operations of that
faculty.
Such a voice when used by a person on himself, accomplishes
all the results that have been claimed for self-suggestion ;
but
when directed on behalf of another it is even more helpful ;
but
should be charged with a message directed by a living, moving
purpose, and impelled by the full force of mental determination.
It must not be empty of ideas, nor a drifting, purposeless
proceeding.
LESSON SEVENTY-ONE
DEATH AND LIFE
THE
SYSTEM OF HEALING is completely interwoven
in all the lessons of this book, for which reason all we
can advance is a suggestion or two concerning the
methods by which it may be applied ;
and the lesson just pre-
ceding this tells in a few words the whole story of procedure.
But the matter of the magnetic touch remains for discussion.
Almost invariably when a man or woman discovers the
possession of the natural power of magnetic healing, the
attempt is made to use it in a vigorous manner, which involves
great tensing of the muscles and nerves. There is no magnetism
in a set condition of the muscles or of the nerves. Setness of
mind, as has been shown in Lesson Sixty-Nine on Mental
Determination, is non-magnetic. The results are as wide
apart as the poles between tensed set nerves, and moving tensed
nervous flow. The magnetic touch is of the latter chaFacteF.
In the Sixth Department we have shown the difference
between setness in tensing and flow in tensing ;
and the best of
all tests is the ability to tense slowly and gradually the whole
arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and while the hand hangs
limp and the fingers can be shaken about like so many ends of
rags. One of the finest and best of all habits is that which
employs this method of slowly tensing the arm with the hand
limp, and then stroking some part of the body of a patient who
is suffering from pain, as of a headache, by passing the limp
hand very gently over the part, all the while allowing the flow
of nervous energy that is checked at the wrist to come into the
hand, and gradually into the finger-tips. In this instance there is
an actual magnetic current passing from one person to the other ;
and when accompanied by the voice of healing which is
"
low,
cultured and caressing," the effect is instantaneous ; although
we have been informed of many cases where only the magnetic
380
DEATHANDLIFE 381
touch has been employed ; and in our own experience in the past
forty-five years such cases are too numerous to be even counted.
In the development of the voice that is
"
low, cultured and
caressing/' full attention should be given to the preceding lesson
which contains a vast amount of help in the fewest words
possible.
The battle of life must be fought against setness in all its
forms, for any thinking person can readily see that there is no
flow of a magnetic current unless there is a movement of it.
In magnetic healing the power of Mental Determination, if
it is kept a moving power, and not a set condition of the will,
is almost invincible. When this power is allied with the full
system of personal magnetism as taught in this book, the
combination means all that can be wished for by mind or heart,
and has no human limitations. For these reasons we strongly
advise every student of these pages to make this book the one
greatest companion of his or her life ;
to know it perfectly in
each and every one of its lessons ;
to become familiar with all its
teachings ;
to go through life with it closer to the activities of
daily existence than any other agency or influence ;
and to
never part with it or its aid.
When founded on such a basic structure, the employment of
the power of Mental Determination interwoven with all the
teachings of this book becomes a giant force in the life of the
individual. There have been many cases of the use of this
power when health, through carelessness, has brought some
strong man or woman to the verge of the grave. We have seen
desire to live whip this power into an almost unbelievable
energy. In one case which has been recorded in medical works,
a woman who was dying, but who did not know it, overheard
arrangements being made in an adjoining room for her funeral.
From a bed of supposed helplessness, she arose, rushed to the
next room, demanded the facts, was told that she was dying,
hurled the lie in the faces of those present, and proceeded to
dress. Twenty years afterwards, she was doing her own
housework.
Doctors enjoy reciting among themselves, and keeping from
the public, many extraordinary cases in which it is claimed
that the dead have arisen under the stress of the mental
determination of others, generally of loved ones and close friends;
382 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
but there are two kinds of death in the body. The engine of the
automobile
"
goes dead
"
when the machinery stops. When a
person dies solely because the machinery stops, as when he is
the victim of acute indigestion, drowning, shock, anaesthesia,
heart failure, asphyxia, neurasthenia and other causes, he is
called dead enough to bury although all that is needed is some
power to set in motion again the machinery of his life ; yet in
fact he is not dead enough to bury until the autopsy is begun or
the untimely activity of the embalmer is started on its course.
Doctors say that fully thirty-three per cent of all burials are
of persons whose life machineryTias merely stopped, but who
need only some power to set it going again.
Just think of it !
Yet this is the fact. And humanity is apparently helpless.
The remedy is in the establishing and endowment of a school of
healers, legalized and genuinely equipped for the practice of a
new profession, discarding the old pretences of the so-called
mental and magnetic healers, and coming down to the actual
science of Nature, tested and verified with mathematical
certainty, knowing the real processes required, and applying
them in a rational and effective manner. We are not teaching
that the actually dead person may be raised from the dead ;
but we do know that a person whose life machinery is in good
condition, but who is called dead because it has stopped its
activity, may be revived ;
and you may call it raising the dead,
or give it its proper name, reviving a living person before the
embalmer makes it a hopeless case.
Human beings, like plants, depend on vitality for their
existence. It has been said that one person who possesses an
excess of vitality, may impart much of that excess to another
person. By the law of electrical flow, the weaker may draw in
the stronger current.
The accounts of remarkable cases of reviving the apparent
dead that are told by doctors among themselves are, as far as
we have had the privilege of learning the facts, which is not
often, seemingly true. At least some physicians who are
sincere and trustworthy seem satisfied that they are true. A
case that is referred to by doctors as
"
typical," because it has
many similar cases to sustain its claims, is that of a man who
learned that his son was dying. By swift journeys he hurried
DEATHANDLIFE 383
to the scene, but arrived too late. The embalmer was there
about to begin his work of actual death. The first thing the
father did was to knock the undertaker down and out, and
throw his apparatus into the yard. He said afterwards,
"
I do
not know why I did this ;
but I did know that my son was not
dead. When I learned of his critical condition I was fully
determined that he should NOT DIE. A glow of light seemed
to shine in and around my body. Wherever I went, it kept
about me. When I came into the house and saw what was
about to be done, it was not frenzy but mental determination
that compelled me to take full charge of the matter. I do not
know why I knocked the undertaker down and kicked his
apparatus into the yard. I knew I must act quickly. I had but
one idea, that my son was alive, and that all he needed was
the strong force that I was enabled to exercise to arouse him."
It seems that the father stripped the body of his son, and,
stripping all clothing from his own body, that he took the son
into his warm, glowing embrace, and held him there, saying
over and over again that he was alive, he was alive, he was not
dead, he was not dead, he must begin to breathe, his heart
must begin to beat, the blood must begin to flow, the skin must
begin to get warm, life must come back for it lingered close at
hand ready to come back when given the opportunity ;
and
so he continued without ever losing hope or lessening his deter-
mination to win back the child of his love. It required time,
but he had no knowledge of the passing of the minutes. Nor
did he know how long he was there. Time was marked off,
not by the ticking of the clock but by the process of events ;
each event was an epoch ;
and each epoch the enacting of a
fate that came to him because he deserved it.
Soon the body of the son displayed returning warmth in its
surface ;
this was an epoch. Then the father knew that
victory was assured. The glow of the living organism passed
into the dead. It reached the heart, and then the lungs. The
eyes opened. The lips spoke,
"
FATHER !
"
LESSON SEVENTY-TWO
DOCTORS OF MAGNETISM
SOME
DAY all doctors and medical people will depend
on Nature as nearly as can possibly be done ; and
discard the use of chemicals to fight out one poison
with another, as the saying goes. It is remarkable, even in
this slightly advanced era in changing the methods of treat-
ment, to note the tendency to adopt the services of the source
of all magnetism, which is the sun.
At a certain Institution doctors are using split rays of the sun
in order to extract out of the most vital portion of those rays
the magnetism that Nature intends for bringing the spark of
life into human bodies. As is well known the sunbeam consists
of a series of rays. It was once supposed that the heat of the
sun furnished not only warmth but vitality. This has been
disproved. At one end of the spectrum is the red ray, and
beyond this is what is called the infra-red ray, which carries
the sun heat through glass ;
while at the other end of the
spectrum is the violet ray, beyond which is the invisible ultra-
violet ray, which carries all the magnetism from the sun, all
the vitality for plant life and for human life. This will not
pass through window glass.
Between the heat of the red ray and the vitality of the
violet ray are the destructive forces of the sun which, when too
greatly exposed, do injury. Doctors and governments, as well
as great hospitals, are now splitting the violet rays and making
use of its magnetism ;
for this is the source of all power both
of vitality and magnetism. The latter come from the ultra-
violet or invisible portion of the violet rays ;
while we look for
heat from the infra-red rays. This does not imply that there
is no warmth in the other parts of the sunbeam, but that other
forces come from the other rays, some of which are destructive,
384
DOCTORS OF MAGNETISM 3*5
some the sources of energy, and all capable of great activity
that is akin to heat.
In another way, but without realizing the fact, doctors have
for many years employed the magnetism of the sun in the use
of cod-liver oil. The codfish feeds at great depths in the sea,
rarely*"cbming into contact with the sunlight at the surface.
As a recompense, Nature provides for the storing in the liver
of great relative quantities of magnetism that is exactly like
that from the sun, but that is self-generated. It does not
come from the sunlight, but does come from the effects of
the sun in an indirect way.
IT IS SELF-GENERATED.
Poultry that are kept in the outdoor sun during the egg-
forming period, lay eggs that are charged and super-charged,
like cod-liver oil, with *tke same kiiiS. of magnetism, but get
it directly from the sun rays. Here are two results, both the
same, one from the sun itself, and one from self-generation
in a living creature ;
and both kinds of food furnish a curative
treatment in disease.
In a great hospital they are able to bring the ultra-violet
or magnetic rays of the sun through windows, but they make
use of panes of quartz-crystal that are worth almost their
weight in gold. This enables the doctors to treat patients
indoors, for the clothing must be removed for the body to absorb
this magnetism. Then arose the question, how can these
magnetic rays be obtained when the sun is not shining, and
during the night ? The answer was the invention of the quartz-
mercury lamp, which delivers the desired rays in unvarying
and reliable quantity. It is made of a tube containing mercury
vapour, through which an electric current is passed. It emits
light that is extraordinarily rich in the ultra-violet or magnetism
rays. The tube is made of pure quartz-crystal melted at a
very high temperature with an oxy-acetylene flame.
Thus we see that, while all magnetism comes originally from
the sun, it can be generated by a living creature, as we have
shown ;
and it can be summoned by the inventive genius of
man. If one living creature is given the power to self-generate
magnetism, it stands to reason that humanity shoulabe able
to do likewise. A certain Clinic for the cure of children not
only brings these little patients into the direct rays of the
25
386 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
sun, but includes in their medical diet a certain quantity of
cod-liver oil daily ;
thus making use of the same magnetic
vitality in two ways :
first, that which comes directly from the
sun ; and, second, that which Nature had provided the fish
as compensation for being deprived of the direct rays of light,
and the compensation, in this case, overran the needs. It
was one of Nature's excesses.
We have said at the beginning of this lesson that doctors will
some day depend on Nature. The letters that now read M.D.,
and that mean Doctor of Medicine, will some day read still
M.D., and indicate a new meaning Doctor of Magnetism.
The change has begun. The use of cod-liver oil is making
magnetism take part in many cures. The use of eggs, milk
and other foods that have come from the influence of the ultra-
violet or magnetic rays is feeding magnetism to the body ;
and
this practice is spreading everywhere very rapidly. Exposing
the body to the sun rays is another form of magnetic healing.
Drawing the sun-magnetism through quartz-crystal windows
is another form. And the use of the quartz-mercury lamp,
without reference to the sunlight, but by the
"
made-light
"
of the mercury-vapour tube, shows still another advance.
We have shown that this same form of magnetism is self-
generated in a living creature, and in great abundance, owing
to Nature's proneness to run to excess in some of her processes.
That almost every human being is endowed with the same
power of generating the kind of magnetism that brings life to
the body, and increases life in others, has been proved by the
teachings of this entire system, including every page of this
book. More than this, we will state that any student of this
work may readily acquire the power of helping others who are
deficient in vitality or who are suffering from disease.
The death of Luther Burbank called attention to his state-
ment that was published far and wide a few weeks before his
demise. He said :
"
I am frank to state that I have successfully applied this
power in from 200 to 300 cases, effecting cures constantly.
The result of these cures would make your hair stand on end,
if known." He refused to draw his patients into the light of
publicity, as some persons might misinterpret his motives.
He said his usual method in effecting cures was to take the
DOCTORS OF MAGNETISM 387
sufferer by one hand and place his other hand on the patient's
back. His work and results were vouched for by the scientist
and physician who probably stands at the head of his branch
of the medical profession of to-day, Dr. Konradi Leitner, Swiss
specialist. Dr. Leitner says of his first meeting with Burbank :
"
When I clasped his hand we both felt the flow of magnetism ;
and each one of us mentioned the thrill that we received
at the time."
A young woman, not thirty years of age, but surrounded with
all the luxuries that great wealth could bring her, refused to
marry a man who loved her ; stating as the excuse that she was
too frail for marriage, and probably was not long for this world.
It was a case of low vitality, not only of body but of the entire
system, accompanied by mental discouragement. Being a
church member, and entering into the social activities, she
took part one evening in a gathering, one of the festivities of
which placed her next to a young man, whose hand she was to
clasp. In so doing she felt a steady flow of vitality enter her
arm and travel through her body. The following statement
comes from the young man who had been an eager student of
this system of magnetism, and whose version was confirmed
by the lady herself :
"
When her hand clasped mine," he said,
"
I felt a strong
quiver of her arm, and a tightening of her hold. We were
strangers to each other until that time, although I had seen
her often. As soon as the game, as they called it, was over,
although the evening was very young, she asked me to take
her and her mother home. Arriving there, she made me the
surprising request that I act as her doctor, telling me that
my vitality or magnetism could alone restore her health. Her
mother joined in the request. The result can be surmised. We
grew to care for each other ; and, although I was poor and she
was rich, we were married ;
and neither has regretted it."
We were at one time teaching a large class in personal
magnetism and made the statement that each and every one of
our students would acquire by self-generation such a volume
of magnetism that it would have a decided curative power.
One lady asked the privilege of bringing a lady friend to the
next session, saying that this friend was very low in vitality
and was said to be hopelessly ill from nervous prostration.
388 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
No doctor was able to cure her, although she was amply able to
employ the best specialists. The friend came to the next
session. Among the students were some who were beginners,
some who had made partial progress, and some who were
well advanced. This friend was not told these facts, but
supposed all were of the same status in their progress.
As an experiment she took the hand of one who had developed
a high degree of magnetism, and at once reported the passing
of a decidedjmrrent from him to her body. Then she took the
hand of one who had not advanced far, and reported that she
felt but little effect. Next she took the hand of a beginner and
stated that she felt nothing whatever.
"
Now/' it was stated to
her,
"
you will take the hand of a novice who may some day be
very magnetic, but you will feel nothing now." She was given
the hand of the most advanced pupil in the class, and said
with alacrity,
"
You have made a mistake. This gentleman is
full of magnetism." Without detailing the history of sub-
sequent events, we need only say that she found a way to fully
recover her health, and one of our students found a beautiful
wife.
The world is entering upon the era of magnetism.
This is true of the curative systems of civilisation. All life,
all health, all vitality, come from the sun by one of two
processes : either from direct contact with the rays of that
orb, which cannot be had on cloudy days, or during the nights,
or in climes where the sun shines but little, and which, in
other climes where the sunlight is destructive, is too severe.
We have cited Nature's compensation in one case ;
and we
find a similar compensation in the case of humanity. To one
form of life she gave the power of self-generation of magnetism ;
to every man and woman she has given, in much higher form,
the same power of self-generation of magnetism ;
and it has
been the mission of this book to set forth that great gift, and
the natural and practical ways of acquiring it and of using it.
Any exhibition of power is magnetism.
To win success in any department of life is one of the goals
of magnetism, and that quality is taught in this work.
To rise above want, achieve financial independence, and live
in old age free from worry on account of reverses, is clearly a
mission of this power. In fact, most people believe they have
DOCTORS OF MAGNETISM 389
achieved the only real success in life when they place themselves
beyond want.
Yet every person should strive to win the perfect respect
and confidence of all others who are worth knowing. This also
is a valuable result of the practice of this power.
Still further in the struggle of existence is the mastery over
all the affairs of life in every department of one's being. Thus
we round out a successful career.
Thus far the battle has been fought against adversity and
failure ; yet, if we were to close this study without carrying the
struggle far enough to combat the one greatest of life, which is
disease, we would be remiss in our duty.
It is gratifying to know that the student of this system never
need seek help against sickness in person ;
as the very essence
of this training is automatically self-curing. This means that,
no matter how weak in vitality, or how deficient in health you
may be when beginning this study, as you proceed you will find
all traces of illness, all weakness, all ailments, even those that
are chronic, gradually disappearing. They pass away even as
the snows of the plains melt before the advance of spring. In
a history of forty-five years, we have never had an exception ;
so it may be taken for granted that your case will not be a
failure in this respect.
Nor is failure possible. The power that we invoke by our
plan of self-generation of magnetism is life itself, coming from
the great orb of life, and building in the human body the very
life that it draws into itself.
There have been so-called magnetic healers in the past ;
but
we know of none who have possessed this genuine power unless
they have also developed this gift of self-generation just as it
is taught herein.
The real healers are yet to appear. Burbank was one, but he
played with the gift only to test its reality ;
and he laid down
his life in a fever of overwork in his experiments ; and, as some
say, because of misunderstanding of his views on life and death
he worried himself into the grave. Dr. Leitner is one of a large |
number who have come to use this power in its highest sense ;
not as mere healers. Coue effected cures by the laying on of
hands ;
but failed in teaching his system to others who were
not magnetic.
390 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
In the old days there was one great medical school, the
allopa/thic. In after years it had a competitor in another large
school, the homeopathic. These are called the regulars. Later
on came the osteopaths ;
and still later the chiropractics. A
great religion that numbers a million or more followers practises
religious cures but avoids medicines. We are stating history,
and are not passing judgment on any of these. But it stands
to reason that when life can be traced to the magnetism that
comes from the sun, and when this magnetism can be self-
generated by any man or woman owing to the compensation of
Nature, then the drift of civilized progress must of necessity
turn to the only original form of natural cures, magnetism.
We have shown that this power acts automatically in
bringing perfect health to any student of this system.
In order to use it in a public or professional way in curing
others, it is probable that some legal recognition may be neces-
sary. But this does not stand in the way of helping friends and
acquaintances ;
and it is a very pleasing test of one's powers to
employ them in such a cause. The principle that is at work
is seen in the comparative funds of vitality in youth and age.
The young man can run faster than the old man ;
he can endure
greater tasks, more severity of strain, and more hardships. He
can eat foods that would injure an old person. While he is
taking on growth, as in the years of development and young
manhood, he draws into his body daily more vitality than one
who has passed those stages.
It is this excess of vitality that magnetism brings into the
body of one who is frail or ill. The contact of the hands is
not always sufficient ;
it is better that one hand of the patient
should be placed in one hand of the curer, while the other hand
of the latter is placed on the bare flesh at the back of the body
between the shoulder blades. Tests have been made in a
number of ways ;
but this seems the most effective. During
this effort the curer should tense the body in the manner taught
in this book, and should fire the mind with the purpose of
mental determination. But these measures are not required
where there is a great difference between the two vitalities.
The clasping of the hand is sufficient.
A physician who gave full attention to this system, and who
became very magnetic, stated that he helped all his patients by
DOCTORS OF MAGNETISM 391
merely coming among them ; as he entered the room of
%
one
who was ill, the effect was noticeable. He stated that on one
occasion when he was spending a brief period at the mountains
in summer, where he was wholly unknown, and where no one
even suspected that he was a doctor, he was introduced by a
newly made friend to several ladies, with each of whom he
shook hands in response to their proffered greetings, and one
of these ladies claimed at once that he was charged full to the
brim, as she put it, with magnetism. She said that she felt a
great flow or current pass through her hand into her body. It
was a case of great disparity of two vitalities ; his very strong,
and hers very weak. Later on he was met by a friend who
called him doctor, with the result that this lady insisted on
receiving magnetic treatment from him. She said that she
had come to the mountains for her health ;
that she could not
get well under any treatment she had tried ;
and all she asked
was that he make the effort to help her by merely the laying on
of hands. This method required nothing more than contact in
that way ;
and she fully recovered her health ;
not under his
care after the holiday was over, but through the assistance of
another doctor who was selected by this physician because he
lived in the same city with the patient. So that any doctor
is able to self-generate magnetism, it does not matter who he
is, in effecting cures.
But as the body is built of material that comes from the lap
of Nature, it is always wise to supply it with the elements
that enter into its perfect making, and avoid those foods that
destroy magnetism. Several lessons are devoted to this diet.
It is magnetic. We recommend the following combination as
invincible :
1. Make use of a magnetic diet for your patients, assuming
that you seek the opportunity to help your friends and ac-
quaintances to get well.
2. Aid them to understand the value and the methods of
securing the magnetic ultra-violet rays direct from the sun
when that can be done.
3. Direct them to the use of such foods as, under the latest
progress in growing or obtaining them, will furnish the magnetic
vitality that comes from the influence of the ultra-violet rays,
such as we have discussed in the early part of this lesson.
392 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
4. Cultivate in yourself the practice of imparting magnetic
currents in contact with your patients ; using any of the
methods that have been described in the preceding page, such
as contact of the hands, or the contact of one hand with the
hand of the patient, and placing the other hand on the back
in the manner stated.
5. Build up great funds of magnetism in your own body for
such uses, and for the value it imparts to your own life ;
so
that you may be instrumental in saving others from illness and
disease.
Since writing the preceding lesson of this book we have had
reports from several persons following the tests we have been
making ;
and there is a unanimity of statement that this com-
bination as suggested herein has never met with a failure. Some
cases go further than the limited contact stated. Thus a
mother whose little girl was pronounced dead by a doctor, took
the bare body of the child into her own disrobed body, and, as
she said,
"
enveloped it with her magnetism in a position
whereby the surcharged vitality of her body entered the child,
and it breathed and lived." A number of very conservative
doctors have expressed a firm belief in the power of a magnetic
person to bring life into a body whose life is merely suspended.
The whole study is of vast importance in an age when
methods are changing rapidly ;
and humanity is coming closer
to the source of life.
LESSON SEVENTY-THREE
THE PERSONAL MAGNETISM CLUB
THE
WORLD-WIDE MAGNETISM CLUB is an organ-
ization carried on by correspondence in a general way,
and by local meetings in a special way, that came into
existence in the year 1888, with the avowed purpose of turning
into practical use in daily life the newly formed habits and
valuable principles of this system of personal development.
Human association and intercourse are necessary parts of
every normal and successful life. It is not good for man to be
alone. It is not good for woman to be alone. Nor is it good
for human beings to segregate themselves and live selfishly
apart from other human beings.
Of course it is possible for a hermit to develop the gift of
personal magnetism, but he would have no use for it except
to ennoble his own character which, in his opinion, might be
worth while.
But the pleasure, the enjoyment, the triumphs and the great
achievements of existence require the intermingling of humanity
in multiform ways, with as much variety of intercourse as is
possible ;
and in and through all these interwoven interests this
power has its greatest opportunities.
The International Magnetism Club has never advertised its
existence, and has never sought members. When local meet-
ings are held they are composed of persona of close acquaintance
with each other. The general organization seeks to help its
members solve all the problems of this system as far as they
desire such help and, in turn, gathers a great fund of new
knowledge from experiments and experiences occurring in the
lives of its members, which of necessity becomes enormously
valuable to future students.
There exists a widely held belief that the International Mag-
netism Club is exclusive, and that only certain persons are
393
394 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
allowed to join it. This is not so. In using the term
"
MAGNETISM CLUB "
we have in mind two meanings.
First, all men and women, wherever they may be located,
who are students and followers of the Edmund Shaftesbury
lessons in Personal Magnetism, are considered members of
the Personal Magnetism Club.
Second, the term also refers to the group or series of instruc-
tion books on the various phases of Magnetic Power written by
Shaftesbury. Magnetism is a subject and study as vast as life
itself. Magnetism permeates all life from the least to the
greatest. So extensive and important a power cannot be
adequately analysed and completely taught in a single volume.
This explains why the Personal Magnetism Club embraces
the books mentioned at the end of this book. There are some
people who want to study all the known methods of magnetic
development, and for them were some of these private
"
Mag-
netism Books "
prepared. We call them "
private
"
because
they are seldom found in any public place ; our students buy
them and cling to them jealously as prized personal possessions.
The book you are now reading is the foundation or exercise
book of the Magnetism Club. It is the vital the
"
key
"
book. Upon its teachings success in using all other phases of
magnetic power rests.
The Magnetism Club was organized for its students to ex-
emplify in public and private life the principles of Personal
Power as taught by Edmund Shaftesbury. Its slogan for
many years has been :
"
Personal Magnetism can accomplish
anything which is in the realms of possibility.*'
The books of the Personal Magnetism Club, in the early
editions, were the first to be issued on the subject, when there
were no other systems in existence. { Imitators arose but fell
by the wayside.} To-day the new and enlarged systems are the
standard method and are so recognized everywhere. To the
best of our knowledge Shaftesbury's books represent THE
ONLY LIBRARY OF PERSONAL MAGNETISM SECRETS
IN THE WORLD.
Magnetism is a double power :
aggressive and protective
the best friend of man or woman, and their best defence. But
Magnetism is not hypnotism. The latter deadens the faculties,
while magnetism gives them life and energy. Hypnotism puts
THE PERSONAL MAGNETISM CLUB 395
into a cataleptic sleep ;
while magnetism inspires, thrills,
enthuses, awakens and enlivens.
If you possess personal magnetism, you can wield some
power over every man, woman and child ; you will also be safe
against the influence of others. Men and women who have
never done much for themselves in the way of success, or who
had never reaped the full reward of living, have taken up the
study of the instruction books of the Magnetism Club and
re-made their lives.
Magnetism and success are synonymous terms ;
and progress
in life is proof that they are moving onward. The best progress
is that which is practical, and that can be turned to actual
uses. The individual who never goes to bed at night unless
he has in some degree added to his self-improvement during
the day is moving onward to success ; and that person who at
the end of each year has laid aside some part of his earnings or
gains is moving onward to success. All others are stagnant,
and are treading the road to failure.
What you have accomplished you should turn to account
among your fellow-beings. In that way you will find your
pleasure in life, your enjoyment of existence and your only
real triumphs in this world. As far as this earth is concerned,
there is no greater goal. But in order to do this you must
participate in multiform ways in the intermingling of humanity.
And this must be done without waste of time and opportunity.
Here is the greatest field for the uses of magnetism.
How to accomplish all these things is, and has been for many
years, the work of the Magnetism Club.
This Club inspires the inventor to solve his problems, and to
win recognition in the world. This Club paves the way for the
minister to build up a great following. This Club discloses the
secrets of success in business and in the financial world. This
Club makes it possible for every employee to better himself,
and better his income each and every year of his active life.
This Club shows the way to the lawyer to win many cases ;
to the doctor to do the greatest good in his profession ;
to
the teacher to develop all that is possible and worth while in
the minds of scholars ;
and to all persons it imparts the gift of
establishing true and lifelong friendships and the power to
destroy all enmities.
396 INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
You may organize ^apLocal
together five others besides yourself, to meet from time to time
to discuss and practise the teachings of this book,. Any six
persons may effect such an organization ;
or may depend solely
on" membership>
in the General Group, known as|
International
Magnetism ^lub jwMcF, for nearly forty years, has achieved
the most wonderful results for its Members. We begin, as
stated, with the most practical^s~ well as the most effective
acquisitions in life ;
and these are first to be sought by dis-
cussion and advice, as well as planning, in order to find the best
way of adding each day some degree of self-improvement, no
matter how slight, and of saving every month out of one's gains
or earnings something against the future. Such problems are
readily solved by mutual discussion and advice among half a
dozen persons who are in earnest.
These basic achievements prove that you are going in the
right direction ; neither drifting aimlessly, nor being lured
blindly to a heart-breaking failure.
We have said that a half-dozen persons may, by discussion
and advice, suggest exactly the best methods to be adopted to
this end, and for other uses of magnetism. By this plan many
thousands of men and women have been given the new start in
life that they needed. Nothing is more pleasing than to see
a prospective failure turned into a grand success. This book
has been purposely written so as to become of itself an uplifting
and personal power from merely the reading of it.
In its helpfulness to others at certain crises in their lives, and
at turning-points where one of two roads must be chosen, either
of success or of failure, this book has come at the right moment
and has been found to be most urgently needed. Its main
distribution comes, not from public advertising of its merits,
but from being recommended or presented by people who see
the vast good it can do when placed in the hands of others.
Charity is becoming universal, and is failing because it teaches
people to become dependent. A wealthy woman whose life is
devoted to charity says,
"
The best help we can give to those
who might become successful is to show them the way to help
themselves ;
and for this reason I give to many intelligent men
and women a copy of the book of personal magnetism."
There are many business executives who keep themselves
THE PERSONAL MAGNETISM CLUB 397
informed of the progress, character and value of certain
employees, and who find it has paid them to give to the latter
copies of this book. There are others who find that their
employees need some real awakening of ambition and power
in order to become more useful, who adopt as a business method
the habit of giving this book to those in whom they take an
interest.
In bringing this work to a conclusion, the author wishes
to send to each and every one of his numerous students the
greeting that is not a farewell, but a wish and a hope that all
may find these studies pleasant and inspiring ;
that they may
become influences that shall work great changes in all the con-
ditions and prospects of life ;
that they may take the place of
careless and trivial reading and do away with wasted hours, by
substituting the most useful and valuable things for those that
are useless, and that each reader and student of these pages
shall reach a standing of one hundred per cent in personal
magnetism, by the following acquisitions :
1. Financial independence for all the rest, of life.
2. The perfect respect and confidence of others.
3. Mastery over all the affairs of life and in every department
of earthly existence.
FEINTED BY MORRISON AND CUBE LTD., LONDON AND EDINBURGH
EDMUND SHAFTESBURY'S
PRIVATE BOOKS
EMBRACING ALL HUMAN POWERS
1. INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM.
2. ADVANCED MAGNETISM.
3. MENTAL MAGNETISM!
4. SEX MAGNETISM.
5. THE OTHER MIND.
6. UNIVERSAL MAGNETISM (In Two Volumes).
A University of Personality
" Books are the true Universities."
So wrote Thomas Carlyle. Here in
the 3000 pages of these magnificent
works the universal secrets of suc-
cessful living are enshrined.
All New Editions. Write for Illustrated Booklet.
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
3 & 5 QUEEN STREET, MANCHESTER 2
