{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__sanderson___your_invisible_self.pdf","mytitle":"Your Invisible Self","mylang":"de"}
— 1 ' ■— ■ ' - ----------- ———..... .............
yoon
inVIjSDBLC
jsejLF
By Sandra Sanderson
Illustrated by A. N. Merryman, Jr.
w
DeVorss & Co., Publishers
843 South Grand Avenue
Los Angeles, California
fL—
First Edition
Copyright, 1935
By Florence Helen Sanderson
i J <
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
THE AUTHOR
COllTeDTlS
Page
Book I—Your Invisible Self............................ 9-52
Book II—Hands................................................ 55-74
Book III—Signs of the Zodiac........................ 77-90
Book IV—A Tea Table Entertainment......... 93-99
Book V—Card Reading....................................102-110
210
HOC R I DVISIfllfc 3€|I(E
BOOK ONE
nn
^IUhere is an Invisible Self within each one of us,
that we feel, but cannot explain. It is tremendously
personal and untouchable except to ourselves.
All children respond to the dictates of their invis­
ible self, but as they grow older and are influenced by
the opinion of their elders, they thrust their invisible
self farther and farther into the background, until
the majority of them have forgotten its existence.
Because I have accepted it and kept it active, I am
writing my experiences with it; showing how the in­
visible self can help the Conscious Self, providing we
do not abuse its power.
If you have submerged your invisible self it will
require time and patience to bring it back to the sur­
face. While acquiring this contact you must be hon­
est with yourself. You must learn to face facts
calmly, keep under control all forms of greed, selfish­
ness, and other harmful excesses, before you can reach
and communicate with your invisible self. When
[s]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
this is accomplished you will gradually become con­
scious of the Voice, the voice of your invisible self.
The Voice of Your Invisible Self
People speak of the voice of Conscience! Then why
not a voice connected with that part of your being
called the Invisible Self?
Because we are living in a physical world it is neces­
sary that our active conscious mind should hold sway.
It would not be practical to submerge our conscious
mind entirely to the dictates of the subconscious
mind. However, more and more thinkers are seeking
a practical explanation of this submerged sense, or
Inner Voice.
From all of the information I can gather, I was a
perfectly normal child. The fact that the voice of
my invisible self was as active as my conscious mind,
made life extremely difficult for me, until I discov­
ered that it was not a general condition; that every­
one was not subject to so strong a voice of dictation.
After some experimentation I was much relieved to
know that I could control this voice of my invisible
self, just as I could my conscious mind.
First Distinct Mental Impression
I was three and a half years old when I received my
first mental impression of the voice. Our church con­
gregation had put on a play to defray some expenses.
As a tiny Fairy, with fluffed-out skirts and gauzy
[10]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
wings, that almost mounted to my shoulders, I was
given much applause.
I thoroughly enjoyed the performance. The stimu­
lating patter of clapping hands excited me so much
that, as the crowd entered the wings after the last
scene, I slid back unnoticed upon the empty stage.
The curtain was being drawn up, and the fireproof
curtain lowered. Running down the center of the
stage and sitting down suddenly, a few feet from the
footlights, I became thoroughly disappointed when I
noticed that the faces of the people immediately in
front of me, who were now standing, preparatory to
leaving the theatre, bore a look of horror; their raised
hands, instead of clapping, were pointing to some­
thing above my head. With the noise of the moving
scenery, I could not hear their cries and sat discon­
solately, awaiting applause, the corners of my mouth
taking a downward turn, bordering on tears of dis­
appointment.
Then a grown-up voice, not unlike my mother’s,
said to me, "Draw your legs up tight against your
chest!” Instinctively, I obeyed. The next instant
the heavy curtain, with its metal base, dropped with
a thud, just where my feet had been a moment before.
Immediately a crowd, preceded by my mother, ran
onto the stage and found me, much to their surprise,
unhurt.
Second Mental Impression
The second time I remember the voice of my invis­
ible self expressing itself was when I was between
(MJ
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
four and five years old. A neighbor, of whom I was
very fond, died suddenly. For the purpose of soften­
ing the blow, my governess, after informing me of his
death, said, “Mr. Thompson has wings, now, like the
angels, and has flown up into the sky.”
To which remark, I asked, “Where to?” And I
was told he had gone to heaven.
I was quite astonished when the voice of my invis­
ible self said, “He hadn’t wings; he could travel
without wings.” This remark puzzled me and I
thought a great deal about it.
Third Mental Impression
I was not conscious of the voice again, until I was
eight years old. At this period I was having frequent
colds difficult to overcome, and our family physician
advised mother to send me to live in the Southwest of
England. I was soon bundled off to stay with my
great-uncle and aunt.
Living in the country with elderly people, with
only a daily governess, I was isolated from children of
my own age, except on rare occasions. Having to sit
and listen to conversations far beyond my childish
comprehension, and being sensitive about asking ques­
tions, the voice of my invisible self began to come
more clearly. It had a way of reducing the advanced
terms used by my relatives to a vocabulary easily un­
derstood by me.
In the instance of an animated conversation held
by my great-uncle and a famous brain specialist, the
[12]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
voice explained away the horrors of imbecility in such
a manner that made it seem less alarming. It suggested
that imbeciles were like adults with fully matured
bodies, but with undeveloped minds of children, which
often made them more absurb than dangerous.
The voice also explained that by treating these un­
fortunates like children, when they were doing wrong,
or by giving them a feeling of responsibility when
occupied with some constructive work, was a very
successful method of handling these people. Somehow
this explanation took all fear of these poor unfortu­
nates from me.
fourth Mental Impression
A more vivid reaction of the voice came one day in
January of the next year. It had been raining when
we retired, and during the night it cleared. A black
frost settled down upon the ground, unnoticeable to
the casual observer.
Not realizing that the roads were like glass, we
started out in the automobile without skid chains.
From the house on the hillside there was a steep, wind­
ing descent to the town below. The chauffeur was
driving; my aunt and I were in the tonneau. As soon
as we started down the hill, the car gathered momen­
tum and began to sway dangerously, quite out of the
chauffeur’s control; then left the road to mount a
steep embankment.
The force of the impact only slowed down the
speed of the swiftly moving car. The icy condition
of the road left no grip for the wheels; the car shot
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
off down the hill to climb the bank on the other side,
then off again around a bend in the road, to leap up
the opposite bank again. It was like a switch-back.
Every time the car struck a bank, we expected to
be overturned, but each time it would shake and shud­
der, then tear off again, three times miraculously
missing telegraph poles. My aunt, rendered hysterical
by the terrific suspense, was trying to open the door
and leap out. Here the voice of my invisible self said,
“Hold her. You won’t turn over. If she leaps out
onto the frozen ground while the car is traveling at
this rate, she may be killed.”
I caught hold of her. “Auntie,” I cried. “Wait. I
am sure the car will stop in a minute.”
At that moment the car again shot up an embank­
ment and my aunt was thrown against me with ter­
rific force. This time, however, we had reached a
place sheltered by a great tree, where the ground was
softer. The car half turned over and came to a stand­
still, unharmed.
Fifth Mental Impression
During the evenings while I was still living with
my relatives, I would take my Bible and study the
lesson for the next day. Finding unbounded interest
in the life of Christ, I would continue reading chapter
after chapter. When anything was mentioned re­
garding a miracle or prophecy, I would question
within myself how this great power functioned. What
was necessary in the soul of a person, to obtain such
perfection as to achieve and demonstrate such results?
[141
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
I became engrossed in the study of how to achieve
this, gradually realizing that in a minor capacity, any­
one being filled spiritually, might obtain some per­
sonal demonstration. I began to use this power by
calling on the voice to control the material, where the
material seemed unable to complete the demand.
Experiences In Paris
When I was fourteen, it was arranged that I should
go to a convent boarding school in Paris, although I
was not a Catholic.
During the first months after my arrival, because of
the new environment and foreign language, the voice
of my invisible self did not exert itself. After a time,
however, my daily habits being quite simple, and be­
cause my school mates were years younger mentally,
I became bored with their childish chatter, and the
voice again re-asserted itself.
There was another English girl in the convent, and
because she was older, we were permitted, during the
holidays, to go sight-seeing in Paris, without a chap­
eron. On these occasions the voice was a constant and
interesting companion.
On one such trip, we had sauntered from the Pan­
theon to the beautiful old church of St. Etienne du
Mont. Here, as we entered, we were met by a crowd
of people streaming up a side aisle toward a special
shrine whose feast day it must have been. Our interest
was aroused and we pushed our way along with the
rest of the people. The crowd, not being organized,
soon hemmed us in so tightly that it was impossible to
[u]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
move. Almost suffocated by the odor of the incense
and the perspiring mass of humanity, I felt someone
clutch my arm. I dragged it free; I had no especial
fear, but the voice began talking rapidly.
"Push your way across nearer your friend. Get out
of this crowd at once. You are in danger!”
"How stupid to become alarmed,” I thought. But,
half turned by the weight of those pressing around
me, I saw a dark complexioned man withdraw his
hand. In it was clasped a tiny shining thing.
"A needle,” I thought.
Then the voice said, "Put your elbows close to your
sides and move as quickly as possible into the fresh
air.”
Now I felt something really was wrong and I made
a desperate effort to reach the side of my friend.
There was much talking and comment all around me.
"I am ill,” I said. "I must get out of this crowd.”
At last I got free. My companion could not under­
stand why I was so intent upon leaving the church.
I told her about the man, and we made our way in
haste to a sweet shop on the Rue du Pantheon, and
ordered hot chocolate and cake. My companion was
very concerned about our safety, for at that moment
the man of whom I had told her passed by the win­
dow. He hesitated for several moments on the side­
walk, and then perceiving that I was not alone, he
disappeared.
"Do you know what he was going to do with you?”
whispered my companion. "He intended to drug you.
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
You would have become faint, and he would have
carried you away before I could have reached you.”
Interested In Art Objects
At this time, the voice of my invisible self seemed
more artistic than practical and reveled in the beauty
of the museums and art galleries which I visited in
company with my companion.
For instance, over a case of miniatures in the Louvre,
the voice did not dwell on the fact that the portrait
was that of Marie Antoinette, or some other historical
person, but would conjure up pictures of the inner
workings of the mind of the subject.
At Cluny where a case of ornate slippers attracted
my attention, the voice told me about the wearers of
these slippers; where they went and what they did
while wearing them. Instead of glancing at the ob­
jects and passing them by, after my conscious mind
had accepted all it was interested in, I would lean,
with folded elbows on the case, gazing at the objects
for such periods as enabled me to find amusement in
what the voice had to say. To an onlooker I would
attract no attention; I might be an artist or a designer
studying the object from a professional angle. It did,
of course, incline me to detailed criticism, because I
had time, during such periods, to make mental notes
of the objects under discussion.
Studying the sculptures at the Luxemburg Museum
was one of my greatest pleasures. Here the voice
would enlighten me as to the perfection of the physi­
cal, as well as the spiritual, meaning of each piece.
[17]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Here, too, the voice would discuss the activities of
the sculptor’s mind rather than the work itself. Some­
times these comments were pleasant; sometimes har­
rowing in the extreme. In lateryears, through reading
and discussion, I learned that these impressions were
not mere imaginings of an adolescent child, but actu­
ally coincided with historical facts.
At The Convent
Every evening we went to benediction. At first my
whole attention was centered on the ritual, and the
form of service, but after a time, while kneeling in
semi-darkness, I got into the habit of watching the
nuns as they knelt in their stalls—which were placed
along the sides of the chapel—their rosaries swinging
rhythmically as they told their beads. Then I began
to watch the movements of their fingers. One nun
had small, delicate hands; another, heavy and podgy;
another gnarled and disfigured; in fact, all were dif­
ferent. I glanced down at my own hands and then at
those of the children on either side of me, and made
the discovery that no two hands seemed alike. From
this time on, and for many years afterward, hands
had a peculiar fascination for me. I believe that dur­
ing this period I was subconsciously learning the ele­
mentary facts of the reading of the hands, which I
later used in a practical manner.
Vision
Shortly before my year at the convent expired, I
had an unusual experience. I slept in a room with
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
four other girls and a nun. My bed was in the corner
on the left side of the room, near the one large French
window, which, due to the warmth of the evening,
was left wide open. I remember hearing the clock in
the tower strike twelve, midnight. I do not remember
falling asleep, but if I did, I was awakened shortly
after this by a great deal of noise which seemed to
fill the whole air. I got out of bed and went toward
the window to see what was causing the disturbance.
To my surprise I found the window closed! The
room was dark, but the moonlight caught the edge
of my bed, and as I turned to see if anyone else had
been awakened by the disturbance, I saw myself lying
face downward beside my bed!
Forgetting everything else, I became vitally inter­
ested in this phenomenon. Here I was, standing at the
window, and, there I was on the floor beside my bed!
"Why, I must be dead!” I said to myself.
Being quite unafraid, and in full control of my
senses, I remembered I had always wanted to see my­
self as others saw me, and here was my opportunity to
do so. I moved over toward the bed, and leaning
down, tried to turn myself over by the shoulder, but
by body seemed terribly heavy. While I was still in
the act, a voice from somewhere behind me, asked,
“What are you waiting for? You must hurry or you
will be late.”
"I want to see my face,” I replied.
"Hurry,” said the voice.
I straightened up and was told by the same voice to
get out of the building as soon as possible.
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
“I am in the spirit,” I said. ‘’I cannot walk through
the corridors, lest I frighten the nuns.”
"Then go through the window.”
“But the window is closed,” I exclaimed, "and I do
not think I have the strength to open it.”
“You can pass through the glass,” said the voice.
Thinking to myself that no one would know if I
did break the window-pane, I acted upon the sug­
gestion, and found that I had passed through the
glass and was floating in the air out of doors. Turning
back I saw the window had not been harmed.
"Hurry,” the voice said, and not knowing in which
direction to go, I looked skyward and immediately
felt myself drawn up on a current of air at a great
speed through space.
After some time of this rushing through space, my
speed began to diminish and I felt I was arriving at
some destination, and material forms began to appear.
I found myself in a wide street with high buildings
on either side. People were moving about in a busi­
ness-like manner, all apparently aware of their par­
ticular destination. They paid no attention to me.
Everything had a pearl-white appearance; even the
people’s clothes were of the same shimmery cast.
There was no uniform fashion, but flowing robes pre­
dominated.
My first impression was that I had arrived in some
world between the Earth and Heaven, and finding
myself free to explore, I had only one curious desire,
and that was to see God!
Coming toward me, I thought I recognized my
[201
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
human conception of Moses. I hesitated, wondering
how I could address someone whose language would
naturally be foreign to me. Then I made a discovery:
as I thought, "This is Moses,” he replied in thought,
"I am he!”
Immediately I sensed that the form of communica­
tion here was not by audible enunciation, but by
thought.
Feeling a friendly attitude toward Moses for not
passing me by, I asked, "I want to see God.”
“God is here. God is everywhere,” he replied.
"But why cannot I see Him?”
"You are from the Earth; that is why you cannot
see God. Did you come by the River?”
"No, I have seen no River.”
"Then I will show you, for, it is by the way of the
River that souls usually come here.”
Going up the street, and noticing a large building
on the right hand side, I signified my desire to enter.
Moses nodded assent.
The inside of this building was circular and high
ceilinged. People were standing around in small
groups, and in the center of the room was a large
table which seemed to be supported by one single
pedestal. This table was surrounded by a large num­
ber of people who appeared to be gazing down into
the center of it. They were silently absorbed in some­
thing which aroused my curiosity. I wanted to see for
myself, so I walked toward the table.
It appeared to be of a crystal-like substance, and
as I looked over the shoulder of one of the onlookers,
[21]
YOUR. INVISIBLE SELF
I could see the pedestal that formed the support for
the table was like the glass in a telescope. The Earth
was brought into vision through its mirrored surface,
and any part of the world that you particularly
wished to see would immediately materialize.
To my surprise, I realized that the thoughts of all
of the great movements in process of being formed
were shown here, and enacted in their full strength
and realization.
I drew back in horror, for I felt the sense of a great
evil that was in preparation, which would take place
on the Earth in the form of War!
I returned to my friend Moses and remarked in a
turmoil of thoughts, "Who are these people? Why
do they permit these things to happen? Disaster is
coming upon the Earth! Why do they not move to
prevent it?”
"This,” said Moses, "is the Hall of Satisfaction.
These are all good souls who have gained entrance to
this sphere by their own perfection, but without self-
sacrifice or help to others. Here they will remain,
gazing back upon the Earth, seeing the struggle of
Good and Evil taking place until of their own volition
they will return to the Earth. They will be reborn
only after they have realized their imperfections.”
He turned. "Now I will take you to Saint Peter, who
is waiting near the River of Life.”
As we continued up the street, I began to hear a
sound that was like the murmur of a brook or the
rustle of wind through the trees. Suddenly upon
turning a corner, we met Saint Peter.
[22]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
"This soul did not come the usual way; it wishes to
see God. I have explained that God is everywhere,
but a more physical demonstration is desired.”
While they were discussing me, I was attracted by
the river called The River of Life. The River did not
now appear as water, but as two great shafts of Light.
One shaft was dark, and the other translucent. The
dark shaft seemed to move upward from the Earth
like muddy water, and the Light shaft descended clear
as a crystal. As I continued to watch the water, I
realized there was movement in it; that it was full
of human forms. Those that came up the dark shaft
seemed to be struggling to get out of the water; some
reached the bank on the far side of the River; then,
as if completely exhausted, they slid back into the
water while others gained the land and moved toward
some particular building, as if they were cognizant of
their destination.
Those left in the water were carried to the source
of the River, where the dark and light shafts joined,
and were carried, unresisting, down the light shaft
toward the Earth.
Becoming tired of this diversion, I turned and
found that I was alone with Saint Peter.
"I am not satisfied,” I said. "I want to see God
in a more material form.”
“In that case,” he replied, “you must pass over the
River of Life without touching it. If you touch the
River, you will be carried to the Earth. You must
will yourself to rise above it. Having passed safely
over, journey toward the Light in the East.”
[2J]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Saint Peter pointed to a faint glow which appeared
like the first rays of sunlight at dawn. I thanked him,
and, with more force than I had wished for anything
before, I asked to see God.
Gradually I felt myself rise above the River of Life,
and move, with gathering speed, as if drawn by a
magnet. As I journeyed, I seemed to travel at a much
greater speed than before, and many times the dis­
tance. Suddenly I came into a circle of immense
Light, the power of which was indescribable in its
brilliance. Here, the greatest thoughts that surround
the Infinite, moved and had their being. I seemed to
recognize the Christ; the Virgin Mother, and the
Holy Ones, but the presence of God was nothing
tangible. It was like being in the presence of some­
thing that was so all-embracing in Love and Power,
that It knew everything; consumed every thought
and was too powerful an influence for me to be at
rest with. I felt that to remain in the presence of such
stupendous Wisdom, I must attain more knowledge.
Without more understanding, I was not worthy to
live or remain in such peace and happiness, with such
all-embracing Love and greatness.
I said to myself, humbly, “I must return to the
Earth again. I am still unworthy of a place here.”
With this thought in mind, I suddenly felt myself
being drawn backward through space, but my face
remained to the Light, until it gradually became
fainter and fainter. I heard the rushing of the waters,
and the River of Life closed over me. I lost conscious­
ness, and awakened in my bed in the convent. I was
bathed in perspiration from head to foot.
[24]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
I sprang out of bed and went toward the window;
it was open as when I first retired. The sky was
serenely blue-black and the moon had sunk behind
the trees. The hand of the clock on the tower opposite
pointed to the hour of one.
I looked into the heavens and wondered; was it
only a dream, or had my soul, for a short space of
time, been privileged to experience a glimpse behind
the veil?
A Journey To Berlin
When I was sixteen, my great-uncle died, and my
aunt decided to send me to live with friends of theirs
in Germany. I had to change trains in Berlin, and not
knowing the language of the country I found it diffi­
cult. I endeavored to ascertain from one of the porters
on which platform my train came in and having
failed in my efforts to make myself understood, I was
at a loss just what to do.
I said within myself, "I have done all I can in re­
gard to this matter; I must have help.”
I Watched trains arrive and depart for almost two
hours, when suddenly I was impelled by the voice of
my invisible self toward a certain platform. In a short
time a train arrived bearing the name of the city
which was my destination. Without a doubt the voice
had come to my rescue again, as it had done so many
times in the past.
From this time on, and in many graver instances, I
found that I was able to link my subconscious mind
with some higher power, to obtain material results.
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
War Thoughts
During the time I stayed with my great-aunt’s
friends in Germany, I heard military officers discuss­
ing the possibility of war. Again the voice became
insistent; there was to be a war; not just a war be­
tween two countries, but a war that would involve
all the great powers in the world.
Once when we had been to watch maneuvers, the
voice said, "Do you see all of these men? This is just
a fractional part of the men who will be killed. Many
of the boys with whom you are acquainted, and the
sons of your friends, will never live to a mature age.
There will be nothing but deprivation, agony and
grief.”
"How ridiculous,” I would think, and try to stop
the voice.
England Declares War!
When war was declared with England, I was in
Berlin. My family in England was frantic, but I
knew I would have no difficulty in returning home. I
waited for three months; the panic and the alarm had
subsided, and with the exception of an extra day en
route, through enemy territory, the trip was an un­
eventful one, with all of the general comforts of
peacetime. My safe return from the continent caused
a great deal of excitement, especially when it was
found that I was able to bring all of my luggage with
me, thanks to the voice, which guided me at every
step of the journey where help of any kind was
needed.
[2«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
At a small concert, given in my behalf, I was asked
to relate my experiences while in Germany, and the
>nly thing of note that was contributed by the voice,
was the urging me to say, “The War will last longer
than anyone can realize at the present time. It will
require the help of the entire nation, and the assistance
of every other country that is willing to give its sup­
port. Eventually, those on the side of the Allies will
win, but, the end is not yet in sight.”
Because of this pessimistic conclusion of my speech,
I was severely criticized and even called Pro-German!
War Work
During the war there can be no doubt that I
unconsciously used this gift of mine to great advan­
tage. I found myself in positions of responsibility far
beyond my years of experience. I worked satisfac­
torily and in conjunction with some of the finest
brains in the country. My ability and foresight in
handling people I attribute to the influence of the
voice of my invisible self.
I often found a useful niche for employees who
would have otherwise been dismissed. I seemed able
to discern the natural ability of the applicants, and
to place them to advantage.
Experiences In America
After the Armistice, my mind, like thousands of
others, underwent a let-down and readjustment. Al­
though I could have remained in London, and every
thing pointed to my doing so, the voice persisted in
[27]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
urging me to try my luck in other fields. Against myI
own normal judgment, I was at last persuaded by the I
voice, to go abroad. I
Eventually I arrived in Southern California, where I
I have found the atmospheric conditions most con-1
ducive to clarifying my psychic impressions. But I
perhaps I should explain when and how I stumbled I
upon the fact that I could use this power to benefit I
others, as well as myself. I
A friend of mine had dropped in for tea; when we I
had finished, she suggested peering into the future by I
way of the tea leaves. She told me several things that I
seemed plausible; I was intrigued and began to con-1
centrate upon the tea leaves which she was also study-1
ing in my cup. I
Then the voice began to speak to me. "See that I
square leaf? That means a house! The long, narrow I
one, a journey; two leaves, overlapping means a cross; I
the three symbols would read that there is to be al
death in a house, at a distance!” I
I was quite excited at this new discovery. Hereto-1
fore I had only used the voice for myself. Apparently I
it was possible, through this medium, to employ it for I
others too. I
For two years I amused my friends by reading I
their tea leaves. They were amazed at the number of I
predictions which materialized, and urged me to take I
up the work in a professional way. However, I felt I
that I was not sure enough of myself, nor was there I
any particular need, financially, of my doing so. I
It was some time after this that another friend I
[2
*
] I
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
came in one day, and told me she had something new
for me to work with. She showed me a tiny crystal
on a silver filigree stand.
"Do you want me to go crazy?” I exclaimed. "I
have always heard that people who read a crystal
eventually go mad.” I looked at it again. "It is pretty
and I will keep it, but, don’t expect me to use it.”
With that I placed the crystal on the mantelpiece;
it remained there for several months, yet try as I
would to ignore it, it held a fascination for me. The
voice, too, urged me to experiment; eventually I
capitulated.
I had heard that people read a crystal through
either darkness or light. First, I tried with a dark
cloth under it but could get no results; then I tried
standing it on the filigree base, through which light
filtered. That gave the ball a bright, iridescent ap­
pearance and I felt this was the medium through
which I could read.
Nothing appeared, but I felt I could get results,
because, by peering steadily into the center of the
ball, it began to cloud up and then clear, obliterating
the objects in the room, which were naturally mir­
rored in it by the conscious mind.
I decided I must have a definite contact to produce
results. I telephoned the friend who had given me
the toy and asked her if she would care to try an
experiment. She came over at once. The results were
not startling. I sat at a table opposite to her, looking
into the crystal for a period of almost ten minutes.
Nothing happened; then the crystal clouded up and
[2J]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
the picture of a house appeared; the shrubbery around
the house was not typical of Southern California; the
trees were like those of a colder climate and I de­
scribed the location as being some hundreds of miles
further north of Los Angeles. I went into this house
and described a room that was well furnished with
miscellaneous antiques. Sitting at a writing desk was
an elderly lady with snow-white hair. She was writ­
ing letters that were piled on the desk beside her.
"I think you must be going to receive a letter from
this lady,” I said to my friend, and the vision dis­
appeared.
"I have never seen or heard of such a woman,” she
replied. “I cannot imagine what connection it would
have with my affairs.”
I should explain here, that when you look into the
crystal and see such pictures, you imagine yourself as
an invisible onlooker of the scene.
I was disappointed with this test until some three
weeks later, when my friend called me on the tele­
phone.
"Such an amusing thing occurred today. My
mother visited me from Los Angeles, and showed me
a letter from a distant relative of hers who lives in
Oakland; on her eightieth birthday she had written
a short note to every living relative she possessed, to
tell them about her age and her remarkable activities
at this time. This must have been the woman you
saw in the crystal!”
This demonstration encouraged me to further ex­
periments. I learned that the quickest and the most
(so]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
satisfactory way of getting results was to mentally
interrogate the crystal about any particular problem.
At the present time I can make contacts with any
subject under discussion, within a few moments. This
is due to concentration, obliterating from my mind
everything but the matter before me. Strong concen­
tration produces a contact. The subconscious mind
follows this contact and picks up and materializes it
in a natural form in the crystal, similar to the way a
picture is projected by light onto a white screen. The
thought transference of people, which the concentra­
tion brings about, is reproduced in actual words to
me, by the voice of my invisible self.
I find the crystal to be a most reliable medium
when a matter has already taken form in some part
of the ether, serving much the same as the receiving
set of a radio. A matter of national importance, or
where a number of minds are in conflict, is more diffi­
cult to get accurately than where there is only one
mind concerned in the completion of the decision.
To keep the mind clear, while subduing stronger
vibrations which try to enter and cloud the subject,
is very difficult. It is like having three radios going
at one time; one singing, the other making a speech
and another playing an overture. These mind-sounds
have to be cleared just as you clear a station on the
radio, and if you are not powerful enough to do this,
you lose the contact.
One may be so carried away by his concentration
and the use of his subconscious mind, that in coming
back to his conscious mind he will carry the burden
Cm]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
of his exertion and find it difficult to throw off the
impressions. If, after resting, he has a bad pain at
the base of the skull, he has over-strained and should
rest for a period of at least twenty-four hours before
continuing any form of this kind of work.
My chief experimental work with the crystal has
been on law cases; lost articles; people wanting advice
at a distance. When a person is not present and I have
in my possession a letter from him, stating what he
particularly wants me to know, I clear my mind of
other interference by reading the letter over two or
three times. Then I place the letter under the crystal.
Gazing into the crystal, I ask it about the subject
referred to in the letter.
In the case where I have no material contact, I ask
mentally for such and such a person. It may remain
blank for some time and if I am not strong enough to
approach this mind, I will get no response, but if I
can contact the mind of this individual, I will bring
up the person in a materialized form, in the crystal.
Trips Via The Crystal
In trying to contact people in foreign countries, I
take my location into consideration. Living as I do,
on the Pacific Coast, I find it easier to travel across the
Pacific Ocean, for people living in Africa. There is less
static or interference across the water than by passing
over mountain ranges, and through towns full of
strong vibrations of other minds. To verify this, I tried
in my experimental work to contact a friend who was
[32]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
living in Africa. I tried three times to cross America;
pass over the South Atlantic and through Europe,
sut I kept picking up murders, robberies and people
working on different sorts of mental problems which
were of great interest and diversion, yet prevented
me from arriving at my destination.
I never use the crystal unless requested to do so, as
I feel that it is a natural law, that we have no right
to interfere with the lives of others, unless our aid has
been solicited.
Whether a client is present or not, there is no need
for him to concentrate in any way to try and influ­
ence his request. In fact, it is better after asking the
question, to pay no further attention to the matter
until the answer is given. Sometimes the message
comes through clear and correct; at other times, it is
disjointed; the thought-waves coming in jerks and
stopping before a complete and perfect picture is
formed. Again, after ten or fifteen minutes of con­
centration, when nothing comes up, I know it is some­
thing impossible to locate in the crystal and do not
try to give an answer.
Experimental Work With The Crystal
From the many cases I have worked on, I find that
we can often map out the whole of a case with slight
alteration as it will happen, but, we do not delay or
expedite the results; we simply see it as a story read,
rather than a story in the making.
[»]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Lost Jewelry
One day a friend of mine called me; she was greatly
agitated; she had lost $15,000 worth of jewelry! It
was usually kept in a safe-deposit box at the bank,
but she had brought it home, to wear for a special
occasion. Thinking she might wear the jewels again
within a short time, she decided not to return them to
the bank until later. For safe-keeping, she had put
the jewels in a small leather bag; then she attached the
bag to the inside folds of the heavy window drape
in her bedroom. Satisfied with her hiding place, she
dismissed the matter from her mind.
Some time later the window drapes were sent to a
certain establishment for alterations, and it was not
until the day before the curtains were to be returned,
that she thought: "Draperies? Curtains? Why, my
jewels!” She immediately informed her husband as to
her loss; then she telephoned me.
When I arrived my friend told me that she had
been to the store and the proprietor informed her that
he knew absolutely nothing about the lost jewels. I
sat with my crystal in her bedroom; I asked it what
had taken place and this is what I saw: A maid-serv­
ant came into the room with a middle aged man, the
owner of the store, and a younger man, his helper.
The maid left them in the room alone; the men took
down the curtains, carried them into the living-room,
and folded them up. In doing so, the older man ap­
peared to unpin the leather bag that was attached to
one of the curtains.
Arriving at the store he took his wife into his con-
(m]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
fidence and later they showed the jewelry to some
friends; then I saw them placed in a dark cupboard;
they were not sold.
If the jewels were asked for, the owner of the store
was prepared to say that they had been found in the
gutter near the store, after the curtains had been car­
ried in from the truck. Then in the crystal I saw the
jewels returned to my friend by the proprietor; I saw
my friend wearing them again, and felt sure they
would be returned. The jewelry was returned that
same evening.
Lost Persons
A man of unbalanced mind strayed away from his
home and his family were unable to locate him.
Through the crystal, I was able to pick up his mind.
I asked him to go over again what he had done and
what he was likely to do. From this I assured his
family that no harm would befall him and that he
would return to them of his own volition. I also de­
scribed the places through which he was traveling. It
was not until he had returned home, three days later,
that what I had told them was verified.
Another man who disappeared was thought to have
come to harm on the Ridge Route near Los Angeles.
I told his wife that her husband had changed his plans
and was traveling toward the desert accompanied by
another man. "Within twenty-four hours you will
pass him on Vermont avenue as you are driving in
your father’s car!” This later proved to be the case.
The uncle and aunt of a young traveling salesman
(mJ
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
were afraid that their nephew had been held up or
had come to some terrible harm. He generally kept
them informed as to his whereabouts, but on this trip
failed to give them the usual information. I assured
them, after looking into the crystal that he was safe
and unharmed. I told them a friend living in a coast
town north of Los Angeles would write them, stating
he had seen and spoken to their nephew. Several
days later the desired information was received by
mail, and their anxiety proved to have been un­
necessary.
The Gettle Kidnapping Case
Saturday May 12, 3:06 P.M. to 3:39 P.M., 1934
I had no information to work upon; I did this case
simply for experimental purposes. I sat alone with
the crystal and first asked it how many were involved
in the kidnapping. The crystal said there seemed to be
four men connected with the kidnapping. One of
the men, a man of small build wearing a felt hat
drawn down over his eyes, will speak to the attorney
(the contact man), concerning the ransom. I saw a
dark-haired man, dressed in a dark blue suit, who
eventually would be picked up near Main street, Los
Angeles. Then I saw a man without a hat, hair worn
straight back; one of the chief kidnappers.
Then the crystal showed a picture out of town, in
the country, farther north. Think someone con­
nected with one of the men is in the northern part of
the state. It may be the wife of one of the men.
Then I saw a skylight window; from this window
[3«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
could be seen some kind of a waterway with a con­
necting bridge; also a building that resembled a mill;
a woman with red hair wearing a black dress cut low
in the back, knows something about one of the men.
I asked the crystal which way the men went after the
kidnapping. I was given north, northeast of where
they had kidnapped him. The number seven ap­
peared. This might be seventy miles, more or less.
They passed some oil wells on a narrow winding road.
There is a little running stream of water. One of the
men seems to have been connected with a bank hold­
up. He tallies with such a description: light eyes;
dark hair; 5 feet 7% inches tall. Someone who has
the initial “H” will give the first definite clew. The
car used in the kidnapping looks like a 1932 Ford!
Then the crystal showed me a room with the blinds
drawn. Deep water or a reservoir not far from the
house. Then I saw a cottage with a dark type of roof;
it seemed to be connected with the room shown me
by the crystal.
Gettle’s office; a filing case in which letters and
documents are kept; there seems to be some reference
to a transaction that was consummated in that office
a year before by one of the kidnappers.
Gettle seemed to be lying on a bed, one leg bent up;
he was rubbing his knee where he was bruised or hurt.
Did not appear serious. One eye seemed to be covered
with something dark. Santa Monica boulevard, Los
Angeles. Gettle should be returned in an “8” time­
period. Time indefinite. There will be a hold-up in
connection with the pay-off.
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Miss Smith Case
Walter Winchell gave out in his broadcast on Sun­
day evening, December 30, 1934, that "Miss Smith
was knocked down and killed this afternoon in New
York City by a hit and run driver.”
Miss Mabel Smith, a well known Los Angeles as­
trology worker, was visiting New York at this time.
Her friends here in Los Angeles felt it must be she.
They tried every method of communication to get in
touch with her, but failed to do so.
At 11:30 p.m. the same night a mutual friend of
Miss Smith’s and myself telephoned me here in Los
Angeles, requesting me to use my powers of concen­
tration on the affair, and let her know what I could
find out.
I went into my work room and sat down before the
crystal. I asked for New York City. It took a few
minutes to what I term, make a get away, because
the atmosphere was heavy with a gathering rain storm
which affects the electrical vibrations. At last I
worked through and my thoughts reached New York.
First, I asked to see the body of Miss Smith who
had been killed that afternoon. I brought the mental
picture of the body back and focused it in the crystal.
It was rather disfigured, but I felt sure it was not the
body of Mabel Smith.
Then, I went out again and asked for Mabel Smith.
After moving about the city for a few minutes I
brought into the crystal a room lighted by a lamp
standing near a lounge upon which the figure of a
woman resembling Mabel Smith was reclining. The
IM]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
woman had a number of papers in her hands as if she
was studying them. I asked her "When will you get
in touch with Los Angeles?” The number 7 appeared
in the crystal. I was satisfied and cut out the con­
nection.
I telephoned my friend and told her not to worry
and described to her what I had seen. That I was con­
vinced there would be news from Miss Smith in a 7
which might be very soon or at 7:00 a.m. New York
time. In exactly 27 minutes from the time I hung
up the receiver Mabel Smith got in touch with Los
Angeles to say she was safe and well.
Since her return to this city she has corroborated
my statements in every detail.
Supernatural Experiences
Spiritualism is part of the work for which I have
little interest and no desire to cultivate. I believe
that those who have passed over to the other side have
duties to perform which are as important to their
spiritual welfare as our material duties here on earth
are to us. I see it as a form of annoyance to them to
be called back to earth except when they personally
wish it. It reminds me of someone engrossed in impor­
tant work, and being constantly interrupted by
unimportant telephone calls. The only cases of dem­
onstration I have received, have been unexpected and
of importance to the communicator of them.
The first was only an invisible demonstration while
I was still in the convent in Paris. During the Easter
holidays, Yvonne, a French girl who occupied the
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
same room with me, passed away after an operation.
She had caused us some annoyance by her small atten­
tions and always being the last to retire at night. She
would fuss around in the dark, putting up her hair,
and hunting small objects in the room. Her last self-
imposed duty before getting into bed was to come
around to each of us, and smooth the sheets, or tuck
in an untidy blanket.
Yvonne complained in a small, persistent way about
a headache or a little pain here and there, so much,
that we children didn’t take her seriously. Her sud­
den death came as a great shock to us all.
No one occupied Yvonne’s bed during my last term
at school and one night after we had all retired, I
discussed her with the nun in charge.
I remarked, "I feel sorry that we were sometimes
impatient with Yvonne. Had we known she was ill,
we certainly would have been more considerate.”
To which the nun replied, "I am sure Yvonne was
not the type of girl to hold a grudge. I feel confident
she understands how we feel, now.”
There had been a silence between us for some time,
and I had turned over on my right side, facing the
wall, when suddenly I became conscious of someone
leaning over me, touching my sheet. At the same time
I noticed a strong odor of perfume. Instantly I re­
membered the highly-scented powder used by
Yvonne, which had been absent from the room since
her death. I had a disturbed sense of someone moving
about; washing their hands; finally, a trickle of water
descended into the container which stood in the cup­
board under the wash basin.
[40]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
"Are you up?” called the nun.
“No.”
There was silence for a few moments, then the nun
ttirred again. I sensed that she was uneasy.
“Did you notice anything strange?” I queried.
“I thought someone leaned against the curtain that
iurrounds my bed. Did you smell anything? Yvonne’s
perfumed powder?”
"Yes. What do you think it could mean,” I asked.
“Could she—come back?”
“It is possible,” replied the nun. “Such things have
been known to happen.”
I tucked my head under the bed clothes and heard
the nun begin to tell her beads. I have always thought
that Yvonne wanted us to know she felt no ill-will
towai J ->? for our past behavior!
First Psychic Materialization
It was several years after this experience (Christ­
mas 1916), that I was visiting the home of one of
my dearest girl friends. Sne had lost her eldest brother
in the war in October of that year. I had been so
intimate with the family all of my girlhood that I felt
I was the only member outside of the immediate
family who could understand their deep sorrow and
yet try to be cheerful at this festive season. It was
when my friend’s father stood up to carve and our
glasses had been filled with champagne, that I felt a
tenseness creep into the conversation. I secretly won­
dered how we were ever going to sit through dinner.
I glanced toward my host with a sense of expectancy,
[41]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
hoping he would introduce a more cheerful tone
the conversation.
Looking up, I noticed, standing beside him, his
eldest son! I was surprised, but not shocked, to see
him looking directly at me.
“I know you are all grieving over what has hap­
pened to me; especially my mother,” he-told me,
through thought communication. "I wish you would
tell my mother, for me, that I died easily. I did not
suffer, and since I have arrived on the other side, I
am continuing the interests which I left unfinished
upon the earth, but, in a slightly different form. I
do not feel sorry, nor do I grieve for the material
things that I have lost, but, I do suffer because my
family grieve for me. If they want me to have con­
tentment, they should try to be less resentful at my
being taken. The sooner they are reconciled to that,
the faster I shall progress in mypresentenvironment.”
I nodded slightly toward him, and replied in
thought, “I will do all in my power to convey your
message to them.”
I was seventeen at this time, and realized I could
never tell them the exact form of the communication
I had received from their son, or they might mis­
interpret his message.
The dinner passed off successfully; later we retired
to the drawing room and as we were sitting com­
fortably around the big open fire, a silence descended
upon us all, pregnant with the thought of the dead
boy. Breaking into the silence, I said, "Do you real­
ize we have all been thinking of 'G’ but none of us
[42]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
as had the courage to speak of him? I feel that it
J
rould do us all g if we would discuss the matter
rom his viewpoint, as I feel he might discuss it
nth us.”
From there I elaborated on the message given me
nd was rewarded later when I noticed that his
mother seemed decidedly comforted by what she
hought was my point of view of the tragedy.
A Vision In AnOpen Air Theatre
I attended an open air concert; a vision began to
orm during the second half of the programme, dur-
ng the commencement of Suite for string orchestra
'ram Opera 5, arranged by Ettore Pinelli, by Corelli,
nding with Novelette, by Giuseppe Martucci.
I have said I never get anything psychically unless
working and then, believe in it as amusement only,
however, it remains to be said that I am passionately
:ond of music; intensely sympathetic toward rhythm
>f all kinds. This fact may have attuned my mind
:o what I saw.
The conductor was leading the orchestra with great
kill and personal interpretation. There was scarcely
i movement in that immense gathering, so uplifted
vas the mind of the audience.
As I am * accustomed to working with my sub­
conscious mind, I was surprised to find myself strug­
gling for freedom from my conscious thoughts. The
music was so soothing to my mind, I questioned this
mental disturbance. I do believe that there is a great
power in the one-ness of thought; that the minds of a
I
I
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
large assemblage of people, in sympathy with onef
thought, can draw and electrify the vision of a per­
son who possesses the power to see beyond the normal,
people can barely feel.
and make it
I raised my eyes to the hills beyond the stage; I saw
a human shadow appear; then another; then several j
together. At first I thought they were normal human '•
beings, then I felt convinced they were not! j
These shadows gathered, and ranged themselves asI
if in sitting positions; their heads and shoulders made
distinct silhouettes against the skyline. I recognized
many of the most famous masters of musical art long j
past and gone. By this time the moon had set, so the j
figures showed up very distinctly. It was amusing to I
see late arrivals greet old friends, and make their way
to some vacant place. Some, I noticed, only waited a
short time; others stayed possibly after the vision
faded for me. I was strongly attracted by these men
whose movements showed so plainly their sense of
appreciation; boredom; slight criticism.
Then there came a pause in the music, one of those
moments which is full of expectancy. Suddenly there
seemed to be an intense movement of criticism among
the spirit listeners on the hill. One of the dead mas­
ters who sat immediately above the stage was mo­
tioned to take his place as the conductor, but he held
back, and he was urged on the more. Then those near
enough lifted him up and thrust him forward; he
seemed to hover in space above the conductor just
keeping outside the rim of light from below.
[44]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
My eyes dropped down to the orchestra conductor;
le had thrown back his head, his arms spread as if he,
oo, must see the vision of the master above. For the
raction of a second they both poised in exactly the
ame movement; the conductor before his orchestra,
he spirit above the stage.
As the orchestra began to play once more I looked
it both figures. It was obvious that the composer
ibove was moving just half a beat ahead of the con­
tactor below. As if leading him on; their movements
vere exact, as if it were man and shadow. The musi-
fians, too, seemed to rise to the occasion. It was
tuperb! At last it came to an end . . . that glorious,
narvelous music. The conductor bowed to his audi­
ence, the shadow bowed to his critics above. The
enthusiastic audience broke into a thunderous peal of
ipplause, the vision was broken; the picture was gone!
The Hickman Murder Case
There are times when we unconsciously subject
ourselves to evil contacts. In this particular case, I had
just completed a series of short fiction stories, the last
one was about a murder.
Before going to sleep I was thinking over the plot
of the story, trying to imagine whether it would
sound amateurish or whether a real murder could be
enacted by such methods as I had described in the
story.
The windows of my room were small and placed
rather high in the walls. They opened inward like
French windows and as I lay in my bed, admiring the
[4f]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
large branches of the tree that grew outside of one of
the windows, I noticed this window was darkened as
though a figure was filling the space. I was not afraid,
but, I wondered how anyone could reach it without
a long ladder. I had heard no noise and the place was
very still. The next instant a shoulder and head ap­
peared to come through the opening, and I was
naturally astonished, knowing there was a screen on
the outside. Before I had time to think, a young man
in a dark suit, with disheveled hair, stood before me.
I recognized him at once as young Hickman, the
murderer!
I was quite disturbed at the appearance of such a
visitor. “What do you want,” I thought.
In like manner he replied, “I am in Hell! You must
give a message for me, to the parents of the child who
was murdered. I cannot get away from this excruciat­
ing mental torture until they know. There were two
others involved in the crime who were more respon­
sible for what happened. I could not give them away
and took the blame but the family should know.”
I raised up on my elbow and stopped him from
telling me more of what he had to say in defense of
the case.
"No! No!” I thought. “You cannot tell me any­
thing. I am not in a position to deliver your message-
just because I have written a murder story does not
mean I am interested, or in sympathy with, crime!
There are dozens of people in Los Angeles who can
take your message, but you must go now. I cannot
[4«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
isten to a word you have to say, and I do not want
rou here!”
I put a great force behind my thought, to impel
lim to leave; he slowly turned around, with his shoul-
ers stooped, and began to climb out of the window.
JThen he had gone, I became quite frightened and
elt that I could not remain in the room alone for
he rest of the night. I was tempted to join my
nother in her room, then I decided this was a form of
weakness, and I should be strong enough to control
iny person or any bad influence that might come into
ny vision, so I remained in my room and fought
lown my fear.
The next morning at breakfast I related the inci-
ient to my mother. When I asked, "Is Hickman to
>e hanged?”
My mother replied, “Why, he was hanged yester­
day morning!”
“Well, now I understand how I could have seen
him,” I said. It is curious, yet a fact, that anyone
who is alive seldom appears to you in a materialized
form. You can have contact through mental telepa­
thy, but they do not appear in a materialized form
as a rule.
Fear
My work takes me out alone at all times of the day
and night. I have practiced, in moments of fear, to
ask for the invisible companionship of two friends
who have passed over on the other side. Although
there were no outward and visible signs of them, I
[47]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
was always conscious of being protected and perfectly ■
safe. The only material example that I could give .
for believing this happened, was the fact that if any­
one came toward me, they would leave as much space
in passing as though another person had been present.
Thought
j
If we knew our thoughts could be read as easily as •
our spoken words are heard, would we be more care-!
ful what we thought about? From observation I
believe that single thoughts go out and become dor­
mant in the ether, but, by a great number of people
registering the same thought, they gradually combine
their single forces and become a powerful unit. This
force of united thought then reaches a mind power­
ful enough to produce the desired thought into i
material object.
I believe it is very important to think construc­
tively at all times, because whatever we think may
link up in the ether with forces of the same intensity
and will gradually form a good or evil materialization.
Nothing material is created without concrete
thought. We should watch and balance our thoughts
as we do our audible enunciations or our thoughts
may get away, and out of control, and make us a prey
to emotions which we would normally avoid.
In giving a reading one should use discretion in
communicating information they receive psychically.
The client should come under observation as to
whether he is mentally constituted to stand certain
[«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
dverse or disturbing thoughts or whether the infor­
mation should be given to him in a diplomatic man-
ter so that he can ponder over it and yet not become
larmed or disappointed in his thoughts.
Why People Like To Have Their Fortunes Told
Young people have only two definite demands
vhen they seek a fortune teller. One is love; the other
s a career. The next phase is the young married
:ouple who may be disappointed in their eflforts to
:limb the social ladder or attain monetary success.
\gain one or the other may feel they are dissatisfied
:o go through their entire life with a particular per-
on, and in a vague way they do not want to break
iheir marital ties without some definite hope of meet-
ng another man or vice versa.
There are happily married couples where sickness
s the cause of a shadow in their lives and they want
to see if there is any possible chance of overcoming
this tragedy.
Then there is the divorced woman who is having
iiflficulty with her ex-husband, over children, finances
or the fact that he may want her to reconsider mar­
riage with him.
Perhaps a middle aged man who has made a for­
tune and lost it feels that he cannot take a subordinate
position and is considering suicide as a practical
means of escape. His life insurance will be a satisfac­
tory way of taking care of his family. Sometimes, as
a last resort, he will search out a reliable person to
' [49]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
find if they can foresee any financial come-back
for him.
Occasionally there is the woman who may have lost
her only child and the bereavement is more than she
can bear. She has lost faith in religion and other
forms of consolation and she needs a new viewpoint
on life.
I find many intrigues where either one or the other
party is married, and seek advice as to their course
of action.
There is the person involved in a law suit who has
a fear of the witness stand, or desires to know if he
will win his case. Sometimes an impending operation
will terrify a patient and he will wish to be assured
of its success.
My own opinion of reading is not that it changes
the destiny of the person, but rather, that by seeing
ahead they are given an opportunity to prepare them­
selves and perhaps gain an added confidence in their
success or strength in their failure.
In many cases this work is used by people as a form
of "light confession.” Friends and relatives would be
prone to criticize, while an understanding outsider
gives them a sense of security and a willingness to
unburden their problems and anxieties.
Good And Evil Uses Of The Psychic Power
Before I go any further into this form of demon­
stration I think I should warn all novices and people
interested in the cultivation of the psychic sense
[ 50 ]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
gainst the evil results as well as the good to be derived
rom such practices.
In commencing this work you have to submerge a
;reat number of the instincts that are natural pro-
ections to the conscious mind. Before doing this,
ou must be sure that you are working for GOOD
ind that you have control over the psychic sense be-
ore you attempt to use it in a definite form. With-
)ut this you are apt to tap some strong emotional
reactions which may control you, against your nat­
ural wishes. I always advise pupils to start their
work with an inanimate base of control such as a
crystal, tea leaves, cards or hands. Later they can
work with or without it, as they desire. This inani­
mate base permits the active conscious mind to keep
alert while the subconscious mind is functioning.
This psychic work can be used for good or evil. Both
are equally powerful.
First of all I will discuss it from the evil standpoint.
A medium without high standards will derive satis­
faction by reading the unethical practices of his
clients and will fail to give them any uplifting advice.
He shows them, rather, further opportunities to ex­
tend their evil practices.
Or, if a psychic allows the material remuneration
coming to him through his work to be his sole inter­
est, he will lose his spiritual grace, for when he de­
liberately uses his power for the material gain, he
weakens his psychic vision. To continue this over­
strain and keep his balance he demands artificial stim-
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
ulation, such as drugs or intoxicants which lower
spiritual standard further.
A conscientious psychic, on the other hand, will
use his power to point out the constructive course to
follow, whether it pleases his client or not.
This work, at its best, is a terrific mental strain
One always suffers a certain reaction, and to regain a
normal balance must force himself to take some form
of physical exercise. If this is not possible, fiction
stories of an active nature are helpful, but articles on
actual happenings should be avoided. If the psychic
is of a religious mind, a prayer is an excellent
stabilizer.
[n]
HANDS
bHDDS
BOOK TWO
for calling the left hand, “The hand you are born
with.” By this name it seemed to give a practical
reason to people who believe in reincarnation.
Sometimes when reading for a person, I will, when
tired, find myself reading the left hand, instead of
the right hand. The right hand is the one depicting
the life and future of the person being read for. I
feel by reading the left hand occasionally, that one
could map out a different life to the one lived by the
client, and this could be read as showing the life he
had previously lived in another incarnation.
If this is the case, then, if one wrote up the life as
it is written in the left hand perhaps one would sub­
consciously begin to remember incidents of a previous
life, lived, but forgotten.
After making this discovery, I wrote to the Psychic
Research Society in New York enquiring their re­
action with regard to such a psychic demonstration
[h]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
being possible. They replied that they thought there
could only be a soul-memory of such a previous exist­
ence, but, it could not be transmitted or manifested
in the physical.
I did not reply to the letter but I would like to have
pointed out that physical resemblance is often carried
down from one generation to another, and why could
not a spiritual reaction be brought to bear on the
physical by the soul-memory or subconscious mind?
Tbe Use Of Palm Reading For Children
Most children are too easily impressed by having
their fortunes (or futures) told in detail, but a de­
lineation of their character, health, outlook upon life,
by hand reading, is not harmful. In reading for a
child I point out the weakness and the strength in
their hands, and give them advice which will enable
them to realize the handicaps they must overcome.
The parents should certainly be told at what age
certain lines deteriorate and through adult knowledge
they may be able to help their child at these periods
to evade the difficulties shown in the hand.
For example: I read the hand of a child who was
extremely clever, but carried a strong streak of lazi­
ness on the head line. I warned him that unless he
overcame this defect he would not succeed in his
career until late in life. His mother was present at
the time of the reading and has helped the child to
overcome the weaker tendencies and he is, today, a
very brilliant college student.
In another case the child was being misunderstood
HANDS
by his parents and after glancing at his hand I real­
ized that he had an exceptional head line and would
understand all I had to say, and therefore I refused
to read for him.
Later I told his parents that they had a genius for a
child, and, although he was only eight years of age,
they must treat him in some respects like a normal
child of fourteen.
I have every confidence that this will prove a satis­
factory solution to their difficulties in handling him.
A mother who was interested in the lines of the
hands, brought her little girl to me to diagnose the
unusual markings on her child’s hands. I found that
particular formations were going to make the child
very headstrong, and possibly outstanding in some
career, but due to the omission of another strong
structural line in the hand, it might cause an un­
balanced result in the child’s undertaking, and at these
points of vital decision in her life, the parent might
find her difficult to manage, if she did not know
beforehand, how to guide her.
I gave the mother some valuable advice which
would give her a better insight into her child’s
character.
Definition Of Hand Structure
After reading many thousands of hands I am con­
vinced that most of us have mental changes every
five or six years. Those that show the clearest on
feminine hands are usually seen from seventeen to
twenty, twenty-five to twenty-seven, thirty to
[J7]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
thirty-three, thirty-nine to forty-one, forty-seven to
fifty. After this there is not so much change until
from fifty-eight to sixty; then a lapse to sixty-seven.
The changes with men are more gradual, showing
on the hands usually about twenty-two, then not
again until twenty-six to twenty-seven, again at
thirty-two, then not until thirty-nine to forty, and
not again until fifty. Later changes are more in keep­
ing with the changes on the feminine hand.
Sometimes the changes take the appearance of am­
bition, dissatisfaction, or simply restlessness. The
moves we make at this time are important to the years
that follow. The difficulty with most people is, that
the changes do not always dovetail with their en­
vironment. With married people there is often a
danger that the change does not work out at the
same time.
If there is a strong change in the feminine hand,
and there is a strong bond of sympathy with the male
interest, the unaffected party will adjust himself to
the altered viewpoint of the other. Where no sym­
pathy exists, there is an anxious period during this
time. Often people are too impatient to believe in a
readjustment, and a definite break is made, before the
other readjustment period takes place.
With unmarried people these periods of readjust­
ment will often show in the form of a desire for a
change of work, or to get married if they have pros­
pects; to travel; to go in for a new hobby, or often
spending money or saving money in an abnormal
way. Whatever happens to appeal to a man or wo-
HANDS
man, will, at these times be more dominant than dur­
ing the intervening years, and it depends how they
have been trained to control these desires or emotions,
as to how powerfully these forces will react upon them.
What Truth Is There In Palmistry'?
An undertaker once remarked that he had studied
palmistry and that there was no truth in it. He had
proved this by looking at the hands of the dead
brought into the morgue, and in the majority of cases
the young people who had passed on, all had full-
length life lines. How could they have this, and yet
die in their twenties and thirties?
If palmistry were correct, the life line should be
obliterated at this age. This is the conclusion that
any novice might draw. In eighty per cent of the
cases, it is from unnatural causes. If it is from an
accident, such as a blow on the head, a death of this
nature is usually marked on the head line, by a com­
plete severance of the line, or some peculiar cross or
markings. If from nervous disorder, the reaction
would show on the nerve line, in conjunction with
the head line. In some cases this will show by a badly
broken nerve line, and a drop branch descending from
the head line and entering the nerve line.
In the case of accident or heart disease, it would
show by a bad break or spot, on the heart line. From
drowning, the record may only appear on the water
journey line, by a cross.
A broken back, internal injuries, generally show on
[w]
YOUR. INVISIBLE SELF
the life line by a complete severing of this line at the
period of the fatal accident, or from a line which will
cut through the life line and often attack the fate
line or some other major line on the hand. When
paralysis is the cause of death, this may only show in
the nail formation.
My Rules For Reading
I have definite rules in my form of reading for
people. I lay more stress on the mental achievements
than on the affairs of the heart.
In the event of marital upheaval, I am opposed to
advising divorce, except where it is absolutely neces­
sary. I never encourage affairs of married people with
outside interests. •
For.men I devote the entire reading to business and
health, except when they ask me for some special ad­
vice concerning their marriage ties, then I discuss the
matter according to my own viewpoint.
After clients leave me, I dismiss them completely
from my mind, and neither speak of them, or think
of them again. I feel that I have no right to influence
or accept their burdens beyond the work I accomplish
while they are with me.
My work is not carried on among the general pub­
lic. I have no form of advertising except through the
medium of recommendation of a client, to one of
their own special friends. Through this manner of
communication I have kept a clientele of exception­
ally pleasant, intelligent and interesting people.
£«o]
HANDS
THIS DRAWING SHOWS ALL THE MAJOR LINES TO B
FOUND ON ALL NORMAL HANDS
(61]
i
I
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
How To Read The Hand Charts 1
The simple rules contained in the following para- j
studied hand analysis. It is an amusing and instruc-■
tive form of entertainment. .
First study the chart and the meaning of the lines j
to be found in the hand. Be sure you always study i
the RIGHT hand. The right hand is the one you;
live, and the left hand is only a form of reference,;
being the one described as “the hand we are born
with.”
Commence with the line on the chart marked (1).
(1) The LIFE line begins between the thumb and j
the first finger on the hand, completing its course:
round the base of the thumb, at the wrist. I
When the line is unbroken, good health 1
and old age may be expected. A short line indicates'
a medium length of life. If the line is completely '
severed at some point on its downward journey, ill
health or bodily accident may occur at the period on
the line where it is disrupted. If small islands appear ,
on the line, at the place they are found, the health of I
the person will be below par for the duration that the
island is visible. A long chain formation of islands is
not a favorable sign.
The life line should be strongly marked with no
interruptions, to insure robust health.
When the life line is found to be forked at the close
of life, it usually denotes that the person will die j
a long distance from the place of his birth.
[«2]
HANDS
(2) is the HEAD line. This line commences at the
line point on the hand as the line of Life. When the
ead line is joined to the life line, at the beginning, it
enerally indicates that the person will be closely at-
iched to his family or influenced by those close to him,
uring the early stages of life.
When the lines are apart, as on the chart, a more
idependent type of personality may be expected.
A long, straight head line, indicates an aptitude to
:arn; a good memory; a forceful mind that is deter-
lined to rise above the average.
If the line shows a perceptible downward slant, the
jrm of knowledge will follow more artistic lines.
Then the line is short and forked at the end, the line
f thought will be strongly diversified, a business-like
find, with artistic tendencies. When the line is short,
without a forked ending, provided it is deeply marked,
: indicates that the ambition of the person will fol-
>w one idea for many years, without any extreme
hange.
When the head line is completely broken at any
lace on its course across the hand, a nervous upset,
great mental anxiety, or a blow on the head, could
e possible at the place indicated by the break on
he line.
In cases where the head and heart line are combined,
aaking only one line, instead of the usual separate
ines, it will be noticeable that the mind will, at
criods, completely dominate all action of the heart;
dfile at others, the heart will take complete control
f a situation. Such people should be advised to keep
[e]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
strict hold over their emotions. A distinct double
head line is a very favorable sign and seldom found.
(3) is the HEART line and starts from the same
(direction as the preceding lines. When beginning un­
der the first finger and crossing the hand as seen on
the chart, it indicates an honest, lovable disposition.
If it passes from one side of the hand to the other, it
gives a personality overruled by the heart in every
direction, and decision.
When short, but well defined, it gives a colder dis­
position, but, nonetheless faithful, whether in love or
friendship. When the heart line is very short, and
faintly defined, the possessor will be inclined to be
callous and heartless when weighing matters concern­
ing the heart; a mental decision will always take
precedence.
If the heart line is severed, it generally means that
the person has suffered a great disappointment in love.
Small, dark spots, like the head of a pin, indicate a
severe quarrel; a decided break, or even the death of
one who has at some period, been very close to them.
Islands appearing on the line can indicate a separa­
tion for the period the islands last, a reunion where
the line becomes normal again.
Small, hairlike lines, descending from the heart line
toward the head line, concern a fretful anxiety over
someone you may love; if rising, the reverse. This
condition will only be noticeable and last for a short
period, at the age indicated by the placement oi
the line.
(64]
HANDS
(4) is the MARRIAGE line. This line lies clearly
lefined in the creases made between the little finger
nd the heart line, entering from the outside of the
land. The nearer this line approaches the heart line,
he earlier the marriage. When found higher in the
land, the marriage will not occur until the thirties,
>r later.
The short lines often seen between the longer lines,
lo not indicate marriage. They may be short-lived
mgagements or love affairs which do not culminate
n marriage. If the marriage line is strong and forked
it the end, it gives outstanding material gain through
the union. If bent downward until it touches the
tieart line, it is generally a sign that the person will
one day become a widow or widower, by this mar­
riage. If the line is cut through by a descending line,
it is probable that some difficulty will prevent the
marriage from taking place at the time indicated on
the hand, but not necessarily permanently.
(5) Children. The number of children are shown
by short, perpendicular lines found below the little
finger and descending to the heart line, or near it.
Very short, indistinct lines mean more love for chil­
dren than having them. For boys, take the heaviest
lines; the girls, the fainter marked ones. If an island
shows on the heart line beneath the child fines, it is a
sign that there is not likely to be a large family. If
the child line is broken in half, or carries a cross on it,
delicacy at certain growing ages may be expected.
(6) Tlx FATE line. This line begins at the base of
the hand, and mounts upward toward the fingers.
[«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
When it is separated from the life line, by a small
space, this denotes the most favorable placement for
the fate line. The person will suffer less interference
and quicker development in his undertakings. If
straight and unbroken there will be little to detain
him on his steady march to success. When wavy, it
will mark a time of indecision. When broken in parts,
this will give the times of arresting periods in the pro­
gression to success.
(6A) FATE line. This line is found rising from the
life line. It indicates a greater struggle for achieve­
ment and recognition. Success for such people is
often reserved for their thirties or early forties. They
have to make their own way in life, and seldom get a
strong helping hand to influence their rise in the
world. When a second fate line rises independently,
and not joined to the life line, it will seem, as life
progresses, the successes will be more easily achieved
and take on more the type of success as found in the
fate line marked (6). Crosses or islands found on any
fate line are not favorable, but the delay caused will
last only as long as the marks take possession of the line.
(7) The HEALTH or Liver line. This line runs
down the hand from the base of the little finger, be­
ginning below the heart line or the head line. It
usually takes an inward turn toward the fate and life
line, as it descends. Its tendency is to show delicate
health of a bodily or nervous nature, which may at­
tack the person at the place where the line enters one
HANDS
>r more of the major lines of the hand. In case of ex-
optionallyhealthy people, this line is not pronounced.
Minor Lines Of The Hand
(13) Health and money line. This line is not found
n all hands, but often forms a protection against ill-
less, or money-loss when found close to the outside
>f the life line, and the life line is broken or an un­
favorable line, or an island is shown. To find this line
more distinctly, bend the thumb slightly into the
land, as if you were pulling on a glove. This action
makes the flesh rise a little over the life line, and
makes the health line appear stronger, if it exists.
When this line follows all the way down the hand, it
indicates that the person in question will never be in
dire need. When it appears only at intervals it means
riches will be much greater at these periods than at
any other time.
People who inherit wealth often do not have this
line and again where the money is easily made, it often
does not appear. This line is not necessary for the
possession of either wealth or health. In the case of
health, a natural, robust person does not need protec­
tion and the same in regard to some kinds of wealth.
(13A) The line of good fortune. It is a very for­
tunate line to possess. Not found in all hands. It
rises parallel with the fate line and when both are
distinct and unbroken, definite good fortune awaits
the possessor.
KO
{67 ]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
(14) Stars. Stars, in the hand, are good omens.
When found at the base of any finger, or at the be­
ginning or end of any line, they suggest helpfulness
to the success of that particular line.
(14A) Cross. A cross is a poor omen. Generally
considered as a form of interference of some kind,
affecting the line at the point it appears.
(15) Travel lines. These lines are not always
marked. However, when a journey is likely to bear
some definite significance on the life or interests of a
person, they are shown as lines entering the hand from
the outside, low down, near the commencement of
the fate line. (See chart for correct placement.)
There are other travel lines indicated on the base of
the thumb, but they are more difficult to read and
should not be studied until advanced in reading.
(15A) Time. Where the number is placed on the
chart on each of the main lines of the hand gives an
indication of time. The number put on the line indi­
cates the age of thirty-two. From the placement of
any of the lines up to the number is from one year
to thirty-two; from this point to the end of the line
averages up to ninety-two years. You will notice that
on the life line, as on all the others, the space given to
the time preceding thirty-two is greater than the
later years. Each year, as it passes, after thirty-two,
registers less space on the hand.
(15B) Time. You take your time direction from
the commencement of the head line. When this line
[««]
EXAGGERATED TYPES OF THUMBS, FINGERS, AND NAILS
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
is very short, you have to reckon your time closer
together. The fate line crosses the head line about
the age of thirty-two, or if the head line is placed
very high up on the hand, about thirty-four years.
(15C) Time. On the heart line the number is
placed to indicate thirty-three years, or a little later,
commencing from the same direction as the other lines.
(8) is the Thumb. The three sketches of thumbs
given are of the most definite types. A good length
of thumb, well proportioned, adds strength and in­
telligence to the activity of the other fingers. A short
thumb is slower of achievement, more cautious over
undertakings, inclined to hardness in decisions.
(8A) This drawing shows a thumb well placed,
with a slightly outward bend. This is the most de­
sirable thumb to possess. Its tendencies are toward
broad-mindedness; liberal in all things, and kindly
in all actions. This thumb type represents the busi­
ness, artistic type which is most satisfactory to possess.
(8B) This thumb is heavier, more square, and less
pliable than the first. It belongs to a person with a
firmer disposition, inclined to be stubborn, but honest,
thrifty and trustworthy. This thumb indicates a
man of nervous energy. People with this kind of
thumb generally get their money’s worth
(8C) This thumb is rarely found. It is the club
thumb. Like its appearance, it is unfavorable. Such
[70]
HANDS
i thumb goes with a hard disposition. It is the thumb
>f an extremist. If the urge is a good one, excellent
‘esults call be expected, but, if the urge is a bad one
t will be disastrous. Anyone possessing such a thumb
should always be warned to keep his mind well under
:ontrol.
(9) The artistic finger. This finger is shown in the
Erst finger drawing. It is smooth and inclined to be
pointed at the tip. If all the fingers on the hand fol­
low this type, the person will be very easily affected
by color, and interested in all artistic movements.
Change is essential to their happiness; change of place
and of people. They do a little of everything, but
seldom excel in any one particular thing, unless very
powerful lines in the hand counteract their natural
disposition. These people are often hindered by too
much kindness. People will go out of their way to
shield and protect them from the hard things of life,
not realizing they are often doing them more harm
•IO
(10) The Philosophic Finger. When all the fingers
follow this type, they represent a fairly large hand,
with bony knuckles, and a slight wasting of the flesh
between the joints, with a more rounded top to the
finger than the artistic. People with these fingers like
deep study. Minute detail in their undertakings is a
characteristic. They give more than can ever be re­
paid in money value. They follow theoretical, rather
than practical methods. They are sensitive and retir­
ing, but when once interested they will prove a vol­
ume of knowledge.
[71]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
(11) The Psychic Finger. This is an unusual type.
Such fingers are generally found on a slender and
narrow hand. This idealistic type can seldom face the
difficult problems of normal life. They live in a world
of their own, with ideals not to be found in everyday
life. Rebuffs and hardships are too much for them
to bear and they often fade out under any great stress
or hardship.
(12) The Spatulate Finger. This finger is of a
heavier type, the tips, to the first joint, shaping into
a spatulate form. It is possessed by persons of nervous
energy. It makes its owner a figure of independent
character and action. Whatever form of business or
profession he undertakes he will do it his own way,
or not at all. Sometimes this is a favorable action, at
others it can spoil an otherwise satisfactory venture.
Important Note On Hands
Now take into consideration that the perfect type
of hand is seldom found. The sketches given are
exaggerated to enable you to define the difference be­
tween types. Most human hands are less clearly de­
fined and are often of the mixed variety, one or two
fingers, only, indicating one type or another.
The forepart of the hand, from the wrist to the
knuckles, has the same outlined definitions as the
fingers, such as: A narrow formation from the wrist,
widening at the knuckles, will be the same as the
artistic fingers. The same definition applies to the
other types of hands and fingers.
[72]
HANDS
Look closely at thumb (8B). This is the square
ype and is often found in the formation of the finger
ips of the business hand. The shape of the forepart
£ the hand bears consideration with reference to the
ype of fingers it holds. Sometimes a hand will appear
quare and the fingers spatulate; by combining the
wo, you get a normal business man with the nervous
nergy of the spatulate disposition which will prob­
ably make him go farther than a one-type hand,
^gain, an artistic formation of some part of the hand,
:ombined with business ability, will make for the
irtistic, business mind, and so on.
(16) Nail type. This nail is usually found onstrong
people, but has the sign of bad circulation, which can
gradually undermine certain organs, if not corrected.
(16A) Nail type. People with this shaped nail
usually suffer from throat trouble. When the nail,
growing beyond the cushion of the finger, turns in­
ward, toward the palm of the hand, such people are
apt to suffer from bronchial trouble.
(16B) Nail type. This narrow nail usually raised
higher in the center, is not often seen and indicates a
very delicate spine, subject to nervous diseases.
(16C) Nail type. This nail generally is a good size,
and long. Lung delicacy can be looked for, or warned
against; also ear, throat and nose delicacy.
(17) Hair lines. These lines when found dropping
down from any of the main lines in the hand, are
[7J ]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
unfavorable. When ascending, they give strength to
the line and are a satisfactory sign.
(17A) Islands. These are shaped like the eye of a
large darning needle. They form at the end, middle
or beginning of any line, and are never a favorable
sign.
(17B) Broken lines. Any line can have a break.
The distance of space shown between the breaks in­
dicates the duration of the time lapsing before the re­
commencement of strength on the life line; work on
the fate line, mental or heart line, as the case may be.
Broken lines are often as much for betterment as for
dissatisfaction. Important good changes are indicated,
as often as bad ones.
[74]
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
Note: Do not mistake these small summaries of
he Zodiacal signs, with an individual horoscope.
Inese are only a generalization of the one sign, which,
it the exact hour of your birth, would be influenced
other planets, active at that time.
The favorable and unfavorable months will affect
»ne most strongly, just before and just after their
own birth dates, during the months mentioned.
4
tigds of The zoniac
The "Zodiacal Sign Of Aquarius
January 19 to February 19
BOOK THREE
ou were born in the Zodiacal sign of Aquarius,
symbolized by the "IDEAL MAN,” or "Water
Bearer,” which innately gives you a responsibility.
Element—Air.
Your chief characteristics are: idealism and be­
nevolence. You are impulsive and should think mat­
ters out carefully before making a decision. The
unexpected always happens. You are a true humani­
tarian; are artistic and gifted; sincere, and your in­
tuitive faculties so highly developed that you can
read the character of people upon the first meeting
with them. You are likely to be unfortunate through
associates. You are a keen observer and have a high
sense of inventive power. Curb the habit of too
much talk, it gives the other fellow a chance to take
advantage of you.
[77]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Favorable occupations: scientific or occult research
teaching, art, music, designing, electricity, aviation
writing, merchandising, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: defective circula­
tion and blood disorders; the throat, bladder and heart
are sensitive. Exercise and fresh air are your best
medicines.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people born in April, June, August, October and
December.
Favorable months when you should put. all things
forward, are: April, June, October and December.
Unfavorable months: May, August and November.
Aquarius children should be taught the rules and
regulations of social relations.
The T^odiacal Sign Of Pisces
February 19 to March 21
You were born in the Zodiacal sign of Pisces, sym­
bolized by "THE FISHES.” You often have the feel­
ing as though two individualities were trying to rule
you. Element—Water.
Your chief characteristics are: emotionalism and
sympathy. You are extremely sensitive and impres­
sionable and are apt to be taken advantage of, there­
fore, associate with people whose influence will help
you. Guard against self-indulgence of any kind, and
self-doubt; it only causes unhappiness and the feeling
that no one understands. Your symbol, the “TWO
[7S]
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
ISHES” represent one as being listless, effortless,
illing to drift with the stream; the other is a “go-
;tter,” swimming bravely upstream, dragging the
ther one along. Be a go-getter.
Favorable occupations: Lawyers, detectives, actors,
ocutionists, copyists, tailors, nurses, sailors, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: the digestive organs
nd the nervous system. The best medicine is to for-
et self by taking up constructive mental and physical
ork, aided by communion with nature, preferably
ear some large body of water.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
eople born in January, May, July, September and
lovember.
Favorable months when you should push all things
Drward are: May, July, November and January.
Unfavorable months: June, September and De­
ember.
Pisces children should be taught self-reliance.
The 'Zodiacal Sign Of Aries
March 21 to April 20
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Aries, sym-
olized by the "RAM.” Element—Fire.
Your chief characteristics are: energy and con-
ervatism. In business avoid surrounding yourself
nth other Aries people, for you do not like to be
ossed. You are a natural leader. Your over-enthu-
iasm may cause you to become intolerant of others;
179 ]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
independent and aggressive. You are prone to leap
before you look.
Favorable occupations are: executive, director of
sales organization, military career, mechanical pur
*
suits, carpenters, chauffeurs, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: the head and face,
the stomach and breast, kidneys, knees. Your best
medicine is fresh air and sleep.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people born in February, June, August, October and
December.
Favorable months when you should push all things
forward: May, August, December and February.
Unfavorable months: July, October and January.
Aries children should be taught self-control.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Taurus i
April 21 to May 20
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Taurus/
symbolized by the “BULL.” Element—Earth.
Your chief characteristics are: constancy and con­
servatism. You work best associated with others, but
be careful that under the management of others you
do not submerge yourself. You are too easily satisfied, '
which can lend to the tendency of becoming lazy.
Your temper is hard to rouse but once stirred you
can be unrelenting, therefore exercise self-control
from these outbursts. They are not only harmful to ,
yourself, but to your projects.
[so]
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
Favorable occupations: merchandising, financial
Executive work, geology, chemistry, farming, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: neck, throat, larynx,
^productive organs, lower bowels, circulation, spine,
leart and ankles.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
>eople born in January, March, July, September and
November.
Favorable months when you should push forward
ill things: January, March, July and September.
Unfavorable months: August, November and Feb­
ruary.
Taurus children should be taught to observe the
rights and privileges of others, for they are apt to be­
come selfish.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Gemini
May 21 to June 20
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Gemini,
symbolized by the “TWINS.” This sign makes one
twin-minded . . . wanting to do two or more things
at once; be at two places at the same time. It some­
times makes people born in this month unable to de­
cide which side of a question is the best to take, being
able to see both sides equally well.
Your chief characteristics are: readiness of compre­
hension and versatility. You are mentally impulsive,
observing, quick in speech, fluent and diversified in
thought. You have the tendency to start numerous
enterprises and should develop the tenacity of purpose
[si]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
to bring them to a successful termination. Curb ya
over-exaggeration and never make promises unit
you can fulfill them. You are apt to have a constat
desire for change, but should realize that only I
adherence to your objective, can you achieve yoi
success. One of your greatest faults is lack of co
centration.
Favorable occupations: public speaker, teach
news reporter, secretary, stenographer, commerc
traveler, salesman, lawyer, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: shoulders, arrni
lungs, hips, thighs, bowels, fingers and feet, and nerw
ous troubles brought on by anxiety. Cultivate bot|
mental and bodily rest.
Individually you would blend harmoniously wid
people born in August, October, February and April
Favorable months when you should push all thingf
forward: August, October, February and April. I
Unfavorable months: September, December and
March.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Cancer
June 21 to July 22
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Cancer, sym-j
bolized by the "CRAB.” The crab moves backward
but hangs on, so do the Cancer-born men and women.
Element—Water. i
Your chief characteristics are: tenacity and sensi­
tiveness. You are retiring and often a prey to moods;;
much shrewdness and common sense; emotional and-
sentimental; highly impressionable; have a vivid!
[82]
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
agination and retentive memory. You have a great
re for the home and its surroundings, and are apt
be very much concerned over the troubles of rela-
res; the welfare of children and the community,
anything you do, you proceed cautiously and often
nost imperceptibly, without much noise or self-
vertisement. Your greatest fault is lack of initiative.
Favorable occupations: writers, actors, interior
corators, social and domestic science teachers, hotel
anagers, stewards, nurses, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: stomach, breast-
>nes, knees, kidneys, head and skin.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
:ople born in January, March, May, September and
ovember.
Favorable months are those when all things should
: pushed forward: September, November, March
id May.
Unfavorable months: October, January and April.
Cancer children should be taught to give and take.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Leo
July 23 to August 22
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Leo, sym-
olized by the “LION.” Element—Fire.
Your chief characterictics are: faith and compre-
ension. You have a generous, large-minded and
apable nature. You are a natural leader and should
lever work under the command of others. You are
apable of realizing all ambitions, love comfort and
[w 1
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
luxury and if pampered, likely to become indoler
You may often be down, but you are never out. Yo
mind is active and intuitive. The love nature is stror
Avoid becoming snobbish. Like tomake a lot of mon
quickly.
Favorable occupations: stock exchange, finan
company promotion, management of theatre ai
amusement enterprises, orators, lecturers, astrologei
mechanics, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: spine, back, heat
circulation, ankles, neck, throat, urinary organs ai
lower bowels.
Individually you would blend harmoniously wit
people born in February, April, June, October ar
December.
Favorable months when you should push all thin,
forward are: October, December, April and June.
Unfavorable months are: November, February ar
May.
Leo children should be taught the practical side (
things.
The Zodiacal Sign of Virgo
August 23 to September 22
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Virgo, syni
bolized by the “VIRGIN.” Element—Earth.
Your chief characteristics are: practicability, dis
crimination, seriousness. You are a hard worker, an
very thorough in everything that you do. As a rul
artistic, literary and appreciative of the facts of life
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
s careful of money matters, neat, methodical, pre-
e, like to be left alone to carry out your tasks in
ace and quiet. Your greatest fault to guard
ainst is: fault-finding. Therefore realize that people
e human and make allowances for any so-called
saknesses.
Favorable occupations: carvers, metal workers,
jck making, civil engineers, gardeners, dieticians,
essmakers, writers and other artistic lines.
Sensitive parts of the body are: poor circulation,
digestion, bowel trouble and nervous disorders.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
jople born in, January, March, May, July and
ovember.
Favorable months when you should push all things
>rward are: November, January, May and July.
Virgo children should be taught generosity and re­
ad for the opinion of others.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Libra
September 23 to October 22
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Libra, sym-
olized by the "BALANCE.” Element—Water.
Your chief characteristics are: a sense of justice
nd a desire for equilibrium. You are extremely sensi-
ive and impressionable and easily swayed through the
motions. You must therefore be cautious and not go
o extremes. You find a disturbed or quarrelsome
itmosphere hard to support and give way to com-
[w]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
I
promise and always are ready to forgive and forget.
You do like ease and are apt to be lazy. You are Very:
restive and intuitive and should learn to rely on first'
impressions; they are generally right. A pat on the
back and you will work your head off; being criticized
renders you useless until you get over it.
Favorable occupations: judges, lawyers, librarians,
brokers, jewelers, milliners, chemists, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: indigestion, weak
stomach, fevers, head-aches, back-aches, liver, kidney
and skin trouble. Your best medicine, peace and quiet.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people born in February, April, June, August and
December. ,
Favorable months when you should push all things.
forward are: December, February, June and August.
Unfavorable months: January, April and July. '
Libra children should be taught self-reliance. :
ii
The Zodiacal Sign Of Scorpio
October 23 to November 21 ;
You were born in the Zodiacal Sign of Scorpio,
symbolized by the "EAGLE and the SCORPION” (
representing idealism and vindictiveness: "THE J
EAGLE” soaring over petty materialism, appreciating j
the great hidden truths of nature; “THE SCOR-1
PION” can become so obsessed with the idea that the'
world is against it, that it plans and plans how to
sting back. Element—Water. '
Your chief characteristics are: determination and
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
enetration; you have great magnetism and remark-
ble intuition. Your love of rulership is apt to make
ou domineering, as it unconsciously causes you to be
rusque and sharp. You are inclined to be suspicious
nd when people hurt you, you are likely to experi-
nce a desire to retaliate. You have an inclination
oward mysticism and occultism and a love .of prob-
ng mysteries and getting at the bottom of things,
fou do not believe in the frivolous or the incon-
equential; you have the power to make yourself and
hose about you absolutely happy or sadly miserable.
I fault that must be guarded against is: stubbornness
nd the refusal to accept criticism.
Favorable occupations: executives, surgeons, ana-
ysts, chemists, detectives, mechanics, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: the throat, heart,
ladder; reproductive organs are very sensitive; in-
lamatory complaints, bad circulation and blood poi­
soning are likely. Your best medicine plenty of water,
rest, sleep, fresh air, and a total abstinence from
liighly seasoned foods or stimulants is necessary to
tontinue in good health.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people born in January, March, May, July and Sep­
tember.
Favorable months when you should push all things
forward are: January, March, July and September.
Unfavorable months: February, May and August.
Scorpio children should be taught generosity and
kindness, and informed at an early age about the
mysteries of life.
[S7]
YOUR. INVISIBLE SELF
The Zodiacal Sign Of Sagittarius
November 22 to December 21
You were born in the Zodiacal sign of Sagittarius,
symbolized by the "ARCHER,” the centaurofmyth­
ology, half man and half horse, with his gaze on the
heights but with his feet always on the earth. Ele­
ment—Fire.
Your chief characteristics are: insight and fidelity.
You are naturally prophetic and intuitive; self-con­
fident and self-reliant; a lover of law and order;
frank, generous and sensitive. Your greatest difficulty
in life will be in making a goal for yourself, but once
you do, all your forces will tend toward the attain­
ment of it. You are capable of picking out the weak
points of others and should avoid careless criticism;
cultivate tact and diplomacy. Your faults are apt to
be: extravagance, recklessness, too great a faith in
luck, a tendency to know a little of everything.
Favorable occupations: banking, traveling, religious
work, brokerage, medicine, astronomy, astrology,
speculation, equestrian, buyer, shipper, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body: affections of the lungs,
poor digestion, blood disorders, accidents and injuries
to the limbs, over-exertion and nervous depletion.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people born in February, April, June, August and
October.
Favorable months when you should push all things
forward are: February, April, August and October.
Unfavorable months: March, June and September.
[««]
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
Sagittarius children should be taught to keep away
From mental and nervous stimulation.
The Zodiacal Sign Of Capricorn
December 21 to January 19
You were born in the Zodiacal sign of Capricorn,
symbolized by "THE GOAT”; you mount to heights
Jut always feel that you have more to overcome than
my other person ever born. Element—Earth.
Your chief characteristics are: understanding and
iiplomacy. You are methodical and careful with
natters entrusted to you. Secretiveness and suspicion
may keep you from many friendships. It is necessary
For your own betterment that you mingle with
people, both-socially and in business. The tendency to
live within yourself will cause you to lose opportuni­
ties and make you moody. You can attain great
heights if you will only set your mind to it, as you
possess ambition, endurance and practical application.
Favorable occupations: politics, mining manager,
government employee, labor exchange official, mason,
clay, tile or cement worker, assayer, builder, minister,
grocer, organizer, stock raiser, etc.
Sensitive parts of the body are: injuries to the lower
limbs, the knees especially, melancholia, colds, rheu­
matism. Your best medicine is hope, cheerful society,
warmth, comfort and rest.
Individually you would blend harmoniously with
people bom in March, May, July, September and
November.
[w]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Favorable months when you should push all things
forward are: March, May, September and November.
Unfavorable months: April, July and October.
Capricorn children should be encouraged to learn
the art of play, and the value of being a "game loser.”
[>o]
A TEA TABLE ENTERTAINMENT
For my special tea-leaf reading, I always use the
black India Ceylon Tea. The leaves are more stalky
than other Indian tea and do not all spread out flat
when the boiling water is poured onto them. The
stalk-like leaves form the roads, boats and initials of
people.
Use a cup with wide circumference.
DRAWINGS OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
TEA FORMATIONS
3 Ten T3)Bi(ei
e|llT3BT3inM€|T
*
T
K FOUR
ake a small quantity of tea between thumb and
first two fingers, crush and allow to fall into the cup.
For yourself, think of your own desires; for a friend,
concentrate on the person, while dropping the leaves
into the cup. Pour boiling water onto the leaves,
allow to steep; pour off slowly, all but enough to
cover the leaves. Swish the tea around the cup three
times, pausing between each.
Drain the remaining water into the saucer and
while doing so, try and bring as many of the leaves
as possible into a group on the side of the cup. To
complete draining the cup, prop it upside down on
the edge of the saucer, one edge resting on the table.
After a moment turn the cup, right side up and look
first at the water drained onto the table, if any. If it
is clear, without any leaf in it, the person’s immediate
worries will not be serious. If certain leaves appear
[«]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
in the water, whatever they represent will have some­
thing to do with the worries in store for them.
SAUCER READING
All objects will be seen in silhouette. In comparison
with all other objects, people are very small, often
only the width of a pin and about one-fourth the
length or smaller. Usually all matters here refer to
immediate events. Notice if the tea water covers the
entire saucer. If the water outline is a half moon,
refer somewhere to an incident taking place at night.
Long, narrow flat leaves—Persons. Men: tapering at
head and base; women: wider at base—Fig. (1).
Heart-shaped leaf, with or without person—Person of
affection—Fig. (2).
Light or dark leaf—Indicates complexion of person.
It shows at other times the nature and difference in
soil of land, when the tea-leaves represent property.
Small, flat, pointed leaves—Business buildings, gener­
ally larger than house leaves—Fig. (3).
Single, long rounded stalks—A journey—Fig. (4).
Double, long rounded stalks—A journey and return.
Flat, shapeless leaves—Acreage or vacant lot.
*
Quantities of tea dust—Crowds, parties, entertain­
ment, when near houses. Without location, gossip
—Fig. (5).
*Leaves representing people near vacant land, means possible buyers. Rise
in money values can be considered. Link up adjacent objects (Le., A house, a
journey, a business building and people, etc.) and make up your own little story.
TEA TABLE ENTERTAINMENT
CUP READING
Empty the cup with the right hand, then hold cup
by handle, in left hand, to read. Read events on far
rim, following down to the base of the cup.
Directions
Top of cup—North to Northeast.
Base of cup—South to Southeast.
Right hand—East.
Left hand—West.
Large group of leaves on side of cup—Consider as a
map of the United States or the country lived in
by the person being read for—Fig. (6).
Two or more large groups of leaves—Towns to be
visited by consultant. Time indication shown by
placement in cup. When maps join by stalks, leaves
in groups return to first place of departure can be
expected—Fig. (7).
Single group of leaves found in cup—No immediate,
radical change except short, local trips, indicated
by roads.
Rounded, long stalks seen uppermost traversing maps
—Roads. If stalks join and reach edge of map,
Coast journey is indicated. If terminating inland,
note if at house, vacant land or business building,
etc. Roads often form initials of persons of interest
YOUR. INVISIBLE SELF
to consultant, whom they will meet where the road
terminates. At other times, numbers form, these
give dates of action or time of interest to personal
affairs.
Leaves banked on rim of map—Mountains. If of in
terest, road will lead here.
Depressions between banks of leaves on map—Valley.
Watch for roads leading here.
Groups of flat, light-colored leaves—Desert. Watch
for roads leading here.
Small spaces in maps, minus tea-leaves—Lakes. Watch
for roads leading here.
Threadlihe spaces minus tea-leaves—Rivers or streams.
Watch for roads leading here.
LW
People, houses, land, objects of importance, show
as individual items on the side of the cup beside the
maps. Their proximity to the maps indicate their
connection with that particular part of the map. When
a person gets very familar with this form of reading,
they will observe people inside the maps, but not at
first.
Short, stalk-like leaves—Boats. When seen in the
ocean on the side of maps. Long distance from
map will mean a far voyage. When boat appears
near coast, short trip may be predicted, or, when
people appear between boat and shore it will be the
arrival of friends by water—Fig. (8).
1961
TEA TABLE ENTERTAINMENT
Collection of dark leaves surrounded by light ones—
Oil Land. Property. Oil or mineral land found in
maps as well as on other parts of cup. Minerals are
the same formation of leaves but lighter in color.
Note whether roads lead here and whether land in
map is wet or dry when considering
omen.
Vea-stalk rising perpendicularly from flat leaf inside
map—Airport. If more than one, note locality for
indications of trip taken. Wet or dry for pre­
dictions.
Airmail—Look outside of maps for silhouette of aero­
plane. Possibly numbers of letters will show nearby
—Fig- (9)-
Automobiles—Appear outside of maps. When two
meet, collision. One near road, journey by automo­
bile can be predicted. Several people standing by
car: dry, buying car; wet, theft—Fig. (10).
All objects outside of maps are indicated in outline,
as to what objects in life they resemble.
Affection—Look for heart-shaped leaf or silhouette of
a person near lip of cup. When not found here,
there is a distance or an obstacle to be overcome.
When married, a separation by journey or other
reasons may be looked for.
Marriage—A collection of people with heart-shaped
leaves dotted among them.
Engagement—Tiny circle of leaves around two
people.
[»7]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Wish—After draining, if cup is free from water,
wish is assured. If damp, it will be delayed; if sn
streams of tea-water run out, it is a bad omen.
Sickness or death—Spade shaped leaves or
stalks crossed—Fig. (11).
Divorce—Two houses holding dampness when placed
close together. People sometimes present.
Birth—Two leaves representing people, with small
square object between them.
Money—Indicated by quantities of small specks with­
out definite location or form.
Legacies—Property or money derived from inherit­
ance will stand nearby death indications.
Checks—Long, narrow, flat leaves close to money—
Fig- (12).
Letters—Small specks of tea with a noticeable dis­
tance between each—Fig. (13).
Surprises—A. leaf half folded, like a piece of note
paper, top-side slightly raised. Dry: good indica­
tions; wet: the reverse.
Jealousy—Dry circle of tea forming round or near a
person.
Naval Officer—Man seen in water near ship on coast
line. (See maps for this.)
[98]
TEA TABLE ENTERTAINMENT
lilitary Officer—Man seen with flag-shaped leaf
nearby.
awyer—Man with book-shaped leaf at feet or close
to him.
doctor—Man standing near table in bending position,
as if looking at someone.
7idower or widow—Man and woman with death in­
dications close at hand, but must be dry or it repre­
sents sickn
divorced person—Man or woman standing near two
houses holding water.
”tme—From the rim to the base, approximately six
to eight months. Up the inside to the rim, as far
ahead as three years.
[99]
CARD READING
CWVD
BOOK FIVE
people enjoy reading cards as their base
for concentration. I use a very simple form, which
can be used very satisfactorily by the student.
I take a pack of cards and remove the 2, 5, 4, 5,
and 6 from each suit; this leaves thirty-two cards in
the deck. I hand the cards to the person being read
for and ask her to shuffle the cards well, three times,
in whatever manner she prefers; then cut the cards
toward herself into three packs, face downward.
I then turn each pack, face upward and remove the
top card on each pile, and lay them on the table be­
fore me. Then I pick up the remaining three piles,
making them into one pack. I then deal out three
cards at a time, taking the highest card of the three,
and lay it next to the last card of the three mentioned
above (the top card from the first three piles), and
lay the other two remaining cards aside. This is carried
on through the entire pack, then the remaining cards
of the pack are given back to the party being read for,
I ioj ]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
who shuffles them three times, again, and returns them
to me, but does not cut them. This practice of going
through the deck and taking out the highest card,
continues until twenty-one or twenty-three cards are
lying in a semi-circle before me on the table. I then
look at the remaining cards, which are not gqing to
interest the person being read for, and discuss what
they contain.
Discards
If the wish card is in the discard, it does not mean
that the client will never get her wish, unless the re­
maining cards in the discard are very poor ones. It
only means a decided delay, and according to the
cards around it, what will hold it up or change the
wish.
Then the concentration is given to the cards on the
table, reading from left to right of the semi-circle.
In reading the cards it is very important to note
the cards surrounding those of the highest denomina­
tion. I usually read in sequences of three, five or six
cards, at a time, commencing at the beginning, or the
left of the semi-circle of cards. I must link the mean­
ing of each card up with the other cards concerned,
and from this material structure I build up my little
psychic story of my client’s future.
Time is determined sometimes from placements of
the events, where they occur in the circle of cards,
whether they are at the commencement, the middle,
or the end of the semi-circle. At other times the
cards bearing numbers, such as, two tens and two
sevens, surrounding the incident being discussed, I
[ 104 ]
CARD READING
speak of it as happening seven hours, days or weeks,
even months, as I may think. When the Ace of
Hearts, which means home, occurs toward the end of
the semi-circle, it means most of the events taking
place in the fortune will probably be demonstrated
outside of the home. When the Ace of Hearts is
placed near the commencement of the semi-circle, then '
some of the events surrounding it will be of vital in­
terest in the home.
Take the card representing the person being read
for by their coloring and with no connection with
the general definition of the card meaning.
Card Meanings
The Ace of Hearts—The house.
The King of Hearts—A gentleman of middle age, of
a friendly disposition, sometimes taken as a relative.
The Queen of Hearts—A woman with a pleasant dis­
position, friend or relative.
The Knave of Hearts—Alone, means a young man in
his twenties or early thirties, of good character and
affectionate disposition.
Ten of Hearts—The next best card in the pack, after
the wish card. Excellent influence for love or
friendship connections.
Nine of Hearts—The wish card. When it comes out
on the table it means that the wish will come true.
Eight of Hearts—Kind thoughts. emanates
from this card in conjunction with those on either
side of it.
[ioj]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Seven of Hearts—Pleasant company or good news.
Ace of 'Diamonds—A marriage, an engagement or a
big money scheme.
King of Diamonds—A man of middle age, good stand­
ing, generally. Usually wealthy 0/ having money
around him. If adjacent to the knave of hearts,
can mean a love interest.
Queen of Diamonds—Ablonde or red-headed woman.
Knave of Diamonds—A young man, rather selfish,
usually with money and at times kind-hearted.
Ten of Diamonds—A water journey or refers to the
seacoast or some interest near water.
Nine of Diamonds—Money in quantity to be dis­
cussed or in some way connected with the one
being read for.
Eight of Diamonds—Asmall amountof money, some­
times a raise in salary or an unexpected check or
gift of money. Sometimes only a discussion about
money.
Seven of Diamonds—Borrowed moneybeing returned
or a small amount to be spent or received.
Ace of Clubs—A business conference or a good busi­
ness influence.
King of Clubs—A nice middle aged man of strong
and reliable business ability.
(io« J
CARD READING
Queen of Clubs—A woman of talent, force and
achievement.
Knave of Clubs—A young man of forceful charac­
ter, often in a profession or high business position.
Ten of Clubs—A discussion over important business;
a directors’ meeting or some good business move of
importance.
Nine of Clubs—Personal business, sometimes refers to
a business change, usually satisfactory, but gen­
erally depending on the surrounding cards.
Tight of Clubs—Smaller business affairs.
Seven of Clubs—Cosiness letters or trivial happenings
or discussions of business.
Ace of Spades—May indicate a death, a serious illness,
a legal controversy or a document in the form of
some agreement, possibly of a government nature.
King of Spades—A middle aged man, sometimes a
foreigner, a widower, generally of heavy build, and
rather slow in making up his mind, over business
and love affairs.
Queen of Spades—A woman of middle age, some­
times a widow, easily depressed but kind-hearted.
She often acts as a go-between in upheavals.
Knave of Spades—A clever young man, generally out
for his own personal achievement, rather secretive
on business and personal affairs.
[107]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
Ten of Spades—A road journey.
Nine of Spades—A very disagreeable card; stands for
quarrels, breaking up of friendships, gossip, scan­
dal, some kind of definite annoyance; occasionally
it stands for an accident, or a traffic tag.
Eight of Spades—Bad news, annoyance in business,
some sort of depression.
Seven of Spades—Change in some capacity. Not very
satisfactory or pleasing. Disagreeable news byletter.
Card Sequences
When I have laid out the cards on the table, I may
get—
Three or Four Kings together—This is generally a
business conference.
Three or Four Queens together—A woman’s party,
gossip or a meeting of several old friends.
Three Knaves together—Gossip or scandal.
Four Aces together—Indicates some change of busi
ness or of household, which is not altogether satis­
factory to the person being read for.
Til
Three Aces together—Good results from a pending
decision providing the three Aces do not include
the Ace of spades.
Two Aces together—Jf they are of Diamonds and
[IOS]
CARD READING
Spades, money through a death or a lawsuit may
be expected. In all these cases, the surrounding
cards have a certain effect on the ultimate decision.
Four Tens together—A road journey; some water
connection which will involve the making of
money that should be satisfactory.
Three or Four Nines together—Money or business
disagreements which should eventually work out
satisfactorily.
Three Fights together—Change of house or business
generally satisfactory, unless one of the cards is the
eight of Spades, then it is disagreeable.
ThreeSevenstogether—Less important changes, agree­
able or disagreeable, as the general indication of
each card is read.
A Queen and Two Knaves together—A Birth.
In all sequences, card combinations strengthen the
effect and power of the actual value of each card,
such as: the King, Queen and Knave of Hearts would
indicate a very delightful, happily married couple or
a couple to be married. Clubs indicate the same defi­
nite culmination of a business deal; Spades, especially
the eight, nine, ace, or the seven, eight, nine, are indi­
cations of definite disaster.
Additional Reading Of The Cards
After I have completed reading the circle of cards
on the table, I gather them up, still keeping the dis-
[109]
YOUR INVISIBLE SELF
carded cards separately, and hand them to the client,
and tell her to shuffle them well, three times, and cut
them into seven small packs, from left to right on the
table, face downward.
Then I begin to pick up each pack separately,
commencing with the one they have first laid down,
and I lay them down in front of myself, face upward.
Then I take the next pack, and lay them below the
first, and so on, until I have seven little piles laid out
before me.
The first pack indicates the House; the second,
What is Coming to Yourself; the third, What you can
Expect; the fourth, What you do not Expect; the
fifth, What is Sure to come True; the sixth is Your
greatest Surprise, and the seventh is How your Wish
will turn out.
[no]
