{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__phyhlotus___esoteric_masonry_or_the_storehouse_unlocked.pdf","mytitle":"Esoteric Masonry Or The Storehouse Unlocked","mylang":"de"}
ESOTERIC l/IASONRY
OR TI-IE. STOREI-IOUSE UNLOCKED
The mention of the word Masonry, to the ordinary
mind, suggests a body of men possessing certain secrets,
which, to the uninitiated, are full of wonder. Should I
here announce to the Masonic world that they, as an organ-
ization, have not in their possession THE secret for which
all their rite and symbolism stands, they would be justly
startled. But such is the fact. It is not the purpose of
this work to review Masonry as to its origin, etc., but to
interpret its hidden mystic meaning to those "/Vho have
made prohciency and been duly passed." By some I shall
perhaps be thought a madman, by some as too vague for
clear understanding, and by some as undertaking the
im-possible. To all, I humbly ask a close and sincere study
of these pages; and, I have reason to believe, that if you
will .pursue this course, you will discover that "LIGHT"
which you have so fondly dreamed in your possessions
That there may be no violation of any oath or obliga-
tion I shall treat each question and answer as though they
were written out. ~
For, while this work is intended
primarily for Masons, the laity may read it with impunity
and be none the wiser regarding the "Secrets" If you are
a Mason, you may take your monitor and easily follow the
writer; you may have so thoroughly learned your lesson as
to be "bright" enough to do so without its assistance, for
I shall write no thing interdicted by the oath or obligation.
No well informed Mason will insist that there ever was
a lodge of Free Masons in the City of Jerusalem, yet this
assertion is made on at least one occasion in every Mason's
career. You have doubtless wondered why a statement is
made that history explicitly contradicts. Is the statement
false? By no means. At once you discover that you have
met a paradox or contradiction. And it will forever remain
4 ESOTERIC MAs~oN1;v
a paradox until you discover the-hidden meaning in'tl'ie
word "]erusa1em." Some writers interpret it to mean
"Foundation of peace," others have called it~ the:"Ci_ty of
God," "The Holy City," and ffHis dwelling place." :Suliice
it to say that the word traced to its'i'inal analysis in the
ancient and mystic Hebrew Kaballa means "House of
God." Now when you realize that -you are the "House of
God," "Wherein dwelleth His spirit" it will' be 'evident 'to
you'from whence the "'blirid" man came. Stfjohn yields
almost the same analysis a`s the word "Love," hence the
"Lodge" from whence he came is also evident to you'by
this time. Where there is love there is a
unionof forces,
or, 'I may say, a uniting into ONE of the same, though
coming from opposite poles, namely, the masculine and the
feminine. Throughout the universe there exists
`
this
principle, even in the God-Head: "Let US ma1<¢` man 'in
OUR image and after OUR likeness." 'The Spirit is the
feminine element and the Pneuma, or Holy Breath, is the
masculine. "And the SPIRIT moved upon the face of the
WATERS." It is very essential that you forever ke'ep in
mind these two words, viz.: Spirit and water. "And HE
breathed into his nostrils, etc." The union of these'two
forces in our bodies begets the psycho-physical germ
within us that announces its presence at the age of puberty.
Now- you. have' your candidate for the high-and sublime
art of Masonry with its deep and hidden "mysteries, and
in a symbolical sense it is "blind." Some have saidithat
the chief aim they sought was to learn to subdue their
passions and thereby improve themselves in Masonry.
By reference to the above statement you will not be~so
"B1ind?' as-not to discover the source of passion. Havnig
arrived at this age, he (the psycho-physical germ). -may
be. .considered an "Entered Apprentice." And ~I pause
here long enough to say, while I am anticipating just. a
little, it-_ is.. needful: .' The -Great Architect has .revealed
in -His word, though hidden by~sign and symbol, that
He 'intended for each male child to be taught the lesson
ESOTERIC MASONRY 5
of"the "Entered Apprentice" at the age of puberty, the
lesson of the "Tyler" at the age of Twenty-one, and
"Raised" to the sublime degree off the 'Master Mason at
the age of THIRTY. These times-and numbers are
deeply signiiicant and pregnant with 'hidden meaning.
Witness the-Great Master entering his public ministry at
the age of THIRTY.
°
The square has a hidden meaning
net suspected by those who gliblyause the word. Roughly
speaking, that portion of the anatomy vitally connected
with the man, reaching from near the center of the spinal
column downward (South) and outward (West) to the end
of the masculine organ may be termed a "Square," while
the compass is the right and left ovary of the feminine
with the womb as the point. -I may state here, that the
points of the compass as relate to man are these: North,
the head, Southgthe feet, I/Vest, the front, and East, the
rear of the body. This -may help you to understand the
"Darkness" that is said to obtain at one of these points.
This "Square" was intended to 'be an emblem of
"VIRTUE." Words, too," have' their hidden meaning,
without' which you will be unable to follow this text. I
may illustrate a few letters to give -you~ some idea of their
meaning when used by "Those who knew" in ancient days."
For instance, the Hebrew equivalentof our letter "A"` is
Aleph, meaning ox, or strength. For "'B7' they used
"Beth,"'meaning house. I shall not set down here the
entire' Hebrew alphabet, but one or two other 'letters taken
at random will suiiice. The letter "O" is indicated by their
sign Ayin, and the letter "Z" as Zayinf In their language
theword "Ayin" means "Eye" and "Zayin" a
"weapon,"
It will not be hard for you to discover now that the "candi-`
date" (the psycho-physical germ) has a "Weapon" which
at the same time is the"'Eye" and the "Strength" both 'of
which abide in the "House."
'
But, "Where was, or is, -'hel
initiated ?"~ In ancient days houses were not unlike many
of today, in that they consisted of "A ground floor, etc."
With only a little reflection, if you have any knowledge of
I
6 ESOTERIC MASONRY
-i-l_ _
anatomy at all, it will become plain to you where this germ
is born. It has its home, or rather its birthplace, in the
large PNEUMA-gastricnerve located in the Solar (Soul)
Plexus, and I -may say that this is the ground floor of the
temple, or body. Of course "his" "preparation" may have
occurred in another place, in fact it usually does, but it is
in close proximity or adjacent to the main room, and you
will find this "Preparation room" at the extreme north of
the body. That you may better understand what is to
follow, I will here note some truths that it is well to tix
firmly in the mind. It is well known that there enters into
the composition of the body several minerals. known as
cell salts: they are twelve in number, and are the "Twelve
foundations" noted by the Great Seer in the book of Reve-
lation. These minerals are ever present in the BLOOD
finding their way into the minute cell life of the body. But,
when nature would manufacture the life force within us,
she appropriates the strength of the blood, divesting it
of all minerals, or cell salts, leaving it more of a whitish
color than red. If you will pardon a seeming digression, I
will enumerate the twelve "Men" contained in the body.
Ist, The bony man. 2nd, The muscular man.
3rd, The
lymphatic man. 4th, The veinous man. 5th, The arterial
man. 6th, The cerebro-spinal man. 7th, The tubular man(
8th, The sympathetic man. 9th, The nerve man; Ioth.
The liver man. Ilth, The conscious man. 12th, The sub-
conscious man, and the mystic "Thirteenth" the life force.
All of these "Men," as you will observe, have a "Home" or
stated`p1ace in the body save the life force, "he" is "not
clothed, but clothed upon." I suspect that if the reader
will studyclosely, he may discover the hidden meaning in
the words of the' Great Master, "I was naked and ye
clothed me not." Perforce, I am led to discuss a; phase
of this matter that at first may seem foreign to the subject'
in hand, but close scrutiny will discover its vital connection.
The Spiritual body is mentioned too often in the scriptures
for me to undertake to prove the actuality of its existence'
ESOTERIC MASONRY 7
in these pages._ Assuming that my readers accept_this fact,
I will proced accordingly. Man is a trinity in his unity.
He has a physical, intellectual and spiritual being, alsosa
physical, psychic and spiritual body. The physical body as
the vehicle through which these other attributes manifest
or express themselves. I shall here make a statement that
is written throughout the whole Record and may at first
startle you; in fact you may class me with Agnostics or
unbelievers, but "He who runs may read" and those who
have "Made proiiciency" and "Having eyes" will see. There
are three 'worlds with which man has to do. This one, for
which he is given a physical body. The psychic world, or
home of the soul, for which he is given a psychic body.
And the spiritual, for which he is given a spiritual body.
Now his sole business in this world is to build a
perfect
"Temple" or physical body, for he HAS ABSOLUTELY
NOTHING TO DO WITH HIS SOUL BODY IN THIS
WORLD, this body belongs in Paradise, or that inter-
mediate state between the physical and spiritual worlds.
The Great Master utters a warning to men not to do this
thing in the words "'/Vhosoever shall save his life shall
lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall
find it." Men have been busy trying to save their soul
(Physic) self and have overlooked the very thing for which
he is in this earth. Plainly, "Whosoever shall save his
life (Soul, or Psychic self) shall lose it, but whosoever shall
lose his life (Soul, or Psychic self) FOR MY SAKE shall
find it." The mystery grows deeper, but I beseech you as
you value immortality, pursue these lines to the end. It'
is the He Phren, or lower mind of men, that has strayed,
and it is to this thing to which we are to give our sole and
undivided attention. I cannot proceed further with this
mystery of mysteries unless I take you just a little further
into the past. The word "Jesus" traced to its last and final
analysis means "Ictus" or "Fish." You will now recall
how much the Great Master had to say concerning lish,
choosing his disciples from among fishermen, telling them
8 ESOTERIC MASONRY
that He would make them "Fishers of men." Before
_entering fully into the explanation of the word "]esus,"
"Jesus Christ" and "Christ jesus," for the words havea
dilierent meaning as wide as the poles as we shall see anon,
it is imperative that we unfold some of the deep hidden
mysteries concerning "Temple building." It is absolutely
true in every Man's life, that, 'when the Moon enters the
sign "OPPOSITE the sign occupied by the Earth at
birth,
or _to be exact, when the Moon enters the sign occupied
bythe Sun at birth, there is born within him what is known
as _the Psycho-physical germ, and this germ matures until
th_e'Moon reaches the sign that the Earth occupied at birth,
and for two or three days thereafter. These germs are
the, "Stones" prepared by "Hiram" for the building of the
"Temple" and which the rnan
wisely uses if he has thor-
oughly learned the Tyler's lesson. Further, it is needful
to. ,interpret the hidden meaning contained in the story _of
the Garden of Eden. To fix it firmly in your minds I will
quote from the Book of Genesis. "And a river went out
of"Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was
parted, and became into four heads. The name of the first
is;'13is<sn= that is it which compasseth the whois land of
Hayilah, where there is gold; and the gold of that land is
good: there is bdellum and onyx STONE. And the name
ofthe second river is Gihon; the same is it that compasseth
thewhole land of Ethiopa. And the name of the third river
is-ll-Iiddekel: that is it which goeth toward the East of
Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates." The sym-
bolism employed here is unique. Eden, is a symbol repre7
senting the head, or the NORTH of the body, and is it
not;_"Dark" in Eden?, while the "Garden" is a symbol
representing the rest of the body. Now witness how the
story unfolds. Pison is the first river mentioned, and com-A
passeth (surrounds)) that part of the body containing the
"Gold," and is the entire uninary system of the body. _Gihon
is _'the large alimentary canal leading from the stomach to
rectum, carrying to Ethiopa (blackness) the refuse of
ESOTERIC MASONRY 9
the body. Hiddekel represents the entire circulatory system
of the body, embracing the heart, veins and arteries. Did
yon notice that there was no statement made concerning
the FOURTH river, except that its name_ is Euphrates?
''el1, this word means "Good River" and is that mystic
river of life force in the body. Now you have the ONE
river beginning in Eden, at the mouth, terminating in the
stomach, and from thence parted into four heads. Simple
is it not? VVe have said that there was a vast difference
in the names "Jesus/' and "Jesus Christ" and "Christ Jesus."
``e shall now take up their analysis.
JESUS. .
._ .-s before stated the word "Jesus" means "Ictus" or
"Fish," Plainly "Jesus" is the psycho-physical germ, or
spermatazoa in the semen. Let us see if wefare true to the
Record, for if not, then all our work is the veriest rot. The
Book tells us that "he" was born in "Beth1ehem of Judea."
'What does the word "Bethlehem" mean? "Beth" means
"House" and "Lehem" means "Bread.". Is not this germ'
born in the large Pneuma-gastric nerve? .And is not this
nerve located _in the "House of Bread?" But we are told
that "he" was born in a manger. Is not the stomach the
"Manger" of the body? "There was no room for 'him' in
the 'Inn' (the head)." "He" next appears at the "Age of
twelve," disputing with the doctors, in the "Temple/' _Is
not the age of twelve the average age of puberty the world
over? And does there not occur a dispute with "The
Doctors of the Temple `(tl1e faculties -of the He Phren, or
lower mind)" and this new force? Is it not true that the
Book is strangely silent concerning "him" until "he'f
reaches the _age of THIRTY? What was "he" doing all
this time? 'Ve are told that "he" was working at the car-
penters' (builders') trade. Building what? Plainly "he"
was building the "Temple" The River Jordan is used
as a symbol to represent the spinal column through which
10 ESO.TERIC MASONRY
-l--
the life force Hows. It empties its waters into the Dead
Sea located far below the level of the ocean, Scientists have
observed a peculiar habit of the fish which inhabit this
river, that of swimming in a continuous line. Mark, not
a straight line, but a CONTINUOUS line. As these fish
grow older they move toward the Dead Sea where they
are washed upon its shores and become food for birds of
prey, for it is a significant fact that absolutely no life exists
in these waters. Again remember that this sheet of water
HAS NO OUTLET. Now this psycho-physical germ
(Jesus) is the spermatazoa in the semen swimming in a
continuous line. Now learn this lesson of tremendous
import which Almighty God has tried to teach you' even
from the earth. The Dead Sea is only a
symbol of the
womb of the physical woman where you may pour your
life force as the Jordan does its waters into the sea by that
name, but remember that there is no outlet. The fish in
the jordan soon perish when they reach the Dead Sea. So
the germ of man when exposed to the air soon ceases to
manifest any life, but I have to tell you that the LIFE of
the germ, or active principle, is not LOST. /Vhat then
becomes of it? Read the ninth verse of Fifty-third Isaiah
and you will find the answer. It is said, that
"
'he'~made
'his grave with the wicked."
"
'He' was crucified between
two thieves." It further states, that "he" was "with the
rich in 'his' death." We are told that joseph of Arimathea
"came and begged 'his' body and buried it in his own new
tomb," and 'tis said that joseph "was a rich man." What
is 'the hidden meaning here. Plainly, this germ is cruci-
Hed "between two thieves." Is not the Masculine and
Feminine usually present in the sex relation? And is it
not BETWEEN them that "he" is crucified (crossi{'ied)?
Has "he" not made "his" grave with the wicked? Your
wickedness in this matter will appear anon. The word
"Joseph" means "added to," while the word "Arimathea"
means~"Place of the heights." _Toseph is that force in the
universe that takes the LIFE of the slain germ and adds-
ESOTERIC MASONRY ll
,T_,_i.
it to the heights of the Father, but it is lost to the one
guilty of its death upon earth. /Ve have noted that this
peculiar body of water is located below the level of the
ocean. So the physical womb of woman is, or ought to be,
below the level of your THOUGHTS. Now why this
seeming degression? That you may understand that these
germs are the "Stones" furnished you by the Great Archi-
tect for the building of YOUR "Temple" or bodyf You
will doubtless understand better now how it was that the
"Temple went up without the sound of a hammer." But
to continue our inquiry about "_Iesus." Let us follow "his"
history, keeping forever in mind the primary meaning of
the word. We are told that "he" was conceived by the
Holy Ghost. Literally the word is Holy (Pneuma) Breath.
The word "Mary" is an extract from the ancient Hebrew
word "Mem" meaning "Water." The meaning of the word
"joseph" has already been noted. Then this "_]`esus" is
born of VIRGIN water, the "Spirit (feminine) moving
upon the face of the water," and the Holy Breath "Added
to" it. The latter is the masculine of the God-Head. "He
breathed into his nostrils, etc." We have now traced "him"
up to the age of THIRTY. What is his first public act?
"He" comes to "John" for baptism. Who,`or what is john?
When you yere about twelve years of age did not peculiar
pains seize you about the Ioins and along the limbs? Well
this is "John" or the watery substance in the body forcing
its way through the avenues occupied by it. The "Camel's
hair" is to significant for comment. "Make 'his' paths
straight" is full of meaning. Now learn this astounding
lesson. If' the child, upon reaching the age of puberty.
had only preserved ALL these life germs within himself,
not suifering himself to be betrayed into any sex excite-
ment, either by himself or the opposite sex, until he reached
the age of thirty, these germs would not be present in
the "water," and he would have been another Christ. You
naturally ask, "What then' would become of these germs?"
They would ASCEND the spinal column to their rightful
12 ESOTERIC MASONRY
home, the Penial Gland, the HEART of the brain, or, as
physicians would say, the Atrophied Eye. That it is the
atrophied eye of the spiritual man will appear presently.
And why this atrophied, or hardened condition? From
lack of use. From this place comes "Jesus" at the age
of THIRTY for baptism, and to. keep the "Passovex-."
Notice this number THIRTY, it is three times ten, the
trinity of man, Physical, Psychic, and Spiritual, and the
number "Ten" was used by the ancients to express spiritual
perfection. After this you have ';his" three years of public
ministry. Now as you add these three years to the former:
thirty years, you have your thirty-three degrees 'of
Masonry, or' art of building. It is now pertinent that we
thoroughly analyze the rite of the Passoover. I shall riot
quote the entire chapter here, but get your bibles and read
the entire chapter (twelfth) ~oi Exodus, giving it your
undivided attention, but especially the eleventh verse, for
it is full of symbolism. and the "Haste" mentioned means
much. -The "Israelites" are symbolical of the germs within-
us that have the mark of~ incontinence MISSING, while'
the Egyptian (darl<ness)". .symbolize ithose impregnated
with the desires, emotions and passions ofthe He Phren,
or lower mind. -
Pharaoh is used as a symbol to represent
the will-of -the lower mind. ~The many plagues visited.
upon Pharaoh are symbolical of the many alllictions that
are visited upon the physical man (of which the lower mind
hascharge), for ~his`indulgence in physical' propensities.:
Pharaoh refuses -to let the children 'of "Israel" go until
the slaying of the first born. FIRST BORN, remember
these. two words. What' is implied by these two words?
Not only the slaying of all' your EXOTERIC ideas `drawn
from -and founded upon the symbol and substituting there-
for the thing symbolized (for there is a vast difference
between the symbol and the thing symbolized), but if
means the slaying of your. FIRST ~
BORN PSYCHO4
PHYSICAL GERM. -When you -destroy the images which
you have created from your exoteric knowledge, there will'
ESOTERIC MASONRY ~13
;____ _¢i 1 -_l-
~
be "Mourning throughout the land (body)," for it means
a surrender of absolutely ALL the lower self. Even when
you get the consent of Pharaoh, the will of the lower mind,
there will come the temptation to pursue and again sub-
jugate the "Israe1ites." But let me warn you with all
possible fervor, TUR°N NOT BACK AT YOUR PERIL,
FOR IT MEANS SNVIFT AND CERTAIN DEATH TO
THE PHYSICAL MAN. Forget not the fate of "Pharaoh."
By reference to a former page you will discover the
twelve "Men" found in the body together with "Jesus" the
mystic thirteenth. Now "Jesus" says to two of "his"
'fdisciples," the nervous man and the lymphatic man. "GO
to -Jerusalem and in a certain street you will find an ass
TIED-bring him." NVe have seen that the word "_]`eru~
salem" means the body or temple. But where is the street?
Let John answer, in the last chapter of Revelation. "And
He shewed me a pure river of VVATER OF LIFE. clear
as CRYSTAL, proceeding OUT of the throne of God and
of the Lamb. In the MIDST of the street of IT, and on
either side of the river, was there the-TREE OF LIFE,
which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded HER fruit
every frnonth; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing
of the nations. And there shall be no more curse." The
expended semen from the average man is a cloudy, thick,
whitish substance. What is the matter? The curse is on
the LIFE. At the proper time we shall see what is the
cause of this condition. The PURE river of water of life
spoken of is the purified "Euphrates" or stream of life,
and is as Clear as Crystal. You may say that this is con-
trary to- experience, but the writer KNOWS from "having
made proficiency." "The throne of God and of the Lamb."
The Spirit and Holy Breath. "In the MIDST of the street
of IT." inthe MIDST of the street of what? jerusalem,
or the body. Ah, then, the street is in the Midst of the
body. "And on either side of the river, was there the
T.REE OF LIFE." On either side of what river? Pison.
Plainly, the right and' left testicles of man and the right
14 Eso'rERIc.MAsoNRy
and left ovary of woman. "Which bare twelve manner of
fruit," Each "Man" in the body is nourished and sus-
tained, and he has one germ born each month. "And
yielded HER fruit every 'month." We have seen the
iniiuence of the Moon on these germs, and is not this lumi-
nary commonly referred to as HER? "And the leaves of
the tree were for the healing of the nations." The germs,
now fostered and cared for, jealously guarded from the
emotions, desires and passions of the Iiesh, are for the
healing of the germs which we have been guilty in slay-
ing. "And there shall be no morecurse." Literally, there
shall be no more of the ACCURSED FUNCTION, as John
calls the sex relation on the physical plane. Now we have
the street located which was referred to by the Great
Master when He said, "Go bring the ass, you will find it
tied with a halter." Is not each male child born into the
world born "Tied P" In other words, there is a small cord
or cable extending from the end and just underneath this
organ in a backward direction, "About its NECK, as it
were." Where did "Jesus" first come before entering
"Jerusalem ?" Bethpage. VVhat'does this_word mean?
House of figs. 'What symbol did the ancients employ to
represent the womb? A FIG. Simple is it not? Now
listen with all your being. W'hen you came to your first
sex relation did you not "first meet with RESISTAN§E,'
and afterwards being admitted ?" And did you not rupture
this small cord or cable? And did not BLOOD How? And
was not BLOOD sprinkled "Upon the lintels of the
'DOOR`?" Plainly, the FIRST BORN psycho-physical
germ was kept until this age. You will better understand
the character of MARY MAGDALENE. How old were
you when you slew your first born germ? THIRTY? I
trow not, possibly not yet out of your "Teens." And yet
you call yourself a Mason. Do you not see that all you
possess is an empty form? Or, to quote from the Book
we profess to reverence, "Have a FORM of godliness, but
deny the POWER thereof." "/Vhen I see the BLOOD I
ESOTERIC MASONRY 15
will pass over you." Literally, when I see the blood I will
pass you over from the He Phren (lower mind) to the
"Iesous" or higher mind. You will now recall the HASTE
mentioned in Exodus. and you cannot help but see why
it is' so imperative. Do you not catch a glimpse of the
meaning in the "Tyler`s" lesson? Why did you not lead
such' a life? You answer, and correctly, too. "That you
were not taught." But you know now, what are
you going
to do about it? VS/'hile at the "Passover" "]esus" makes it
plain to "his" descip1es" that one of them should betray
°'him," and practically names judas Iscariot. This name
means, "]udas,"-Ruling, and"Iscariot"-A man of Kerioth.
Kerioth--A group of villages. That the truth might be
hid from the vandalism of those who would destroy it, it
is most cleverly hidden by symbol. Then in this name you
have this meaning, a ruling force in the male sex' organ that
expels the life force, the word "Kerioth" or cluster of
villages, being a symbol of a cluster of psycho-physical
germs.. It is said that after the betrayal that "_Iud$ went
out and hanged himself." Does not this organ assume this
posture after the sex relation? And does not judas "Carry
the BAG?" \/Ve are told that after supper "he" took water
and a towel and washed "his" "discip1ess'
"
feet, and in the
thirteenth chapter of the gospel by John and fifteenth verse,
"he" says, "For I have given you an example, that ye
SHOULD do as I have done to you." I submit, can a
more imperative or positive statement be made than, "That
ye SHOULD do." etc.? Yet the church does not practice
the rite today. V\/'hy? Because, intuitively they know that
it has no reference whatever to the physical feet and are
at a loss to explain just what it does mean, hence they pass
it by as they do many other of His enigmatical sayings.
\Vhen "he" comes to Peter (which word means "Rock")
this disciple says to "him," "Dost thou wash my feet?"
Mark the answer. "Jesus" sayeth unto him, "What I do
thou knowest not now. BUT THOU SHALT KNOW'
HEREAFTER." But Peter answered, "Thou shalt never
16 ESOTERIC MASONRY
wash my feet." Mark the answer. "IF I 'WASH THEE
NOT, THOU HAST NO PART WYITH ME." Then this
"disciple" desired a general ablution. But, MARK THE
ANSWER, "He that is washed needeth not save to wash
his FEET, but is clean EVERY WHIT." No one is foolish
enough to insist that he has bathed himself because he has
washed his feet, yet the Great Master plainly says that if
a man has his feet washed he is "Every whit clean." "What
can he mean? Simply this. Ve have seen that the word
"Jesus" means "Ictus" or "F ish." It also means FEET.
The several translations of the word are these. Ictus,
Pices, Fish, Feet. Men may not know why they do so.
but even in the common almanacs that are given away you
will find the "Sign" PICES at the FEET represented by
two FISH, masculine and feminine. The 'meaning must
be apparent to you now. If man has his "Fish" (psycho-
physical germs, FEET) washed, is he not clean? Can you
explain this utterance on any other basis? This is "First
making the fountain pure and it will send forth a clear
stream." Again, those who know will tell you that there
is a pronounced amount of saline or salty, substance in the
semen. Do you not better understand the words of the
Great Master when he says, "But if the SALT hath lost
its savor, wherewith shall it be salted?" I am going on
.now to "his" trial and -subsequent crucifixion, leaving you
to study this gospel by John under the "Light" already
given. SEE TO IT THAT THOU DOST "MAKE
PROFICIENCY." _
-'
Before going further I want to make plain the terms
used in this discussion. Wherever you find the term "Great
Master" I refer to the Man of Gallilee, who lived, walked
and taught among men. When I`refer to Jesus as the
psycho-physical germ, it is thus: "'he." -
VVe are told~ that "he" was arrested. lVl'lIC1'l means that
having come to this relation at the age 'of thirty, the He
Phren. or lower mind, againf seeks to assert itself. We are
told by john that "he'? was taken FIRST to Annas
ESOTERIC MASONRY .17
(Gracious) Father-in-law to Caiaphas, the high priest. Is
not the Father gracious in sending "His Only Begotten Son
(the psycho-physical germ, the product of the Spirit and
the Holy Breath)" into the (physical) world for our salva-
tion? But who is Cephas, or Caiphas? The former word,
"Cepl1as." means "stone" and the latter means "Depres-
sion." Does not the "Bag" form a depression in which are
found the stones This struggle seems to have lasted all
night, for, the Record says, "That when morning came they
led 'him' to Pi1ate." 'What does this word "Pilate" mean?
"Armed with a javelin." /Vhat does "Pilate" do with
"him?" Sends "him" to Herod. Literally the He Rod.
Who was his father. Antpater. /Vhat does this word
mean? Against father, and is not this organ against the
Father? Now do not confuse these terms. Vhile Herod
is literally the He Rod, "Pilate" is a symbol of the He Phren,
or lower mind, armed with the javelin, while Judas is the
force that expels the semen. More about this javelin anon.
What does "Herod" do with "hirn." "His men of war spit
upon 'him,' put a purple robe upon 'him,' plat a crown of
thorns and put it on 'his' head." The "Men of war" is a
symbol used to represent the hand, for the ancients in-
variably used the hand as a symbol of war. Is not the hand
the member used in the practice of masturbation? Spit
upon "him," is too significant to need further explanation.
A purple robe. The one who continuously and persistently
practices this habit comes in time to wear a "Purple robe."
Plainly. not only are the outward -marks visible, such as a
deep purple under the eyes, at the ends of the fingers and
at the lower edge of the temple. but their AURA is a dark
bloody purple. A crown of thorns. Where is a crown
worn? On the head. My God, was crown ever more
thorny than the one worn by him, who, through the secret
practice of this pernicious habit, undermines his health,
wrecks his reason and ends his days in a maniac's cell?
The question will not down. "Pilate (the He Phren
armed)" must settle it. He tries every artii-ice that human
18 ESOTERIC MASONRY
ingenuity can devise to evade the question, but it must be
settled. And I say, that just such a crisis will arrive in
your life when you come to see the "Light," your He
Phren, or lower mind, will surrender the psycho-physical
germs to "The lusts of the flesh," or, like "Pilate," it will
say, "I will have nothing to do with (the death) of this
just 'Man,' see ye to it." And this brings me to remark,
that there are three ways by which men may dispose of
this life force, all of which are discussed and plainly set
forth in the Record. By physical contact in the sex rela-
tion, by masturbation, and by -_-
but wait, we shall see.
Plainly, the question is just this, shall "Pilate" or the lower
mind, surrender the "_lave1in," with which he is armed, to
become an avenue through which to crucify "him," or shall
'he refuse. The "Pilate" of the Great Master, for these
names are symbols used to represent some part of the man,
ABSOLUTELY REFUSED. Do you not see how the
church in her ignorance, has habitually and persistenly
slandered the He Phren of the very man they profess to
love; and, instead of "Pilate" being the miserable, cringing,
fawning sychophant they have persistently declared him to
be, he is in fact the very antipodes? But "he" must be
crucified, for to use "his" own words, "To this end was
I born into the wor1d." I/Vho will do it.. The "Multitude
cried out, 'his' blood be on us and on our children." Now
if we can discover just who or what is meant by this "mul-
titude" we shall discover the "ones" guilty of the crucifixion.
We have said that "Pilate" was a symbol of the He Phren,
or lower mind. This is true, but only to this extent.
"Pilate" represents that faculty of the lower mind governing
the sex organs, for he is a
"
'Governor under Caesar," the
word "Caesar" being a symbol used to represent the Reason
on the lower plane. But is this the ONLY passion of
man? Assuredly not. Hate, Malice, jealousy, Anger,
Lying, Stealing, Murder, etc., etc., are all passions of the
He Phren, and this is the "multitude" that cry out for the
life of this purified psycho-physical germ, for they know
ESOTERIC MASONRY
~
19
.l;i.;
that it means death of their reign in the body. "So they
led 'him' away to be crucified (crossiiied)." They End a
man. "Simon of Cyrene" and compel him to bear the cross.
Simon is an extract from "Simeon" meaning "One who
hears," and Cyrene traced back to its root meaning is,
Hebrew, "Koresh (sun;. . Ancient Arabic, "Ghrenna
(light)" and the ancient Egyptian. "Phrah (an afulgence
of light)." So then we have the Father, who is the Sun,
the light, and elfulgence of light, "hearing" the cry of the
psycho-physical germ for deliverance, and this can only
be accomplished by "jesus" (the germ) going down into
the kingdom of the 'I-Ie Phren and coming out with the
MARK MISSING. This going down of the germ into this
kingdom is "his" descent into "Hell" or Chaos, and leading
"Captivity captive." What is in captivity? The "Israel-
ites." Their meaning has been delined. V/'here is "he"
crossiiieci? In Golgotha. or place of the SKULL. just
where this germ crosses into the Penial Gland there is a
cross formed by the avenue that supplies the brain with
life and the avenue that supplies this gland with life. Here
is the point at which the genn will have its most terrific
struggle, for the current of life flowing to the brain bur-
dened with itsthoughts of carnal :things MUST BE
REVERSED. But, you say, this would result in the
destruction of the brain. Not so. For, the Great Architect
has provided "a more excellent way," viz.: one leading out
of this gland to the brain. Hence under this order of things
the brain, or home of He Phren, would only receive
thoughts and impressions that had iirst received the stamp
and approval of the "Iesous" or higher mind. Here "jesus"
meets "his" death OF the cross. I know that the church
insists on calling it the death ON the cross, but let us see
which is right. Phil. 2-8. I hope you will read and study
the whole chapter.) "And being found in fashion as a man,
he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even
the death OF the cross." I know that what I am saying
is heterodox, but you must disabuse your minds of a
20 ESOTERIC MASONRY
l_
"Personal" God, Christ, etc., as commonly accepted. in
order to get this esoteric meaning. None of you are ignor-
ant, I presume, as to how thoroughbred strains of stock
are produced and preserved by a system of "crossing" the
breeds. But, if you turn this stock out and let them run
wild for a few years, the "Cross" will die out and they will
revert back to the original strain. So, the Great Master
was "Obedient unto the death OF the cross;" that is the
cross of the He Phren died out for want of sustenance, and
this is the death OF the cross. So Peter (rock, or cell
salts) denied 'him' three times before the COCK crew,
once to the masculine (masturbation), and twice to the
feminine, his own feminine, or intuitive self, and the femi-
nine in the flesh. This word "denied" has a double mean-
ing here. I may deny you a drink of water. This is the
sense in which "Peter" denies his own intuitive self. Then
I may deny a
thing to be true which I have absolute proof
is true. This is the sense he denied to the physical woman,
"and the COCK crew." It must be plain to you now why
it is dark in the North, and it will forever remain so until
you cease to crucify "him," The Record tells us, that the
"ENTRANCE of THY word giveth 'Light."' /Vhat is
this magic word which Masonry has lost? Ah, that is the
question. And before going further I tell you that you
will never know this word of words until you "Have made
proficiency" and "Won" your way into the Sanctum sanc-
torum, or Penial Gland. For, this word IS ALI/VAYS
VVRITTEN, NEVER PRONOUNCED. "To him that
overcometh (wins) will I give to eat of the HIDDEN
manna, and will give him a WHITE STONE, and IN
THE STONE (Penial Gland, Philosopher's stone) a N ENV
name I/VRITTEN, which NO man knoweth, saving he that
receiveth it." Rev. 2:17. So, when you shall have initiated
a sufficient number of germs the WORD will dawn on your
"Iesous" or higher mind, but not until then. The scope of
this work is too limited to follow "jesus" further at this
time, besides I am writing under orders and dare not trans-
ESOTERIC MASONRY 21
gress, for, in order that you may "Make proficiency" there
is rmuch left for you to work out.
_
Mosss.
This word means "saved from wa.ter." `/Vhat is it that
is saved from water? The psycho-physical germ, or "Jesus"
which are the "Stones" of the temple. The whole book of
Exodus is not the history of a. people, as commonly sup-
posed, but the terrific struggle of one man for MASTER-
SHIP. Couched in words and symbols that tax the patience
and test the mind of man, is cleverly hidden the deep
mystic truths of the kingdom. It is the story of one man's
failure and achievement until final victory crowns his eEort.
I remark here that the burial of Moses becomes much less
a puzzle when you thoroughly understand the book of
Exodus. It means the desire bo_dy buried, just where, "No
man knoweth." But its death carries with it the death of
all desires, passions and emotions of the He Phren. For,
having passed through the. Red Sea (the blood), and
crossed the burning sands of the desert (the passions), it
emerges purified, clarined and~ CRYSTALIZED, and is
literally passed over from the lower to the higher plane
of life. The word "Pharaoh" is used as a symbol of the
V`ill on the plane of the He Phren. His "Daughter" is a
symbol representing the feminine side of the He Phren,
while "His sister which stood APAR OFF, to wit what
should be done to him, or with him" is a symbol of the
"Iesous" or higher mind. Of course the "Sister" referred
to, is' the sister of "Moses." I am
quoting now from the
second chapter of Exodus. The eleventh verse of 'this
chapter teaches you that the He Phren, or lower -mind, had
evolved to such an extent that it clearly saw the folly of
seeking permanent happiness on the lower plane. The
struggle between the Hebrew and the Egyptian is a symbol
used to represent the struggle that occurs between the
lower and higher mind when man is tempted to sin. Be
Z2 ESOTERIC MASONRY
_
,.___.l;1
it known that many "terrors" beset the way of that one who
"Vfou1d make proficiency." This will explain the thirteenth
and fourteenth verses. "Moses," or the saved psycho-
physical germ, now flees to the land of "Strife," for this
is the meaning of the word "Midian." You see there is
work for this germ and the strife immediately begins. Here
"he" meets the seven daughters of "Reuel." The prefix
"Reu" means "friend" and the suiiix "El" means "A tall
reed burning with desire." "A broken REED will he not
despise, and the smoking flax he will not quench." The
seven "daughters" are the seven Chakras, or ganglionic
centers of the body. The "Shepherds" referred to are the
desires, emotions and passions of the lower man, while the
"water" is a sy-mbol of the life force. The "Shepherds"
would fain drive away the seven "Chakras" from the fount
of life. but Moses, this ONE' germ saved from the water,
stands up for what "he" intuitively knows to be right. Let
it be understood that one germ preserved and saved is
enough to start with, but FIVE are needed before you can
begin the RESURRECTION of the slain ones. You see
the "Fellowship" that exists between them is of such a
complex nature that "five points" of contact are necessary,
that is, the five senses must be restored. Such is the
supremacy of these saved germs over the "Unregenerate/'
"That one shall chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand
to flight." I remember of reading in the scriptures language
something like this, "By faith I can run through a troop
and leap over a wall." Let us see. The sign Aries is in
the head and is represented by the tribe of Gad. This
word "Gad" means "A troop." The "wa1l" is the dividing
line between the He Phren and the Iesous. Then this
s_aved psycho-physical germ can run through a troop of
germs belonging to the He Phren, and leap over the wall
to its own home. Do you not understand the words better
now, Ephesians 2:13-14? The word "Christ jesus" occurs
in the thirteenth verse and we have said that there was a.
vast difference between the words "]`esus," "jesus Christ"
ESOTERIC MASONRY 23
and "Christ Jesus." Let us see. JESUS being the psycho-
physical germ is present in every man. This same germ
being preserved from all the lusts of the Hesh and baptised
in jordan (the water in the spinal column), becomes "jesus
Christ(ed)" or, this germ may be said to have had its
'°Christening." \/'hC1'1 ascended to the Penial Gland it
becomes "Christ jesus" and is now the Christ(ed) or
Christ(ened) Jesus. I quote here the verses referred to:
'°But now, in Christ jesus ye who sometimes were far oi?
are made nigh by the BLOOD of Christ." Remember that
the word "Ephesians" means "Boundary of blood." "For
'He` is our peace, who hath made BOTH one, and hath
broken down the MIDDLE V.-LL of partition." Plainly,
this saved and perfected germ, breaks down the wall that
separates the He Phren from the Iesous and makes it pos-
sible for the "Israelites" and "Gentiles" to become one, or,
the germs of both the lower and higher minds to become
united. Remember that ONE germ with the MARK OF
INCONTINENCE MISSING, is enough to start with.
"Behold how great a matter a little FIRE kind1eth." The
germs are the ones "/Vho have not received the mark of
the BEAST (the He Phren) in their FOREHEAD,"
spoken of by the Greet Seer of Revelation. This word
"Forehead" is significant, for it may recall to your mind a
circumstance connected therewith. "Moses'
"
first reward
for this," his first eifort, was the daughter of Reuel, whosé
name was "Zipporah," feminine of "Zippor," which means
"A little bird." Please dismiss from your minds for all
time that we are in any sense discussing people, we are
talking about THINGS. Remember that the thing sym-
bolized is greater than the symbol. This "Bird" is the
HAMSA of ancient literature, which means "That Silvery
spark within the brain, a bright silvery glow emanating
from the soul: _it is not the soul, but the halo which
surrounds it," 'as beautifully told 'by Bulwer Lytton.
Therefore, Reuel, the force which primarily animates the
masculine organ, surrenders to "Moses" the feminine of
24 ESOTERIC MASONRY
the He Phren. Now there is a multiplying of this force
just as soon as we have successfully transmitted one germ.
Do notconfound _this multiplying with the "raising" of
the slain germs, for this "multiplying" is carried on by
those saved from water, "afterwards those which are 'his`
at 'his' coming." Hence from the union of "Moses" and
"Zipporah" comes "Gershom," which means "driven out."
You see, the emotions, passions and desires are driven out of
the kingdom of the I-Ie Phren. The first statement of the
twenty-third verse of this chapter is very weighty. I will
not quote it, read it and COMMIT TO MEMORY. For,
I have to tell you, that if you will persist in keeping these
germs within you, the time will come when, "It will come
to pass that in the PROCESS OF TIME, the King of
Egypt (darkness, the He Phren) will die." One more
word concerning the maturity of these germs. Your first
one will be longer than thirteen days from birth to maturity,
and so will your second, for each one matures one sign
later each time, but your FIFTH germ will be born
thirteen Clays earlier than your first one. In other words
the moon gains thirteen days in the time elapsed from the
birth of your first germ. Some months the moon will gain
two days, in others three days, but in each and every case
the total gained in five months is thirteen days. These
numbers are significant to those who are familiar with the
death, burial and resurrection of Hiram Abiff. »
Did you notice in reading that "Reuel" gave Moses his
daughter, yet in the next chapter Moses' Father-in-law is
called "]ethro ?" The word "Reue1" has been explained,
the word "Jethro" means "Excellence" You see "Reuel,"
plainly the masculine organ, becomes a thing of "excel-
lence" when it refuses to longer become the avenue through
which the life forces are "/Vasted with riotous living."
This work will not permit my following "Moses" through'
the entire book of "Exodus," but I am 'engaged on an
entire review of the bible. _Iust when this work will issue
from the press it is impossible to intelligently forecast at
ESOTERIC MAQSONRY 25
the present. Suiiice it to say, that when the work is pub-
lished it will not be hard to find under the title, "An
Esoteric's View of The Scripture." The following note is
appended, that, should the reader so desire he "may work
out his own salvation with fear and trembling."
GENESIS-The beginnings.
The beginnings of what? Vhen God, or the Uncaused
Cause, begun to invest this infinitesimal part of space with
a Solar System and people it with life. Life? 'What is it?
"In the beginning was the \/ORD, and THE word was
with God, and THE XV ORD /VAS GOD." Life, then, is
the uttered thought of the Uncaused Cause, animated by
the active principle that sustains the fountain head, mani-
festing itself in multifarious forms. But what is this active
principle? It is the UNKNOVVN AND UNKNONVABLE.
self-sufficient, all-wise and indissoluble. 'We call it God,
which we will be forever approaching but never approxi-
mating.
EXODUS-An expelling, a going out.
An expelling of what? All the animal propensities and
inclinations carried over by man from the lower planes,
from which, under the guidance of this All~W`ise Intelli-
gence, he has evolved.
LEVITICUS-Adhesion, a sticking together, or more
literally, a principle that attracts and holds its kind. Hence
in this book is emphasized the necessity of uniting ALL
the life forces for one mighty and supreme effort. NVhat
for? Let the next 'book answer.
`
NUMBERS-A collection possible of enumeration.
A collection of what? All the trials, struggles and
battles to which man is subjected are
cleverly set forth in
this book through the symbolism of battles, wars, etc.
DEUTERONOMY-A revision, a summing up, a second
statement or enactment.
The "Moses," or candidate, comes now to his "Iesous,"
26 Esorsmc MAsoNRv
or higher mind, hence another law. Do you not better
understand the words of Paul when he says, "VV e are no
longer under the law (meaning the first law), but have
become a law unto ourselves." Plainly it is meant that we
are no longer under the law of PHYSICAL EVOLUTION.
The fact that nothing higher than man has evolved upon
this earth is proof that the end of the physical law is recahed
in the perfect physical man. Vl1at then? The develop-
ment and unfolding, or evolution, of the higher mind.
How? Esoteric Masonry holds the key. Read the seventh
chapter of Romans, laying special emphasis on the twenty-
third verse. _
SOLOMON_
This word is much disputed, but the best light to be
found is in tracing it back to its root found in the ancient
Syriac and means "Peaceful light." The prefix, "Sol," is
undisputed. Literally, the deep hidden meaning of the
word is "The light of the sun." The sun's rays are divided
into three divisions. The first rayis exercised during the
spring months and has the power of germinating and
starting vegetation. The second ray exercises its influence
during the summer months and has the power of developing
and unfolding, while the third ray has a hardening or
ripening influence. So the birth of the lpsycho-physical
germ`s influence is to awaken and inspire, then to unfold
and develop, and finally to deliver the perfected fruit to
the Great Master in the sanctum sanctorum.
The history of the twelve tribes of "Israe1" with their
"Kings" is but another figure used to represent the rise'
and progress of man. Remem-ber that there are twelve
signs of the Zodiac. What I shall say now may seem to
be a digression, but follow it closely to the end and may-
hap you shall discover the FULL meaning of the word
"Solomon." W'e begin the circle with the sign Libra. This
represents the tribe of Reuben. VV'hat does fthe word
"Reuben" mean? One who sees the light, or sun. The
ESOTERIC MASONRY 27
34-1 -
chief characteristics of people born when 'the sun' is in the
sign Libra, is perception, foresight, intuitiveness. You will
see that there is a. plan, and that it was no accident,
or mere caprice, of man that these signs and names follow
in their NATURAL order. Next comes Scorpio. This
signrepresents Simeon, or Simon. /Vhat does the word
"Simon" mean? That hears, obeys. And what trait of
character is most prominent in Scorpio people? Obedience.
and the demanding of obedience when in authority.
Next, Sagittarius, representing the tribe of Levi. The word
'°Levi" means adhesion, a sticking together. /Vhat char-
acterizes Sagittarius people? Fidelity, especially to the
marriage vow. Next, Capricorn, which represents Iudah.
This word means praise, especially praising the Deity.
People born under this sign are unable to find words to
express their highest ideal of praise, so that sometimes
they all but sulfer in their attempt Ito do so. Next,
Aquarius, representing Dan. This word means judgment,
or God is my judge, or he that judges. People born under
this sign are intuitively quick in judgment, their first
imimpressions usually being correct in placing people. Next
Pices, representing Naphtali. This word means wrestling,
correctly representing the nervous, wrestling nature of
those born under this sign. Next, Aries, representing Gad.
This word means armed, or prepared, expressing the nature
of Aries people in that they are alert, watchful. Next,
Taurus, representing Asher. This word means blessed, or
happy. Taurus people are the naturally self-satisfied people
of the earth. Next, Gem-ini, representing Issachar, which
means reward. Gemini people seldom fail of reward owing
to their persistent effort to attain it. Next, Cancer, repre-
senting Zebulum. This means dwelling, or habitation.
How people born under this sign do love their home. I
may insert here for your study this much, the sign of Cancer
is represented in the Zodiac by the Crab, and this creature
carries its home on its back; wherever it stops, all it has
to do is to withdraw itself into its shell and it is at home.
28 ESOTERIC MASONRY
Think over the other signs. Next, Leo, representing Joseph,
which means added to. And now I must pause and go
deeply into this sign for it is full of significance. You will
find, by reference to the twenty-ninth chapter of Genesis,
that it is stated, "And afterwards she bare a daughter, and
called her name Dinah." This word means luminous, per-
fect. She was the SEVENTH child born in the eleventh
sign of the Zodiac. Now the figure seven is mystically
used throughout the scriptures. It is the perfect SPIRIT-
UAL number. But the spirit must have a body through
which to -manifest, hence a physical body is ADDED TO
joseph. Read Isa. II :3. Be sure to read Gen. 22:24. The
question grows deeper. Next, Virgo, representing Benja-
min, meaning Son of my right hand. Read Gen. 35:11-21.
The word "Rachel" means ewe, or lamb, the sign of Aries,
and now you have the lion (Leo) "lying down with the
lamb (Aries)." I/Vhat are the chief characteristics of Leo?
They are DOUBLE. First a strong love nature and pow-
erful sex proclivities. Second a deep metaphysical meaning
attaches to this word, as expressed in passages already
cited and which are found throughout the scriptures. Do
not fail to read the Hfth verse of the fifth chapter of Revela-
tion. Now to interpret the last scripture cited. The word
"Beth-el" means "I-Iouse, or place, of a tall reed burning
with desire." The word "Eprath" means "fruitfu1." The
word "Edar" means "Flock-tower (the masculine organ)."
But read the twenty-first verse very carefully and you will
see that Jacob, or Israel, as he was afterwards called, did'
not even hesitate here, but "journeyed BEYOND" this
place. The word "Reuben," as we have seen, means, "One
who sees the sun, or lightl" The word "Bil-hah" means'
"modesty." Hence you have the two united, and I may
remark that one who is very`|wise is characterized by
modesty, as witnesseth the Great Master. The tendency'
of true knowledge is to fm-ake one more humble and modest(
I have quoted somewhat concerning what I am now going
to say, but that there may be no misunderstanding, I am'
ESOTERIC MASONRY 29
going to quote more fully. In Psalms QI :I 3, we read, "Thou
shalt -tread upon the Lion and the adder (serpent); the
younglion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet
(fish)." Now read and STUDY the entire eleventh chapter
of the prophecy of Isiah. What does it all mean? Simply
this: That out of the union of Leo (the life force) with
the Lamb (Aries, the ewe lamb) is born Virgo (the
VIRGIN), Benjamin, the son of my right hand. VVhere
is the sign Leo? In the heart, governing the BLOOD.
Where is the sign Aries? In the head. Plainly then, it
is the cessation of sexual activity on the physical plane,
and a uniting of the life force (Leo) with the "Iesous," or
higher nmind, in the Penial Gland, which org:-in is in
ARIES, or the head. As already noted, |Virgo means
"Virgin." This "Virgin" is the product of these two forces
and is the PSYCHO-PHYSICAL germ with the mark of
incontinence MISSING. Is it not plain?
Now Solomon aked for "¢Visdom," and as a reward was
given to understand all of these mysteries. The temple he
built was not only a perfect Human body, but a perfect
Psychic and Spiritual Body. VVe are to give our undivided
attention to "Keeping this body under," conquering the
emotions, passions and desires of the He Phren, or lower
mind. And we do this by preserving from any taint what-
soever these germs. Never mind the Psychic and Spiritual
body. "Seek first the KINGDOM of Heaven, and all these
SHALL be added unto you." The trouble with mankind
is they are continualy seeking something that lies outside
so to speak, instead of beginning at the fountain head.
Kingdom implies a possession of place. Now the place or
kingdom of the soul and spirit is within the physical body,
and when you have, through the process already indicated,
built the "temple" you need not give yourself any concern
about the "coming of the Queen of Sheba (seven)," for
the promise is sure and certain and LIGHT will dawn. Do
not forget the double significance of Leo, Dinah and
Joseph, both masculine and feminine. In the deepest
30 ESOTERIC MASONRY
recesses of man he is intuitively F EMINIE, but SI-IE will
not manifest herself until the "Temple" is prepared."
I have gi-ven you enough for you to take your bi-bles
and read the account of the 'building of the "tempIe" and
see that each and every article that enters into its construc-
tion is only a symbol of some part of the human organism.
I give you one illustration to help you in your study. The
right and left pillars of the ternplel (jachim and Boaz,
meaning "strength" and "cheerfu1ness") are the right and
left legs of the body. The "three walls of hewn stone with
the one upright column of Cedar wood" are the three walls,
or linings, of the stomach, with that part of the spinal
column reaching from' the pelvis up to where the first ribs
unite. VVith patience and perseverance you may now unfold
the riddle, thereby "making proficiency" for the next degree.
V/hat do you mean by saying "Free born and of lawful
age, etc. ??' In that you were not born a slave and are by
law twenty-one years of age? /Vitness how far you miss
the mark.-'The vast majority of children born into the
world are fruit of accident, the parents not knowing with
certainty just when conception took place. I may say, and-
what a sad commentary upon our twentieth century civili-
zation, that many,, many of them are the fruit of LUST.
Now just so far as your parents were actuated and con-
trolled by the desires, emotions and passions of the Flesh
when you were conceived, just so far are you not FREE
born, but are just so much a slave to these same things.
In other words, just so far as the psycho-physical germ
was impregnated with "The things of the flesh" and re-
sulted in a physical body for your habitation, just so far
are you not "FREE FROM THE LAW OF SIN AND
DEATH," What do you 'mean by "Lawful age?" Twenty-
one years old? VVitness how far you miss the mark. We
find that Solomon was four years preparing the material
for the "Temple" before the actual construction began. So
also it is four years from the time you preserve your first
psycho-physical gern until you have ONE MATURING
ESOTERIC MASONRY 31
__
;;i.
ALL THE TIME, or a continual supply for the builders.
Do you suppose that the germ from which you sprang, or
your children sprang, was four years old? And had it been
carefully kept from the contaminating emotions, desires
and passions of the flesh? "STRAIGHT is the path and
narrow is the gate, and FEl/V there be that go in thereatf'
May the Great Architect help you make proficiency in
Geometry. .
HIRAM, King of Tyre.
The word traced to its last analysis means "Hiram"-
"noble." "Abi&"'-from -'Ab-Father." and "Tyre-rock."
The word "Hiram-" comes from the ancient Hebrew
"Huram," meaning "Higl1born." By tracing the suffix of
his second name through the labyrinth of ancient meanings
we find that it means "Leo," or lion. Putting the meanings
all together we have. "A npble, highborn, Father Lion."
Does not Leo and the Lamb "Lie down together P" At once
you see the words "Hiram AbiE" are a symbol used to rep-
resent the life force in the pro-creative organs. Now this
"Person" furnishes Solomon with the materials with which
to build the "Temple," casting some of them °'In the mud
BEYGND Jordan." As has been explained, the river
Jordan is used as a symbol to represent the spinal column.
Also remember that in its journey the psycho~physical germ
comes to "Bethabara." which means "House of the ford."
In other words. this is the place where thisgerm crosses
the jordan and becomes material for "Hiram," who puts it
into shape and sends it on to Solomon. '/Vhat do you mean
by sying that YOU are a
FREE»mason? You don't know.
It means one who, having "Made proficiency" as an Entered
Apprentice (the entered psycho-physical germ into the
body), learned how to TYLE, and been "Raised" to the
sublime degree of the Master Mason. How vainly you
imagined yourself such when you 'received your third
degree. As a matter of fact if the signs and symbols of
Masonry had no deep hidden Esoteric meaning, they would
32 ESOTERIC MASONRY
,_.§____
be too puerile for the serious attention of a thinking man,
then how far must they be beneath the dignity of a God,
had he not enwrapped them in meaning as deep as the
depths of space and as high as He himself, and securely
hidden the truth within them from vulgar and profane gaze.
I have said that we have to do with three worlds, Physical,
Psychic and Spiritual. Let us see. Here in this physical
world in the "Temple" of the flesh. we are, so to speak.
Entered Apprentices in the great universe of life. When
we shall have learned this lesson and "Made proficiency" in
creating a perfect physical temple, we shall have conquered
"The last enemy," which is death (physical) and have
passed on to the Psychic realm, or Paradise. Here we con-
cern ourselves with the soul. And as the physical body is
"The outer court" of the grand temple of the universe of
life, so Paradise, or the home of the soul, is the "Inner
court," and it is here that we
learn to "Tyle" on the "Plan
of the ages." Having "Made prohciency" we are Raised
to the Spiritual realm, or the sacred sanctum-sanctoruni,
where, under the direction 'of the Great Temple Builder, we
are made Master Masons. "And these are they, who have
come up out of great trials and tribulations, and washed
their robes (their auras) and made them V/'HITE in the
blood of the LAMB (the blood of the Penial Gland in Aries.
the head, the lamb)." Does not your horizon begin to
broaden? Gan you not better understand the Psalmist when
he says, "O, Lord, I am fearfully and wonderfully made?"
'Does not your reverence for the Book of Books depen as its
utterances unfold on your awakened consciousness? Do
you not begin to see what a "Prodiga1 Son" you have been?
Above all, do you not see how weak and even foolish your
signs and symbols are, were they not clothed in this deep
hidden and mystic meaning? Learn the lesson and office
of Hiram Abiff.
The trouble is, that men have tried to begin away out
at the periphery of things, as it were, and reason back to
self. They begin at the VVRONG END. They are striving
ESOTERIC MASONRY 33
i" "i'
for spiritual perfection with an imperfect body. "Seek first
the KINGDOM." What is meant by the word "Kingdom ?"
The kingdom of Great Britain is not the people. The king-
dom is described by its _material bounds and possessions.
The people are inhabitants of the KINGDOM. So the body
is the KINGDOM of the soul and spirit which are its inhab-
itants. Men have been searching through space for a king-
dom that has no existence save in their own overwrought
imagination. Can any language be plainer than that of the
Great Master, "Seek ye FIRST the KINGDOM OF GOD
and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added
unto you"? The words "Kingdom of God" suggests a
dwelling place, hence it is evident that the body becomes
the dwelling place for His most Holy Spirit. Passages,
almost without number, could be cited supporting this posi-
tion, but it_ must be evident to anyone who has made the
least proficiency and you may look up the references in the
bible relating to the body as the Temple, or dwelling place,
of God. Observe that the language is "Unto YOU." Not
anything added to your temporal possessions, but added
unto your own personal Ego, aded unto YOU. I know that
men have been wont to interpret this entire chapter (Matt.
6) from a literal standpoint, but his whole speech is figura-
tive and symbolical, as I could show you did space permit,
and I had authority from "those who know" to do so. But
if all were written out plainly, where would be the oppor-
tunity for your own study and chance to "make pro-
ficiency?" Before going further I am going to answer a
question that has doubtless formed in your minds ere this,
viz.: "I wonder who taught him all this knowledge, and
where?" I shall tell you the bare facts just as they are.
Pondering in my own mind what could be the hidden mean-
ing of the dark sayings of scripture (for intuitively I felt
that its every utterance was true if we only had the key),
in response to my supreme desire for light, there begun to
dawn on my understanding the story of "Jesus" as I have
partially given to you. (I say partially, for it is necessary
34 ESOTERIC MASONRY
lgiq-i
ior you to do something). Then came the thought that the
key to it all lay hidden in the signs and symbols of
Masonry. I begun to meditate upon this, and the .more
I pondered and thought in the SILENCE, the "brighter"
the light shone, until even as I write these pages it keeps
flooding my being ONE THOUGHT AT A TIME,'so
that I do not know from one minute to the next what I shall
write. As near as I can describe it to you is this: Some
powerful presence, or influence, seems to overshadow me
when writing, and out of the unseen transfers to my brain
what "It" would have me write. I was for a short time
in Los Angeles, California, U. S. A., but removed to the
heart of the Sierras. I am now writing away up in the
mountains, one hundred and Eve miles from a town of any
importance, and twenty-three miles from a post-office,
seventy-three ~m-iles to the nearest railroad point. As God
is my judge, I have never in my life had an instructor IN
THE FLESH regarding these things. I have never as
yet, seen a- "Mahatma," "Adept" or "Master" of occult
sciences, though I am deeply interested in these things. I
know absolutely nothing about hypnotism, lmesmerism,
mediumship, either clairvoyant or clairaudient, and have
not the least psychic power of which I am aware. I only
know that there seizes me a supreme desire to write, and,
yielding to the inliuence, there pours into my mind the
things I write. The reader will pardon this personal refer-
ence, but it seemed pertinent to insert it here owing to the
question at the head of this sketch. I was born in the State
of Missouri, on the nth day of September, I872, coming
under the sign Virgo. I mention this that I may draw a
lesson from it. You who are familiar with the Zodiac will
notice that this sign is exactly OPPOSITE the sign Pisces:
What then is the center of our Zodiac, or solar system?
You tell me, and correctly so, the sun. _
Now, to use a figure,
suppose a person begun at the outer edge of the sign Pisces
and walked toward the sun, and another would begin on
the outer edge of the sign Virgo and walk toward the sun,
ESOTERIC MASONRY 35
do you not see they would be moving toward the same
point, though moving in OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS? So
in the great world of truth, the Great Architect is the center
of all knowledge, wisdom and understanding, shedding
forth his rays (of Solar Fluid) as the physical sun sheds
light, and we approach it under the influence governing
the sign under which we were born. This will explain the
antagonism and differences of opinion among men, because
they are approaching the same source from different direc-
tions. Let us see if this is true to the Record. Read Paul's
letter to the Romans, Chap. 7, from the sixth verse to the
end of the chapter. You may interpret the chapter under
the light given, however I must offer a short comment on
the tenth and eleventh verses. "And the commandment
which was ordained to life, I FOUND TO BE UNTO
DEATH. For sin, taking occasion by the commandment,
deceived me. and by it slew me." Does Paul mean that a
commandment from the Great Architect, which was "or-
dained unto life," was the very opposite for which He
ordained it? Absolutely YES. If we may discover "TI-IE
COMMANDMENT" referred to, the question will unravel
itself. Let us see. 'In the first chapter of Genesis, verse
twenty-eight, we find "The commandment,
"
"Be fruitful,
and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it." Here
is a law ordained unto the begetting of physical life. Men
have heard it and cunningly took the wide latitude of not
only begetting children, but using the same means to satisfy
the LIISTFUL PASSIONS of the flesh, and the law which
was ordained unto life becomes a law of death, by reason
of its prolonged and continued abuse. This explains the
eleventh verse does it not? I/Vas not Paul correct? Some-
thing within the depths of your being answers, Yes. This
will aid you in understanding the remaining part of the
chapter. The antagonism spoken of will become apparent
to you as you prosecute your studies. Again, read Paul's
letter to the Corinthians (his first letter), the twelfth
chapter, beginning with the fourteenth verse. Here Paul
36 ESOTERIC MASONRY
uses the physical body to show how we "Are all members
of Christ(ed)" using its several members to symbolize the
members of the Grand Man of The Heavens. Again he
preaches against the sin of antagonism. You have met
people in your life whom you have felt you had always
known, and was at a loss to explain it to yourself. The
simple truth was and is, that you were developing along the
same ray of the Divine Logos and were moving at the
same rate of vibration. Again you have met people toward
whom you felt an antipathy, though they had never wronged
you in any way. What was the matter? You were travel-
ing in opposite directions towards the same point, or, in
other words, you were developing along different rays of
the Divine Logos, hence an antagonism of feeling. If you
both had only understood this law you would have been
quite good friends, don't you think? Why? Because the
opposite of antagonism is harmony or love. Then is not
Paul logical when he follows this chapter with that match-
less thirteenth chapter, beginning, "Though I speak with
the tongues of men and angels, etc."? The trouble with
:men they have been content to read the commandment in
Genesis concluding with the word, "Earth," and forgetting
the last three words, "AND SUBDUE IT." _When you
understand that the word "Earth" here is used as a symbol
to represent the body, the meaning becomes perfectly clear,
and did you not say at one time that your purpose was "To
learn to SUBDUE, etc."? It is now necessary for me to go
somewhat into astrology to further elucidate the art of
temple building. And I do not mean this modern dwaddle
by which unscrupulous and scheming practitioners pi1fer`a
trusting and coniiding public. But I mean that ancient and
exact science which has GEOMETRY as a base, and which
the Ancient Prophets and Patriarchs so well understood as
to be able to forecast with accuracy coming events on the
earth.
The sign of the Zodiac, or Grand Man of the Heavens,
are as follows: Aries, the head; Taurus; the neck; Gemini,
ESOTERIC MASONRY 32
the arms and shoulders; Cancer, the breasts; Leo, the
heart; Virgo, the stomach and bowels; Libra, the kidneys
and loins and "sm-all" of the back; Scorpio, the genitals;
Sagittarius, the thighs; Capricorn, the knees; Aquarius, the
calves of the legs, and Pisces, the feet. Moveable and
Cardinal signs are Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn.
The word "Cardinal" means "That upon which a thing
HINGES," By reference to another page you will find the
chief characteristics of people under these signs. And I
ask you, does not your destiny HINGE upon your alertness
and watchfulness, your love of the home (the body) keeping
it with jealous care, supplying it with the untained psychi-
physical germs, your keenness of perception, foresight and
intuition; and your praise and service faithfully rendered
to the Author of all that is? Fixed signs are: Taurus, Leo,
Scorpio and Aquarius. Taurus people are naturally happy
and self-satisfied. This tendency to self-satisfaction, if
turned downward is destructive and becomes fixed as a trait
of character, hence the reference to "A stiff-NECKED and
perverse generation." Leo, with its double significance.
has within it the possibility of becoming the great among
great, or the worst with which the earth is cursed. Hence
a tendency to fixedness. You will better understand the
Psalmist when he says, "Oh, God my HEART is Fixed."
Scorpio people rendering obedience unto authority inflex-
ibly and unyieldingly demand obedience to those under
them. Fixedness. Aquarius people with their natural
ability to form estimates of character, etc., seldom change
them, unless circumstances change to warrant them in
cloing so. Fixedness. Common signs are, Gemini, Virgo,
Sagittarius and Pisces. The characteristics of people horn
under these signs are, in a general way, common to all
mankind, and manifest themselves in the individual as they
are cultivated and encouraged. These signs represent the
Earth (Virgo), Air (Gemini), Fire (Sagittarius) and VVater
(Pisces), the four elements entering into the composition
of the body, hence you see the sense in which they are
38 ESOTERIC MASONRY
referred to as com-mon signs, for these things are common
to all mankind, that is, they are present in each physica$
body. The fruitful signs are, Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces,
or the three YVATERY signs of the Zodiac. Plainly these
are the signs in which the psycho-physical germs are born
that have the power of reproduction within themselves.
These are "The wives of Solomon." Barren signs are
Gemini, Leo and Virgo. These are the signs in which are
born the FEMINIE psycho-physical germs that have NOT
the power of reproduction in themselves. These germs
were "The concubines of Solomon." The double bodied
signs are, Gemini, Pisces and the first half of Sagittarius.
These are the signs in which the MASCULINE psycho-
physical germs are born that have not the power of repro-
duction within themselves. These are the "Eunuchs of
Solomon." It will be noticed that the sign Pisces is given
as a common, fruitful and double bodied sign. Let us see
if it is not so. Pisces is represented by the two fish
(masculine and feminine). The "fish" are symbolical of
the spermatazoa in the semen, or the psycho-physical germ.
Are they not common to all men and are they not a source
of fruitfulness? And are they not double bodied in the
sense that they are both masculine and feminine? And
are they not also double bodied in the far deeper sense of
being developed either UPWARD or DOWNNVARD? The
"Captains" of Solomon are the germs which are born under
FIXED signs. His "Wives," those born under fruitful
sings, are the "Trestle board" upon which are "Drawn the
'designs for the building of the temple," or, plainly, they
are the germs upon which the higher -mind impresses its
image of thought, for as the wax of the cylinder of a phono-
graph is susceptible of receiving the impression from the
human voice, so these germs are of such a WATERY and
delicate construction they receive the image of thought.
The "Concubines" are the germs that supply the physical
body with its power to think and reason, or, to be plainer,
they supply the material that is utilized in this process,
ESOTERIC MASONRY 39
_il,,
while the "Eunuchs" are "The hewers of wood and drawers
of water," both the concubine and Eunuch drawing their
supply from the fruits of the common signs, or the Earth,
Air, Fire and VVater. Is it not plain? And does not the
ancient science of Astrology take on a different meaning
to you ? But again. Let us see how thoroughly the ancients
understood the science of Astrology and Geometry. Vit-
ness the Pyramids of Cheops in Egypt. Do they not teach
us a lesson? Are not Astronomy, Astrology, Geometry,
Trigonometry and Parallax all symboled in these incom-
parable monuments? But what is their lesson? By refer-
ence to another page you will find the twelve "men" enu-
merated in the body. It is also a scientific and lwell
demonstrated fact, that twelve minerals, or cell salts, enter
into the composition of the body. These are the twelve
foundations mentioned by John, and when normally devel-
oped actually resemble in color the stones by which he
symbolizes them. Now let us count the lines of Masonry
in the Pyramids. `/Vill wonders never cease? They are
twelve. But what do they mean? Let us see. I begin
with the bottom line of masonry and find it to be the longest
of them all, this represents the water which enters into the
composition of my body, it being most in quantity present.
I find the next line much shorter. This represents the lime
in my body, which enters into the composition of my bones,
next in quantity. And so on I go through the entire list of
Magnesia, Iron Silicon, etc., until I come to the last line,
or Apex, of the Pyramid which I find to be the shortest
of them all. This represents the Brain, or that peculiar
phosphate present in that organ. But is this all? No. It
means that these cell salts have a proper place in the body,
or house, and in the exact and correct proportion. You will
better understand the words of the Great Master, "Blessed
is every man which hath his HOUSE in order." For when
he has "His HOUSE IN ORDER," -he has discovered the
meaning of the Pyramids, and has luilt on Geometric plans
that are absolutely correct, and the1.`it becomes evident to
40 ESOTERIC MASONRY
_xr-¢»~1
you that THE PYRAMIDS EQUAL THE SPHINX, or,
in other words, a perfectly constructed body becomes the
IMPERISHABLE MAN. The Sphinx is silent. So is that
one who, "Having made proficiency" has passed on to
Mastership, save to divulge so much as shall awaken your
inner self and roughly sketch the "Path." "ARISE, -follow
your guide (Iseous) and fear NO evil." I say '°roughly
sketch the path." Why? Because there are those who will
perhaps laugh these lines to scorn, and we are especially
commanded "Not to cast our peals before swine." It is
meet here, to enquire as to how this germ is received into
the body. How were you received into the physical lodge?
Let no one suppose that the apparent mixture of the
°'Vork" in this conglomerate form is from any lack of
knowledge of the same. IT IS INTENTIONAL, that any-
one of uncircumcised eye, or lips, into whose hands this
work may fall will be none the wiser for having read the
same. "The point of a sharp instrument" or the masculine
organ. It will be seen how this organ, in a symbolical
sense, is "Presented to the naked LEFT breast," that is,
the physical heart, or organ of the BLOOD, which, as
Moses says, "Is the life thereof." How 'this organ, when
abused and made to answer to "The lusts of the flesh," does
become "An instrument of torture." Its further progress
through the body has been already traced, and its general
direction, considered from the point of view of the compass
as related to man, are significant. Do you know what
direction the sphinx faces? Look it up. It may lead to
the "Light" We pride ourselves on our much learning
and knowledge, but it is possible that these ancients knew
some things after all, and we are not so "/Vise" as we have
fondly dreamed. Let us see if the Great Apostle Paul
understood this matter. Read the last chapter of his letter
to the Romans. Now who were the "Romans?" Inhab-
itants, or subjects, of Rome? Yes, in a physical sense, but
not by any means in a symbolical sense, which is the sense
in which Paul uses the term. ¢Vhat then does he mean?
ESOTERIC MASONRY 41
The Romans are used as a symbol to represent that' part of
the body that is built and supplied by the "Eunuch" and
"Concubines." Now Corinth was under "Roman" juris-
diction when Paul wrote. This "city" (for bear in mind
that "his" language is all figurative) was situated on an
isthmus extending from the "m-ain land" and had "two"
ports, Cenchrea, on the Saronic Gulf, and Lechaeurn. on
the gulf of Lapanto, one, seven and one-half miles and one
one and one-half miles away. These two numbers added
together give a _total of nine. Remember that this number
is significant. This city is a figure used to represent the
masculine organ. Bear in mind this fact, that the Great
Architect has left absolutely "No stone unturned" to tell
this story in every conceivable manner. The two "Ports"
are the right and left testicles of the man, any physician
will tell you. or you may know from observation, that the
left testicle is ever fartherest from the organ in question.
This is true in a physical sense, but far truer in an esoteric
sense. This was in the province of "Acacia," which means
"Place of the shittiin wood." //'hat are the properties of
this wood? It is a very hard wood, will grow in a "desert"
place but thrives best in good, rich, well watered soil. Its
fruit is borne in a "Pod" and the tree exudes a red-brownish
substance. Now witness the story. The m-asculine organ
is the "isthmus" that extends from the "main land" or the
body. The hard substance of the testicles is the "Shittim
wood," the "Pod" is a symbol of the spermatazoa. But it
exudes a red-brown substance. True. To understand this
you must know something of the law of vibration. Man in
his original state stood'in an "envelope, or aura, of color.
Next to his body was the golden yellow, then the blue,
orange, green and rose-pink. in the order named. But when
he transgressed the law ("Trans" means across, and "Gradi"
to step), when he stepped across the law (the one that Paul
says he found to be unto death), his whole aura was
changed, and next to him shown the flaming red. Now you
have the "Angel stationed at the EAST gate, with a'
42 ESOTERIC MASONRY
FLAMING sword turning every way." By this law of
vibration I may be able to tell you the character of your
thoughts, remember, I do not say that I will tell you just
the exact words you are thinking, but the CHARACTER
of your thoughts. The Great Master used this law with
the woman at the well in Samaria. If I see the golden
yellow (but this is seldom indeed, for it is the highest rate
of vibration on this globe), then I know that your thoughts
concern love. And I do not mean that weakly, sickly sen-
timentality that expresses itself in maudlin sentiment; but
I mean a love that has its origin with God. its oflice in the
human heart (Penial Gland) and its furiillment in the
human life, a perfect physical body, a love that embodies
the universe in its sweep. \`hen I see the blue, I know
that your thoughts are commendable. They concern the
beautiful, flowers, music, landscapes, poetry, sculpture,
paintings, etc. 'When I see the orange, I know that your
thoughts are concerning physical health, for the orange ray
of the physical sun is the ray and color governing these
things. /'_hCI'1 I see green, and this has two divisions, the
pea green and the bottle green. If I see the former color,
I know that your thoughts are concerning finance, or money
matters. If I see the red, and this has two general divisions.
each one again divided into two. The lirst general division
is the angry red. Latent it is of a deep wine color, excited
it is a fiery red. The bull is made angry by a red cloth.
The bull is the sign of Taurus, an earth sign. The lirst
letter of the Hebrew alphabet is "Aleph," meaning "Ox," or
strength. Think it over. The next general division is the
sex red. Latent it is scarlet, excited it is crimson. Does
this not explain Isaiah when he says, "Though your sins be
as SCARLET, they shall be as white as snow; though they
be red like CRIMSON, they shall be as wool?" Look this
first chapter up and read it very carefully, He opens the
eighteenth verse by saying, "Come now, and let us
REASON 'together said the Lord, etc." I appeal to your
reason if this is not reasoning, however improbable it may
ESOTERIC MASONRY 43
seem to you at first reading.- But where is your recl-brown
you have been speaking about? Let us see. I ask a painter
to come and paint my house a red-brown color, and' I see
him mixing a red and a green substance together and I ask
why he does so. And he answers that by mixing these two
colors he will get a red-brown. Now what two subjects
mostly occupy the minds of men? Sex and finance. One
character of thought Hashes red and the other liashes green
in the aura, and the mixture of thought produces the red-
brown. Men may not know why they print their money on
GREEN paper, but they do. I turn to the Proverbs of
Solomon and I read in the seventh chapter, beginning with
the 'twenty-First verse, "I/Vith her much fair speech she
caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she
forced him. He goeth after her straightway as an OX
goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the
stocks; Till a dart strike through his liver." Ah, what
color is the liver? Red-brown. I have to tell you, all
physicians and scientists to the contrary, that the normal
color of the liver is a GOLDEN YELLOI/V. But you
answer, this is contrary to all experience. And I answer
you by telling you, so is the perfect man. As you preserve
these psycho-physical germs within your body, you_r liver
will gradually take on a golden hue. It has been said, 'fThat
the most fearful ignorance to overcome, is that which denies
without INVESTIGATION." Prove these words by
"Living the life" and see if my words are not true. It must
be clear to you now that of which the "Shittim wood" is a
symbol. I say prove these words. What does the Record
say? Let us read the third chapter of the prophet Malachi.
I shall not quote it here but it is imperative that you read
it before going further. He tells you in the first verse that
He will send his messenger to prepare the way. Here again
is "john" preceding "Jesus" through the avenues of the
body. In the second verse the prophet inquires, "Who may
abide, who shall stand? He is like a refiners' fire and like
fu-llers' sope." Is not the process through which the psycho-
44 ESOTERIC MASONRY
-
;.;;¢i
physical germ passes such an ordeal? He tells you in the
latter part of the third why this is so. Read the eighth and
ninth verses very carefully and you will see how you have
been robbing God by stealing these germs for the satis-
fying of the flesh." The ninth verse will explain why the
liver is not a Golden Yellow. But in the tenth verse He
extends to you a gracious invitation, asking you to PROVE
these things. Is it not worth the struggle? The eleventh
verse tells you how He will help you to win. Now go on
and read the next chapter. The first verse deals with tl1e
dissolution of the physical body by those who will not hear.
But the second and third verses give you a glimpse of some
of the fruits of victory. Give special attention to the fifth
verse of this chapter, remembering that the word "Elijah"
means "My God is "Jehovah" and was born in "Naphtali,"
which means "Struggled for." Is this not worth struggling
for? One word more concerning the "Acacia." Have you
never heard of the Acacias Records" of the ancients. V/hat
is meant by them? Simply this: This force in you is your
own recording angel, faithfully preserving an exact image
of your each and every innermost thought, and constitutes
the psychic body that you shall inhabit after physical dis-
solution. Do you not see that by jealously guarding your
psycho-physical germs from all the desires, emotions and
passions of the Hesh, and the thoughts to which these things
give rise, that the Psychic body builds itself? For it does
build it out of the material you send it, whether good or
bad. In other words, your Psychic body is made up of
your own individual Acaciac Record, and becomes your
paradise or hell, just as you make it. Do you not better
understand the words of 'Solomon when he says, "As a man
thinketh in his heart (Pineal Gland, or heart of the brain)
so is he?" 'Do you not see that the lirst and stupendous
task that confronts you is the absolute mastery of your
thought? Or, as Paul says, "Bringing every thought under
SUBJECTION to the WILL of God?" Surely you cannot
he so blind as not to see the fact that your thought determ-
ESOTERIC MASONRY 45
ines your destiny. "He that looketh after worrian to LUST
after her in his heart, hath committed the act ALREADY,"
says the Great Master, meaning that the thought has gone
to 'record in the Acacia Tree and will confront him in the
Psychic world. Not only this but each and every act and
deed with their INFLUENCE will confront him. It is
indeed a fearful thing to live. Perhaps you will now better
understand the inscription above the gates at Delphi, "Know
Thyseli." Now who is this Paul? Before his "Conversion"
he was known as Saul. Now what does the word "Saul"
mean? "Asked for." Saul was the son of Kish. `/Vhat
does the word "Kish" mean? "A bow." The word "Paul"
means "small." The letter "P," "Phe" in the ancient
Hebrew, m-eans "mouth," or "voice." The letter "A" means
"Aleph," Ox or strength. The letter "U" means the "Urn."
The letter "L," "Lamed," means "Beater,°' smbolized by
an ox-goad or whip. Then the word "Paul" becomes "The
strength of an unseen force beating in the urn
producing'
a small voice." I might trace out and show you how the
word "Saul" is the voice on the physical plane. A hint is
suiiicient. Remember that Saul is the son of Kish, and the
word "Kish" means "A bow." Are not the vocal cords a
bow? Plainly Paul is the Iesous, or higher mind, what
Saul is to the He Phren, or lower mind. Before going
further, I want to make it plain that I believe that the
people named in the scriptures LIVED AND MOVED
AND HAD THEIR BEING IN THE EARTH, but their
whole history, actions, words and deeds only symbolize the
deep hidden truths of the kingdom. Hence in this work
we are not dealing with the people, per se, but with what
their name and life symbolize. 'We have seen that the
word "Paul" means a "small voice." How many letters
did Paul write? Thirteen, including the book of Hebrews,
though his authorship of the last named book is disputed,
we shall see anon. How many "men" did we discover in
the body? Thirteen, including "_Iesus," the mystic
thirteenth. Is it not plain to you that each one of the
46 ESOTERIC MASONRY
11-
"Epistles" of "Paul" is a message, separate and distinct,
to each of the thirteen men in the body? But to be explicit.
The kingdom of Rome is only a figure to represent the
water in the body. The physical kingdom being the largest
then extant andcovering almost the known world with its
possessions. Next in order comes the letters to the Corin-
thians, which, we have seen, is the center of activity of the
life force on the higher, or lower, plane just as we deter-
mine by our Vi/'ILL and THOUGHT. Next, Galatians.
This word, traced to its root meaning, means "Bitter." It
describes the iirst struggles of the awakened man to obtain
his freedom from the law of sin. Read the entire letter
with this thought and end in view and see how minutely
this warfare is described. Give special attention to the
first part of the fifth chapter, and then witness how he opens
the sixth, addressing himself to all the "Men" of the body,
or rather to all the different psycho-physical germs, Eunics,
Concubines, etc. Next, Ephesians, and this word means
"Boundary of blood," that is the boundary where the life
force is extracted from the blood- and becomes semen in
the body. Does this not explain his utterance to the Corin-
thians, in his first letter, fifteenth chapter and thirty-second
verse? Read it now before going further. VVhat possible
advantage is there in any physical man lighting with physi-
cal beasts towards his resurrection? Absolutely none.
Hence his meaning is clearly this: At this boundary line,
the birth of each new psycho-physical germ is met and
conquered by the "Iesous," or higher mind, and this meeting
and conquering the desires, emotions and passions of the
lower mind is his "Fighting with the beasts at Ephesus."
Did you notice in reading the verse he asks, "What is the
advantage of all this IF THE DEAD RISE NOT?" The
dead what? Bodies of men? No. The psycho-physical
germs that have been slain by the He Phren. (And here
I want to remark that a little further along we will deal
with these slain germs in full; I mention this that you m-ay
keep this pasage in mind for reference). Philippians comes
ESOTERIC MASONRY 47
.
next. This word means, in its iinalanalysis, "Fond, or
lover, of horses." The horse (with a human face) is used
to represent the sign Sagittarius and this sign embraces
the thighs. The meaning is too apparent to demand com-
ment. Read the letter, laying special emphasis upon the
third chapter, keeping in mind that he is discussing the
progress of a germ. Next, Colossians, from Colossae,
meaning "I-Inge." As the germ progresses the hugeness of
the task before it begins to dawn on the understanding, and
this whole letter ought to be committed to memory. Next,
Thessalonians (first and second letters). The best light
that we can get upon the origin and meaning of this word
is from the ancient Sanskrit, meaning "Many." The germs
have multiplied until they are becoming a host. Read both
letters with the Very closest attention. They mean much.
Next, his two letters to Timothy. The Word "Timothy"
means "Honoring God." The germs have so multiplied and
increased in knowledge that, like "Timothy," they delight
to honor God. Fail not, at your peril, to read these letters
with exceptional diligence. Next, Titus. Traced to its
origin this word'means, "_-Wenger." Here appears "The
Avenger of BLOGD." See to it that you commit to
memory this short but exceedingly important letter, remem-
bering that the word, "Crete" "growing," and the land of
the Cretians was full of rugged mountains, bnt many, many
luxuriant and fruitful valleys. All symbolical. Next,
Philemon. This word means "determined" (a determined
link between the higher and lower minds.) You must
read and closely study this one chapter. The words,
".-pphia" and "Archippus" have reference to the germs on
the physical plane that are not yet raised, the former being
feminine and the later masculine. The word "Epaphra.s,"
used at the close of the chapter, means "lovely," "hand-
some." Now we come to the disputed letter, the one to
the Hebrews. This is a letter addressed to the entire man
as a collection of PERFECT germs ready for their initia-
tion into the "Order of Melchizedek." But before they are
48- ESOTERIC MASONRY
_
intiated they are subjected to a rigid trial by faith. Read
the entire letter, but give special attention to the eleventh
chapter. Here Paul enumerates the many conquests of
faith, but you must keep in ~m-ind that the names used all
have a. symbolical meaning, many of which I have already
given you, but that you may "make proficiency" many are
left unsolved. I exhort you to give special attention to the
first and second verses of the next chapter. You have
doubtless heard many sermons preached from this text.
with various interpretations. The "Cloud of witnesses"
referred to are none other than the redeemed and purified
germs surrounding our
EGO. You 'have heard drinking.
lying, stealing, dancing, card playing, etc., referred to as
our several "Besetting sins." Thus one man`s besetting
sin being one thing, and another man`s something else. All
very wrong. These things referred to are "weights" that
hinder our progress towards perfection. But notice Paul's
language, "Lay aside every weight, and" mark you, "AND,"
And what? "THE sin that doth so easily beset US." VV ho
is the °'us"? All mankind. Then each one`s besetting sin
is the same is it not? What then is it? It is DOUBT, the
very opposite of faith, the subject which the Greater One
has just been discussing in the preceding chapter, and is
it not the thing "that so EASILY besets" ALL? This
letter, then becomes an address not OF the "Small voice"
but the "Small voice" from the source of all knowledge.
hence its being written in the "Third Person." This is the
final instruction for the candidate before his initiation into
the order before referred to. Now what does the word
"Melc`hizedek" mean? "KING OF RIGHTEOUSNESS."
In other words, the lodge of the "Great Masters." So our
candidate, having made proficiency, after the order of these
thirteen letters, passes on to MASTERSHIP. So you see
clearly? If not, reread it all, including the letters. holding
to the one thought, that your supremest desire is for "More
Light," and as sure as there is a "Great Master," it will
dawn upon your understanding. Keep in mind also that
ESOTERIC MASONRY 49
_l,_
the word "Hebrew" means "Dwellers on the other side of
the Euphrates," "Passed over." In other words, they are
the germs passed over to the higher mind, ready to be
".Raised." Above, we promised to deal more fully with
the slain germs. VVe turn now to the prophecy of ]ere-
miah, and read the entire thirty-first chapter. I shall not
interpret the entire chapter, for there is work for you to
do; and. lest the reader become weary of a continued refer-
ence to the "making of proficiency," I add; that upon this
ONE THING (as Paul says in his Philippian letter) hangs
your success as a candidate. Clearly, your ultimate success
depends upon the proficiency that you make ALONE. The
word "Ramah," used in the fifteenth verse, means "hight."
The meaning is clear, that when man awakes to the possi-
bilities within him, there is a wailing in the f'Hight,"
meaning the He Phren, that has usurped and so long occu-
pied the throne of the will. The word, "Rahe1" is inter-
preted by most scholars to mean the same as "Rachel.°` but
this is not the case. "Rachel/' as we have seen, means
"The Lamb," but the word "Rahel" means "The Nomb."
Hence "Rachel" means the "Lamb," while "Rahel" -means
the "womb" of "Rachel." Clearly this verse has reference
to the germs _slain by "The lust of the flesh." Bu~t read
the gracious promise held out in the sixteenth and seven-
teenth verses; And what follows this promise. The word
"Ephraim" Vhat does this word mean? "Double
fruited." In other words, it is the psycho-physical germ
capable of bearing fruit on the plane of the higher or lower
mind. Read the prayer that is offered by "Ephraim" in
the eighteenth verse. The very heart of the Great Architect
is moved by such repentance as that. Read the twenty-
iirst verse. The "fVaymarks" and "Highway" referred.to
are the seven centers of the body with the "Highway"
leading to the Penial Gland, the Heart of the Brain. _Read
carefully from the thirty-first to the thirty-fifth verses, The
thirty-fourth verse plainly tells us. that when _men shall
learn this way of the Lord, there will be no Methodists,
50 ESOTERIC MASONRY
1
Baptists, Presbyterians, etc., etc., telling us what to do or
how to live, but EACH man will have developed along his
OWN ray of the Divine Logos, and will so know the Lord,
for does not the next verse mention the SUN and the
ORDINAN-CES OF THE MOON? And what do these
two luminaries symbolize? The moon symbolizes the birth
of the psycho-physical germ, while the Sun symbolizes its
perfection. In the thirty-ninth verse you will find the
words, "Gareb" and. "Goath." They mean, "Scabby" and
"Heifer's pool," in the order given. The organs symbolized
are too apparent for comment, the first being masculine and
the latter feminine. And now in the fortieth verse we come
to the slain germs. The word "Kidron" means "Turbid"
and is used as a symbol representing the entire course of
the life force through the body touching the twelve "men"
thereof. The Tyropoean flows into it at the Pool of
Siloam, and the Hinnom joins it at En Rogel. "Tyropoean"
means "darkness" and the Pool of Siloam" means "sent."
Darkness is visited upon man for his misuse of these germs.
"Hinnom" means "Power to recover" while the word "En
Rogel" means "F ulers' Fountain." All three of these
streams unite in forming what is called the "Wady en Nar,"
which word translated means "li ire," and flow through Mar
Saba (perishing) to the Dead Sea, or Death. It is apparent
'to you now, how within each man there is "Hinnom" at
"'En Roge1." This will help to explain Isaiah`s reference
'to "Fullers' Sope." Here in this "Valley" lie buried the
psycho~physical germs that we have been guilty of slaying.
How shall they be "raised"? "Upon the five points," etc.,
which means that when we shall have succeeded in per-
fectly transmuting to the higher mind our five physical
senses, the sixth will dawn upon us and we san See(rship).
I leave you to make your own application. I have reserved
for the last the twenty-second verse. Study it closely.
_Dwell much on this question, especially the last word.
Then study thoroughly the last statement of the verse. As
you study, it will become clear to you that the "Woman"
ESOTERIC MASONRY 51
referred to is your own feminine, or intuitive, self, and this
is the woman that cannot reveal herself to you until you
have prepared the way. Do this and you will unveil your
own "Isis."
Now let us apply this key to the book of Jonah, the
stumbling block of many and the despair of the clergy.
"Jonah" means "A dove." "Amittai" means "true" and
"Nineveh" means "wayward." You see with this under-
standing the book at once unfolds itself. It is plain that the
Great Architect send_s His spirit' (the dove). which is
symbolized as the "son of Amittai" (TRUTH), to "Nine-
veh" (wayward), the He Phren. But as soon as the spirit
touches the will of man "He rises up to flee to Tarsus
(self'satisfying)" and goes by way of "]~oppa" (beauty),
the feminine. In other words, when the psycho-physical
germ is touched by the spirit of God it becomes a dove, a
messenger of good tidings, to the rest of the man, but when
it goes the usual way, it is just "Fleeing unto Tarsusff
The "Fish" that swallows him up is a symbol used to
represent the "Fish" satiated and impregnated with the
desires, passions and emotions of the lower self. The
"Gourd" spoken of is to teach him (the psycho-physical
germ) that he is not self-created, and that the Father will
brook absolutely no interference with any force that would
keep one of his earnest, sincere and repentant children from
the LIGHT. The rest of the book will become plain to you
as you study it with this light. You will see how very
materialistic the clergy is when they read this work.
Fearing their own support in a temporal way, they will
laugh at its utterances, the short-sighted ones doing their
best to keep it out of the hands of their parishoners. But,
"Our God will have them in derision" except "They repent
and do their FIRST WORK." Now let us apply our key
to the utterances of the Prophet Elijah. The word "Elijah"
means "]ehovah, alone, is God." If we follow the usual
course in dealing with his utterances in I Kings, 18th
chapter, we find nothing except as it may serve us for its
52 ESOTERIC MASONRY
historical value. 'Let us see what is underneath. Dismiss
from your minds that this chapter deals with people in any
save a symbolical sense, but deals with man. In other
words, it deals with' you. Now "Elijah" (God alone), came
to "Aham" (Father's Son). "And there was a sore famine
in 'Samaria' (watch tower)." "And 'Aham' called 'Obadiah'
(servant of God, * * *
for it was so, when ']ezebel'
(image of chastity) cut on' the prophets of the Lord." ~I
shall not quote further, but will give you the meaning of
the words used in this chapter, so that you may translate
it for yourself. I state here that the word "]ezebul" means
"Chastity" butthe Word "Jezebel" does not. "Israel"-
God fights, soldier of God; "Baalin"-Images of the God;
"Carmel"-Garden Land, fruitful field; "Baal"4Lord;
"]'acob"-Supplanter; "Abraham"-Father of a multitude:
"IsaacT'-Laughing; "Kishon"-Wending, in a wandering
manner; "_]ezereel"-God sows. Before taking up the
interpretation of this pasage I want to offer a further
comment on the word "]ezebel." I maintain that the word
is derived from the same root as "]ezer" (image) and
"Belia1*' (worthless). Read ]ohn's reference to "her"-in
Rev._.:20-23. Another thing I wish to call your attention
to, the translators have translated the word (and correctly)
"Baalim" in the nineteenth verse of this chapter, but with'-
out warrant have left off the suiiix "im" for the remaining
part thereof. The reason that I call your attention to this
is, viz.: the word "Baal" means "Lord," while the word
"Baalim" was the IMAGE OF THE LORD. If you study
this passage under this light you will discover that "Elijah"
is a symbol of the' spirit that shows itself unto "Aham," a
symbol of the psycho-physical germ, in °'Samaria." the
Penial Gland, or heart .of the brain. Refer often to the
above words 'WITH THEIR MEANING. The further
progress of the germ, after taken up by "Obadiah," a
sym-
bol used to represent the "Will" or the "Iesous," I leave
for you to'complete and shall concern ourselves with a
general interpretation of the chapter. -Ve have seen that
ESOTERI-C MASONRY _5~3
.1.
the word "Baalirn" means "Image of God." Do you not
see that men have persistently and continuously broken the
very first commandment by creating in their minds an
image of a personal God somewhere in the universe, .the
location of his headquarters they were never able to deter-
mine, forgetting, "That the Most High dwelleth not in
houses made with hands" but, according to the prophet
Isaiah (God is helper), Chap. 57:15, "I dwell in the high
and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and
humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to
revive the heart (Penial Gland) of the contrite ones." The
man tempted iu the flesh, whom- men knew as "Elijah,"
was such a master of esoteric law and forces, that he was
able to demonstrate to the physical senses that, which to
them (the physical senses), was miraculous. To the
physical sense these things are "Past finding out," but
to the MASTER they are simple. A formula in mathe-
matics would be simple to your physical sense of under-
standing! _Iust so is any given hidden force simple and
obedient to that one who has "made proficiency. "And
GREATER works than these shall Ye (the psycho-physical
germs) do; because, (notice the reason), I go unto my
Father (Spirit)," whose dwelling place is in the HEART
OF 'I`HE BRAIN. Again, quoting from the same authority,
who is the Great Master, "Did not I say ye are Gods?`f
An ancient, whom men- of later days have been wont to
class as a heathen philosopher, said, "Men carry a God
about with them every day and know it not," but looked at
from this point, how far wrong was this "Heathen ?" Men
have taught, believed and practiced the idea of a personal
God until it has been woven into the minds and thought of
men and become race concept. "How long, oh, Lord, how
long?" They do not see that they are
worshipping an
image of their own creation and withholding their praise
from the True God that "Hath his dwelling in man." What
frenzies men will sometimes work themselves into over
what they conceive to be the work of the Lord. Theyare
54 ESOTERIC MASONRY
worshipping "Baa1in" but not "Baal." The four water jars
spoken of by the prophet are the four elements in man.
earth, air, fire and water. These elements must all be filled
with 'psycho-physical germs that have passed through
"_]ordan," or water. _
We come now to deal with the Kings of Israel in a more
detailed manner. And here I note that it has been said
that "There is not a crime in the catalogue that is not
sanctioned, condoned and indulged in by these kings," and
I remark, that whoever made the statement was ABSO-
LUTELY RIGHT, if you acept the literal interpretation
of the book. But we shall see if the author of the above
statement was not condemning I-IIMSELF in his ignorance.
For, the state of development of the psycho-physical germs
in the brain and body determine man's reasoning power of
the He Phren, and exalts this power of reason above every-
thign else. This line of kings begins with Saul, son of
Kish. fVe have seen that the Word "Saul" means "Asked
for." Now what is it that was asked for? Knowledge.
Vi/ho asked for it? Adam and Eve. 'Who is "Adam" and
and "Eve?" Mark, I do not ask who X/VAS, but who IS.
etc. Adam and Eve are used to represent the He Phren.
the former being the masculine and the latter the feminine
side. These same divisions, under different symbols, obtain
with the "Iesous," hence you have the four divisions of man,
discovering the plan of the square. That the reader may
better understand our meaning, we shall here enter more
fully into an explanation. You, we presume, are familiar
with, the story of creation. their experience in the garden,
and subsequent fall, etc. ¢Vhen you understand that Adam
and Eve are symbols of the He Phren, and that the
"Garden" is the human body, and the "Tree of Knowl-
edge" is the wisdom of the "Iesous," you can readily see
how the former has transgressed the domain of the latter.
How was this transgression accomplished? Plainly it is.
this. Before man's transgression, he reproduced himself
by the power of the "Iesous" or higher mind, pure thinking.
ESOTERIC MASONRY 55
_»
on the higher plane, as "jesus" is the product of "joseph"
and "Mary." But the "Serpent" (He Phren) concluded to
try another way, viz.: the yielding to the sex passion on
the physical plane, so knowledge was increased to the He
Phren, and because of this the He Phren must be raised to
the level of the "Iesous." Hence the knowledge lost to
the "Iesous" must be redemed to the kingdom of the
'°Iesous" by the salvation of the He Phren. Man,_in his
original state, was without the sex organs in THEIR
PRESENT ST.-XTE. "Because thou has done this ((thing).
upon thy BELLY shalt thou go and eat dust all the days
of thy life." We have a right to assume that the "Serpent"
did not go "upon his belly" at one time. 'Where then was
it? In the head, properly exercising its O`/VN functions
for the physical body, until the fall (from the head to the
belly) into matter. Are we not safe in saying that the
vast majority of mankind bestow more thought, in a relative
way, upon this organ with the serpent than any other one
thing? Does this not help you to understand the language
of Paul, Phil. 3:18-19, when he says, "For many walk, of
whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping,
that they are enemies of the cross OF Christ: Whose end is
destruction, whose God is their BELLY, and whose glory
is in their shame, who mind earthly things?" 'lfhen the
procreative function of man "Fell" from the kingdom of the
"Iseous" to the kingdom of the He Phren, with all _its
concomitant desires, emotions and passions. For the
secret of creation, or the power to create, belongs to a
kingdom unstained and unsullied by any thought of evil._
Man reproduced his kind, before the transgression of the
He Phren, by the power of thought, after the transgression,
through the physical sex relation by the transmission of
"Jesus" in the act. Do you not see how this "Jesus" is
"The Lamb slain from the foundation of the world?" for
there was this provision in the Divine economy far back
of what men call Calvary. Do you not see how "He (Jesus)
is led as a lamb to the slaughter, but as a
sheep before her
56 ESOTERIC MA'SONRY
shearers is DUMB ?" So, then. the He Phren gets what
it asked' for but, like "_Ionah." it "Pays the fare thereof.f'7
One word more. Do you not see that when you arrive at
the age of puberty and suffer "Jesus" to follow "John" into
the "water" before the age of thirty, that you have
experienced YOUR OWN INDIVIDUAL FALL IN
EDEN (the body, or garden)? VVe come now to "Davicl."
This word means "Beloved" and is a symbol of the forces
of nature that result in'the birth of the psycho-physical
germ. The entire process, from its incipiency to its ultimate
birth. is a lengthy one when considered from the many
different phases through which it passes. That you may
betterlunderstand the law and be able to intelligently
interpret the first chapter of Matthew (the gift of Jehovah),
I' offer a short comment on the LAW. This Physical
universe is governed by physical law, and THIS law
governs the physical man with the He Phren, the planets
moving in one direction and the signs moving in the oppo-
site. This' is "The upper and nether millstone." It has
been said"'T hat the mills of the Gods grind slowly. but
they grind exceeding line." This is the law that Paul says
he f'Found to' be unto (physical) death," for, to the extent
that man abuses his life force "W`ith riotous living," to that
extent does he shorte_n his days. Do not forget the law,
"Honor thy Father (The Holy Breath) and thy mother
(The Spirit,)" for these are the parents of the psycho-
physical germ; that it may be well with thee, and thou
niayest LIVE LONG "upon the land which the Lord thy
God giveth thee." It follows as a natural sequence that if
a~ man honors these parents he cannot fail to honor his
earthly parents; Now, as there is a law governing the
physical man with the lower mind, so there is za law
governing the spiritual man with the higher mind, and it
is the discovery and faithful practice of this law that makes
us "Free from the law of sin and death." So then, to quote
the same author, "/Ve are no longer under the (physical)
law, but have become a law unto ourselves." Do you not
ESOTERIC MASONRY SZ
better understand the words, "If Christ (the Christ(ed)
psycho-physical germ) shall make you free (from the law)
ye shall be FREE INDEED?"
I give you now, in order, the names and their meaning
from Abraham to jesus Christ:
Abraham--Father of a multitude.
Isaac-Laughter.
'
jacob-He supplants.
Judah-Praise.
Phares-Breach.
Zara-Sunrising. _
Thamar--Palm Tree.
Esrom-Fortified.
Aram-Height.
Axnminadab-Bounteous people.
Naason--Enchanter.
Salmon-Clad.
Booz--Agile.
Rachab-Arrogance, pride, insolence.
Obed-¢Vorshipper, serving.
Ruth-Friend.
jesse-Jah is.
David-Beloved. -
Solomon-Light of the house.
Urias-_lah is my light.
Roboam-He increases the people.
Abia-Jah his father.
Asa-Physician.
_Iosaphat-Jah is judge.
_Ioram--Jah is exalted.
Ozias-Jah is my strength.
-
_Toatham-Jah is upright.
Achaz-Possessor.
Ezekias-Becoming stronger.
Manasses-VVho makes to forget.
.Amon--Builder.
58 ESOTERIC MASONRY
i
_Iosias--_Iah heals.
_Iechonias--Jah strengthens.
Salathiel-I have .asked him of God.
Zorobabel--Sown in Babylon.
Abihud-Father of majesty.
Eliakim-God raises.
Azor--Helper.
Sad'oc-just; righteous.
Achim-A cluster, gathering together.
Eliud-God is majesty.
Eleazar-'Whom God helps.
Matthan-Gift.
Joseph-Added to.
Mary-W'ater.
Jesus Christ-Savior.
It will now be easy for you to trace the genealogy of
"Jesus Christ" (the christed psycho-physical germ), keeping
the fact in mind that when you come to the word "Naason"
you come to the place where the He Phren (the tempter)
makes his appearance "In the pinnacle of the temple" and
if successful in tempting you, becomes "Booz(y)" and
results in "Rachab." But if, like the Great Master, you
are successful in withstanding the temptation, you become
"Obed" and- continue your course. Remember that the
"Spirit" is feminine and that the "Breath" is masculine,
the former "Mary" and the latter "]oseph." This may
seem a very lengthy way to arrive at the meaning and
significance of the word "David," but I trust you will get
the light. Admitting what he have said concerning "Saul"
and "David" does it not naturally follow that "jesus
Christ(ecl)" and "Solomon" are inseparable? The psycho-
physical germ (jesus Christed) being the agent through
which Solomon (the light of the temple) manifests itself.
You see now the sense in which "Jesus" is "The light of
the world." As has been stated, THE word is written in
the perfected psycho-physical germs in the Penial Gland,
ESOTERIC MASONRY 59
-.___
..__,i1__i
.1-1
and you will understand how "Thy word is a LAMP unto
my feet (fish)." "Solomon" progressed very well until he
reached "Naason" when he succumbed to the "Enchanter."
Read the account in 1 Kings, Chap. 11. For this the twelve
tribes (twelve men of the body) were taken from him, or
rather I should say, ten of them, for he was granted one,
that is, he was given Judah. In other words, he was sent
back to the beginning, "_ludas(h)" meaning praise. Is it
not true, looking at the question from this standpoint, that
the element of praise in m-an is inherent from the most
polished thought of the most learned scholar, to the most
crude idea of the man-eating cannibal, each and every race
and tribe of people having some kind of an idea of some-
thing greater than themselves? Read carefully the verse
in which it is stated that "I will take the kingdom from
thee and give it unto thy SERVANT." _-nd does not the
word "Obed°' follow the word "Rachab." and does not
"Obed" mean "serving"? "Obed," however, received but
ten "Tribes," while Solomon retained one. You naturally
ask, "Vl/'hat then became of the twelfth? This is "The Lost
tribe of Israel." But what is that? If you will read the
seventh chapter of Revelation you will lirxd your answer.
The spirit took an equal number (of,_psycho-physical
germs) from each of the twelve "Tribes" and sealed them
against the power of the He Phren. The seven seals
referred to is that portion of each of the seven "Chakras"
that is sealed up. /Ve read in Ephesians, 4:30, "And
grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are
SEALED unto the DAY OF REDEMPTION." Remem-
ber that the word "Ephesians" means
"Boundary of blood"
and these psycho-physical germs are sealed in these seven
centersof the 'body until the "Iesous" regains control of
the man, and are then released to assist in temple building.
Now read the fourteenth chapter of Revelation, from the
first to the sixth verse, and it will become plain to you
"How" no man could learn that song," and this number
60 ESOTERIC MASONRY
_l.;;_¢1
corresponds to the number that were sealed. Now if this
number were as perfect as _]`ohn describes them to be, what
need had they of redemption? Sim-ply this. When. man
"Clothed, and in his RIGHT mind (the Iesous)," shall have
so mastered "The things of the.flesh" as to be "found
WORTHY and well qualiiied" he shall have the help of
these germs that know not sin. This is the sense in which
these sealed germs are redeemed to the service of the
"Iesous."
~
- ~
After the reign of Saul, David and Solomon, the king-'
dom divided, there appear two line of kings. one ruling
over Iudah, and the other over Israel. The kings of _Iudah
follow in the order named:
Rehoboam--He increases the people.
Abijahm-_]'ah is father.
Asa-Physician.
_Iehosaphat-Jah is judge.
_Iehoram-Jah is exalted.
Ahaziah-Jah preserves.
Atahaliah-Jah is strong.
_Ioash-Jah bestows.
Amaziah-VVhom _lah strengthens.
Azariah-_lah helps.
_Iotham-Jah is perfect.
Ahaz--Jah is possessor.
Hezekiah-_Iah is strength. _
Now count their number. Thirteen' is it not? The
significance is too apparent for comment. You see from a
humble, sincere and earnest "Praise" comes an increase
of the people (the psycho-physical lgerms), and "fah"
becomes Father, Physician, judge, Helper, Exalts,
Strengthens, Bestows, Perfects and, finally, "Possesses in
His strength." This will help you to understand the words
of the Psalmist (I39:13), also Prov.- 8:22. Paul under-
stood this great mystery, as you will discover by reading
the tenth verse of the sixth chapter of his second letter
ESOTE~RI'C MASONRY '61
;.i;;
.1i,__ii
to the Corinthians. And, while- reading this chapter, lay
special emphasis upon the. sixteenth verse, for it will make
clear many things to you.
I now give you the names of the Kings of Israel in
order:
]eroboa;n-Struggler for the people.
Nadab-Noble.
Baasha-Bravery.
Blah-Oak, strength.
Zimri-Celebrated in song.
Omri-Servant of Jah.
Ahab-Father's son.
Ahaziah-_lah preserves.
Iehoram--Jah has exalted.
Jehu-Jah is he.
_Iehoahaz-Jah holds.
jehoash-]ah's gift.
_Ieroboah 2nd-Struggler for the people.
Vechariah--fVhom God remembers.
Shallum-Recompense.
`
Menahem-Comforter.
Pekaliah-Jah has opened his eyes.
Pekah-Open-eyed.
Hoshea-Safety.
`
You see how the psycho-physical germ progresses
through the "Ten men" or, kingdom of the He Phren,
until he reaches the stage of "Pekaliah" and ultimately
that of "Hoshea." In its struggle it comes in contact with
the "N icolaitanes" spoken of by _Tohn in Revelation. This
word means "Bad FISH." Its signiiicancewill not escape
your notice.
`
Now the Master builder was wont to retire to his sanc-
tum sanctorum at high twelve to draw designs upon his
trestle board. It was a season of this kind, as the temple
neared completion. that he was waylaid by those who
sought to wrest from him the secret word. He found it
62 ESOTERIC MASONRY
impossible to escape by way of the south gate, he flees to
the west gate, and then to the east gate, where he is slain.
You have doubtless observed by this time that the Senior
Warden of the physical lodge, whose seat is in the west, is
only a symbol of the .blood in the physical man. Remember
the location of the river Heddekel. The word warden
means keeper. You are familiar with the 'junior V/arden
and his place in the lodge. He is a symbol of the lower
bowels. Remember the location of the river Gihon. This
is the river that carries to Ethiopia, which word means
blackness, the refuse of the body. I leave you -to make
proficiency by seeking out the meaning of the other oliicers
of the lodge. Be well assured that each one has a symbol-
or counterpart in the physical man. or temple. Take heed
how you enter upon this sublimest of subjects. In his
death Masonry lost the word it so much needs, and which
you can only regain by making proiiciency along the lines
indicated. Is not the record strangely silent concerning
the death or disappearance of a certain oiiicer of the lodge
who was prominent in the work of the temple? What
became of him? 'When the germ or seed is born within
you each month, and matures to a point where the sex
nature is aroused, the following occurs fin your body:
From the incipiency of the thought for sexual indulgence
until you gratify the same, thought is at work. The thought
affects the centers in which are located the genitals first;
and this force is moving at such a high rate of vibration
that any thought of this character only serves to increase
the same, and as the rate of vibration increases, the tem-
perature rises until the blood grows hot with passion and
does not subside until gratified. Is not the river Heddekel
in the west? Does it not symbolize the blood? Is not the
life germ extracted from the blood? Can it get back into
the blood? No. Then it flees to the east gate, or spinal
column and there it is slain, and with it goes the word
which was made flesh and dwelled in you until you rejected
it is the stone "despised and' rejected of the builders." So
ESOTERIC MASONRY 63
,
often as you do this you rob the Master Architect or
* *
* *
of the material with which to build the temple. Is
it not ti-me to take heed how you enter upon this tremen-
dous task of temple building?
/Vhen the man shall have initiated a suiiicient number
of germs or seed there will dawn in his brain, or rather
Penial Gland a divine "Light," and he has come into seer-
ship. "Behold the stone Hidden under the oak tree. and
it hath heard all the words of the Lord which he hath
spoken unto us." joshua 24:27. I would that the scope of
this work would permit me to elaborate this quotation from
joshua. Suiiice it for the present to know that the word
"joshua" means Jehovah is salvation. The oak tree is the
right and left lobe of the -brain. and the stone hidden is the
Philosophers stone, the Penial Gland, the heart of the
brain. "/Vherefore, also it is contained in the scriptures,
behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious
and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded."
The Great Master saith unto them, "Did ye never read in
the scriptures. the stone which the builders rejected, the
same has become the head of the corner? THIS IS
THE LORD'S DOINGS, AND IS MARVELOUS
IN OUR EYES." Matt. 21:24. How men have
continually rejected this' corner stone is apparent to
you now." "How long, Oh Lord, How long?" That
it is a corner stone is significant. and it is ap-parent remem-
bering its location relative to the points of the compass in
man. That north-east corner. You will do well to read
the woe pronounced in the forty-fourth verse of this same
chapter against those who misuse this stone. By reference
to the eleventh chapter of Genesis, third verse, you will
find this language: "And they had brick for stone, and
slime had they for mortar." Read all of this chapter. The
land of Shinar. means the land of two rivers, the Pison
and the Euphrates, the symbology of which you are familiar
with by this time. The slime which they used for mortar
must be apparent' to you, for it is nothing less than the
64 ESOTERIC MASONRY
expended life force, while the brick are the mutilated germs
instead of the stone of Iesous. I beseech you if you' are
truly and earnestly looking for the light that you read
diligently the twenty-ninth chapter of the first book of
-Chronicles, and the sixth verse of the third chapter of second
Chronicles. The word "Parvaim" used in this second refer-
ence means "Eastern," from this it is surely evident to
you from whence the "Gold" came that entered into the
building of the temple. V/'e are told plainly that it came
from the land of "Ur," and this is a section or city located
in 3/Iesapotamia, and this is east. Besides, the letters "U"
and "R" was the Hebrew formula for "Gold" or "Light."
Hence they occur in such words as "Saviour," _"Resurrec-
tion," etc. just here I am going to take the room to enter
fully into the explanation of the first verse of the last chap-
ter referred to. The words, Solomon. Jerusalem. Moriah,
David, Ornan and Jebusite, mean Light of man, House of
God, Penial Gland, Beloved, Joyful and under, in the order
named. Is it not evident to you that he began to build
the temple within the house, in the Penial Gland which
is under the brain? And is not a threshing floor a strange
place to begin the erection of a temple? Yet this is the
exact language of this verse. 'It is here that the stones of
the builder are rigidly examined to see if the mark of
INCONTINENCE IS MISSING. for to have the mark of
incontinence missing on the stone is a sure sign that the
stone has been treated by a master builder. After the com-
pletion of the temple there were certain things brought into
it, among which was the arm. The Cherubiinancl Seraphim
are the right and left lobes of the brain overshadowing -the
ark, or Penial Gland; the staves supporting the ark, are
Ida (Pronounced, Eeda) and Pingala, the two forces which
precede the coming of the Queen of Sheba, or The shock
of enlightenment. One of these forces passes to the right
and the other to the left of the gland, passing to the front
and turning over either eye, thereby preparing these sensi-
tive organs for this mighty shock of light.
'
ESOTERIC MASONRY 65
I co-me now to a statement that will meet the stubborn.
resistance to all men who are Masons in name only. And
by this I mean those who are no further interested than
to be content with the esoteric work. It is dark in the
north. and it will forever remain dark until woman is given
her proper place in Masonry. I hope no shallow brain will
construe my words to mean that woman as the female of
the race, will be initiated into the physical lodge and seated
in the North, though this will be the inevitable outcome
when the craft has learned the true art of building. But I
do mean that as a Mason, you will remove your thoughts
from the "Dead Sea," -or the physical womb of woman. and
place your thought on the Iesous, or the woman "That
dwelleth in the North," plainly your own feminine. Voman
is of such a complex nature, that she cannotlreveal herself
unto man until man creates the condition. Did not Solo-
mon finish and dedicate the temple before the coming of the
Queen of Sheba. Now who is this Queen of Sheba? The
word "Sheba," in the Hebrew tongue, means seven. There-
fore she is the queen of seven. Seven what? There are
seven principal Chakras, or ganglionic, or nerve centers in
the body and the queen of all of them is located at the. base
of the spinal column. This is the mystic Kundalina, or
serpentine coil of the ancients. It is the spirit force of
the god-head. It is the "»Voman that fled to the winder-
ness," spoken of by Iohn in Revelation. Remember that
Solomon was four years preparing the material for the
temple before the actual building began. He was seven
years longer in building, or a total of eleven years. This
is the dual number and is full of significance. 'Those who
read these pages and being convinced of its truth, will at~
the -end ofthe tenth year experience a peculiar sensation,
along each side of the spine, terminating over either eye.
At the end of the eleventh year, the Queen will ascend the
spinal column, between Ida and Pingala, in a spiral course,
entering the Penial Gland, and you will experience the
SHOCK OF ENLIGHTENMENT. Did you ever ascend
66 ESOTERIC MASONRY
e
a spiral stairway in your travels? Read and study Ist
Kings, roth chapter. You will not become a Master Mason
until you master the esoteric meaning of the signs and
symbols with which you are so familiar. Cleverly and
deeply hidden from vulgar and profane gaze is hidden the
sublimest philosophy that God has vouchsafed unto man. It
lies within you to master these things of mystery. Another
may tell you much to help you, but you must prove these
things for yourself, you alone must make proficiency. Many
will perhaps read this work with a feeling of regret for
having done so, for they know that it means the cessation
of all activity in the sex relation on the physical plane, or
the giving up of the "accursed function" as John calls this
relation in his book. But it is imperative to one that would
become a Master Mason in deed and in truth. You give
this. up; but hear the words of the Great One, "Behold I
show you a more excellent way. Not until you do this
thing and finish the building of the temple, will you ever
find or know the lost word. Read Ist Cor. 15:29. Here
Paul (the small voice) speaks of those baptized for the dead.
The Roman Catholic Church practices this rite to some
extent now, and the Lutherans practiced it for a time but
have long since discontinued the rite. Why does not the
Protestant church observe it? Because the baptism of a
living person in the stead of one' passed out, presented a
condition too ludicrous for serious consideration. Then
what does the passage mean? Simply this: Each germ
saved from water, with the mark of incontinence missing,
mu'st eventually descend into water to assist in the resur-
rection of the slain germs. But it is first "tried bythe
square." .
'
~
The word "Harash" means "Engraver." His specialty
was to engrave on silver and gold, decorating bands, hair
ornaments, girdles, garters, medallions, etc., choosing em-
blems from the birds of the air, the stars and animals, and
somewhere I have heard the reference to something being
"more ancient than the Roman Eagle and more honorable
ESOTERIC MASONRY 67
;__..ii__
.__._.._
than the Star and Garter." This engraver is constantly at
work engraving the image of your thought upon the germs
within you.
~
It seems pertinent now to enter into a more detailed
account of the procedure of "Moses." Keep constantly in
mind the meaning of this word. Before going further read
carefully the thirteenth and fourteenth chapters of Num-
bers, or you will not understand the following. The mean-
ing of the names of these twelve tribes has been already
given and you will need to refer to them often. Notice the
first one. From the tribe of germs who see the sun he sends
Shammua, son of Zaccur. `/Vhere were they sent from?
Paran. This word means "Land of cares." Plainly the
kingdom of the He Phren. The word "Shammua°` means
"heard" and "Zaccur," "rnindful." From the tribe that
obeys he chooses Saphat, son of Hori. These two words
mean "Judge" and "cave men" in the _order given, the latter
being a reference to the germs having their home in the
"Chakras" of the body. From the tribe of praise, Caleb,
son of Iephunneh. "Caleb" means "faithful" and "]ephun-
nea." "for whom a way is made." Of the tribe of recom-
pense, Igal, son of joseph. "Igal," "El will avenge," and
"]oseph," "added to." Of the tribe of double fruitedness,
Oshea, son of Nun. "Oshea" (or Joshua), "Iah is his
help." "Nun," "{ish." Of the tribe of "the son of my right-
hand," Palti, son of Raphu. "Palti," "deliverance of _Tah;"
"Raphu." "healed" Of the tribe of habitation, Gaddiel,
son of Sodi. "Gaddiel," "God is my fortune ;" "Sodi," ".my
secret," or "confidant of Jah." Of the tribe of "added to,"
Gaddi, son of Susi. "Gaddi," "fortunate ;" "Susi," "horse-
man." Of the tribe of judgment, Ammiel, son of Gemalli.
"A1'1'1IT1lCl," "people of God ;" "Gemalli," "camel driver." ~Of
the tribe of happiness, Sethur, son of Michael. "Sethur,"
hidden ;" "Michael," "like God." Of the tribe of wrestling.
Nahbi, son of Vophsi. "Nahbi," "securely hidden ;"
"Vophsi," my addition." Of the tribe of the troop, Geuel,
son~ of Machi. "Geuel," "God's majesty ;" "Machi,"
68 ESOTERIC MASONRY
"Diminution." Yo-u will observe that one germ is chosen
from each "tribe" or "man" of the body. Notice the word,-
ing of verse I7. They are commanded to go "by way of the
south," and what point of the compass is this? The feet.
And the feet are what? Fish. And the fish are what? 'lfhe
psycho-physical germ. From thence they are commanded
to "go up into the mountain." Plainly, the brain, or king-
dom of the He Phren. Study verse 21. "Zin"-"coldness,"
"rock wall; "Rehob"-"room," and "Hamatl1°'-"fortiiica-
tion," "to defend." You see these germs explore the body
from the procreative organs to the room (skull). Verse
22-"They ascended by the south." You see the way of
going up is by first going down. "Hebron"-"the friend,"
"association." "Ahiman"--"my brother is a gift." "She-
shai"-"whitish." "'l`almai"-"full of furrows." "Anak"-
"neck chain." "Zoan"-"migration," "departure," Thi-
man, Sheshai and Talmaim are symbols of both the penial
gland and the brain. Tsiman being a symbol of the gland.
for this is the home of "jesus" and is not "he" "our elder
brother," also a "gift ?" Sheshai is a symbol of the whitish
matter of the brain, while Talmai is a symbol of the furrows
or convolutions of this organ. Notice closely the sentence
in parenthesis at the close of this verse. 'We found that
Solomon was four years in preparing the material for the
temple before actual construction began, and the building
was seven years in course of construction. Hebron is a
symbol of the cluster, or association, of the germs that are
saved during these four years. Therefore it is seven years
before Zoan, the migration or departure.
The whole nervous man with its fruit, the psycho-
physical germ, is likened unto a vine bearing clusters of
grapes. You will better understand the language of the
Great Master when he says, "I am the TRUE vine, ye
are the branches." Plainly, it is the thirteenth saying to
the other twelve men of the body, "It is impossible for.
you to exist without me." For does not_the record say,
"No more can the branch bear fruit of itself?" You surely
ESOTERIC MASONRY 69
see hoiw each of -the twelve men of the -body are but
branches of this indispensable thirteenth. Read the entire
fifteenth chapter of john with this light and witness how
the story unfolds. Verse 26--These germs return to the
"Land of cares," or kingdom of the He Phren and unto
Kadesh--"holy." You see the place of these saved germs
becomes holy even before their migration. "Put the shoes
from off thy feet (fish), for the ground whereon thou stand-
est is holy ground." Observe that Oshea, son of Nun,
is the only one of the twelve tribes whose name is changed
-verse 16. The primary meaning of the word "Oshea" is
'°intention," "cletermination." Also remember that "he" is
a son of "fish." Plainly. it is the intention or determination,
of this germ to escape from the kingdom of the He Phren,
and as "_]`oshua" delivers a true report. After you have
set out upon this journey you will find much to discourage
you. as you think of your former life and acts upon the
lower plane. and unless you are exceeding careful and
watchful there will come a "longing for the Hesh pots of
Egypt-'darkness'." This is "murmuring in the wilderness"
and brings swift and certain destruction to the work already
done. I tell you this-a certain cure for the relish of "the
leeks and onions of Egypt" is a "taste of the milk and
honey of Canaan." Out of the twelve sent out only two
deliver a true report, Caleb and Joshua, or' plainly, your
intuitive self'of the Iesous and your faithful conscience of
the He Phren. 'What are you going to do about it? For
know this, when you "without any mental reservation or
secret evasion whatever".determine to take the great and
holy name of "Yahveh" or "Yod' he Vau he," the great name
of God, and begin this ~
journey, YOU DARE NOT TURN
BACK AT YOURPERIL. To do so is to take the name
of God in vain, and "the Lord will not hold him guiltless
that taketh his name in vain." Again it is written, "cursed
is every man who putteth his hand to the handle of the
plow and LOOKETH BACK." Again, "It is a fearful
thing to fall into the hands of the living God." Remember
70 ESOTERIC MASONRY
Lot's wife. Lot is only a symbol of blind reason on the
plane of the He Phren. Sodom-"vineyard fburning."
Gomorrah--"submergecl." Lot's wife is a symbol of the
feminine side of the He Phren. You see then by virtue, of
men reasoning that they cannot -be healthy and live a
celibate life, and that the Creator gave them these organs,
etc., is simply Lot catering to his lower self, the vineyard
'burning and submerged in emotions, desires and passions of
the He Phren. We have noted the saline nature of the
semen, and is not the masculine organ in the state of erec-
tion a pillar of salt? "The way is so plain, that a. Wayfar-
ing man, though a fool, may not err therein."
'
Now let us apply our key to the book of Iob and witness
how easily it unlocks. And I may add that in unlocking
this book, which has been the despair of men for all time,
you unlock the whole scripture. ]ob is a. symbol of man.
The first part of the book deals with him as he is led, domi-
nated and controlled by the He Phren, on the highest plane
of morality of which the lower mind is cognizant. Eliphaz
-"God for strength." "Bildad"-"son of contention."
"Zophar"---"a little bird." "Elihu"-"My God is HE."
Notice they are four in number and man is -built on the
plan _of a square. But notice that Elihu has nothing to
say until the latter part of the book. Eliphaz, Bildad and
Zophar are symbols of the reason, will and consicence of
the He Phren. So with only the light of reason shining
on this plane he suffers all manner of distress and cannot
understand the prosperity of the wicked. He stubbornly
contended that his life _was perfect and that he was .not
at fault, and could not understand how the wicked should
prosper so in temporal affairs, forgetting the words of the
Psalmist, 'I have seen the wicked, etc." Ps. 35-36. Is this
not _characteristic of the man who prides himself upon his
morality? Now read carefully the first and second verses
of the thirty-eighth chapter. You see the foolishness of
men., The light must come from within. Read carefully'
thespeech of Elihu, beginning with._the thirty-fifth chapter-
9
ESOTERIC MASONRY 71
Elihu is a symbol of the awakened Iesous, or intuitive self,
and in this address classes _Tob with Eliphaz, Bildad and
Zophar. Observe that following this address of Elihu the
He Phren ,or the self righteous Job, is so stilled that
Almighty God communes -with the inner man. I/Vhat fol-
lows? Read the third, fourth and fifth verses of chapter
forty. You see when you get a good square look at yourself.
how you have continuously and persistently slain the life
force within you ,the language just cited is indeed appro-
priate. Do you not feel such penitence now, or have you
so "hardened your heart (atrophied the penial g1and)" that
you will not hear? Has the mandate gone forth in your
case. "Let Ephraim alone, he is joined to idols?" /Vhen
job, or the man, gets this tremendous view of himself is
not the forty-second chapter a natural sequence? In read-
ing the eighth verse of this chapter remember that the bull
is the sign Taurus, and the ram, Aries, one the head and the
other the neck. In other words, seven saved and purified
germs that have matured when the moon was in these signs,
must be surrendered to whom or what? Surrendered unto
the germs which are "sealed unto the day of redemption,"
and you are deprived of their help until such a time. The
latter part of the book presents the same job "clothed and
in his RIGHT mind." Does this not make the book clear
to you now? I maintain that this is the simplest and yet
the sublimest philosophy Almighty God has given unto
men. Mind you, I am not seeking or acknowledging any
credit to myself. for I know myself to be "LESS THAN
THE LEAST of all saints," but it hath pleased Almighty
God to present His truth to you in this form, using 'an
unknown and obscure human agency, FOR WHOM IT
IS USELESS TO SEEK. Vhen a messenger boy arrives
at your door with a message. you spend no time thinking
of the little instrument down in the office that ticked oi?
the message, but you open it at once to discover the con-
tents. So spend no time wondering who I am or where'°I
am. Get the message andforget the rnessenger."
'
72 ESOTERIC M.-XSONRY
_ ,
/Vhatever is susceptible of a literal understanding must
of necessity rest upon a physical basis, therefore subject to
physical law and is cognized by the He Phren which is
governed by the law of this realm. Hence man`s inherent
tendency~to reject that which lies outside the scope of his
He Phren, having but little, if any, knowledge of his Iesous.
This has been the source of what the church calls infidelity.
Honest, sincere and thinking men could not be consistent
and profess to believe that which their reason denied to be
true. They were ignorant of their own Iesous and l1ow to
awaken it, but they knew that someone was wrong. though
the best they could do in their blindness was to guess at the
right. Some, despairing of ever reaching the goal, finally
denied in toto. Vl/'hen you present the deluge to my He
Phren and ask me to accept it as literal, my reason revolts
at the insult. It is puerile. But] when you present it to
my Iesous as a symbol within which is hidden a lesson of
tremendous import from our God. my Iesous, being suffi-
ciently awakened, sees the "light" and "adds to its virtue
knowledge," thus learning the lesson of life. I herewith
present _some facts for your consideration. _From the en-
trance into the ark until the departure of its inhabitants
was three hundred fifty-live days. There are in existence
upon the earth about seventeen hundred species of animals.
About one thousand of these are considered clean. These
went in'by sevens, male and female, or a total of fourteen
thousand. There are five hundred and fifty thousand bugs
and insects. These went in my two, one million, one hun-
dred thousand. There are one thousand reptiles. These
went in my twos, two thousand more. There are six thous-
and species of birds. These Went in by twos, twelve thous-
and altogether. The ark, according to the measurements of
the Book, was three stories high and measured five hundred
and forty-seven feet by ninety-one feet, or less than stand-
ing room for the load. Where would Noah put the food
and storage he was commanded to gather? How could
these eight persons take care of such a collection, looking
ESOTERIC MASONRY 73
.li i_. "*"'*'ii"'
1-_-.1_-_-.1-li..
after their food, water and sanitary conditions? "fVhere
would he store a year`s supply of fresh water? If you take
the position that God did this or helped to do this in a
miraculous manner, you .explicitly contradict the book, for
it says, "The Lord com-manded Noah" to make all these
preparations. Besides you strip your God of all dignity
and reduce him to the level of a common porter. I submit.
does your reason accept without question. a literal inter-
pretation of this account? Then is the account false? By
no means. Be it understood that the writer accepts each
and every utterance of this Book of Books but not in a
literal sense. Remember, the thing symbolized is greater
than the symbol. I beseech you to quit feeding and starv-
ing yourself upon the symbol and get the thing symbolized,
or, break the shell and get the kernel. And here I note
that man is dual in his nature. having a higher and lower
mind. The lower mind. whose light is reason, is wisely
provided for in the Book, and in its effort to analyze the
scriptures and harmonize its utterances, it unwittingly pre-
pares itself for the entrance of light, for this mind must
be "raised" to the level of the Iesous. Hence by applica-
tion and study it stores itself with a physical knowledge of
these things, or, it familiarizes itself with the symbol, that
it may more readily catch its hidden meaning. This is the
magnificent task the church militant has been doing for
the fworld, until now it pleases God to reveal the "hidden
things of the gospel." You are beginning to catch the force
of these words, "Search the scriptures, for in them ye
THINK ye have eternal' life. and these are they which
testify of me." »Vhy did the Great Master use the word
"think"? IN-hy did he not say. "for in them ye KNQW
ye have eternal life, etc."? Because he was speaking to the
He Phren of men, and does not this mind "think, etc."?
This mind "thinks" but the Iesous KNOWS. The wisdom
of the Father will appear in the existence of so many differ-
ent churches and creeds upon earth. This fact has served
to provoke a discussion that has presented the symbol in
74 ESOTERIC MASONRY
;1i..11»
every conceivable form, so that men are without excuse for
not having "made proficiency." If you are unable to follow
the great "class" of humanity on to full and complete initia-
tion into "this mystery of mysteries" it is because you have
wilfully and deliberately neglected your bible. "For in
such, an hour as ye think not the son of man cometh.':'
Read Matt. 24:9 to 42. ¥Vhat does the Great Teacher
mean? In the thirty-ninth verse He declares they were
ALL taken away in the days of Noah and declares that this
shall be the case in His day. Yet He follows by saying,
"one shall be taken and the other left." Does He contra-
dict himself ? No. VS/'hat then? The "men" in the "field"
are the masculine of both the Iesous and He Phren. The
"women" at the "mill" are the feminine of the Iesous and
He Phren. The former a spiritual and the latter a physical
product. The former is taken but the latter is left, or in
other words, the masculine.and feminine He Phren. "Now
this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the
kingdom of God." 1 Cor. 15:50. But, you ask, what then
is the meaning of the word deluge? Let us apply our
key. Noah--"rest/' Shem-"l<nown," "renowned." Ham.
-"black/' Iapeth-"extent/' "fair." The whole account
of theflood is only a symbol of man passing out of the
physical body and resting until his next incarnation. But
you have not proven the doctrine of reincarnation from the
Book you love to quote. Let us see. Isa. 30:15. Commit
to memory 1 Cor. I5 :I9. If the reIigionist's view is correct,
that we live and die but once, why does Paul ask, "if in
this life ONLY?" /Vhat other life is implied except the
life of the reincarnated ego? Algain, in Matt. 11:14, the
Grleat Master expressly declares that _Iohn the Baptist is
the reincarnation of Elijah. Other scripture could be cited;
but, "in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every
word be estabIished." The ark is a symbol of that force
in the universe that bears the purified part of man to
Ararat, which word means "sacred ground." The earth
is here used as a symbol of the body, and does it not perish
ESOTERIC MASONRY 75
with man's passing out? Shem is a symbol .of the soul,
which dwells in Paradise. Ham is a symbol of the physical
man, which returns to blackness. japeth is a symbol of the
spirit and who can compass the "extent" of spirit? The
reptiles and insects are symbols of the baser thoughts of
the I-Ie Phren. The quadrupeds are symbols of the emo-
tions of the soul, and the birds are symbols of the aspira-
tions of the spirit. This collection form a residue, -as it
were, with which the ego begins its next incarnation. Notice
that Noah, the resting ego, first sends out "a raven, which
went to and fro, until the waters dries up from off the
earth." Plainly, this is an emblem of the, desire sent out
by the ego; a desire for a body through which to reincar-
nate, or manifest itself. Observe that no mention is made of
the raven's return, but at least fourteen days elapse between
its departure and the return of the dove with the -olive
leaf. Fourteen days would be a long flight for such a small
bird. The dove was sent out twice. The first time it "found
no rest for the sole of her foot (fish)." The dove is used
as a symbol of spirit. Plainly, the incarnating ego has the
right of choice of planetary conditions and earthly parents
under which and through whom to make its advent, re-
stricted to choosing from a. plane to which it has evolved.
This may explain the "Third heaven" to you of which Paul
speaks. The second time the spirit, or dove, goes out it
returns to the resting ego with the sign of peace, and after
seven days, the perfectspiritual number, the ego reincar-
nates. The numbers, days, months and years used in this
description are deeply significant and full of hidden mean-
ing.
_ I come now to the closing pages of this book. Oh,
Thou Architect of the Universe, Thou knowest that I have
sought favor of none in committing to the written page this
Truth.~ Thou knowest that I have not sought temporal
reward for the same. Without fear or favor we commit it
to the world knowing full well that it must accomplish
that ~whereunto Thou has sent it. Amen. =So mote it be.
76 ESOTERIC MASONRY
WARN ING.
Do not attempt to teach this truth as your own. It is
not. It is not mine. It is universal. Do not invite a
penalty you are powerless to escape. I who warn thee am
PI-IYH LOTUS.
HEALTH.
I come now to discuss a subject that is vital to every
human being. I ask you to lay aside all preconceived ideas
and calmly look this question in the face. I submit that
Ignorance is the cause of all disease and suffering. You
demand the proof and shall have it. Remember you may
deny to be true what I shall assert, and in after years
change your mind concerning the same, but the truth is
just the same truth that it was when you denied its exis-
tence. The Creator did not create man and fail to provide
perfect conditions for his perfect physical health. Fora
being with power to create man, to bring him into existence
under conditions Hooded with pain, sickness and suffering,
making no provision for his escape, would 'be a monster
that would justly merit the scorn of even the crudest
savage. The Allopathic physician fails because the best
that he can do is to administer some palliative. The
Osteopathic physician is one step in advance trying to cor-
rect the physical frame, proceeding on the theory that the
Creator made the "machine" perfect, and they reason that
if they can correct the imperfection, whatever caused it,
they will reach the seat of the trouble. The Neuro-practic
proceeds to tell you that the manipulation of the physical
man assisted by a certain line of vibratory treatment will
restore your health. I am not insensible to the fact that
these men have done the best they knew, and I am ready
to believe that in the very large majority of cases they
have been conscientious and faithful to their trust. But as
I stated, ignorance is the base of all ailment and suffering.
ESOTERIC MASONRY 77
Not that these men are illiterate or
unlearned, but they have
failed to look deeply into the very thing that needs must
triumph, the physical law governing physical life.
-
They do not know that each person born into this world
comes into it under certain planetary influence, these influ-
ences were perfect just at birth, or the child was STILL
BORN. You say, then. if this is so, why should the child
ever change its location? Remember that the planets move,
the one most to be considered is the Sun. This luminary
by progressed motion passes through one sign in thirty
years. I mention for you to consider that the Great Master
was thirty years of age when he entered his public ministry.
The influences of these worlds are exactly perfect looked
at from a physical standpoint, upon the physical man. Now
the world moves, and as they move the exact point of con-
tact with the earth of their special vibration moves also.
I grant you that the largest. and may even add, the most
important to consider, are very slow in their progressed
motion. But it is necessary for you to know just what
influences were in operation when you were born, and then
find the exact spot on earth where these same influences
are in operation. There you will find perfect physical
health. Vl/hy? Because you will be in exact harmony
with the great physical law that governs the physical world,
which is the Creator manifesting Himself in this manner.
In the days when men lived hundreds of years they under~
stood perfectly this law, and lived until they had finished
their mission on earth. Let me again warn you, that if
you seek this truth just for the sake of knowing it, and for
selfish motives you invite certain destruction. Remember
Paulwarns you in the following words, "So then, the law
which was ordained unto life, I found to be unto death."
This may separate you from your family, "But he that
loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of
me." And you will never find the "-me" in all its fullness
until you find the spot in harmony with your physical life.
78 ESOTERIC MASONRY
How many people have you known, apparently enjoying
the best of health, that have gone out in a few days? What
was the matter? The doctor said this and that, but the
reason was that the critical angle fell, and they were
beyond all human aid. _
'
The Planets move in one direction and the signs move
in the opposite. This is the mill of the gods, and remember
that "The Mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind
exceeding fine."
The critical angle may fall at any time with any one,
but if you know the law, and know just how to avoid the
critical angle, you will escape physical dissolution until
you have finished your mission.
Eugenics are a step in advance, because the study will
have a tendency to halt the indiscriminate 'making of
matches and the begetting of children that are largely the
fruit of accident. But when men know the law, they will
mate according to law, and offspring will result from a
strict and exact following of the law, and man will gradually
come into his own. The following of this law, and this
law only, will bring about the production of a perfect
physical man, because it is unquestionably in accordance
with the Creator's plan. Why murmur against the Creator,
when it is man's own ignorance that is responsible for his
condition? He has failed to "seek first the kingdom." If
you are sincerely in earnest about these things find one
informed concerning them and "prove these things" whether
they are true or not.
_
I submit that what I have said to you through these
pages is logical and reasonable, it remains for you to put
it into effect. V/'hat are you going to do about it?
ESOTERIC MASONRY 79
A WARNING.
1
Amid the gloom and disorder, that circles the spirit of man,
There standeth one close to the border, that can help as none
other can.
Men grope in darkness and terror, choosing the wrong for the
right,
And so they go on in their error, and the blessing goes by in
the night.
2
They struggle and strive for the glory that perishes e'er it is
born,
And over and over the story, is writ on their faces so worn.
They heed not the voice of the ages, that calls them from
darkness to light,
And as inward the tempest still rages, the blessing goes by in
the night.
°
3
They cry at the fate which surrounds them, and rail at the God
of the skies,
They forged the chains that hath bound them, they did it-~
"Having not eyes."_
They curse the day of their borning, and smirch with their with-
ering blight,
To them there cometh no morning, for the blessing goes by in
the night.
ESOTERIC MASONRY
;;_
OU'1"v/'ARD BO UND.
1
Loosed from the moorings of a sinning world,
I turn toward the open sea.
My flag of Truth at the mast unfurled,
And my spirit sings. for at last 'tis free.
The Vlford is the compass that shapes my course
The Life is the chart that guides the helm,
And the Master Mind of the universe,
Will stay the waves that would o'erwhelrn.,
2
I saw the wreckage of drifting hulls.
On death struck sharp-a hidden rock;
The passions of men, like hungry gulls,
Fed on the crew that felt the shock.
Oh, woeful wreck, Oh, piteous sight,
That men -forget the God who rules,
And steer their course by a treacherous light,
A Will o' the Wisp of stagnant pools.
3
The Master leads to an open way,
Where the sea is calm and the breezes blow,
It is never night, but always day,
And the way is plain-to those who know.
The daring soul that tries its wings,
To cross the circling ages span,
Will conie at last where the spirit sings,
Himself a Master, and a MAN.
