{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__reese___phrenology_known_by_its_fruits.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology Known By Its Fruits","mylang":"de"}
.-..
,; ~ - -------
. { -- .
--
, :V-··
.. ,
• PHRENOLOGY
BJ:IIIG
A BRIEF REVIEW O F
,.;;.
DOC'I;.QR BR.IGHAM'S LATE WORK,
J:lfTITLED
"OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLUENCE OF RELIGION
UPON THE HEALTH AND PHYSICAL WELFARE OF
MANKIND." ';1:
li'\Y D.£.VIliiD li!IDimJimlll'ii'IBI IIUIIIID, Ito Do
OJ' l'IJ:W•YOU• .-.,
"Tnu -eth to be a nperlluity ofboob- but, ahall no more b• ...te'
Yea! make more rood boob- which, like the MrpeDt fl( llloeea, may deYour
tbe eerpenta of the eachanten."-LoJt.D B.lcox.
.. .. : .
NEW-YORK:
HOWE & BATES, 76 CHATHAM-STREET.
1836.
.st
II
..
\•'
(
2151.53
ENTERED, according to Act Df Congress. in the year 1836, b;y DAVID
MEREDITH REESE, M. D:, in the Clerk's Office of the Distrtct Court
of the Southern District of New-York.
.. .: ~·; .-.
.. .....
.
• • i' ' ...
.... .. .
'.
...
•...:
i
CLAYTON & BlJCKlNGHAJII., PRUIT&RS,
No. 9 Tbames-stroet.
..-···.....
'.,.
..
.... '
~ ..:
'igitized by GoogIe
----
•
TO .. '
• THOMAS SBW ALL, M. D.,
.;_...
PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN THE
COLUMBIAN COLLEGE OF WASHINGTON, D. C.
Dna Sta-
..our well known hostility to the whole Phreno.
logical fabric-because o£' your well founded apprehen·
sions of its deplorable moral influence-as well as the
profound esteem and respect I have always entertained
(or your personal and profelllional character, have
emboldened me in the dedication of this humble efFort
to you.
Accept, Sir, this small token of my afFectionate
regard and friendship.
DAVID MEREDITH REESE, M. D.
,Pe1JJ·York, October l1t~ 1836,
r
Jigitized 'YGoogle
/
•
..,
. -
. .
--
~ ..........
-.
~ ....:#
:~~:...~...
PREFACE.
··-
:l,. .. • ..
.-.
....
..
. ..
..·· ..
...
..
....··
Ta& author of the following pages, having more th&n.Qlt~,!l had
occasion to appear before the public in the unenviable•af""-:,acter
of a polemick, had become weary ofcontroversy. With itV.tea..
ing years, he had thought to have shielded the sword or"..v"ord].
condict in ita peaceful scabbard, and whether he had be~Offifl·
wiser or not, he ver. thought to have "learned war no mo~.:::::
In this ll.acific purpose he found no small share of self compla: ••
cency, Mid was already employing his leisure hours in the quiet-:. ••
avocations of reading and study, preparatory to the completion of
some literary efforts, which have been long contemplated, aDd
still lie unfinished upon his escritoir, among the few manuscripts
which his time and opportunities have allowed him to begin, with
no other result than to " report progress." •
After such a resolution to retrNt from the din of polemical
strife, some explanation of the motives for his suddenly emerging
from his obscurity is due to his friends, to whom his purpose had
been communicated, and who will be surprised, and some ofthem,
perhaps, grieved, that he should so soon buckle on his armour.
To such he will only need to say, that the work of Dr. Brigham
had not then appeared, which has called forth this reply, nor was
it until a abort time since, that it came under his notice. His at-
tention was first directed to it, by a distinguished literary friend,
in the city of Washington, who, in a letter referring to the work,
earnestly urged the importance of an early antidote to the moral
poison it contained, and made an appeal to the author, for a prompt
attempt to repel this assault upon both medical and theological
truth, and to refute the hereaies it contaill8 against science, as well
aa religion. This appeal wu- rendered irresistible, by the im·
portunity of other judicious friends, who overcame all scruples
against farther controversial writing, by alleging that the minda
of the young -and rising generation would readily imbibe the
prejudices against religion which Dr. B.'s book is so obviously
ealculated to inculcate, coming as it purports to do, from a regu.
..·
.
..
.·....
......
6 :• ·.:PREFACE•
...
larly educated ph~j:i~:and shielded from suspicion by the pre-
text of being di~l\tedby philosophy and eeience, and under the
imposing guise -of iJ "profound respect" for religion itself. Alacl
they still furtb!r.Qrged the writer. to thia unwelcome service, by
the considela\i,.oi. that the characterof the work wauuch, embra·
cing the sub;acta of health and disease, and ~specially by reason
of the ~rvatiOilll on insanity, that none but a physician could
be appropn\tely expected to reply to it. Constrained to concv
wi~~ba·in the opinion that the book imperiously called for an
ilnajf~the author bas yielded to their Judgment, rather than his
oH:in becoming the writer of the following pages, but not until
"lie .blid waited several months in vain, in the hope that another
: ••w.iuld undertake it.
• •.•;•Ever aware of the imperfections of his wisdom and piety, and
• •:·•• peculiarly sensible of his liability to an excese of zeal..@'~ oeca·
sionally to a degree of causticity in manner and style, the author,
while he regrets this torrid temperament, which may be ascribed
to his physical and phrenological "organization," can offer no
apology for" calling things by their right names," Towards the
author under review, he is conscious of no sentiment inconsis·
tent with " the law of love ;" but with tile book which bears his
name, he has no fellowship, and he is free to avow that he con·
temn! and even abhors the errors on which he has animadverted,
and he "loves to abhor them." He has no kindred affiliation
with the sentiment, that because a man is a professor of the reli·
gion which inculcates " love to all men," that be is, therefore, to
" suffer sin in his neighbor" without uttering reproof; or to " pro·
pheoy smooth things," when the "citadel of this world's hopes,
the sac~d edifice of our holy religion," is approached by the
brand of au incendiary, even though he should be "transformed
into an angel of light," or attempt the deed of darkness under
the specious guise of philosophy, or " science, falsely so called."
In humble imitation of an apostle, he would " withstand him to
the face, because he is to be be blamed;" yet, in doing so with
the plainness of speech, and just indignation which the cnuse of
truth demands, he trusts he has not betrayed a spirit of vindio·
tiveness, or unbecoming censoriousness. If it shall so appear to
any friend of the truth, it will be a subject of regret, and to none
more sincerely than to himself, since it would grieve him to find
that the infirmity ·of the writer should thua deteriorate from the
PREFACE. 7
uaefulneu of his effort. He can, therefore, Gilly say to the reader
as his apology for imperfections either in matter or manner, that
tilt re880n why the task baa not beenhecUr performed, is for want
of an abler hand, a wiser head, and a better heart. That it has
not beea earlier published, ie wholly owing to the ineeeeant av~
cations which other alld imperative duties have imposed, by
which he has been deprived of those houn of lei•ure which he
would gladly have devoted to the work, and by which he has been
constrained to prepare detached parte at interval•, sometimes of
' weeks together, and to write chie6y during those few houn which
'a laborioue profeeeion render needful for repose.
Having written the whole under these dieadnntages, the author
can scarcely say that he is himself' satisfied with the manner of
the performance ; nor can he hope to escape the ban of reproba·
tion few that class of critics, who make a man "an offender for
a word." As, however, he does not write for reputation, nor yet
for money, in the present cue, but wholly for the purpose to ex-
pose error and vindicate truth, irrespective of any minor or per·
sonal consideration, he will be con\ent to bear with what grace he
may, the condemnatory sentence of such ae demand perfect
symmetry of elocution in every page of an original work. . He
"could not meet their requisitions if he would," and, in eobel'
verity, he may add, he "would not if he could." To have his
sentences stereotyped into conformity with their archetype,
would atllict him as grievously as to distort his own limbs, and
limit his locomotion by a straight jacket.
In respect to the views he expresses of Phrenology, and the
diarespect with which he treats that" science," the author deems
it proper to inform the reader, that hia own opinions on that sub-
ject have recently undergone an entire revolution. Attracted by
th&learning and labors of Gall, and admiring the genius and un-
tiring industry of Spurzheim, with many others he had hailed
phrenology as a science, and even partially invested craniology
itself with the merits of a philosophical system. It ~as, how·
ever, with anatomical views entirely that he had looked upon the
subject with favor, and he had not been led to investigate its mo-
ral aspect or tendency until recently. He had regarded the
light which phrenologists claimed to have thrown upon the struc-
ture and.functions of the brain, as calculated to contribute to the
business of education, to aid in some questions of medical juri&-
8 PREFACE.
prudence, and to facilitate the curative management of certain
obscure diseases of the head. Thus far he was di•posed to look
into phrenology, and though aware of the crude and imperf~t
condition of its doctrines, and the arbitrary character of many of
its dogmas, still he hoped that as it should be studied and impro-
ved, valuable contributions to our stock of knowledge might be
the result. An expression of these views, has identified him
rwminally with one or more phrenologieal societies, abroad as
well as at home; a"
nd he had consented thereto, that he might
learn whatever truth might be discovered, which could be useful
in his profession. His relation, however, was purely nominal,
for he nenr found either leisure or inclination to attend a meeting
on the subject, nor ever thought it needful even to acknowledge in
any \VIly, the compliment conferred by those phrenological socie-
ties who have elected him a corresponding member. ~,.
Some months since, ho_wever, he was led to consider the subject
for the first time, in its moral aspect, with the view of writing a
paper, which he had been invited to prepare for one of the "re-
views," vindicating Phrenology from the charge allegeol by its
enemies, that it "savoured of materialism." Having thus been
constrained to iook into Gall, Spurzheim, and others, with this
object in view, and thus brought to study books, into which before
he had only glanced by occasional reference, he was surprised to
find that all the evidence these works afforded was just that which
he did not want, and which until now, though often rallied on
the subject, he had not believed. He was, therefore, obliged to
decline preparing the proposed paper, and resolved to leave the
vindication of phrenology to others. Indeed, he then resolved to
abstain from the subject wholly, until it could be vindicated by
somebody, or until he could cultivate it in works written by other
than infidels.
Soon after this resolution was formed, it was confirmed by the
following circumstance. A friend of the author, himself a phre·
nologist, confesaed that his religious convictions had been shaken,
and a most hazardous and deplorable species of scepticism. had
supervened. Being somewhat shocked at this unexpected dis-
closure, and led to remonstrate against what was truly regarded
as <1 calamity, it was soon manifested by unequivocal evidence,
that a somewhat ardent cultivation of phrenology, was the direct
Jigitized 'YGoogle
\
PUP.ACE.
and obvious eauee. And notwithatandiug the writer had become
fully penuaded of the infidelity of both Gall and Spurzheim, and
~ often seen and heard the charge of materialism brought
against the science by ita enemiea, he had never before had \he
aubject brought home to hie Aeart.
Almost aimultaneoualy with this event, the attention of the au·
thor was directed to the work of Dr. Brigham under notice, and
the convictiona ·of the nature and tendency of phrenology, to
which hie mind had arrived, he need scarcely say, were greatly
strengthened by ita perusal. That the direct and legitimate ten-
dency of phrenology and craniology ie to neology and eaaential
atheism, appeared to be demonstrated in the caee of Dr. Brigham
and his book, and the author felt that the evidence here furniehed
must be irresistible to every candid mind. Be hu little doubt,
that ~ltitudea like himself, have been beguiled by the plausible
aspect of the system, anatomically considered, irreapective of ita
moral tendency. And now that it is exemplified, as in the in-
stance before us, that the cultivation ofthis subject leade to CO&I'II&
infidelity and irreligion, it appears to be the dictate of duty that
all auch should abjure their adhesion, or even connivance at the
aubjeet. And even thoee who have regarded thia apeciea ol
philosophy as a harmleu humbug, impotent for good or evil; a
mere puerile speculation, which might be innocently indulged hy
children and fools, may diaeover their error In the light which
thia work throws upon the subject, by ita melancholy elfeet upon
ita author.
Aa the following pages are deaigaed u a reply to the work of
Dr. Brigham, though in the form of a review, it hu been thought
neceuary to indulge in some degree of amplification on two 01'
three importantpointe. The prominence given in Dr. Brigham's
book to the "religious eentiment," and upon which ipia fatu.,
the whole volume ia baaed, has called for a more free and fuU
criticism, than it would otherwise be entitled to. And the extent
of hie chapter on "~of religimt," &~ainat which Dr. B. hM
put forth all his strength, together with the importance of the
subject, has required a more theological examination of that
topic, than under other circumatances would be expected from a
medical man, while the unphiloaophical and miachievous doc-
wines in relation to the nature and cauaee of iftlatritJ, with whicb
10 PREFACE.
the "observations" of Dr."B. abound, have seemed to demand a
somewhat extended notice of this whole subject. The hints
which are introduced with reference to the management ofin~ane
persons, although they may be somewhat novel to many, are the
result of no small share of diligent investigation of the subject,
and some conaidernble practical experience in the trentment of
diseases of the brain. Whether the theory of insanity, and the
curative agencies deduced therefi-om, which are here submitted,
will me~<t the favor of his profes1ional brethren or not, the author
has full confidence that practical men will eatimnte them for what
they are worth. He trusts, however, that he has fully succeeded
in vindicating religion from the charge of being the cause of in-
sanity, and this is the important point at which he aims; nor, in
what he has said on this whole 1ubject, has ho introduced a single
remark which is not designedly tributary to this primary ~ject.
No one can candidly peruse the obPervations of Dr. Brigham,
without becoming lamentably assured, not only that he has fallen
into the mysticism of infidel philosophy, but it is equally clear
that his scepticism has been recently acquired, and that he ia
wholly indebted for his present "bad eminence," to his reception
apd cultivation of the science of phrenology. A remnant of the
"old leaven" still lingers in his mind, and though he bas left the
vantage ground of truth, yet be retains sufficient respect for cer-
tain correct principles, to p·revent his discovering nom what a
height, and into what a depth be ha1 fallen. Would that be might
pause, before the last ray of "light that is in him becomes dark·
ness!" May the writer add, without presumption and without
oft"ence, would to God that this reply to his book, might be instru•
mental in discovering to .himself the fearful havoc upon his prin-
ciples which phrenology bas wrought, and lead him to escnpe the
withering influence which has well nigh. overwhelmed hia
aoul.
With such feeling•, these pagee are committed to the press, and
the humble hope is indulged, that they may be u1eful to the rising
seneration; and should they " pluck some brand out of the burn·
ing," or rescue one victim out of the devouring jaws.of phreno.
logy, infidelity, and irreligion, this efFort will neverprove a source
of re~ret, whatever fate mar be awarded to
THE AUTHOR,
--~~~ -----
-~
PHRENOLOGY
KNOWN BY ITS FRUITS.
" Observations on the Influence of Religion upon tla:
Health and Physical Welfare of :Mankind. By
Amariah Brigham, Jf. D. Boston : Marsh,
Capen & Lyon. 1835."
Suca being the title page of the work, which
has elicited the following pages, the reader will
perceive that, as its name imports, the book is of
a compound nature, being professedly both scien-
tific and religious. It is on this account, that our
;eriticisms must necessarily partake of the same
11 r- medico-t~~-~!~ic~L~!!.~Et-~~~r. And as we have
cno§entlie form and style of a review, for conve-
pience and greater brevity, we must be indulged
with a series of preliminary observations, without
2
14 REVIBW OP Dlt. BRIGILUI.
being accused of introducing irrelevant topics, or
being justly chargeable with circumlocution,
since the design of this exordium is so obvious.
We wish to glance at the whole " order" of]Jieudo-
religi<nu writers, which includes a diversity of
"genera anc1 species," with a view that Dr.
Brigham's book may be classified by the reader
according to its merits; and we do this because
the important bearings of the subjects upon which
he treat~t will not be so apparent, if it be viewed
abstractly from kindred publications.
The Divine authority of the Holy Bible, and
the truth of that system of Religion, denominated
Christianity, which is therein revealed, have been
so often demonstrated by the presentation of the
evidences and proofs which accompany both the
one and the other, that he who avows his infidelity,
at the present day, is justly regarded as proclaim-
ing his deficiency either of candor or intelligence.
And that such estimate of scepticism on these
subjects, is neither uncharitable nor unmerited,
receives confirmation from the well known fact,
that very many of the most learned and able
among the enemies of the truth, have embraced
Christianity, and espoused the cause of the Bible,
so soon as their intelligence and candor permitted
a sober examination of these important subjects.
They had previously rejected the Scriptures,
without having investigated their merits, and, in
many instances, without having read the sacred
.
..
REVIEW O:V DR. BRIGHAM. 16
volu.me; and their knowledge of our holy religion
having be(m derived from the writings and testi-
monies of its enemies, they were necessarily igno-
rant of its true nature, and blind alike to its claims
and its authority•
.These example~ have been so numerous in
every age, that the enemies of the truth have, for
the most part, despaired of making proselytes,
except by the art of depreciating or concealing
the sacred volume; and hence, the propagators
of every species of false religion, as well as the
advocates of irreligion, have expended all their
ingenuity in the eflort to extinguish or obscure this
"lamp of life." Priestcraft, when enlisted in an
unhallowed conspiracy against the truth, has
chosen for its motto, the convenient·maxim, that
Cl ignorance is the mother of devotion," and hence
labored to close the volume of inspi.ration from
vulgar eyes, and claimed the book of God, de-
signed by Him to be the common property of all,
as the sole in~eritance of their own order-arro-
gating the exclusive proprietorship both of its
possession .and interpretation. Other enemies
hav.e more plausibly, yet with equally hostile and
pernicious designs, eorrupted and falsified the
contents ~f the "Book of Books;" and by new
and unauthorized translations, forced interpreta-
tions, and pretended improvements, ha,ve grossly
and wi(ntonly perverted the sacred text, and thus
conformed the revelation of Jehovah to their own
16 REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM.
creeds and dogmas. These corrupted Scriptures,
they liberally consent, may be distributed and
read by all, and they claim for these the same
authority as though they bad the seal of genuine-
ness and authenticity which the unadulterated
" word of God " bears on its front, the impress
of the Holy Ghost.
But while such are the devices of those who
claim to be religipnists, and yet are the enemies
of the truth, there are those who seek, by mis-
representation of the sacred volume-by denying
the truth of its chronology-by questioning the
facts of its history-by declaiming against its
miracles and mysteries-and by the force of sar-
casm and ridicule, to cast it into utter contempt
and abhorrence, and they thus hope to inculcate
absolute irreligion, and teach men to despise the
Bible and the God of the Bible. These, however,
though the most virulent, are nevertheless the
least dangerous of all the foes of the truth, for
their very deformity renders them im~apable of
extensive mischief. Every semblance of argu-
ment which their ablest champions have ever pro-
.duced, and every vestige of their sophistry and
and false philosophy, have been fully and unan-
swerably met and refuted, and all their weapons
have been thus made to recoil upon their own
heads, by the contributions of those, whose sancti-
fied learning has been consecrated to the vindica·
tion of the truth.
----- . -~------
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 17
So signal has been the defeat, so utter the over-
throw of the mightiest among the ranks of infi-
delity, during the last and present century, and
so multiplied are the trophies of victory which en-
lightened philosophy, and the discoveries of sci-
ence, have furnished over the enemies ofthe Chris-
tian revelation, that few can be found in any
country, who make pretensions to real learning,
and yet have the temerity to proclaim themselves
the advocates ofopen and avowed infidelity. But
we are not thence to infer that there is less dispo-
sition to oppose the truth of God, or that the rejec-
ters of Divine revelation have abandoned their
hostility to Christianity. If such inference should
be drawn, it would be erroneous indeed, since
facts, deplorable facts, in our own and other coun-
tries, alas, too visibly demonstrate the con-
trary.
The infidelity of the hca.rt, is one of the cha-
racteristics of fallen human nature, and it often
lingers here, after it has been driven from the
head by the force oftruth, and clamors most loudly
when thus imprisoned. Indeed, in this fact, so
clearly and pathetically taught by the pen of in-
spiration, and so universally felt and seen in out
experience and observation, we have an a.rgumen-
tum ad Jwminem, in favor of the truth of Divine
Revelation, which is and must be forever unan-
' swerable ; and it is no marvel that so many have
2•
18 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
been thus constrained to bow to the majesty of
truth, upon whom other and even potent means
had been employed in vain. But alas! in a mul-
titude of instances, those who cannot resist the
external and internal evidences of Christianity,
as a system, nor gainsay the array of logical and
learned argumentation with which its enemies
have been confounded by the wise and g.ood, are
nevertheless impelled by the infidelity of the
heart, to enter upo.n. a warfare against some of the
distinguishi'!Jg 4nd essential features of the system,
either singly or together, while disavowing any
hostility to the sy~tem itself.
These who denominate themselves rational,
philosophical, or liberal Christians, are by far the
most dangero~s, and most successful opposers of
the truth. They profess respect, and even reve-
rence for the Bible, and denominate it Holy ; and
in all their religious nomenclature, but little vari-
ation from the ordinary language of orthodoxy can
be detected by a superficial observer, while they
nevertheless utterly reject the doctrine of Divine
inspiration. They speak of " our Savior and
blessed Lord," though they disbelieve and deny
his Divinity, holding pim to have been either "a
man, a mere man, a good man, a super-human, an
angelic, or super-angelic being," or perhaps a
" greater than Moses, but less than God," They
even discourse upon the efficacy of his " suffer·
ings and death," and the "value of his blood,'•
RBVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 19
while at the same time they deny his " vicarious
sacrifice," and reject the scriptural doctrine of
the " atonement for sin." Such will even dwell
upon the "evangelical doctrine of regeneration,"
and sanctification, in Scripture language, while in
their philosophy they wholly reject the doctrine
of " Divine influence," and believe in a religion
without spirituality, and will employ their sophis-
try, and even ridicule, against all claims to expe-
rimental knowledge of the agency of the Holy
Ghost-and yet all the while zealously contend
for liberal Christianity-and so far from avowing
infidelity, or consenting to be ranked among scep-
tics and unbelievers, they maintain themselves to
be true believers, and genuine Christians. In-
deed many of them discourse logically and learn-
edly upon the "folly of scepticism, the madness
and danger of infidelity."
That there are many such who are self-de-
ceived, and while claiming to be Christians, real1y
believe themselves to be such, may be readily
Mmitted, for there are, doubtless, many such who
possess too much of honor, integrity, and charac-
ter, to allow the supposition, that they would vo-
luntarily deceive others, or designedly practise
imposture. It is not our. purpose or province to
make inquisition of motive, since to assume !!0
high a prerogative is alike foreign to our inclina-
tion and design. But sincerity in error, does nvt
transform error into truth ; nor on the presump-
20 REY.JBW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
tion, if we dare indulge it, that all of this class of
religionists have been, and are living "in all
good conscience before God unto this day;" and
that such have " verily thought they were doing
God service"-yet even this presumption would
by no means "change the truth of God into a lie,"
nor in the least diminish the dangerous and mis-
chievous nature of their errors, especially if those
errors be fundamental. It is true, if such were
the fact, and it shall so appear to the Searcher of
Hearts, their errors may not render them criminal
in His sight, nor may absolute guilt be predicated
of their heresy, however great or flagrant; yet,
nevertheless, the baneful influence, and pernicious
tendency of their heretical opinions upon others,
are not the less to be deprecated by the cause of
truth.
Indeed, nothing can be more obvious than that
while the cardinal and essential features of Chris-
tianity, and the great and fundamental truths of
Revelation, are rejected, impugned, or obscured ;
the more of the semblance o£ truth such a system
of error retains, the more it is to be deprecated.
This is the device of the grand adversary ofsouls,
for we read of '' false J?rophets and false Christa,
who perform many wonders, and deceive, ifit
were pot~sible, the very elect ;" and the apostle
affirms, that " Satan is transformed into an angel
of light" to deceive and betray. And by similar
authority we are distinctly taught, that it is possi-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 91
ble for men in the world, and in the Christian
church, to "seem to be religious," and only 1eem
to be so, while "deceiving their own hearts;" for
"there is a way that 1eemeth right unto a man, but
the end thereof are the ways of death." Hen<..-e,
without discussing, much less deciding, the merits
of this or that species of heresy, we are constrain-
ed to believe, that error is more mischievous and
dangerous to the souls of men, when clad in the
habiliments of truth ; and the more the enemies
of Christianity assume the resemblance of true
religion, the more they are to be dreaded and
avoided.
The publication of books, emanating from
known and acknowledged infidels, and professedly
hostile to the Bible, and the God of the Bible,
need not occasion apprehensions, or awaken
anxiety among the friends of Christianity, for the
truth of God has little to fear from the open as-
saults of its enemies, as the history of the past
abundantly proves. Hence, such issues from the
modern press are exceedingly rare, and for the
most part do but little mischief, and are soon for-
gotten. The maxim of the prince of infidels was,
" Conceal your march r' and thus only have kind-
red spirits, ever since, founq any measure of suc-
cess. They who have not discovered this feature
in the tactics of the party, who, in any place, are
laboring to overthrow Christianity, must, indeed,
have been careless observers. Infidels know that
22 REVIEW OF DB. BRIGHAM.
all history and experience- have shown, that an
avowal of their principles and designs will be ne-
cessarily fatal to their influence in any commu-
nity. Hence, hypocrisy, deep, dark, and cru~l
hypocrisy, is indispensable to success in making
proselytes to any modification which infidelity has
ever assumed, and he who can most effectually
"conceal hi3 march," is regarded as the best
skilled in the science, the most valuable advocate
of their cause.
These remarks are designed to direct the reader
to the fact', that we are not to look for the enemies
of the truth, who are the most dangerous and
mischievous, in the army of atheists, deists, and
sceptics, who proclaim their own folly, and glory
in their shame. There are n1any such, who with
their "colors flying," impiously mouth the hea-
vens with their blasphemies against the Bible, and
the God of the Bible, and openly celebrate their
orgies under circumstances of enormity, and with
deeds of guilt and infamy, "enough to make the
cheek of darkness pale!" These depraved and
fallen spirits are, however, among the most im-
potent of all the foes of truth and virtue, since
~he naked deformities of their principles and prac-
tice disgust by their very loathsomeness.
Neither are the forms of infidelity, denominated
Atheism and Deism, to be-regarded a:s the most
corrupting and dangerous to the· virtue of the
community, since the rising generation are, for
REVf&W· OF :DR. BILIGBA.M. 28
the most part, protected from these extremes, by
that instinctive horror, which is happily the result
ofalmost any share of Christian education. Even
when we find such unbelievers, as is sometimes
the case, without those hideous enormities upon
mota.ls and virtue, by which others of the party
are distinguished, still the denial of the existence
of God, and thf': utter rejection of the Holy Scrip-
tures, is a "great gulf," into which no man steps
11t a single stride.
But while the transition from an historical faith
in the truth of Christianity, to an open-avowal of
dark and cheerless infidelity is so great that no
man suddenly makes it; and while there is truly
a "great gulf" between those two distant points,
yet there are a number of steps which imper-
ceptibly but surely lead across and downward
from the vantage ground of truth, into fatal and
ruinous heresy. All who have been converted to
infidelity have been led. by these steps, most of
them unconsciously ; for had they known whither
·they were bound before they were shrouded in
the bewildering mazes of scepticism, shuddering
at the enormities to which custom has now re-
conciled them, they had torn themselves away
from the snare. The eqj;;hantment of " free
inquiry," the. bait of" knowledge," the charms
of "metaphysics," the witchery of vain "phi-
losophy'' the mysticism of" phrenology and cra-
niology," or some other of the "golden balls''
24 REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM.
thrown in theirway, have led them successively to
·hesitate, to speculate, to doubt, to ridicule, and to
scoff. Or, what is more probably and more fre-
quently the case, they have become spell-bound in
the gaudydecorations of"rational Christianity," or
"Mtural religion," or perhaps the "liberals" and
"utilitarians" of the day, have entangled them in
the net ofsubtlety and mysticism,which they so in-
geniously and adroitly weave for themselves and
others. Thus led to doubt, and prepared even
for the denial of the great essentials of Christiani-
ty, ingeniously made to appear " irrational, unphi-
losophical, or illiberal," and taught to try inspi-
ration at the bar of their own reason, and measure
Almighty wisdom by the standard of the human
intellect, the rejection of the truth of God, and the
substitution of the dogmas of men, becomes both
natural and easy. Hence, when the minds of
men are by such discipline and mental training
led away from the truth distinctively, they are
like a "wave of the sea driven by the winds and
lost." All, all becomes mystery and uncertainty
whenthe darkness oftheir mentalvision "obscures
the pole, rejects the compass, disdains the chart,"
and, like the maniac crew of the phantom ship,
they and their" ratioQ.al philosophy," are soon lost
in the ocean, and a fatal moral shipwreck closes
the terrific scene. ·
Error, like vice, is J'apidly progressive ; " its
march is ever onward, and its tremendous ten•
Jogotized 'YGoogle
._,__ · -- ~ ·- - -· - - -
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGILL'\r. 26
dency is to accumulation/' lliustrations of this
sentiment are seen on every hand, and in no
instance more visibly than in the history of
religious defection. All the world have heard
of the concession of the great Dr. Priestly, who
said, in reply to an inquiry as to what were his
present religious views, proposed by one who had ·
witnessed and deplored his downward progress,
after he had once renounced the truth: " Once "
said he, " I was a Trinitarian, then I became an
Arian, next a Socinian, but with increasing light,
I have become a Humanitarian, and though this is
where I now stand, yet I know not where I shall
be soon!" by which he candidly admitted what his
experience had proved, that he had no fixed prin-
ciple of religious belief, no standard offaith at all
satisfactory or conclusive, even in relation to the
great fundamental doctrine of the character of the
Lord Jesus Christ. And in America, one of the
most distinguished Atheists of modern times, by
having successively followed the steps of Priestly
so far as he is admitted to have descended the lad-
der, has been led to take still other steps down-
wards: universalism first, then deism in its re-
finement, and subsequently in its vulgarity; and
at present he is a public champion of atheism, in
all the darkness and blackness of its morals ; and
lingers on the shores of time, a revolting picture
of one "treasuring up wrath against the day of
wrath." ·
3
26 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
Such examples of the downward tendency of
religious error should teach us the infinite danger
of being "driven about by every wind of doc-
trine;" and as a wrong habit of thinking may be
readily acquired, and as this will infallibly lead
to a wrong habit of acting, equally impercepti-
ble in its approach and difficult to conquer, when
once acquired, the young and rising generation
should be scrupulously guarded and protected
from those "evil communications which corrupt
good manners" and good morals too. ·Erroneous
opinions will necessarily result in erroneous prac-
tice, correspondent to the measure of error those
opinions embrace ; and as the liberty of the press,
which is our glorious inheritance, by its licentious
abuse, affords such infinite facilities for the pro-
pagation of erroneous opinions, it is important to
the well-being of the community, and essential to
the public safety, that every modific~tion of re-
ligious error emanating from the ever prolific
press, should be promptly followed by an appro-
priate antidote. For unless the friends of truth,
of virtue, and religion, exercise the utmost vigi-
lance over the current literature of the day, the
fountains of popular knowledge may be poisoned
with the corrupting leaven of infidelity and irreli-
ligion. And if this can be done to the extent
which the open and secret enemies of Christianity
are laboring to effect, the nation and the wotld
will feel the withering influence of the unhallowed
deed.
llgiliZ~!d ,vGoogle
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM, 27
The maxim, that " error of opinion may be to-
lerated, while reason is left free to combat it,"
imposes ·by its very justice, a solemn and im-
perious obligation u~n the friends of truth to re-
new and perpetuate the employment of " reason"
in the " combat," co-extensively with the " tole-
ration." Unless this be done, intolerance itself
would be a lesser evil than the toleration of error,
when that error involves the brightest hopes, the
dearest interests, and the everlasting destinies of
men. But if the defensive warfare of reason
against error be diligently and faithfully maintain-
ed, there never has been, there never need be, one
anxious apprehension for the result, for " truth is
mighty, and will prevail." The pulpit and the
press should never cease to repeat the voice of
warning against "walking in the counsel of the
ungodly, or standing in the way of sinners, or sit-
ting in the seat of the scornful."
In the exercise of the vigilance which is called
for in the present aspect of our country especially,
American patriots and Christians will find that the
most demoralizing and mischievous publications
of the day, are those which aim to sap the foun-
dations ofthe sacred edifice of Christianity, under
the garb of pseudo-philanthropy and fitlse philo-
sophy. Some ofthese conspirators are professedly
very religious, and kindly propose to improve upon
the "oracles of God," nmplify the doctrines and
duties taught us by inspiration, and conform the
28 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM,
Christian system throughout, to the present ad-
vanced age oflight, and refinement, and educa-
tion. They seem to allege, that the instructions
of Christ and his apostles, though highly valuable
and useful in times ofcomparative ignorance and
barbarism, are altogether too antiquated for the
present improved and elevated intellectual con-
dition ofour species, and hence their philanthropy
and philosophy alike prompt them to innovate
and reform. They honor and approve of the
Christian religion, and are only hiboring to purify
it ofall exceptionable features, and make it what
it ought to be, a very paragon ofperfection. We
are not, therefore, by any means to rank them
among the enemies of the truth, for they are
the friends and advocates for the system, and only
wish to refine it, and benevolently bring their
philosophy to this desirable and plausible work.
That an extensive and simultaneous combina-
tion now exists, both in Europe and America, for
the purpose of subverting Christianity, and over-
throwing the truthofGod, needs no other evidence
than the fact every where visible, of the employ-·
ment ofthe public press, for the alleged purpose of
improving 'the doctrines of our holy religion, and
perfectingwhath1spiration has pronouncedalready
"perfect." The Bible is not only complained of
as erroneous and defective, but it has been pro,.
nounced so exceptionable in many of its parts,
that new versions are projected and absolutely
ized by Google
ltEVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 29
making, and this too not by enemies, but friends
of the Bible, who benevolently desire to amend
"the words of God," out of pure friendship
for His truth. Books and pamphlets, without
number, are deluging the land, written by pro-
fessed Christians too, for the purpose of correct-
ing errors in the theology and ethics, which the
world of scholars and divines have learned from
the bible, but must be now abandoned and
abjured, because, as they tell us, enlightened
philosophy, and improving science, render them
no longer worthy of veneration. And such are
the multiplied and multifarious improvements
which have been proposed and recommended for
the sacred edifice of Christianity, by the learned
men of our own and foreign countries, sustained
by an ostentatious exhibition ofHebrew, Chaldaic,
Greek, and Anglo-Saxon learning, that if all of
them could be embodied together, instead of an
harmonious system of symmetrical proportions,
worthy of its Divine Author, their Christianity
would be a type of old chaos, more confounding
than the confusion of tongues at the building of
Babel, more bewildering than the mazes of infi-
delity itself.
Perhaps no one event among the novel disco-
veries of modern times, is more plausible, subtle,
and dangerous, than the introduction of the
science of phrenology. Introdqced to the world
by truly learned and deservedlyeminent men, pro-
3•
30 REVIEW OF DR. BRIOHA.M.
fessing to be based upon the Baconian philosophy
of induction, claiming the discovery of a multi-
tude of new and important facts, which are cal-
culated to enlighten mankind upon the abstruse
philosophy of mind, and arrayed in all the attrac-
tions which genius, eloquence, and literature,
combine to furnish, it is not to be wondered at,
that a system thus fortified, should resist the as-
saults of dogmatism and the sneers of ridicule,
which have been for the most part the only
weapons employed against it. Hence the be-
lievers in the doctrines ofphrenology have become
a great multitude, which no man can number,
although there are still comparatively few who
have studied the science, and a still smaller
number who have sufficiently cultivated it to
become fully acquainted with its nature and ten-
dencies. It is only very lately, that in this coun-
try, the subject has gained the public attention,
and the immensely deleterious and demoralizing
influence it is calculated to exert upon the public
mind and character, is not yet discerned, or ap-
preciated.
The truth is, it ought to be known and felt,
that phrenology is not that indifferent subject
of speculation, which may be regarded utterly
impotent fi>r good or ill, as it has been viewed by
many; nor is it that insignificant and contemptible
conceit, which ca.n be annihilated by laughter, or
the sneer of sarcasm. It bas assumed the form
REVmW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 31
of science, the name of philosophy, and has
gained upori public credulity, and secured the
allegiance ofmany wise and good men, who have
overlooked its ~oral aspect, or misapprehended
its tendency and bearing in relation to the sacred
edifice of Christianity. However ingeniously the
hook of infidelity has been baited by Gall, and
gilded by Spurzheim, and however adroitly other
advocates of the science may attempt its vindica-
tion, the true character and tendency, if not the
original design of this whole phrenological and
craniological system, is by recent events becom-
ing disclosed. And this exposure, philanthropists
and Christians are imperiously called upon to
make known by early and combined exertions, so
that our country and the world may l;le protected
from the mischiefs which the prevalence of this
moral heresy may otherwise inflict.
We need not detain the reader, even by alluding
to the numerous examples and forms in which
modem writers, and particularly phrenologists
and physicians, are attempting to enlighten the
public, upon the subject of Christianity, while
their works betray either absolute ignorance of
their chosen theme, or the secret, though deadly
hostility they bear to its distinctive characteris-
tics. It will be sufficient for our purpose to select
one of this class, by no means the most attractive
or able, yetcalculated by its plausibility and guile,
to mislead the unwary, and under the mask of
32 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM,
religion and science, to inculcate both irreligion
and barbarism. And we make the selection
moreover, mainly because it is an example of
what false philosophy, such as phrenology is pro-
pagating, has both the disposition and the power
to,effect.
The work to which we refer, is entitled, " Olr
servations on the Influence ofReligion upon the Health
and Pl,ysical Welfare of Mankind, by Amariah
Brigham, M.D." It was published at Boston
during the last year, and the author is a respect-
able physician ofHartford, Conn. He had become
known to the public by a smaller volume on "the
Influence of Mental Cultivation and Mental Ex-
citement upon Health," published a short time
before. In that earlier effort of his mind, with a
great deal of good sense, and sound practical
truth upon the subject of physical education, there
is much false philosophy and perverted phrenolo-
gy, giving evidence that the author is more fami-
liar with Gall and Spurzheim than with the book
of nature, and demonstrating that he has more re-
verence for their productions, than he has for the
Bible. By what he calls the " freedom and inde-
pendence" of his remarks upon the" mental ex-
citement occasioned by the number of ch?trches, re-
ligious meetings, and Sunday schools," alleging these
among the causes tending to produce insanity, by
promoting " excessive action of the brain !" he
had broadly intimated what were his opinions on
REVmW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 33
these subjects, and what would be his ulterior de-
sign, should be deem it practicable or expedient
to prosecute it farther. Indeed, there was so much
in that volume indicative of the scepticism of the
author's mind, that it required little discernment
to discover that its publication was but the pioneer
of a still farther" developement," ofless equivo-
cal character. Hence, those who read that book
were not surprised to learn that the doctor had is-
sued another work ; nor were they at a loss to
predict its true character, especially when its title
avowed, that " Religion, and its Influence upon
Health," was to be the subject of his "observa-
tions.'' In short, the former book prepared the
way for the latter, and this has fully confirmed
the forebodings of those who had anticipated its
dangerous and mischievous tendency.
As a medical man, it is certainly within the
author's legitimate province, to enlighten his fel-
low-citizens and the world upon the subject ofthe
puhlic health. As one of its guardians, his obliga-
tions to society, by virtue of this relation, are com-
mensurate with his ability, and so far as acquaint-
ance with his profession qualifies him for this task,
we are not inclined to question his pretensions.
Indeed, witl;a the author we have no quarrel, since
he is known to us only through his writings, and
from these we judge him to be a man of intelli-
gence and education, possessing a mind cultivated
by reading and travel ; of ardent temperament, a
84 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
vivid imagination, and no small boldness and
originality of thought, and but for his ultra phreno-
logical views, by which his mind has been bewil-
dered, we should suppose him to be capable of
high intellectual effort, if he had been trained
under better auspices.
Having formed this estimate of Dr. B., from all
the data in our power, we cannot possibly feel to-
ward him, personally, any other than, amicable
and respectful sentiments. Yet, without impeach-
ing either his intelligence or integrity, much less
impugning his motives, which are beyond our
scrutiny, it is with his book which we have to
do, and as this is public property, neither he nor
his admirers have any just ground of complaint,
that we should frankly aver, that while our
" health" might be safely entrusted to his profes-
sional skill, we could not consent to commit our
" Religion" to his keeping.
Indeed he allows in his preface, that he lacks
both "learning and leisure," for the important
and extensive subject of which he treats, and pro-
fesses to have been urged to_
undertake it under
these disadvantages, by its "practical utility,"
and the dearth of information on this topic. But
though he gives evidence ip his book of his lack
in these respects, yet a much greater deficiency
is still more apparent. His "learning and lei-
sure," however limited, are, doubtless, fully ade•
quate to the investigation of " anatomy and phy·
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM, 36
siology," and the whole science of health; but
neither of these, in any measure, qualifies him for
the full11nd proper elucidation of the sublime sci-
ence of Religion; and in his case it would seem
that by perverted views of physical science, his
learning, or rather want of learning, has become
an absolute disqualification, of which however we
may again have occasion to remark.
In bespeaking the favor of the reader, in his
preface, he begs him to "study the New Testa-
ment, free from all preconceived opinions, as if it
was a work but just issued from the press!" He
might with as much propriety have reversed his
petition, and desir~d that his book might be read,
"as if it was a work," written many centuries
ago, by "holy men," who "wrote as they were
moved by the Holy Ghost." A compliance on
the part of the reader would not at all be render-
ed more difficult by this change in the order of
priority, though the one and the other are alike
impracticable and absurd. If he mean that his
book should be read beside the New Testament,
and a relative comparison instituted upon their
merits, as though cmterisparibus, a Christianwould
decide that such a request indicates a deg.ree of
impiety, little short of blasphemy. Does he claim
the same authority for the sentiments he incul-
cates, as the inspired volume demands ? And
does be himself read the New Testament with no
more of reverence and veneration, than he feels
•
36 REVIEW OF RD. BRIGHAM.
for h1s own lucubrations? Then is he absolutely
disqualified for estimating that sacred book, where-
in is revealed "Christ crucified, to the Jews a
stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness ;"
and were his demand upon his readers at all fea-
sible, he would inflict upon them a similar dis-
ability.
How amazing is the difference between this
writer, who fails to perceive any distinction be-
tween "matters of science, and those of piety,"
and the language of a late able and scientific wri-
ter, in pursuing an analogous inquiry.~ He warns
his reader against allowing his " conjectures, how-
ever rational, to disturb his religious convictions,"
and admonishes him " carefully to abstain from
the error of confounding the deductions of reason
with the testimony of the inspired writers, nor
ever to allow any part of the authority, or the se-
rious and sacred import that attach to the latter, to
be- extended to the former." And he adds," this
would indeed be a grave fault, and especially so,
if on the strength of even the most reasonable
theory, we are led to bring into question a particle
of that which the text of Scripture, duly interpre-
ted, requires us to believe. Hence we should hold
every thing light and fallacious which countervails,
or which will not readily consist with the sure
words of Christ and his aposdes."
• "Physical theory o( another life."
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 37
No one, on comparing these sentiments with
those ofDr. B., can fail to decide, that their author
writes like a Christian who believes in the high
and paramount aut,ilgrity ofrevelation, and desires
his reader to disdard both him and his speculations
when they conflict with the standard of infallible
truth. Not so, however, with the work before
us; for we are here directed to place the New
Testament and this book on a perfect parity; to
read them both as if"just issued from the press,"
and thus force an analogy where there is no pa-
rallel.
But he next assures us, in this same preface,
that he "entertains a profound respect for tlw rcli-
gi()'IJ,$ sentiment, notwithstanding the absurd forms,
ceremonies and customs with which it has been
connected, and he hopes to render it more produc-
tive of good by exhibiting the evils which some of
these ceremonies and customs have caused man-
kind, and which willcontinue to afflict them unless
they are abandoned."
And now let the reader inquire what is this " re-
ligious sentiment , for which the author " enter-
tertains profound respect," and he will learn that
it is a something" innate in man,"-an "indestruc-
tible sentiment" which is "a part of his nature,"
which he illustrates by affirming, that " no race of
human beings have been known who had not are-
ligion and some form of religious worship." We
are not to suppose then that be feels this "pro-
4
38 llBVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
found respect" for Christianity, else we should
greatly misapprehend his meaning ; for while he
admits that " the religion of Christ is superior to
all others in promoting the physical welfare ofman--
kind," yet he regards Christianity only as another
form or development of the same " religious senti-
ment," which is" innate in man," and common
equally to " the savage and the civilized,'' and ex-
isting among all the pagan and heathen nations of
antiquity, as well as those ofthe present day. This
" religious sentiment," he affirms, has " impelled
men and women to sacrifice themselves, their off-
8pring, their dearest kindred, and driven nations into
the most cruel and destructive wars the world has
ever witnessed ;" and it is this " most powerful
sentiment ofour nature" for which he "entertains
profound respect."
To the existence and universal influence of this
" religious sentiment" he ascribes all " religious
worship, and the diversity of its forms;" and to
this alone he attributes it that men "adore invisi-
ble and superior powers ; it impels them to disco-
ver methods of communicating with them ; to ap-
pease their anger; to seek their forgiveness, and to
obtain their aid and blessing." The inference
plainly deduced therefrom, is that the recognition
of,the Supreme Deity, and our relation to Him, as
well as the duty of prayer and religious homage
which Christianity inculcates, have noother origin
or authority than this " innate, universal and inde-
,,
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 39
structible sentiment." And accordingly we find
him quoting and adopting the language of Dr.
Gall, the father of modem phrenology, descrip-
tive of the idolatries of heathenism, in all their
number and variety, as illustrating and confirm-
ing his views.
From suchgross forms ofreligion, which" pow-
erfully strike the senses," and which the author
says are the only forms which can benefit " sava-
ges and barbarians," he attempts to show that the
pure and spiritual form of Christianity has de-
scended in regular succession by the cultivation
and improvement ofthe" religious sentiment," in
the ratio in which mankind have improved and
progressed in knowledge. Hence, he says, the
religion of the Hebrews was adapted to their in-
telligence, and, for a time, was undoubtedly the
best for them ; and as mankind, at the period of
Christ, had still farther "progressedin knowledge,"
Christianity was substituted for the law or religion
ofMoses, which was not now sufficiently pure, spi-
ritual and ennobling for the times. In the present
" improved condition of mankind" in knowledge,
we must not therefore be shocked at the proposi-
tion, that Christianity should be considered super-
annuate, and be substituted by the.improved reli-
gion of Dr. Brigham•
. The reader is probably aware, that the phrase
u religious sentiment," and the doctrines here ad-
vanced in its explanation and defence, are purely
..
,,g,tized ,vGo'ogle
4:0 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
phrenological; Dr. Gall, the father of the sys-
tem, and Dr. Spurzheim, his pupil, and the elo-
quent advocate of the doctrine, divide the human
brain into thirty-five, or more, compartments, to
each ofwhich they ascribe certain propensities,sen-
timents, and intellectual faculties. The " religious
sentiment" onwhich the author before us buildshis
theory and his book, is that bump or prominence
on the top ofthe head, which Dr. Gall denominates
the "organ oftheosophy," and is called by Spurz-
heim the "organ of veneration."rThe doctrine
of the system is, that men have no ideas on any
subject, but through certain organs in the brain,
Yi(which originate or give birth to them.\ This organ
is that which gives man the idea oe'a God, or at
least of some superior and invisible powers or
beings, and prompts to devotion, constituting man
a worshiping animal. The existence of this
organ, which is the seat of the " religious senti-
ment" phrenologists tell us, proves that religion
is founded in nature, and they generally agree that
it has no other origin. This brief explanation will
serve to show what the author means when he
speaks of the " religious sentiment ;n and the
reader will perceive the legitimate tendency of
such a system. It is not within our province, at
present, to pursue the subject farther than is neces..
sary in the examination of the wqrk under notice.
In order that we may fully discover the claim.s·
of our author, to the supe~or station he assumes
.' i/ l
J /
/
I
REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM. 41
as a great reformer of the " ignorance, ambition
and fanaticism," which he affirms have " marred
the incomparable purity of the Christian religion,"
and " injured the health and physical welfare of
.mankind,'' it is only necessary to examine the
brief exhibit of his creed, which is given in the
"introduction" to his book. The following seems
to be a summary of the articles of religion, to
which Dr. Brigham subscribes.
I. Of God, and the Holy Bwle.
In the language of Dr. Spurzheim, " The Old
and New Testament attribute very different quali-
ties to the Supreme Being,-the God of Israel
was jealous, revengeful and terrible, a God of war !
I the God of the Christians, on the contrary, is love,
benevolence and charity."
..
II. Ofthe Religious Sentiment.
"It is a part of man's nature to believe in gods
of some kind or other, which arises from the reli-
gious sentiment which is innate in man, and is the
most powerful of his sentiments. All religious
worship, and the diversity of its forms, as well as
the innumerable objects of adoration result from
it. From this religious sentiment has successively
proceeded, human sacrifices, circumcision, emas-
culation, flagellation, woundingthe bodybycutting
instruments, anchylosis of joints, austerities, Pe·
nances, monachism, fasting, the Lord's supper,
- 4•
/ ./
.,/
49 RBV!EW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
. baptism, night meetings, camp meetings, protract-
ed meetings, ril'lging of bells, and modem revi-
vals. This innate religious sentiment bas led to
most cruel and destructive wars, bloodshed, muti-
lating the body, exciting the brain, destroying the
mind, and producing insanity, murder, and sui-
cide. This religious sentiment was implanted in
mankind BY THEia CREATOR, and for it Dr. B. en-
tertains profound respect f'
ill. Of Christianity.
" Christ imposed no for'lnl of religious worship
on men,-he established no cercmonie&,-he gave
no creed for all to embrace, ,be did not seek for u1&ity
in for1R8 o/ worship, but only to establish uniform
morality. When a barbarian abolishes of his
own accord polygamy, the mutilation of the body,
castes, slavery, tyranny and fanaticism, these abo-
minations once gone, the barbarian lJecomes a Chris-
tian, and be be a follower of Mohammed, he may
justly call himself a disciple of Jesus. The gos-
pel is to civilize the world, by building up new
opinions among heathen nations, but not by de-
stroying their FTe&ent creeds r•
IV. Of Spirituality.
" The ']Jiritual nature of the Christian religion
is its tendency to strengthen and exercise the mind
of man, his moral and intellectual powers. And
in the phrase, fruits ojthe1
SPIR!T, nothing mperna-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 43
twal umeant, but only the fruiu or natural result~
tf the MIND of man, for God ha.S 110 8Upernatural
dealing• with men r'
These four articles of religion are expressed as
nearly as possible in the precise language of the
author, and the intelligent and candid ·reader will
be constrained to confess, that he is in no respect
misrepresented. ·And although other articles,
equally startling, might easily be prepared from
the materials contained in the "introduction" In
his book, yet we forbear, as these are amply suf-
ficient for our purpose. They will serve to show
the qualifications of the author to the office he as-
sumes, of being a eemor nwrum in religious things,
and explain the nature'of that "calm, simple and ·
pure manner of worship recommended by our
Savior," which the author proposes to restore, as
well as that .. religious sentiment," for which he
" entertains profound respect !"
Nothing can be more manifest than that the
Doctor's creed is a virtual denial of the Bible,
and a rejection of the Christianity inculcated in
that sacred book; and that any disciple of ration-
alism, any deist, or any atheist in the land might
consistently adopt it in gross and in detail. The
God of whom he speaks, is evidently none other
than a figure ofspeech, a mere rhetorical flourish.
His Christ, of whom be says so many favorable
things, compared with other early reformers,
44 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGIUM.
seems to be only a metonyme or personification•
of truth, love, charity, self-denial, &c., virtues
which he says men ought to be taught to worship;
or at most he can be regarded only as another
"human sacrifice," prompted by tbe innate "reli-
gious sentiment," impelling men to "appease the
anger and seek the forgiveness of invisible and
superior powers," for all nations "believe in gods
of some kind or other." And as to the "religious
sentiment" itself, the author means no more than
that wherever he is found, "man is a worship-
ing animal ;"-while his definition of spirituality
would suit the atmosphere of materialism, and
is sufficiently sublimated for that of any shade of
infidelity or irreligion. Indeed, throughout the
whole volume, there is scarcely a single sentiment
advanced, or even an opinion which a man could
not safely adopt, while avowing himself an enemy
of Christianity, or saying in his heart, and with
his tongue, "there is no God." And it is truly
painful to add, that much of the caricature and
ribaldry with which Christianity, and its profes-
sors are treated in parts of this book, would com-
pare with the vulgarity of Tom Paine, or the still
more loathsome profanity of Fanny Wright. See
pages 63, 224, 276, 284, 321, 328, &c.
But we are constrained to add another and still
more serious disqualification to that implied in the
.infidelity of our author, for it is possible for a man
• See page 3"21.
REVIEW OP' DR. BRIGHAM• 46
to write ably and learnedly upon a subject, in
which he has no measure of belief or confidence,
provided he has made himself acquainted with its
nature.· In the pksent case, however, we have
an example of a man, a gentleman, a scholar, and
a physician, undertaking to enlighten the com-
munity upon a subject, in relation to which he
betrays, not merely deficientknowledge, but total,
absolute ignorance. We are aware that this is a
serious charge, and though the articles ofhis creed
amply sustain the allegation, that Dr. B. is utterly
ignorant of the nature of religion, yet, for the sa-
tisfaction of the reader, still farther illustration is
at hand.
Let the title of his book, " Influence of religion
upon the health and physical welfare of mankind,"
be considered in connexion with the whole tfmor
and tendency of the publication. And shall the
reader, form his estimate of "religion," by the
"iniluence" which the author labours to attribute
to it? What then is its " influence" upon the
health aod physical welfare of mankind? If this
book is to be believed, it is " evil, only evil, and
that continually." For among the effects of its
influence," he enumerates almost all "the ills
that flesh is heir to," such as " mutilation of the
body, flagellation, injury to the brain and nervous
system, melancholy, insanity, suicide, and the
destruction of human beings." And are these the
effects ofthe influence ofreligion? They are such
tind 'YGoogle
4:6 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
as this book is designed to exhibit, and none but
such are here dwelt upon. With such views of
religion, the title of the book should have been
essentially different, if its real character was not
designed to be concealed. It should have been
" Observations on the influence of religion in pro-
ducing wara, bloodshed, 1ickness, insanity, and death."
The reader would then have been prepared for the
contents of the volume, by reading its name. But
the author utterly fails in tracing any of the mis-
chiefs, cruelties, or abominations, he describes, to
the " influence of religion;" though he ascribes
them all to the "religious sentiment," for which,
nevertheless, he " entertains profound respect !"
because, as he says, itwas " implanted in man by
his Creator!"
If, however, all this does not fully convict him
of utter and hopeless ignorance of the true nature
of religion, let us examine for a moment his pre-
tensions to a knowledge of the scriptures upon
which he ventures profound and sapient criticism.
Speaking of the character ofAbraham, the father
of the faithful, that venerable patriarch, who was
justly styled "the friend of God!" he says, "In
Abraham, we do not find that nice and lofty sense
of veracity, which distinguishes a state of society
where the point of honor has acquired great in-
fluence." Now had the authOr been at all ac-
quainted with the Bible, he would never have
ha:~:arded his reputation for intelligence and can-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 47
dour by such an assertion. Has he overlooked, in
his historyofAbraham, his hospitality to strangers,
Gen. xviii. ; his generosity to his nephew, ch.
xili..; his uprightness in war, ch. xiv.; his com-
passion towards the sinners of Sodom, ch. xviii. ;
his tenderness towards Hagar and her son, ch.
xxi. ; and his " nice and lofty sense of justice, po-
liteness, and honor, in the transaction recorded
ch. x:xiii. It is plain, that the Doctor must regard
Abraham in the same light as he regards the God
of Abraham, for ofthe Great Supreme, he affirms,
that He is both a "God of war, and a God of
love," which he attempts to sustain by a compa-
rison ofthe Old and New Testaments. Estimating
thus the God of the Bible as a compound ofgood
and evil, it is not to be wondered at that he should
indulge in criminations and censures against His
faithful servants.
But his ignorance is still more apparent in the
remarks . ~n page 17, in relation to the Jews, of
whom he asserts, en masse, that " they were not
a people ofhigh moral endowments, and no indi--
viduals among them ofwhom we have any account, can
properly be referred t~ as examples worthy of all
1m1tation. The reader will perceive from this
single sentence, that the author either measures
the saints of God by a standard of morality high-
er than the ~' law of. the Lord," or be must be ig-
norant of the self-denying spirit of Moses-thedis-
interestedness of Caleb and Joshua-the spotless
48 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
integrity of Samuel and the prophets, and the
righteousness of Zechariah and Elizabeth, to
name no other of the Jewish worthies of sacred
memory, whom be has impugned by his sweep-
ing denunciation.
It were easy to show from the " introduction "
alone, that the author of this book is not only an
unbeliever in religion, because ignorant of its na-
ture, but that be is equally ignorant of the nature
ofman. His first sentence reads thus : " The re-
ligious sentiment appears to be innate in man."
And is this true? How does it " appear?" Haa
a child any idea of religion, or of the being of a
God, until such idea is implanted by some kind of
education, or by the Divine Spirit ? Certainly
not ; no more than he has of inhabited worlds be-
yond the region of the fixed stars.• But he goes
still farther, and adds, that this "religious senti-
ment forms a part of man's nature as truly as be-
nevolence." Here then he maintains.that "bene-
volence is a part of man's nature."t But what
• This, howeve~, is one of the dogmns of phrenology, and the
organ, the preaence of which is indicated by a "bump" on the
top ofthe head, is the source whence _
the " idea of God and reli-
gion " infallibly emanates.
t Certainly; for there is another "bump "on the anterior part of
the skull, called " moral sense " by Gall, and " benevolence " by
Spurzheim; and this organ necessarily generates" benevolence,"
since it is there for the purpose ; and besides, all phrenologi~
agree that "man is naturally good," for this " organ" is found in
the heads of all men, though semetimes its quality is overcome by
opposite sentiments, because ofthe greater development of"de-
truetiveneu " and the like,
RBVmW OP DR. BRIGHAM. 49
says the Bible, that book of books ; without a
knowledge of which, it is presumption either to
write or speak upon the subject of religion' An
inspired apostle, whose knowledge of man's na-
ture was acquired in" the third heaven," describes
the moral state of mankind in this and the like
language : " llater1 of God ; " " without God; "
" without natural affectron, implacable,unmerciful ; "
"enmity agaimt God._" These and multiplied
other testimonies of inspiration might be adduced
to prove the infidelity of the doctrine that either
"benevolence," "religious sentiment," or "any
good thing" dwells in man, or is innate in his na-
ture.• The apostle's melancholy description ofthe
natural state of man would fully accord, however,
with the author's accusations against the " reli-
gious sentiment" of which he speaks, though the
reader will hardly be prepared to believe that
this is "implanted in man by his Creator," nor
can he fail to marvel that such a " sentiment"
should still have the author's "profound respect."
we- need only allude to one more instance in
proof of the author's deplorable ignorance of the
nature of man ; and for this purpose would refer
the reader to the strong affirmation he makes in the
following interrogatory : " Who has not seen the
" Had be affirmed that "atlleism" is innate in man, and consti-
tutes a part of his nature as much as,;••-," he would have
conformed his doctrine to the Bible, however it might have con-
flicted with phrenology.
60 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
lascivious man, the drunkard, the reveller become
chaste and temperate by the exertion of hi& oum
moral powers '1" This question is proposed in a
ludicrous argument he attempts to invalidate the
Scriptural doctrine of the supernatural influence
of the Spirit in regeneration, which he unequivo-
cally denies. In answer to his query, we are con·
strained to assert, and we do so on the authority of
infallible inspiration too, that no man ltas seen it, or
ever will see it. "Can the Ethiopian change his
skin, or the leopard his spots ? then may ye do
good who are accustomed to do evil." This in-
terrogative form, chosen by the prophet, is the
strongest possible affirmation of the negative of
Dr. B.'s position, and is a distiuct and unequi·
vocal declaration, that man cannot " by the exer-
tion of his own moral powers," effect the revolu-
tion in his moral nature and habits, which the au-
thor concedes to result from the religion he gain·
says and rejects.
As then it appears plain from the evidences
thus briefly presented, that the author of the work
before us, is an unbeliever in the strongest sense
of that term, however he may be self-de~eived ;
and it being equally evident that he is profoundly
ignorant of what true religion is, and equally so,
of the character and nature of niap, we think we
have fully made out our charge, that he is utterly
disqualified from treating the subject he has had
the temerity to attempt. He must not complain
REVmW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 51
then at the retribution which will be the reward
of such rashness and presumption, by reason of
the exposure of his mistakes and egregious mis-
representations, which duty to the cause of truth
imperiously demands. And the reader will be
prepared to appreciate the degree of credibility
with which his sentiments and affirmations are
to be received. Indeed we cannot refrain from
offering additional testimony, since the· same la-
mentable deficiency of knowledge is discoverable
on almost every page, and in almost every depart-
ment of his subject. For example, let the reader
notice the statemel)t on page 20. " All great re-
forms in the moral world are the result of long and
previous instruction of the mass of the people;"
whence be argues that no great reform could suc-
ceed unless the world was prepared for it by
"previous cultivation ofthe moral and intellectual
powers..-• Here it is obvious that he builds his
pyramid upon its apex, for the reverse of his pro-
position is the truth, even in the cases he refers to
for its proof. Every reformation this world has
ever seen, has been effected in the face of violent
and persevering opposition, and in general the op-
position has been conducted by those of the higher
classes of society, whose "moral and intellectual
powers " were arrayed against reform. 'Vitness
the great reformations resulting from the labors of
Christ, and Paul, and Luther, and Wesley, and
Wilberforce, and others. So far from the world
62 B.BVIBW OP DL BRIGILUI.
having been prepared by " long and previous in-
struction ofthe mass ofthe people,'' these reform-
ers have succeeded, although called upon to resist
the whole torrent of public opinion. And the al-
lusion he has made to the " temperance reforma-
tion" in our own country, is singularly unfortu•
nate for his purpose, and betrays a most deplora-
ble and inexcueable want ofinformation. He says,
that the" f1iends of the temperance cause would
have toiled in vain half a century before," and at-
.tributes their success to the "improved state ofso-
ciety;" intimating that "longJtnd previous instruc•
tion of the mass ofthe people" bad also preceded
this reform. But, unhappily for his theory, the
converse of this statement is notoriously the fact,
for on the promulgation of the doctrine of total ab-
stinence by the noble spirits who 'Originated this
work, the "mass of the people," by reason oftheir
"long and previous instruction," were at once in
battle array against them. And that eminently
successful philanthropist, the Rev. Dr. Hewitt,
who is a near neighbor of the author, could fur-
nish ample reminiscences from the journal of his
early labors, to annihilate Dr. Brigham and his
theory. That distinguished champion undertook
this mighty reform when the pulpit and the press,
the learning and the ignorance, the theory and the
practice of the nation, with very rare exceptions,
in one mighty phalanx reared a formidable bar-
rier against him. He and his coadjutors, with no
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 63
other weapon than omnipotent truth, went forth
to the battle, and beat down every opposition,
whether " moral or intellectual " which stood in
their way. They found public opinion wrong;
they proclaimed it so in tones of thunder; they
avowed their purpose to change and reform it;
and they have literally "turned the world upside
down." It was the bad state of society, and not.
its "improved condition," which rendered the re-
form necessary, and by reason of which it has
been thus far succE;lssful.
But our author comJDits himselfstill more egre-
giously, for after stoutly maintaining that Boudd-
hisme has improved Brahmanisme in India, as
Protestantism has improved Romanism, byrender-
ing it less intolerant and cruel, he affirms that
Mahomedanism has improved the " religious senti-
ment" of the ferocious Arabs, because, as he
says, the prophet abolished the horrible crimes of
"robbery, assassination, selling their women as
slaves, and burying their daughters alive." Now
had the author acquainted himself with the sub-
ject before he wrote; he would have kn~wn that
these precise abominations are still perpetrated,
and perpetuated among the Mahomedans, without
any evidence of the improvement he names.
But we forbear to pursue the author in the nu-
merous blunders he has committed in the " intro-
duction" to his work, and shall now proceed to re-
mark upon its contents, in the order they are pre-.
6•
64 BBVJBW OP-Dlt. B'BIGILUI.
sented. His fitst chapter is on "Human Sacri-
fices," which he admits are the most deplorable
of all the effects of the "religious 1entiment,"
though they are introduced in illustration of the
" influence of religion upon the health and physi-
cal welfare of mankind.'' The reader will dis
tinctly perceive, that there is not the remotest par-
ticle ofaffinity between " religion" and this " reli-
gious sentiment" of the author, and yet he uses
these terms as perfect synonymes. That there is,
and can be no analogy between them, will appear
manifest from his own definitions.
1. "The religiotu 1entiment is innate in man."
Religion is not innate in man.
2. "The religiom 1entiment is a part of man's
nature."
Religion is no part of man's nature, and is at
war with fallen nature.
3. "The religiow 1entiment prompts· men to wor-
ship god. of some kind or other."
Religion teaches the worship of one living and
true God, and forbid~ the worship of any
other.
4. " The religiotu 1entiment produces t.oarl and
bloodshed, and the dutruction of human be-
ing•."
Religion produces peace on earth and good toill
to men.
A similar contrariety might be exhibited be-
tween every characteristic ascribed by the au-
Jigitized 'YGoogle
B.BVIBW OP DR. BRIGHAM. 64
thor to the religious sentiment, and the distinguish-
ing features of religion, but these are sufficient for
our purpose, which is to prove, that Dr. Brigham
has fallen into this fundamental error of identify-
ing religion and _
the " religious sentiment ;" a
blunder which necessarily vitiates and nullifies
his whole petformance, since . they are, as we
have shown, not only essentially dissimilar, but
are antipodal to each other. The effects attri-
buted by him to the religious sentiment, so far
from being justly chargeable upon religion, are
all the result of the absence of religion. This is
eminently the case with the subject of " human
sacrifices," which is the theme of his first chap-
ter; for these were never authorized or permitted
by true religion, in any period of the world, and
their general discontinuance, of which the author
speaks, is demonstrative evidence against him,
since this has resulted every where among those
nations to whom the gospel has communicated the
light and influence of religion, and they are now
only continued where religion is not known.
The author, however, alternately charges hu-
man sacrifices upon the "religious sentiment,"
and upon religion itself, and this too in the face of
the testimony be himself presents from the Old
Testament, demonstrating, that upon these abomi-
nations the almighty Author of religion denounces
his heaviestjudgments and anathemas. Indeed,
these very quotations are sufficient to prove that
66 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
idolatry, which is, and always was, the height of
irreligion, has been the prolific source of all the.
human sacrifices ever known in the world. These
cruel abominations, as related by the author, and
diligently gathered from the pages of history, for
the purpose, are all of them, without exception,
examples of worship paid to idols, and imaginary
gods, who are unknown to religion, and rejecte<l
by it; however justly they may be charged upon
the fiction of the author's brain, which he calls, in
phrenological language," the religious sentiment,"
and which seems uppermost in all his thoughts.
No farther evidence is desirable to convict him
of the consummate folly of mistaking religion for
this religious sentiment, than is found in the fol-
lowing sentence, p. 34, of his book.
" It is as idle to talk of a nation without reli-
gi<nz., as without love of off~pring,• or any otlu!r
instinctive propensity!"
" The "love of offspring," is the fl'uit of a "bump'' or organ
in the posterior part of d1e head, called by phrenologists, " phi-.
loprogenitiveness," and is regarded in that philos~phy as an "in-
stinctive propensity" truly. And when cases like diose related
by the author arc alleged as objections to the doctrine, diat die
organ of " Destructiveness" should be so developed by organiza,
tion, as to predominate over " philoprogenitivene•••" Dr. Gall
l'eplies, that diia is a proof of "the harmony of die science wid!
nature, for man is C()nju1edlg an 4/ISemhlage of COfltradidionl."
Hence phrenologists repel-the charge of Inconsistency, by show-
ing diat as is man, so must be the " philosophy ofman," a" bundle
of inconsistencies." It will be seen on page 41, that Dr. B. in
B.BVIBW 011' DB.. BRIGHAM. 67
Here, then, we are taught that " religion" is
one "imtinctifJe propemity," and the "love of oft:
spring" is another; while on the same page, the
author records as " human sacrifices" impelled by
religion, that among some heathen nations, pa-
rents, "knowingly and wilfully, go through the
bloody work of slaughtering their own children,
with as little ret¥WT8e as one would kill a lamb or a
chicken!" Here, then, one" instinctive propen·
sity," religion, annihilates the other "instinctive
propensity," "love of oBSpring," and changes it
to the most envenomed hatred of offspring, and
yet be tells us that this murderous instinctive pro-
pensity was " implanted in man by his Creator,"
and says, he feels for it "profound respect." Nay.
be maintains that mankind have been created with
these dispositions, and he zealously argues, that a
religion which imposed these absurd and cruel
rites, and demanded the destruction of millions of
human beings, as sacrifices to idol gods, is greatly
preferable to being left witho~t any religion; and
be adds to the bloody catalogue he has enumera-
ted, " I am ofopinion that all religion~ the world
have ever known have been of use, and they have
common with Spurzbeim and other phrenologists, entertains simi·
Jar views of the nature of the Supreme Being, and repreaenta
Him to be a compound of good and bad propensities, alternately
developed in the history of the world, and be even appeala to the
Old and New Testamenta for his proofs!
68 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
proved injurious only when they have failed to
keep pace with the progress of intelligence." .
But the author, unwittingly as it would seem,
not only maintains the identity of the religious
sentiment with religion, but he regards superstitiun
as synonymous with.both. This precious confes-
sion is made on page 35, where he adopts the sen-
timents of Polybius, in confirmation of .the views
previously alluded to, who declares, that "the re-
public of Rome was sustained by superstition,"
which he defines to be " the opinions entertained
by them about their gods," and which, he says,
was a creed, " contrived for the sake of the popu-
lace." He adds, " if a society could be formed
of wise men only, such a scheme would not bene-
cessary ;-but since the multitude is always giddy
and agitated by illicit desires, wild resentments,
and violent passions, there was no way left of re-
straining them, but by the help of such secret ter-
rors and tragical fictions! It was not, therefore,
without great prudence and foresight, that the an-
cients took care to instil into them thP.se notions o/
the gods, and irifcrnal punishments! which the mo-
derns are now rashly and absurdly endeavoring
to extirpate." It is immediately in connexion with.
this language of Polybius that the author observes,
" I am of opinion that all religions the world has
ever known have been of use!" thus ranking su-
perstition, religion, and the religious sentiment,
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 59
among synonymous terms, and exposing what
other portions of the volume appear designed to
conceal, that religion is, in his estimation, a "con-
trivance for the sake of the populace," useful, it
is true, though accompanied by " secret terrors
and tragical fictions." It is true the author claims
to be a Christian, but infidelity personified could.
desire no more of its willing votary. The Mo-
saic, no less than the Christian religion, held hu-
man sacrifices in abhorrence, and though they
may be justly attributed to the "religious senti-
ment/' which is synonymous with idolatry and ir~
_ religion, yet religion has ever abjured and prohi~
bited them. And the destruction of human life,
to _
which reference is had by the author, as in the
case of the innumerable company of martyrs,
the horrid murders of the inquisition, the 100,000
executions for witchcraft, and the massacre of St.
Bartholomew's day, all of which he charges upon
religion, exhibit.either a shocking perversion ofhis
intellect, or something infinitely worse. For that
all these, and even the 30,000 widows annually
immolated upon the funeral pile of their husbands
in India, should be included under the significant
head of the " influence ofreligion upon the health
and physical welfare of mankind," is an act of
impiety, which in a professed Christian is an
enormity for which we can scarcely find a name.
In the second chapter the author introduces the
, religious rites which mutilate the human body,"
,,g,tized ,vGoogle
--=---~- -·-- ..
60 RBVIBW OF DR. BRIG!LUI.
and he enumerates in his catalogue " circumci-
sion, emasculation, flagellation, wounding the
body by cutting instruments, and anchylosis of
joints by religious ceremonies."
Circumcision, or the sign and seal of the
Abrahamic covenant, an ordinance of Divine ap-
pointment is selected as the first topic of his cri-
ticism, nor does the sacredness of the authority
by which this custom was introduced, shield it
from his assault. This is the only rite justly as-
cribed to religion, for the rest have arisen from the
absence of religion, or what he calls the religious
sentiment. Nevertheless, he affirms that this rite
prevailed befare the time of Abraham, for which
he has no semblance of authority, and he assigns
physical reasons for its origin, alleging that in
warm climates this was resorted to for health and
cleanliness, and thinks it probable that it was not
at first a religious custom.• That he conflicts
with the authority of the Bible is not to be won-
dered at, when he quotes Gibbon, that prince of
infidels, as paramount authority, who says that
"health rather than superstition first invented cir-
cumcision," and by the term superstition, this in-
fidel writer obviously means the identical "reli-
gious sentiment," for which the author pleads, so
that Gibbon contradicts both Dr. Brigham and
the Bible. It would have been well if one or
• Why then does he call it a "religious rite 7"
Jigitized 'YGoogle
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 61
both of these sapient critics bad accounted for the
fact, if circumcision prevailed before among sur-
round-ing nations, for physical reasons, why it was
that on the " self same day" on which the cove-
nant was made between Abraham and his Maker,
this ceremony was performed not only upon him-
self and his son l8bmael, but upon all the men of
his bouse. Why was it that Abraham had lived
to "ninety and nine year1," without having con-
formed to this prevalent custom ; and that his son
of thirteen years of age, and no one of the men
in his bouse had ever been circumcised until that
day, if "health rather than superstition invented
it." It is painful to admit the evident truth, that
both Gibbon and the author have advanced this
sentiment for the self same reason, that they both
designed to discredit the,inspired history. Of the
remaining mutilating rites it is only necessary to
say, that they are all of them the fruits of super-
stition, or the religious sentiment ; but all of them
are directly contrary to true religion, and prohibit-
ed by it. It is idle, therefore, nay more, it is sa-
crilegious triflingto include these among the effects
resulting in whole or in part from the " influence
of religion."
In the introduction to the third chapter, which
embraces " austerities, penances, monachism, and
fasting," the author intimates, that "it is natural
to man, in certain stages of civilization, to believe
the Deity to be a malevoleilt being delighted with
6
62 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
the misery of his creatures," &c. What a delec~
table picture we have here of this religious senti-
ment which is "innate in man," a "part of his
nature," "implanted in man by his Creator," and
deserving "profound respect."
With respect to the austerities and penances of
monachism, religion is not justly chargeable with
them in whole or in part, and with this absolute
disclaimer we may dismiss these with the same
remark contained in the notice of the former
chapter. But in relation to fasting or abstinence,
which is a scriptural duty, and a part of religion
by Divine authority, it may be expected that
something should be said in reply to the gross ca-
ricature drawn by the author. He affirms, that
" it was not till after the death of the Apostles
that fasting was considered an important duty,"
and " that Christ did not authorize fasting from
food," and these assertions are made in the face of
the·plain and unequivocal directions of Christ in
his sermon on the 'mount, where he not only en-
joins fasting, but adds instructions in relation to
the manner of fasting, so as to be acceptable to
God.-Matt. vi. 17, 18. And yet the author de-
clares authoritatively, that the New Testament
does not authorize any other fast than when " na-
ture withdraws the appetite, as the natural result
of sorrow." His lamentable want of information
on the subject of which he writes, must excuse
this among other similar blunders, which abound
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 63
· in every chapter of his book. As regards the ef-
fects of fasting upon health, we have but a single
remark, and it is this, whenever fasting is carried
to the extent of being injurious to health, it has no
semblance of authority from religion, but is
prompted by superstition or the religious senti-
ment.
Thus far our author has chiefly directed his at-
tention to the effects of" the religious sentiment,"
as seen in paganism and heathenism, with only
occasional reference to the ceremonies of any sect
of Christians. In the fourth chapter, however, he
approaches the subject of Christianity distinctive-
ly, by considering "the influence upon health, of
some of the rites, sacraments and ceremonies of
the Christian church." He enumerate·s the seven
sacraments of the Roman Catholic and Greek
churches, but contents himself with a labored cri-
ticism upon "The Lord's Supper and Baptism,"
because these are very generally celebrated in
Christian churches, and we now hear no more of
"the religious sentiment."
Of the Lord's Supper, the author admits that
"there is no objection to it on account ofany inju-
rious effect upon health, when the ceremony is
short, and does not interfere with the usual meals
of the day, and when the brea.d and wine, or what
ever else is used, is of good quality and taken in
small quantity." In this preliminary concession,
e'i.ery thing is granted which the practice of any ·
64 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
sect of Christians in this country, or in the world
requires where the Lord's Supper is celebrated.
1st. The ceremony is short. 2d. It does not in-
terfere with usual meals. 3d. The bread and
wine is of good quality ; and 4th. It is only taken
in small quantity. As with these conditions no
injurious effect upon health is alleged as proba-
ble, or even'possible, we might have expected that
he would have spared any farther animadversions
upon the subject. But instead ofthis, he proceeds
to describe the variety in the ancient and modern
forms of administering this ordinance, and the
author gravely enlightens his readers in the histo-
ry and mystery of the recent petty fanatical dis-
putations among some dozen or more illiterate
zealots and ultraists in the northern and eastern
portion of this country, on the subject of substitu-
ting some other article for wine in the sacrament.
This controversy, to which he attaches immense
importance, attributing it to "many of the clergy
of this country," has been regarded as too insigni-
ficant to call for sober refutation, and the authors
of the stupid and senseless proposition to substi-
tute "tamarind water, molasses and water," and
the like, for the " fruit of the vine" will acquire
more of notoriety and publicity by the notice taken
of them in this book, than they could otherwise
have hoped 'to acquire. We doubt, however,
whether they will be very thankful to the author
for perpetuating a piece offolly, ofwhich the sen-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 66
sible portionof the disputants are already heartily
ashamed.
It would be an unanswerable refutation of all
the author has said on this subject, to allude to the
fact, that notwithstanding the celebration of the
Lord's Supper was shockingly perverted and abu-
sed by the Corinthians, and called forth from the '
apostle the most pointed rebuke, yet no intimation
is given that the ceremony ought to be abandoned,
or might be innocently omitted, in consequence of
its being sus_
ceptible of this abuse. The holy apos-
tle, however, was not a phrenologist, and he did not
know that it would "prove injurious to health and
ought to be abandoned," much less had he learn-
ed, that.this ordinance "derives no support from
the instructions of Christ."
But the author having failed to make out his
case of the injurious effect upon health, produced
by any form ofadministration ofthe Lord's Sut>per,
he nevertheless proceeds to discuss the very rele-
vant subject, whether Christever instituted it; and
having, as he sagely imagines, established the ne-
gative ofthe proposition, he decides excathedra that
it ought to be abandoned. He quotes from the
Evangelists and Robert Barclay, but wholly over-
looks the Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, as
though this was no part of the sacred canon.
Had he read the eleventh chapter of this epistle,
he would have learned the Divine authority for
the institution of this ordinance, which the apostle
6•
66 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
affirms he "received from the Lord," as well as
for its perpetuation to the end of time. And yet
such is the author's ignorance upon the subject
upon which he writes, that he asserts that
the institution "derives no support from the
instructions of Christ,)' though he concedes there
is " a slight command in the words, " Do this in
remembrance ofme." Yet as it is only "a slight
command," and as there is " no authority from
reason for its continuance," he insists it ought to
be abandoned.
Among other objections, the author alleges that
" reflecting and inquiring men see nothing of a
moral or instructive nature in this ceremony."
This information will amaze the unsophisticated
reader who has become at all acquainted with this
sacred subject, even in theory. The institution
of the Lord's Supper is not only a monumental ce-
lebrdtion of the most stupendous event in this
world's history, and an expressive symbol of the
most important doctrine in the moral universe, but
it is likewise a standing and irrefragable evidence
ofthe truth of Christianity, as well as the Divinely
appointed seal ofthe covenant of grace. And yet
the author and his " reflecting and inquiring" bre-
thren "see in it nothing moral or instructive."
But his strongest objection to this ordinance is,
that "it seems to be a kind of worship of Christ
himself, which he never_ enjoined upon all his fol-
lowers." That an infidel or Socinian should take
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 67
this position is perfectly natural, but for a Chris-
tian to present such an objection, is both inconsis-
tent and absurd. But the author has so little ac-
quaintance with the Scriptures, that he affirms that
the" worship of Christ implied in this ceremony,
is inconsistent with his teachings, in which he" al-
ways kept himself<YUt ofsight!" How any man would
hazard his reputation for intelligence, common
sense, or common honesty, by such an idle asser-
tion, with the Bible in his hand, it would puzzle a
Jesuit to determine. Did Christ" keep himselfout
of sight" when he taught his disciples, saying, "I
am the light of the world." "Without me, ye can
do nothing." "1 am Alpha and Omega, the begin-
ning and the ending, the first and the last." " If
ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your
sins.'' "I am the way, the truth and the life."
"Ye will not come unto me that ye might have
life." " I and the Father are one." Are these the
proofs that in the "teachings of Christ he always
kept himself out of sight?" And does the wor-
ship of Christ which is implied in the Lord's Sup-
per, so grievously offend this theological cynic ?
What then does he do with the plain and unequi-
vocal declarations ofScripture on this point? "All
men should honor the Son even as they honor the
Father." "At the name of Jesus every knee shall
bow." " Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to
receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and
strength~ and honor,· and glory, and blessing."
"To Him be glory, both now and forever, amen."
68 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
But we forbear to multiply citations in a case
so plain, and must acknowledge that we are shock·
ed at the temerity which has led the author into
so ridiculous an attitude as this portion of the vo-
lume places him. Quem Dem tJUlt perdere, zm:u.s
dementat. Surely so flagrant misrepresentation and
sophistry as that we have been constrained to ex-
pose, would seem to imply that the author is not
only destitute of any species of information on the
topics he pretends to discuss, but that he must
have been deprived of his reason. If we were to
name the species of insanity under which he la-
bors, we could not call it mono-mania, since this is
not the only topic upon which he appears to be
non compos mentis. We would probably be obliged
to invent a term significant of the fact that he is
demented not on one topic, but on many, and hence
call his malady polymania. He cannot be sus-
pected of religious derangement by any one who
reads his book, unless we adopt his phrenological
exposition of the religious sentiment, and ac~ount
for his symptoms by the prominent " develop-
ments" which depend upon " his organization."
In relation to the ordinance of Baptism, very
nearly similar ground is taken. He first describes
the various modes of its -administration in diffe-
rent periods of the church, and then attempts to
prove that Christ did not enjoin baptism, and this
in the face of the Scripture testimony, part of
which he quotes. He ascribes the baptism of
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 69
Christ by John to the same reason which influ-
enced the circumcision of Timothy, wholly disre-
garding the essentially different reasons assigned
by inspiration. 'fhe command of Christ to go
into all the world, baptizing, &c., he interprets to
mean,giving the converts a new name, but he care-
fully abstains from any allusion to the practice of
the Apostles under that commission, and the mul-
tiplied instances of baptisms recorded in the
Scriptures, in all ofwhich water is explicitly stated
to have been employed, and nothing at all said of
his "new Mme." But it were idle to detain the
reader by any farther notice of such consummate
folly, a refutation of which is not worthy of idiotic
talents.
In his- remarks on the effects of baptism upon
health·
, he maintains that the mode of immersion
is dangerous, especially to the feeble, to infants,
and in cold climates ;-but he does not presume
to urge this objection against the modes of gprink-
ling and pouring, but singles out for his animad-
versions those few cases in which the mode or
circumstances 'TTUJ,y prove injurious to health. He
seems sensible of the imbecility of this portion of
his book, in which he arrives most truly at a lame
and impotent conclusion, and he therefore hastily
winds up the chapter with a flourish about "wash-
ing feet" and "kissing," which is too puerile to
deserve criticism. In this connexion he again
quotes largely from " the excellent Robert Bar-
70 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
clay," whose reasonings he pronounces urian·
swerable. If he had weighed Barclay's reason·
ings in relation to " the gift of the Holy Spirit,"
and his "special influence," he would have found
arguments which remain unanswered, because
they are unanswerable. Barclay rejects only
"the outward and visible signs" of these ordi·
nances, but he zealously contends for the " inward
and spiritual grace," which is the substance of
that which the former only " shadow forth and
symbolize."
But Dr. Brigham utterly repudiates both the
substance and the shadow; denying the "baptism
of the Holy Ghost," and by consequence the figure
divinely appointed to represent it ; rejecting the
anti-type he would annihilate the type, which, ac-
cording to his philosophy, is unmeaning, signify·
ing nothing. Abjuring religion itself, he can have
no possible use for any of its forms, rites, and ce-
remonies. There is, therefore, an inconceivable
moral distance between these two writers, for
-while Dr. B. denies both the form and the power
of religion; Robert Barclay•only rejected the
"form," because of his confidence in the "power
of godliness." His reason for dispensing with
"waterbaptism," is declared by himself to be that
this was only a figure instituted temporarily in the
primitive church, and is rendered unnecessary now
that the " dispensation of the spirit" is fully come,
because the shadow may be dispensed with, when
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM· 71
we have the substance. If the author found his
"reason~ng unanswerable," as he affirms, then it
is plain that even Robert Barclay has proved the
"special influenceofthe spirit," beyond the power
of Dr. Brigham's philosophy and logic to refute,
and he therefore proves too much ; since both the
abrogation of "water baptism," and the "neces-
sity of the baptis£Q of the Holy Ghost," which
the former symbolized and prefigured, are sustain-
ed by the same" unanswerable reasonings." And
yet they seem to have produced no other impres-
sion on the mind of the latter, than to lead him to
the rejection both of "the letter and the Spirit."
The reason will presently appear, and in no wise
proves that Barclay's argument has this design or
tendency, but Dr. Brigham having already rejected
all the " spirituality" of religion, only needed
these reasonings to authorize a similar estimate of
its "forms." _
In the fifth chapter our author treats of places
of worship, inconvenience of houses, night meet-
ings, camp meetings, protracted meetings, and
ringing of bells. With his observations on the
manner of building and furnishing houses ofwor-
ship, so as to make them comfortable ; and with
his just censures on the carelessness so prevalent
in these respects, and so prejudicial to health, we
need not detain the reader. Nor are we at all dis-
posed to censure the merited rebuke given by the
author, to those who, while attending church,allow
72 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
their horses to suffer by being exposed to the
weather. On these, and the like subjects, the au-
thor is qualified to write by his previous studies,
habits, and information, and were he equally ac-
quainted with the subject of religion, this book
would never have been published.
But when he takes up the subject of night
meetings, which seem to be his peculiar horror, the
author appears unable to suppress his indignation
or restrain his anathemas. He premises that by
night meetings, he means "those which are holden
for religious purposes," for of these he says, " I
consider theatres and balls as less injuriou• to the
health of the people of this country than religious
night meetings." To be sure he assigns as a rea-
son the great comparative frequency of the latter,
but from the stress laid upon their religiOUB cha-
racter, and the sneering he uses in relation to the
variety of occasions for them, it is plain, that if
the night meetings were not religious, and were
ever so frequent, they might, in his opinion, be in-
nocent and useful.
While he admits that " hundreds -of females
lose their lives from complaints produced by at-
tending theatres and balls," yet he " wishes
dancing were more general in private houses," so
that this kind of" night meetings" would be salu-
tary to health, however frequent, if there was no
religion mingled with them, a proviso which we
should think, not very difficult to secure. And he
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 73
broadly intimates, that "theatre going" is not ob-
jectionable, on account of being injurious to the
body, nor would it be injurious to the mind if it
were not for the indecent and vulgar plays brought
upon the stage.
The dangerous.and alarming influence of reli-
gious night meetings upon health is dwelt upon at
great length, and the clergy are pathetically ap-
pealed to for their abandonment, while the ladies
are warned to avoid them as they wish to escape
"nervO?ts and hysterical diseases, apople:xy,palsy, con-
sumption and death." If this black catalogue does
not affright the fair inhabitants of New England,
and all the world, from religioua night meetings,
he has called " spirits from the vasty deep " in
vam.
The zeal, fervor, and eloquence ofthe author on
this subject, would be absolutely sublime if there
were more than " one step " from thence " to the
ridiculous." But to overlook, as he does, the mul-
tiplied and multiplying parties, soirees, quiltings,
levees, and converzationes ofthe ladies, and these-
cular, political and festive assemblages of the other
sex, and especially those which are far more fre-
quent,and continue to much later hours of the night
than the meetings he reprobates, renders his sage
criticisms superlatively ludicrous. In our large
cities, multitudes of both sexes, it is well known,
are in the theatres, circuses, concerts, museums,
or other public places ofamusement, almost every
7
74 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
evening in the week, and most of these, as in New
York, are thronged even on the Sabbath. Beside
these public places, which are crowded ~t all sea-
sons of the year, and often until after midnight,
there are musical, and dancing, and card parties,
publics, and balls, which are protracted during
the greater part of the night, where all the mis-
chiefs to health which the author deprecates are
ten-fold greater than in the cases complained of;
and yet the author sounds no note of danger, ut-
ters no cry of alarm, proclaims no voice of lamen-
tation, but is so exceedingly explicit as to say,
"By night meetings, I mean those which are hol-
den for religious purposes," and upon these only he
places his ban of reprobation.
The truth is, the night meetings held in the
churches, are seldom continued longer than from
one to two hours, and are crowded only on some
special occasions, which, for the most part, are
exceedingly rare. The frequency of these meet-
ings is therefore greatly overrated, and on this, as
well as on other topics, the author draws largely
upon his imagination for his facts. A striking
example of his propensity to exaggeration is fur-
nished in the opinion he expresses that " one half
of the females between the age of fifteen and fifty,
throughout the whole community, attend religious
meetings one hundred and fifty nights in a year."
The reader will need no other evidence to deter•
mme what share of credibility is merited by hi&
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 76
sweeping assertions. And even ifit were true, the
short time usually occupied in such meetings could
not then be productive ofthe mischiefs so terrifical-
ly portrayed. Indeed, it must be regarded as be-
yond all the mysteriesof the universe, that so large
a proportion of the females of the whole communi-
ty, as he describes, should be perennially subject-
ed to the causes which ruin their health, while the
instances of the actual production of disease from
this source should be so "few and far between."
For we hesitate not to aver, that the most accurate
statistics will prove that more females die every
year of hydrophobia in the various parts of this
country, than of diseases produced by religious
night meetings. We regard the doleful predic-
tions and lamentations ofthis alarmist, as evincing
profound stupidity, and meriting supreme con-
tempt.
The author, next in order, takes up camp meet-
ings, by which, he says, "I mean meetings of nu-
merous individuals out of doors, usually in the
woods, for the purpose of devoting themselves for
several days and nights to prayer, and to attend-
ance on other religious exercises." The reader will
perceive, tha\ in thus selecting camp meetings as
the topic of his animadversions, he condemns only
those which are for " prayer and religious exer-
cises." This, as in the case of night meetings, is
u the head and front of their offending." En-
campments for hunting, fishing, and pleasure ex-
76 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
cursions, or those upon the race course, are inno-
cent and perhaps salutary, for though they consist
of " numerous individuals, out of doors, and in
the woods," yet they are notfor the unhealthy and
mischievous " purpose of prayer and religious
exercises," and are therefore harmless, if not lau-
dable. That this view of the author's meaning is
correct, may be seen from the fact, that "four
day's meetings," or "protracted meetings," which
he says took their rise from camp meetings, are de-
clared to be equally mischievous to the health,
though these resemble each other, neither in being
"out of doors," nor "in the woods," but only in
their being held "forprayer andreligious exercises,"
which seem to be the peculiar horror of the author,
since he seldom mentions such things, but he asso-
ciates them with "hysterics, apoplexy, insanity,
and death!"
In the accounts he selects of a number of these
meetings, and the correctness of which he does
not question, we find no mention of any injurious
effects upon the health of the multitudes in attend-
ance, though the Doctor says he has " profession-
ally attended several persons who were made sick,
they themselves were convinced, by attending
camp meetings, and be has heard ofmany others."
These facts are highly probable, but it would be a
most astounding miracle indeed, if camp meet-
ings should prevent any person who attended
them from being sick,among the thousands usually
Digitized by Google
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 77
assembled on such occasions, especially if, as he
says, "the accommodations in the tents, especial-
ly for females, are bad." Indeed, the description
he gives of these meetings will convince their
warmest admirer that they must be injurious to
health, were it not for the inconsiderable circum-
stance, that it happ~ns to be untrue. For exam-
ple, he says, "necessarily ! there must be great
exposure to cold and rain!'' when, as it is noto-.
riously known, hundreds of camp meetings are
conducted to their conclusion througho1,1t, in a tem-
perature varying from 70 to 90° or''Farenheit,
without a particle of rain. But again, he says,
"necessarily there is great exposure to bad air in
crowded tents !" This again is a very rare occur-
rence, for the public exercises are not held in tents,
but in the open air, where it is impossible to be
crowded, or to suffer from bad air, unless they could
fill "all out doors," and arrest the winds of hea-
ven. But he next enumerates, among necessary
evils, "that meals will he irregular, and sleep
disturbed," when the fact in the case is well known
to be, that the " regularity of the meals" is often
much greater than people are accustomed to at
home, and the experience of those who attend
these meetings will prove, that so far from having
their sleep disturbed, they may, if they please,
sleep longer and more undisturbed than usual.
This results from the almost universal regulation
of the times for meals, and the times for retiring,
7•
78 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
by the blowing of a horn. The rules for the go-
vernment of camp meetings, and which are strict-
ly enforced, absolutely prevent either " irregular
meals or disturbed sleep," unless it be under some
special circumstances, or on the last night of the
meeting,.when religious services are sometimes
continued through the night. •
But the author not only blunders in every part
of his theory, in enumerating the cause which
produce diseases at camp meetings, and which, as
we have seen, only exist in his morbific imagina-
tion ; but he is equally in fault, when in the exu-
berance of his liberality and boundless charity,
he conjectures the motives of those who hold
them. He says, that " no other reason can be
given, but that they affect the mind and agitate
the body." Here then we are told by high au-
thority, that the motive of those who hold camp
meetings, is to " affect the mind and agitate the
body," and as they are over and over attributed
mainly to the "Christian sect called Methodists,"
it is plainly the object of the author to impute this
object to the clergy of that denomination. How
it "affects the mind," we are not informed in this
book, except that " the sect ·of Methodists has
been greatly increased by them," and "they have
added greatly to the number of the Methodists,"
events, which however calamitous to the public
health, he does not specify whether they -are the
result of ."affecting the mind or agitating the
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 79
body." It is true, he affirms that "he witnessed
a most deplorable case of insanity, which appear·
ed to be caused in a young lady, by attending a
camp meeting," which appearance is highly pro-
bable, if she was in " the bad air of crowded
tents,'• or "exposed to cold and rain," with irre-
gular meals and disturbed sleep," for these would
both "affect the mind and agitate the body." To
be sore, he says, these are "necessarily" the cir-
cumstances attending camp meetings, and he pro-
fesses to speak from personal observation. It is
difficult to account for this false description and
caricature, unless we suppose that some time or
other he went to a camp meeting in a storm of cold
and rain, when the public exercises were inter-
rupted, and the people crowded in the tents to
escape the temporary inclemency of the weather.
And if, under such circumstances, some were not
made sick, it would be enough to invest these
meetings with sovereign and miraculous endow-
ments for preventing disease. It may have been
in a contingency of this kind, that the young lady
he speaks of sufferedin her- health, and afterwards
became insane. We remember an analogous in-
stance of most deplorable insanity, which appear-
ed to have been caused by a-young lady being
married, and "in her case, there was no heredi-
tary tendency, nor had there been any symptoms
previously" to the ceremony of her nuptials. And
we might, with as much propriety and with equal
80 REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM.
success, attempt to frighten the ladies from mar-
riage, because of this rare instance ; as to intimi-
date females from camp meetings, because of the
case he names. Indeed, the ceremonyofmarriage
"affects the mind and agitates the body," in most
instances, more than attending camp meetings,
and if the author should witness a case like the
ooe we have described, according to his logic,
"reason would condemn it, and experience show
it to be dangerous both to mind and b.ody," and
we might expect him to read a homily, calling
upon the "intelligent clergy," "influential men,
and especially fem.ales," to examine the subject,
and "agree with him," that marriage "ought w
be abandoned, or greatly modified!"
Protracted meetings constitute the next theme
ofthe author's strictures; by which term he says,
"I mean religious meetings of several days con-
tinuance," sometimes called " four days meet-
ings." They are "similar in all respects, except
the camping out, to the camp meetings of the Me-
thodists." He says they are held" for the pur-
pose of producing religious excitement," and some-
times continue forty days. He gives the following
account of the manner in which they are generally
conducted, viz: prayer meetings or inquiry meet-
ings early in tbe morning; then preaching, pray-
ing and singing in the forenoon ; in the afternoon,
another sermon with prayers and singing ; in the
evening, a third sermon, praying, singing, exhor-
REVIEW OF DR• BRIGHAM. 81
tation and examination of those called anxious or
awakened."
That these meetings are injurious to the health,
is alleged by the author for the following reasons :
" Assembling men, women and children ; talking
to them, exciting them, and making them anxious
and disturbed for days and weeks on the subject
of religion ;" the bodily labor and fatigue in attend-
ing church early in the morning, most of the day,
and late in the evening, days and weeks in succes-
sion, exposed to variable weather, a vitiated atmos-
phere, sudden and great changes of temperature,
by going from heated, crowded rooms into the open
air." For these reasons, as well as the injury
suffered by the clergy by preaching, praying, de-
claiming and exhorting most ofthe time, he objects
to these meetings on account of their mischievous
influence upon health. He says he has " known
several cases of severe disease, which he believes
originated from attending protracted meetings, and
several cases of insanity which appeared to have
the same cause," and he refers for still further evi-
dence to " the case books of the lunatic establish-
ments in New England."
That there are circumstances, some of which
are named by the author, which are justly repre-
hensible in protracted meetings, because hurtful to
health, is readily admitted. Indeed the descrip-
tions he quotes from published documents of the
meetings conducted by weak, ignorant and fana-
82 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
tical men in several towns and cities of the north
and east, if they are true, are justly censurable,
not only for their influence upon health, but for
their deplorable moral influence. But that religion
should be censured or condemned, or even pro-
tracted meetings made the theme of indiscrimi-
nate denunciation, because of the folly, indiscre-
tion, and extravagances of such" weak brethren,"
is profoundly stupid, and indeed criminally repre-
hensible in a professed Christian.
It is ridiculous and absurd, as well as cruel in-
justice to- charge upon the whole Christian com-
munity, and upon religion itself, the wild and in-
coherent ravings of fanatics or madmen, or hold
the churches responsible for the effects such men
produce by their phrenzy. The effects of such
meetings as are here described, are evil, and only
evil physically, mentally and morally, nor do in-
telligent Christians approve, tolerate, or excuse
the improprieties complained of. And had the
author restricted his censures to the agents and
abettors ofthese enormities he might have claimed
respect for his faithfulness and candor.
No one, however, can read _this book and not
distinctly perceive that the reprobation of the
author extends to protracted meetings indiscrimi-
nately, not because of the exceptionable features
above mentioned, but as in the case of night and
camp meetings, because they are " held for reli-
giOU-I purposes." Indeed the zeal exhibited in
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. S3
his attemptto convict religion itselfofcausing dis-
ease and death, has led him to indiscrP.tions and
perversions offact ofwhich he ought to be asham-
'ed. In his classification of reasons for the un-
healthiness ofthese various meetings, it is obvious
that the author enumerates a number of causes
of disease which are demonstrably more pal-
pable and vastly more potent than "mental,"
or even " religious excitement." Hence he dwells
upon the "bodily labor and fatigue" imposed, the
"exposuretovariable weather,a vitiated atmosphere,
and sudden and great changes of temperature by
going from heated cro-u;}.cd rooms into the openair."
And he.finds himselfunder the necessity of array-
ing all these physical causes of disease, which are
mere contingencies, in the catalogue of morbid
agencies, which render such meetings unhealthy,
because he discovers that " religious excitement"
is wholly insufficient for his purpose. Nobody
doubts that thecircumstances he names arephy~
cal causes of disease of themselves; but he su-
peradds all these to the "mental and religious
excitement" with the view of rendering it proba-
ble that such meetings are unhealthy. Yet they
are wholly irrelevant, because neither " religion"
nor " religious excitement" can be justly im-
plicated in the causation of maladies, which are
avowedly produced by physical agents, sucb as
those he describes. '
A number of accounts of protracted meetings
''9'tized by GoogIe
84 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
are here introduced from various religious jour-
nals, and the use made of them is truly extraor-
dinary.
For illustration we refer the reader to the sketch
of the life and death of a little girl, extracted from
the "Sunday School Record," and found under
the bead of Protracted Meetings, on page 178 of
this book. The author attempts to render it pro-
bable that the child's death was caused or accel-
lerated by religious excitement, which, however
possible he may think it in other cases, in the in-
stance here named, has_not the least semblance of
evidence. The facts are, that a child of eleven
or twelve years old, the daughter of a minister,
attended a protracted meeting, at which her father
officiated, became interested in religious things in
which she had been early initiated at home and in
the Sabbath school, and after a short season of
anxiety ofmind, was hopefully converted. A "few
weela after," this child became sick, and died of a
"fever of the most malignant kind," during which
her reason was impaired, as is usual in such fevers,
for a short time ; but four days before her death she
was rational and intelligent, and conversed with
her parents and friends in a manner which demon-
straed the possession ofher reason, and the experi-
ence of genuine evangelical religion. The narra-
tive is drawn up without any savor of enthusiaSm
or extravagance, and will be found pathetic and
interesting.
RBVIEW OF DR. BRlGIIAM. So
On this case the author founds a ,.,warning to
parents," against such reprehensible conduct as
cherishing religious exercises in their children,
and after describing the habits of devotion and
piety of this litde girl as highly censurable, he
adds, "then came delirium, disease and death!"
and proceeds to attribute the child's death to at-
tending religious protracted meetings as its cause.
But, unfortunately for his professional character
and candor, the narrative states, that the disease
did not appear " for weeks after" these meetings,
and moreover, the disease is represented to have
been a "fever of the most malignant kind," in
which all the world knows delirium would have
occurred, if she had neve:r seen a " protracted
meeting," and the Doctor at;trely need not be in-
formed, that malignant fever must have some other
source than "attending sunrise prayer meetings,"
which be names as the most horrible proximate
cause of her malady. ·
Ringing of bells is the subject with which this
long chapter-concludes, and is another evidence
of the " influence of religion upon the health and
physical welfare of mankind." He says, people
in health, and himself included, are " greatly an-
MIJed by the noise of the bells on the Lord's day,
the sick are very much injured, and he has no
doubt that in some instances it has proved fatal."
He argues that the "church-going bell" should
be silenced henceforth, and suggests that the inha- .
8
86 RBVIBW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
bitants may Qe summoned to church, by criers
from the " galleries of the minarets attached to
the mosques," as the Mabometans do, or by the
blowing ofa horn, the beating ofa drum, or by lwUt-
ing a flag. This last method he greatly prefers,
and should be substituted for the ringing of bells,
since it makes no kind of noise. One can scarcely
preserve his gravity, in perusing such sublimated
nonsense. It is not wonderful, therefore, that a
lady of New England has yielded to the tempta-
tion of castigating the author by a piece of satire,
which deserves a more permanent place than the
columns of the "Connecticut Courant." In the
notice she takes of this homily of the author
against the church bells, which so terribly disturb
his equanimity, she points to an analogous evil,
arising from the ringing of physicians' night-bells,
where the most serious and alarming mischiefs re-
sult in consequence of the neighbors being roused
from their slumbers, and especially mischievous
to the sick. She imitates the author in proposing
a remedy for this dangerous method of summon-
ing the doctors on emergent occasions, and mo-
destly suggests Miss Elizabeth Carter's plan, by
a long string being tied to the foot of the learned
gentleman of the faculty, and reaching to the front
door. In that case she thinks that if deep sleep,
or a cold night, should not be overcome by huma-
nity and the prospective fee, and a slight twitch
from the shivering messenger should not .rouse,
that a stout tug might soon bring the son of Escu-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 87
lapius to a sense of his duty. And as she is sure
" all intelligent physicians" and influential men
will view this subject as she does, she confidently
trusts her hints may remove the dreadful mischiefs
which ringing of bells, in such cases, never fail
to induce., The puerility ofthe author on this sub-
ject merits no other reply than such an exposure
of his folly to merited ridicule. ·
The sixth chapter is devoted to " modern revi-
vals of religion, and what are called the special
effects of the Holy Spirit, and a comparison of
these effects with the phenomena of diseas~, ani-
mal magnetism and excitements of the nervous
system." From the evidence alrea.dy before the
reader, he may be prepared to estimate the fitness
of the author's mind and habits to discuss a sub-
ject of this nature. He declares, that it is " emi-
nently philosophical," and professes to estimate
its "gravity and importance:'' and promises to
treat it with "candor and 'Solemnity," with the
" desire predominating over all others, that the
truth may be elicited."
After such an exordium to this "eminently phi-
losophical" department of his subject, and such
an assurance of candor in its examination, we can
scarcely be prepared, even after all we have seen
of this erratic writer, for such a tissue of unfound-
ed distortion of facts, impeachment ofmotives and
censorious denunciation of character, as are here
exhibited. The doctrine Qf Divine influence,
88 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
which is as eminently scriptural as it is philoso-
.phical, is grossly misrepresented, and a "state-
ment of doctrinal views," in relation to the gift
and influences of the Holy Spirit, is ascribed to
the "advocates of revivals of religion," which
no sect of evangelical Christians in the land ever
held or taught. Nay more, if the sentiments at-
tributed by the author to "innumerable clergy-
men," were avowed through the pulpit or the
press, by any man, however exalted in character
or popularity, he would be forthwith excommuni-
cated from any Christian church in the country,
for" damnable heresy." And we hesitate not to
affirm, that no man could be found, in the posses-
sion of his reason, who would testify that he ever
before saw such doctrines in print, or heard them
uttered by any professed Christian or minister of
the gospel. Some of them are too shocking for
repetition, and too revolting to have found a place
in the heart of any other than the author. · The
monstrous extravagancies of Irving, the shocking
mysticism ofthe Mormons, the profane impostures
of Matthias are pardonable, nay, innocent, in com-
parison with the " blasphemy against the Holy
Ghost," of which the author accuses " innumera-
ble clergymen," and indeed all who advocate
"revivals of religion." ·
Perhaps no where in this extraordinary volume
does he exhibit more clearly the wretched perver-
sion of his mind, than in theself-complacency with
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 89
which he denounces his literary, philosophi~ and
theological philippics against the great and good,
theillustriousJonathanEdwards ! Ofthe worksof
President Edwards, which he says he has care-
fully examined, the author authoritatively pro-
nounces, that they are " illogical, inconclusive, and
evidence but little research or refoction; and that
they are contradictory in important points, and
aboun<\ with careless and erroneoU8 statements."
Such is the grave criticism, pronounced with ama-
zing composure, in relation to the works of a man,
whose enlightened piety, learning, and acquaint-
ance with the philosophy of mind, has challenged
the admiration of the wise and good in both he-
mispheres, and whose name is imperishably iden-
tified with the history of his country, as one of the
brightest luminaries in the department of sancti-
fied learning. That the author should thus write
in New England, where the name and reputation
of Edwards are revered and venerated, betrays a
recklessness of character in which he will scarcely
find a rival.
It is true, that the name.s ofSprague and Finney
are associated with Edwards in his wholesale con-
demnation, but these ordinary men willfind in the
fact ofbeingconnectedwiththat intellectualgiant,
a consoling recompense for all the condemnation,
which, ~ith him, t~y are permitted to share.
Nor can the author gain any share of credence,
even for just and xnerited criticism upon the works.
a•
'igitized by GoogIe
90 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
of other writers, when he inscribes his own folly,
by branding such a man as Jonathan Edwards
with "justifying the most wild fanaticism the
world has ever known."
The reason why President Edwards is thus
singled out for the author's reprobation, is ma-
nifest in the extracts made from his writings,
which prove that he believed in "revivals of re-
ligion," and attributed them to the" agency ofthe
Holy Spirit." For this reason alone, he and Wes-
ley and Whitfield, with others among the el<K:Juent
and learned divines of the last century are jointly
classed with Finney, Burchard, and other modern
" reYivalists," and an attempt is even made by
garbled and distorted extracts from the writings
of those holy men of the last century, to identify
them with Irving, Pierson and Matthias. This, as
the author thinks, can pe logically justified, for as
the former believed ·in the " special outpouring
of the Spirit of God', in revivals, they must, to be
consistent, also believe in the effects ascribed to
that Spirit in "con'IJUlsiom,faUings, outcries, drea'IM,
visions, gift of t011guu, apirit of prophecy," and all
that the most wildfanatics claim and exhibit. By
such logic does the author attempt to make out his
case after all his professions of candor and solem-
nity, and a predominant desire to "elicit the
truth."
Possibly, however, he bas fallen into these mul-
tiplied mistakes, and misapprehensions, solely b.e-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 91
cause ofhis manifest ignorance on the subject up-
on which he writes, and the reader may make the
effort to believe that his head rather than his heart
is in fault. Charity will suggest this thought, if,
as we proceed, truth and justice do not constrain
its abandonment.
In this long chapter ofmore than eighty pages,
and constituting nearly one-fourth of the hook,
there are so many topics introduced, that it will
be necessary to detain the reader here by a few
preliminary suggestions. In the description here
given ofthe nature of what is called "a revival of
religion," theauthor grossly misrepresents the cir-
cumstances ordinarily attending them, and selects
to suit his purpose, solitary instances occurring in
revivals, which are exceptions to thegeneral rule,
and some of them exceedingly objectionable in the
estimation of sober Christians. He makes M
mention of the comparative darkness and igno-
rance of the times in which 'some of the events
occurred, nor of the intellectual imbecility of the
individuals who were the subjects of some of the
extravagancies named, concessions which candor
and truth required him to make.
But his account of thedoctrines held and taught
in common by Edwards, Wesley, Whitfield,
Sprague, and others, is still more uncandid and
exceptionable. Their doctrine in relation to revi.
vals, are strictly those of the Bible, while the sen·
timents ascribed to them by the author are both
92 REVIEW OP DB. BJUGBAM·
uoscriptural and absurd. The whole representa-
tion here given of the " doctrine ofthe special in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit," is essentially erro-
neous, and in relation to those excellent men
whose writings were before him, his allegations
are absolutely calumnious and libellous. They
never held or taught the sentiments ascribed to
them, nor is there any sect of evangelical Chris-
tians who would not utterly repudiate them, either
in this or any other country. This entire state-
ment of the views of those who advocate revivals
of religion, is a vile caricature, and if the author
believes it himself, he will find few readers equal-
ly credulous. Indeed, if with the books before
him from which his detached and dislocated ex-
tracts are taken, he could persuade him~elj' that
Christian men and ministers could subscribe to
such a creed as he has attributed to them, then is
he entitled to our commisseration, rather than our
censures, since it is obviously his misfortune rather
than his fault.
As the author says on page 196, that be does
not question the special influence of the Holy Spi-
rit as mentioned in Scripture, as in Paul's conver-
sion, in the day of pentecost and other places in
the New Testament, we shall now give a brief
summary of the views of those who, with Ed-
wards, Wesley, and others, believe in revivals of
religion, and the reader will perceive that they
bear no analogy to those attributed tO""th~m by Ute
~uthor.
REVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 93
Theybelieve that "a manifestation of the Spirit
is given to every man to profit withal," thatChrist
is the " true light which lighteth every man that
cometh into the world," from which Scriptures
they learn that by the atonement of Christ, who
" by the grace of God tasted death for every
man," salvation from sin and its consequences, is
attainable on condition ofrepentance to\Vard God,
and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ." They be-
lieve that it is by the Spirit of God that men are
convinced of sin, and that under His influence,
which is promised to all who ask for it, any sinner
has all necessary ability to obtain salvation. They
believe that " except a man be born of the Spirit
he cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven," and
that" except we repent we shall all likewise per-
ish." They believe that the preaching of the
Gospel is Divinely appointed as the great instru-
ment to "turn men from darkness to light," and
that the Holy Spirit, given in answer to prayer,
renders the Gospel efficient and successful in the
conversion of sinners. And as Jesus Christ is the
universal and all sufficient savior of sinners, so
al$o they believe He is the only Savior, and that if
men believe not in him, they will "die in their
sins," and that the "wicked will be turned into
Hell, with all the nations that forget God."
This is a concise statement in Scripture lan-
guage ofthe sentiments of those whom the author
has so grievously caricatUred, and entertaining
94: REVIEW OF DB.. BRIGHAM.
these opiniona, they pray for the "giftof the Holy
Spirit," which is promised to all them that ask,
and by a "revival of religion,"· they mean only
that this Spirit and His influences are given for tbe
awakening or conviction of sinners, for the ron-
version of penitents, and for the sanctification of
believers. The progress of this " work of God, "
is what they call a revival, when many prove
these Scriptures that " God has sent forth the Spi-
rit ofHis Son into their hearts;" the "SpiritofGod
witnesses with their spirits that they are the chil·
dren of God ;" His " love is shed abroad in their
hearts by the Holy Ghost Siven unto them." The
evidences by which the revival is known to be by
the "special influence of the.Holy Ghost" are
these: " Ifany man be in Christ, he is a new crea·
ture, old things are passed away and all things
are become new." "lf any man have not the
Spirit of Christ, he is none of His." "He that
believeth on the Son of God, hath the witness in
himself." "He that is born of God doth not com-
mit sin." " He that committeth sin is ofthe devil."
" As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they
are the children of GOd."
The reader cannot fail to discover that in this
brief narrative of the Scriptural doctrines of those
who, with "Edwards and Wesley," believe in
"revivals ofreligion" as resulting from the " spe-
cial influence of the Holy Spirit," there is not the
least shadow of authority for the vile caricature
1
I
REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM. 96
drawn by the author, who.se malignity, imputes
to ..ehri~tian men and ministers "views," which
be professes to bave "selected from their wri-
tings/' and in.'which ha affirms that" those who fa.-
vor revivals-generally concur," which, we shudder
to repeat it, plainly imply the most impious "blas-
phe~· against the Holy Ghost." That the reader
may be in possession of the horrible and revolting
opinions, which are falsely imputed to " innu-
merable clergymen," and to "all who favor revi-
vals," we present as nearly as possible in the au-
thor's language, the following summary of this fic-
titious creed, condensecl from various parts of the
chapter, so that it ~ay be seen at one view in all
its hideous deformity.
He charges all sqcb with believing that" a very
small number of.Protestants are affected by the
special influence ofthe Holy Spirit, and none other
can be saved, and that no human being ofthe seven
hundred millions of the human race can escape
indescribable torments in bell forever, unless this
special influence is imparted ! That the Omnipo-
tent Being created for his own good pleasure all
these suffering mortals,·and by withholding this
influence of the Holy Spirit.from them, innumera-
ble millions of beings created in the image of God
himself, are doomed to unutterable misery ! That
.this Divine influence, absolutely essential for
man's salvation, is only imparted occasionally to
a few individuals of one sect, or religious congre-
gation, at a time, and even these revivals of reli·
96 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
gion are not always genuine, though caused by
the special influence ofthe Holy Spirit ! That this
influence has been withheld from the myriads of
human beings who have lived, and is now impart~
ed only to a few of the immense number of man-
kind on the globe, while without it no human be--
ing can escape indescribable torments in hell for-
ever!" and besides all this compound of inconsis-
tency and profanity, and much more too scanda-
lous to detail, he accuses these Christian men and
ministers with relying on certain "feelings," as the
conclusive evidence of the " presence and agency
of the Spirit of God," and with believing that
" outcries, failings, convulsions" and all the " out-
ward signs" spoken of in revivals, together with
"every species of wild fanaticism," are invaria-
bly the effect of divine influence. To all such
allegations against religion, its doctrines, its minis--
ters, and professors, we here enter our solemn
protest in the face of heaven and earth, and leave
their fabricator with the brand of ·a calumniator,
burned into him, by his own hardihood and folly.
Having thus disposed of the general slanders of
the author, we proceed to a further exposure of
the misrepresentation!'! and falsehoods with which
this book abounds. In the doctrinal exhibit we
have given of the sentiments of the advocates of
revivals, it will be perceived that there is nothing
of "gifts of tongues and spirit of prophecy," nor
do we find any authority for charging upon those
lU!:VUW OF DR. BRIGH.AM. 97
who hold these Bible doctrines, either " convul-
sions, falli~gs, outcries, dreams, visions," and the
like, nor can any of the " wild fanaticism," de-
scribed as their's, find any show of justification
from the sentiments we have attributed to those
Christians who believe in the special influence .
of the Holy Spirit and in revivals. Nevertheless,
we may readily admit, that a genuine revival is
often accompanied with external features, which,
though they may appear to be fanatical to such
lookers on as the author, are not by any means to
be'justly so considered. For instance, the author
maintains that "solemn and anxious feelings,"
"sorrow for sin," "trembling," "weeping," and
" feeling differently from what they ever did be-
fore," "turning pale," and" audible sobbing and
sighing," are all evidences of "wild fanaticism;"
and that those who believe in any of these effects
being produced by the spirit of God, cannot con-
sistently deny any measure of extravagance and
folly which may be ascribed to the same agency.
If this be not a specimen of "wild fanaticism" in
the author, we know not where it is to be found.
Let us try these extrav.»-gancies, as they are
called, by the teachings of inspiration, and by the
dictates of reason and common sense.' ·Were
there no " solemn and anxious feelings" when,
under the preaching of the Apostles, the multitude
inquired-" men and brethren what shall we dor"
Was there no " sorrow for sin, trembling; weep-
9
'igitized by GoogIe
98 RB'VIEW-op DR. BRIGHAM.
ing," &c., when Peter "went out and wept bitter-
ly," or when "Mary washed the Ma.Ster's feet
with her tears, and wiped them with the hairs of
her head ?" And if it be not unscriptural, is it
unreasonable that men should, under the influence
of enlightened views impressed upon their con- .
sciences, feel and act thus? Supposing it to be
true, that the spirit of God convinces a sinner of
his guilt and danger, as taught in the word of
God, is it wild fanaticism that be should tremble,
and weep, and pray, even audibly, for that mercy
and forgiveness which he needs? And when,
as often occurs in revivals, careless, hardened, and
impious sinners, are suddenly brought to discover
the enormity of their wickedness, is it to be con-
demned as extravagance that such feelings as re-
morse of conscience occasions, should " affect the
mind and agitate the body?" And yet this and
the like, is what the author calls "religious excite-
ment," which is to be condemned as" wild fanati-
cism," and calculated to produce disease and
death.
That instances of inexcusable extravagance,
and even consummate folly, are sometimes exhi-
bited in connexion with "revivals of religion," is
not denied, indeed the author has industriously,
and with a zeal worthy of a better cause, collected
examples of this character, truly humiliating to
our species, and calculated to disparage revivals,
and disgrace those who participated in such folly.
..
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 99
These, however, so far from showing the " influ-
ence of religion," as he designs they shall, are
only the excrescences which deform and disfigure
revivals, and there may be, and often is, no reli-
gion in them. He may attribute them to sympathy,
to animal magnetism, or to hypocrisy itself. 'Ve will
give him all such examples·as he can find through-
out Christendom, to glut the buzzard appetite of
those who can feast on the solitary carcasses which
here and there defile the vast field of moral
beauty and loveliness, which true " revivals of
religion" have spread out, in the face ,of heaven
and earth, and the fruits of which a~e seen in the
radical reformation.of the profligate and abandon-
ed, living epistles, "not written with ink on tables
of stone, but on fleshly tables of the heart, by the
finger of the living God."
The striking infatuation of the author's mind,
may be seen in the attempt he makes to disparage
the intellectual character of the holy men of whom
he speaks, as for example, he accuses President
Edwards of "a strong tendency to fanaticism· in
early life ;" and against John Wesley he brings
the same formidable objection, "He early exhi-
bited a tendency to ja"'naticism," and he classes
these gifted and evangelical men, together with
Whitfield, among " religious enthusiasts and fana-
tics," and talks of their "early enthusiasm having
increased to extravagantfanaticism!" Who that is
acquainted with the history of these men of God,
100 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
can fail to be amazed at the temerity and depra-
vity which is implied in such injustice and censo-
riousness.
Having alluded to the spirit of unkindness and
unfairness with which Edwards is treated by the
author, we are here called to notice a similar
want of candor towards Mr. Wesley. From the
works of that great and good man, a narrative of
a "revival of religion" is selected, which, because
it was extraordi'TULry in many of its features, is de-
tailed by Wesley with great minuteness. The
reader, who is not acquainted with the history of
the labors of that distinguished and successful
minister, might conclude, from this detached quo-
tation, that the "outcries, falling," &c., here de-
scribed, were common and frequent attendant cir-
cumstances upon his preaching, and that Mr. W.
regarded these as essential to a 'l'eVival. Indeed, all
the accounts given in this book, are such as de-
scribed irregularities, unusual in their occurrence,
and are by no means regarded by the narrators as
necessary, or even characteristic of revivals.
Such, however, is the impression this book is
designed to make, for no instance of the " spe-
cial influence of the Holy Spirit" is here referred
to, except only such as can be made to serve the
purpose of identifying revivals with "extrava-
gance" and wild "fanatacism." This is especi-
ally the caEe in the allusions made to Mr. Wesley
and the Methodists, when, if " to elicit trut4"
Ji~itized 'YGoogle
..
.
·:· .·
.. .
...·.
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGH4¥: 101
had indeed been the author's de"s~· he would
have been constrained to state th~·f~t:t, which
must have been known to him, that It(r::w. was
.. .
in the midst of "revivals" for more t')cyit:half a
century, preaching the gospel in variou~·~&"ns of
the United Kingdom, and in other countries, pPO-
claiming the doctrine of the " special inffu~!\.~6
of the Holy Spirit," and with a succes8 in:.-1:{1~
conversion and reformation of tens of thousan~.":
scarcely equalled since the days of the apostles.>
·>
And yet the ex~ravagances complained of were·:.~··:
exceedingly rare, multitudes who were converted · ~-- ..
under his ministry, giving no examples of wild
fanaticism. Occasionally, however, instances did
occur, in which circumstances such as those de-
scribed took place under his ministry, and that of
his fellow-laborers, but no one can read his jour-
nals, as the author professes to have done, without
perceiving that Mt. W. often records them as a
faithful historian, not with a view of approving
them, but accompanying the narrative with his
doubts on some occasions, and in others attribut-
ing them to sympathy, animal feeling, fanaticism,
and even hypocrisy. Indeed, he not unfrequent-
ly warned the people against them, attributing
certain examples he names, to the influence of
Satan, who designed to bring into disrepute the
.genuine work of the Spirit of God upon the hearts
of men.
We _
inquire, then, is it fair, or candid, or ho-
g•
'igitized by GoogIe
... .
. ; .;
.'~ ..
102 RE.iw OF DR. BRIGHAM. '
;;• ,
nest, to ~~i£!£t these incidental circumstances,
which c1n§Htute no part of a "revival," and
which, .&._ .'~orne instances, were attributed to the
devil,.'f>1.~Wesley, and the other ministers whore-
cord them, and insist that these are true descrip-
tion~ of the " influence of religion," examples of
the. '!'effects of the Holy Spirit.u The reader
~iu'!iiot fail to perceive, that by such a course the
.· .aothor has forfeited all claim either to confidence
. or resp€ct. For not only Edwards and Wesley
< :·are thus f<*lly misrepresented to suit his unhal-
. · lowed purpose, but Whitfield, Rev. Dr. Alexan-
der, Dr. Humphreys, Dr. Sprague, Mr. Finney,
and others, receive no better ju~tice at his hands.
Nor would the reader suppose, from aught that
this book contains, that these " semi-crazy enthu-
siasts" condemned enthusiasm and fanaticism,
even preaching and writing against some of the
precise extra,agancies <i ·which he complains,
and which he labors to impress the rfader, are
essential features in "revivals,'' and proofs of the
mischievous and unhealthy " influence of re-
ligion."
Indeed, he·maintains that no one can consis-
tently deny, ·that ·" t~e Spirit of God produces
outcries, trembling$, convulsions, failings, dreams,
visions, the gift of tongues,· spirit of prophecy,
and all that the moat wild fanatics from the ear-
liest ages, down to Irving, Pierson and Matthias,
hav..e claimed,n,while at the sanie time professing
Jigitized 'YGoogle
llEVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 103
to believe in " the special presence of the Holy
Spirit, in revivals!" If this be not puerile, pre-
posterous and absurd, we know npt where these
attributes are discernible in all the sophistry we
have ever met with• .He asks, in a strain of mock
triumph, " Who can point out the dividing line in
the conduct ofthose who claim to be actuated by
the special influence of God, and say which con-
duct is caused by the Holy Spirit and which· is
not?" This interrogatory will convince the reader,
that the author might have found an eKample of
" wild fanaticism," without travelling from home,
aioce he could have beheld its unconscious victim
if he would buthave approached his mirror. His
arrogant question finds an easy solution, when we
tell him that the Scriptures are our " infallible rule
of faith and practice;" and by these we may ordi-
narily deCide, even .in doubtful or difficult-eases.
But in the instances ·of "wild fanaticism," he
names, the merest tyro in the knowledge of the
Bible, could solve the problem with absolute cer-
tainty, without denying, as he does, that "God
bas any supernatural dealings with men." The
creed ofthe author11l8 we have seen, is, that there
is no medium, ei~ there is no such thing as the
"-special influence ofthe Spirit," or all who claim
it, however visionary and extravagant, must be
relied on with implicit confideDce. His article of
religion on thi${~Qbject·is .formed irrespective of
the Bible, elite he Would have known that the
. . .
104, REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM•
" sure word of prophecy" commands us to " try
the spirits, whether they be of God," warns us of
"evil spirits and false prophets, who lie in wait to
deceive," and furnishes the criterion by which
we may infallibly know " whether the spirits be
of God." His ignorance of the Bible must plead
his apology in this instance; also, for it is the only
mantle broad enough to protect him from the
charge of foul moral delinquency.
After such a course of sophistry and rhodomon-
tade as we have just noticed, the author says,
" Here then I rest the argument! and maintain,
that whatever serves to prove that the special
presence of the Spirit of God inducu awful solem-
nity, and is evinced by the flowing tear, will
~rve to prove that some of the most fanatical
conduct the world has ever known was owing to
the special influence of the Holy Spirit of God !"
Let us see, then, how this "argument rests,"
though we might rely upon the fact, that it is ob-
viou~ly a non sequitur. But waiving this, as he
" rests the argument here,'' we maintain that the
HoLv BIBLE proves, that the special presence of
God induces "awful solemnityt and the flowing
tear," and when we shall show this by one or
two out of ten thousand citations which might be .
made, we convict the author of profanely affirm·
ing, that the Bible proves that the " most fana-
tical conduct the world has ever known, was pro-
duced by the Spirit of God!" To prove that
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 100
" awful solemnity" results from the presence of
God, we refer the author to the exclamation of
Jacob, "And he was afraid, and said, surely God
is in this place and I knew it not, How dread-
ful is this place," &c., and 1fthe New Testament
authorities suit him better let him contemplate the
" awful solemnity'' of that scene, when the disci-
ples exclaimed, " Master it is good for us to be
here," or when Saul fell beneath the "awful so-
lemnity" which "affected his body and agitated
his mind," and led him to exclaim, "Lord what
wilt thou have me to do."
And as the " flowing tear" gives our author
great offence, and be stoutly repudiates the idea,
that this evinces the presence of the Holy Spirit,
we would again refer him to the weeping of the
woman whose sins were forgiven at the house of
Simo~ to the tears of Peter, when the Spirit of
God convicted him of his apostacy, &c.
But these will suffice to establish the position,
that the author's logic impiously charges upon the
Bible, the " wildest fanaticism the world has ever
knoWri :" and here we "leave him alone in his
glory," and proceed to notice the attempt next
made to ascribe the results attributed to the Spirit
of God, to natural ·causes, which, he maintains,
will account for them all. And we barely remark,
that there is not, to our apprehension, in the uni-
verse of God, an object of purer fanaticism, more
deserving of the pity of angels and of men, than
'igitized by GoogIe
106 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
a man standing unawed into solemnity, and un-
moved to contrition, before his OmnipotentMaker!
How deep the moral infatuation which can scoff,
deride, and even sneer at the emotions which
spontaneously spring up in the hearts of those who
realize the presence of the invisible Jehovah !
First of all, the author perceives a striking re-
semblance between the "work of God," a phrase
which he significantly quotes, in frequent and
vain repetition, and which his peculiar f~naticism,
scarcely names, but with a sneer, and the symp-
toms of nervous diseases, such as hysterics, con-
vulsions, frenzy and insanity." But as this theory
does not gratify his malice, he adds, that there is
a striking analogy between the effects of " revi-
vals" and witchcraft! They are promoted, he
says, by the same means. " So long as people
talk about ghosts, apparitions and witches, so long
will people see them, and to prevent witchcraft,
it is only necessary to cease talking of witches."
And then, he adds, with imperturbable gravity,
" So it may be witlt religiousfeelings !'' The reader
should remember that the author professes to be a
"Christian," having a "profound respect for the
religious sentiment." And yet he proceeds to at-
tribute every kind and degree of religious excite-
ment to the same causes which produce a belief
in ghosts and witches, and demonstrates that he
believes all spiritual experience to be wholly de-
lusive and imaginary.
,,g,tized ,vGoogle
jI
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 107
Not satisfied, however, himself with his own
explanation of this difficult subject, he proceeds
to ascribe these extravagances to the " influence
of a powerful or singularly endowed preacher,
whose eloquence, liketliat of Whitfield and Wesley,
leads the immense multitude to be passive instru-
ments in his hands." Indeed, under such circum-
stancestheauthorthinks that in large assemblies the
feelings and aetions, like certain other fevers, he-
come contagihus. And to sustain this latter opinion
he alludes to the French prophets, as a sect of
trembling and convulsed enthusiasts were called,
who appear to have suffered under the disease,
called Chorea Sancti Viti, and which is known to
be propagated by a propensity to imitation, and
which under certain circumstances, has been
thought contagious. He also introduces· "demo-
niac possession" among the causes of similar ex-
citements and delusions, but as he finds "the
special presence and agency of the devil but rare-
ly mentioned in the accounts of modern revivals,
he thinks it probable that the belief of his agency
in human affairs will soon pass away."
But he proceeds to explain all that is "myste-
rious and miraculous" in modern revivals, by the
phenomena of the stupid imposture denominated
" animal magnetism," and this he does in the same
style of vulgarity and sarcasm employed by the
infidel writers whom he quotes. And as these
have, over and again been answered and refuted,
I08 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
we need not detain the reader with any farther
notice of this ridiculous conceit.
We shall, therefore, briefly consider the conclu-
sions to which the author professesto arrive in the
close of this long chapter. The first is, that " the
outward signs and visible appearances spoken of
in revivals may have other causes than the Spirit
of God." This we readily adroit, and with the
knowledge of this fact, the author is inexcusable
for pretending to ascribe these effects to religiol\,
as though no other causes resulted in " affecting
the mind and agitating the body." The outward
signs of which, he complains so hideously, be-
cause injurious to health when excited by reli-
gious emotion, awaken no anxiety when they pro-
ceed from other causes, against which his spleen
·has not been directed. But the author has neither
the manliness nor the honesty to record, what he
knows the truth required of biro, that these out-
ward signs and visible appearances, are, so far
from being regarded by Christians as invariably
the effect of the Spirit of God, that even the warm
advocates of revivals look upon them as suspi-
cious, and by no means confide in the experience
of such, unless constrained to do so by that moral
revolution of the life, which is invariably the re-
sult of regeneration.
The second sage conclusion to which the reader
is brought in this chapter, is, that "it will not do
to rely onfeelings, as evidence of the presence and
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 109
agency of the spirit of God." else we " must ad-
mit the claims of Mr. Irving and numerous other
wild fanatics to inspiration." Here is a truth to
which the most strenuous Christian heartily sub-
scribes ; and it is because no friend of revivals
ever did " rely on feelings as such evidence," that
the pretensions of all such fanatics as he names
are detected and denied. But the deliberate de-
sign of the author obviously is, to impose upon
the reader this false and malicious creed, as the
undoubted belief of those who speak of the spe-
cial presence of the Holy Spirit in revivals.
There are times when it were treason to truth and
justice, to withhold the expression of a holy in-
dignation against outrages upon common decency;
and we are constrained to say, that this is an in-
stance in which the author has degraded himself
beneath conrempt.
We pass to his third inference, in which, be
assserts, "positively," in his usu'al style ofitalicised
dogmatism, that "the Holy Scriptures do not war-
rant us in believingthat modernrevivals are caus-
ed by the special outpouring of the spirit of God;"
and he affirms this as certain, while he thinks it
possible they " may he so construed as to partially
justify the opinions of Mr. Irving." And here
vie are constrained tosay, that the author exhibits
no great excess of modesty in pronouncing posi-
tively and certainly, in relation to the testimony of
the Holy Scriptures, when he has already mani-
10
11 0 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
fested, so palpably, his ignorance oftheir contents;
and more especially, when his opinions conflict
with those of the most profoundly learned among
the scholars of the old and new world. But he
will pardon us, when we object to his qualifications
to judge in relation to modern revivals, after
having failed in his book to enlighten his readers
in reference to their true character. He has
drawn a vile caricature, which he calls a" modern
revival;" and he persuades himself into the stu-
pid notion that the "outward signs" he describes,
are the effect of certain "feelings" which he ima-
gines ; and then he is so silly as to believe that
Christians regard both these "outward signs and
inward feelings," as the evidences of the special
agency of the Holy Spirit. Now, having built
this man of straw, he goes on a Quixotic crusade
against his windmill, and with consummate stu-
pidity, felicitates himself on having made a
magnificent conquest. If the subject were nol
too serious, we might yield to the temptation to
satirize his ludicrous position; but,however tempt-
ing, we must forbear.
4thly. He enquires-" Does the 'fruit' of these
revivals force us to believe that nothing but the
'Pccial itifluence of the Holy Spirit causes them ?"
To this sober question we might have exp4jcted,
from any other than aninfidel, a direct a.Ad sober
answer ; but the author proceeds to hold up the
wrangling and disputes of the same sect, and of
REVIEW OF .DR. BRIGHAM. 111
different sects, and represents these and other
" works of the flesh" as the "fruits of revivals;"
and this in the face of the facts known and read
of all men, that these reprehensible. d~sputes are
universally alleged as hindrances to revivals
wherever they exist. If he had been desiring, as
he profesSes, to "elicit the truth," he would, in
reply to his question, have given the known fruits
of revivals, as described by the authors from
whose works he has elsewhere quoted. We find
on page 241-2 of his own book, that the fruits
of revivals are described by Mr." Wesley, to be
the " conversion of the drunkard, the whore-
monger, th~ oppressor, the swearer, the sluggard,
the miser, and prostitutes." And Mr. Finney is
quoted on the same subject, as follows : " Very
often the most abandoned profligates are among
the subjects of revivals. Harlots and drunkards,
and infidels, and all sorts of abandoned characters
are awakened and converted. The worst part
of human society are softened and reclaimed, and
made to appear as lovely specimens of the beauty
of holiness."
These then are the "fruits of revivals," as
quoted by the author, from the writings of their
. friends, whose experience and learning qualified
them to judge correctly, and whose veracity is
be)ond reproach. Indeed, the author does not
deny the facts, but alleges, that all these things
"have often happened before;" and labours to
''9'tized by GoogIe
112 RBVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
account for them by .blotting the name of God
Almighty out of the Universe so far as in him
lies. Here, however, we have the fruits after
which he inquires ; and on these we rest the.argu-
ment.
He may ascribe these results to "nervous dis-
eases, witchcraft, demoniacal possession, eloquent
ministers, or to animal magnetism ;" and so
long as by any of these agents he can effect these
moral wonders, we shall not forbid him to " cast
out devils," because he follows not us; but will
rejoice in any instance of his success. Neverthe-
less we will still believe and maintain that " there
is no other name given among men by which we
can be saved, but the name of Jesus Christ;" and
to his Spirit and its "special iufluence," we will
still attribute the conversion of sinners, and the
reformation oftheprofligate and abandoned. And
while we qnite with the author in denying tOOt
those who" manifest the works of the flesh" are
" led by the Holy Spirit," whatever be their pre-
tensions ; yet, we as positively deny that such are
in whole or in part the " fruit;' of either ancient
or modern revivals; and we are shocked at the
hardihood under which he could make the iusinu...
ation. The "fruits of the Spirit," as described
in the New Testament, "love, joy, peace, lons:
suffering, gendeness, goodness, faith, meekness,
and temperance," are those which must and do
follow every genuine revival of religion; and
'igitized by GoogIe
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 113
where these do not appear, or whatever may ac-
company revivals contrary to, or incompatible
with these, we utterly reject, and are willing that
the author may attribute~them to animal magnet-
ism, or whatever other cause may suit his taste or
philosophy. ·
We have not forgotten, however, that the au-
thor affirms, in the " introduction/' that by the
phrase " fruits of the Spirit/' in the Scriptures,
nothing more is meant than the natural results of
the moral and intellectual powers of man ; and
the apostolic catalogue is there repeated as result-
ing from the " inherent ·moral powers," and not
the fruit of any ''supernatural gift." So, that if
these "qualities" were universally the " fruit of
revivals," in all the subjects, still, according to
his theory, they would furnish no evidence of the
special influence of the Holy Spirit, which be so
pertinaciously denies. Itwould be useless, there-
fore, to pursue this subject any farther, with so in-
corrigible a sceptic.
Hi$ last inquiry in this chapter, deserves a
more particular notice-it is this : " Do the lives
of those men of past ages-men illustrious for
their piety-men who have been the foremost and
ablest advocates of Christianity-men who have
been the bulwarks of the Protestant religion-
teach us that they were· thus affected and con-
verted?" To this interrogatory, we give an une-
quivocal affirmative answer; and on the proof of
10•
114 RBVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
this, we are willing to rest for the refutation of the
author and his book.
In the first place, then, we refer to the experi-
ence of the Old Testament saints, as well as the
conversion of the primitive disciples of Christ, as
recorded in the New Testament. The Psalmist
undoubtedly felt what the author calls an " affec-
tion of the mind, and agitation of the body." At
one time, he exolaims-" Against thee, and thee
only, have I nnned, 0 God, and done this evil in
thy sight;" and again, "My soul is exceeding
sorrowful;" "My tears are my meat and drink
both day and night;" " The sorrotpa of death com-
passed me, the pains of hell got hold upon me, I
found trouble and sorrow. Then called I upon the
name of the Lord. Oh, Lord, I beseech thee de-
liver my soul ;" "Cleanse thou me from secret
faults;" "Take not thy Holy Spirit from me;"
" Uphold me with thy free Spirit.'' Here we see
clearly that David not only felt "a9ful solem- · ~
nity," but it was accompanied by great excite-
ment, sorrow, pain, trouble, tears, prayers, and
what is still more, he believed in the "special in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit," which is the distin-
guishing feature in modern revivals, and which the
author represents as contrary to Scripture or
reason.
But let us turn to the New Testament, and we
shall find numerous instances of similar affections
ofthe mind and agitations of the body. The con-
• -- J
-.,.
REVIEW OF DR. BRIG.H.Uf. 116
version of St. Paul was attended with more ex-
citement, emotion, and what the author calls ex-
travagance and wild fanaticism, than ordinarily
attends modern revivals; and that he taught and
experienced the " special influence of the
Spirit," it is hardly necessary to prove by cita-
tions." If any man have not the Spirit of Christ,
be is none of his." " The Spirit itself beareth
witness with our spirits, that we are the children
of God." And he speaks of it as the common
privilege of Christians to be "sealed with. the
spirit," and" filled with the spirit," which cannot
be understood to be any other than its " special in-
fluence," as claimed in revivals.
But to come to more modern times, we are
content that this question may be decided by a few
individuals out of the great multitude, whlch no
man can number, who will be witnesses before the
throne, in that day '' for which all other days were
made." Edwards, Wesley, Whitlield, Baxter,
and others whom he names, wotdd be rejected by
the author as incompetent witnesses, because of
their fanaticism, but David and Paul, and the
whole testimony of inspiration, are all under the
same condemnation. Newton, and Watson, and
Payson, and Robert Hall, and John Mason Good,
were all so fanatical, in his estimation, that though "
he appeals to the experience of such men, " as
have been the ablest advocates of Christianity,"
yet he dares to do so, only because be is ignorant
116 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
of their history ; for all, all such are against his
creed, and none but infidels will be found, who
deny the "special agency of the Holy Spirit," in
the regeneration and salvation of the soul. Paley,
whom the author quotes, has been so often and so
ably disposed of, that it is needless to reply to his
speculations, some of which are both ridiculous
and absurd, and for this reason they readily assi-
milate with the creed and philosophy of Dr.
Brigham.
Having thus followed the author throughout
this long chapter, we proceed to the next, which
is more professional, and treats of the injury of
the brain and nervous system, from frequent meet-
ings and religious excitements; the increase ofcer-
tain diseases from these causes-and concludes
with special advice to the ladies and to clergy-
men.
And first of all we have a very learned descrip-
tion, anatomical, physiological, pathological, and
phrenological of the human brain, in which he as-
sumes, First, that the brain is the organ by which
the mind acts, a truism which no one doubts, and
in relation to which he might have spared the os-
tentatious display of authorities to substantiate it.
His inferences, however, from this undisputed
fact,· are profoundly stupid, as we shall presently
have occasion to show.
His second assumption is purely such, though he
calls it a well established position, susceptible of
lqitizod byGoogle
REVIBW OF DR. BRQJHAM. 117
positive proo£ It is this, that " all excitement of
the mind increases the action ofthe brain." · This
doctrine is anatomically and·physiologically false,
nor is there, amonghis pretended " proofs," a sin-
gle instance of even the semblance of evidence
in its favor. It is not proved, nor can it ever be
shown to be at.all probable, even by analogy, that
" the brain, or that nervous mass contained within
the skull," is capable of action of any kind. And
the reader will perceive, by examining the cases
referred to by the author, that they are wholly ir-
relevant, though for the purpose ofimposing upon
popular credulity, they are adroitly and plausibly
urged as direct and conclusive evidence.
For example, he says, " sometimes when the
mental excitement is very great, instant death is
produced from the roptureof a blood-1Jeasel in the
brain, causing apoplexy." This is his first testi-
mony in proof of the "action of the brain," when
there is demonstrably no action of any kind in the
brain, or that " nervous mass which occupies the
skull ;" but only an " increased action in the
heart and circulating system, by whichmore blood
is sea.tto theheadthan can be sustained," and these
are his own words on the succeeding page, and
they explain the pathological truth, not only of
the case here named, but of all the examples he
gives of death occasioned by anger, fear, grief
and joy, or other excessive mental emotions.
That the author hunself understands this s11bject
'igitized by GoogIe
118 ltEVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
correctly, is evident from his ascribing the flushed
countenance, in such examples, to an " increased
rush of blood to the head," which he cannot but
know is the result of the vii a tergo in the heart,
and not in the brain. If there was any conceiva-
ble action performed by the brain, it would be in
offering resistance to this "rush of blood;" in ac-
cordance with a fundamental law of nature, in
· which the different organs of the body are endow-
ed with this power for their own protection. In-
stead of which, however, in all the true examples
he cites, the mental emotion increases the action
of the heart, and the blood rushes to the brain with
increased velocity, while this organ, instead of
being active is perfectly passive, as in the apoplexy
which follows, and in which the pressure upon the
brain, produced by the effused blood, paralyzes
that organ mechanically, as any other foreign body,
so that sudden death is produced. Such is the
truth in the case, as every pathological authority
he names unitedly prove, and as dissection univer-
sally demonstrates.
It is as idle, then, to pretend that " all excite-
ment of the mind increases the action of the
brain," as it would be superlative folly to affirm,
that mental excitement increases the action of the
NOSE, when epistaxis, or bleeding from this organ
occurs, under such circumstances, which is by no
means unfrequent, and universally ·salutary, be-
cause hemorrhage in the brain is thus prevented.
REVIEW OF :QR. BRIGHAM. 119
Or, indeed, the author might with equal propriety
assert, that emotions of the mind increase the ac-
tion of tlte stomach or bowels, the kidnCIJS or bladder,
for abundant proofs are on record, in which the
excessive indulgence of the stimulating passions of
anger orjoy, has produced excessive and even fatal
hemorrhages from these several organs, and the
depressing passions of grief and fear have been
followed, when inordinately indulged, by exten-
sive secretions and excretions from each of these
portions of the body. And the flow of tears, which
is involuntary and uncontrollable in almost all
cases of intemperate mental emotions, might af-
ford him equal authority for the axiom, that all ex-
citement of the mind increases the action of the
eyes, or the lachrymal apparatus appended to them
But he knows very well that all these arise from
the increased action of the heart, and there is no
action of the brain in any case, other than the pas-
sive action, if it may be so called, of transmitting
through the nerves, the stimulating or depressing
mental cause to the heart, and this organ is that,
the increased action of which produces apoplexy
and death, either by distending the vessels of the
brain until they rupture and empty their blood
into the cavity of the skull, or by their distention
alone, as is sometimes the case, producing the
same result.
The same may be said of the example he
names of sn«;;den death in public speakers, during
120 REVIBW OF DB.. BRIGHAM.
theirbursts ofeloquence, which he falsely ascribes
to mental exertion and the action of the brain,
when he ought to know that all such cases arise
from phylical exertion, not mental, as in the impas-
sioned efforts which accompany these bursts of
eloquence. In all such instances the increased
action of the heart, and not of the brain is the cause
of the mischief.
The citations from Astley Cooper, Broussais,
and Blumenbach, are striking illustrations for our
purpose, since what they record as evidence of
the action of the heart, Dr. Brigham gratuitously
attributes to the fiction of his phrenological theo-
ry, the "action of the brain." They speak of
mental and moral causes having increased the
"pulsations of the brain," and having resulted in
"engorgementof blood," and even "inflammation
of the brain," but they never dreamed that these
arose from any other action than the action of the
heart and blood vessels.
The reader may now correctly appreciate tbe
opinions of the author when he urges an analogy
between the efrect of religious excitement in in·
creasing the "action of the brain," and the influ-
ence of ardent spirits upon the stomach ; and he
infers this analogical doctrine, and, indeed, says,
" it must be true, if it be true that the brain is the
organ on which the mind acts." This ridiculous
sophism is exposed from the obvious consideration
that there can be no parallel in the cases. In the
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 121
one, the stimulus acts not only upon the heart, but
directly upon the stomach itself; and this action
is mechanical and chemical ; while in the case of
. mental and religious excitement, there is no other
action than that of the heart, and the series of
consecutive effects which result from an increased
circulation of the blood. Whatev~r else the au-
thor may imagine religion to be, he can never per-
suade even himself into the notion, that it can be '
a mechanical and chemical irritating fluid upon the
brain, as ardent spirit is upon the stomach, when
introduced into that organ. It is true there is a
striking analogy in his morbidly perturbed mind,
since he proposes the same remedy.for intempe-
rance in religion, as philanthropists recommend in
reference to ardent spirits; for, if the maxims of
his book are obeyed, total abstinence from religion
would be the only course for the security of the
"health and physical welfare of mankind."
The next position of the author is, that " insani-
ty, epilepsy, convulsions, organic affections of the
heart, and many of the most dangerous deseases"
are "caused by mental excitement increasing the
momentum of blood to the brain!" Mark, not" the
action of the brain," but the action of the heart;
for this alone, as we have seen, can produce an
increase of the "momentum of blood" to any
organ. The author finds it convenient or expe-
dient to sav~ his professional reputation at the
expense of phrenology, in this as in other cases.
11
122 RBVlBW 0~ DR. ,BlUGILUf.
We design to convince the reader, in these brief
hints, that insanity, when it arises from mental or
moral causes, which is sometimes the case, is
muformly attributed by the author to what he calls
the "increased action of the brain," which im-
plies, and takes this for granted, that there is an
action performed by that organ in health, and that
the increase of it constitutes "the disease. This
is a dogma of phrenology; but is both unfounded
and irrational, since the structure of the brain, so
far from affording the least indication of a capa-
city for action, ought to satisfy any observer that
it is merely an organ of transmission, and not of
action, since for this latter it has no adaptation.
The office of the brain, and for which it is adapt-
ed with consummate skill, as seen in the appara-
tus of nerves emanating from it, and which are
the channels through which mental emotions and
sensations are conveyed to the different portions
ofthe body,isjhstly express~d by the author when
he says, it is ~' the organ on which the mind acts,"
thus admitting that the brain is acted on by the
mind, not that itself performs any act. And yet,
by a strange incohe.rency and inconsistency, he is
found insisting, in the same paragraph, upon the
"action of the brain," and explaining the rationale
of insanity,by the inordinate degree of this action,
which he says results from "mental or religious
excitement." And yet he soon forgets this phre-
nological theory, and records that" in cases of in·
-~r-~--------------------------------~--
-
,
......_
..,, .. ......
'-.., \
REVIEW..OF DR. BRIGHAM. \ 123
sanity there are alwafs fouJ1d, upon dissection,
visible marks ofdisei),Se aQd disorganization of the
•truct?tre of the. br~in~~----
Here we have the.paJhological fact(admitted by
himself, which .explodes his whole theory, by
furnishing the key to unlock the myst~ by which
he is so sadly puzzled ; and, by this si~lc fact,
the moaus operandi of the mind in cases of insani-
ty, is shown to be dependent on a .very differe-nt
cause, from any real or imaginary "action of the,
brain.''.· We need none of the lights of phrenolo-
gy, or indeed those of any other "science, falsely
· so called," to aid us in so plain an inquiry. Com-
mon sense will enable us to decide, that if " the
.brain is the organ on which the mind acts,'' any
morbid alteration in the structure of this organ,
·will neeessarily result in irregular action, not of
the organ, but. of the mind, which is obliged to
act on a diseased or defective organ. Hence, in-
sanity, by whatever cause it may appear to origi-
nate, is a disease purely physical, and is, by wise
men, uniformly ascribed to disease in " the organ
on which the mind ·a~t~ ;'!
...and it is irrational and
absurd to prate;, a3 the author does, about the
"action of the brain." But we shall have occa-
sion to revert again to this subject, and we there-
fore proceed.
After a grave attempt to prove that insanity is a
disease of the brain, and not a malady affecting
'the immat~rial, immortal mind itself, which no
'
124 REVIEW OF DR. BRJGILUrf.
one but an idiot or a materialist ever soberly ima-
gined, we have it affirmed that it invariably a,rises
i'om tnental or moral caUBcs. This absurd and
ridiculous statement of the author, betr!!JS a
recklessness oftruth, and a contempt ror medical
authorities, which, if his hopeless ignorance of the
subject does not palliate, must imply moral de-
linquency of the most deplorable kind. Indeed,
the plea of ignorance will scarcely avail him,
since the reports of the Connecticut Retreat for
the Insane, an institution located in his own city,
and with which he professes an acquaintance,
most conclusively refute all he has written. From
the tf)nth Annual Report, now before us, it will be
seen, that of the one hundred and sixteen cases
of mania and melancholy, including insanity of
every form, in the Hartford Asylum, more than
one-third are either attributed to " hereditary
or constitutional" causes, or are set down "un-
known," there being no suspicion of mental or
moral excitement in either of them. The rest
are variously ascribed to the following physical
causes, viz. "intemperance, dyspepsia, puerperal
lever, repelled eruptions, insolation, onanism, ill-
health, intermittent fever, liver complaint, amen-
orrhrea, menorrhagia, leucorrhrea, epilepsy, par-
alysis, inflammation of the bowels, licentiousness.
and excessive bodily exertion." These are the
various causes, purely physical, which have re-
sulted in insanity, and when the hereditary .and
. ...
REVmW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 126
constitutional cases are added, they will be found
to c<>Pstitute a large majori~y.of the cases, notonly
in tlri~ institution, but in eWA:y similar one, where
investigation into the causes is made with any
degree of accuracy. It is true that this report,
in enumerating the supposed remote and exciting
causes, attributes a considerable number of the
cases to grief, disap_.e~nt, and other mental
causes, yet, out ~the~
oe undred and sixteen
cases, only Set'en are even 8 cted tO be in any
wise connected ith reli · excitement or anxi-
ety, and this is itself'rfpalpahll:l contradiction of
Dr. Brigham and his boo~.
In the first place, he maintains that insanity
uniformly arises from mental and moral excite-
ment, a~~!f.~Ut · l~!~Jl,.,.Jpe testimony
of a French i . del, wh ·s s, that fthose causes
which tend to range the rain, the VeriJ exer-
cise of its ownfu · , are th m t frequent, nay,
almost the only caus capa)Jle o roducing mental
alienation." T Ts:av!rtua d~"f.ial of the fact
which universal obser~tio and experience will
demonstrate, that nearly\1[ the insane are here-
ditarily predisposed to this malady by physical
causes ; though, as is well known, it is exceeding-
ly difficult to obtain from the friends of patients,
this humiliating and disreputable confession, as it
ia regarded ; for to conceal a family predisposi-
tion to this dreadful disease, is natural and for the
sake of others, in some cases, it may be laudable.
u•
126 REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM,
And this denial of the author is made by a strange
fatuity, in the face ofthe truth, which he himself
attests by numerous .authorities, that" thickening
of the skull, organic alteration of the brain, and
other changes of structure are always found in the
heads of insane people upon dissection.'~ Surely
whatever stress he may be disposed to place upon
the "action of the brain," which he imagines to be
the result of mental emotion and excitement~ he
can scarcely deceive himself into the opinion that
"thickening of the skull" is thus produced, for this
theory would explode his whole phrenologi~al fa-
bric, and annihilate his favorite " science of
bumps."
But we next find him maintaining that while
mental excitement on any subject may produce
insanity, there is " especial" danger from the
suqject of "religion!'' Indeed, he declares that
" in all ages religion has been one of the most
fruitful sources of the disease!" And this inexcu-
sable and henious outrage upon historical truth, he
attempts to bolster by kindred authorities. For
its ample and conclusive refutation, the reader
need only refer to the facts contained in the report
to which we have just alluded, wherein he will
discover that there are but seven, out of one hun•
dred and sixteen cases of insanity in the Hartfurd
Asylum, which are even 1Upposed to be caused by
this " most fruitful source of the disease." Only
one-seventeenth of the examples, if this be, as we
.REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 127
suppose, a fair average, can possibly be attribu-
ted to religion, directly or indirectly; and a large
majority of them are distinctly ascribed, in the
report, to physical causes, in which religious and
mental excitement cannot possibly have had any
share. And yet, with these demonstrations in his
own city, and under his own eye, the author does
not scruple, for the support of his theory, to make
assertions which are as utterly at variancewith
truth, as with every species of medical philoso-
phy.
The report to which reference is had, is select-
ed because of its being issued in Hartford, where
. the author resides, and not because of any singu-
Jar or peculiar adaptation to our purpose. Simi-
lar documents from any of the Asylums for the
Insane, in our own and other countries, present
the same facts, and many of them in a still
stronger light. Dr. Benjamin Rush in his valua-
ble work on " Diseases of the Mind," not only be-
dares that in the Pennsylvania Hospital the cases
were very rare which were ascribed to religion,
however remotely, and these invarUibly to "erro-
neous opinions in religion ;" but they were, for
the most part, temporary, and peculiarly suscep-
tible of cure ; and recent inquiries of one of the
most extensive practitioners in the city of Phila-
delphia, whose opportunities in the management
of insanity have probably equalled those of any
other on the continent, have elicitc;!d the opiQion
'igitized by GoogIe
128 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM,
that not one in fifty cases, can be ascribed to re-
ligion; and he never saw one such, but it was
found to have occurred in a constitution heredita-
rily predisposed to the malady. In the Bloom-
ingdale Asylum, near New York, observations
accurately made upon all the cases which have
been received from the commencement of the in-
stitution, have convinced the able and estimable
physician of the house, that not more than one in
forty can be referred to religion as its source,
however remotely. Indeed, so far from religion
being among " the most fruitful sources of insan-
ity," it must be conceded by all whose intelligence
and candor are led to investigate the subject, that·
if the disease has ever been produced by religious
excitement, which is very poE~sible, that such cases
are very rare, proportionably to other causes.
And the fact that professors of religion are so sel-
dom found among the victims of insanity, is
doubtless to be ascribed to thez:m;ventive influence
of religion, which the author not only wholly over-
looks, but utterly denies. Among the mental
canses to which insanity is often ascribed, we
find enumerated "the loss of friends,, H disap-
ment in business," "reverses of fortune?' and
other calamities, all of which are perennially suf-
fered by multitudes, who, but for the powerful
supports and comforts of religion, would, in all
rational probability, fall victims to melancholy and
insanity, and are only preserved in these fiery
RBVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 129
trials, by the consolations which religion, and re-
ligion alone, has power to bestow.
If there were any semblance of truth in the as-
sertions of the author on ,this subject, or any
correctness in his theory, instead of a few soli-
tary cases of religious mania, we should, in these
days ofreligious excitement, and even fanaticism,
be authorized to expect a multitude of such ex-
amples. But what he lacks in facts, he makes up
in wild and gratuitous assertions, as startling as
they are unfounded, as the following specimens
will prove : " No other disease is probably in-
creasing faster in our country than insanity !" and
he even "fears that it already prevails here to a
greater extent than in any other country," and these
deplorable results, which his morbid imagination
has conjured up, to affright himself and others, he
ascribes te " exciting the minds of the young, and
particularly females, on the subject of religion!"
Indeed,such is the peculiar horror ofhis perturbed
intellect, upon this frightful subject, that there
can be little doubt that if the author were em-
ployed to investigate the causes ofmania a potu,
puerperal insanity, or even the hereditary cases in a
mad-house, he would find that every one of them,
had ,c:me time or other, been at acamp meeting, or a
Sunday school, a protracted meeting, or revival,
a sun-rise prayer meeting, or at least a night meeting!
and hence, most logically, attribute them all to
religion, or at least to the "religious sentiment,"
130 Rli:VIBW OF DR· BRIGHAM.
which, according to his philosophy, " brought
death into the world and all our woes." We
must not forget, however, to remind the reader,
that this most potent " cause of causes," so fruit-
ful of insanity, epilepsy, and convulsions, was
" implanted in man by his Creator!" and has the
author's" profound respect!"
But he seems so apprehensive that the reader
will be incredulous in relation to the actual pro-
duction and development of these frightful mala-
dies, as resulting from religion, that be labors to
terrify us by the warning, that even if it does not
ACTUALLY produce these violent and fatal dis-
eases, yet it "may give rise to melancholy, hypo-
chondriasis, tic doloreux, nervous affections, diseases of
the stomach," &c., &c.; and though he labors to
establish this position, until he exposes the weak-
ness of his cause, yet he leaves it like the former,
without a particle of evidence.
Failing, however, to implicate religion in the
foul accusation' he has brought against it, be still
insists that mental excitement is dangerous, be-
cause the "South sea bubble," the "revolutions
of America and France,u &c. produced cases of
insanity. After these, and the like very relevant
arguments, in proof of the "influence of religion
upon the health and physical welfare of mankind,"
he concludes by the following prodigious an-
nouncement, "religious excitement,like all mental
excitement, may cause insanity and other di-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 131
seases," and then admits, though with constrained
and reluctant grimace, that " pure religion, Chris-
tianity, has no such effect ; but the alntse of it
has !" We marvel that he was riot afraid to add
his book to the multiplied causes of insanity which
he deplores; for if the "alntse of Christianity" be
a -cause, he has furnished the world with a memo-
rable example of that "abuse," and one which,
in this respect, will scarcely find a parallel. In-
deed we are not surprised to learn from the Chris-
tian Spectator, that the volume before us hll.S
already produced one victim of insanity, in which
this disease was caused by reading it. Should the
author's monomania protect himself from the
baneful influence of "religion," and restrain him
from "night meetings," he may escape personally
from insanity, notwithstanding his " abuse of
Christianity." For, however potent his "abuse
of religion" upon the credulous victim who has
become insane by reading it, we have little fear
that the writer of this " abuse," believed in his own
theory, and because we desire his convalesence
and sanity, we ardently hope he does not.
But, in justice to this strange and incoherent
inconsistency, which has led the author to disclaim
any intention to assail religion, and to allege the
evils he deplores only against its "abuse," we
will pause for the purpose of ascertaining what
are the "abuse~ of religion" in his estimation.
And finst, the reader may observe, that " all reli-
Jigitized 'YGoogle
182 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
gious rites or ceremonies," of whatever kind,
are examples of the " abuse of Christianity ;"·for
be over and again declares that" Christ estab-
lished no ceremonies at all !" Second!y, the doc-
trine of Divine influence is another " abuse;" for
he positively affirms that" God has no supernatu-
ral dealings with men f' Thirdly, all public assem-
blies for worship, all preaching and praying, are
instances of" abuse," and ought to be abandoned,
since they "excite the mind and agitate the body,"
and besides b~ing unscriptural, are " very unrea-
sonalJle in this age, when information on all subjects
can be obtained by reaiting !" Not only should
all religious meetings he abandoned, but Sunday
schools also, for they are another "abuse ;" and
as " the Sabbath ought to be a day of rest for man
and beast," it is not only an abuse to "assemble
and bear sermons all day," but it is almost as bad
to " make horses work" by carrying people to
church. It is no abuse, he aays, to " walk or
ride or visit friends on Sunday," so as people ab-
stain from hearing sermons on that day, and are
scrupulous not to ride to church. It is true the Dr.
conRents that a part of the day may he spent in
devotional feelings, " provided they are not car-
ried to an unreasonable extent." The "extent"
which he regards as not unreasonable, may be
estimated by what we have presented above; in
explanation of the abuses of religion, all of which
are of course" unreasonable."
RE~IEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 13:3
A long extract from another French infidel, on
demonomania, desigp.ed to sustain his accusation
against religion, in "causing alienation of mind,"
and which he calls an "admirable article," is here
presented, and may be taken as a true illustni.-
tion of the author's real sentiments, although to
the reader is committed the task of reconciling
these doctrines of M. Esquirol, which he fully
adopts as his own, with the Doctor's professions of
profound respect for religion, and of his aiming
only.to correct the" abuses of Christianity."
Among other flagrant exhibitions of depravity
and infidelity, we are here taught that Christian-
ity only "consecrated and extended the opinion
of Plato and Socrates, as to the existence of spiTiUJ,"
and hence, by the introduction of Christianity,
"demonomania was increased," because of the uni-
versal terror occasioned by the fear of yielding to
the instigations of the devil, and the exaggerated
opinions of the power of spirits over the body ; and
" exorcising," a practice resorted to in the "primi-
tive church for restoring the possessed of the
devil," though called miraculous, is here described
as a vile imposture ; and these observations are
evidently designed to apply to the cases of demo-
niacs, who were healed by Christ and his apos-
tles ; and all such " miracles" are ascribed to
" strongly affecting the imagination." How
strange that the " mental excitement" thus produ-
ced, should cure the possessed, and restore tlte in-
12
Jig1tized by Coogle
134 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGBA.M.
sane, when such maladies are ca'Uied by the same
excitement, which afterwards becomes their cure.
But this anomaly is all explicable by the Doctor's
" philosophy of bumps."
But next we are introduced to the period of the
Reformation ; and Luther himself is -charged with
having" revived fanaticism," and by" menacing
damnation eternal," having "added a great in-
crease of religious melancholy." Indeed, Calvin is
here said to have increased them still more. "Eve-
ry where could be seen the excommunicated,
the damned, and the witches. The people of course
became terrified. Tribunals were etected and
the devil was summoned to appear in a court of
justice!" These and similar disgusting and mis-
chievous falsehoods, are P-ndorsed by the author as
sober truth, because they are found in the Dic-
tionaire de Sciences Medicale, and ascribed to M.
Esquirol.
The object for which this extract is introduced,
is obviously to persuade the reader into the belief
that" demonomania," which is "the most deplo-
rable of all kinds of insanity," does legitimately
result, not from the abuses of religion, but from
Christianity itself. Hence he dates the increase
of this malady, from the period of .the" introduc-
tion of Christianity," and chru:ges it upon the
"primitive church," that they not only furnished
examples, but held " solemn festivals to cure the
possessed" by pretended miracles. Then he at-
Jigitized 'YGoogle
-----------
B.BVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM· 135
tempts to implicate the doctrines of the reforma-
tion in the same condemnation, charging upon
Luther and Calvin similar enormities ; and though
he professes to attribute the abandonment of a be-
lief in demons and witches to Christianity, yet
he records, as coeval with the renunciation of
these follies, that " religion lost much of its power
and influence on the ideas and conduct of men."
And regarding this "power and influence" as ne-
cessary to " insure the docility of the people, and
to produce obedience," he says the government
of Europe have had recourse to other means for
this purpose. And in this connection, he places
the " fear of the police, of prisons, and of punish-
ments," as being analogous to the terrors of reli-
gious excitement, and thinks it probable that the
hospitals for the insane will soon contain the vic-
tims of the former fears, instead of the latter ; and
this, we suppose, is on the hypothesis that religion
is to be "abandoned," or at least not cultivated
"to an unreasonable extent."
And here the author introduces his own testi-
mony in corroboration of " religious excitement"
producing that variety of demonomania, usually
called " religious melancholy," and which, he
says, "leads to suicides, and attempts to destroy
themselves and.their kindred." . These dreadful
cases are produced, we are told, by " imagining
that they have committed great crimes," for which
"they must go to hell," and that this "cruel des-
136 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGB.&l\f.
tiny" is unavoicJ.able, because they are guilty of
"the unpardonable sin," and their "day of sal-
vation is passed." All these "imaginary terrors,"
accompanying this form of insanity, are ascribed
to "religion and religious excitement," and the
author has " the particulars of above ninety cases
of suicide from religious melancholy, which have
occurred in six of the northern states, within the
Iast twenty years, and most of them within a very
few years ; and thirty instances in which the un-
happy sufferers either killed, or attempted to kill
their children, or dearest relatives, to ensure their
future happiness." And he has "no doubt, that
if all the examples of insanity, from the like
cause, could be known, their number would sur-
prise and grieve the friends of humanity, as did
the first published accounts of the ravage8 of in·
temperance!" Such is the exaggerated and un·
founded note of alarm which the author sounds,
the monstrous extravagance and absurdity of
which, will prevent the salutary effect of his criti-
cisms, even when they are directed against ac-
knowledged evils. .'!'hat there are appropriate
examples of fanaticism and folly, which deserve
the censures and reproofs which are here so indis·
criminately bestowed, is every where known ;
but to charge any such instance upon religion as
its cause, is not only absurd, but absolutely im-
pious.
After thJ astonishing hyperbole of language
BEVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 137
employed by the author, and the frightful array of
false facts, which have been imposed upon his
credulity, until his morbid imagination, it w~mld
seem, has been prepared to believe that there are
five hundred thousand insane religionists in the
country, and thirty thousand annual victims of
suicide and murder from this form of demonoma-
nia, analagous to the startling statistics of the 1' ra-
vages of intemperance ;" instead of being, him-
self, shocked at the horrible picture, which his
fancy has sketched, he says, with prodigious com-
posure, that the reader should "not be surprised at
the ,.umber of the imane being so great," but he
should rather be amazed "that it should be so
SMALL! !" This, he thinks, will be the case, if
we "call to mind the immense amount of machi-
nery in operation to excite the minds of men,
women and children," by preaching, praying, pro:-
tracted and night meetings, "sunday schools," &c.,
thus attributing insanity directly to these and
other religious means, or machinery, and not to
any real or alleged abuses. We have seen already
that every distinguishing peculiarity of Christi-
anity or revealed religion, is, by the author term-
ed and regarded an abuse.
Before we pursue these extracts farther, it may
be ·proper briefly to review the astounding senti-
ments which the author here avows, as well as the
statements of fact he has introduced. Everybody
knows that there is a bodily disorder, from which
12•
138 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
religious men are not exempt, which tends to
great mental distress, and ultimate insanity. Now
it is no more a fair objection, that religion should
not secure any one against this affiiction, than it
would be to allege that it does not prevent the g6ttt,
or cure tltc consumption. It would be a sad thing,
indeed, if the Almighty made it a rule never to
convert any person who had a constitutional or
hereditary tendency to derangement, or any dis-
order of the brain. And if such persons embrace •
religion, it may he expected that their minds,
in a season of distraction, will run upon the same
subjects which previously occupied their atten-
tion ; and that they will view them in a distorted
manner, just as others in a similar state, view the
subjects '\Vith which they had been conversant.
Cowper, the poet, whose case is often referred to
by infidels, who attribute his affliction to religion,
in the precise spirit of ~mr author, was deranged
long before he knew any thing of evangelical reli-
gion. He owed many years of unspeakable
comfort to the consolations of ·the gospel. And
when he suffered a relapse of his physical malady,
his distress was occasioned uot by rcligi~, but by
a false idea, which is in direct opposition to the
go~pel, and one which he adopted only because of
the paroxysm of insanity from which he suffered
this relapse in his latter years.
Now if we had before us the "ninety care. of
suicide, frol;ll religious melancholy," which the
'igitized by GoogIe
--
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 139
author seems to present with exultation, and the
particulars of which he boasts of having obtained
from within six of the northern states, during the
last twenty years, we should probably be able to
interpret many of them by this key, and so far as
any of them, were justly chargeable upon
mental or physical excitement of any kind, it
would be found, that no evidence could be addu-
ced, at all calculated to prove that religion, or
even what the author calls the "abuses" of reli-
gion, had the least agency in their causation.
The world has been too long imposed upon by
false philosophy, ~t.nd by a false nomenclature,
which, on this very subject has inculcated a belief
in perverted and distorted facts, which it is full
time wereexploded. Theauthor, ifhe had not him-
self become a victim of these popular delusions,
would have availed himself of the opportunity,
which his subject furnis4ed him, of enlightening
his readers in relation to the impostures alluded
to. He does, indeed, explode the notion which
implies that the mind, the soul, the immaterial
part of man, is the seat of insanity, an opinion
which has been imposed upon the public by phy-
sicians who have written learnedly upon "dis-
eases of the mind." By a similar misnomer, many
mediCal authors, and Dr. Brigham among others,
introduce the term, " religious melancholy, or
mania," and the latter -
defines this term in his
boolc. in accotd~ce ~ith this false nomenclature.
·'
14:0 RBVIBW OF, DR. BRIGHAM.
It is a remnant of the dark ages which barbarism
invented, which nominal Christians have per-
petuated, and which Dr. B. would render eternal.
Indeed, the ancient term was far less exception-
able,. than, as it has since been modernized. The
disease was called by Hippocrates and Celsus,
"mania religiosorum," literally, "the insanity of
religious people," by which they and the ancients
meant no more than to designate the form in which
the disease of insanity was developed, in those
persons who had previously been devotional and
pious. They had not then learned the refinements
of phrenology, nor "the science of bumps," else
they, too, might have discovered upon the top of
the head, a protuberance greatly developed,
'yclept, the "organ of veneration,"_. or, "the re-
• This" organ o( veneration," as Dr, Spurzheim denominates
it, was called by Dr. Gall the "organ of theosopl•y ;" and is the
same which Dr . Brigham calls " the religious sentiment." To
prove that tlie latter has not misrepresented his great masters in
·ihe "science," the reader is referred to the work of Dr. Gall,
where he will find, that "n prominence on the median line, ocru-
pying the summit-of the head, is the organic att4 ittttale IOVf'U of
ALL BJ:LIJ:F !" And Dr. Spurzheill\ teaches, that another orgaR,
in the neighborhood of the former, whicb he denominates "mar-
ulloru~UU," contributea to "strengthen our JaW. and fortify our
lnluf.•• And all these great men coneur in maintaining, that "it
would be as ltDjust to aoeuse those endowed with theee organs,
with impoature, as it would be to censure potU, who are impelled
by the organ of" ideality," for embodying and p11rsonifying their
ideas.'' For "we have the idea of a Supreme Being, becavu we
have an oqran fitted for auch a purpoee, u4l w&thout an orgq bj
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 141
ligious sentiment," and, in such case, they would ,
have changed the name of the disease to " mania
religiosa," instead of "religiosorum," and thus, by
using the adjective instead of the plural noun,
they would have taught the medical heresy of the
author, and conformed to modern public senti-
ment, for the existence of which this misnomer is
responsible. Thus, in physics as in morals, error
has been perpetuated by fallacious names and
technicalities.
By the term "religious melancholy," as now
employed by the intelligent and candid among
the profession, we design only to designate a case ·
of insanity more or Jess severe, in which the pa-
tient is either a monomaniac, and irrational on M
other subject except that of religion; or, that the
mind is prone to run upon this subject, to the par-
tial or entire exclusion of every other. Such
cases are found in almost every asylum for the
insane, and are very rarely incurable. Indeed,
there is good reason to believe that no such case is
hopeless, unless it be hereditary, and even such
constitutional insanity, as only assumes the mild
form of" religious melancholy," is usually'p~riod­
ical in the return of its paroxysms, and has lucid
intervals of longer Qr shorter duration, sometimes
tkosophy we could have had no communication with the Supreme
Being, nor should we have had any conceptio1;1 ofhis power and
"ttrihutes." ·
142 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
consisting of a number of years, without a single
symptom of its return.
Let it not be supposed, however, that, in these
examples of "religious mania," either "religion"
or " religious excitement" is universally, or even
ordinarily, the ostensible cause of the malady, as
its name would seem to indicate. So far from
this being the fact, .it is known to every practi-
tioner whose education or experience qualify him
to judge in the case, that these cases, denominated
religious mania, exist in irreligious, and even pro-
fanely wicked men, and are very often produced
by fleastly intemperance. We have known many
examples in which habits of drunkenness have
resulted in this form of insanity, and the patients
would pray and sing psalms, exhort all those who
visited them with great solemnity, and employ
their solitude in preaching to the congregations of
sinners, with whom their imaginations would fill
the cells, to which necessity and humanity had
confined them. We have witnessed such in-
stances in individuals who had never paid any
attention to religious meetings, or subjects of that
nature, and yet, though known to be suffering from
the direct fruits of intoxication, such persons were
said to be religious maniacs ; and when suicide
resulted, this act was ascribed to religion as its
cause, for no other reason than this was the sub-
ject of their ravings.
The same may be said of other causes, whether
REVIBW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 143
physical or mental, resulting in this disease ; and
nothing but blind infatuation could have led the
author to the attempt he has made to identifY all
cases of religious mania, as being the result of
" religious excitement." The fact is often direct·
ly the reverse; for in those instances in which
persons have become insane while in a high state
of religious excitement, and their hereditary pre·
disposition ha.s been developed by this cause, it is
often the case, that, instead of devotional exer-
cises, they employ themselves in all manner of
profane and obscene discourse, making no allusion
whatever to serious things ; and yet these too, may
be, and often are reported as cases of religious _
mania, by friends who conceal their constitutional
predisposition, and ascribe the paroxysm to the
subject which occupied their minds, immediately
previous to the attack.
. There would be just as much truth and philo-
sophy in the application of the term lunatic1, to
those suffering from insanity in general, as to em-
ploy the phrase religious mania in relation to a
single class among the insane. And the author
would not have been more unprofitably or dishon-
orably employed, had he gotten up another moon-
story and given us a learned dissertation qpon
"the influence of the moon upon the health and
physical welfare of mankind." This may appro-
priately enough, be the title of another in the se-
ries of volumes be has commenced. All the
144 REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM.
moon-struck individuals· in the community will _
furnish him with examples and illustrations in
proof of lunacy ; and the case books of the insane
institutions are filled with instances, all of which
he may charge upon the" influence of the moon,"
with a much greater show of authorities, philoso-
phy, plausibility, and truth; for the tezms "luna-
tic" and "religious maniac" are both entitled to
equal authority, as indicating the nature and cause
of the malady, in the individuals to whom these
names are applied. In the one case, the disease
may be as justly ascribed to the "influence of the
moon," as in the other, to the "influence of reli-
gion;" because both terms belong to the vocabu-
lary of ignorance and superstition, which-the im-
provement of mankind, and the lights of science,
have rendered obsolete.
These remarks will serve to show, the utter
futility of any judgment formed of the causes of
insanity, either by the name assigned to it, or the
circumstances of the patient at the time of its
commencement, or by the peculiar topics on which
the mind appears to run in its incoherent ravings,
after the disease has appeared. The truth is,
there can be very little dependence placed on the
reports of insane hospitals, with however much of
care and integrity they are prepared, by the offi-
cers of such institutions, especially in relation to
the causes of the disease. The friends of the pa.
tient usually attribute the disease to the proximate
o;,, ized by Coogle
REVmW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 146
cause most apparent at the time of their first dis-
covering unequivocalmarks of derangement; and
they will often ascribe the attack to a number of
causes, not only different, but even opposite in
their nature; and these are often wholly imaginary
as events prove. At other times, they will con-
ceal the real cause, for the reason that it is disre-
putable, as when the result of some odious vice.
And it is incredible to what a multitude of expe-
dients a whole family will resort, for the purpose
of preventing the suspicion of there being any
hereditary tendency to the disease ; sometimes
because ·of the injury it will inflict upon other
members of the family; and often, because of the
fear that the case will then be considered hope-
less. It is obvious, from these considerations,
that the " ninety examples of suicide from reli-
gious melancholy," which the author so vaunting-
ly.records iq. confirmation of his views, must be
regarded as very equivocal evidence at best, be-
cause of·the ambiguity and dubiousness which
pertain to all investigations into the etiology of
every form of insanity.
While alluding to this subject of insanity, we
again recal to the mind of the reader the dogma
of the author, that insanity is the result of the in-
creased " action of the brain ;" and we do so be-
cause his theory and his book are both built upon
this "vanity of vanities." Indeed, his former
work on "the influence of mental excitement upon
13
J46 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
health," has the same" sandy foundation," though
it has been lauded to the skies, by men who on
other subjects exhibit some share of intellect 11nd
judgment. We pause, then, to enquire what con-
ceivable "action" the brain is supposed to per-
form ? Does the brain think, and is it the increas-
ed thinking produced by religious excitement,
which tends to insanity and developes alterations
in its structure ? Surely the author forgets that he
calls the brain the "organ on which the mind act8 ;''
and uninitiated readers have always supposed
that it is the mind which thinks, and that thinking
is one of the actions of the mind, which is conveyed
through its organ, the brain, by means of the
nerves, to the limbs and other portions of the
body. He will scarcely allege, after this conces-
sion, that the brain thinks; for this would be un-
sophisticated materialism, which he and his'bro-
ther phrenologists indignantly disclaim. We ask
then, in the name of any species of reason or
sense, what kind of action is that of the brain?
Does the brain see, hear, taste, smell, or feel ? or
is it only the organ by which the mind performs
the act of seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, and
feeling, through the organs or sub-organs adapted
to these several functions ? According to the
doctrine here inculcated, the sights and sounds
accompanying a" protractea meeting," or a" re-
vival of religion," produce increased action of
some lund on the part of the brain, and this ex-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 147
cessive action results from mental excitement of
any kind, and especially on the subject ofreligion.
And yet, he does not enlighten us in relation to
the nature of this imaginary action, which, if his
own brain had been acting, he would have felt to
be his imperious duty, in discussing so grave and
important a subject llS the nature and causation
of insanity.
The truth appears to be this, that in all the ex-
amples of insanity there are physical causes which
dissection demonstrates amply sufficient to ac-
count for the malady; and these causes, as we are
here taught, are uniformly found in the brain.
And as we have shown that to suppose any action
of the brain, is to admit a physical impossibility
R.nd a metaphysical absurdity, it is scarcely need·
ful to add, that this theory assigns-,'-more causes.
than are necessary for the effect," which, accord-
ing to any species of logic, is irrational ; and that
phrenology bas led the author to do so, is a stri-
king evidence of the tendency of the system, and
demonstrates its fallacy.
That great mental excitement is particularly
dangerous to females, and especially to mothers,
during the season of their solicitude and lactation;
has been long known ; and, though the author de-
votes a section to this subject and that of the con-
sequences upon their infant offspring, yet he says
nothing new in relation to it, nor does he furnish
any evidence that religion is accessory to such
Jigitizf!d ")vGoogle·
148 &EVIEW OJi' DR. BRIGHAM.
mischiefs in any of the examples he relates. It
is true, he charges the "greatjugglers of church
and state," among whom he includes the minis-
ters of religion, with availing themselves of the
"highly excitable" susceptibilities of the female
constitution; and, in the language of another, he
alleges that " women are the clw1tm vu1eu for en-
thusiasm, and the most apparent subjects of delu-
sion." Yet all this is mere rant and rhodomon-
tade, while unaccompanied by any well attested
facts, in confirmation of his accusations.
It would have better become a philosopher such
as our author, to have set himself soberly to in-
vestigate the examples of" religious mania" upon
which he dwells, in the light of facts, some of
which he records, and others which the natbolo-
__.,.---- --:---:-:--':-- - .. -- - . --- "' ·--· ---
gical authorities be quotes, concur in testifying.
The public have need of instruction on this sub-
ject, and be might have performed an invaluable
service to the cause of truth, had he disabused
his fellow men of the impostures they have suf-
fered, because ignorant of these facts. Instead,
however, of employing his pen in explaining and
illustrating the intricacies of the subject, he has
thrown his whole energies into the scale of popu·
lar delusion ; and his book will serve to create and
aggravate unfounded and superstitious fears,
which both science and humanity should have
prompted him to allay.
The faets which he has himself collected and
Diqitized by Coogle
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 149
recorded, are of themselves amply sufficient to
· refute his whole theory. For example, after enu-
merating, "thickening of the skull," "organic
alterations," and "changes of structure," as al-
ways found "in the heads of insane people," be
adds, that " the brain, the material organ of the
mind, must become diseased, before the manifes-
tations of the mind can be pronounced deranged!"
What has become of his phrenological "increased
action of the brain ?" Does be mean to insinuatA
that this action " thickens the skull?" If phre-
nology be true, in whole or in part, then this ac-
tion would thin the skull ; for the action of any one
of the organs when cultivated, is developed by
wearing away the skull or its inner table, since
there must be a correspondentcavity beneath each
of the " bumps" or developments, else the exte-
rior convexity can be no index of the size of the
"organ." But waiving this tangible and irre-
fragable difficulty, we enquire again, does the
"action of the brain," produced by " religious
excitement," create the "changes of structure,"
and "organic alterations," which are "always
found in the heads of insane people?" Or are
these diseased" changes of structure" necessary,
before " religious" or any other " mental excite-
ment," can produce insanity? These are ques-
tions one would think worthy of solution by this
astute philosopher. He would find, however, that
they would place him and his theory in an awk-
13•
150 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
ward dilemma, since they change the order ofpri-
ority in cause and effect. If he attribute those
changes directly to the "action of the brain," he
conflicts with his own doctrine; for, on page 296,
he maintains that this "action" only "predispo-
ses" to insanity, and the disease may be after-
wards or finally developed by "ill health" or
other causes; and if he choose the other horn, and
admit that these organic affections exist prior to
the religious excitement and consequent action of
the brain, then he must admit, not only that the
individuals who become ·victims to the disease
are physically predisposed to it, but that these
organic and structural diseases are insufficient to
develope insanity, without religious or mental ex-
citement, which is at utter variance with his own
book, and all his authorities.
If we were at liberty to pursue this subject, and
the limits we have prescribed to ourselves in this
review did not forbid any tonsiderable amplifica-
tion, we might readily demonstrate what at pre-
sent we can only glance at, both in relation to the
inconsistencies and palpable contradictions of our
author, and also in reference to the facts and ad-
missions contained in his own book, from which
the true theory of insanity may be deduced. It
may be in place, briefly to remark, that as the
brain is the material organ of the mind, and is in-
variably diseased in its structure, and must be so
before any form of insanity can exist, it is plain
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 161
that the essence of the disease consists in some
organic ·affection of the brain, even when, as in
many cases, we may be unable to discover the na-
ture of the structural alteration by dissection it-
self. Whenever insanity appears then, in any
instance, whatever may seem to have produced
it, whether physical or mental in its character,
there is in the brain Of the individual the seat or
proximate cause of the disease. From these pre-
mises, distinctly admitted by the author, it follows
that, before we can legitimately infer that " reli-
gion" or "religious excitement" has occasioned
insanity, much less affirm that it is "one of the
most fruitful sources of this disease," we must
prove, or at least render it probable, that such ex-
citement will produce "organic alterations," or
"changes of structure," or "thickening of the
skull;" for these are " always found in the heads
of insane people." We need not say, that the
author has utterly failed to furnish a singleexam-
ple, even with the aid of his visionary fable of
the "action of the brain," in which there is the
least semblance of evidence that religious excite-
ment created these physical derangements in the
structure of the brain. So far from having made
this appear, he seems so conscious of the absence
of all proof that religious excitement has evet
occasioned insanity, though he lras·~ again
asserted it, that he says "it produces a tcnd~-r.o
insanity, which other causes may finally de-
162 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAl.f,
velope." And hence, he argues that even when
religious excitement does not produce insanity,
yet it creates a "predisposition" to it; and the in-
dividuals, although they afterwards become in-
sane, obviously from other causes, yet this resul
would not have taken place, bad it not been for
the "previous excitement." And even if they
never give any symptom of insanity, yet still, he con-
tends, that a " still greater evil is to be feared in
the effect which the excitement will have upon a
IUCceeding generation, the offspring of excited and
nervous parents." The ingenuity of this alarm-
ist, in his zeal to make out his case against reli-
gion, by first contending that it makes people in-
sane, and next that at least it prepares them to be-
come so from other causes,and then allegingthat at
anyrate, ifthey will not become victims ofinsanity,
their children or grandchildren will; is conclusive
evidence that he designs to make up in prophecy
what he lacks in argument and facts.
On this subject there is not only flXtensive popu-
lar delusion, but the profession is in no small de-
gree accountable for it ; nor indeed are physicians
themselves altogether free from confused and un-
philosopbical opinions. For example, we bear
and read perpetual eulogies on what is called the
moral treatment of insane persons, in contradis-
tinction_(rom the physical, which implies that in-
--~ity is a mental disease, and not a physical one,
hence tbe appropriateness of moral means. Ex-
RBVIEW Oi' DB· BRIGHAM. 163
perience and observation, however, are continually
adding a multitude of facts, which abundantly __
prove that no moral means are useful, unl~ey­
produce a phy1ical effect. Hence, sOlitude is often
the most successful moral remedy, because it ab-
stracts the association of ideas which company, of
any kind, occasions. The activity of the mind is
often greater, in proportion as the organ on which
it acts is enfeebled and impaired by the malady.
Hence, when solitude alone fails to calm the per·
turbed and inroherent ravings of a maniac, other
moral means are used, such as darlmeu and lilence,
by which light and sound, those potent stimuli of
thought, are withdrawn. The morbid sensitive· ..
ness of the visual and auditory organs,consequent
upurr--the- Jiseli$ed cunditimr-uf -the- brain, fre.-,-- -
quently render it necessary to superadd profound
silence and darkness to solitude, in order to tran-
quilize the system, and this effect is produced by
the physical operation of these moral means.
Occasionally, however, it becomes requisite to
confine the limbs, when motion alone proves a
stimulant to the action of the mind; and, in addi-
tion to all these means, starvation, another pbysi·
cal measure, must occasionally be resorted to,
since it is found that the act of taking food excites
both mind and body, apart from the processes o(
digestion and assimilation, which are often incoJD-o
patible with convalescence in such cases. All
such means as we have named, are curative in
164 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
their tendency, by their withdrawing all the stim-
uli of mental action ; and that this is the rational
- and--pb!!~sophical indication is apparent, when we
consider that the brain is the seat of the disease,
and this "organ on which the mind acts" being
feeble and sick, it is necessary to suspend the use
.or employment of this organ as far as possible.
And as any use of a defective or broken instru-
ment of music, is calculated to increase the mis-
chief, and prevent the possibility of its being re-
paired, so it is desirable in all cases of recent in-
sanity, that the mind be kept in a state of
.quiescence, since it cannot act without using a
suffering or injured organ ; and all action upon an
instrument in this condition, must not only be
irregular and incoherent, but it must Mcessarily
increase the difficulty of cure. It is for want of
giving the brain the rest which is required, that
recent cases of insanity are so often rendered per-
manent and hopeless, a result which is often the
consequence of company, or employment, or re-
creation.
While the mind is acting on a diseased brain,
how can this organ be expected to yield to any cu-
rative treatment, whether physical or moral.
Would a diseased or inflamed eye ever recover, if
it were constantly employed for the purposes of
vision? Or could a serious injury of the knee
joint be successfully treated, while the limb was
constantly disturbed by forced attenJpts at walk·
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 166
ing ? It would be as rational and philosophical
to treat an inflamed eye, or a diseased joint thus,
as it is to hope for the recovery of insane persons,
by requiring or allowing them either to read, to
sew, to work, to walk, to ride, or to engage in any
avocation, employment or amusement, which im-
poses action upon the mind, when the organ on
which"it is obliged to act, is impaired in its integ-
rity, or disturbed in its functions by disease. Es-
pecially is cbmpany of any kind, much more that
of the insane, indiscreet and pernicious. So far
from this prevalent and popular, though erroneous
management of insane persons, being judicious,
it ought to be ourobject to give the enfeebled brain
entire rest, so far as we can effect this by with-
holding every cause calculated to excite mental
effort. Hence, solitude, silence, darkness, absti-
nence from food, and the prevention of all motion
of the body or limbs, are found by experiment to
be the most successful method of management,
for every form of recent insanity. After conva-
lescence commences, then, and not till then, can
exercise, or recreation of any kind, be salutary.
In all old cases, which have acquired a character
of hopelessness, the indication then is, to make
the patient's situation as comfortable as possible,
by imposing few privations, and none but such as
as are indi~pensable for safety.
These brief hints, touching the treatmentof in-
sanity, will serve to show' thai " the action of the
166 REVIEW OP DR. BRIGHAM.
brain," of which the author speaks, h~ no share
in the causation of the disease, and finds no su~
port from the philosophy concerned in its medical
management ; and they are designed, at the same
time, to corroborate the testimony already before
the reader, that religion is not among the causes
of insanity.
Hwehavesucceededinvindicating religionfrom
the allegation of being " among the most fruitful
sources of insanity," it is a duty which truth de-
mands, to record our conviction that it is both
preventive and curative in its effects, for this is
its legitimate province and tendency, as abundant
facts most conclusively prove. Not that it will
universally prevent an attack, nor that it is adapt·
ed as a remedy to all cases'and stages of the dis•
ease, for the reader cannot so understand us after
we have so explicitly stated essentially different
opinions. But we maintain that the calamities
incident to mortality, and whjch aftlict great mul·.
titudes of our race beyond endurance, and by
which men are often driven to insanity, and even
impelled to suicide, are very frequently borne w1th
supernatural patience, and sustained with super·
human fortitude, by those who are obviously in·
debted for the impunity with which they pass
through the "furnace of affliction," to the su~
ports and hopes which religion inspires. But for
this, both body and mind would sink beneath the
intolerable load of misfortune, suffering and be-
RE"VlEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 157
rea-vement, which such are oftencalled in the Pro-
-vidence of God to endure. In such examples,
which are witnessed in almost e-very community,
the pre-ventive· power of religion is exemplified,
and for want of this influence others become vic-
tims of insanity from causes inconceivably less
·afflictive. Besides, how many there are, who,
when suffering a wounded spirit from worldly in-
fluences, such as disappointed affection, sudden
bereavements of wealth or friends, mortified pride
or defeated ambition, have stood upon the preci-
pice of insanity, and desiring death in the error
of their ways-multitudes have gone so far, that
they have chosen the fatal weapon, held the poison
to their lips, trembled over the river's brink, or
prepared the halter, and in the very act of self-
murder, when almost consummated, the impulses
of religion have awakened the latent energies of
the desponding heart, and darted a ray of light
and hope athwart the soul, even when driven to
desperation, and thus restored the son of wretch-
edness to reason and to life. In all such instan-
ces, and they are far more numerous than are the
victims of insanity, from every cause, religion
has prevented insanity. But there are many evi-
dences, even among the insane, that religious con-
solation has proved the only restorative sufficient-
ly potent to win the despairing back to hope, to
make the wounded spirit whole. And, accord-
ingly, we find that when the furious maniac is
14
168 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM,
tranquilized by appropriate means, and moral in·
fluence is indicated, in almost all the asylums and
retreats, such patients are uniformly benefited by
religious services. Reading the scriptures, prayer
and even preaching the gospel to the convalescent
from insanity, has universally proved a salutary
cordial, and is every where becoming included
among the arrangements of such institutions.
And in this singl~ fact, we have a strong collateral
argument, in opposition to the doctrines of Dr.
Brigham's book; for surely religion cannot be the
cause of insanity, and yet, as we have seen, proye
itself useful and potent, both for prevention and
cure.
Nevertheless, it may be conceded in perfect
consistency, that "erroneous opinions in religion"
and" false views of doctrine and duty," may be
<;ultivated until they become the habitofthe mind,
and when these errors are of an inordinately ex-
citing or depressing character, they may over-
spread the soul with imaginary raptures, or over-
whelm it in gloom and despondency ; and thus, a
disease of the brain, may be superinduced, which
may develope insanity in constitutions heredita-
rily or otherwise predisposed to this malady. But
in the name of reason and common sense, do such
examples "change the truth of God into a lie,"
and involve religion in the charge of being the
source of the disease. Falsehood, fanaticism,
hypocrisy, and sin, may all impel men to insanity
and suicide, and have often doubtless done so.
REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM. 169
Thousands have fallen victims to insanity for want
of religion, and from causes which this would
have rendered harmless. But it is a gross and
flagrant impeachment of the wisdom and benevo-
lence of the Creator, to harbor the thought, much
more to hazard the assertion, that a Religion which
He has instituted by the display of all the attri-
butes of Deity, and the exhibition of the infinity
of His perfections, and the proclamation of His
eternal love, should be the source of the most ap-
palling and unutterable calamity on this side of
perdition.· And yet such is the "bad eminence"
to which Dr. Brigham has aspired, and such is the
legitimate doctrine of which be bas become the
exclusive proprietor. If such be thefruits ofphre-
nology upon his mind, we may sentimentally and
most heartily adopt the exclamation of the pro-
phet, in relation to the whole sect: " My soul!
come not thou into their secret, to their assembly
mine honor be not thou united!"
We come now to the section containing recom-
mendations and cautions to clergymen. The
author begins by conceding the "sincere desire
to do good, to the clergy, very generally;" but he
deplores their "want of knowledge," especially
of human physiology, by reason of which lack,
" with the best intentions, they have often done
great harm." He seems to regard the great body
of the clergy of the country as " weak brethren,"
well meaning, but ignorant men ; and the most
160 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
deplorable deficiency he laments is, that they "do
not know" that when they strongly excite the
feelings of their hearers, they produce a terrible
"action of the brain," which is" transmitted to
succeeding generations!" And here again, he
repeats his stupid corollary, that "the brain. acts as
really when impressions are transmitted to it, as
the stomach does when aliments are received into
it." We have already shown the consum-
mate folly of this brainless imp of phrenology.
The arguments by which he commends the
study of physiology to the clergy are, that they
may learn how to" improve tlte physical organiza-
tion of the heathen, the Indians, and the dark-co-
lored races of men!" He encourages them
patiently to persevere in this work ; for though
little can be done in one generation, or one cen-
tury, yet by continuing for "successive generation.s"
to improve and strengthen their intellectual and
moral faculties, they will " cause an improvement
in their physical organization," by the developemen.t
of the n-ecessary bumps, and these will be transmit-
ted to posterity !
After much sage counsel of similar import, in
condescension to the clergy, he "advises, recom-
mends, and refers" them to a number of books on
Anatomy, Physiology, Animal Magnetism, Insa-
nity, and the sublime and celestial science ofPhre-
nology, as well as a number of medical periodi...
cals, all of which, taken together, he seems to
think will make them "wise unto salvation."
Jigitized 'YGoogle
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 161
It is, indeed, superlatively ludicrous to witness
the amazing pomp, circumstance, and self com~
placency, wiih which this venerable young doctor
seats himself in the tripod, assumes the mitre, and
announces his episcopal, nay, his papal, ghosdy
counsels, as though ex cathedra, with oraculaT
authority. "Iadvise the clergy;" "1 recommend
to this useful class of men ;" " I have long
thought ;'.' and then, in the exuberance of his wis-
dom and benevolence, instructing the clergy of
this country, as to the subjects and books they
should study, and reprimanding them for the de-
ficiency of their libraries, and their ignorance of
the subjects they ought to know. If the learned
presidents and professors of theological semina~
ries do not exclaim "a second Daniel's come to
judgment," nowthat" Sir Oracle opes his mouth,"
the world will attribute it to the want of improve-
ment in their" physical organization," by which
they are disqualified for the reception of the pure,
and spiritual, and phrenological religion of the il-
lustrious Dr. Brigham.
. We come now to the concluding chapter of thi$
treasure of theological lore, the profundity of
which we are endeavoring patiendy to fathom.
Having already noticed in another place, the au-
thor's opinions in relation to the Sabbath, we pass
to the section on the importance of cultivating de-
votional feelings. And here we are enlightened
u•
162 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
by the information that the "religious sentiment/'
so " naturally disposes man in all ages and climes
to devotion, that he universally see'la it, and is be-
nefited by it, when the forms .of religious wor-
ship are not such as his retUon repeu !" Hence,
as the forms in which Christianity is taught, are
made by " the priesthood to linger behind the in-
telligence of the times," it is for this reason that
people forsake religious worship. Of course, it
follows that it is only necessary to improve the
forms in which religion is inculcated, so that they
may not be repulsive to reason, and all men will
be naturally disposed to be religious.
The author concedes the importanee of reve-
rence for superior and invisible beings, because the
want of it leads to a disregard of civil rulers and
all other authority ; and hence, admits that "a de·
cay ofthe national religion is always accompanied
hy that of the nation." It is for this reason, that
he beneYolently and zealously desires that in this
country, "the political feelings should never be
stronger than the religious," which, he says, is
sometimes the case; a remarkable thing truly,
when he maintains that the " religious" is the
"most powerful sentiment of our nature," and has
"more influence on mankind than all their pas-
sions combined." Still, however, he tells us that
the-" spirit of sect yields to the spirit of party"
when it runs high, and this he deplores as a na-
tional calamity. He thinks "great pains should
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 163
be taken to cultivate sentiments of veneration for
8aCT'ed things, for truth, hone8ty, and perfect upright-
ne88." These are the "sacred three" which he
seems to invest with the attributes of Deity ; for
he says, "Men should be taught to venerate the
JJirtues inculcated by our Savior-to worsltip, if I
may so express myself, truth, love, charity, selfde-
nial, &c., virtues of which he was the living per-
sonification!" And it will serve to illustrate the
author's meaning, to remind the reader that though
he commends worshiping these virtues, yet he whol-
ly objects to the worship cf Christ; and argues
against the Lord's Supper, on page 130, because
that ordinance" seems to be a kind of worship of
Christ himself;" this he says, "the Savior never
enjoined." " Christ did not desire that men should
assemble in vast numbers, and prostrate them-
selves before him and chant his praise." Espe-
cially does the author protest against " holy day
keeping, sermon reading or hearing, church cere-
monies and long prayers, modern sermonizing and
church going." These are the forms of religion
which are repulsive to reason, and behind the in..
telligence of the times; and yet the title of this
section is, " the importance of cultivating devo-
tional feelings.'' What kind of devotional feel-
ings he would cultivate, the reader will be puzzled
to know, since he rejects all present forms, and
prescribes no others.
He.nextanimadverts upon the clergy ofthe day,
164 REVIEW OF DR. BRlGHAM.
who, en maue, he represents asH agitated by the
put:rik and exciting topics of the day." This he
accounts for, by their temperament and disposi-
tion phrenologically. He says: "Preachers, like
other men, in con~equence of their organization,
model, witho-ut knowing it, the character of their
Heavenly Father after their own!" The reader
will be struck with the fact, that the clergy are
here represented to conceive of their Maker as a
Being resemblingthemselvesintheir temperament
and disposition. But this enormity, it is stated,
is the "consequence of their organization," and
they cannot help it. Indeed, so far from their
being implicated in criminality by thus misrepre-
senting their Heavenly Father,these well-meaning,
good-intentioned" class of men," commit this sin
" without knowing it." Indeed, but for the lights
of science, which the " philosophy of bumps" re-
flects upon the author's mind, "in consequence of
his organization," even he '' would not know it."
"Aed still be gazed-and still the wonder grew
How one email head could CIUTY all he knew !"
In relation to the "denouncing preachers," who
are here denounced, the reader will agree with
us, that whoever employs " coarse and vulgar
terms," "denunciatory and dogmatical language
in their preaching," and" mistakes the love of seo-
tariapism for that of Christianity," even though,
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 166
as the author alleges, they belong to a "great
class," such ministers are incapable of vindica-
tion. That the author has drawn largely upon
his morbific imagination for his facts, however, is
very apparent ; and this is a fault which is doubt-
less "a consequence of his organization," and he
commits it perpetually,like the preachers ofwhom
he speaks, "without knowing it."
But having initiated the clergy into the proper
books for their libraries, and given them his sage
counsels, "cautions," and admonitions, he now
proposes to correct the mistakes of their preach-
ing, by arguing that " Christianity is yielding to
the spirit of the age, and has become philosophi-
cal." He shrewdly reminds them, that "hereto-
fore it has been dogmatical, imperious, and immu-
talJle," but now, simultaneously with the appear-
ance of his book, we suppose, Christianity like all
other sUbjects, must submit itself to discussion,
analysis, and examination ; and what was before
·immutable," must, like all other subjects," become
mutable, and change with the spirit of the age•
.Hence, he talks not only of " philosophical Chris-
tianity," but the "democratic spirit of the gos-
pel," which, though a spirit, is not a supernatural
one ; for he stoutly maintains that " God has no
supernatural dealings with men."
Such preachers as he describes to be under the
influence of this ''democratic spirit," make the
people "fond of attending church on the Sabbath,
and the love and habit of attending is acquired ;
166 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
and this is beneficial to health, because a natural
want, the love o/ devotion, is thus gratified." Here
the author represents the love of church-going to
be a " natural want;" and yet he objects to their
"sermon hearing or chanting praises," or wor-
shipping any Deity but truth, charity, and self
denial, when they get there. Indeed, as he.repu-
diates all rites, all ceremonies, all forms, all psalm
singing, and all sermon reading or hearing, and
indeed all preaching, except in the " democratic
spirit," we can hardly conceive what kind of em-
ployment would occupy the time, or serve to
gratify this "natural want, the love of devotion,"
on the part of those who should become " fond of
attending church." It would never do to pray to
Christ, for this would be to worship Him, instead
of worshiping the virtues of which he was only the
personification. It would beside " excite the mind
and agitate the body," it would introduce "forms
and ceremonies," which are all unauthorized and
injurious to the health. And as for expecting any
other benefit from devotion, than gratifying the
natural want inspired by the religious sentiment,
this would be to admit what the author regards
as a most mischievous heresy, that "God has any
supernatural dealings with men."
And yet, the author professes to deprecate the
entire neglect of devotion, as almost as injurious
to health as religion itself, even as it is understood
and practised by the present generation ; and,
therefore it is, that he endeavors to enlighten the
REVIEW OF DR, BRIGHAM. 167
reader into the moderate and temperate use of
religious worship and devotional feelings, believ-
ing that these things are "beneficial if not carried
to an unreasonable extent." Whether any one
can learn from his book, what kind of religion or
devotional feelings he may cultivate, and to what
extent, without their becoming unhealthy, is a
question we leave to others for solution. For our-
selves, we are free to confess our fears that so far
as the author obtains the public confidence, we
believe the necessa~y and unavoidable tendency
of his book will be to create a contempt for reli-
gion and its ordinances, and strengthen the hands
of infidelity and sin. For, if the sentiments in-
culcated in this volume were to become general
or universal, the very name of religion would be-
come synonymous with infamy and reproach, and
the Bible, and the God of the Bible be everywhere
renounced.
The author concludes his volume, by a "brief
summary of some of the opinions he has endea-
vored to establish;" and, in stating these, we shall
accompany each of these six opinions with a brief
notice, which will be in effect a summary of the
contents of the present review. The following is
the summary of Dr. Brigham's opinions:
"First. The religious sentiment is innate in mao ;
"but as it often acts blindly, and to the injury of man;
"it needs the guidance of reason and knowledge.
'' Secondly. Christ established no ceremonies at all ;
"he exacted virtuous conduct, not the observance of
168 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
" rites. The reformation of Luther abolished some of
"the ceremonies that had been improperly ingrafted
"upon Christianity, but not all. 'l'hat they have ever
"been fruitful sources of discord, and ought to be re.
"linquished.
"Thirdly. Mankind are not at present under any
"kind of miraculous dispensation ; that God has no su.
"pernatural dealings with men, that we can observe ;
" and does not now impart the special influence of his
" Spirit to a few individuals and at particular times, as
"is claimed by modern revivalists. That this doctrine
"of revivalists, lies at the foundation of religious fana.
"ticism-is not essential to Christian faith or conduct,
"and if enforced by preachers and believed by the
" people, some form of this fanaticism willalwRys dis·
" turb the church and the world.
"Fourthly. That numerous meetings for religious
"purposes, night meetings, camp meetings, protracted
"meetings, &c., injure the health-cause insanity, and
''other diseases, and ought to be abandone.d as unscrip·
"tural, and very unreasonable in this Rge, when infor.
"' mation on all subjects can be obtained by reading.
· "That· they produce and perpetuate great excitement
" that is particularly dangerous to females, to mothers,
" and the rising generation.
" Fifthly. The Sabbath is a day of rest for man and
" beast, and ought to be so regarded in practice.
"Sixthly. That religious worship and the cultivation
" of devotional feelings are beneficial to man, when not
"carried to an unreasonable extent."*
• ·.a.. a celebrated phUoeopher obee"ed, " La devotion, est WI opiwn pour
l'ame, elle epre, anime, eo~&tient quand on en prend peu : Wle trop fort dooe
anclort, Oil read fucieu, Oil tile." ·
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 169
In reply to his first proposition, we think we
have shown, that whatever may be affirmed of
the phrenological "religious sentiment," religion
is not " innate in D,lan," and that so far from being
so, it is an effect of Divine influence, superindu-
ced in man by the agency of the Holy Ghost.
This, therefore, never "acts blindly and to the in-
jury of man ;" and so far from " needing the
guidance of reason and ksowledge," as the author
contends, true religion is itself the guide of both
reason and knowledge.
To his second opinion, we reply, that" baptism
and the Lord's Supper," though cererrwniu, as the
Scriptures prove, " established by Christ,'' and
"rites, the observance of which he enjoined,'' are
not the only "ceremonies and rites" which ha\e
the same authority. Public and private prayer,
watching, fasting, reading the Scriptures, atten-
dance upon the public and private ordinances of
religion, alms-giving, preaching, " sermon bear-
ing," and even "protracted meetings,"• are all .
rites and ceremonies, the observance of which
were enjoined by Christ and his Apostles, both
by precept and example. It is not true, there-
fore, that Lqther abolished any of the ceremonies
of Christianity which are properly such ; but he
restored those exclusively which Christ had estab-
* Witness the sermon on the mount, and the preaching of
Paul.from morning till evening, &c.
16
170 REVIEW 011 DR. BRIQILUf.
lish.ed. These have never been" fruitful sources
of discord," and though their relinquishment is
insisted on by the author, it is only because of the
delusion and~nfatuation under which he has had
the temerity to hazard the assertion, in the face of
the Bible, that " Christ established no ceremonies
atall!"
In relation to his third position, we maintain
that the Christian dispensation, like the Mosaic,
is strictly and essentially miraculou. in its origin,
nature, evidences, privileges, and effects. Was
not the incarnation of the Son of God, with all
the phenomena which accompanied, preceded,
and followed that stupendous event, truly " mi-
raculous ?" And is there nothing " miraculous"
in the events recorded by the Evangelists and
Apostles, as well as in the gift and preservationof
the volume of inspiration? And are not the pro-
mises of the gospel, as fulfilled and fulfilling in
these latter days, demonstrably "miraculous?"
How, then, does the author presume to say that
"mankind are not at present under any miracu-
lous dispensation?" He can only do so, either by
denying that they are at present under the Chris-
tian dispensation, or by maintaining that this is
not " miraculous;" and he is welcome to either
horn of the dilemma.
But he goes still farther, and asserts that " God
has no supernatural dealings with men, that we can
ob1erve !" thus denying at one fell swoop the im-
portant and scriptural doctrine of Divine Prol'i-
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 171
dence, as well as that of grace. Are not the
" dealings" of the Providence of God, as observ-
ed in the history of nations and individuals, evi-
dently " supernatural'" If they are not, then is
· the world governed by chance, and if there be a
God at all, or if the world had a Creator, as the
Father of all, he must have cast off the universe
he has made into an eternal orphanage, and the
millions of our race are without a Father, even in
heaven. Thus it is apparent, that if the author
was professedly a Christian when he expressed
this sentiment, his transition to the dark and
cheerless gulf of atheism, is not merely natural
and easy, but absolutely inevitable.
Again, he proceeds to affirm, in the same style
of dogmatism, that " God does not now, impart
the special influence of his Spirit to a few indi-
viduals, and at particular times, as is claimed by
modem revivalists." By the introduction of the
word now, he avoids the denial of the scriptural
narrative as to the events there related, and seem-
ingly admits thatformerly the Spirit was given, as
claimed. But he overlooks the fact, that he does
as effectually contradict the Bible, by denying
the fulfilment of its prophecies and promises, in
these latter days. Either the Spirit of God influ-
ences the hearts of men now, or it does not. If
it does not, the Bible is a "cunningly devised fa-
ble," and if it does, then if it influences any indi-
viduals, it must be" special;" nay, it must be im-
parted to some "particular individuals, and at
172 llBVlBW OF DR. BlliGHA:M.
particular times" if ever, unless indeed, he con-
tends that the impartation of the Spirit is univer-
sally the same upon all men, in its nature, extent,
and fruits. This he would scarcely venture to
affirm ; and if he did, a single glance at the con-
dition of the world, as shown in his own book,
would convict him of egregious folly. ·we need
hardly remind the reader of the positive assu-
rances given by Christ.to his disciples, of "the
gift of the Holy Spirit," and that He would " send
the Comforter," who would abide with His church
forever. Nor is it necessary to dwell upon the ex-
plicit language of the Savior, in explaining to
Nicodemus this " special influence" in regenera- ·
tion. " The wind bloweth where it listeth, thou
hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence
it cometh nor whither it goeth-so is every one
that is born df the Spirit.'' Here we are distinct-
ly taught that" the special influence of the Spirit"
is " imparted to particular persons, and at par-
ticular times, as cla~med by modern revivalists;"
unless the doctrine of the new birth is to be re-
jected as superannuate, and the author would have
us believe that this too is obsolete. But this sin-
gle text demonstrates that men are at present
under a " miraculous dispensation ;" that " God
has supernatural dealings with men," and that
"the special influence claimed is imparted." In
maintaining, as the author does, that this latter
doctrine " lies at the foundation of religious fanati-
cism," he charges upon the word of God, the en·
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. . 173
tire book of Revelation, the origination of fanati-
cism. And in deciding as he does, that it" is not
essential to Christian faith or conduct," he prO-
claims himself wiser than the Bible or the God of
the Bible ! A lamentable confirmation of the
inspired truth, that "the natural man receiveth
not the things of the Spirit of God, because they
are foolishness to him, neither can he knaw them!"
We now pass to the fourth proposition of thiiJ
summary; and, in reply, we think it has been
shown, that the author utterly fails in his labored
effort at proof, and furnishes no shadow of evi-
dence that the numerous meetings for religious
purposes, of which he complains, injure the
· health, and much less has he been able to prove that
they "cause insanity and other diseases." That
they are either " unscriptural" or "unreasonable
in this age," we trust has been sati!!factorily dis-
, proved. And indeed, every portion of this posi-
tion has been so fully considered in another place,
that we forbear to enlarge.
His fifth opinion, in relation to the Sabbath, is
aimed at all religious assemblies, and is designed
to oppose all "church going," "sermon hearing
or reading," as a disregard of this day of rest.
But while he thinks it ought to be regarded as
such both by man and beast, yet he denies that it
was divinely instituted as a day of rest, much less
for religious observances. Indeed, he has no ob-
jection to the violation of this rest both by man
to•
Jigitized 'YGoogle
174: JlEVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM.
and beast, ifthe riding is for recreation and " visit-
ing friends," instead of "church going." The
reader will find this subject sufficiently noticed in·
its appropriate place.
The sixth and last proposition is the most
extraordinary exhibition of inconsistency, and
though designed as a saving clause, yet in the
connection in which it is found, is superlatively
stupid. After objecting to all religious rites and
ceremonies of whatsoever kind, as "unscriptural
and unreasonable in this age," and indulging in a
satirical strain of ridicule in relation to every form
of devotion, he here admits, that " religious wor-
ship and the cultivation of devotional feelings are
beneficial to men, when not carried to an unreason-
a:ble extent." What kind of "religious worship''
could be performed without "ceremonies of any
kind," or of what use such worship, and the" cul-
tivation of devotional feeliugs," could be, when
"God has no supernatural dealings with men,"
the author does not condescend to enlighten us,
though he obviously means by their being bene-
ficial, that they would be healthy, in the way of
exercise to the body. Hence his caution that this
exercise be "not carried to an unreasonable ex-
tent," so as to induce fatigue, or" produce excite-
ment," or in the least to "agitate the body."
When these effects are produced, then worship
and devotional feelings become unreasonable.
The note which he appends, from " a celebrated
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM. 176
philosopher," and which he leaves untranslated,
may he thus rendered:
-:" Devotion is an opiate to the soul ; it flxcites,
·animates, and sustains, when taken in small quan-
t[ties; but too strong a dose produces stupor, mad-
ness, or death!"
This quotation is introduced in illustration of
the sentiment of the author, as expressed in his
sixth and last proposition. It is obviously equiv-
alent to the declaration that the influence of reli-
gion is purely and exclusively physical, analogous
to that of opium or any other similar narcotic,
precisely as set forth in the argument to which
allusion has been made, in relation to the resem-
blance between the effects of religious excitement
upon the brain, and those of alcohol upon the
stomach. And that this is unsophisticated materi-
alism and infidelity, will not admit of denial or
doubt. It represents religion, or what he regards
as synonymous, the religious sentiment, to be
"implanted in man by his Creator," and when
taken" in small quantities" to be healthy, since it
only " excites, animates, and sustains ;" but if
used in" too strong a dose," like opium, it is not
only unwholesome, but " produces stupor, mad-
ness, and death." He forgets, however, to fur-
nish any criterion, by which we may decide what
is the proper "dose," or degree of excitement
which is salutary and safe, unless by the expres-
sion, " when not carried to an unreasonable ex-
176 ItEVIEW OF DR. BliliGHA.M.
tent," which is a most ambiguous and uncertain
direction truly, and one utterly unintelligible.
But if we would examine his analogy phil~
sophically, we must remember that the effect of
opium when it excitu, and which effect is repre-
sented to be rational and healthy, is not only un-
natural and artificial, but is essentially morbid,
because produced by a poisonous 'agent, and this
is true of any quantity, however small, provided
it be sufficient to " excite, animate, and sustain."
And when too strong a dose be used, it does in-
deed "produce stupor, madness, and death,"
because it is a poison, unnatural, morbific, and
fatal in its nature and effects. And yet, religion
is here represented to be ''opium for the soul," an
unnatural poison, which may be used in small
quantities, with no other ill effects than " excite-
ment," which, on the subject of religion, is repre-
sented to be exceedingly dangerous ; for when
taken in too strong a dose, it results in "stupor,
madness,and death.'' Surely those who entertain
this doctrine for a moment, will perceive that in-
stead of a caution against indulging in this moral
opium "to an unreasonable extent," the dictate
of wisdom will obviously b~ to " flee from" reli-
gion, " as from the face of a serpent," and
" neither touch, taste nor handle the accursed
thing."
Soberly, if the author has fully adopted this
creed, he ought not to content himselfwith writing
this book, for humanity and philanthropy should
< .
..
RKV!EW" 01' .utt. BRIGHAM. 177
constrain him to a mightier effort for the reforma-
tion and salvation of his fellow beings. He should
forthwith institute an American and Foreign An-
ti-religion Society, and by multiplying branches
of it all over the world, he should rival the great
Temperance enterprize, in zeal and exertions.
Let him organize the society under a pledge of
"total abstinencet' from all religion, as the only
moral engine sufficiently potent to preserve the
human race from utter extermination. If it were
not presumptive to dictate to so great and puissant
a reformer, we would recommend a pledge some-
what like the following :
Whereas, " devotion is opium for the soul," and
" religion is one of the most fruitful sources of in-
sanity, convulsions, and death ;" and whereas,
" God has no supernatural dealings with men."
and "Christ established no ceremonies at all;"
and whereas, " numerous meetings for religious
purposes are unscriptural and very unreasonable
in this age," because they "produce excitement
most dangerous to health and life, especially to
females, to mothers and the rising generation ;"
and whereas, the Sabbath is a day of rest for
man and beast ; and the ringing of church bells
on that day, is injurious to health and life:
We, the undersigned, hereby pledge ourselves
that we will wholly abstain from all religion, inclu-
ding among the fruits of this moral " opium" all
178 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM,
" ckwrck going, JWilm singing, sermon kearing or
reading, protracted meetings, nigkt meetings, sunrise
prayer meetings, camp meetings, baptism, tke Lord's
Supper, ringing of bells,foriTl$, rites or ceremonies,"
which are " for religious purposes;" and believ-
ing that the dangers of "carrying devotion to an
unreasonable extent," and taking "too strong a
dose," can never be avoided, until religion and all
its means of "excitement are abandoned," we
will use our influence to inculcate " total absti-
nence" from it among the community.
Such appears to us to be an outline of the mea-
sures which Dr. Brigham is imperiously called
upon to adopt, on the presumption that the doc-
trines he here teaches, are entitled to his own be-
lief and confidence. Surely if a moiety of the
spectres he has conjured up, wherewith to portray
the dire calamities, with which religion is peren-
nially cursing our race, have any existence other
than in his morbidly vivid imagination, he should
forthwith proclaim a warof extermination against
this giant evil, and labor without weariness, and
without rest, for its immediate, instant abolition.
Nor need he "compass sea and land to make pro-
selytes;" for he will find them ready made to his
hand, wherever the "carnal mind, which is enmi-
ty against God" is discoverable, there will his
pledge be adopted by acclamation. " Wide is
the gate and broad is the way, and many there be
which go in thereat," "A. great multitude which
BBnBW 01' DR. BRIGILUI. 179
no man can number," in every nation, kindred,
people, and tongue; in every city, town, village,
and settlement in this and every other country,
will spontaneously marshal themselves under his
banner, and his society will be the most numerous
under heaven. In the membership of this Anti·
religion Society, he may calculate, in anticipa·
tion, on the great armyof infidels of every grade,
and all the profligate and abandoned, the profane
and the ungodly, the blaspheming and the drun..
ken ; for all these will be ex-officio entitled to
recognition, since they already practise on the
principle of total abstinence from all religion, and
will not need to sign the pledge, since their pre-
tensions will not be questioned, nor is there any
danger of their being suspected of its violation.
But, alas! he will find ready access for books and
newspapers and agents of this anti-religious cru·
sade, among the sons and daughters of folly and
fashion, the worldly and the formalists, the mo.
ralists and the hypocrites, and all who are forget·
ting God, and neglecting the1r souls; who restrain
prayer, and delay repentance; and who seek and
need just such arguments as he urges, to quiet
conscience, and arm them against the truth. And
the rising generation, whose licentious passions
cannot brook restraint, multitudes of whom desire
deliverance from the bonds, which religious edu·
cation bas imposed, that they may "throw the
180 REVIEW OF DR. BRIGJUM.
reins upon the neck of headlong appetite," will
find an asylum in the Anti-religion society which
they have heretofore sought in vain,
But we forbear to dwell upon the deplorable
moral influence, which the sentiments under no-
tice, are calculated to exert upon individuals, and
upon the community. And it is with the hum-
ble hope of contributing in some measure to coun-
teract their pernicious and mischievous tendency,
.that these strictures have been prepared for pub-
lication. It is true that the author has expressed
his confidence that all the " intelligent" members
.of the medical profession, will approve of the
medical doctrines he has advanced; and the fact
that we gainsay them, and attempt to prove that
they are fallacious and unphilosophical, will in-
volve in his estimation the forfeiture of our claim
·to be ranked among "intelligent" men; yet, at the
expense ofbeingdenounced in the elegantlanguage
selected by himself, as "muddle pated, narrow
minded, bigoted, enthusiastic, and perhaps hypo-
critical;" and at the risk of being written down
among "the psalm singers of the profession,"
who "if sincere are fools, and if not so rogues,"
we have ventured upon this feeble effort to expose
error, and to vindicate truth, especially as the
subject is one which involves the immortal hopes
and everlasting destinies of men. And firmly
believing as we do, that the religion of Christ is a
Divine reality, however unworthy to bear His
REVIEW OF DR. BRIGHAM· 181
name, we are not ashamed to confess our faith in
the "special influence of the Holy Spirit," with
as much confidence as in a " special Providence,"
both of which doctrines we hold on the testimony
of inspiration. With such belief, whether true or
false, the Divine guidance has been sought, and
the Divine blessing is now implored upon the
present publication; and though Dr. Brigham's
creed may constrain him to despise us therefor,
yet for none is that blessing sought more devoutly
than for him, that he may be "converted from the
error of his way," by the agency of that Holy
Spirit, whom he contemns, and whose "special
influence" he denies. That truth may be promo-
ted, and the cause of religion advanced, is of in-
finitely more importance than the decision of the
question of the comparative qualifications of the
disputants. This reply, therefore, is issued from
the press, without any overweening anxiety as to
the fate of the author among the critics of the day.
If it shall be useful to the souls and bodies of
men, and in any measure prevent the disastrous
results which flow from infidelity and irreligion,
he will deem self an insignificant sacrifice in a
cause so exalted.·
16
.,
APPENDIX.
IN the vindication of religion from the allegations of
Dr. Brigham, which is attempted in the preceding
pages, and which indeed is the leading design of the
present review, the author has taken occasion to show
that the infidel and irreligious tendencies of the senti.
ments upon which he has animadverted, are the legiti·
mate fruits of Phrenology. But those of the sect, who
retain their respect for the " science, falsely so called,"
and at the same time adhere to their faith in evangeli.
cal religion, will deny the conclusion to which we have
labored to bring the reader, and maintain that we have
only proved that infidels are attempting to make the
system tributary to their unhallowed purposes. Such
we know has been uniformly the employment of sceptics
in every age, and no sooner has any new discovery in
science, or new system of philosophy been announced,
than they at once aim to bring it into their service ;
and profess, however absurdly, to derive valuable con·
tributions to their cause, from every improvement in
physics, which the genius or industry of man is deve.
loping. But, however plausibly this opi,nion may be
urged, by those who agree with the strictures of the
present volume, so far as to unite in reprobating the in.
fidel and irreligious tendencies ofthe work under notice,
and yet allege these to be perversions of phrenology,
''9'tized by GoogIe
184- APPENDIX.
rather than exhibitions of its nature and tendency ; we
must still maintain the opinions we have expressed,
and for their proof, we have thought proper to add the
present brief appendix, the design of which is to ac-
quaint the reader with the true character of the
"science," that he may form his own estimate of the
moral tendencies which we have ascribed to it.
J»hrenology, as the system is now designated, has
been modernized,* and introduced formally to public
attention, chiefly through the labors of Dr. Gall, and
was called by him cranioscopy, craniology, organology,
cranognomony and cepluilology; though the term phre·
nology is now generally adopted by the unanimous con-
sent of his disciples. He designs by the term cranios-
copy or phrenology, to designate a new system of
mental philosophy, including the functions of the brain,
as well ns all the faculties, propensities, and sentiments:
and one which shall be alike applicable to man and all
other animals, and he builds his whole fabric on the fol.
lowing four " primordial ideas," viz.
1st. " All the instincts, propensities, intellectual fa·
culties, and moral qualities of man and animals, are
innate."
2nd. "That the exercise or use of all these, what-
ever may be the principle from which they are derived,
is subject to the influence of material and organic con·
ditions."
* I say mod.:rnized, for an analogous system was propagated
centuries before him, and busts, with the supposed scats of the
various faculti c3 marked, were engraved and published. The
gross materialism of the theory, however, very soon consigned
it to oblivion.
APPENDIX. 185
3rd. "That.the brainis the organ of all our instincts,
propensities, sentiments, aptitudes, intellectual faculties,
and moral qualities."
4th. "That each of our instincts, propensities, sen.
timents, talents, intellectual and moral faculties, has a
portio~~ of the brain, which is 1pecially appropriated to
it ; a determinate seat, and that the developement of these
different parts, whicll form so many small brains, or par-
ticular organs, is manifested on, the external surface of
the cranium, by visible and palpable signs or protube·
ranees, so that by the examination of these protuberances
or cranioscopic elevations, the dispos-'.tions, and intellec.
tual and moral qualities, peculiar to every individual,
may be ascertained."
In these four " primordial ideas," the reader has a
sketch of the fundamental principles upon which Dr.
Gall founded his system, and in the progress of the
science to the present day, they have not been essential.
ly modified. The arguments by which his disciples
have labored to render these principles plausible are
various, and drawn from anatomy, physiology, and meta.
physics. The intricate and complicated structure of
the brain, and particularly its elaborate and mysterious
convolutions, are regarded as proofs that so beautiful
and inexplicable an organization, renders it both ra.
tional and probable, that its different parts must be des·
tined for special and determinate functions. And if we
refer the whole of the impressions made upon the mind,
through the medium of the nerves to any central or
given point of the brain, it is alleged that we can con.
ceive no possible use for the remaining parts of that
organ. The. partial loss of the mental faculties, which
16*
166 APPENDIX.
sometimes occurs, from disease or injury of the brain,
is maintained to favor the doctrine that these faculties
are distributed over different parts of that organ. While
the fact, that the various nerves connected with the or-
gans of sense, perform essentially different offices, is
urged as an analogical argument in proof, that the dif-
ferent convolutions of d1e brain are the organs of the
respective mental functions. And again, it is main-
tained, that the perfection of the brain corresponds to
the state of the mental faculties in the different periods
of life ; and a necessary connexion must be supposed
between these circumstances. While the difference in
the form and size of the brain and its respective parts•
which is so obvious in different individuals and animals-,
renders it plausible to suppose this to be the cause of the
differences which exist in the faculties. Aud it is still
further urged, that when the exercise of the mental
powers is attended with fatigue, this sensation is only
felt in a particular spot, which implies that the faculty
,..-hich has been exercised is confined to that particular
portion of the brain. And the innate nature of all the
dispositions and mentnl filculties, which is presupposed
by the system, it is argued, proves that they must be
attached to different organs, unless we deny that they
exist in different proportions in different individuals.
Such are the principal arguments by which modern
phrenologists labor to sustain their favorite theory; and
with these, as well as the "primordial ideas" of Dr.
Gall before the reader, he may form an accurate con-
ception of the system, and be able to understand the
authorities for the "map of regions," which has been
laid down on the surface of the head, by which the va.
rious faculties and propensities are located. This mny
APPENDIX. 181
be seen in the various busts and drawings, which are
sufficiently numerous in every part of the country, and
which are potent in making uninitiated rustics stare and
wonder at the mysteries of the philosophy of their own
brains.
The reader will perceive that Phrenology is only an
extension of the science of Physiognomy, though pos.
sessing infinitely less philosophy and truth. For while
Lavater interpreted the expression and form of the
countenance, as indicative of the mental constitution and
character, yet he relied upon the visible and tangible
action of the muscles of the face, which, to a great ex·
/ tent, are acknowledged to be under the influence of
volition and habit. But Dr. Gall relies upon the invisi•.
ble and intangible action, which he gratuitOusly- sup.
poses the brain to perform, and which, if it really
existed, must necessarily be unappreciable, because of
the solidity and thickness of the bones of the cranium,
after the age of puberty, although he and his disciples
contend for the validity of their maps of developments,
during every period of life, even to advanced age. And
the important circumstance, so often mentioned, that the
departments of the brain, which Phrenology designates
with so much accuracy and minuteness, neither agree
with the natural divisions of the brain, which are sore·
markable, nor with the metaphysical classification of
the mental phenomena, has neither been gainsayed nor
refuted.
It is not our purpose to analyze the principles of
the science, or examine the arguments by which its pro·
fessors aim to Rupport it with any minuteness, as this
would be foreign from the design of this appendix: nor
is it at all desirable or necessary, as will presently all·
188 .APPENDIX.
pear. For even, on the admiuion ()f the whole of the
'!primordial ideas" we have named, though the third in
the order they stand, is the only one which has any
share of plausibility or truth, still it would be easy to
show that the artificial division and appropriation of the
functions, to distinct localities, as taught by Phrenology,
is wholly arbitrary and fictitious. This will be obvious,
when the reader is informed that the first grand disco-
very of Dr. Gall, and which has led to the whole of
the numbers and localities which the maps of the re-
gions exhibit, as subsequently laid down by himself and
others, was made under the following circumstances.
He observed, while yet at school, that all his fellows
who were distinguished at the public examinations, were
indebted for their success to an extraordinary memory,
and that they all had very prominent eyes. This re·
markable coincidence, led him irresistibly to the con-
clusion, that there must be some mysterious connection
between a good memory and a protrusion of the eye-balls
from the socket, such as that for which some persons
are so remarkable. And, on this momentous thought
having taken possession of his brain, at once he leaped
to the still farther conclusion, that every other faculty
must be connected with other external conformations.
But for this accidental di!!covery of the organ of
memory, being located in the eyes, and its perfection be-
ing developed by their size and prominence, the world
might have yet been in the .dark whether we had any
"organs," nor should we be possessed of a map of our
owri brains, which is now, thanks to Dr. Gall, the privi.
lege of every man and woman in Christendom.
But while Dr. Gall located this organ of memory in
the eyes, his pupil, Dr. Spurzhcim, denominates it "the
..A.PPENDIL 189
organ of language," by which term he means to convey
the id'ea, tf.at " prominent eyes" indicate not only phi-
lological memory, but an aptitude for the study of lan-
guages. All phrenologists agree in attributing the
faculty of speech, and the power of articulating sounds
tQ the eyes, and great skill in the use of language to their
prominence. And Dr. Gall used to exhibit in proof of
this ridiculous conceit, the cranium of a lunatic who
was unable to articulate words, in whicli the roofs of
the orbits were arched, and this organ small, or, in other
words, the eyes were not prominent.
As this faculty is avowetlly the origin of all the dis·
coveries made by Gall, and the cause of all his
researches, as well as the foundation of the whole
science of Phrenology, the reader who will acquaint '
himself with the anatomy of the eye, and the causes of
its prominence, may readily satisfy himself that this
" corner stone" oflhe entire edifice is a mere fiction and
fable. Nor can he persuade himself to believe that the
structure and relative position ofthe human eye, while it
is so admirably adapted by the Creator for the purposes
of vision, is at the same time designed to impart the
faculty of speech, and the articulation of sounds, for
which it has no degree of adaptation, while locally dis-
connected with those organs, whose elaborate structure
indicates their design and use for this important and
essentially different function. And yet all the phrenolo·
gical authorities will be found to inculcate the doctrine,
that " large and prominent eyes" indicate the deve!OJI•
ment of "the organ of memory and language," though
Spurzheim is so very particular as to inform us that for
the perfection of this organ we are to look, not merely
for "large and prominent eyes, but at the same time,
190
pressed, tu it tcere! towards the lo~erp'art.of the orbit,"
a coincidence which will be found in practi;e to be as.
scarce as instances of tchite cr011Js. This appendage of
Spurzheim, appears to have been designed to meet the
objections to the science which were constantly ~ulti.
plying upon the hands of practitioners in this art anti
mystery, who found thousands of examples, in which
"large and prominent flyes," were .connected with a
deficiency both in "memory and language." He, there·
fore, adds to the description of the organ that the " large
and prominent eyes must, at the same time, he pressed
towards the lower part of,the orbit," and the convenient
words "as it tcere," are parenthetically introduced for
wise and obvious purposes. With such an equivocal
definition of .signs, a common fortune teller would rival
the most acute phrenologist in developing character.
And, we need hardly add, that as the " science" is as
applicable to all other animals as man, that no human
example of the perfect development of " the organ of
languages and memory" can be produced, which will
at all compare with the claims possessed by an OwL.
W.e have dwelt a moment oh this first discovery of
Dr. Gall, because it was the origin and cause of all his
researches, the primum mobile of the whole machinery
of the system. And as this philosopher was impelled
by so pure a fiction, to proceed in the location of the
faculties nnd propensities in the various parts of the
brain, it is not to be wondered at, that the divisions which
he and his followers have suecessivcly discovered, mark.
ed, and numbered upon their maps and casts, should,
like the first, be wholly arbitrary; nor will it be found,
that any one of them possesses any greater claim to our
confidence, either drawn from philosophy or facts,
...
. Al'l'EMD~ 191
th~ugh !)f the latter they are ever proclaiming them-
sel.¥6s the discoveren and inventors, and upon these
alone they profes~Jfo rely.
Another specimen of the facts, upon which Phre-
nology has authoritatively located the "organs" of the
human mind, and an exhibition of the slender basis on
which these localities rest, may be seen in the "love of
offspring," which Spurzheim calls the propensity of
"phil.oprogeniliveness, and which both he and his illus-
trious master, place in the posterior and inferior part of
the head, and when much developed forming a large
prominence above the ceutre of tbe neck.
The reader must preserve his gravity, while the his-
tory of this " discovery" is thus accurately developed
by a distinguished phrenologist. "Dr. Gall had long
known that the back part of the head was more promi-
nent in females, children, and monkeys, than in men, but
was utterly unable to account for this wondrous fact,
even after be bad long believed and taught the science.
At last, however, a clergyman who attended his lectures,
led him to the true solution of this problem, which had
so long puzzled his brains, by reminding him that the
' love of offspring' was remarkable in tcomen! and
female monkeys!" This striking collocation and astoni.
shing coincidence, conclusively established the organ
of "philoprogenitiveness," as it is now called; and it
has since received conclusive confirmation by another
prodigiousfact, discovered by the lamented Spurzheim,
that it is this organ which induces ytJung girl1 to play
IDith dolls!
Such are a few examples of the facts upon which
every" faculty, propensity, and sentiment" of man and
all other aaimals, have been laid down in mapa of the
199 APPENDIX.
brain, with more than mathematical precision ; and they
and their definite localities are now learnedly spoken of
with magisterial authority. But we forbear to enlarge
on these several topics, and shall confine our observa·
tions to a few of those which present the science in its
moral aspect, and, as we think, demonstrate its infidel
tendencies. And the first of these we would present,
is the " organ of moral sense," or " benevolence;" for
these dispositions, according to the system, are owing to
the" developeroent" on the "superior, anterior part of
the head, just above the forehead."· Erom the univer-
sal presence of this "organ," phrenologists maintain
that "man is naturally good," and that "the question so
often agitated among philosophers, whether roan is born
with a disposition to good or evil," has been settled de.
finitely by the "science." It is scarcely necessary to
any, that the authority of revelation is here utterly re-
jected, and the multiplied testimonies of the Bible
denied ; nor need we add, that the history of every
nation under heaven, demonstrates the fallacy of the
position, and of the system which inculcates it.
Immedie.tely in a neighboring locality, on the upper
part of the head, is the "organ of maMJellousness," or
"the love of supernatural objects," while near the crown of
'be head is the "organ of theosophy," which Spurzheim
divides into three "organs," viz. "veneration," "con·
1cientioumess," and" hope." Upon these several organs
depend, according to the system, the dispositions to see
and·believe in visions, ghoits, witches, and supernatural
revelations, together with aU belief in the eri&tence of a
God, all idea of a Supreme Being, all propensity to.
wards·tDOrship, devotion, piety, love of God, idolatry, &c.
&c. And i' can scarcely be necessary to remark, that
APPBNDD:. 193
this single fact-that all these diuimilar and even oppo·
site sentiments, in which good and evil, virtue and vice,
reality and delusion, truth, and falsehood, are mingled
in heterogeneous combination, and yet all ascribed to
the same "organs" and" developments"-is enough to
brand the system which recognizes such absurdity, not
merely with infidel character and tendency, but with
profound stupidity and folly. And to exhibit the immo-
rality of such a vile imposture upon public credulity, if it
were at all needful, would be easy, by simply repeating
the opinions of Gall and Spurzheim, in their arguments
in favor of the validity of their designation of these
organs. Alluding to those who believe in ghosts, vi·
sions, and witches, and indeed in any supernatural reve-
lations, they tell us, that " this disposition which loves
what is astonishing, mysterious, or miraculous, is the
immediate result of a particular organization; and it
would be as unjust to accuse those endowed with it, of
imposture, as it would be to censure poets for embody·
ing and personifying their ideae, for they are only the
slaves of a too energetic action ofone partofthe brain."
If this be not sublimated impiety, materialism, and fa. •
talism, we know not where these characteristics are to
be found ; and that such sentiments annihilate all moral
distinctions between truth and falsehood, vice and vir·
tue, is too obvious to need comment. And yet, they go
en to tell us, that in the crllation of the organ of marvel-
lousness, NATURE had views and intentions, which serve
to strengthen our faith.and fortify our belief, and thus
nature, not the "God of nature," is represented to be
the " author of faith."
But, in relation to the "organ of theosophy," or
veneration," these phrenolo~ists more distinctly disclose
17
194 AFPENDIX.
their gross and unmingled atheism. Here we are
taught that "some persons, for want of this organ; have
no capacity for religious instruction, while others,. who
possess the organ, receive it with the greatest eager-
lless ;" and surely if there be those who have "no ca.
pacity" for religion,.because of their" physical organi.
zntion," their accountability is annihilated, and those
who are religious, because of a different organization,
are equally \'ictims of uncontrollable destiny, nor can
virtue or vice be predicated in either case. Indeed, all
this and more, is unblushingly avowed; for they affirm
that "our ideas on all subjects depend on our being fur-
ni!lhed with organs to originate, or to give birth to them,
nnd we have an idea of God, as we have love of off-
spring, benevolence, &c., because we have an organ
fitted for such a purpose." And still thAy maintain that
man wherever he is found has the "organ of theosophy,"
and hence a" sentiment of the existence of the Divini-
ty· is im1ate, and inherent ,in our nature." And yet they
4dd, that there is a great difference between this senti·
ment and the revelation•, dogmas, mysteries, &c., of
different religious sects. /And it is obvious, that the
revelations of Christianity, and of the Bible, are here
aimed at as among the religious sects, whose dogmas
and mysteries Phrenology disclaims. This disclaimer
.~ight have been spared, however, since there is a mu-
tual and irrepressible .repulsion, which must eternally
. aeparate Phrenol~gy from Christianity ; and, we think,
(\ suffi.<Ment evidence is now before the reader, that from
~the nature of this science, falsely eo ealled, its votaries
must not only believe ours to be literally "a world with-
out •oula," but equally "wi_thout God."
The spuree whence Dr. Brigham derived the philo-
APPENDIX. 195
~:~ophy and creed, under the malign influence of which
his book was written, is now plainly before the reader,
as well as the proof of our allegations, that the evil )
genius or Phrenology, like a. mighty incubus, sits en-
~hroned upon his soul.
