{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__mermet___principles_and_practice_radiesthesia.pdf","mytitle":"Principles And Practice Radiesthesia","mylang":"de"}
P R I N C I P L E S A N D
P R A C T I C E OF
R A D I E S T H E S I A
BY
ABBE MERMET
A T E X T B O O K F O R P R A C T I T I O N E R S
A N D S T U D E N T S
T R A N S L A T E D F R O M T H E F R E N C H
BY M A R K C L E M E N T
L O N D O N
V I N C E N T S T U A R T L T D
t
CO PYRIGH T BY ABBE M ERM ET 1 9 3 £
TOUS DROITS DE TRAD UCTIO N , DE REPRO D U CTIO N
ET D*ADAPTATION, APPARTENANT AUX EDITIONS
MAISON DE LA RADIESTHESIE
RESERVES PO U R TOUS PAYS
THIS TRANSLATION
FIRST PUBLISHED IN 19 ^ 9
(g) VINCENT STUART PUBLISHERS LIMITED
W ELBECK STREET LONDON W . I
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY RO BERT CUNNINGH AM AND SONS LTD
LO NGBANK W ORKS
ALVA
DIAGRAM S BY D. BELL-SCOTT
TO MY FATHER
DANIEL III
Cantique des Trois Enfants
Sources etJontaines
Benissez le Seigneur;
Forces inconnues
Benissez le Seigneur;
Et vous toutes,oeuvres de Dieuy
Benissez le Seigneur.
Before the phenomena o f
nature it is necessary to
observe,to study and to
be astonished by .
Leibnitz
LETTER FROM THE VATICAN
7 would have written toyou much sooner had it not
been that 1 was required to attend an audience o f the
Sovereign Pontifffo r the purpose o f explaining to
Him personally the nature o f the researches to which
the members o fyour Association are dedicated, and to
tell His Holiness o fyour wish to havefo r the officers
o fyour Association, andfo r its activities, the Apos­
tolic Blessing. The H oly Father was touched by the
sentiments expressed in your letter, and has charged
me to communicate toyou His Paternal Blessing.
7 should add that the Sovereign Pontiff has kept
the last number o f the Bulletin o fyour Association
that I brought with me to the audience, so as to be
able to examine it at his leisure. ’
A letter written in May 19 35 by Mgr Eugene
Tisserand, Prefect of the Vatican Library, to
Monsieur Delattre, Secretary General of the
Society, Amis de la Radiesthesie.
Contents
page
LIST OF FIGURES IN TEXT II
t r a n s l a t o r ’s in t r o d u c t io n 13
PREFACE 17
A NOTE ON THE SCIENTIFIC ASPECT OF RADIESTHESIA
(Lakhovsky’s Theory) 24
PART O N E: THE ELEM ENTS OF RADIESTHESIA
I FUNDAMENTAL HYPOTHESIS 27
ii t h e r o l e o f t h e p e n d u l u m , i Definition: 2 29
Substance: 3 Shape: 4 Weight: 3 The chain
and its regulation: 6 Effect of colours: 7 Tem­
perature: 8 Movements: 9 Correct manner of
holding pendulum: 1o Pendulum and ro d : 11
My ‘sample’ pendulum (patented).
III THE UNCONSCIOUS ROLE OF THE ORGANISM 36
i The body as conductor: 2 The sympathetic
nervous system: 3 Who can be a radiesthetist?:
4 Can the science of radiesthesia be taught?
IV THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL. I Undula- 39
tions or radiations: 2 Radiesthetic field: 3
Magnetic surfaces and lines of force: 4 Funda­
mental ray: 3 Mental ray, the brain as receiv­
ing station: 6 Luminous ray: 7 Witness ray:
8 Vertical column: 9 Radiesthetic images: 10
Serial numbers and direction of rotation:
11 Spirals: 12 Pendular designs: 13 Variations
in weight: 14 Fading.
v so m e e x p e r im e n t s , i Branly’s experiment: 2 38
Mirror experiment: 3 Prism experiment: 4
Lens experiment: 3 The case of comers.
7
C ON TENTS
vi w a t e r a n d c a v it ie s, i Radicsthetic field of 64
water: 2 Circulation of water: 3 Drinking
w ater: 4 Mineral waters: £ Impure waters:
6 Ice: 7 Clouds: 8 Cavities: 9 Absolute vac­
uum: 10 Subterranean cavities.
vii o t h e r liq u id s a n d g a ses, i Petroleum: 2 8$
Cases of petroleum prospection: 3 Gases: 4
W ine: £ Liqueurs: 6 Milk.
vm m eta llo id s, m eta ls a n d o t h e r b o d ies. 1 93
Table of serial numbers and fundamental rays:
2 Cases of prospection: A Salt, B Sulphate of
magnesium, C Iron, D Coal, E Other bodies.
ix g o l d . 1 Characteristics of radiesthetic field: 10 1
2 Table giving lengths of fundamental ray as
function of weight: 3 Magnetic images of gold:
4 Demonstrations.
PART T W O : RADIESTHESIA ON SITE
X PRACTICAL PROSPECTION FOR WATER AND 108
in a n im a t e b o d ies, i First method, lines of
force: 2 How to distinguish magnetic images
from real objects: 3 Second method, the lum­
inous ray: 4 Third method, the mental ray:
£ Fourth method, directed oscillations, or
intersection method: 6 Detection of distance:
7 Detection of distance and depth: 8 Rapid
method for detecting depth: 9 Plumb-line
method for detecting depth: 10 Estimating
output: 11 Detecting direction of flow: 12
Detecting pressure: 13 Temperature of water:
14 Working from the depths towards the sur­
face: i£ General application of methods: 16
Witness method: 17 Conclusion.
8
C O N TEN TS
xi ca u ses o f e r r o r s , i Errors due to the pendu- 12 1
lum: 2 Errors due to the human organism: 3
Errors due to the mental state: 4 Errors due to
bodies or their radiesthetic field: $ Errors due
to erroneous interpretation: 6 Errors due to
bystanders: 7 Conclusion.
PART TH REE:
TELERADIESTHESIA O R DISTANT PROSPECTION
xn d ista n c e n o b a r r ie r , i Principles: 2 First 126
steps in distant prospection.
xiii ex a m ples o f d ista n t p r o s p e c t io n . 1 W ater: 13 3
2 Underground cavities and buried objects:
3 Petroleum: 4 Gases: 5 Minerals and hidden
treasure: 6 A North Pole tragedy and Abbe
Mermet.
XIV EXPERIMENTS FOR BEGINNERS. I By Contact: 163
2 Without contact, by means of fundamental
ray: 3 Without contact, by means of solar ray:
4 Without contact, by means of capital ray:
$ Prospection on photographs: 6 Prospection
on maps: 7 Useful experiments.
PART FO U R : RADIATIONS OF LIVING BEINGS
xv p e n d u l a r d ia g n o sis, i Origin: 2 Main feat- 167
ures: 3 Cases of pendular diagnosis: 4 The
growing use of medical radiesthesia.
xvi h a r m fu l r a d ia t io n s, i An important appli- 176
cation of radiesthesia to medicine: 2 An ex­
ample: 3 Causes of harmful radiations.
xvn selec tio n o f su ita b le r em ed ies 18 1
9
C ONTENTS
XVIII RADIESTHETIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MAN. I 182
Serial numbers and rotational directions: 2
Remanent radiations.
XIX MEASURING THE POWER OF INTELLECTUAL FACUL- I 84
ties i The Possibilities: 2 Table of higher
faculties of some great musicians.
PART FIVE:
TELEDIAGNOSIS OR DISTANT BIOLOGICAL DETECTIO N
xx te le d ia g n o sis, i Principles: 2 Cases of diag- 186
nosis by means of photographs: 3 A case of
diagnosis by means of a signature: 4 Cases of
distant diagnosis without any material contact:
3 Remedies are everywhere within our reach:
6 Important note on pendular diagnosis: 7
Further cases of telediagnosis.
xxi t r a c in g m issing p e r so n s. 1 Procedure: 2 A 196
tribute from Geneva: 3 Cases of missing per­
sons traced by radiesthesia (19 33 -19 3 6 ): 4 Ex­
tract from Homoepathie Moderne, 1st July 1933:
£ Final note.
CONCLUSION - MY TESTAMENT AS A RADIESTHETIST 2 I 8
APPENDIX 2 2 I
A BRIEF GLOSSARY 2 23
BIBLIOGRAPHY 2 2 £
INDEX 229
IO
I
2
3
4
S
6
7
8
9
io
11
I 2
1 3
* 4
I S
1 6
1 7
i 8
List of Figures
Abbe Mermet’s Pendulum
Lines offorce with a vertical column of water
Lines o fforce with a subterranean stream
The solar raj experiment (i)
The solar raj experiment (2)
Aspects of radiestheticfe ld
Serial number ofgold
Spirals above and below horizontal plane
Mirror experiment (i )
Mirror experiment (2)
Prism experiment
Lens experiment
Effects o f corners (1)
Effects of corners (2)
The cross o fgold (1)
The cross ofgold (2)
The detection of water
The measurement of depth
1 1
TRANSLATOR’S INTRODUCTION
R
ADIESTHESIA seems to be a strange word to most people
kon both sides of the Atlantic. On the Continent, however,
every educated man knows what it means and the literature on
the subject is both extensive and popular, especially in France,
Belgium and Italy, where masters of the art and science of
Radiesthesia have been practising it successfully for the last few
decades.
Abbe Mermet had the satisfaction of being acclaimed during
his lifetime as the ‘ King of dowsers’ , not only in France but all
over the continent of Europe. He was one of the few prophets
who gained recognition in his own country. Wherever he went
he made an unforgettable impression, not only by virtue of his
amazing practical results, but also by his unfailing willingness
to help those in need of such material things as water and coal,
and those in distress about missing relatives whom he invariably
traced. And he did it all with a modesty akin to saintliness. He
was indeed a priest who had found his real vocation.
All kinds and conditions of men consulted him from various
parts of the world. A poor distressed widow in France, whose
son had been missing for some tim e; the chief engineer of the
world-famous firm of Suchard in Switzerland; a missionary in
South America; and even the Pope himself, who took a great
interest in his work, all appealed to him for help and guidance
to solve problems which had left experts and specialists com­
pletely baffled. And never did anyone appeal to him in vain.
Abbe Mermet almost invariably gave the final and true answer
without any thought of pecuniary reward.
Not only did he establish Radiesthesia on a sound practical
basis but he raised it to the level of a new science, making
people realise, in the words of Shakespeare, that ‘There are
more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophy.’
3
Radiesthesia may be defined as sensitivity to radiations. And
every one without exception is sensitive to them. It is only a
question of degiee. The word ‘dowsing’ is the nearest equi­
valent to Radiesthesia, but whereas dowsing is confined to
searching for latent water or minerals with a divining rod or
pendulum, Radiesthesia covers the whole field of radiations
from any source, living or inert. O f late years, Teleradiesthesia,
which is prospection at a distance, has made great strides and
the subject is fully dealt with in the third part of the present
work.
In this country, we have had some notable medical pion­
eers in Radiesthesia, who unfortunately are no longer with us.
Special tribute should be paid to Drs E. W . Martin, W . Guyon
Richards, E. T. Jensen, Hector Munro, Dudley d’Auvergne
Wright, to mention but the leading ones. There are now
quite a number of medical men who use Radiesthesia in their
practice. Indeed, we have a Medical Society for the Study of
Radiesthesia in London which publishes a quarterly journal.
This Society welcomes any qualified medical man with an open
mind on the subject, who wants to become familiar with this
fundamental approach to the nature of health and disease so
that the knowledge now acquired may be used both for
diagnosis and treatment.
Many important works on Radiesthesia have been written by
Continental medical men, engineers and chemists. In this coun­
try, we have a few eminent medical radiesthetists and quite a
number of distinguished amateurs. But none has ventured to
write an authoritative work on Radiesthesia for the guidance
of the medical profession and especially the general public.
The translation into English of such a greatly needed work is
indeed overdue, and the publishers have been fortunate in secur­
ing the rights of what is generally regarded as the great classic
work on Radiesthesia, namely the present textbook written by
the late Abbe Mermet. Not only is it a work indispensable to
any student or practitioner of Radiesthesia, but it is also a per­
ennial. The first edition was published before the war and it
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
i4
T R A N S L A T O R ’ S IN TRODUCTION
has been constantly revised and reprinted ever since, the latest
edition having appeared as recently as 1957.
In France, Abbe Mermet’s work has been awarded a prize by
the National Society for the Encouragement of Public Welfare.
His remarkable achievements have often been reported in the
French Press and in particular his ‘ Psychic Radiesthesia’ which
enabled him to discover fields of petroleum in Africa, Galicia
and other parts of the world by distant prospection. He was
consulted by the Vatican authorities for important archaeo­
logical researches in Rome, all of which met with success. The
records are in the Archives of the Vatican Library.
Over £0,000 copies of Abbe Mermet’s work on Radiesthesia
have been sold and it shows no sign of being in the least out of
date. Abbe Mermet called it his testament and at long last we,
in this country, are called to be its legatees.
The nature of Radiesthesia has not yet been finally elucidated
but its practical results have been so firmly established by a
host of reputable research workers that a sceptical attitude, or
unwillingness to investigate, is no longer justified.
W e do not understand the nature of electricity but we go on
using it simply because experience lias shown that it works.
Similarly with Radiesthesia. Preconceived ideas and prejudices
due to our present imperfect knowledge of scientific laws can
only hinder human progress. W e must approach Radiesthesia
with an open mind for, after all, it is the results that count.
And here we have the finest possible opportunity of studying
the most comprehensive work that has yet been written on
Radiesthesia, based as it is on forty years’ practical experience.
One of the greatest scientists of our time, Dr Alexis Carrel,
Nobel Laureate, and perhaps the most famous research worker
that the Rockefeller Institute in New York has ever had, real­
ised the importance of Radiesthesia over thirty years ago, and
expressed his opinion in the following w ords: ‘ The physician
must detect in every patient the characteristics of his individu­
ality, his resistance to the cause of the disease, his sensitivity to
pain, the state of all his organic functions, his past as well as
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
his future. He must keep an open mind free from personal
assumptions that certain unorthodox methods of investigation
are useless. Therefore he should remember that Radiesthesia
is worthy of serious consideration.’
This translation is the English version of the posthumous
and definitive French edition, published in Paris in 1957, and
includes all the essential data concerning experiments and pro-
spections which appeared in the preceding editions.
Some technical and unusual words are fully explained in the
Glossary.
6
PREFACE
N
O man can give more than what he has and therefore one
must not expect an author to impart more knowledge than
he possesses. Thus at the outset of a new work it should be care­
fully specified what is involved and what is not. In this par­
ticular case we are dealing with the subject of Radies-
thesia, often called the art of dowsing. I have not attempted
to present a synthesis of other methods but only to give a
detailed exposition of one method among others, namely
my own.
The reader will not find any elaborate explanation in these
pages. One’s intelligence, ever eager to find out truth, and
with good reason, concentrates on the causes of phenomena,
and this may well prove misleading and deceptive. Rather
must one admit that, in the present state of our knowledge,
no theory' appears to be satisfactory. The same applies to the
phenomena of light, heat, electricity, wireless and others. If it
is a question of undulations, what is the undulating substance?
One must have the wisdom to avoid coming to conclusions.
When an Indian fisherman first got an electric shock from a
torpedo-fish, or numb-fish, he would have been utterly in­
capable of giving a true explanation of the phenomenon and
his impressions would have been purely imaginary, not to say
absurd. It is better to keep silent, rather than put forward
chimerical theories with the risk of preventing the develop­
ments of science at the outset, by confining them to some
preconceived hypothesis.
My intention in the present work has been to set out, in an
orderly manner, the facts observed in the course of forty' years’
practice, to explain experiments with sufficient precision so
that they may be repeated by anyone, to expound a method
which has proved its worth, and to bring into relief some
fundamental laws emerging from this somewhat limitless and
b 17
disconcerting subject of Radiesthesia. Criticism made in a
truly scientific spirit will be welcome.
In France, the pioneers in the field of Radiesthesia have been,
in the majority of cases, Catholic Priests who invariably have a
strong aversion to spiritualism, occultism and all kinds of magic.
Is it conceivable that if, in the course of their experiments, they
had discovered some suspicious element, they would have con­
tinued their researches? The constancy of physical laws, their
neutrality in regard to any religious or philosophical question,
constitute criteria showing that we are confronted with purely
natural forces. Therefore, if there is no co-operation with any
misleading influence, it is a question of pure science. It has
always been a fatal mistake to oppose real progress in Science,
affecting not only those responsible for such an attitude, which
is of little importance, but also those whose authority was un­
questioned and whose supporters they gratuitously decided to
become. But this is not the first time that men with a religious
vocation, like shrewd detectives, have shown the way to a
discovery useful to humanity. There is no need to get alarmed
in the present case. I am not to be held responsible for the
occult practices, more or less unconscious, to which some
people might become addicted under cover of my method.
I should like to make it quite clear that I submit my work to
the judgment of those in authority in the Catholic Church who
are not in the least likely to be led astray by unwarranted claims
on the part of any individual.
In this work, it seems to me that I have written a supple­
mentary chapter to the old textbooks of classical physics.
It may take many years before all the phenomena of Radi­
esthesia are elucidated and its nature completely understood
including the range of wave-lengths involved, their periodicity,
their influence on environment, and the best method of cap­
turing them and controlling their effects so that they may be
used to give beneficial results.
This work, therefore, is but an outline, an accumulation of
material intended to build, one day, a cathedral. I hope it will
1 8
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
PREFACE
also inspire other radiesthetists to reveal their own secrets and
thus create a fraternal link between all those devoting their
efforts, hitherto too individualistic, to the progress of Radi­
esthesia.
I must also express my deep gratitude to all those who have
helped me in this work, first to the members of L ’Association
des Amis de la Radiesthesie who have urged and encouraged
me to write this book, and particularly to my friend Father
de Belinay, s.j., whose great knowledge has guided me at all
times and prevented me from falling into scientific heresies.
The reader will find here facts and experiments, and certain
laws, or rather constant manifestations of radiesthetic forces,
based on tentative hypotheses necessary for the explanation of
facts. But he will find no theory accounting for them. This is
quite intentional and the reason for it is obvious for no theory
could account for all the facts. Any explanation would be more
obscure than the particular fact to be explained. It is better,
therefore, to remain silent and frankly admit that we do not
know.
In Radiesthesia some discover various things while others
discover explanations. In the practical field of discovery we
can distinguish those who find something from those who never
find anything. But as far as discussion is concerned we are all
equal and different views are often expressed in radiesthetic
circles.
It is a natural tendency of the mind to find out the cause and
explanation of any phenomenon. But when this is impossible,
the scientific attitude should be one of benevolent curiosity,
patient, obstinate; controlling one’s work, repeating, varying
and multiplying experiments in order to establish future
theories on sound scientific foundations. Actually, in Radies­
thesia, it is only facts that are of primary importance.
Aristotle differentiated physics from metaphysics. It would
seem that Radiesthesia takes an intermediate place between the
two. By reason of its obvious similarities with the elements and
laws of classical physics, gravitation, light, heat, electricity,
•9
magnetism and Hertzian waves, Radiesthesia is closely linked
up with the group of sciences which studies the laws and forces
of Nature. On the other hand, owing to certain results which
might be regarded as supernatural, the apparent disproportion
of the means employed, and the mysteries associated with it
which it is not yet able to elucidate, Radiesthesia appears to
be concerned with the suspect domain of forces transcending
those of Nature.
Among radiesthetists, 1have observed two tendencies. Some,
endowed with a really scientific temperament, see and seek
in Radiesthesia a new branch of the physics of waves and
radiations. Others, possessing psychic and metaphysical ten­
dencies, attracted by the wonders*of occultism, aim at linking
up Radiesthesia with phenomena of abnormal hypersensibility
or spiritism.
Personally, I must make my own position quite clear. I regard
Radiesthesia as being purely scientific. If it had not been so,
I should have given it up long ago. All the facts I have observed,
whether explicable or not, appear to be purely natural and the
mystery associated with them is of the same kind as that charac­
teristic of luminous, calorific and Hertzian waves. Hence my
endeavours have always been to discover the points of contact
between these branches so closely akin to the same science and
I hope that those more learned than I will continue to investi­
gate on the same lines.
My own conviction is that those who try to associate Radi­
esthesia with occultism are doing a great deal of harm to it.
I formally decline any solidarity with them, any responsibility
for their theories and explanations and terms they use. Of
course, one cannot stop anyone calling himself a radiesthetist
but it would be most unfair if the misconceptions of some mis­
guided enthusiasts should bring discredit to Radiesthesia.
And now let us discuss the subject of distant prospection or
Teleradiesthesia which is very topical. Having practised it for
over twenty years I may venture to give a word of advice. A
comparison may help us to see the subject in its proper light.
20
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
PREFACE
Let us imagine the case of a surgeon who has discovered a new
method of operating for cancer. In performing ioo operations,
he achieved success in 80, leaving 20 failures. The president of
a society of surgeons suggests that he should perform two
controlled operations. Result: two failures. It would be fair
to conclude: 102 operations, 80 successes and 22 failures. But
the reckoning in this case is different: two operations, two
failures. All the facts involved, confirmed by the cured patients
themselves as well as by the professional staff, are ignored so
that the final impression is falsified.
Where would science be today if only controlled experi­
ments had been taken into account? And if, in the case men­
tioned above, a generalised statement condemning the oper­
ation in question had been made consequent upon two failures?
If students of Radiesthesia will only proceed to work as
explained in Chapter XHf. on a map or photograph, they will
find that it is not more difficult to succeed at a distance than
on location. Personally, after having surveyed a certain site,
I never give a final opinion without having controlled my work
on a map or plan in the quiet atmosphere of my own study.
There is a demand for results. In the first edition of the
present work, we gave 20 results. It is easy for anyone to verify
them. Dates, testimonies, references, are all there. Surely,
that should be enough.
Practical conclusion: when you are asked to make a pro-
spection, begin by making a study of the map or plan repre­
senting the site. If you find nothing, do not go on the site.
If you feel anything, you should go, if possible, in order to
check up on the site. On returning, another control should be
made on the plan, map or photograph. Later on, with greater
experience, it will be unnecessary to go on the site but useful
only to indicate to those concerned where digging operations
should be done to obtain a good result.
It is, of course, understood that to achieve a successful pro-
spection on a plan, it is essential that it should be properly
made. An ordinary piece of paper is not a plan. In Chapter XII
21
the necessary conditions to be fulfilled for making a good plan
are indicated. They may be briefly summarised here. The plan
should be so detailed (altitude, water streams, forests, hedges,
ditches, houses, etc.) that the teleprospector should feel he is
actually on the site itself. Black or white lines which may stand
for roads, paths, streams, tunnels, etc., are not sufficient indi­
cations.
Moreover, and this is also essential, one must choose to work
on a favourable day and at a favourable time. Thus, to give an
example, the teleprospectors who worked on the plans put
forward for the Congress of Paris (June 1933) a fortnight be­
fore the date of the Congress must have encountered insur­
mountable difficulties as during that time the atmosphere was
highly charged with parasitic radiations.
One day 1had to go to the South of France to make a pro­
spection but on that particular day parasitic radiations were so
strong that from nine o ’clock in the morning until five o ’clock
in the afternoon I found it impossible to detect a single stream.
For those who are feeling sceptical about these radiesthetic
phenomena capable of disturbing and even preventing any kind
of work, either on the site or on paper, I will mention a case
in which I was both a witness and a victim. On 4th March 1933
I was called to make a prospection in the small town of Pen-
thalaz, near Lausanne (Switzerland) with a view to increasing
the water supply. Accompanied by a pupil, I arrived on loca­
tion at 1.30 p.m. W e began to work right away. All was going
well when suddenly the pendulum stopped and refused to func­
tion. I said that it must be due to fading and advised waiting for
a while but at y p.m. we were still waiting for the end of the
fading. In spite of all our efforts, and surveying the site at
different points, sometimes with the rod and sometimes with
the pendulum, we failed to detect anything at all. The pen­
dulum remained motionless for three hours both in the hands
of my companion and in my own. As this happened in the
presence of the local council and the schoolmaster who had
brought his pupils to witness a demonstration of our radies-
22
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
PREFACE
thetic powers, our embarrassment may well be imagined.
When it was time to leave I said to my audience: ‘There is
something very serious happening in the atmosphere today. It
may be an earthquake or a volcanic eruption but 1 do not know
for certain.’ The next day, I had a ’phone call from Penthalaz:
‘ Have you seen the papers this morning? You were right yes­
terday. ’ And that morning the papers gave a full account of the
terrible tidal-wave catastrophe in Japan.
It is also worth noting that as soon as I arrived home I tried
to do my prospection on a plan with the same negative result.
It was only at 6.40 p.m. that suddenly the radiations reappeared
and the pendulum began to move again.
This somewhat sensational example serves to stress the fact
that there are certain times and days when the pendulum can­
not be used.
And now little book, bearer of proven truths, go wherever
you find welcome in the five parts of the world. Sustained by
the indulgence of the learned, by the sympathy of colleagues,
and by the sole desire of doing good, with a prayer, too, that
Heaven may not withhold its blessing, go, teach all who seek
with good will, to discover and use those treasures that the
earth hides from us, and, through the observation of beneficent
laws, to relieve the sufferings of humanity,
A bb e A . M e r m e t
Recteur de la Chapelle de Sainte-Madeleine
President honoraire
de T Association des Amis de la Radiesthesie
Jussy, pres de Gen&ve, Suisse
2 3
NOTE ON THE SCIENTIFIC ASPECT
OE RADIESTHESIA
(LAKHOVSKY’S THEORY)
I
AM neither a physicist nor a biologist, nor do I pretend that
I am able to explain the phenomena of radiesthesia.
I have, however, myself verified thousands of undeniable
experimental facts, in the forty and more years that I have
worked with rod and pendulum, and these facts no-one of good
will can dispute.
You cannot fight facts. As to their scientific explanation —
that I must leave to those better qualified than I. ‘Official’
science has so far made no pronouncement upon them, but in
the meantime, I think we may be able to find a rational ex­
planation of the phenomena of radiesthesia in the work of
LakhovskyA)
It will therefore be useful to give here in outline the prin­
ciples expounded by this remarkable man. If they are new to
you, and you wish to have a deeper knowledge of them than
I can give here, you must read for yourselves what he has
written.
W e know that classical physics teaches that there are two
atoms in a molecule of hydrogen, twenty-six in a molecule of
iron, forty-seven in a molecule of silver, eighty-two in a mole­
cule of lead, and so forth.
Now, according to Lakhovsky, the density of matter is not
due to the atoms in a molecule, nor to the electrons, protons,
positrons and other particles composing the atom. He con­
siders that the density of matter is due to the nature of the
intermolccular space, and that this space is not the same for
different kinds of matter.
CW
VieSecret ofLife - Cosmic Rays and Radiations ofLiving Beings by Georges Lakhovsky,
translated from the French by Mark Clement. This famous work is available in a
reprint of the second edition (1958), published by The True Health Publishing Com­
pany, 152 Landor Road, Stockwell, London S.W .9. Other works, published in
French only, are L*Universion, La Vie et la Mort, and La Terre et Nous.
24
NOTE ON THE SCIENTIFIC ASPECT OF RADIESTHESIA
According to Lakhovsky the compression, to a greater or
lesser degree, of the molecule of any substance, gives rise to
a radiation which is characteristic of that substance — a radi­
ation that is propagated to infinity.
Furthermore he puts forward the theory that our thought is
also a vibration, which is propagated to infinity at the rate of
300,000 kilometres per second.
When a radiesthetist stands on a site containing any mineral
ore, gold for example (atomic number 79), the radiation of
this gold causes traces of gold naturally present in the radies-
thetist’s organism to vibrate in resonance, and gives rise in the
course of cellular radiation to a specific current which, mani­
festing as a function of the atomic number of gold, is detected
by the organism, and moves the pendulum. The same applies
to silver, lead, iron, water, petroleum, etc., and all the sub­
stances contained in the soil on which the radiesthetist stands,
for our organism contains all the ninety-two simple bodies of
chemistry. Thus the radiation of every substance contained in
the soil acts on the organism and gives rise to a specific move­
ment of the pendulum.
For detection at a distance (Teleradiesthesia), Lakhovsky
gives an explanation based on the almost instantaneous propa­
gation of thought.
According to his theory, whenever thought is concentrated
on a certain object, the radiation of that thought travels round
the earth in one seventh of a second.
Thus in his work La Nature et Ses Merveilles he explains how
I was able to detect in my study at Saint-Prex, near Geneva,
a spring at a young people’s institute in Colombia, forecast to
be at a depth of 28 metres and actually found at 28 metres - all
this from some ten thousand miles distance.
By concentrating my thought on a plan of that institute in
Colombia, I instantaneously established, according to this scien­
tist, a line of force between the grounds of the institute and
myself. By running the index finger of my left hand on the
plan, or simply by looking at it, at the moment when my finger
or my eyes hit upon the exact site corresponding to the spring
on the plan, the specific radiation of water was transmitted by
this line of force from my thought and came to reach my brain.
Thus it produced exactly the same reaction as if I had been on
the site myself, above the spring, just as here in my home I
hear a radio concert given in Paris, Rome or London, exactly
as if the orchestra were in front of my eyes.
I must admit that such explanations are very fascinating and
one cannot help believing them to be true especially when
knowing that Lakhovsky’s theories have been confirmed in
other parts of the world.
The theory of thought-vibration has received the support of
eminent scientists, notably Professor Cazamalli of the Univer­
sity of Psychiatry in Rome. There is no doubt that if this theory
were finally confirmed, every radiesthetist, expert or other­
wise, would be delighted to accept it. Thus it would be science
itself which, in confirming radiesthetic phenomena, would put
an end by means of its own weapons to a conflict which is to be
deplored from every point of view.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
2 6
Part One: The Elements o f Kadiesthesia
I FUNDAMENTAL HYPOTHESIS
T
HE human mind, lost in a labyrinth of facts, needs for its
guidance an Ariadne’s thread. Here then, to serve as a
basis for our studies, is a broad hypothesis which seems to fit
the facts.
Everything takes place as i f :
A. All bodies without exception are constantly emitting
undulations or radiations.
B. The human body enters these fields of influence and be­
comes the seat of nervous reactions, of some kind of current,
which flows through the hands.
C. If an appropriate object, such as a rod or a pendulum, is
held in the hand, the invisible flux is made manifest in the
movements given to this object, which acts as a kind of
indicator.
A comparison will serve to illustrate our hypothesis. Let us
take the well-known principle of wireless. A circuit is con­
nected with a battery in such a way that a current would
ordinarily flow. But intercalated in the circuit is a tube con­
taining filings, the brilliant invention of the famous French
scientist Branly. Now the current does not flow, because the
filings constitute a series of bad contacts: but if a Hertz gener­
ator is used to emit waves of a certain kind, at once the filings
act as conductors and current flows in the circuit.
In the same way everything takes place as if the human body,
with all its resistances, normally constitutes a circuit in which
the current flows very feebly or not at all, whether the current
involved is of physiological or external origin. But, if a radi-
esthetic wave is generated and the operator fulfils the necessary
conditions of receptivity, then the human coherer functions
27
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RAD1ESTHESIA
at once, the current flows through setting the pendulum in
motion, and the variety of the pendulum’s movements corres­
ponds with the variations of the waves that have brought those
movements about.
And so, in tracing the effect back to the cause whence it
arises, it seems now logical to proceed and analyse the parts
played by the pendulum, by the human organism, and by the
forces emanating from bodies in general. Then to go further
and show how the radiesthetist goes about his work, making
use of each of these elements in the chain of cause and effect,
operating first ‘on site’ , then at a distance, and concerning
himself both with inanimate bodies and with living beings.
28
II THE ROLE OF THE PENDULUM
I . DEFINITION
A
PENDULUM may be defined as any body suspended by a
flexible link. In principle, anything held up in the air by
a flexible link is capable of balancing freely.
2 . SUBSTANCE
The pendulum may be made of metal, wood, ivory, glass,
marble, or liquid contained in a flagon, or any other heavy body.
A watch answers the purpose quite well but using it that way
puts it out of order either by shaking its spring or by magnet­
ising it. It is preferable to use a neutral substance such as wood,
glass, or ivory, or else the substance itself that one is searching
for. Some radiesthetists use a hollow instrument in which frag­
ments of the substance searched for are placed.
3, SHAPE
The round shape has the advantage of being less affected by
winds.
4 . WEIGHT
The normal weight is from 30 to 50 grams. But it is advisable
to use a heavy pendulum (100 grams or more) when prospect­
ing for heavy bodies. Likewise, sensitive operators will do
better with a still heavier pendulum for a light one may get
twisted in their hands. But to detect the finer points in any
given case, a light pendulum is better (20 to 30 grams).
One often has the impression of a change of weight taking
place. The same instrument held over a stream or liquid petro­
leum seems to get heavier. Held above some underground area,
and especially above a pocket of gas, the pendulum seems to
float in the air. It is important to know whether this impression
corresponds with a real modification.
Instead of holding the chain between the fingers, it should
be attached to the end of a flexible rod, for example a wire
29
acting as a spring. Acted upon by the weight, the wire adapts
itself to a certain curve. Over a can of petrol, the curve is
accentuated, and over a cavity it is diminished. Therefore,
there is a certain force adding to the weight or diminishing it.
£. THE CHAIN AND ITS REGULATION
The chain, wire or thread of suspension, must be flexible and
without any torsion so as not to interfere with the movements
of the pendulum. Often beginners fail to obtain results owing
to not having regulated the chain. One must, when for ex­
ample, standing above a silver coin, let the chain slip between
the fingers until obtaining movements that are distinctly marked
and regular. Then the chain is regulated in length for the
operator and for the object itself. One can also, by holding
the chain at the same point, obtain the necessary regulation
by raising or lowering the hand.
6. EFFECT OF COLOURS
Some radiesthetists use a coloured pendulum and there is
nothing very surprising about that. W e know that the seven
colours of the spectrum obtained by the decomposition of
white light have their own individual wave-length. If Radi-
esthesia is a question of waves it is to be expected that certain
waves should harmonise with certain colours and be in discord
with others. A coloured pendulum may be useful for working
on certain bodies but not on pthers. Personally, I do not use
coloured pendulums for my method offers more certain means
of determination. A table of colours is given below, some of
which may be used for certain bodies but not for others.
With regard to the role of colours, it may be said that
coloured objects act as radiesthetic filters, keeping out the
radiations of certain bodies and allowing those of other bodies
to pass through. The use of a coloured pendulum thus provides
an additional process of detection.
Let a body be placed on a table. Holding the pendulum
above it, the experimenter captures the ascending column,
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
3°
provided there is no fading at the time. The pendulum func­
tions quite well. A piece of coloured paper is then interposed
with the result that sometimes the pendulum stops working
suddenly or sometimes continues its movements.
Here are a few examples. The names preceded by a number
correspond to those of Ripolin’s classification. One must also
take into account the chemical composition of the colour.
R A D IA T IO N S L E T T H R O U G H R A D IA T IO N S S T O P P E D
For Water
THE ROLE OF THE PENDULUM
Red Prussian blue
Grey green 4 Clear yellow
1orr Clear pearl grey 1 Snow white
Dark green
29 Irish green
Straw yellow
F or G old
Rosy
Carmine red Red
29 Irish green Blue (medium)
Blue violet 4 Clear yellow
Reseda green ■3 Ultramarine blue
Red
For S ilrcr
1021 Tyrian red
Blue (medium) ' 4 i£ Carmine red
Blue
13 Ultramarine blue
For Petroleum
1021 Tyrian red
Various shades of green
>
> » blue
„ „ orange
4 Dark yellow
Chamois
Ash grey
Steel grey
Various shades of red
For Copper
Various shades of blue Various shades ol red
» .. green •• >
» yellow
Salmon pink
From a practical point of view, it is advisable to experiment
first on a sample of the same nature as that of the object searched
3i
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
for to see the effect of the coloured paper that is being used.
7. TEMPERATURE
Other things being equal, if a pendulum is heated over a flame
its oscillations and rotations will immediately show an ampli­
tude three or four times greater, and as it cools down to
normal the movements are slowed down.
It is easy to carry out this experiment with a flagon of water
more or less hot.
Conversely, if a pendulum is made with a piece of ice about
the size of an egg and held over a metallic object, its oscillations
arid rotations will be scarcely perceptible.
This experiment should be borne in mind. It shows that,
provided the conditions remain the same for the person of the
operator, as far as his sensitiveness and the object to be studied
are concerned, a variation of a purely physical nature, such as
temperature, stops the pendulum or accelerates it.
Beginners, and those who fail to make the pendulum work
in their hands, should try heating it. Another way of carrying
out this experiment is to take a pendulum attached to a chain
and dip it successively in melting ice, in water at room tem­
perature and in boiling water. When held over the same metallic
object, such as a coin, the differences in amplitude of its move­
ments should be noted in the three cases. This detail shows
that the conditions under which the pendulum works are not
immaterial.
8 . MOVEMENTS
The movements of a pendulum have three form s: oscillations,
rotations or gyrations, and ellipses.
Oscillations. Oscillations are balancing movements remaining
in a vertical plane and may be likened to the movements of a
swing. As in a swing, the start is only given in one direction,
the backward movement being due to gravitation. It is not a
single impulse which slackens off, as is the case with Galileo’s
32
pendulum, but a series of impulses that are kept up. The oscil­
lations are not symmetrical and the pendulum ‘draws’ in one
direction. This is df practical importance in discovering the
direction of a stream, the pendulum being attracted in the
direction of the current.
The amplitude of oscillations is variable. It depends on the
mass of a body and on its radio-active power, on the sensibility
of the operator, the lightness of the pendulum and its tem­
perature as well as the length of its chain.
On the other hand, an unaccountable fact is that distance
has no influence. I shall discuss again this point that the oscil­
lations caused by the same weight of the body are equally
powerful, whether the body is situated at a great distance or
under one’s feet.
Rotations (or gyrations). In this movement, the pendulum des­
cribes a series of circles, and the thread of suspension outlines
the surface of a cone. This movement may be a combination of
the preceding one Math a force swaying the pendulum from
the vertical. It is important to observe the direction of rotation
which sometimes indicates some very refined differentiations.
Direct rotation is clockwise; inverse rotation is anti-clockwise.
If an experiment is carried out correctly and for the same
body, apart from the particular polarity of the operator, this
direction is constant for the same operation.
Ellipses. The pendulum, functioning by its initial impetus, des­
cribes two or three ellipses at the moment when oscillations
turn to rotations, and reciprocally.
9. CORRECT MANNER OF HOLDING THE PENDULUM
The pendulum should be held in the right hand (left hand in
left-handed people) between the thumb and the index finger,
with the least possible pressure, the back of the hand being
uppermost and the arm without any contraction, relaxed and
supple. The pendulum will still function, though not so well,
if the chain is suspended at the end of a wire held in the hand.
c 33
THE ROLE OF THE PENDULUM
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
IO. PENDULUM AND ROD
The dow ser’s rod gives the same results as the pendulum.
Though I seldom refer to it, it is not to be despised. It is useful
in the detection of the direction of a stream , for example. But,
on the whole, the pendulum is preferable. Less cumbersome
and less tiring to manipulate, it describes a greater number of
movements and, above all, it reproduces the form of objects
which influence the operator. It also indicates more exactly
the position of bodies. On location, it enables one to work at
a certain distance, and for prospecting on a map it leaves the
left hand perfectly free.
The rod is less precise because it is too sensitive. Being
always in a state of tension its equilibrium is unstable and its
spring functions with some violence. It starts off from a state
of contraction while the pendulum acts from a state o f rest.
It is certain that from the earliest times the Chinese and
Indians knew about the use of the rod and the pendulum. In
1 7 9 9 Professor Gerboin of the University of Strassburg brought
back a pendulum from India, and presented it to the Academy
of Sciences in Paris; and the famous scientist Chevreul was
appointed to make an investigation in 1 8 3 3 . But unfortunately
he did not possess the physiological aptitudes to make him
sufficiently sensitive to the range of radiations involved, and
his conclusions were negative, which retarded the study of the
pendulum for half a century.
I I . MY ‘s a m p l e ’ PENDULUM (patented)
In answer to the numerous requests on the part of the students
of Radiesthesia to give them a standard type of pendulum of
absolute reliability, I have designed a pendulum which seems
to fulfil all the conditions for ensuring success as a working
instrument.
It has two characteristics which give it a great practical
efficacy. First, it is composed of an alloy o f several metals,
which makes it a very sensitive instrument and renders it
34
THE ROLE OF THE PENDULUM
neutral, because this combination of metals is rarely met with
in nature.
But what makes it a highly practical instrument for the pros­
pector is the fact that it can be easily opened, and dosed
tightly enough, to contain water or some other liquid.
Figure i. Abbe Merm et’s Pendulum
The great advantage of this pendulum is that the prospector
can easily introduce fragments of bodies that he is searching
for and thus establish the syntonisation which is always useful
and sometimes necessary.
It need hardly be said that it is not enough to have a good
instrument. One must know how to use it. What would be the
use of a Stradivarius in the hands of an unmusical person?
There are certain laws which must be known, and above all,
a great deal of experience is required.
3S
Ill THE UNCONSCIOUS ROLE
OF THE ORGANISM
I. THE BODY AS CONDUCTOR
I
T is almost certain that the force that moves the pendulum
does not reach it directly but through the intervention of
the body of the radiesthetist. The pendulum may be held in
any part of the right hand but it will function only if the right
foot is placed in a proper position. If the right foot is lifted
(left foot in left-handed people) there is no movement of the
pendulum. Let us make it clear that it is the hall of the foot
that is involved, and not the heel. Thus, everything takes place
as if the radiesthetic flux entered through the right foot, flowed
through the body and escaped through the right hand while
moving the pendulum. But as the rays are vertical ones they
can be picked up also by any anatomical part on the right side:
knee, elbow, shoulder, head, etc.
In the description given later of the radiesthetic field sur­
rounding the body we shall give a definition of the various rays:
fundamental, mental, luminous, etc. What we said about the
position of the right foot affects only the fundamental ray. The
mental and luminous rays can be picked up even if the right
foot does not rest on the ground, either with a finger of the
left hand forming an antenna, or with the pendulum itself
moved by the operating right hand. The mental ray needs no
external antenna; one may even close the eyes, for it is only
the brain that is involved.
It has been said that rubber soles interfere with the function­
ing of the pendulum but there is no evidence of this. Indeed,
no insulating substance is known which can affect radiesthetic
radiations.
2 . THE SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM
What takes place in the human organism is a matter of con­
jecture. Who can explain the nature of the nervous current
36
flowing through the body? But it would seem that the nervous
system is involved and that the nerves act as conductors. As a
simple indication I should like to mention the following fact.
When I am asked by anyone if he can become a radiesthetist
1 take the radiation of the great sympathetic nervous system;
if it is below a certain figure the individual is not suitably
endowed. The figure 1 8 seems to be the minimum figure for
‘immediate’ capacity in any person.
3. WHO CAJM BE A RADIESTHETIST?
This question is often asked. The required talent is by no means
rare but the gifted individual is not aware of it. It would seem
that about three men out of four possess this gift in the latent
state, and all that is necessary is to develop it. Some reveal
themselves to be radiesthetists at the first attempt, sometimes
while undertaking an experiment for fun. Others need guid­
ance and tuition. In order to be successful the beginner must
be guided by an expert; he needs a method, a discipline, to
avoid wasting time in discovering things which are known
already. The usual mistake made by beginners is to set aside
any form of apprenticeship, to tackle the most difficult prob­
lems right away and to get discouraged at the first failure. A
little modesty is always a good thing. The discredit unjustly
suffered by capable radiesthetists is often due to foolhardy
beginners.
As some people are exceptionally gifted in the realms of
mathematics, music or painting, so certain organisms are won­
derfully endowed with radiesthetic sensitivity. There are some
who do not even need a pendulum, for the reactions they ex­
perience are sufficient to give them the necessary information.
This somewhat morbid sensitivity may prove to be more upset­
ting than useful. Some individuals experience a violent nervous
commotion, even painful, when approaching a stream of water.
My own father used to find himself jumping while passing over
a subterranean stream. Personally, I am not so sensitive and I
experience a sensation of heaviness in the legs while my feet
THE U NCONSCIOUS ROLE OF THE ORGANISM
37
seem to be stuck to the ground and I have a feeling of trepi­
dation. These impressions, increasing in intensity with the
degree of the radiating power of the external body, remain
rather vague and do not enable me to determine the nature of
a certain body without a pendulum.
It is also true that certain individuals, who are exceptionally
gifted, actually ‘see’ water under the earth, or various bodies,
as if the earth were transparent for them. These cases of physical
clairvoyance are extremely rare but they constitute a manifes­
tation of a singularly greater receptivity.
4. CAN THE SCIENCE OF RADIESTHESIA BE TAUGHT?
The answer to this question is an unqualified affirmative pro­
vided the beginner fulfils the necessary physiological conditions,
as proved by the numerous adepts I have instructed regarding
the secrets of the pendulum in the course of lectures and my
private conversations. These individuals have reached a high
degree of expertness through their own experience and have
succeeded extremely well in the branches in which they have
chosen to specialise. But let us not forget that just as it is
difficult to train a sheep dog to become a hunting dog or to
transform a cart horse into a race horse, or a man who is tone
deaf into a good musician, so likewise only an inefficient radi-
esthetist will emerge out of a beginner, continually failing
and unlucky, who has not been endowed with the ‘gift’ - I
mean the physiological, intellectual and moral aptitudes which
are indispensable to the making of a good radiesthetist.
I have received hundreds of letters in the past years con-
finning my conviction that Radiesthesia can be taught, and a
study of the present work has resulted in many people be­
coming excellent operators who never had the slightest idea of
Radiesthesia previously.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
38
IV THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
I. UNDULATIONS OR RADIATIONS
O
UR fundamental hypothesis is that ‘ Everything takes place
as if all bodies emitted undulations or radiations.’
Our senses, or our instruments, enable us to observe that
certain bodies, under certain conditions, vibrate and give off
various kinds of waves called undulations. For example, the
water in a pond struck by a washerwoman’s beater; the air
made to vibrate by a sound; the ether (unidentified substance
but very useful for explaining certain phenomena) disturbed by
oscillating sparks emitted by a radio station. Other bodies,
radium, for example, give off violently their constituent atoms,
and anything brought near them is subjected to a molecular
bombardment.
Does our sun, radiating such an abundance of light and heat,
function by means of radiations or undulations ? This question
has been discussed for a long time. Newton maintained that
light was due to a projection of corpuscular elements which,
given off by the sun and traversing space, ultimately reached us.
Huyghens, on the other hand, stated that light was due to
undulations, nothing of a material nature affecting their speed
through space, but only the vibratory shock disturbing the
atoms in the ether being transmitted.
Fresnel’s experiments on interference, in which two lumin­
ous sources produce dark bands and light bands according as
the undulations are accumulated or neutralised, are easily ex­
plained by Huyghens’ theory but not by Newton’s.
It is to avoid a controversy that our fundamental hypothesis
states ‘undulations or radiations’ . For the time being, it is of
little importance.
If, therefore, we already know that several bodies emit
undulations or radiations, it seems reasonable to suppose that all
bodies do the same. If not, how is one to explain that all bodies,
more or less, give rise to the movements of the pendulum?
39
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
2 . RADIESTHETIC FIELD
To express the idea that all bodies, far beyond their material
surface, influence other bodies by forces emanating from their
own substance, it is customary in physics to say that they are
surrounded by a field. Nothing is more familiar to us. If a
candle is lit, it is surrounded by a luminous field perceived by
the eyes and by a calorific field felt by the hands. If a note is
struck on the piano, a musical field is created and the corres­
ponding string of a violin nearby vibrates.
But there exists a far greater number of fields than we have
senses for. An X-ray tube produces an invisible field enabling
us to see bones and other opaque bodies on a special screen.
The Eiffel Tower gives off a field of Hertzian waves, not visible,
warm or audible by themselves, but which, with an appropriate
apparatus, can be transformed into harmonious sounds.
The radiesthetic field is not perceptible to our senses. In
order to be manifested to us it requires a specific intermediary:
the apparatus of the radiesthetist.
There is also another anomaly. Most of the fields known to
us are homogeneous, that is to say that forces are given off
with equal intensity in all directions. Barring obstacles, all the
Hertzian waves emitted at a given time by a transmitter are
found on the same spherical surface at a given moment, having
the point of emission as centre.
But there exist non-homogencous fields, for example, the
magnetic field. The lines of force created by a magnet are very
close together round the poles and not found in the middle.
To create a discontinuous field one can place obstacles in a
continuous field. A lamp fills all the surrounding space with
light. If it is capped by an opaque lampshade, there remain two
luminous cones directed upwards and downwards respectively.
If the lampshade is perforated, a ray of light will escape through
the hole. Thus the luminous field is reduced to two cones and
a ray; it is discontinuous.
Now radiesthetic fields are continuous and discontinuous at
40
the same time. Let us endeavour to explain this phenomenon
as clearly as possible.
First let us examine the discontinuous aspect of these fields.
The pendulum exploring methodically all the space surround­
ing a body will only be affected by rays in certain regions where
their presence will be indicated by various movements. Every­
where else, even in close proximity to the body, the pendulum
will remain motionless. The sum total of these rays, wherever
found, some being constant and others variable, is character­
istic of the nature of any given body and enables us to identify
it. Thus a field, in its discontinuous aspect, is composed of
curved surfaces and simple lines or straight rays, curves or
spirals, which are called magnetic lines, magnetic surfaces,
fundamental ray, spirals, vertical column and radiesthetic ener­
gies. In the intervals between these lines or surfaces, the pendu­
lum remains motionless.
X It is possible to capture all these radiations with the pen­
dulum by holding it around or above a radiating body, or with
the left hand functioning as a mobile antenna around the body,
also with any part of the body, for example, the knee, elbow
or head.
With regard to the continuous aspect, the radiesthetic field
manifests its action in all directions and in all dimensions of
space. It is manifested to the pendulum by means of the mental
ray or solar or luminous ray.
If we wanted to represent a radiesthetic field we should have,
in order to show its discontinuous aspect, to place around the
body in certain directions and inclinations some wires, straight
or twisted, and some cylindrical or spherical surfaces. W e
should also, in order to show the field in its continuous aspect,
surround the body with rays emanating from its centre in a
straight line and in all directions.
Before discussing the characteristic features of various fields,
it might be useful to enumerate the elements common to the
majority of radiesthetic fields. To explore all the space around
a fragment of a body, it should be placed on a stand properly
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
4 i
orientated whose under surface is easily accessible, or sus­
pended from the ceiling by means of a string. By displacing
methodically the right foot, or a finger of the left hand acting
as an antenna, one will find the constituent elements listed
below which will be indicated by the pendulum.
1 - Magnetic surfaces and lines of force,
2 - Fundamental ray,
3 - Mental ray,
4 - Solar ray and artificial rays,
3 —Witness ray,
6 - Vertical column,
7 —Radiesthetic images,
8- Numerical figures and direction of rotation,
9 - Spirals,
10 —Pendular designs,
11 —Variations in weight,
i 2 —Fading.
X 3 - MAGNETIC SURFACES AND LINES OF FORCE
Let us take the case of a dowser searching for an underground
stream of water. Suddenly his pendulum indicates the presence
of water but it is only a line of force and if one were to start
digging no water would be found. He advances forward at right
angles to the line and comes across six others, equally mag­
netic, and the next one indicates the actual presence of water.
On the opposite side, the same series is found. For the time
being, let us bear in mind the fact that a stream of water is
accompanied, on each bank, by a group of seven magnetic
parallel lines, or fourteen altogether.
Furthermore, the pendulum shows that these parallel lines
are a section, on a horizontal plane of the ground, of seven
magnetic surfaces in the form of concentric cylinders which
can be detected above and below the stream of water. Let us
imagine an electric cable surrounded by seven insulating layers,
or a pencil wrapped up with paper seven times.
If the stream ascends vertically, a section on the horizontal
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
4*
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
Figu re i . Lines of Force with a verti­
cal COLUMN OF WATER
Projection on a horizontal plane. Vertical
column of water at centre. 4: Median.
7: Great parallel.
Figu re 3. Lines of Force with a subterranean stream
Projection on a horizontal plane
43
plane of the ground will give seven circular and concentric
lines.
Now this phenomenon of radiesthetic surfaces is not charac­
teristic of water only, but is a general one. Gold gives eleven
lines, silver six lines, always a number equal to the character­
istic serial number of a given body. Also, if a body is stretched
out (coins laid out in a line), there will be parallel lines and
cylindrical surfaces. In the case of a single coin, there will be
concentric circles, sections of spherical surfaces.
y 4 . FUNDAMENTAL RAY
Every body has a fundamental ray, which I discovered myself,
emanating from it, whose direction makes an invariable angle
with the North-South direction and whose inclination on the
horizontal plane is constant.
The direction of the fundamental ray is always away from
the object. Its length is proportional to the mass of the body,
and, given the same weight of various bodies, to their power
- of radiation. (Fig. 6.) ^ 5
Example: Silver
A French silver coin of ten francs. W eight: 10 grams.
Direction of fundamental ray: towards the East.
Length of fundamental ray: ro ems.
Example: Copper
Old French coin. W eight: 10 grams.
Direction of fundamental ray: 45° South-West, r .
Length of fundamental ray: £ cms.
I have recently had an unexpected confirmation of the exis­
tence of the fundamental ray. At a Congress of dowsers I met
a woman gifted with an extraordinary sensibility. Putting
a silver coin on a table, I asked her to pass her hand around it
and tell me when she felt anything. When she said that her
hand felt a sensation of coolness it was exactly to the East of
the coin. By changing the metal studied, I observed that the
sensation of coolness invariably occurred in the direction where
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
44
the pendulum gave the fundamental ray. In the particular case
of a hypersensitive person the fundamental ray became per­
ceptible to the sense of touch.
£ . MENTAL RAY
There exists another ray, which I also discovered myself, link­
ing up the object with the operator and any other person.
I call it the mental ray because it comes, directly from the
object to the brain of the observer. (Fig. 6.) It never fails to
manifest itself, except in cases of fading, and is always within
reach. It persists even when the hand or the foot is lifted, and
it is this ray which enables one to work while flying in an
aeroplane. It indicates instantaneously, without having to move
a single step, for it is sufficient to turn the body around, the
presence, nature, direction and distance exactly, and the
approximate depth, of the body searched for. All this will be
explained further on. Among my discoveries, I consider that
of the mental ray to be the most important, after that of the
fundamental ray.
Where does the mental ray come from? From the body to
the brain or from the brain to the body?
The comparison called for is that of the luminous ray. When
we look at a star, for example the polar star, it is certainly not
a visual ray traversing space and returning which gives us the
final impression. It is the luminous, undulatory disturbance
caused by the combustion of the star which affects our eyes,
provided that they function normally and are directed towards
the star. As it takes about three years for its light to reach us,
the polar star could have been extinguished but it would still
remain visible. If it were not so, how could we see nebulae
whose light takes a million years to reach us.
Now radiesthetic rays behave like luminous rays very closely
in that they emanate from all bodies, but they differ from
luminous rays in that they are not impeded by any obstacle.
Just as all the stars, barring obstacles, look down on us, as it
were, with a luminous ray, so all bodies, irrespective of ob-
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
4 f
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHES1A
stacles, are in contact with ns by means of a non-luminous ray.
Every body, vibrating in all directions, constantly reaches every
man owing to the emanation of its non-luminous waves. It is
they which come to us and not something from us escaping to
explore far away. Our organism is not a transmitting station of
waves but a receiving station. Our brain is like a radiesthetic
eye and not a lighthouse. It receives or ignores certain rays but
does not send any rays out. The almost total part of these rays,
not being received, is lost. When, by chance, they come across
a suitably receptive apparatus they make it function like a
radio set and transmit their message.
Some people, and not the least learned of them, hold a hypo­
thesis opposed to ours. For them our brain is a transmitting
station of waves. If we want to know what exists at a great
distance away from us, for example whether there is a gold
deposit at a certain site, our brain would emit a mental ray
which would fix itself on the site under investigation and would
return charged with the answer. What is one to think of such
an explanation?
Confronted with facts that are so new and strange it behoves
us to remain humble.
Personally, I leave the solution of this great problem to those
more learned than I.
I hold the hypothesis that the brain is a receiving station of
waves for the following reasons.
A. I have demonstrated by experiments with mirror, prism
and projection lantern, a singular similarity between luminous
rays and radiesthetic rays. Now, from the point of view of
vision, the human eye is simply a photographic apparatus whose
lens is the objective, the iris serving as a diaphragm and the
retina functioning as a sensitive plate. According to physicists
who have made a special study of the eye, the sensitive sub­
stance is the ‘retinal red’ which is decomposed by the action
of the light received, thus forming an image immediately trans­
mitted to the brain, and is then replaced by a new layer of
sensitive substance.
4 6
A photographic apparatus is a passive receiver and so is the
human eye. Therefore, by analogy, I conclude that it is reason­
able to regard our radiesthetic apparatus as being purely a
receiving one.
B. It is convenient, at first sight, in order to explain the
facts discovered, to rely on the hypothesis of a visual survey of
the site under study. But on second thoughts it appears that
difficulties are encountered which seem to me to be insur­
mountable. This visual survey cannot be directed; for often
one does not know in which part of the world the particular
site actually is whose map lies before one’s eyes. As this kind
of visual prospection must be made in all directions, a great
deal of mental energy is required to work at a distance of
10 to 20,000 miles away. One could not help being conscious
of such a nervous effort involving loss of energy and fatigue.
Yet, one can work on maps for two or three hours without
experiencing any more fatigue than in any other kind of intel­
lectual work. By putting a finger on a plan the pendulum begins
to move and one is conscious of being a disinterested spectator
of the play of imperceptible forces.
C. Let us make this quite clear. A dowser in action is indeed
a central transmitter of waves, just as a dowser at rest, or a
non-dowser, or any animal, plant, metal or metalloid. But
these waves are involuntary, unconscious, being constitutive
of matter. It is the radioactivity of bodies.
D. The mental ray cannot be a simple emission of vibrations
of the ether by the brain. Let us even admit that these waves
can be transmitted from the brain to an object: but their
nature would not enable them to gather useful information and
bring back the answer. Such an activity is the monopoly of the
mind. W e should thus have to accept the possibility of an
escape of the mind to reach a certain place situated thousands
of miles away in order to give the desired information. Let us
leave such a heavy responsibility to others.
E. The hypothesis which likens the brain or the whole ner­
vous system to a simple receiving station is closely related to
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
47
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
the functions of the classical five senses. Just as the eye does
not project a look, the ear does not send out any listening aid,
but confines itself to gathering up the sound that reaches it.
The tongue restricts itself to tasting what is put on it, the nose
to inhaling smells brought to it in the air, and touch is limited
to palpating objects within its reach. Not one of our senses
sends out into space an enquiring signal.
The same hypothesis is also more scientific for it does not
separate itself from science. Its requirements consist only, as
in wireless, of a transmitting station (the vibrating body), a
transmitting medium (the same ether as for light and Hertzian
waves) and a receiving station (in this case the nervous system
of the dowser).
Astonishing as the results obtained by Radiesthesia may be,
we have a sense of scientific security with it which is not far
away from the indisputable facts of modern physics.
I stated before that the pendulum oscillating over a stream
of water, AB, indicates the direction of the water by a kind of
traction - that is to say, it indicates whether the water flows
from A towards B or from B towards A. It indicates also the
direction of the propagation of radiesthetic rays. Now, the
direction of transmission of our mental ray is from the object
towards the operator. This is felt through the pendulum as one
feels the direction of a stream of water.
The operator can also capture the ray going from an object
towards any other person, whether the object is visible or not.
This seems to be yet another proof that this ray does not
emanate from our brain.6
6. LUMINOUS RAY
This ray would seem to be a radiesthetic wave making use of
a light ray, whatever the source of it may be.
The principle of this ray was discovered, we believe, by
Abbe Bouly. But our eminent colleague called it, wrongly we
think, a solar ray under the pretext that this ray exists only in
48
daylight. And it is for this reason, according to him, that it is
impossible to do any prospecting at night.
But long experience has proved to us that any kind of lum­
inous ray, for example that of a lamp, is perfectly satisfactory
for carrying out prospection on a plan and even on location.
Thus, during the evening, by "way of study or recreation, it is
quite possible to detect a radiating body, a coin for example,
that has been hidden in the room where the operator is.
This luminous ray, emanating from the sun or any artificial
source, constantly links up the source from which it emanates
with all other bodies. And as regards the solar ray, it reaches
all bodies even when the sun is masked by clouds. It is then
that work becomes easier and more reliable because there are
no magnetic images, or very few.
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
Figure 4. Solar R ay Experiment ( i )
The solar ray is reflected by a magnetic surface surrounding the object.
A : Silver coin placed on table. B B 1 : One of the six spherical magnetic
surfacessurroundingthecoin. S :Thesun, ora lamp. S C : Solar ray, direction.
S -C . C: Point of contact and reflection. C D : Reflected solar ray, direction
C-D. D: Point where reflected solar ray ends: note that the reflected ray
is very short.
W e know that a magnetic surface BB1 surrounds every body
which lengthens or shortens itself and even disappears at cer­
tain times. It is useful to know that the luminous ray stops at
this magnetic surface of the body as well as before the body
itself, and it is this phenomenon which prevents the operator
d 49
at certain times from locating exactly the object searched for.
(See Fig. 4.) P. ‘/ f
Let us also note that the luminous ray does not stop motion­
less before the body nor before the magnetic aura of it, but it
seems to rebound forming a very short reflected ray. (See Fig. j.)
The direction of transmission of the luminous ray is from
the luminous source towards the body, and that of the reflected
ray is away from the body.
Any artificial luminous source, a candle for instance, or
electric light, gives the same kind of ray Sd. Thus we can, by
displacing a source of light, increase at will the directions S A :
their point of convergence indicates the object searched for.
7. WITNESS RAY
Every body sends out a radiesthetic ray towards another frag­
ment of the same kind as itself. For example, if there are two
silver coins and two copper coins in a room, a ray will link up
the silver coins together, and another ray will do the same
with the copper coins, but no ray will go from silver to copper.
This ray, conveniently called ‘ witness’ , because it is the
principle of the witness method, is extraordinarily useful. One
can easily bring, place or displace the witness body. Let us take
the case of a gold coin hidden or lost in a room. Another gold
coin (the witness) should be placed on a table and the operator
should go round it. As soon as he passes between it and the
coin searched for, the witness ray will be intercepted, and the
pendulum, held in the right hand, will give the serial number
of gold. The point where the operator stands and the position
of the witness coin together indicate a direction which should
be noted. The witness is then displaced and a second direction
is obtained which will intersect the first at the point where the
gold coin is hidden.
8 . VERTICAL COLUMN
In an earlier edition of this work, 1 referred to an ascending
column or vertical column in connection with radiesthetic
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
5 °
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
Figu re j , So lar Ra y Experiment (2)
The solar ray is not reflected beforereachingtheobject. A : Silvercoinplaced
on ta b le . S : S u n . S A : Solar ray. A D : Reflected solar r a y . D : P o in t where
reflected solar ray ends: note again that it is short.
Figure 6. Aspects of R adiesthetic Field
Vertical section. A : Silver coin placed on table. C: Position of radiesthetist’s
head: A C : Mental ray, direction from A to C . A F : Fundamental ray ending
at F , appearing below the table, direction East. S p : Spirals, two series each
of three spirals, described by the pendulum beneath fundamental ray.
A F 1 : Magnetic line, areflection of the fundamental ray A F , rising above the
horizontal.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
images. After further reflection, it seems more logical to in­
clude it in the enumeration of normal elements of the radi-
esthetic field.
X When the ether is in its normal state, a vertical radiesthetic
ray is formed above as well as below every body, that is to say
that the pendulum held in a vertical direction in regard to the
object, gives the specific series. But, if any magnetic discharge
disturbs the equilibrium of the ether, this ascending column
ceases to exist and seems to have been dispersed, giving rise to
deceptive magnetic images. A comparison may prove helpful.
Let us take a group of Mohicans on the warpath. They bivouac
in a wood and light a fire. If the air is calm, the smoke will
ascend vertically and will give them away to their enemies.
If it is windy only traces of dispersed smoke will appear far
away from the bivouac.
The ascending column is the radiesthetic smoke of bodies.
Its presence over an object indicates the calm state of the ether,
hence the accuracy of other observations. Its absence is a sign
of a magnetic disturbance which falsifies the indications of the
pendulum.
9. RADIESTHETIC IMAGES
I have given the above description to representations of an
object which are a kind of mirage, or capricious reflections,
dancing around the body, and whose mobility, both in regard
to distance and direction, is disconcerting. They may be com­
pared to solar parhelions, those groups of mock suns which in
boreal regions are formed round the sun. These images, the
despair of operators, are intense during stormy'weather and in
blazing sunlight, while diminishing at night time and in cloudy
weather. Sometimes, after having been displayed around a body,
they rise again and are found in a vertical column, just above
and below it. It is then the best moment for the operator to
work. If one is surrounded by images, the waiting interval will
not be long for, as a rule, the periods are short and the changes
continual.
It is in prospecting for gold that they prove most trouble­
some. W e shall indicate further on how to distinguish them.
The magnetic or radiesthetic image can be utilised provided
it can be distinguished from the real object. If the latter is
inaccessible, one will find on the image all the information
required: depth, output, direction of stream. Everything takes
place as if one were examining a face in a mirror. Furthermore,
if one goes round the magnetic image, the radiesthetic ray is
encountered which links it up with the object and makes its
detection possible.
IO. SERIAL NUMBERS AND DIRECTION OF ROTATION
For all the elements which have been mentioned earlier on,
the pendulum gives a certain number of oscillations, followed
by the same number of rotations, and so on. W e must note
that it is only the first series of oscillations or rotations that
counts. The second series is only the repetition of the first, in
a different direction. The first series, being ended, the pen­
dulum hesitates for a moment, then repeats the same number
in a new direction (perhaps also in the same direction) and
continues to do so indefinitely as long as the operator holds
his hand near or above the body under observation. (Fig. 7.)
Thus, for silver, we have six oscillations, followed by six
rotations. Then it starts again. The figure six is characteristic
of silver.
Furthermore, the rotations are anti-clockwise because in a
silver coin the silver is not pure. Pure silver gives a clockwise
rotation.
Thus, every body has a serial number and a direction of
rotation which are characteristic of it.
The determination of bodies by knowing the serial number
for each one, independently of the operator holding the pen­
dulum correctly, is one of the characteristic features of my
method.
Other operators, particularly among very sensitive begin­
ners, who let the pendulum go out of control, obtained series
S 3
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
generally higher than mine. But, some of them have told me
that having succeeded in holding the pendulum correctly and
under control, they found the same figures as mine. There is,
therefore, in these series, something which is objective and
impersonal.
Certain operators, and not the least competent, state em­
phatically that my series do not correspond to an objective
O s c il l a t io n s R o t a t i o n s O s c ill.
1 2 3 4 5 6 I 2 3 4 5 6 I 2 3 4
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Fig u r e 7, Se r ia l N u m ber of G o ld
To avoid the confusion of superimposed lines, it has been supposed that
the right hand is moving in the direction of the arrow.
reality and insist that they are personal and different with every
operator. And it is a fact that they obtain important results
with movements of the pendulum that are very different from
mine.
Let us make another comparison. I have a friend who, having
long lived in America, knows how to shoot accurately with a
gun without taking it out of his pocket. One day, my friend
aroused the admiration of a crowd of people at a fair in Aix-
en-Provence, by breaking clay pipes with his gun close to the
hip. Evidently there are several methods of shooting including
the usual and the unusual ones. Anyone can train himself to
use the one he prefers and distinguish himself. Yet, one cannot
deny that there is a normal way of using a gun which, con­
sidering the form of the gun and that of the human body, is
regarded as normal and must obtain superior results.
It seems that the same reasoning applies to Radiesthesia, If
the vibrations emitted by bodies and transmitted by the ether
54
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
are identical it is reasonable to suppose that they produce iden­
tical reactions on human organisms. But in order to do so, they
must have free play and must not be impeded, deformed by
any contraction, suggestion, stiffness or acquired bad habits.
It is quite possible to proceed badly in Radiesthesia just as
one may ride a horse badly or shoot with a gun and miss one’s
target. It is interesting to note that a great number of radi-
esthetists have told me that after a certain education of their
receiving system and of their right arm they obtained the same
figures as I did. I have also seen young people and children
finding several of my series at the first attempt whose figures
they did not know. Yet, it seems to me that a knowledge of
the figure helps to obtain it.
I I . SPIRALS
Above the fundamental rayLthe pendulum describes a curious
figure in the form of a spiral consisting of a certain number of
spirals separated or not by level runs. The orbits of the pen­
dulum seem to ascend or descend a revolving staircase whose
axis takes on unexpected forms but is constant for each kind
of body. The pendulum seems to slide on the spirals of a
solenoid or spring consisting of fragments of 3 spirals, 2 spirals
and 1 spiral but in such a way that the total number of spirals
always gives the same characteristic figure. For example, for
silver: 3 spirals, level run, 3 spirals, total 6. For gold: 3 spirals,
level run, 3 spirals, level run, 3 spirals, level run, 2 spirals,
total 11. (Fig. 6.) P. S ’!
As regards the direction of the spirals, they arise from the
body, alongside the fundamental ray with which they become
identified.
*© r below the fundamental ray. For the sake of analytical clearness I have de­
scribed spirals and fundamental ray separately. I am inclined to think that they are
two elements of the same radiesthetic phenomenon. The spirals would be the funda­
mental ray itself which takes that form, and its straight line would be a projection
whose length is proportional to the mass of the body.
An experienced operator finds spirals at each of the points of each radiesthetic
ray.
It should also be noted that the forces of the magnetic field are more intense below
the body, that is towards the earth, than above it.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHES1A
The discovery of these figures is indisputable and my friends
have called them ‘M ermet spirals’.
I think it is advisable to draw the attention of radiesthetists
to a fact which seems to me to be very important in order to
differentiate the nature of bodies.
There are bodies which have the same serial num bers. How
can they be differentiated? The answer is (i) they have not the
same fundamental ray, ( 2) neither are their spirals identical.
W A T E R 'Qqq n N -
WEST
2 ) ~ (J2 p ' ? ) 0 V S-WEST
Figu re 8. Spirals A bove and Below Ho rizo ntal Plane
Let us take, for example, water and copper. The fundamental
ray of water is towards N .W . while that o f copper is towards
S.W .
The spiral of water (two groups of spirals and one spiral) is
found above the horizontal plane of water while the spiral of
copper is found below. (Fig. 8 .)
1 2 . PENDULAR DESIGNS
Experience shows that in expert hands the pendulum describes
or draws in the air the form of a body. Thus, over a pair of
scissors it will describe two circles and a straight line. Without
any preconceived idea concerning this phenomenon we must
take into account, apart from the elements common to radi-
esthetic fields, the force impelling the pendulum to reproduce
the shape of the object. If, in the course of excavations, there
is a column or a tomb underground, the pendulum will des­
cribe the column form or tomb form.
£6
THE ROLE OF BODIES IN GENERAL
1 3 . VARIATIONS IN WEIGHT
It is also a fact that over certain bodies, for example, liquid
petrol, the pendulum becomes heavier and draws towards the
object while over other bodies (gaseous petrol) it becomes
lighter and seems to withdraw from them. The pendulum is
then tossed about and thrown back in various directions. W e
must therefore add to our list of characteristic elements of a
body the force which by attraction or repulsion on the part of
the object seems to increase or reduce the weight of the
pendulum.
14 . FADING
In radio transmission we are familiar with the fading of sound
which interferes with the clear hearing of a broadcast. The
same phenomenon is encountered in Radiesthesia. In stormy
weather, and often without any apparent cause, the pendulum
hangs motionless. It should, therefore, be understood that the
phenomena mentioned above only manifest themselves pro­
vided there is no fading. When it occurs, one must wait until
it is over. Fading is usually of short duration, but frequent. But
if one cannot wait, I have found a means of suppressing fading.
It consists in holding in the air, in the left hand, in the exact
direction of the sun, either a raised finger or a pointed rod
held vertically.
Another means of getting the pendulum to move in spite of
fading is to let the suspension thread of the pendulum slip
through the fingers until it moves again. But when fading ceases
for the first length, it will start again for the second. As it is
conceivable that the length of the suspension thread corres­
ponds to certain wave-lengths, one is led to believe that fading
might be due to some magnetic trouble modifying the wave­
length of vibrations.
A third means is equally successful and consists in either
using a heavier pendulum or in gradually raising the right hand
holding the pendulum. When a certain zone is reached, fading
ceases.
S I
V SOME EXPERIMENTS
I . b r a n l y ’s e x p e r im e n t
B
R AN LY, the famous French scientist, one day asked Father
Tremolet, missionary in Morocco and dowser, if he could,
from the garden, detect the presence of a gold coin on the table
of his laboratory which was entirely screened with sheets of
copper. The priest hesitated but Branly said to him : ‘If radi-
esthetic radiations are such as I conceive them to be, you should
be able to do i t .^ The experiment was carried out forthwith
and was successful.
I have repeated this experiment by using various rays des­
cribed earlier on. A gold coin was placed, unknown to me, in
a soup-tureen made of stainless steel, with the lid covering it.
Through the wall of a different metal my pendulum revealed
the fundamental ray of gold, a solar ray obtained with an elec­
tric lamp as well as the mental ray.
Thus burglars before forcing a safe open could detect with
a pendulum whether it contained precious metals or not!
2 . MIRROR EXPERIMENT
W e have already stated that the radiesthetic ray, which I call
luminous, is invariably foundbetween the sun and any givenbody.
When the body is exposed to the sun, that is to say struck
Figu re 9. Mir r o r Experim ent (i . Solar ray direct)
^Bulletin de la Kadiesthisie (June 1933).
58
SOME EXPERIMENTS
by a luminous ray from the sun, the two rays, the visible
luminous ray, and the radiesthetic ray, invisible but detected
by the pendulum, travel along together in the same straight
line. If an obstacle is placed in the way of the luminous ray,
that is to say an opaque screen putting the object studied, e.g.
a silver coin, in the shade, one can direct a reflected ray of
light upon it by means of a mirror. Now the experiment shows
that when the reflected luminous ray reaches the silver coin,
all along its path, before and after the mirror, the pendulum
gives the numerical figure of silver. Thus it is clear that the
radiesthetic ray is reflected by the mirror just like the luminous
ray. This observation is important for it establishes a similarity
of nature between luminous, calorific, chemical (if any) and
radiesthetic waves.
First part of experiment (Fig. 9) - No mirror. The luminous
ray and the radiesthetic ray travel along together in a straight
line.
Figure 10. Mir r o r Experim ent (2. Solar ray reflected)
Second part of experiment (Fig. 10) - Mirror introduced. The
silver coin is put in the shade. It is not necessary but convenient
S9
because it will be easier to see the luminous spot which the
mirror directs upon the coin.
When the luminous ray SI, reflected by the mirror, reaches
the coin P, that is to say lights it up, then, and then only, the
pendulum gives the numerical figure of silver along the path SI
and the path IP.
Therefore this experiment has shown the presence of the
radiesthetic ray SIP, reflected at I, on the mirror, exactly as
in the case of the luminous ray.
3. PRISM EXPERIMENT
A room is made dark by putting up the shutters, but an aper­
ture, as small as possible, is made in one of them. (Fig. 11.)
A solar ray penetrates through this aperture, then across the
room, giving rise to a bright spot on the wall opposite. Let us
put a silver coin on that spot. The solar ray which connects it
with the sun is merged with the luminous ray. W e knew that
already, but now a new fact must be taken into consideration.
If a prism is placed in the path of the luminous ray, the lumin­
ous ray is deviated. The silver coin fixed on the wall is no
longer lit up, and the colours of the spectrum arc displayed
on the table placed below.
But the radiesthetic ray has also been deviated by the prism.
The pendulum cannot detect it between the silver coin and
the prism.
It is deviated, but to what extent? To detect it again, let us
take the silver coin slowly towards the spectrum displayed on
the table. If we take it through the spectral zone in both direc­
tions, we shall find four positions of the silver coin which
re-establish the lost radiesthetic ray.
1. In the infra-red zone, at about two lengths of the spec­
trum from the end of the red region. 2, In the infra-red zone,
at the point where red ends. 3. In the ultra-violet zone, at the
point where violet ends. 4. In the ultra-violet zone, at about
two lengths of the spectrum from the end of violet.
60
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
SOME EXPERIMENTS
In these four positions, the radiesthetic ray of silver is re­
established between the coin and the prism as well as between
the prism and the aperture in the shutter.
Fig u re i i . Prism Experiment
5 : Sun. A A 1 : Shutter. B: Hole in shutter. C : Luminous spot on wall.
DD1; Wall. E: First position of silver coin. P : Prism. £l, £2, £3, £4:
Positions of silver coin indicating direction of radiesthetic rays B P E 1 ,
B P E 2 , B P E 1 , B P E *.
This experiment, important as it is to show the similarity
between radiesthetic raj's, calorific, luminous and chemical
rays, deserves to be repeated with laboratory instruments.
4. LENS EXPERIMENT
Hypothesis. Radiesthetic undulations, rays, etc., could be of
an identical nature with that of luminous undulations, rays, etc.
Experiments. If this is so, a glass lens, which has the effect of
causing light rays to intersect, should also cause radiesthetic
rap to intersect.
(In a projection lantern, the slide has to be placed upside-
down, and in such a way that what should appear on the left
of the screen will be on the right of the slide.)
61
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Device. In an ordinary projection lantern we place, instead of
the slide, a gold coin, suspended by a thread so as to hang low
down and to the right.
i . The lamp is lit and focussed upon the screen. The shadow
o f the coin is formed on the screen high up, and to the left.
(Fig. 1 2 .) A mark is made on the wall behind where the
shadow is formed.
H r-*— i
-L , 1 i t I
Q Gold,
coin
Screen
i
—
T i -i 1 i ' i i * l 1
Figu re i 2. Lens Experiment
2. The lamp is put out and allowed to cool, and the screen
changed to eliminate any possibility of remanence. Since,
according to our fundamental hypothesis, the gold coin is a
centre of the emission of waves, it is not necessary that it
should be lit up.
Then, exploring the entire surface o f the screen with the
pendulum, the place is sought for which will give the serial
number 1 1 , which is characteristic of gold. Now the pendulum
does indeed indicate a magnetic image of the coin, in almost
exactly the same place as that in which the shadow of the coin
appeared.
Conclusion. Since, in passing through the lens the radiesthetic
rays are made to intersect exactly like light rays, it is probable
that they are of an identical nature.
$ . THE CASE OF COR.NERS
In prospecting for bodies, one must beware of a singular anom­
aly. A gold or silver coin placed on the ground, on a table or
a ceiling, will give out radiations, except when it is situated
in a corner, that is to say in the angle formed by two walls,
62
SOME EXPERIMENTS
and very near their meeting line. From that point, all radi­
ations cease, at least in that angle. In the four angles thus
formed the radiations obliterate themselves, perhaps by reflec­
tion against the walls and interference between reflected waves.
(See Figs, i 3 and 1 4 .)
R a d ia tio n
63
VI WATER AND CAVITIES
I. RADIESTHETIC FIELD OF WATER
T
HE fundamental ray F is directed towards N .W .
The characteristic figure of water is 7 and the direction of
rotation for pure water is anti-clockwise.
The figure of water is 7 but one must be careful not to mis­
take it for copper, whose figure is also 7 ; sandstone, 7-3;
molasses, 8.
They can be differentiated by the direction of the funda­
mental ray.
Spirals. Spirals are present. Their formula is 3 spirals, 3 spirals,
1 spiral. Total 7, in a half circle, below the horizontal plane.
What may lead one to believe that they do not exist is that
they are formed below the water as the operator stands above
it. He does not explore below the surface which is generally
inaccessible.
Outline. The pendulum outlines the form of the cavity con­
taining water, that is to say the form of the stream, and gives
the direction of the flow.
Weight. The pendulum is attracted and made heavier owing
to the mass of water, the force of the stream and the friction
against its banks.
Radiesthetic power. Water is, by nature, one of the bodies
whose radiant energy is the weakest. Motionless, it is difficult
to feel but its friction against walls enables it to act on the
pendulum. An underground rivulet of water with an output of
1 litre per minute has stronger radiations than 1 o litres on the
surface.
Lines o f force and magnetic surfaces. As we have already ex­
plained, the stream of water is surrounded by seven magnetic
layers whose section on the horizontal plane will give fourteen
lines if the stream is parallel with the ground, or seven con-
64
WATER AND CAVITIES
centric circles if the stream ascends vertically. The most
external of these lines, which I call the great parallel, and the
beginner
)
In the case of very sensitive operators, and in stormy weather,
this group of seven lines can be repeated as many as seven times
and lead one to believe that the presence of water is far away
from its real position. This phenomenon occurs especially on
hill-sides. When called upon to investigate the cause of unsuc­
cessful prospections I have often observed that the operator
had located, at the summit or in the hill-side, a spring which
he should have searched for at the foot of the hill.
2 . CIRCULATION OF WATER
Before prospecting for water, it is advisable to get rid of false
ideas that are current on the way in which it circulates. Let
us remark, in passing, that while geology can serve as a mode
of control in the interpretation of movements of the pendulum,
radiesthetic forces are completely independent.
W e know that underground water is subject to certain
physical laws which, if they were better known, would do
away with a great deal of scepticism. When one states, for
example, that an underground stream flows at a depth of 800
metres under Paris with a force like that of the Seine, one
would like to know where such a mass of water can come from.
A house in a town is supplied with water in two ways.
Water from rain which washes the roofs and disappears through
the drains. Our only concern is to get rid of it. But water in
a city, which has to be paid for, comes under pressure from a
hill far away, circulates in subterranean pipes, penetrates into
a house by way of the cellar and ascends vertically to the top
floor by passing through all floors below. It is the same with
free water. To discover a spring, one thinks first of using the
pendulum in a verdant vale, at the foot of a hill, where the
grass is greener and mixed with marsh plants. It is an error of
judgment. All one will find is some rivulets like roof water,
e
fourth or median line, are the most marked, and a
will only detect these two lines. (See Figs. 2 and 3.
impure and inconstant, which gets dried up in summer. Pure
water, cold, plentiful, inexhaustible, which is worth discover­
ing, comes from mountains far away, and in Eastern France
more often from the Alps.
Water from melting snow and glaciers, and water from
storms, insinuates itself between geological strata; and wedged
under impermeable ceilings, pushed by successive streams,
affected by the forces of gravitation, it flows on underground
in the most fantastic ways, falling sometimes in abysses, warmed
up by going through deep strata, evacuating part of its mass
through narrow chimneys reaching the surface, losing itself in
a bed of sand or else ending its course into the sea.
The underground river in Paris passes at a depth of 1,800
metres below the lake of Geneva, near Lausanne. I have drawn
a map of these subterranean rivers, some of which emerge on
the summit of the Jura mountains. How can one account for
their presence by saying it is due to rain water?
In the chain of the Jura mountains, from Geneva to Bale,
I know of more than a dozen considerable springs emerging at
the summit or in the sides of pointed peaks dominating the
horizon. And these springs, irrespective of periods of drought,
keep up a minimum output which is invariable. And yet the
Jura has no glaciers nor any perpetual snow. Where could such
fine springs of water of constant output at high altitudes come
from, if not from the Alps ?
3. DRINKING WATER
A . Successful Cases
Facts in support of radiesthetic detection of water are so
numerous that we are giving only a selection of them relating
to recent prospections.
Oyannax (A in)
The local authorities of Oyannax found that their supply of
water had dried up. There was no more water. As a result of
geological information it was decided to make three or four
66
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF R AD1ESTHESIA
borings in the neighbourhood of the source of supply at a depth
of 30, £0 and 60 metres respectively, but without any success.
There was still no water. In despair they contacted me
on the ’phone and asked me to see what I could do. After
an hour’s hydrological examination, I said: ‘Here, at a dis­
tance of 1*3-0 metres from the wall of this building, and at a
depth of between 1 2 -13 metres, I can promise you an output
of 1,300 litres a minute.’ This statement only evoked a
smile on the part of those concerned. They would have liked
to believe it but it was too good to be true. But a few days
later, I received the following message: ‘I have the pleasure to
inform you that we have found water corresponding exactly
with your forecast, that is to say 1,300 litres a minute, at a
depth of 12-80 metres and at 1*30 metres from the house where
our mechanic lives. (Signed) Lacroix, Directew.’
Chaffois (Doubs)
Contrary to the assertions of a geologist who on several occa­
sions had attacked me in the local press, and made fun of my
theory that water travels from the Alps to the Jura mountains,
affirming that marshes, lakes and ponds were nothing but the
result of infiltration of rain and melted snow in the Jura, I
indicated to the mayor of Chaffois, in the midst of a marsh,
a place that I requested him to mark himself, not wanting to
get a load of mud on my boots, and told him: ‘There, at the
exact point where you have just put a stake, if you reach down
to the first layer of clay, at a depth of 6-30 metres you will
find a column of water ascending from 80 metres and giving
an output of 630 litres a minute, the water being perfectly
pure and fresh and completely independent of the marsh water. ’
I was proved to be right all along the line. This locality of
Chaffois, which had no water previously, is now supplied with
abundant water, remarkable for its purity and freshness.
Cressier (Neuchatel, Switzerland)
As it is a matter of establishing, conclusively, my theory
which is so bitterly disputed and denied in certain scientific
WATER AND CAVITIES
67
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
circles, I may be permitted to mention a few more facts similar
to the case above.
And here, it will suffice to reproduce textually the letter I
received from a prominent person in Cressier, after the dis­
covery of water had been made. The scraps of conversation
quoted in the letter will give an idea of the fight I was engaged
in about the data of a geologist which seemed to me to be
erroneous and prejudicial to the community. Here again events
proved that I was right. Judge for yourselves.
Victory! At the point indicated, at the depth announced
(exactly 7 metres and in an amount superior to your fore­
cast, 240 litres a minute instead of 200) water has been
found. Since Friday 24th October at 12 a.m., a magnifi­
cent stream of water flows without ceasing and proclaims
your victory.
Boring operations were started on 2 2nd October. Be­
fore the operations were undertaken, M .S., engineer-
geologist, stubbornly insisted for two days on setting the
pump in action in the old hole at various depths. This only
resulted in a few drops of mud flowing intermittently. As
you know, an accident prevented the continuation of bor­
ing at the first point which you had indicated. W e there­
fore decided to explore the second point also indicated
you.
When it was announced that a new boring operation
was going to be carried out at a short distance from the
first point, the engineer smiled and said: ‘ Go on digging
if it gives you any pleasure but you will find no more
water there than here. You will see, you will be com­
pelled to adopt my solution, that is to say boring a large
hole in order to increase the surface of infiltration.’
He waited for the end of this second operation and
arrived on Friday at 2 o’clock, beaming and absolutely
certain that no water would be found in the second hole
any more than in the first hole. When he saw this powerful
68
WATER AND CAVITIES
flow of more than 200 litres manifesting itself without
ceasing, he turned pale. ‘ You see,’ I said, ‘ Abbe Mermet
was right.’ Immediately, a lively discussion followed. He
persisted in maintaining that it was a sheet of water and
not a spring. But I pointed out that if it was a sheet, why
was he unable to get a drop of water from it at a distance
of merely 6 metres? ‘A h ,’ he replied, ‘ that was due to
the fact that here, infiltration meets more permeable
materials.’ Finally, I said to him: ‘Don’t you realise that
you admit, in other words, that it is not a question of a
sheet but of the passage of a streamlet of water, as Abbe
Mermet had always said it was.’
And ever since, the spring continues to give an output
of 240 litres a minute. There is great enthusiasm in the
region.
Congratulations. Don’t forget to come and see the
water which is as clear as crystal.
(Signed) P, Raboud. 26th October 193°-
N.B. I will only add a few words to these suggestive lines.
I had also indicated that the water in question would have a
temperature of 90 whereas that of water from infiltration on
the surface would be 1 2-140. My forecast was exactly realised,
and water discovered at Cressier had actually a temperature
of 90. It will remain perfectly pure if care is taken to surround
it with a water-tight partition right up to the summit of its
ascending column. For this water from the Alps, ascending by
a chimney of sand through a layer of marl, is free from any
contamination along this chimney. It is only at the point of its
exit, at a depth of about 10 metres, that it could receive water
from the surface infiltrated through the upper sandy layers.
Rira S. Vitale (Tessin, Switzerland)
The story of the drinking water supply of this locality is worth
telling briefly. In this beautiful place, nestling at the foot of
precipitous cliffs at the end of the lake of Lugano, repeated
attempts had been made to discover water, but all in vain.
69
And, of course, they were looking for water where it could
not be found, that is to say in the mountain, always under the
influence of the idea that water must go down and not go up.
Confronted with negative results of digging, some of the
local people looked towards Capolago, a neighbouring locality,
which had made great efforts to pump water where reeds were
found at the end of the lake. They would not have been alto­
gether displeased to see their neighbourly sister, Riva S. Vitale,
share the expenses and the disappointments. Eventually, some
well-advised local people decided to consult me. A meeting
was held at the town hall attended by the local councillors.
I tried to show' that the Capolago project would be a mis­
calculation as much from the point of view of expense as from
that of the quality of water. I also told them that if the previous
digging operations were unsuccessful it was due to the fact that
they were looking for water in the mountain where it could
not be found, but actually there existed a fine spring which
could be detected behind the town, a powerful spring with an
output of i ,000 litres a minute giving water of very pure and
fresh quality which they would find at a depth of about 2 j
metres. I explained, by following its course on a mural map,
that it came from the Alps in the N .E. and that it passed under
the lake at a depth of 200 metres.
Some of the councillors were sceptical and it was very diffi­
cult to convince others who favoured the Capolago experiment.
However, as the risks did not appear to be great in view of the
hopeful prospects I held out, they decided that boring should
be carried out, A few weeks later, on 6th April 1929, I re­
ceived the following letter.
I could not write to you sooner for it is only these last
few days that the Cantonal chemical laboratory has given
us the result of its analysis confirming the perfect pota­
bility of water which was found at the depth of 23 metres,
at the place indicated by you, and with an output of 1,000
litre, a minut*. Dr David S e „i.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
7°
It would be easy to give further examples in support of my
theory that water flows from the Alps to the Jura. Perhaps I
may be allowed to add the following case which is very signi­
ficant owing to the circumstances involved.
Praagins
This locality, famous for the enforced stay there of the Emperor
of Austria, Charles IV, during the war, had consulted a geo­
logist in Lausanne (Switzerland) to prospect for water.
This expert, who was well known for his antagonistic atti­
tude towards dowsers, expressed his intention of searching for
water at the foot of the Jura and at a distance of three miles
away, involving considerable expense. But before agreeing to
this, someone suggested to Colonel Yersin, a high official,
that he should consult me, to see if, really, there was not any
water nearer which would be less costly to obtain and more
reliable as regards output and quality.
As it was an urgent matter I came at once and in the town
hall I announced that it would be quite unnecessary to look for
water so far away since there was some on their door-step, as
it were, with an output of 800 litres a minute, and very good
water of the Alps too, passing under the lake and almost to
the surface of the ground, at a depth of 3 or 4 metres, flowing
through a filtering bed of sand.
After having overcome all opposition by proposing that all
digging operations should be done at my own expense if no
water could be found, they agreed to proceed in accordance
with my plan.
And this is how the official in charge replied on 30th January
1929 to certain insidious questions which were put to him
with a purpose that can easily be guessed.
Has any water been found? —Yes.
How many litres per minute? — 800.
At what depth? - At y g o metres.
Has there been any difference as regards the place indi-
WATER AND CAVITIES
7i
cated by Abbe Mermet, and if so, what is the extent of
the error? —No error whatever.
W hy was not the water indicated by geologists and engin­
eers made use of? — Because, having made the experi­
mental boring and having found the water there, we were
perfectly satisfied from every point of view.
Has this water been analysed? —Yes. As far as temperature
and quality are concerned, it has completely fulfilled all
Abbe Mermet’s expectations.
Hjeres-sur-Mer
The department of Doubs owns near this town on the sea coast
an establishment called ‘ Pomponiana’ , a winter resort for weak
children. But there was no drinking water available there. All
experimental operations had only given brackish water. Canon
Mourot, the guiding spirit of this magnificent enterprise, sent
me a plan of this delightful part of the country where I dis­
covered, in the garden of the establishment itself, a fine spring
of fresh water at a depth of i 2 -i £ metres, with an output of
80 litres a minute, and perfectly drinkable.
I was especially requested to visit the site in order to indicate
the precise place for carrying out digging operations. This was
duly done, and, on the 4th September 1931, I received the
following telegram: ‘ Water found. Stopping digging. Congra­
tulations on successful result. (Signed) Mourot.’
Just as the pendulum was capable of differentiating at Cressier
and Riva S. Vitale the water of the mountain from the water of
the marsh and of the surface of the ground, so it was equally
capable of differentiating at Hyeres the only potable water,
pure and fresh, from the brackish water found everywhere else
there.
Saint-Cesaire (Nimes)
After having discovered pure water in the midst of marshes,
and also surface water and brackish water, we shall end this
chapter by giving an account of a case which caused a sensation
in Nimes among engineers and journalists.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
72
A Paris firm known as ‘ La Meilleraye’ , specialising in tarring
roads, had chosen to establish a factory in the neighbourhood
of Nimes. But they required a great deal of water. The firm
was awaiting the result of boring operations made nearby but
as no definite information was forthcoming, it was decided to
consult me. Those who knew all about the local hydrographic
situation were very intrigued. I told them at the outset that
there was no surface water but that there was water deep down
which came in a straight line from the mountains in Eastern
France, such as the famous fountain in Nimes which originates
from them. I informed them that at a distance of 20 metres
from the factor)", digging operations at a depth of 400 metres
would show that there was a good supply of water amounting
to 1,200 litres a minute, and also if digging were done at
3 metres from the factory another spring would be found at a
depth of about 100 metres giving a supply of 300 litres a minute,
and the water would be excellent from every point of view.
Furthermore, the water would rise up to 20 metres below the
level of the ground.
Those who thought they knew all about the hydrographic
situation all around Nimes made fun of my forecast. During
the boring operations, one after another came on the site and
went away more convinced than ever that his scepticism was
justified. And whether it was due to the hostile attitude of the
visitors or to the ground which was becoming more and more
hard and dry, the workers themselves were getting discouraged.
The manager of the enterprise who was a skilled and intelli­
gent engineer, confident of achieving success in the end, made
up his mind to ask me to return on location in order to restore
the morale of the discouraged workers. I duly went as re­
quested, and after about ten minutes, I said to them, in the
w ords of the Gospel: ‘ O ye of little faith, wherefore did you
doubt? I told you the water would be found at a depth of
100-11 o metres, and you are now only at a depth of 100 metres.
Therefore, keep on boring.’
A few7days afterwards, 1had the joy of receiving the follow-
WATER AND CAVITIES
73
ing telegram, dated 31st August 1931. ‘Complete success.
Congratulations. (Signed) Rouquette.’
Florent-Argonne (Marne)
M Antoine, mayor of this locality, testified in a letter,
dated 3rd January 1931, that: ‘After having surveyed the site,
Abbe Mermet discovered, at a short distance from the village
(where we were told there was no water above a depth of
120-140 metres), an output of drinking water exceeding two or
three times the amount necessary for the needs of the locality,
and at a depth much less (about half) than that indicated by the
geologists. The water was found to be very good by the experts
concerned.1
Bornes (Var)
It was necessary to find water for the new owner of the fort at
Bregan^on. But in this region, nature had not been lavish with
water. Those who were lucky enough to have some used it
carefully, only a pint at a time. After having explored those
parts, my pendulum detected a streamlet of water giving j
litres a minute at a depth of 40-4 f metres and a distance of
5-6 metres from the sea, and an estimated pressure of about
36 metres.
According to my forecast, it was a stream from an artesian
source escaping from a powerful stream of good water coming
from a mountain in the region and flowing into the sea.
This artesian streamlet ascended obliquely through fissures
of quartz, sandstone, etc., and having reached an average depth
of 42 metres, it dispersed itself vertically.
But there were great difficulties to overcome. First, the ex­
cessive hardness of the ground which compelled the workers
to use new tools two or three times a day. Then, this streamlet,
after the impermeable obstacle had been perforated, had to
ascend from a depth of 3 8 metres up to the boring hole. And
lastly, being so near the sea, and even passing under the sea, it
was essential that this streamlet of good water should remain
free from saline impregnation.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
74
One was anxiously wondering whether all these difficulties
could be overcome. W ell, they were overcome, for an output
of 5 litres a minute of good water was found at a depth of
42-50 metres and it ascended up to 4 metres below the level
of the ground.
Furthermore, this water was duly found to be quite good,
as forecast, and it has remained so at its entrance into the
bottom of the hole dug into the ground on the site in question.
The realisation of this operation under such complex con­
ditions constitutes, according to those who witnessed it, a
remarkable feat.
Vireloup (Genera —Switzerland)
I quote below a letter from Mr Gustave Charmot, market-
gardener, dated 3rd October 1933.
Please forgive the delay in writing to you to thank you
for your forecast. W e have found water, as you had told
us, at a depth of 8-50 metres, and the output is also in
strict accordance with what you said, namely an average
of 12 litres a minute.
I should also like to pay tribute to your ability and pre­
cision concerning the site and the spring, both having
been perfectly correct.
W ith very many thanks and kindest regards.
(Signed) G. C.
This market-gardener had bought, near Geneva, on a high
plateau, a nice little property for his particular purpose. But
what he had not foreseen wr
as the absolute lack of water there.
He had already, on the instructions of an incompetent dowser,
gone to the expense of having a well dug but it remained dry.
Then he consulted me, and after spending ten minutes on the
site, I told him where to dig at a depth of 8*50 metres where
he would find an output of 12 litres a minute. The result was
as described above.
WATER AND CAVITIES
7S
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Feternes (Haute-Savoie)
Recently, at Feternes, a locality without any fresh water for
centuries, I indicated, on the summit of a hill, a great spring
at little depth. My seemingly improbable forecast w'as con­
firmed in a letter stating that the water had been found with
an output of 1 70 litres a minute, and at a depth of 7-50 metres.
The water was of excellent quality and the output constant.
Other Localities
Among others, the following localities are indebted to me for
an abundant supply of water.
La Tour-de-Treme (Switzerland),
Droisy (Haute-Savoie),
Hermance (Switzerland),
Messcry (Haute-Savoie),
Larringes (Haute-Savoie),
Ballaison (Haute-Savoie),
Abondance (Haute-Savoie).
B. Recent Failures
However hard the blow may be to the self-esteem of the pro­
fessional, for the sake of truth one is compelled to admit a
certain number of failures. Whether they are due to proceeding
too hastily, to a state of things particularly complicated or even
to ignorance of causes insufficiently known, failure results in
producing modesty and is instructive for oneself as well as for
others. It gives us a very useful lesson in prudence.
First Case
In a town in Northern France, I forecast an output of drinking
water amounting to 1,700 litres a minute. At a depth greater
than that announced (because of a layer of marl harder and
thicker than forecast) boring operations duly showed the prom­
ised output of 1,700 litres a minute but of brackish water
which was useless.
I simply did not think of asking myself whether this water
would be drinkable.
76
WATER AND CAVITIES
Second Case
Quite near my own home, I forecast a supply of water amount­
ing to 1 2 litres a minute at a depth of about 6-7 metres. But at
a depth of y g o metres an output of i-g litres was found, an
insignificant amount for the property which needed water.
How did this error come about? From a fairly common cause
to which dowsers cannot pay too much attention.
There was a spring with an output of 1 2 litres at a depth of
30 metres, and another spring amounting to 1 -g litres at a depth
of 7-go metres. When I was searching for the output of
water, the greater of the two springs was detected, and I found
12 litres. But when I was searching for the depth, it was the
spring nearest to me, that giving i-g litres, which attracted my
attention.
Third Case
While doing my prospecting work I was asked one day for my
advice on the possible existence of a spring. I stated that there
was a spring but nothing was found. W hy? After having made
a distant examination of the hole I realised that there was
actually no sign of water. I asked that further operations should
be stopped.
I had acted too hastily and had mistaken the shadow for the
object, the magnetic image for the real image. A spring existed
in the neighbourhood at a depth of g metres, and when the
diggers had reached the depth of g metres, the magnetic image
which was at the same level as the real water had disappeared,
and it was no longer possible to detect anything.
Here are three cases of failures brought about by three dif­
ferent causes. They are significant enough to chasten an old
practitioner who has made hundreds of successful prospections,
but by taking cognisance of them my colleagues will be able to
avoid such failures or similar ones. One keeps on learning
every day.
In an experimental field like that of Radiesthesia, where
there are still so many unknown factors, one cannot be too
prudent in the course of one’s prospecting activities.
77
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
4. MINERAL WATERS
A mineral water contains in solution certain foreign substances.
The pendulum reacts as follows: if the serial number of 7
is continued, it is an indication that the water is pure. If not,
one must search to see if it contains some substance or other
by concentrating one’s attention on it. If the water contains
salt (such as sea water) the numerical figure of salt will be
obtained: 1 2. If the water is sulphurous, the figure of sulphur:
18 ; and magnesium gives 19.
I have often noticed, especially in the neighbourhood of
Beziers, the following fact. As the pendulum enables us to
differentiate between sea water and fresh water it has been
found that sea water penetrating deep down through geological
faults ultimately reaches the surface of the ground. Owing to
the principle of communicating channels, it re-ascends towards
the level of the sea through deposits of sand, thus getting rid of
its salt and appearing in the form of fresh water.
The pendulum also enables us to trace the course of colder
streams which, coming from the mountains, run into the bot­
tom of a lake, and the numerous rivers in calcareous strata
finding an outlet in the sea, near the coast. I have indicated a
fine spring coming from under the sea at a depth of 30 metres,
at a distance of 300 metres from Monaco, and several similar
cases in the lake of Geneva where I showed local anglers where
trout would be found throughout the year.
Sultzmatt (Upper Rhine)
In 1927, I was asked to re-discover a mineral water which
had been used in the past, but whose present location was no
longer known. Some time later I received the following letter
from an official of the locality: ‘W e have much pleasure in
enclosing your fee for your prospection which was crowned
with success.’
Yrerdon (Switzerland)
There exists in this town a mineral water possessing remark­
able qualities which proved very beneficial in affections of the
78
WATER AND CAVITIES
liver and gastro-intestinal tract. It was already famous in Roman
times. The output of this water had gradually diminished, and
to make things worse, a mountain water had become mixed
with it.
The new' owner of the spring consulted me. I advised that a
small well should be dug beside that of the mineral wr
ater. By
doing so, the mountain water was found and deviated. After
this operation, the mineral water recovered its pristine purity.
ClermoDt-sur-Oise (Fitzjantes Castle)
In the course of 1934, the owner of this castle asked me to try
and recover the location of a mineral water which, according
to historical records, was known and used in Roman times.
On arrival at the castle, according to my usual custom, I
made my survey of the horizon and told the owner that I had
detected the radiation of a mineral water in a direction which I
indicated with my hand, at a distance of 6^o metres and a depth
of 21 metres, with an output of 12 litres per minute. W e duly
proceeded in that direction and at the distance indicated, a
stake was fixed into the ground. Digging operations were carried
out and all my indications as regards the direction, location,
mineralisation, depth and output, were found to be correct.
Miers
My old friend, Armand Vire, Doctor of Science and devoted
member of the committee of the Association of the Friends of
Radiesthesia, after having read one of the early editions of the
present work, said to m e: ‘ But why didn’t you mention what
you discovered at Miers, it is one of your most impressive
exploits.’ I must now fill the gap.
In July 19 13 , while on an excursion in the Lot region with
my friend Vire, who was then a beginner in Radiesthesia, I was
asked to go to the locality of Miers (near Padirac) where there
was some very interesting work for me to do. A Company had
been organised to exploit a mineral water of an exceptional
nature for it seemed that it was the only water in France which
had a composition similar to that of Carlsbad. All the plans and
79
arrangements for the commercial exploitation of the water
were ready when suddenly it w'as discovered that the water
was now demineralised. The Company directors were greatly
alarmed.
After working on location with the pendulum for about an
hour I was in a position to state that owing to recent heavy
rainfall a new stream of water had caused a subterranean land­
slip but that this could be rectified by constructing a gallery in
a certain direction and as far as a point which I indicated in a
precise manner. I forecast that by following my instructions
the mineral water would be recovered both as regards its for­
mer quantity and quality.
The operation was carried out and my forecast was proved
to be correct in every detail.
g . IMPURE WATERS
It is important to be able to detect water contaminated by
organic matter or microbes, and dangerous for human con­
sumption.
Here again, after having obtained the numerical figure for
water and noted that it is not maintained, one must find out if
the pendulum gives the figure for ammonia or various bacilli
causing typhoid, cholera, etc.
BeUelay (Berne — Switzerland)
At certain times, after a rainfall, the fine spring which supplied
an establishment here, was found to be coloured yellow and
with a characteristic taste and smell. But where exactly did the
contamination take place? I indicated a farm two miles away
and advised a ‘perimeter of protection’ all round this farm, and
this put an end to the contamination once and for all.
Travers (Neuchatel - Switzerland)
To get rid of the cause which contaminated the water at certain
times, I advised putting a layer of clay of the thickness of one
metre over a vertical fissure which I thought was in communi-
80
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
WATER AND CAVITIES
Vercel (Doubs)
One evening, returning from Villers-le-Lac, where I had been
prospecting, I was stopped by the local policeman who in­
formed me that the mayor wanted to see me. When I called
on him he told me that in his locality they had had no drinking
water for the last five years. I said to him that I could feel quite
nearby a powerful spring of water. ‘ Oh, yes,’ he replied, ‘but
it is contaminated. W e have tried everything on the advice of
Government chemists but without the slightest result. Our
great fountain is a mockery. It gives us a water with a colour
and a smell which are repulsive and which bacteriological ana­
lysis declares to be dangerous.’
Holding the pendulum in my hand, and without leaving the
mayor’s room, I told him that the water was contaminated at
a distance of 202 metres from the fountain in a western
direction. I detected at a depth of 3-3:0 metres a streamlet
giving £ litres a minute joining at right angles a stream
from a cesspool situated 50 metres away. This streamlet was
running into a geological fault in the ground connected with
the water supplying the fountain. I took the mayor and the
councillors to the site that I had located at a distance.
A fortnight later, M Robbe, an architect who was then
mayor of Pontarlier, wrote me as follows:
W e started digging yesterday at the place you indicated
and we duly discovered at a depth of 3-30 metres the
streamlet of impure water which was contaminating the
public fountain. W e diverted it and the water has become
once again perfectly drinkable. All our congratulations.
As a case of distant prospection and detection on location,
it would hardly be possible to have given more precise in­
formation.
cation w ith the subterranean w ater. From that tim e onwards,
the w ater rem ained clear and fresh.
F 8 l
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
6. ICE
Pure ice gives the numerical figure of water as well as the
number of degrees below zero, and zero centigrade corres­
ponds to melting ice.
Ice from sea water gives the same indications as sea water,
within a degree or so.
7. CLOUDS
Clouds, being formed from water vapour, act on the pendulum
like pure water. This can be useful for forecasting the weather.
The possibility of determining from afar the presence of a
rain cloud at a certain distance would enable the pendulist
to forecast rain at a certain time provided he was equipped
with an apparatus for measuring the direction and the speed
of the wind.
8. CAVITIES
The pendulum enables us to detect subterranean cavities quite
easily.
Direction of the Fundamental Ray: North.
Figure: 6,
Direction of Rotation: Anti-clockwise.
Spirals: 2 groups of 3 spirals.
W eight: distinct lightening of the pendulum.
N.B. The cavity must be a closed one. The region where air
penetrates into the cavity will not give the signs mentioned
above. Thus it is easy to make a mistake about the dimensions
of an underground cavity.9
9. ABSOLUTE VACUUM
The absence of any known body may be studied in a container
such as an ordinary electric bulb, a Crookes’ tube or an
X-ray tube, where rarefaction is achieved to the extent of one
thousandth of a millimetre of mercury.
The pendulum gives the figure of 6, as for cavities. Then, it
82
goes on giving the characteristics of metals contained in them,
such as electrodes or filaments in the case of electric bulbs.
The following experiment enables us to show the similar­
ity existing between radicsthetic rays and luminous rays. An
ordinary electric bulb will serve our purpose. W e know that
its interior is almost an absolute vacuum. And yet, the fila­
ments are visible, and as the current passes through them,
they give off light and heat. As the mind cannot conceive
transmission without some kind of intermediary agent, one
is led to suppose that in an absolute vacuum there exists an
unknown substance, the ether, whose undulations convey
calorific and luminous rays. Over an electric bulb, the pendu­
lum gives the figure of a vacuum, then the figures and direction
of rotation of the metals used for the filaments. Thus the
pendulum is influenced by them. As this influence is mani­
fested through a space devoid of all known substances, except
the ether, it is reasonable to conclude that the vibrating sub­
stance is the same for radiesthetic waves as for calorific,
chemical and luminous waves.
IO. SUBTERRANEAN CAVITIES
Jardin des Plantes (Paris')
Following the Congress of Dowsers in March 19 13 , M Vire,
Doctor of Science and Professor in Paris, and the distinguished
president of the Association of the Friends of Radiesthesia,
wrote as follows:
The experiments carried out in the Bois de Vincennes
had an aftermath. M Vire asked Abbe Mermet to come
to the Museum so that he might, with his pendulum, fix
the limits of certain subterranean cavities. In the court of
the Museum, before the statue of the famous scientist
Chevreul, who ironically enough was an opponent of the
pendulum, Abbe Mermet was able in a few moments
with the aid of his silver watch to fix the limits of M
Vire’s underground laboratory with astonishing accuracy.
WATER AND CAVITIES
83
In about two hours, Abbe Mermet determined exactly
the front part of a quarry situated under the Museum.
He gave a depth of 9 metres which was absolutely correct.
(Extract from the scientific review La Nature, 4th April
1913-)
Catacombs (Rome)
One day I was called upon by Mgr Belvederi, Secretary of the
Pontifical Institute of Sacred Archaeology, to make a study of
the catacombs. This prelate, without any warning, wanted to
put me to the test. He informed me that an institution for
orphans had just been erected and that further building opera­
tions were contemplated in the vicinity. He said it would be
interesting to know if there were perhaps some cavity or
monument hidden underground. And he asked me to survey
the site in question.
I requested Mgr Belvederi that I should be left alone while
working, and after a few minutes, I was able to tell him that
under this new building there was something of a rather
curious nature: there was a round empty space 6 metres in
diameter and 4 metres high, and to reach it or to come out
of it, there was a staircase on an inclined plane which seemed
to have 16 steps and appeared to be made of marble.
Mgr Belvederi smiled, gave me a handshake and said: ‘I
congratulate you. When we started digging operations here
for the foundations, the workers came to tell me that they had
found two pieces of marble which seemed to be like steps. I
told them to continue searching to see if they could find more
steps. And, in point of fact, they actually found another 14
steps set on an inclined plane, forming a perfect staircase, and
at the bottom they found an empty crypt, 6 metres in diameter
and 4 metres high.’ Perfect accuracy!
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
84
VII OTHER LIQUIDS AND GASES
I . PETROLEUM
P
ETRO LEUM is found in three different forms, liquid, bitu­
minous or gaseous.
A. Crude Liquid Petroleum
The fundamental ray F takes the direction of 6o° N .W .
Serial number: 22.
Direction of rotation: Clockwise.
Spirals: 7 groups of 3 spirals plus 1 spiral.
Weight: it attracts the pendulum and makes it feel
heavier.
Characteristic impression: the pendulum seems to be
moving in an oil bath.
B. Bituminous Petroleum —Solid
The pendulum gives the figure of crude petroleum, and then
the figures of foreign bodies that it contains, notably bitumen:
total: 30.
C. Gaseous Petroleum
Serial number: 14.
Direction of rotation: Anti-clockwise.
Methane and other hydrocarbons have different figures.
Spiral: Almost the same form and same direction as for
liquid petroleum.
W eight: It lightens the pendulum and makes it dance in
the air.
2 . CASES OF PETROLEUM PROSPECTION
Tliouanet {Algeria)
The following is an extract from a report by M Mena,
engineer-geologist, addressed to the Administrative Council of
the French Company of Algerian Petroleum, dated 20th De­
cember 1922.
8S
Since the visit of Abbe Mcrmet here, the boring opera­
tions 30 and 31 proved to be useless as he had forecast.
Boring operation 22, for which Abb6 Mermet said that
not sufficient petroleum would be found for industrial
purposes, only gave insignificant traces.
For boring operation 32, Abbe Mermet said that we
ought to find an output similar to that of operation 27,
giving the following depths for different quantities to be
found:
Depth forecast: 60 metres. At 33 metres, traces of
petroleum.
Depth forecast: 100 metres. At 98 metres slight
traces.
Depth forecast: 130 metres. At 129 metres small
strata of petroleum, followed immediately by brackish
water.
Furthermore, in this boring operation gas was found
at a depth of 118 metres and traces of petroleum at
r j6 metres.
Generally speaking, the depths indicated were very
nearly correct.
The following is an extract from a letter from M Mena to
Abbe Mermet.
Boring operation 22, which was in progress while you
were on location here and which you said would not
yield a sufficient quantity of petroleum, had results in
accordance with your forecast, and only insignificant
traces were found.
I resumed boring operation 21 which you had indicated
would give appreciable quantities of petroleum. At
depths of 79 metres and 94 metres I found layers giving
respectively 600 and 800 kilos a day; and at a depth of
102 metres a layer giving gushings of petroleum was
found. Altogether, it is a success for you. Boring oper-
86
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
ation 30, which you had forecast would be useless,
proved to be so.
W ith many thanks.
(Signed) Mena. Engineer-Geologist, Tliouanet (Algeria)
OTHER LIQUIDS AND GASES
Dolina (Eastern Galicia)
One day I visited the site of a boring operation in Galicia. I
asked the engineer in charge what he was searching for.
‘ Petroleum’ , he answered. ‘ Are you sure you will find some?’
I said. ‘Absolutely sure’ , he retorted. ‘ At what depth?’ At
300 metres, he thought.
‘ What gives you this assurance?’ I asked him.
He said: ‘There are three wells hidden behind this hill and
we know now the course of the petroleum line. W e found
some petroleum there at a depth of 300 metres and we shall
find it here at the same depth.’
I told him that I was sorry to contradict him but that he
would find no petroleum there because the petroleum line,
through a geological freak, ended at a few metres from there,
took a tangential direction and passed under a stream nearby;
and where boring was in progress, they would find nothing.
My explanation was not favourably received and digging
operations were carried out at 300, 400, 800 and 1,200 metres
but no petroleum was found.
How could it have been otherwise? The greatest expert geo­
logist could not have foreseen such an accidental possibility.
In America, where mining engineers have been working for
over half a century and are supposed to know all about the
subsoil, an American technical journal of the petroleum
industry published some statistics showing that in the United
States no fewer than eighteen useless wells were bored on an
average before one productive well was found.
On the other hand, for the radiesthetist knowing the radia­
tions of petroleum, there is no possibility of error about the
presence of petroleum at any given site.
' 87
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
3. GASES
I particularly want to draw the attention of beginners to the
presence of gas, for there is some almost everywhere, either
in the form of marsh gas or gas from petroleum.
Where liquid petroleum cannot penetrate, gaseous petrol­
eum owing to its nature and force of expansion insinuates
itself everywhere. Sometimes a pool of water with a surface
rainbow appearance and characteristic smell gives one the
illusion of the presence of petroleum. But when digging is
carried out, nothing is found. The petroleum does exist —but
perhaps hundreds of miles awr
ay.
I am convinced that by taking into account the various
kinds of radiations, as indicated above, there would be no
such errors.
In several places I have successfully carried our prospections
for subterranean gas. For instance in Chatillon, Cluses (Haute-
Savoie), Vaulx, near Amberieux, and on several occasions in
Galicia where engineers told me they had enough petroleum.
What they wanted was more gas so that it could be used for
various purposes, especially lighting and heating.
In a lecture, in the Wagram Hall in Paris on 26th June 1932,
I mentioned the presence of an enormous quantity of gas, quite
near Paris, at a depth of 1,100 metres. And other cities are
also potentially rich in gas, such as Lausanne (Switzerland) and
in the South of France, Avignon, Nimes, Montpellier, Beziers,
Narbonne. All these cities and towns could get their lighting
and heating without any expense except that of boring
operations.
I now reproduce the text giving four accounts of authentic
facts which were published in Homoeopathic Moderne (1st July
1933) and written by Dr Chavanon, one of our most disting­
uished members, who was giving a course of lectures to his
colleagues on Homoeopathic Medicine. (See also page 214.)
First, giving an account of the Congress of Radiesthcsia held
in Paris in June 1933, he refers to four apparatuses of great
88
OTHER LIQUIDS AND GASES
precision which enable one to demonstrate, physically and
materially, with graduated scales, the existence and intensity
of the radiations detected by dowsers. Then he proceeds to
discuss the subject of distant prospection on maps and plans
as follows:
Many people have been able to demonstrate by facts,
officially and scientifically controlled, with irrefutable
proofs, that distant prospections on plans, even when
carried out thousands of miles away from the actual sites,
are entirely successful, and often show that the opinions
of mining engineers are wide of the mark. Digging opera­
tions have proved that it is the dowser, working at a
great distance away, who was right in every respect in
regard to site, depth, quality of mineral ore or water,
output, etc.
W e give below a few striking examples of the work of
one of the most famous radiesthetists of our time, Abbe
Mermet.
d . Discovery of gas at Cuarny
Ten years ago, in Switzerland, a French engineer went to
see Abbe Mermet to find out whether there was any
petroleum in Switzerland. The Abbe made a rapid survey
on a map and said that there might be some gas but no
petroleum. In fact, he found a source of gas above
Yverdon, at Cuarny. Then they set out for the location
indicated, accompanied by M Blumenstein, a chemical
engineer, and Vicomte de Bonneval. Arriving at Cuarny
the Abbe began searching for the site in question and
found that the actual place, strange as it may seem, was
under a farm-cart covered with mud, situated at a dis­
tance of 200 metres from where they were. There they
actually found a source of gas in the clay subsoil. When
they started digging they found a metallic tube below the
surface giving out gas which proved to be inflammable.
Digging was continued around the tube until it was com-
89
pletely unearthed, and it was observed that it was of a
kind used in that region as a blow-pipe for the hearth.
At the place where the tube was dug up, there was a
great hole from which gas was still coming out. On
making enquiries locally as to how this tube came to be
put there, an old woman said that some shepherds had
stuck it into the ground in the winter and found they
could light it to warm themselves in cold weather.
Neither the Abbe nor any of his companions knew any­
thing about this tube before the search for gas was
undertaken.
In that locality, a derrick to drill for petroleum was
installed. The Belgian engineer, responsible for the enter­
prise, was guided by the principle that ‘There is no
smoke without fire and no fire without fuel.’ When
interviewed by journalists, Abbe Mermet said that in his
opinion digging operations would uncover layers of marl
impregnated with petroleum but that no liquid petrol
would be found, even to a depth of 4,000 metres. The
future will show the worth of his forecast based entirely
on radiesthetic data.
B . D is c o v e r j o f g a s b j ‘ m en ta l ’ p ro sp e ctio n
Abbe Mermet was in Galicia prospecting for petroleum
in 1922. M Husson, an engineer from Arcachon who was
in charge of operations in that country asked him, while
they were travelling in the train, whether he thought
there was any petroleum in the Arcachon region. Abbe
Mermet, who knew that region, recalled a mental picture
of it, and with his pendulum found that there was some
petroleum gas. ‘Ah,’ said the engineer, ‘if only it was on
my own property.’ ‘W ell,’ replied the Abbe, ‘give me a
rough sketch of your property.’ Using it as a guide the
Abbe found a place on it which he marked with a pencil
and said that there was a pocket of petroleum gas there
at a depth of 2-80 metres.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Some time later, the engineer informed Abbe Mermet
that on his return home he had started digging operations,
and at a depth of 2-8o metres exactly, he found a power­
ful escape of gas which was highly inflammable. This he
has been able to use for practical purposes. The incident
occurred four years ago.
4. WINE
Direction of fundamental ray: 6o° N .W .
Direction of rotation: Clockwise.
The figure indicated by the pendulum is that of the degree
of alcohol in wine.
In this connection there is an interesting little story. At a
banquet in a town in Switzerland I observed that the wine in
my glass was slightly lighter in colour than that of my neigh­
bour. Discreetly taking the pendulum out of my pocket 1
found that my wine gave a figure of 9 whereas that of my
neighbour gave 1 1 . I drew the attention of the waitress to this
but she said it was impossible, for it was all the same wine.
When the meal was over I spoke about it to the manager of
the hotel and asked him to give me an explanation if lie could.
He gave me the same answer as the waitress. ‘ All the wine was
drawn from the same barrel and therefore what you say is
impossible.’ So he thought. But as I insisted, the manager
called the waitress and asked her if she could account for w hat
I had noticed. The poor girl blushed and confessed that she
had filled all the wine jugs from the same demijohn, but the
wine had run short in filling the last jug, and as she was in
rather a hurry she did not go down to the cellar but finished
filling the jug with water. And it so happened that the wr
ine
in my glass came from the last jug.
Another incident is worth recording. In Geneva I had a
good wine merchant. I told him never to give me any wine
exceeding 10*5° of alcohol. But one day I received a supply of
French red wine which, in my opinion, gave a higher figure,
II •30. I duly mentioned it to my wine merchant who swore
OTHER LIQUIDS AND GASES
91
that he had done nothing against my instructions. I made a bet
with him, and when his assistant checked the alcoholic content
of the wine with an appropriate instrument, the figure given
was i t ’ s. But as this instrument was known to be 2-ioths
above normal, the reading for the wine was actually 1 1*3, the
figure which I had detected with the pendulum.
At Aignay-le-Duc (Cote d’O r), an incredulous inn-keeper
was compelled to accept the evidence of facts when for three
different kinds of wine I found the exact degree of alcohol for
each one as certified by the Excise Office.
S . LIQUEURS
Direction of fundamental ray: jo° N .W .
Direction of rotation: Anti-clockwise.
The figure is that of the degree of pure alcohol of the
liqueur tested.
6. MILK
Direction of Fundamental ray: S.E.
Direction of rotation: Anti-clockwise.
Figure: 9.
Spirals: 3 times 3 spirals.
Nothing is easier than finding out by means of the pendulum
if a sample of milk is watered or not. All one has to do is to
look for the radiation of water.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
92
VIII METALLOIDS, METALS
AND OTHER BODIES
I . TABLE OF SERIAL NUM BERS AND FUNDAM ENTAL RAYS
Stria!
Humber
Body Direction o f Fundamental Bay
4 Iron, Steel S.
4-4 Limestone N, (Geographical)
S Aluminium 71° N.E.
s Nickel 11° S.E.
s Nickeline (Sulphide of nickel) 4 o0S.E.
6 Cavities jo” N.W.
6 Methane (Marsh gas) —
6 Silver E.
1 Copper, Bronze 41° S.W.
7 Water 30° N.W.
7 Tin J7° N.E.
7 Cassiterite (Oxide of tin) 7s° N.W.
8 Limestone (marly) —
9 Silcx (siliceous stones andglass) 30° N.W.
9 Blende (Sulphide of zinc) N. (Geographical)
9 Monidylene 30° S.W.
9 M
anganese 41° S.W.
lo Silex (flint) —
3 0 Arsenic (crude) E.
30 Cobalt S.
I I Magnesium N. (Geographical)
C normally W.
I I Gold < sometimes N.
rarely E.
I 3 -IJ Soft m
arl —
11 Sodium, sodium chloride N. (Geographical)
I I Bismuth (metallic) 71° N.E.
IJ Potassium 6o° N.E.
"4 Chromium 71° N.E.
14 Chromite E.
'4 Gaseous petroleum 13° N.E.
if Lime 30° S.E.
if Wolfram (Tungstate of m
anganese)
f E. for Tungsten
^3° N.W. for Manganese
'f Mercury 370N.E.
>1 Cinnabar (Sulphide of mercury) 37° N.E.
'I Cobaltine (Sulphide ofantimony andCobalt) S.
9 3
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Serial
Number
Body Direction o f Fundamental Rajr
1$-21 Hard m
arl i j ° N.E.
*7 Phosphates 4 S ° S.W.
17 Zinc 45° S.E.
17 Stibnite (Sulphide of antimony) 30° N.E.
18 Iodine —
18 Sulphur 30° N.W.
21 Lead 60° N.W.
21 Galena (Sulphide of lead) 4 3 ° N.W.
21 Hard Marl ii° N.E.
22 Radioactive bodies —
22 Crude Petroleum (liquid) 30° N.W.
22 Platinum —
30 Pyrulosite (Manganese dioxide) j° N.W.
30 Carbon (coal, graphite and diamond) 7S ° S.W.
2 . CASES OF PROSPECTION
A. Salt
Buix, near Delle
While forecasting that no coal would be found in Buix, I
announced that if digging were carried out to a depth of 800
metres, there would be found a layer of salt measuring 80 cms.
in thickness. It was found precisely at the depth indicated and
having the thickness mentioned.
B, Sulphate of Magnesium
BirmcnstorJ (Switzerland)
In 1916 the Administrative Council of the Society of Mineral
Waters consulted me with a view to the possibility of increas­
ing the output of their magnesium water.
My examination was negative to the great disappointment
of the council.
M Schmidt, a distinguished geologist, who had himself
prospected in this region for a long time came especially to
see a dowser at work. Disappointed by my forecast, doubtless
contrary to his own, he said to m e: ‘ You are telling me what
we have not got. It isn’t that we are asking you. Tell us what
we have got.’
I pointed out to him that their beds of gypsum were ex-
94
hausted or very nearly, and there were only a few metres left
in a certain place. This prompted him to tell me that I had
done more in twenty minutes than he as a geologist would
have done in a week. Subsequently he requested me to make a
special study of salt beds in the district of Schafhausen
(Switzerland).
When I tried to find out the depth of a salt bed the eminent
geologist stopped me and said: ‘ Don’t worry about the depth.
As a geologist I know at what depth salt is to be found. What
I do not know is whether there is any salt or not, and that only
you can tell us.’
C. Iron
Orientation
One day, in the neighbourhood of Vercel (Doubs), accom­
panied by M Robbe, the then mayor of Pontarlier, we lost
our way in a wood at night. As we were trying to think how
we could get out of it my companion asked me if I could
detect iron at a distance. I replied that I could. ‘ W ell,’ he
said, ‘we left our car just outside the wood. It is up to you
to trace it.’ A few minutes afterwards, we were literally out
of the wood and we duly found our car. This is a case of tele-
prospection (distant detection). There are a great number of
cases in which searching for iron has a practical application,
even without the aid of teleprospcction.
If you have lost your way anywhere at night or in a fog and
you want to find a railway station, knowing only that it is for
example in the direction of the north, you should proceed as
follows. Take your pocket knife or bunch of keys and hold
your watch over it. The direction of oscillation of the watch
will be towards the south as we know that iron radiates south­
wards. By discovering the south, the north can be found and
get you out of your trouble.
Shell Splinter
On a certain occasion I was dining with a colleague who told
me that he had a young parishioner who suffered badly from
METALLOIDS, METALS AND OTHER BODIES
9 S
kidney trouble and the doctor was at a loss to account for it.
As this young man had fought in the war, 1decided to go and
see him right away. The pendulum held over the region of the
kidneys indicated the presence of iron at a depth of 2 2 milli­
metres. It was a shell splinter which caused all the trouble. It
was duly removed with the result that the young man was
cured.
Saiat-Prex
In this charming village on the Lake of Geneva, where I was
parish priest for eleven years, the Life-boat Institution of the
locality was visited by their colleagues from Nyon, nearby.
On debarkation, they cast the anchor, which was brand new,
but the rope from the boat snapped and the anchor sank into
the lake. All efforts to find it proved to be useless until some­
one had the idea of consulting the priest-dowser. I duly went
to the bank of the lake and announced that the anchor was at
a distance of 14 metres and a depth of 8 metres. The life-
boatmen did not have to wait long before the anchor was
recovered and firmly fixed.
D. Coal
Collonges (Switzerland)
Switzerland, which is dependent upon other countries for so
many things, could only obtain coal during the war with
great difficulty.
The world-famous chocolate manufacturers, Suchard & Co.,
not wanting to stop wr
orking owing to lack of fuel, decided to
organise their own search for a source of coal.
I was consulted by their chief engineer M Samuel de Perrot
to whom I pointed out that Switzerland was rich in poor
mines. But as he insisted I went with him to the Valais region
to study the possibilities of extracting coal.
Going across the mountain, to a place known as Plateau du
Plex, facing the Dents du Midi, I detected a pocket of anthra­
cite at a depth of 280 metres, the only one, in my opinion,
existing in the Valais region,
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
96
A surveyor who accompanied us made a careful survey of
the site so as to know where operations should be started if
necessary through a horizontal gallery.
Before undertaking such operations the advice of official
geologists was sought. The five leading geologists in Switzer­
land were consulted. Their advice was unanimously negative.
Their final comment was that if Abbe Mermet knew the ele­
mentary principles of geology he would not go searching for
coal in such a region. To this, I retorted that from a geological
point of view it was possible that there could be no coal there
but personally I knew that there was.
Confronted with such a categorical statement and the great
need of coal, Suchard took the dowser’s word for it. Opera­
tions were started along a gallery through granite at the rate
of 18-20 cms. a day to a depth of 82 metres, finally reaching
the pocket of anthracite which proved to be of excellent
quality.
This gallery is now known as the ‘Mermet Gallery’ .
In a letter, dated 8th October 1921, M de Perrot wrote
as follows:
In 1918, Abbe Mermet prospected in the Plateau de Plex
on the surface of the site of the mine by following more
especially the track of what, according to him, was a
seam accompanied by pockets. Those indications were
carefully noted by an official surveyor, M Juillerat,
before any underground work was started.
A cross-bed in a N .W . direction was reached after the
_ layer of anthracite had been followed up through a
gallery in the direction of Plex.
The concordance of the results thus obtained was
striking.
The first large deposit encountered was that of the so-
called great land-slip, detected vertically by Abb6 Mermet
at a height of more than 200 metres; the second deposit
was followed up through a chimney at a gradient of 80
METALLOIDS, METALS AND OTHER BODIES
97
G
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RA D 1ESTHESIA
degrees to the ‘Mermet Gallery’, at about j2 metres
above: all corresponding exactly to the prospecting indi­
cations on the surface as forecast by Abbe Mermet. Since
then, we have often availed ourselves of his services
whenever we were in difficulties about the best way of
proceeding in our operations, and each time Abbe Mermet
has helped us to overcome them.
(Signed) Samuel de Perrot, Chief Engineer.
Chandoline (Gione-en- Valais)
The mines at Chandoline, Grone-en-Valais, have bene­
fited by the intervention of the dowser-priest and if the
consortium of nearby Dorenaz had followed his advice
they would not have thrown their capital away into the
fog of the Rhone valley. (Local report)
Buix (near Delle)
I could say as nmch about the operations at Buix, near Delle,
where I announced beforehand in writing to M Jules-Fattet
(Saint-Ursanne), to the great annoyance of certain officials,
that no coal could be found, even at a depth of 2,000 metres.
Digging operations were carried out to a depth of 1,200 metres
but nothing was found, and yet the existence of a coal bed had
been announced at a depth of about 300 metres.
Le Luc ( For)
Accompanied by a few prospectors one day I was passing near
this locality when I saw a derrick placed near the road.
Intrigued by this, I approached the chief operator and
questioned him as to what he was searching for. ‘Coal,’ he
replied. ‘ And are you sure of finding some?’ I asked. ‘Yes,’
he answered, ‘according to our information at a depth of
300 metres.’ ‘And who told you that?’ I remarked. ‘ A leading
geologist in Marseilles’ he said.
At the request of my companions wr
e turned back and called
upon the local notary giving him a written declaration stating
that, in my opinion, no coal would be found on that site at
98
any depth, owing to the site of operations being 300 metres
too far west.
Digging was continued, and when a year later, while passing
there again, I enquired about it, I was informed that the
scaffolding had been removed after digging had continued to a
depth of 1,288 metres without a trace of coal having been
found.
But when we wanted to inform those concerned in the
enterprise about my written statement given to the notary we
were not allowed to see them. Doubtless a strange coincidence.
E. Other Bodies
W e may say that up till now there is no hidden body that we
cannot confidently expect the possibility of detecting.
A written note, for example, though giving a weak radia­
tion, can be hidden among the pages of a book. A natural
bodily defect in a person may assist a great deal in the search
for someone who is missing. In this connection, I could give
many instructive examples.
The following two cases taken at random will suffice.
Liege (Belgium)
After 1 had given a lecture on the pendulum, a doctor asked
me to make an experiment in his presence. ‘Here’ , he said,
‘is a little girl who has swallowed a button from her skirt,
and her mother, who is very anxious, would very much like
to know if the button is still in her child’s body. Could you
tell me that?’ asked the doctor. ‘Yes,’ I replied, ‘but only on
one condition and that is provided there is another similar
button whose radiation I can detect, for not being used to
searching for such buttons, I do not know their figure of
radiation,’ I was given the other necessary button. I indicated
where the button was in the little girl’s body and a few days
later I received the following note :
The little girl has been X-rayed and the place you indi­
cated was quite correct.
(Signed) De Croste, 92 rue de Gilles, Li&ge.
METALLOIDS, METALS AND OTHER BODIES
99
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Pontarlier (Daubs)
A mother knowing I was passing there came to see me with
her boy, aged 14. She told me he was coughing day and night
and the doctors could find nothing in the lungs or in the
bronchial tubes. They could not make out why he kept on
coughing. After having used the pendulum on the boy I told
his mother that he must have swallowed something made of
copper. I felt the presence of copper at the apex of the left
lung. He was X-rayed and indeed the presence of a foreign
body was proved. A surgical operation was performed and, at
the place indicated, a copper button from his college uniform
was found.
(Reported by L. Pichery, 55 rue des Sarrons, Pontarlier)
1 0 0
IX GOLD
I . CHARACTERISTICS OF RADIESTHETIC FIELD
G
OLD is, of all bodies, the most difficult to locate owing
to the multiplicity of images surrounding it.
The first anomaly is due to the fact that its fundamental ray
has a variable direction. As a rule, it is directed westwards
but sometimes, a moment later, it is found in another direc­
tion. Thus, on a certain morning, I found the fundamental ray
in the following directions:
9.30 a.m. direction north, 10.0 a.m. direction west,
10.30 a.m. direction east. Its inclination is below the hori­
zontal plane.
Figure: 1 1 .
Direction of rotation: Clockwise.
Spirals: 3, 3, 3, 2, (Axis in the form of a hook warped
towards the west.)
2 . TABLE GIVING LENGTHS OF FUNDAM ENTAL RAY
AS FUNCTION OF W EIGHT
of gold 10 grams Wave-length o*6o m.
f t 2o >
1 I I 0‘8o m.
t t 30 f t I I 1 m.
1) SS i « t t 1*20 m.
J» 6r i t I I 1*40 m.
I t 80 11 I I 1*70 m.
>
» t t ♦1 2 m
.
I t ' I S t t ft 2*8o m
.
f t 2 S O t t I I 3*10 m.
t t 260 a I I 3*30 m.
These figures are given only by way of indication for they
are not constant.
3 . MAGNETIC IMAGES OF GOLD
A reef of gold, like a stream of water, is surrounded by mag­
netic lines which must be traversed to reach it. While for
water there are 7 lines, for gold there are 1 1 , and the median
101
line (6) and the last (u ) are the most marked. (See Figs. i^andi6)
A mass of gold is surrounded by spherical magnetic surfaces;
a reef of gold by cylindrical magnetic surfaces. They are dis­
played in groups of 11 -which in stormy weather can be re­
peated indefinitely.
These forces are much more intense below the body
(towards the earth) than above it. Likewise, they are more
marked in the directions north, east and west.
If one is not careful, one will only feel the points of inter­
section of the circles in the four main directions, giving the
cross of gold.
These images are different from the ordinary radiesthetic
image which is a single reflection of the body.
The greater the height and the power of the sun, or the
more the atmosphere is charged with electricity, the more
intense these deceptive images are. One must try working
when they neutralise one another, at night, or after rain, or
even at the moment w hen they all ascend in a vertical column
just above the real mass of gold, like an umbrella that is being
closed.
From a practical point of view this is what happens. The
prospection is made on a site under which the pendulum indi­
cates a reef of gold. But w here is it exactly and where is one
to start digging? What are the observations that an operator
can make ? It is possible that at the time when he operates all
the magnetic images are turned out, displayed and reflected.
The pendulum will then be influenced by the deceptive images
and will remain motionless above the real reef of gold. A
moment later, as if the magnetic state of the atmosphere or
the ether were transformed suddenly, the pendulum will
become active above the real reef of gold and inactive over
the images at the very points where, a little earlier, it was
rotating.
The impression is that the images, at first displayed, have
suddenly ascended in a vertical direction above the reef of
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
102
GOLD
A comparison may be helpful. Let us consider the reflection
of the moon on the sea at night. If the sea is calm, it is a long
straight line leading one’s attention towards its point of origin.
If, on the other hand, there is a tempest and the waves follow
one another like enormous furrows interfering with the re­
flecting surface, one can no longer see a straight line but a
Fig u r e i $■ T h e C ross oe G o ld ( i )
Vertical Section showing that magnetic surfaces (only three are shown
here instead of the usual eleven) are more strongly manifested below the
horizontal plane and in the vertical East-West plane.
confused zone, glittering, where reflection appears and dis­
appears far away from the direction of the moon causing it.
Therefore, one must never work as long as the magnetic per­
turbation lasts.
The alternation of these two states (display or vertical
column) occurs with disconcerting frequency. But the favour­
able times during the day are as follows: from £ to 7 a.m.,
103
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
from 11 a.m. to i p .m ., from £ to 7 p.m. That is to say at the
periods when the sun passes approximately in the direction of
east, south and west.
N
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
S
Figu re 16. T he Cross of G old (2)
Projection on horizontal plane of ground. A gold
coin is surrounded by 44 (4 x 11) magnetic images
which appear in the directions of the four cardinal
points, where the horizontal plane of the ground
intersects the eleven magnetic spheres.
How are we to proceed in order to distinguish the magnetic
images from the real reef? If, at the time of the prospection,
these images are displayed, all the points where the pendulum
gives the serial number 11 should be marked by means of
stakes fixed in the ground. Thus we shall find the points of
104
GO L D
intersection of the arms of the cross of gold and consequently
the place of the real reef.
But as one is often forced to work at unfavourable hours
which may have good moments even as favourable hours may
have bad ones, the most reliable and least complicated way of
proceeding is as follows: One should carry on one’s own
person any object of gold such as a ring or a coin. A t the
moment when the observation is due, one should check up
on a witness (another ring or coin) on the state of the magnetic
field, vertical column or dispersed images, direction of funda­
mental ray, etc., and wait until the conditions are favourable
before proceeding further.
I was fortunate enough to discover this method recently
which I strongly recommend to my dowsing colleagues.
What has been said above for prospecting on location is
equally applicable to the study of a map or plan.
4 , DEMONSTRATIONS
I could give details of hundreds of experiments which I was
called upon to make by way of practical demonstration but I
will confine myself to a few examples.
At Chamoson (Valais —Switzerland) M Burin, President of
the Local Council, in the presence of his colleagues and two
engineers, in the course of an excursion, and by way of having
some fun at my expense, tried to lead me into a trap by show­
ing me a watch chain, supposed to be made of pure gold,
which I discovered to be ordinary gilt metal.
On the same occasion I told one of the engineers that he
was holding 200 francs in gold in his right hand, which was
absolutely correct.
At Courgenay (Jura —Switzerland) I discovered a gold coin
hidden in one of the shoes of a servant girl. Needless to say
that the coin accompanied the foot that was hiding it.
At Lausanne (Switzerland), in a class-room, I detected a
sum of gold which had been given to a pupil for the purpose
of the experiment. Perhaps some psychiatrist will account for
105
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
it all by attributing it to transmission of thought. But this is
no explanation at all for I could mention many cases where the
person concerned was completely unaware of the presence of
gold at the particular place. Here follow two examples, taken
at random.
At Neuchatel (Switzerland) I reminded one of my brother
priests, by indicating the place where it was hidden, that a
sum of £oo francs in gold had been entrusted to him in 19 14
at the outbreak of the war, which he had completely forgotten.
But the following case is even more significant. At Sedeilles
(Vaud - Switzerland) while prospecting for water for the
locality and not finding any, I told the President of the Council
that, here, it would be easier to find gold than water. There
were two harvesters working nearby, and one of them seemed
to me to be carrying gold on his body. W e went to have a
word with them and as I told this man that he had gold on
him, he answered with a mocking air: ‘I don’t know where
this gold could be with the clothes I’ve got on.’ He was
stripped to the waist and was only wearing a pair of trousers.
I insisted but he firmly denied that he had any gold on him
and finallyhe said: ‘Well, then, ifyou know where Ihave this
gold, take it.’ I immediately put my hand on the belt of his
trousers. ‘What about this,’ I remarked, ‘isn’t that gold?’
I had reminded him suddenly of an event in his life which
he had completely forgotten. When he was mobilised in
August 1914, his mother had sewn a gold coin in the belt of
his trousers, as a last resource in case of need. But, as he was
never short of money, on his return from the war he had
entirely forgotten all about that gold coin.
The long arm of coincidence would have to be stretched
very far indeed to account for this incident as being a case of
‘transmission of thought’.
At a meeting of colleagues at Cressier on 14 May 1934, my
successor as parish priest at Landeron (Neuchatel —Switzer­
land), Mr Ferraris, threw his pocket book on a settee, saying
to me, ‘ Can you tell me what there is in it?’ ‘Well,’ I replied,
GOLD
‘it is rather surprising for, as a rule, one only puts paper
money in a pocket-book but you put gold coin in it.’ ‘ How
much?’ he asked. ‘I reckon 400 francs’ , I said. There followed
a rush towards the pocket book where twenty gold coins
(400 francs) were found, each one being carefully wrapped up
in a piece of paper to prevent the jingling noise made by such
coins.
107
Part Two: Radiesthesia on Site
X PRACTICAL PROSPECTION FOR WATER
AND INANIMATE BODIES
I
N the case of water, the normal procedure is as follows: A
landowner writes to a dowser asking him to come and find
some water for him. On the dowser’s arrival, he is taken to
the site to he explored. He then has the choice of the following
four methods, which he can use separately, or check one
method by another.
I . FIRST METHOD: LINES OF FORCE
W e stated before that a stream of water is surrounded on each
side by 7 parallel lines of force, but the average dowser will
only feel the seventh line, which I call the great parallel,
scarcely the fourth or median line, and the other lutes not at all.
Ifthere is any water on the site explored, the dowser, while
surveying it, pendulum in hand, will come across the zone of
its lines of force. He is then able to detect the great parallel
by the indication that, on one side, there are further lines of
force, wdiile on the other side there are none, and the pendu­
lum remains motionless. It is the neutral zone.
(See Fig. 17.) The dowser takes his stand at a point in
the neutral zone, for example at A, and from there goes
towards the great parallel which he reaches at A 1. The pendu­
lum then oscillates less markedly than over actual water but
gives the direction of the great parallel, which is also that of
the stream. The dowser proceeds to advance at right angles to
this direction, that is to say towards the stream, and thus goes
across the second zone as far as the point £. He then crosses
the median line which he detects at once owing to the fact
that the pendulum begins to oscillate towards the water, that
108
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
N eutral
ground,
pendulum.
motionless
Figu re 17. T he Detection of W ater
gradually becoming little circles, increasing in amplitude to
ellipses and ending in straight oscillations, parallel to the
stream. He is thenjust above it. If he goes beyond it, he will
find, on the other side, the same series in reverse.
Observation
At certain times during stormy weather, the atmosphere is
charged with electricity and the group of lines of force may
109
is to say, at right angles to its direction. The first zone is the
area between the median line and real water.
The dowser continues to advance at right angles to the
stream from B towards C (real water), the pendulum at first
giving oscillations at rightangles to the direction ofthe stream,
N eutral
Ground
be repeated as many as seven times, sometimes covering a
considerable distance. Then it is futile to go on using the pen­
dulum and one must wait for the formation of the vertical
column in the case of a mineral spring; or, in the case of a
stream, one must wait for the manifestation of the vertical
plane of radiation, which follows the line of the stream, and
absorbs the additional series of deceptive parallel lines. And
one must bear in mind the favourable hours mentioned
earlier on.
2 . HOW TO DISTINGUISH MAGNETIC IMAGES
FROM REAL OBJECTS
When one has no time to wait until the magnetic images,
lines of force, and other deceptive reflections rise up in a
vertical column or plane, it is possible, while realising that
it is very difficult to obtain satisfactory results, to employ the
following means;
A. Sticking a nail into or putting a key on the ground at
the place where one feels the presence of water. If water is
really present the pendulum will stop moving; if it is a mag­
netic image, it will continue its movements. It seems that
iron absorbs the radiations of water.
B. Holding a pointed steel object in the left hand; same
effect.
C. Holding one’s breath; if the pendulum stops moving, it
is a magnetic image; if it continues moving, the object is real.
D. Here is a means which, for myself, is infallible. Raise
the arm holding the pendulum and let it go down as if
probing the air with the pendulum. If it is a magnetic image,
one meets with no resistance until ground level. If one is
really standing above water, the pendulum, at a certain level
in the air, seems to meet with some resistance in its downward
path at a point where it gives the figure of water. Other means
have been given by radiesthetists, notably by our eminent
colleague Dr Regnault of Toulon, in the Cote d ’Azur Medicale,
November 1933.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
3. SECOND METHOD: THE LUMINOUS RAY
W e have already stated that a radicsthetic ray always links up
the sun with any given body, and when reaching that body or
sometimes the magnetic surface surrounding it, this incident
ray is reflected making a certain angle, and the reflected ray
is short and soon disappears.
Between the sun and the body, this ray is merged with the
luminous ray when the latter has met with no obstacle. How
can we make use of the solar ray in order to detect water?
Given the position of the sun and the particular area of the
ground to be explored, one passes between the two of them.1
At the moment when the solar ray is intercepted, the pen­
dulum gives the figure of water. One follows the direction of
this ray towards the water to the point where it is reflected,
making a sharp angle. Normally, one should be standing just
above the water. Sometimes, owing to a variable protective
zone, one finds oneself beside it. The distance varies con­
stantly.
By means of a witness (a coin held in the left hand) the
extent of the deviation can be judged, and the correction
made accordingly, 01 else one may wait until the reflection
takes place just above the body.
It must be borne in mind that the solar ray may lead one
to a magnetic image.
4 . THIRD M ETHOD: THE MENTAL RAY
The mental ray is that which connects the object with the
dowser’s brain. And once standing on the site there is no
need to go all over it for the mental ray will reach the operator
wherever he is.
Direction. The dowser, holding the pendulum in his hand,
surveys the horizon, that is to say turns his body slowly round,
with the left arm outstretched. At the moment when this arm,
1It is therefore useful to wait until the solar ray is declining towards the horizontal
plane, that is to say when the sun is low on the horizon.
I I 1
serving as an antenna, comes across the mental ray, the pen­
dulum oscillates and gives the figure of water, 7. This direction
is noted for it indicates in what direction water will be found.
A dowser endowed with a high sensibility may be able to
determine the direction without using the hand or a stick as
an antenna, and if he does so it is only to ascertain the direction
more accurately.
The process of surveying the horizon is carried out at first
by limiting one’s attention to a short distance —say $o metres,
and then increasing it gradually. This survey enables us to
detect the presence and the nature of any given body, but
distance and depth remain to be determined.
Distance. The eyes are capable of accommodation at various
distances. If one examines an old manuscript very closely, or
looks at a house at an ordinary distance, or at a mountain peak
at a great distance, the mechanism of the eye adapts itself
accordingly, giving clear vision in each case.
Every photographic apparatus has a regulating system enab­
ling it to adjust itself to a distance varying between about 2
metres and infinity. Modem instruments used in geodesy are
so designed that they give at the same time the direction of a
certain point, its altitude and its distance. Thus, a given degree
of accommodation of the instrument corresponds to a certain
distance, and vice versa.
In short, everything takes place as if the dowser’s brain were
an instrument brought to a fine pitch of perfection. Having
been trained and regulated by former experiments over known
distances, it is capable of finding directly, by means of the
mental ray, the distance of the body emitting it, the ‘exact
focus’ being indicated by the movements of the pendulum.
£ . FOURTH METHOD: DIRECTED OSCILLATIONS,
OR INTERSECTION METHOD
Let us imagine a dowser standing in a field in search of water.
Without extending his arm or turning his body round, he asks
himself the question: In which direction is water to be found?
11 2
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
The pendulum oscillates where water is to be found. This
should be noted, as well as the features of the landscape such
as trees and rocks which will be helpful in finding the direction
again. The prospection with the pendulum is repeated from
another angle of approach and the second direction obtained
will intersect the first at a point under which the water will
be found.
6 . DETECTION OF DISTANCE
Let us take the case of spring I emerging at ground level.
(See Fig. 18). The dowser, standing at point S, and already
knowing the direction by the mental ray IS, follows this ray
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
mentally without moving, while adjusting his own receptivity
to s, io, i£, 20, 2$, etc. metres. When he reaches the exact
distance, the pendulum begins to move. This accommodation
is carried out more or less consciously, and through habit
becomes like a reflex.
113
H
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
7 . DETECTION OF DISTANCE AND DEPTH
A dowser standing at point S is searching for a subterranean
stream of water passing at point 0 at a depth of 50 metres. The
point 7, situated on ground level vertically above 0 , is at a
distance of jo metres from S . W e thus have to deal with
a triangle SO I, and we have the choice of two methods.
(Fig. 18.)
1 . Direct measurement of the length SO .
The ray O S enables the dowser to estimate the distance by
accommodation, that is to say by adjusting his own receptivity
to 5, 10, i£, 20, 2£, etc. metres. Then he measures the angle
of inclination made by the ray O S with the horizontal plane.
Thus he is in a position to calculate the depth 1 0 and the
distance SI.
2. Measuring successively the horizontal distance S I and the
vertical depth 10 by the process of accommodation indicated
above.
But, it may be objected, one is no longer guided by the
mental ray O S. This seems to be true, but a comparison will
enable us to understand that we are really guided by this
mental ray. Let us suppose that a well has been bored along
the line 10 and that, at the bottom of the well at 0, there is a
lamp burning, and at the top of the well at / a ball of polished
metal has been placed. A luminous ray emanating from 0 ,
reflected on the ball 7, reaches the observer at S . The sphere 7
which naturally reflects light in all directions plays the role of
a secondary centre of emission, and the broken ray 01S is a
ray reaching the observer after being reflected at 7.
Everything takes place as if radiesthetic rays emanating from
water acted like luminous rays with the difference that it is
not necessary to bore a well for them since they are not im­
peded by any obstacle, nor is it necessary to place a metallic
ball at I.
Thus the dowser standing at S can first measure the distance
n 4
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
SI by his ordinary process of distant prospection, or on loca­
tion, and then the depth 1 0 . This method is preferable to the
first one. It determines the point I which is in a vertical
direction above 0 , thus enabling one to know who the spring
belongs to.
To bring water to the surface, it is usual to make a vertical
well and borehole with tools specially made for this purpose.
There is then less risk of losing the direction, and it is the
shortest and therefore most economical way.
8 . RAPID METHOD (APPROXIMATE) FOR DETECTING DEPTH
It would seem that in the air, above the ground and at a height
corresponding with the average human stature, magnetic sur­
faces are formed, zones corresponding to subterranean zones,
but on a significantly reduced scale.
If one is searching for water, for example, one begins
with the hand holding the pendulum as high as possible and
gradually lowers it. At the moment when the pendulum
goes through the zone corresponding to the subterranean zone
where water actually is, one feels a very slight resistance, and
the pendulum, up till then motionless, begins to give the serial
number of water.
Thus with a pendulum held with ann fully extended and
raised vertically, there is a corresponding zone of water on
the surface or very near it.
When the pendulum is held:
at the level of the eyes water is found at 40-^0 metres
>1 *> »> waist ,, ,, ,, 100 ,,
11 ,, knees ,, ,, ,, 250 ,,
,, ,, ,, ankles ,, ,, ,, 300-400 ,,
Therefore, everything takes place as if the pendulum,
lowered slowly, were going through magnetic layers.
9. PLUMB-LINE METHOD FOR DETECTING DEPTH
The position of an isolated body having been marked (reef of
gold, spring) or of a continuous body (stream of water), the
operator stands exactly above it at point A in order to deter­
mine its depth.
At a point, A, he places a stake to which a metallic wire is
fixed. Then the wire is drawn along the ground and held above
it by means of wooden supports. It may be stretched in any
direction, in the case of an isolated body, or in a perpendicular
direction in the case of a vein, seam or stream. Then, holding
in the hand a few pieces of various bodies which may be
encountered above the point A (water, limestone, clay, marl,
etc.) the operator, with the pendulum, explores all along the
length of the wire. The distance from the point A, taken on
the wire, where the pendulum indicates water, corresponds
to the depth of its location.
Everything takes place as if the wire had been driven into
the ground vertically at the point A and then withdrawn, show­
ing indications of the different layers ‘penetrated’ whose
presence underground could be ascertained at the exact depth
of location in each case. The pendulum does not reveal the
presence of material elements in this case but only radies-
thetic vibrations.
IO . ESTIMATING OUTPUT
The first indication is given (for the same operator, as per­
sonal sensibility must be taken into account) by the amplitude
of oscillations and the speed of the movements of the pendulum,
This seems to receive at each oscillation a new impulse, and its
movements are maintained with a variable force in each case.
Example: spring water, weak: 20 oscillations in 10 seconds.
Stronger spring: 24 oscillations in 10 seconds.
It is now a question of obtaining more precise knowledge.
To achieve that end the operator has, beforehand, adjusted
his instrument, that is to say his organism. By practising on
certain springs whose output is known, the operator has
established a kind of ready-reckoner indicating that a certain
amplitude and speed of oscillations correspond to a certain
output,
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
116
No formula here can take the place of personal study for the
result depends on an individual coefficient of sensibility.
I I . DETECTING DIRECTION OF FLOW
A pendulum, activated by an impulse, makes symmetrical
oscillations, or very nearly. But the oscillations made by the
dowser’s pendulum are not symmetrical. By carefully observ­
ing its movements one can see that the pendulum swings more
in one direction than in the other, as if the series of impulses
activating it were constantly pushing it in the same direction.
An analogy might be helpful. When a child sits in a swing set
in motion by his mother, a push is given only once for each
swing; it is intermittent, and the swing rises higher in the
direction of the forward impulse than when it returns. Simi­
larly, with a pendulum. Above a stream of water AB, flowing
from A to B, the pendulum is drawn more towards B as if the
impulse were coming from A to B. It oscillates in the direction
of the current. If one tries to make it work in the reverse
direction, it stops.
Thus, if the stream is horizontal and flows from A to B, the
pendulum oscillates towards B.
In order to determine with the pendulum the direction of
a subterranean stream whose orientation is already known, the
operator proceeds as follows. Turning in a downstream direc­
tion, the pendulum oscillates vigorously, and turning upstream,
in the opposite direction, the pendulum remains motionless.
It behaves in a way exactly opposite to that of the rod under
the same conditions.
It is in such a case that the rod may prove useful provided
the operator stands above the stream and not far away. If he
goes in an upstream direction, the rod rises violently, and if
he turns in a downstream direction, the rod dips feebly and
stops.
If the stream is ascending, the pendulum seems to follow' the
upward movement of the water by describing an ascending
solenoid, with anti-clockwise rotation.
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
If the stream flows downwards, the pendulum describes a
descending solenoid with clockwise rotation.
1 2 . DETECTING PRESSURE
If a bottle, filled with some lake water, is scaled with a cork,
and another bottle filled with gaseous water and also corked,
it is clear that the reaction of the two corks will not be the
same in both cases. One is ‘at rest’ while the other is in
a state of compression. In a state of equilibrium, a force is
neutralised by an antagonistic force. If we could measure the
state of compression of the cork, we should know the force
of pressure of the gas.
When asubterraneanstream is under pressure, it means that
while receiving various amounts of water through communi­
cating channels forcing it to take an upward course, it is pre­
vented from doing so owing to the impermeable ceilingofclay
or rock situated above it. This obstacle, like the cork in a
bottle, maintains an internal pressure compressing it, and
sometimes giving rise to an explosion.
The pendulumindicates this abnormal state, under the form
of a column of force rising vertically above the water below
and ascending up to the level where the water will rise after
boring operations have made an outlet for it.
When, with the pendulum, the operator is searching for the
depth of the water, he will first come across the top of this
column, over which the pendulum gives the numerical figure
of water but the lightness characteristic of gases.
By following the downward course of this column, the
ceiling of the underground stream of water is detected. Thus
one knows beforehand both the actual level and the future
level ofthew
r
ater, whichare confirmedafter boringoperations
have been carried out.
I 3 . TEMPERATURE OF WATER
In order to know the degree of temperature of subterranean
water, the operator, going through the scale of temperatures
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
which he has established in the course of his former observa­
tions, places his instrument successively over a series of points
on the scale indicating degrees. When the exact degree is
reached, the pendulum starts moving.
14 . W ORKING FROM THE DEPTHS TOWARDS THE SURFACE
Asubterranean stream, at a certain depth and of considerable
output, may be compared to a great channel from which
canalisation branches off to houses intowns. Or a subterranean
stream coming from the Alps gives off in its course a certain
number ofstreamlets which, owing to geological underground
faults, branch out in arborescences directed towards the sur­
face. Thus either one can search, starting from ground level
for the extremities of these branches, but the radiesthetic and
material obstacle to this procedure lies in layers of marl or
clay which affect the movements of the pendulum, making it
unreliable; or one can detect directly the depth of the main
water bed and follow its branches and rivulets to the most
favourablepoint. Bydoingso, one canavoidmaking misleading
errors.
I £ . GENERAL APPLICATION OF METHODS
It is advisable to repeat here that all the determinations -
nature and direction, distance and depth, output, direction of
stream, pressure, temperature—
can be carried out by the
method of the mental ray, without moving from the place of
detection. One may be standing or sitting, on ground level or
in a motor car, aeroplane, etc. But it is clear that after this
preliminary work, which saves a great deal of time, it is ad­
visable to go oneself and stand above the water stream to
verify and check all the indications given.
It should be noted that what has just been said about water
is an absolutely general method which is applicable to all
other bodies.
16 . WITNESS METHOD
In the course of these prospections, the pendulum has given,
119
WATER AND INANIMATE BODIES
both in the case of the solar ray and the fundamental ray, the
characteristic series of the body under study.
By way of control we can use the witness method consisting
of holding in the right hand a fragment of the body searched
for. The radiations harmonise. By taking certain precautions,
for the fundamental ray remains dominant, the pendulum will
move only if the body searched for is identical with that held
in the hand.
The witness method is particularly useful for qualitative
analysis, for example to find out whether subterranean coal is
of good, medium or poor quality.
17 . CONCLUSION
Owing to the accuracy of these results, it is obvious that there
is every reason why dowsers and geologists should try to
understand one anothers’ methods instead of putting up barriers
of opposition.
A dowser who is also a geologist, and a geologist who is
also a dowser, could make use of both branches of know ledge.
Failing that, there should be collaboration. As forces, laws,
instruments and personal gifts differ very greatly, it would
seem desirable that both geologists and dowsers should work
together on the same site in order to obtain the same usefiil
results.
Just as an astronomer needs a telescope to see beyond the
range of his vision, so a geologist could utilise the pendulum
with advantage which, after all, gives indications that are as
clear as if they enabled one to see underground.
This simple instrument offers to geology certain possibilities
of progress of incalculable significance. It would be a pity to
ignore it.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
12 o
XI CAUSES OF ERRORS
I. ERRORS DUE TO THE PENDULUM
1. A pendulum which is too heavy reacts feebly to weak
waves.
2 . A pendulum which is too light reacts too rapidly and
goes beyond the ends of series. For example, over silver, instead
of the figure 6, it will give 12, 1 8, 24 or an unlimited series.
3 . A coloured pendulum may prove to be a hindrance in
searching for certain bodies.
2 . ERRORS DUE TO THE HUMAN ORGANISM
4. If the ball of the right foot is not resting flat on the
ground, there is no movement of the pendulum.
^ 5 . The pendulum is not held propcrlySfeither it is grasped
too tightly or the arm is too stiff or contracted.
6. The operator may not be sufficiently sensitive. He must
improve this by practice.
7. The operator may be too sensitive. A trace of gold makes
him react as if it were a reef. A heavier pendulum should be
used.
8. Lack of natural aptitude, or training, or relaxation
results in the reactions of a pendulum being unreliable. A
number of series is obtained but not related to the objective
figure characteristic of a given body. O r the direction of rota­
tion is reversed. Hence the possibility of error if a conclusion
is arrived at. All this may be rectified by practice.
9. Radiesthetic work involves a certain degree of nervous
energy. If it is prolonged without interruptions, it causes
fatigue and exhaustion. Then one should rest, or else the
indications will be unreliable.
10 . There are also certain days, and times, when one does
not feel disposed to work. It is then useless to insist.
(TXbbi Mermet always insisted on this lack of relaxation, which he called ‘the
great fault’. Trans.
I l l
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
3. ERRORS D U E TO TH E M E N T A L STATE
11 . Auto-suggestion —One imagines, a priori, or owing to
certain information, or because of another dowser’s opinion,
that there exists a treasure in a certain place. The pendulum
will then give the figure of gold which exists only in the
operator’s imagination. One must remain calm, indifferent,
and in a passive mental state, without any preconceived ideas,
andsubmit to realitywithout tryingto distort it. Menendowed
with powers of creative imagination, false philosophers, are
the most dangerous of all. I often receive maps and plans on
which a local dowser, and sometimes a well-known one, has
written: ‘Here, at the foot of the old tower, there is a
treasure at a depth of 10 metres. I feel the presence of gold,
diamonds, etc.’ But, actually, there is nothing at all. Or,
sometimes, the magnetic image of an old gilt snuff-box kept
under a glass case. The art of dowsing consists in finding what
actually exists, and abovealt innot findingwhat does not exist.
4 . E R R O R S D U E TO BO D IES O R T H E IR R A D I ESTH ETIC FIELD S
1 2 . Identical Bodies —
If you are searching, for example, for
a lost knife, the mental ray may well lead you to an old
saucepan, which is normal for it gives off the same radiations.
This your assistants will find quite amusing.
13. Identical Figures —
Several bodies have the same numeri­
cal figure, for example, water and copper. One must avoid
confounding them.1The operator should not work only from
his room; on location, he should ascertain if therearesimilar
bodies, which may be a cause of error.
14. A body unknown to the operator may have the same
figure as that of the body searched for. He should be on the
look out particularly for natural gas, marsh gas and other
hydrocarbons, which may cause many errors.
1 The operator is referred to what we have said in this connection about the funda­
mental ray and the spirals. If the figures of certain bodies are sometimes identical,
they differ nearly always by their fundamental ray and spirals. Furthermore, one can
always resort to the ‘witness’ method.
1 2 2
1 5. When searching for missing persons, the operator must
bear in mind that some people have the same individual
numerical figure. In order to distinguish them, the operator
must find out discreetly the radiations of their clothes which
are hardly likely to be identical. Or else, he must discern
them from a general impression, impossible to describe, and
characteristic of the individual, which is felt in studying the
individual’s radiations.
16 . In the case of a child who has been missing for two years
for example, his personal numerical figure may be higher than
it was originally.
1 7. Strange as it may seem one may easily make a mistake by
counting the number of oscillations. When the pendulum
changes its movements at the end of a series, its impetus leads
it on and it draws a number of ellipses which one does not
know whether to attribute to oscillations or to rotations. One
hesitates between 6 and 7, between 11 and 12, etc. Then one
must wait before counting until the oscillations are well formed,
and several series must be counted, and an average taken.
Preferably, the second or third series should be taken.
18 . One is apt to forget that the fundamental ray of gold is
not always directed towards the west.
lg . The principal causes of these errors are magnetic images.
The radiesthetic image misleads one about the real position
of a given body.
20. The images of the cross of gold, when they are displayed,
are also misleading. One must wait until they form a vertical
column.
2 1. The lines of force parallel to streams of water or to
veins of metal, especially the great parallel, often lead one to
think that the real body is situated below them.
2 2. In estimating depth, layers of clay or marl, which scarcely
affect the pendulum, remain unobserved. Yet their thickness
must be added to the apparent depth.
2 3. Certain atmospheric conditions, such as stormy weather,
certain hours of the day, are unfavourable. The magnetic equi-
123
CAUSES OF ERRORS
librium is disturbed and unstable. The indications of the pen­
dulum are then quite unreliable.
24. W e are all familiar, in listening to the radio, with that
phenomenon known as fading. A similar phenomenon occurs
in Radiesthesia. Suddenly, the pendulum stops. If it is held
over a silver coin or a gold ring, it remains motionless. After
a variable period of time, everything returns to normal. I have
observed that while holding a pointed object towards the sun,
such as a pencil or finger, fading ceases.
If it is not noticed in time fading may cause errors. One
does not feel the presence of a body which is nevertheless
there. And if the pendulum stops in the course of a series
which remains unfinished, one may believe one has found a
different body.
S- E R R O R S D U E TO E R R O N E O U S IN T E R P R E T A T IO N
The art of dowsing is akin to the art of medicine, which, by
means of certain indications, must enable one to establish a
diagnosis. The pendulum, like the barometer, never lies. It
moves and it is up to us to know why. All the resources of
human intelligence, based on long experience, including many
successes and failures, are necessary for a correct interpreta­
tion. This calls for sound judgment, methodical procedure and
prudence.
25. Undertaking difficult researches for which one is not
qualified. Though Radiesthesia has brilliant successes to its
credit, there is no reason why one should lose one’s sense of
measure, and that other sense often wrongly called common
sense.
26. Generalising rashly after a single experiment and putting
forward premature theories on a meagre basis of observations
with the result that research work is carried out on principles
which are not exact.
27. Concluding hastily, without checking oneself, and with­
out taking the trouble of repeating an experiment at a differ­
ent time of the day.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
124
CAUSES OF ERRORS
28. Being influenced by auto-suggestion; for auto-suggestion,
and suggestion coming from outside, have a certain influence
on interpretation.
29. Hurry, negligence, distraction, inattention, chattering,
various preoccupations, nervousness, all contribute to giving
poor results.
JO. Attributing to the pendulum more than it indicates;
reaching conclusions beyond given indications; showing self-
assurance and giving precise information which neither the
movements of the pendulum nor boring operations will con­
firm. Lacking sufficient intellectual humility to say: ‘I don’t
know.’
6. ERRORS DUE TO BYSTANDERS
3 1 . Disturbing the dowser by chattering, irrelevant ques­
tions, mockery, etc.
3 2 . Giving false information; asking a poser.
3 3 . Digging away from the place indicated; removing stakes,
etc.
7 . CONCLUSION
Thus we have made it clear how extremely careful one must
be in order to avoid making such errors. In distant prospec-
tion on maps and plans, forming the subject of the next
chapter, several of these causes are eliminated.
12 *
Part Three: Teleradiesthesia
Or Distant Prospection
XII DISTANCE NO BARRIER
I . PRINCIPLES
A. Preliminary Considerations
WE are entering here into the most mysterious region of
Radicsthesia, and yet for anyone who has understood
the mental ray method for prospecting on location, distant
prospection is but a progressive extension of it, based on the
same principles and using the same means.
I said before that the radiesthetist on location has no need
to go far away from the circle of which he occupies the centre.
First he may explore over a distance of j o - i o o metres, then
at gradually increasing distances of 200, joo, 1,000 metres.
Continuing in such a manner he will reach the circle of the
visible horizon whether it is within normal distance as in a
plain, or brought nearer to view by a hill, or farther away, if
viewed from an elevated point from which the extended
horizon may be seen. For the whole visible area the mental
ray method is applicable. But what about the regions beyond
this horizon? Can the pendulum give us any information about
bodies hidden in a piece of ground that cannot be seen? To
this question only facts can give the answer, but experience -
that is to say an already considerable number of predictions
verified by digging - enables us to formulate the following
law: The pendulum gives information about what is found on
the surface and under the surface of a site ‘invisible’ to him,
provided the radiesthetist is able to see a representation of the
area beyond his view (photo, plan, map or drawing).
And here is another law which rather baffles one’s imagina­
tion: In the action produced on the radiesthetist and his
DISTANCE NO BARRIER
pendulum, by bodies, distant and invisible, but represented by a
photo, map, plan or drawing, distance is of no account;
whether such bodies are io miles away, ioo, 1,000 or 10,000
miles away, they act in the same way. None of the distances
measurable on the surface of the earth has any perceptible
effect in delaying or weakening transmission. But as regards
the vast areas beyond the earth we can say nothing yet. If one
bears in mind that light travels at a speed of 186,000 miles a
second, and that radiesthetic rays are closely akin to invisible
rays such as infra-red and ultra-violet rays, which are not im­
peded by any obstacle, it becomes much easier to understand
the whole question.
W e now have to discuss what has been discovered up till
now in the course of investigations into the subject of distant
prospection.
For the sake of clearness we will adopt the method of
question and answer, the answers all being based on success­
ful results.
Is the question of distance, as far as the earth is concerned,
immaterial? - Yes.
Is it possible to detect anything at the antipodes? - Yes.
Given a piece of a map, bearing no indication of any locality,
is it possible to detect the actual position of the piece of
ground represented on it? — Yes. In order to do so, the
radiesthetist looks on the map for two or three characteristic
radiations and searches for the direction towards the horizon
in which they may be found.
Under the same conditions, is it possible to measure dis­
tances? —Yes, but only approximately.
If the object has undergone modification since the photo,
plan, map, etc., was made (for example, if the course of a
river has been deflected, a well deepened, a town shattered by
an earthquake), does the pendulum reveal the former state or
the actual state? —The pendulum, at first, reveals the former
state, that is to say the state of the object when the photo,
plan or map was made. Then, if one’s attention is concentrated
1 2 7
on the actual state, using the photo, plan or map, as a detection
basis, the actual state is finally revealed.
For example, here is a fragment of a map representing a
river when it was flowing freely. Since then, a barrage 80
metres high has been erected, a deviation tunnel dug, and an
electrical power station put up. None of these things is indi­
cated on the map. Yet an experienced radiesthetist can trace
them by taking the map as a basis for detection.
In the case of a body in motion, such as a train, ship, aero­
plane, etc., is it possible to follow its itinerary on the map?
-Y e s .
An experiment which may be useful in time of war or for
customs officials is watching a certain road on the map. The
pendulum is held in the right hand while the left hand holds
a pencil or any other object acting as an antenna whose ex­
tremity is placed on the road under observation on the map.
The pendulum remains motionless so long as no vehicle passes
by. But when a vehicle does pass the point kept under observa­
tion, its metallic mass moves the pendulum which gives the
figure of iron (or steel). This is a form of espionage by means
of the pendulum.
In the case of a volcano, is it possible to detect the height of
a column of lava below the crater? —Yes.
B. The Study of the Radiesthetic Field at a Distance
Does one find the usual serial number characteristic of a
given body? - Yes.
Is there also the same direction of rotation? —Yes.
Is the fundamental ray present? - Yes.
Are the spirals found in the same form? —Yes.
Is the solar ray present? - Yes. But one must bear in mind
that time varies according to place. One day, while working
on a map of Brazil I was searching in vain for the solar ray in
the West while the sun at the time was in the East.
Is the mental ray present? —Yes.
How does it manifest itself to the radiesthetist? - Not
128
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
through the right foot, which may be off the ground, but by
the finger of the left hand moving on the map, by the pencil-
antenna held in the left hand, or again, in the case of experi­
enced radiesthetists, simply bv fixing the eyes on the point of
the map to be studied.
Is it possible to estimate mass? —Yes.
Does the same weight of the same metal, for example, a
gold coin, produce the same amplitude and the same speed
of oscillation irrespective of distance? — Yes.
Does the pendulum indicate the form of a distant object as
well as that of one under direct observation? — Yes.
Can one calculate the depth? —Yes.
Output? - Yes.
Pressure? - Yes.
Temperature? —Yes.
Does the regulation of the pendulum established for bodies
under direct observation apply to distant bodies also ? - Yes.
Does the radiesthetic image manifest itself? —Yes.
Images of the cross of gold? —Yes.
Are they as variable as those manifested on location? —Yes.
Are they simultaneous with those of the same body serving
as ‘sample’ in an experiment? — No.
Are images formed sometimes in a vertical column? - Yes.
Can a highly gifted and experienced radiesthetist dispense
with a map? — Yes, if he knows the site or if he is given a
verbal description of it. A map, in fact, seems to be only a
means of concentrating the radiesthetist’s attention and his
apparatus on the site under observation.
When working without a map, what intermediate agent is
there between the distant object and the radiesthetist? —
Always there is the ‘capital ray’ which the object, like a star,
emits in all directions and which is unimpeded by any obstacle
so that it reaches the radiesthetist.
But if the radiesthetist receives simultaneously and constantly
a ray from a certain number of bodies, how can he isolate the
ray from the body he is trying to detect? - By concentration
1 1 2 9
DISTANCE NO BARRIER
which leads him to selection and adaptation to a certain kind
of waves, and disadaptation to all other kinds. For instance,
in a drawing-room, where everybody talks at the same time,
it is possible to follow the conversation of a voice which one
finds interesting and ignore all other voices.
May not the explanation be ‘transmission of thought’ with
the person who made the map, drawing or photo? - No,
because one is asked to detect bodies whose presence is un­
known to the person in question, and often the findings of the
radiesthetist contradict the statements of the owner in the case
under investigation who generally finds himself compelled to
admit that he was mistaken,
2 . FIR ST STEPS IN D ISTA N T P R O SP E C T IO N
The best answer for those wr
ho deny the possibility of practical
distant prospection consists in showing them how easy it is.
Let us take the case of a beginner. How is he to proceed?
Let us start by working on a photograph. Let us take back
numbers of the well-known periodical L ’Illustration for the
years 19 2 1, 1922, 1923 and 1924, for example, as 1 can recall
the events that occurred during that period better than at any
other time. Looting at the photographs (but not the drawings
or reproductions of pictures and water colours) we shall come
across motor cars, aeroplanes, ships, bronze statues (copper),
sites where gold is extracted (Skellefrea mine in Sw eden); oil
fields in Rumania; objects made of gold, silver, copper; pro­
ducts of various excavations, Roman, Egyptian, e tc.; jewels
worn by living persons; men, women, mummies; prehistoric
bones, calcined bones and human ashes from the cataclysm of
Tokyo; tigers, and notably a magnificent footprint of a tiger
on the sand of a river; the Prince of Wales on an elephant, and
the big tiger that he had just shot; buffaloes, great apes, wolves,
countless horses, etc.
Sitting comfortably, alone if possible, without the least
hurry, the operator should place the end of his pencil-antenna
on one of the objects without any thought of orientation, and
130
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHES1A
DISTANCE NO BARRIER
watch his pendulum held in the right hand. If he is sufficiently
sensitive, he will be surprised to see how readily the pendulum
begins to oscillate, and then rotate, giving the series char­
acteristic of gold, silver, copper, water, petroleum, animals,
men and women. If he studies a certain individual, he w'ill
find his personal figure of radiations, etc. These different
numerical figures should be written down on a sheet of paper
in order to make sure that they are constant. When they prove
to be invariable, at least for the operator, he can deduce from
them with a high degree of probability, the nature of the
metal, the kind of animal, etc. It is a drawing-room game.
Let us now pass on to prospecting on a map. The procedure
should be the same as before and the photograph replaced by
a piece of the map to be studied. Of course, a large-scale map
is preferable, i : 1,000 or i : 10,000. Let us begin by noting
with a pendulum what is marked on the map. The pencil-
antenna should be placed on a point indicating a stream, a
river, a pond. The pendulum held in the right hand will give
the series of water, and the direction of oscillations will
actually be the direction of the stream of water, east-west,
north-south, etc.
If the operator knows that on the site reproduced by the
map there is some coal, a spring, a well, that is not marked,
or anything else, he should try to mark them.
Then he can start tackling the unknown. Passing slowly,
methodically, his finger of the left hand or his pencil-antenna
over the surface of the map, his mind free and detached,
without expecting any one result in preference to another, he
should give the pendulum free play like a good hunter who
lets his dog run where he likes. He should have the conviction
that the pendulum is always right. If it does not act, he should
not get impatient. Suddenly, it starts moving. At last, here is
my spring! he may exclaim. Not at all, for the pendulum may
give the serial figure of 16 which is that of gas.
If one wants to find something which really exists, the pen­
dulum must be left to the play of radiesthetic forces, objective
131
as they are, and no attempt should be made to direct it by a
mental effort which is nothing but suggestion.
It is important that one should not confound the powers of
attention, selection, adaptation, focusing, which are mani­
festations of a receptive apparatus (brain), with such subjective
factors as questions, injunctions, suggestions, which are char­
acteristics of a transmitting apparatus.
The fact that the pendulum oscillates over a map is a
trifling thing. The whole problem consists in interpreting the
real cause of its movements by eliminating the causes of errors.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
1 3 2
XIII EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
I
N confirmation of what we have just said about distant
prospection, we will now give a certain number of striking
facts, easily verified, which should be conclusive for anyone
with an unbiased mind. As evidence of demonstration nothing
is more convincing than weight of numbers, and nothing is so
irrefutable as a real and proved fact.
The fact that a certain phenomenon occurs with an almost •
daily frequency shows its possibility, and therefore the only
sensible attitude for the time being is to admit the fact and
wait until it is explained.
i . W A T E R
Within Range of Vision
(Extract from the Journal d ’Yverdon) —Abbe Mermet has
made use of his science of Radiesthesia for the benefit of
the locality of Yverdon. After patient and unsuccessful
searchings, the local council decided to consult the Abbe
to find out the cause of a fall in output of the water in
the communal reservoir which the Abbe announced was
due to an error of judgment. It was an event of great
interest for those who had the privilege of watching the
Abbe performing as a prospector.
From the highest site in the village, with a wide ex­
panse of view, Abbe Mermet, using his pendulum, indi­
cated the exact location of the three springs at Villars-
Mendraz and their respective output, and he did so at a
distance of 2 miles away. While retracing his steps, he
discovered, in the village itself, a spring with an output
of 200 litres a minute, not far from a gallery giving 20
litres a minute.
With no Plan — Viivigne (Cote d’Or)
(Extract from an article in Bien Public, Dijon. 24th Sep-
1 3 3
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
tember 1930.) The locality of Vievigne had requested
Abbe Mermet to make a tour of hydrological inspection
in the neighbourhood of the village. People knew Abbe
Mermet’s theory about the origin of water springs in the
region of Burgundy. According to him, they come from
the Alps and circulate in our region by means of subter­
ranean canals.
Here and there a geological fault, or perhaps a chimney
due to erosion, gives rise to conduits through which
water can reach the surface of the ground. Sometimes
these streams of water circulate at a depth of a few
metres and sometimes at a greater depth. Sometimes also,
on the same site, several streams are found, one above the
other, parallel with one another, ascending or descending;
when geological faults or chimneys reach ground level
then they constitute a spring. As in the case of a well
constructed irrigation scheme, the output of the spring
depends on the section of the main conduit, or on the
orifice, more or less limited by rocks, gravel, etc.
With the aid of his pendulum, Abbe Mermet discovers
these pockets, chimneys without outlet, their depth and
probable output. He seems to have before his eyes a map
of the circulation of subterranean water. Naturally, one
feels rather sceptical. I must admit that I was myself but
there is nothing more convincing than a fact, and, for
two hours, Abbe Mermet gave us full indications which
were easy to verify.
A fountain supplies the wash-house. Without having
seen it, he announced its output as being 2j litres a
minute, which is exactly the figure found in former ob­
servations. The same concordance was found in the out­
put of the fountain for the trough. At a distance of 20
metres and at a depth of 1 metre, a streamlet giving 2
litres a minute was discovered. The local people duly
confirmed this.
Standing in the middle of a vale, Abbe Mermet indi-
134
cated on the other side of the hill, consequently out of
sight, a spring with an output of about 30 litres a minute
and at a depth of 1,200 metres; and also another spring
giving ig litres a minute. These springs situated at
Sennelier and Cocquetin were immediately discovered.
Returning to the village, the Abbe examined the well,
near the church, which is supplied by a streamlet from
the east at a rate of 3 litres a minute. Again, local people
confirmed this when they had occasion to clean the well.
W e are mentioning only a few facts whose verification
was made immediately. W e are fully justified in assuming
that the other indications given by Abbe Mermet are
equally well founded. He also indicated where prospecting
should be done and where nothing would be found.
La Terraise (here)
It is remarkable that at a distance of over 1 go kilometres
your pendulum enabled us to carry out prospections which
were so accurate.
(Signed) G. Rodhain, Mining and Civil Engineer.
26th November 19 2 3 .
Through Memory of the Site - Bienne (Switzerland)
On 13th March 1926 you sent me a plan from Saint-Prex
indicating with great precision a small spring of 3 -go litres
a minute. Thank you very much. It gave great joy to our
school children.
(Signed) Loertscher.
Example of Prospectionfor Water on a Plan
Abbe Lambert became a dowser after my visit to Seilh, and
was later elected mayor of Oran owing to his dowsing ability.
(Extract from article written by Abbe Lambert, Tele­
gramme, Toulouse.) Abbe Mermet finds water and other
objects by distant prospection. As proof, I am able to cite
an experiment made at Seilh in front of witnesses, to­
gether with the signed testimonies.
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
135
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Vic-en-Bigorre
I sent a plan to Abbe Mermet asking him to indicate if
there was any water. The property, situated near a river,
has a well supplied by a stream with an insufficient output.
I mentioned that fact to Abbe Mermet who replied:
■ i. Petroleum, Metals, Coal: nil.
‘ 2. Dry well, 20 metres deep, filled up with stones.’
This was absolutely correct.
(Signed) M .I.C.
Morr.ine (Haute-Saroie)
I, the undersigned, Honorine Baud, of Morzinc, certify
that Abbe Mermet found on my property on the site
known as ‘ Au Collier’ , Pied de la Plagne, Parish of
Morzinc, a spring of drinking water with an output of
3 litres a minute, and he did that simply by studying a
plan of the property on two photographs which I had sent
him for that purpose.
(Signed) Honorine Baud. 14th August 19J0-
(This signature was duly witnessed by the mayor of Morzine.)
Popayan (Colombia, South America)
The College of French Marists at Popayan had no water. The
director wrote to me begging me to do everything I could to
find some water. ‘W e have 650 students here and we shall be
compelled to close the college owing to lack of water. Come
and save us from such a dreadful prospect.’
I replied that 1 had neither the inclination nor the time to
travel so far but I asked him to send me a plan of the property
together with a correct scale.
I duly received it, and returned it with following comments:
There are not several springs on your property but there
is one. If your plan is in accordance with the scale, you
should carry out digging operations at the exact place I
have indicated with a cross in red ink, and go down to
a depth of 28 metres. You will find the water that you
need.
136
The reply to this note ran as follow s:
I have great pleasure to inform you that the water indi­
cated at a depth o f 2 8 m etres on a plan of our property
at Popayan, which I have been searching for myself for
the last five years, has been found exactly at the depth
indicated. 1 am taking the liberty of sending you a copy
of the plan and asking you if you would be kind enough
to indicate the region where petroleum or metals may be
found as English and American surveyors have marked out
certain likely places on the site.
(Signed) Hermano Anaclet,
Rector del collegio di la lmmaculata, Tasto, Colombia.
10th August 1927.’
Frontignan (Herault) - 1 9 3 1
One day, I received a request from the Compagnie fran^aise
des Petroles ($2 rue de Londres, Paris) asking m e to come to
Frontignan as soon as possible.
This company had built a plant for refining petrol which
reached it by way of the sea, but there was no fresh water.
Boring operations around the plant had given only salt
water, Frontignan being on the sea coast.
As I was unable to absent myself at that time, I asked the
Director of the Company to send me a plan of the site. A
study of it revealed the presence of a mountain.stream with
an output of 3 0 0 litres a minute, on a layer of marl, at a depth
of about 7 0 metres.
And the forecast proved to be correct in every respect.
I said that the main stream had an output of jgo litres but
it was bifurcated and the larger of the two branches ( 4 5 0
litres) was at a greater depth (9 0 - 1 0 0 metres) and while the
smaller one ( 3 0 0 litres) gave slightly salty water owing to
the vicinity of the sea which infiltrated, the deeper branch
would give water of perfectly pure quality, free from salt,
provided a water-tight partition was put up where it emerged
at a depth of 9 0 - 1 0 0 metres.
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PR OSPECTION
137
Orleans
Thanks to Madame Jamin (30 rue Royale, Orleans), the de­
voted President of the local Radiesthetic Society, a lady
extraordinarily gifted and renowned for her healing powers, I
received the plan of a property which was in need of water.
The proprietor, M Bouchet, 106 rue Bannier, Orleans,
wanted to build a cottage where he could stay in the summer
and on Sundays. But there was no wr
ater in the neighbourhood,
not even enough to make some mortar.
I sent him his plan with the following indications:
At the precise point marked with a cross, quite near the
site of your prospective cottage, you can start digging and
at a depth of io-fo metres, you will find water with an
output of 4 litres a minute, or 240 litres an hour at the
minimum.
This should be sufficient as the flow comes from a
spring of 10 litres at a depth of 60 metres, and after the
chimney through the sand-bed is widened by the passage
of ascending water, this streamlet of 4 litres is capable
of giving as much as 10 litres a minute.
Future events proved that I was right, and once again,
prospecting on a plan was crowned with success.
Here is a letter I had the pleasure of receiving from M
Bouchet, dated 1 8th November 1933.
I want to thank you, though tardily, but with all my heart
for the result obtained in accordance with your indica­
tions on the plan.
W e duly carried out digging operations at the place
indicated by you on the plan, and at the depth you had
stated, the water came out. I can still see the sand boiling
under the rush of water. You can imagine how happy we
were for both my wife and myself take a keen interest in
Radiesthesia.
(Signed) G. Bouchet.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
138
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
Mr Bouchet also explained that since the well-sinker had
not removed enough sand, there were only two or three
buckets of muddy water; but needing water during the
summer, he started pumping again and water came out, very
nearly clear, and sufficiently abundant for watering purposes
(400 litres an hour). ‘ Never’ , he said, ‘has our garden been
in such fine condition when most wells in the neighbourhood
were dry.’
For those who always insist on facts, here is a well-established
one for them. First, completely negative results on the site
were observed, and then a positive forecast was given, at a
distance, merely by studying a plan.
Thus Teleradiesthesia prevailed once again.
Two Accounts by a Witness
A foreign member of our Association of the Friends of Radies­
thesia, feeling surprised at the doubts expressed in the official
Bulletin on the possibility of prospection on plans, sent me an
account of two recent prospections wr
hich confirm so many
others. I give them below.
First Account. Last September, a landowner at Triengen,
in the canton of Lucerne (Switzerland), Mr Hafliger
Leonce, asked me to search for water in his fields. I indi­
cated two places where I found springs. A good spring,
on the left, at a depth of 3 metres, and another spring on
the right, near a tree, coming from a mountain. I asked
the landowner not to start digging operations. I wanted
first to send a plan to Abbe Mermet at Saint-Prex, asking
for his advice. Byreturn ofpost, Ireceived ananswer inform­
ing me that there was no spring on the left but that there
was some salt at a depth of 60 metres. The spring, on
the right, near a tree, was well indicated but Abbe Mer­
met stated that the spring did not come from the moun­
tain heights but that it was ascending from below. And
Abbe Mermet was perfectly right. The facts proved it
subsequently. The landowner did not wait for an answer.
1 3 9
He gave orders for digging to be done, on the left, at a
depth of 3 metres, with the result that no water was
found.
When Abbe Mermet’s answer was made known to the
landowner, he gave orders that the bore-hole should be
closed immediately. And what about the spring on the
right? As I had told him that the water came from the
heights, the landowner had a trench made about 3 metres
deep, above the place I had indicated, but the facts con­
firmed Abbe Mermet’s forecast. The spring which actu­
ally came from below caused the lower part of the trench
to collapse while the upper part remained intact.
Second Account. A dowser, of little experience, had an­
nounced an output of 2,000 litres a minute at Sursee,
canton of Lucerne (Switzerland). Digging operations had
already begun to a depth of 9^30 metres and big pipes
had been laid down. But there was no sign of the 2,000
litres. At a depth of 3 metres there was an output of
about 3 litres a minute. As I was passing near the well I
took an interest in what was going on, and I was informed
that there was a powerful stream coming from the direc­
tion of the Railway Station. I used my pendulum to see
if the dowser’s forecast was correct. In the direction
indicated I found nothing, but, towards the north, I de­
tected a small spring with an output of 3 litres a minute.
I estimated its depth at about 4 metres. I expressed my
opinion and promised to make a plan and send it to Abbe
Mermet. Soon afterwards, the plan came back with the
remark that the small spring was at a depth of 40 metres
(and not 4 metres) and that a streamlet came from a
higher point which was giving the output of a few litres
that I had mentioned. Thus I had made a mistake about
the depth on account of a layer of clay. As for the larger
spring of 2,000 litres, Abbe Mermet agreed wilh me. It
did not exist, but the dowser insisted that it did. Further
digging was done but still there was no water. Abbe
140
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Mermet’s distant prospection was thus proved to be cor­
rect by irrefutable facts.
All credit is due to our remarkable master-prospector
who has so often proved by his method and his results of
distant prospection, extending as far as South America,
that he deserves the title of ‘King of Dowsers’ .
(Signed) Edouard Hart. (Switzerland.) l jt h December l p J J .
Buron, canton o f Lucerne.
Prospection on an Aerodrome —Asnieres (Seine) 28th June 1934
In our letter of 17th October 1933, we requested you to
be good enough to survey on location the marshy site at
Lys-Chantilly (Oise) with a view to giving us your opinion
on the possibility of draining it.
As you were unable to come to Paris, you asked us to
send you a plan or map of the site in question assuring us
that you could give us all the necessary information at a
distance with the same absolute certainty as if you came
personally on location.
W e therefore complied with your request and sent you
a simple map with a scale of 1 : 20,000. Three days later,
we received the map together with the desired infor­
mation.
You indicated three specially marked places for digging
drainage wells, giving the exact depth of the bed of sand
as well as its thickness.
Furthermore, you also accounted for one of the main
reasons why this region was being invaded by water which
was extending more and more, not only on our own site
measuring about 130 acres, but over hundreds of acres in
the vicinity.
You drew our attention, with precise indications of
their situation, to the presence of boggy patches and a
spring giving 3 litres a minute. A t that time of the year it
was impossible to check your indications, and as the whole
site was overlaid with an impenetrable vegetation con-
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
1 4 1
sisting of bramble-bushes, gorse, and aquatic plants, we
were obliged to wait until later on in order to proceed
with the burning of this jungle so as to clear the ground
for the construction of the aerodrome.
After the burning operation, we proceeded to check
your indications concerning the spring on the site.
W e were greatly surprised when, standing on the pre­
cise place marked by you as being above the spring, we
saw an old, disused pump, whose existence nobody in the
region suspected, and which to this day had been com­
pletely hidden from view by the high vegetation already
mentioned.
It would seem that the pump in question could only
have been put there, more than fifty years ago, by shep­
herds who let their sheep and cows graze in the plain
which, at that time, was fertile and normally irrigated.
W e consider it our duty to draw your attention to
these facts as we feel you will be gratified to know' that
your distant prospection gave such conclusive results.
W e must also admit that we cannot even attempt to
understand your method and science of Radiesthesia. It is
sufficient for us to have been able to achieve successful
results in order to be thoroughly convinced of the
astonishing ability you possess.
Once again, w e wish to express our thanks and our
gratitude to you and we shall make a special point of
informing those who happen to be interested in such
conclusive results as those at the great site of the aero­
drome at Lys-Chantilly.
(Signed) M. Nappez, 69 Boulevard Voltaire, Paris.
Aiton (Aiguebelle, Savoie)
The water is exactly at the place which you indicated in
front of our house, and also exactly at a depth of 4 metres.
And the same applies to the output. This will serve to
confirm the full confidence I have in your science.
(Signed) Jean Rattaire, major o f Aiton. 4th December 19 4 5.
142
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
Chaperino (Colombia, South America)
I take this opportunity, while one of our people, Dr du
Licco de la Salle, is travelling to France of returning the
plan of our site which you were good enough to examine
for us last year.
I wish to thank you for the information you gave us.
Thanks to your indications I was able to have digging
operations carried out with success and the well marked
in blue on the plan was duly sunk.
The water of this well is at a depth of 83 metres, and
it reascends to 63 metres. You had forecast a depth of
80 metres and a pressure of 60 metres, with an output of
50 litres a minute, exactly what we actually succeeded
in getting.
I congratulate you on your sensational discoveries to
which the press here has given full publicity.
(Signed) Hennano Hermenfroy,
Director delos Hermanos Christianos de Chapinero (Colombia).
A Triumphant Teleprospection by Abbe Mermet
Under the above title, the periodical La Prospection a distance
(September 1934) published a letter from the Reverend Father
Dupeyrat, a missionary of the Sacred Heart of the Mission of
Papusia, in which he writes as follows:
Yule Island is unfortunately very poor in springs.
Father Fastre, who knew of your wonderful gift,
thought of asking you to find a spring in the vicinity of
the Mission, that is to say to the east of the island. You
asked for a map but as there was none to be had he gave
you the Almanac de Notre Dame du Sacre-Coeur (19 33) and
showed you the reproduction of a photograph of Yule
Island representing Port Leon which is the name of the
place given to the centre of the Mission. You examined
this picture with your pendulum, following the coast on
the north-east of the island, but you discovered nothing
worth while. As Father Fastre was remarking regretfully
• 4 3
that the picture was not large enough to enable you to
continue your investigations, you simply held your pen­
dulum outside the photograph, above the margin on the
right-hand side, and there you discovered a spring.
You explained this position to Father Fastr£, in general
aspect, going so far as to give him details about its output
and the amount of lime it contained.
Father Fastre was astounded for actually he knew about
this spring but wanted to put you to the test. The spring
was found to be entirely in accordance with your descrip­
tion. But for the purpose of future investigations, Father
Fastre made a note of the output and composition of the
water which he did not know before. He then requested
you to look on the south-east coast of the island, though
that coast was not represented on the plan. Surprisingly
enough your pendulum, which you held with the greatest
ease above it, revealed the presence of another spring on
that coast, a subterranean spring this time located lower
down. For this second spring you also gave details of its
situation, output and lime content, which was far less
important than in the case of the first spring. Neither
Father Fastre nor anyone else knew about the existence
of this spring. By way of confirmation, he made a rough
sketch of the site he knew so well, and with the indica­
tions you had given him, he found the actual location of
this second spring by holding the pendulum over the sketch.
Eight months later, Father Fastre was back to Yule
Island. As soon as he could find time, he decided to
verily the discoveries that you had made in your own
study thousands of miles away from here.
The first spring (N .E.) was actually found at the place
you had indicated on the reproduced photograph, but its
output was much smaller than that which you had fore­
cast. Was it an error? Not at all, for at the time when
Father Fastre consulted you the rainy season was in full
swing in Papusia and consequently the output of the spring
1 4 4
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
was much greater than that found by Father Fastre later on.
In point of fact, according to certain calculations, con­
firmed subsequently by actual experiment, Father Fastre
observed that the output of water which you had forecast
originally coincided exactly with that expected at the
time of the year when he had consulted you. With regard
to the lime content of the water he sent a sample of it to
a laboratory in Paris, and the result of the analysis was
very nearly the same as that given in your forecast.
Father Fastre proceeded in the same manner in the case
of the second spring (S.E.) which he discovered easily by
following your indications and which proved to be such
as you had described.
Such are the facts. They constitute a testimony as
sincere as it is spontaneous and all the more extraordinary
considering that these experiments were carried out in
such different places as Switzerland and Papusia, that is
to say at the antipodes. Furthermore, your discoveries
were carefitlly verified without any bias in your favour,
and this is all the more to your credit.
Your gift is thus a rare and wonderful one and we are
thankful to Divine providence for it. In conclusion, I
wish to thank you for the interest you have taken in our
Mission and are taking in general in all the different
Missions in the world.
(Signed) Dupeyrat, Missionary.
2. UNDERGROUND CAVITIES AND BURIED OBJECTS
Some Unusual Phenomena in a Well
Here follows a letter to M Giraudon (Seine-et-Oise), notary,
who had asked Abbe Mermet if he could explain the rumbling
noises and gushings observed at the bottom of a well.
This well, supplied by a spring, is connected through a
narrow conduit (passage, geological fault or crevice) with
one or several cavities (caverns), hermetically closed,
and communicating with the external air only through
the conduit mentioned above, being of narrow width, and
full of water over a certain course owing to being situated
on a lower level than that of the water of the well.
Whenever a barometric variation occurs, that is to say
atmospheric pressure, an equilibrium is established be­
tween the external pressure of the air and that of the air
contained in those great cavities.
When the atmospheric pressure increases, the external
air is forced back through the well and the conduit into
the cavities. When the atmospheric pressure fails, the
compressed air in the cavities escapes through the conduit
and the well to the exterior (atmospheric air). These in
and out movements of compressed air through the con­
duit and the well give rise to rumbling noises and gushings
in the well which are always observed whenever baro­
metric variations occur.
(Signed) Abbe Mermet.
Cavities
(Extract from a letter written by M Martinet, notary, 2, Place
Pilivuyt, Mehun-sur-Yevre, Cher, 2ist May 1930 .)
The discovery of cavities and galleries conforms exactly
to your distant prospection. I have informed our road
surveyor to that effect, and we both admire your ability
in obtaining such results with a pendulum.
Archaeology on a Plan
The main extracts from a letter written by the Archpriest of
Limours are given below. He had sent me a plan requesting
me to say whether there were any underground passages.
The results of the first investigation have been of the
greatest interest. What shall I say about the wonderful
indications that you have sent me.
1. You have rectified a point on my plan: the exit of
the gallery leading into the crypt under the choir. I had
146
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
given a rather vague indication but you have clearly shown
the exact point for this exit which I knew must be logi­
cally the opening of the way down towards the subsoil.
2. You have fixed the limits of a gallery starting from
the exterior and leading as far as the place where gold,
iron and bones might be found. This gallery was nearly
reached two years ago by excavations made for building
an office near the church.
3. What was of the greatest interest to us wr
as your
exact indication of a subterranean cavity, outside the
limits of my plan, which is known to us all.
4. With regard to the top of the steps going down on
the other side of the church to reach a gallery leading to
the front portal, I think we have come across something
representing the uppermost step.
You will readily realise that you have confirmed all our
theories and have given us besides, in connection with a
plan which seemed to be confined to the church, a mass
of information about certain things that are known and
on record in written documents. This is to say briefly
how reliable your method is and what an impression it has
made on those parishioners who knew what was going on
and to whom I could show the remarkable results ob­
tained.
With my cordial and fraternal gratitude.
(Signed) Humbert, Archpriest o f Limours. 3 rd May 19 3 0 .
Burial Places
(The following account appeared in the Bulletin des Amis de
l ’Abbaje de Hambje (Manche) Christmas 1933.)
Last March, our friend Leon Gosset, who was informed
of our excavation project, advised us to consult a dowser.
Meanwhile, the press had given publicity to the fact that
Abbe Mermet, parish priest of Saint-Prex (Switzerland),
had discovered on a plan and at a great distance, the body
of Leseure, a well-known personality in the Vendee
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
T47
region, which had been searched for since his dis­
appearance.
W e duly sent an illustrated postcard to Abbe Mermet
in Switzerland representing the choir of the Abbey and
requesting him to let us know what it contained. Three
days later, on 24th March 1933, we received a small plan
of the choir with the following comments: ‘ Here, very
roughly, is the result of my first prospection with the
pendulum.’ And he had drawn three tombs in the choir.
This information seemed to be too exact to be probable
and like the Trojans of old we did not believe in the oracle.
Digging operations were carried out, and it was only
when they had been completed that the Abbe’s forecast
was compared with the results. The choir had revealed
three tombs with skeletons, all three side by side, on the
gospel side of the altar. And Abbe Mermet’s plan, sent
to us three months before, indicated ‘three tombs with
skeletons, all three on the gospel side of the altar’ . And
very nearly at the place where they were discovered.
Discovety of Relics of Saint Victor, Martyr
On 21 st January 1935 I was giving a lecture at Poitiers. As I
was concluding, I was given a large sheet of paper which had
to be read aloud. As I was hesitating, suspecting a joke at my
expense, I was reassured and I read the following account
which appeared in the press a few days later, notably in the
Echo de Paris, 29th January 1935-.
The Marquis Aymer de la Chevalerie, owner of the
Chateau de la Rochefaton (Parish of Loumois, Deux-
S&vres), knew that one of his famous ancestors, Count
Charles d’Autichamp, who played an important part
during the Revolution, was buried in the castle but he
did not know where. Wishing to give him a grave com­
memorating his glorious memory the Marquis sent a plan
of the chapel of the castle to Abbe Mermet.
The Abbe replied that he could find no trace of tire
148
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
body of the Count but on the other hand he had a very
distinct feeling that under the site of the old altar in the
chapel there were remains of another man at a depth of
2 metres, together with 2 kilograms of copper and tin
(length 1*14 metre and height o-2 j metre) and j grams
of gold.
On 19th January, knowing that the Abbe was coming
to give a lecture on the 21 st, the Marquis gave orders to
have a search carried out in time for his arrival.
Abbe Mermet’s forecast was confirmed with complete
success. Digging operations to a depth of 2 metres re­
vealed the presence of a coffin having the dimensions
stated and with the four comers covered with copper
bearing this inscription: ‘ Relics of Saint Victor, pre­
sented by Pope Gregory XVI, and brought back from
Rome by d’Autichamp in 1 8 3 3 . ’
This coffin will be opened shortly in the presence of
Ecclesiastical Authorities.
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
And the account I was reading aloud ended by saying: ‘It is
on the plan shown here that Abbe Mermet had given his indi­
cations from his presbytery at Jussy in Switzerland.’
Underground Cavities
(Maine de Saint-Germain-les-Tours, Arrondissement de
Figeac (Lot). 29th September 19 3 4 .) I wish to thank you
most sincerely for having kindly carried out the test I
had suggested.
I consider that the result you obtained by a rapid
prospection on a small-scale map is absolutely convincing.
I think it is remarkable to have been able to detect the
lay-out of the galleries in such a manner.
With all my thanks.
(Signed) Georges de Lavaur, Engineer.
10 Rue Poussin, Paris (XVI).
I nrust apologise for the delay in acknowledging receipt
149
of the plan which you were kind enough to mark for me.
I wish to thank you and to congratulate you. The
cavity which you had marked has been found at the exact
place indicated. And you also indicated a subterranean
pavement which I knew was there but which I had
omitted to mention.
With all my thanks.
(Signed) Raymond Barrate,
Azay-sur-Cher. 1 gth October l pyy.
3 . PETROLEUM
Tuggen (Switzerland)
The newspapers having announced that a Company had been
formed to search for petroleum at Tuggen near the Lake of
Zurich, I examined the map to see if there was any hope of
finding petroleum in that region. The examination having
proved to be absolutely negative I took the liberty of writing
to the Administrative Council to warn them, telling them
frankly that it would be sheer waste of money. 1 received a
polite reply thanking me and informing me that nevertheless
digging operations would not be carried out elsewhere. And
in point of fact digging was continued to a depth of 900 metres.
Not finding anything, instead of stopping, the Company re­
mained obstinate and appealed for funds. Finally, a depth of
1,300 metres was reached without finding any trace of
petroleum.
The journal La Sentinelle, reporting the failure of the enter­
prise, commented as follows: ‘Boring operations for petroleum
in the region of Tuggen have been definitely suspended. A
depth of 1,200 metres had been reached without any trace of
the precious oil that was expected to be found. A vast amount
of money has been invested in this enterprise. Dismantling of
machinery has already started.
‘ Abb6 Mermet, the well-known dowser, had long ago told
the prospectors for petroleum in Tuggen that there was none
to be found in that region, and that it was a waste of time and
150
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
money to persist in carrying out such a useless search. He was
laughed at. But today he who laughs last laughs best while the
future magnates of Swiss Petroleum must now be laughing on
the wrong side of their faces and tearing their hair out of
disappointment, while regretting not having taken the advice
of the famous dowser seriously. ’
Orbe ( Vaud - Switzerland)
When the press announced that a drilling plant for petroleum
was being installed near Orbe, I said publicly on several occa­
sions that no liquid petrol would be found in the Orbe Valley.
In the event, it was proved, as at Tuggen, that my forecast was
correct.
The journal Droit du Peuple made the following comments:
‘ Let us recall, in this connection, the lectures given in
Lausanne by Abbe Mermet, a specialist in such matters. He
always denied the existence of petroleum in that region and
forecast that boring operations would give negative results. It
is said that the precious liquid, estimated at first at a depth of
200 metres, is actually located at 800 metres but that the
inadequate machinery has not enabled the workers to reach
such a depth. It is just a farce and an attempt to gloss over the
blunder that was made.’
Gabion
(The testimony given below was preceded by a correspondence
summed up as follows: The engineer who had already con­
sulted Abbe Mermet, who had given the necessary indications
for the locality of La Terrasse (Is&re), had been trying hard to
persuade the mining engineers of Gabian to take the Abbe’s
advice. Not having been successful owing to the opposition of
official scientists, he suggested to the Abbe that he should
make a distant prospection on a plan of the boring operations,
giving details and specifying whether a particular operation
would give petroleum or not.
Abbe Mermet gave a forecast for three operations that were
being carried out, which he numbered 8, 9 and 10. He stated
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
that not one of them would give sufficient petroleum for in­
dustrial purposes. After two and a half months M Rodhain,
the engineer, wrote to the Abbe that while he appeared to be
right in the case of No. 8 and No. io, he must certainly be
wrong in the case of No. 9, owing to the fact that quite close
to No. 9 a well had been bored —No. 4. At a depth of 80 metres
they had found the main source of petroleum as well as the
characteristic smell of it. Now, as operation No. 9 had reached
a depth of 80 metres and as at that depth the same indications
were found, operation No. 9 should certainly give some pet­
roleum. Rut in spite of this indication, going counter to the
Abbe’s forecast, he confirmed his original indications and the
following testimony shows that he was absolutely right in
the case of operation No. 9 as well as for operations 8 and 10.)
Testimony.1 I, the undersigned, Georges Rodhain, Civil
Mining Engineer, supervising boring operations at Gabian
(Herault), certify that Abbe Mermet told me on 9th
April 1916 that boring operations 8 and 9 would give no
petroleum.
On 26th March 1926, 1 sent Abbe Mermet at Saint-
Prex (Vaud, Switzerland) a map of the region with a scale
1 : 10,000 indicating the sites of boring operations made
until then. Boring operations 8 and 9 had just been
started at the time. No. 8 had then reached a depth of
j £ metres and preparations were being made for No. 9.
After a study of the map and distant prospection from
Saint-Prex, that is to say at a distance of more than 500
kilometres, Abbe Mermet wrote me on 6th April 1926
that neither No. 8 nor No. 9 would give any liquid
petroleum at any depth, which was confirmed by letter
on 1 £th May, adding the same forecast of non-productivity
for operation No. 10 begun on 24th April whose actual
place had been indicated to him in the meantime on the
map.
The results of these boring operations were as follows:
152
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Operation No. 8 —produced a few carrots very slightly
impregnated with petroleum at a depth of 2 0 5 metres and
2 5 3 metres respectively, but the main level was found to
be full of water without the slightest trace of petroleum .
This boring operation was stopped on 2 3 rd June 1 9 2 6 at
a depth of 3 0 3 metres and the hole covered up.
Operation No. 9 —produced a few slight impregnations
of petroleum at a depth of 9 0 metres and a violent erup­
tion o f carbonic gas at 9 8 metres. This boring operation
was stopped on 1 7 th June 1 9 2 6 at a depth of 1 4 9 - 3 0
m etres and the bore-hole was filled in.
The traces of petroleum encountered were quite in­
significant.
Operation No. 1 0 —produced not the slightest trace of
petroleum and was stopped on 2 3 rd June 1 9 2 6 at a depth
of 2 6 4 metres.
(Signed) Rodhain. 4 th September 1926.
Annecy
In the well-known newspaper, Le Matin of Paris on 3 th January
1 9 3 6 , an article appeared stating that ‘While prospectors are
busy working, Abbe M ermet declared that there was no more
petroleum there than there are cherry trees in the Sahara.
‘At a distance of 2 0 kilometres from Annecy, not far from
des Usses, there is a river, extraordinarily rich in fish, and
near Frangy there is the small village o f Chilly. For some
months nowrthis village has been the scene of great excitement
for, in accordance with the belief of some geologists, orders
had been given to carry out boring operations there with a
view to exploiting petroleum which was thought to be present
in large quantities.
‘Drilling installations were put up some weeks ago, and the
whole site teemed with busy workers. But while the local
people believed in the actual presence of petroleum, Abbe
Mermet, the well-known radiesthetist, affirmed that there wr
as
no more petroleum there than there are cherry trees in the
Sahara.
i $3
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
‘ One thing at least is certain and that is that a great deal of
capital has been invested in the enterprise.
‘Who was right? The engineer or the radiesthetist?
‘ Facts soon gave the answer to this question.
‘ At a depth of 223 metres, a fatty substance was found with
a characteristic smell. Hopes w'cre running high. Abbe Mermet
was immediately contacted on the ’phone by his friend, M
Vial, chemist at Frangy. He said: “ They cannot have found
any petroleum at Chilly because there isn’t any there.”
‘Finally, the officials concerned at Strasburg had to admit
that the Abbe was right. The fatty substance was not petroleum
and the installation was demolished.
‘It should be noted that Abbe Mermet never even visited
Chilly.’
4 . GASES
Romaniche- Thorins (Saone-et-Loire)
On 10th March 1 9 3 $ M Desnuelles of Romaneche-Thorins
wrote to me saying that two days before, during the night, he
and his family had been badly shaken by a great thunder clap
although there was not a cloud to be seen in the sky. It was
only the day after that they were able to see the effects of the
thunder clap. Ceilings and walls were blackened, plaster had
fallen, and a wall was cracked. Was it a bomb? or a shell?
As usual, when I know nothing about the region or the
house, I asked that the plan should be sent to me, and having
examined it, I was able to reassure M Desnuelles that it was
nothing serious. In fact, it was an explosion of gas. A certain
amount of gas had accumulated under his house for years,
under an impermeable layer of clay. It eventually found an
outlet possibly as a result of an imperceptible seismic shock,
hence the explosion. I told M Desnuelles that he could now
rest in peace. But if he wanted to prevent any future explosion
I advised him to dig to a depth of 6 metres at the place indicated
with a cross on the plan and he would find a calcareous fissure
serving as an orifice for the gas. This orifice could then be
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHES1A
i * 4
fitted with a tube for the free escape of gas or it could be
blocked with concrete to a depth of i or 2 metres, and there
would be no further trouble.
At a depth of 6 metres this orifice was actually found and the
gas was inflammable. My second suggestion was adopted in
order to get rid of the smell of gas. More than a year has
elapsed since then, and no noise or smell has been observed.
M Desnuelles came to pay me a visit and thanked me for my
advice.
Montagny ( Vaud, Switzerland)
A phenomenon of the same nature occurred in the small
village of Montagny in 1934.
The schoolteacher informed me that from time to time in
the class-room the inkstands were found to be cracked, some­
times on one side and sometimes on the other, and this always
happened during the night and no-one ever noticed any noise,
thunder, or anything else.
On the plan of the school which the schoolteacher sent me
I indicated several fissures issuing like rays from the centre of
a circumference. I told my correspondent that some gas had
accumulated under the house and exploded from time to time,
finding an outlet through one of the fissures. I advised him to
block a certain place with concrete and the inkstands would
no longer get cracked. This was duly done and there was no
more trouble.
Will-o’-the-Wisp at Perrignier (Thonon, Haute-Saroie)
Last April 1936 in the region between Perrignier and Drail-
lant, people could see over a period of several weeks a
succession of flames which appeared and disappeared just like
some will-o’-the-wisp. This phenomenon greatly puzzled the
local people.
A correspondent of the Petit Dauphinois had the idea of
interviewing me, and I gave him the following explanation.
‘ Those glimmering lights emanated from sheets of petroleum
at a depth of 4 to 6,000 metres. It is either a question of gas
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
i * *
or ofcertain liquids drivenback bythepressure ofgases which
infiltrate like water through rocks. But it would be useless to
attempt to exploit any petroleum in the region of Savoie.
“There isnomore petroleumtherethancherry-blossoms inthe
Sahara.”
‘The greatest boring depth 1know of is in America which is
about 2,yoo metres below ground level, but on the average,
it varies between 800 and 1,200 metres according to die
origin and quality of the petroleum extracted. Therefore it is
useless to hope for exploitation of petroleum in the region
in question.’
The moral of all this is that if one allows oneself to be
guided by the presence of gas, one may come across an un­
foreseen obstacle.
Subterranean Veins of Gas in Switzerland
Extractfrom Journalfrangais de Geneve, 29th June 19 36 . I wrote
a letter to the above journal and certain passages of it called
for special attention. With regard to the boring operations at
Saint-Colombe I stated that ‘I am not the only one to have
indicated the presence of petroleum in that place. I was con­
sulted for my advice and I approved and still approve of the
boring operations in progress, being quite sure that there is
some petroleum at Saint-Colombe. The hope of finding it
there one day should not be given up for it is indeed greater
than ever. Moreover, when I said that there was not more
petroleum than cherry-blossoms in the Sahara I was not refer­
ring to the boring operations at Cuarny but to those at Chilly
(Haute Savoie). And events proved that I was absolutely right
as I was in my negative forecasts concerning the boring opera­
tions at Tuggen and Orbed
From the great deposits of petroleum in Rumania and Galicia
a powerful column of gas escapes, running through Italy via
Bari, Rome, Genoa and Turin. Reaching the Alps, it bifurcates
into two branches going towards the Lake Leman at a depth of
about 800 metres. One of these branches goes by way of
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Lausanne, Romainmotier, etc., and the other by Montreux,
Moudon, Estavayer, Boudry (Neuchatel) etc. Both end in the
French Jura where their presence has often been observed and
mistaken for liquid petroleum which resulted in many useless
boring operations.
The branch running via Montreux, before arriving at
Moudon has a ramification passing via Sottens and Bercher. The
latter gives off a small branch like a discharge pipe ending at
Cuamy where its orifice has been known for three centuries.
Despite the escape of columns of gas there are no indica­
tions that petroleum will be found at Cuarny.
It is perhaps the first time that I wish that my forecast will
prove to be wrong for petroleum is a source of incalculable
wealth in any region.
£. MINERALS AND HIDDEN TREASURE
Gold
M de C . . . at R . . . wrote to me requesting me to help
him to find a gold ring in a steep and rocky place, and enclosing
a photo of it.
I thought I had discovered it at the bottom of the photo but
a first search in the place I indicated revealed nothing. Sub­
sequently, M de C. wrote to me on the 26th October 1933
as follows:
I have much pleasure in informing you that I have found
my ring quite near the place you had marked on the
photo. A more careful examination of the photo I sent
you showed that you had actually indicated the place
where it was to be found but, as it was in the bottom of
a fissure at a depth of 2-^0 metres, and the photo having
been taken exactly above it, the ring could not be found
without a more thorough and deeper search. It is entirely
due to your help that I have found my ring and I wish to
thank you most sincerely. It had a sentimental value and
I am glad to see another positive result to the credit of
distant prospection
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
157
(Signed) A. de C.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Gold, Silver and Coal at Tornic (Loire-lnjericure)
When in 1919 I wanted to inform my distinguished pupil,
Abbe Racineux, that I had discovered a method of distant
prospection, I wrote to him asking him to send me a plan of
his house and to mention what articles in gold and silver
would be found in it the following Thursday, and also if there
would be any coal.
On the stated day I made a distant prospection and discovered
gold, silver and coal wherever my friend had put them. With
regard to the coal he was completely unaware of its presence.
He wrote to me as follows:
My dear Colleague,
I was waiting for your answer with great impatience. I
must frankly admit that I understand absolutely nothing
about your new method of prospecting and I am too
puzzled for words. How can you manage to determine in
such a precise manner hidden objects, their number and
place, the day and hour when the person concerned has
put them away — and at a distance of 1,0 15 kilometres
separating Pomic from Landeron? And yet, it is exactly
what you have done. Abbe Louet, at Pomic, to whom I
sent your first letter could not believe it. He said we
w'ere a couple of humbugs who must have made a pact
with Satan! I hope you will not be offended by his remark.
In any case, I am taking the liberty of show ing him your
letter in which you tell me about your experiment which
is so conclusive. You have indeed achieved a complete
success.
It was actually on the Thursday in question between
9.4$ and 10 a.m. that I put away my money, a sum of
400 francs in silver coins, and you said approximately
375 francs, in a drawer of a table.
As for gold, I did not have any as you say. I gave it all
for the purpose of National Defence, except a gold watch
- a family souvenir —which was put in a draw er on the
right-hand side, which you duly indicated.
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
But what surprised me most of all was the fact that you
had detected some coal in the south-west part of my
garden, and in my shed. I had quite forgotten that I still
had since 1 9 1 1 , 28 to 30 kilos of coal, half buried, and
under the branches of some trees. My surprise was still
greater when you stated that I also had a very small
quantity of coal in my shed where I actually have 12 to
15 kilos of charcoal.
W ell, your new method of prospecting is indeed
wonderful, being so exact.
As you cannot tell me all about it in a letter, I shall
have to go and see you in Switzerland as I am very keen
on learning your method thoroughly. Meanwhile, I am
sendingyou these fewlines and wall write you againmore
fully when I have a few moments to spare.
(Signed) Abbe Racineux, Tronic. 12th May 1919.
Hidden Treasure
About two years ago I consulted you about making a
search for gold on my property. You indicated a place
where there was 400 francs in gold. And the place you
had marked on the plan which I had sent you was exactly
w'here my safe had been put containing 23 gold coins.
Having lost your address I could not let you know
before now. I consider it my duty to thank you and tell
you about the successful result of your distant prospection.
(,Signed) Georges Otto,
Houjfalize, Belgium. 5th February 19 34 .
The Hertain ‘ Treasure’
Who has not heard of the famous Hertain Treasure on the
Franco-Belgian Frontier?
The priest in charge of the orphanage at Arras, who strives
hard without sufficient resources to look after a great number
of orphans, had been indulging in wishful thinking, and accord­
ing to him there was a great treasure amounting to a vast sum
of money hidden underground at a depth of 13-50 metres.
159
As soon as I heard the rumour, and as the press had given
it much publicity, I took a map and looked for Hertain. Then
I wrote to the Association of Dowsers in Lille that there was
nothing there except a column of wr
ater with an output of
200 litres a minute which, obstructed by a layer of marl, had
to find an outlet elsewhere, and had eroded the ground a little
in that place.
It was found that I was perfectly right.
Note on ‘Treasure Troves’
For the sake of thoroughness, I ought to mention the many
plans, maps and photos which I receive every day, requesting
me to discover water, mineral ores, petroleum, etc. In the
majority of cases I have had to reply briefly: ‘ Non-existent’ ,
‘too little’ , ‘too deep’ , and so on.
And what is one to say about the alleged treasures which,
according to old legends, exist in ancient castles, convents,
churches or crypts. I have quite made up my mind on this
point. In 999 cases out of 1,000 they are purely imaginary.
Sometimes I am told a grandfather, father or uncle, had
money, for it was well known, but when he died nothing was
found. Or, the deceased person wno was rather a miser had
always said: ‘You wr
ill have enough money when I die.’ But
again nothing at all was found. The idea persists that money
must be hidden somewhere. To all such people I can only say:
‘ Are you quite sure that your dead relative had so much
money?’ or ‘Are you certain that he did not pay his debts,
which he did not want you to know about, before his death?’
or again ‘Did he not let you believe he had a fortune he did
not really possess or that he had lost it . . . in order to retain
the respect of his family?’
Note on Clairvoyants
I am also frequently called upon to determine the place of a
treasure whose existence has been revealed by a clairvoyant
who said: ‘ Do not sell your house for there is a treasure in it’,
160
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHES1A
even indicating, at least approximately, the sum which is
always enormous.
Needless to say that 99 times out of 100 it is pure humbug.
But it would be unfair to deny absolutely the possibility of
this kind of distant vision.
One day, a family in the Canton of Neuchatel requested me
to come and confirm what a clairvoyant had told them. ‘There
is a place, the only one from which it is possible to see two
windows of the hotel X (principal local hotel) and there some
gold is hidden.’ But these people had not been able to find that
particulai place. When 1 arrived in the locality, I made my
usual survey of the horizon and I could feel at a distance of
300 metres a reef of gold directed towards a point situated at
about 600 metres from the railway station, and where it took
on an upward direction and had a greater breadth.
I followed aip the track of this reef and at the end of it, at
the distance of 600 metres mentioned before, it was surprising
to see from there the two windows of the hotel in question
which was the only place from which they could be seen. The
clairvoyant woman had seen gold at such a particular point but
she had mistaken a reef for a hidden treasure.
6 , A NORTH POLE TRAGEDY AND ABBE MERMET
The Nobile Expedition — The Feuille d ’Avis dc Lausanne, on
10th July 1928, published the following article under the
above heading.
‘Abbe Mermet of Saint-Prcx wrote to the Bank of Italy in
London on jth June 1928, informing them that according to
his method of distant prospection the Nobile Expedition must
have been divided into two groups, w'hich was confirmed on
1 2th June by Nobile’s telegram.’
On 23rd June the Journal de Genive published a long article
about this tragic expedition and concluded in the following
words: ‘As for the Italia, about which there is no news, the
dirigible must be, judging by the direction of the fatal storm,
to the east of Nobile’s present position.
EXAMPLES OF DISTANT PROSPECTION
‘An interesting item of information, coming from the
famous radiesthetist, Abbe Mermet, refers to two or three
tons of scrap iron corresponding to the dirigible itself, and to
at least three men in the longitude of 26 degrees east, and lati­
tude of 81*40 degrees north. The violent storm would thus
have grounded those who escaped in the opposite direction to
that where they were expected to be found. This forecast
should be verified as soon as possible.’
The Tribune de Geneve, of 7th August 1931, referring to the
victims, in connection with the Count Zeppelin Polar
Expedition, recalled the forecast mentioned above. ‘On that
occasion’ , it said, ‘ the indication came from us, and it was
Abbe Mermet, the famous radiesthetist, whose integrity is
unimpeachable, who had revealed important facts which were
widely publicised at the time.
‘ The Abbe indicated as many as five places, all in the
Spitzberg area, where human beings would be found, either
alive or dead. Thus, in the English Bay, to the south-west of
the King’s Bay, he found a dead body in a crevice at a depth
of 9 metres. And also in Dickson’s Bay, on a peninsula in an
eastern direction. Furthermore, the Abbe discovered two
men, one of whom was ill. A certain amount of metal, about
6 jo kilograms, should be found quite near them, he added.
‘ Lastly, and indeed the coincidence seems significant, the
Abbe could see men “ with 2,joo kilograms of scrap iron’ ’ at
a latitude of 80 degrees and a longitude of 27*30 degrees. And
the position indicated corresponds very nearly to the place
where Nobile and his companions pitched their camp after the
catastrophe. According to the Swedish aviator Lundborg, who
rescued Nobile, the remains of the crashed dirigible were near­
by. It seems clear that the incident was very disturbing and
certainly called for a closer examination,’
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
XIV EXPERIMENTS FOR BEGINNERS
I . BY CONTACT
1ETtheoperator place asilverobject forexample, onastand,
jand put the index finger of his left hand on it. In his right
hand, between the thumb and the index finger let him bold
a watchsuspended by its chainand adjust the length, that is to
say the chain should be allowed to slip between the fingers
until a certain length has been found giving the pendulum the
most marked movement. It is important that the right arm
should not be contracted and be free from any stiffness, the
hand should be relaxed, holding the chain with the least
possible pressure.
If the operator is gifted with a little sensitiveness, the pen­
dulum (inthis case thewatch) will oscillate 6times, sometimes
in one direction and sometimes in the other, as 6 is the
numerical figure of silver. If the same experiment is repeated
with other metals, the operator will find, provided the pendu­
lum fulfils the necessary conditions, that the figure of gold is
1 1 , that of iron4, copper 7, water 7, liquid petrol 22, coal 30.
Avariation of this experiment consists in putting the left hand
open on one’s back and letting someone place a gold, silver
or copper coin in it. The series given by the pendulum will
then enable the operator to know the nature of the metal.
2 . WITHOUT CONTACT - BY MEANS OF
THE FUNDAMENTAL RAY
The silver object is placed on astand but not touched with the
left hand as before.
The fundamental radiesthetic ray of silver is directed to­
wards the east, but it is short if the quantity of the metal is
small. With the right hand, the pendulum should be moved
all round the object but without touching it. To the east of
the coin the pendulumbegins to oscillate, giving the character­
istic series of silver, 6.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
3 . WITHOUT CONTACT — BY MEANS OF THE SOLAR RAY
A radiesthetic ray, that is to say a straight line along which
the pendulum oscillates and rotates, always links up the sun
with the object itself. The same applies to any artificial
luminous source.
If a silver coin is placed on a stand and an electric lamp
switched on, a ray travels between the lamp and the coin (in
this case the position of the right foot is immaterial). When
the pendulum, held in the right hand, is placed between the
lamp and the coin, it will indicate the solar ray by giving the
figure of silver 6 . Two points of this ray will give its direction.
The lamp should be put in a different place or another one
switched on. A second direction will intersect the first at a
certain point; the silver coin or object, even if hidden, is
there.
4. WITHOUT CONTACT - BY MEANS OF THE CAPITAL RAY
A radiesthetic ray, which I call Capital Ray, always links up
the object with the dowser’s brain. It is the most mysterious
ray of all, but also the most useful one, since it enables us to
carry out distant prospection. It is picked up with the left hand
held at the level of the eyes while turning the body slowly
round until the pendulum begins to move, giving the figure
of the object searched for.
For example, the operator is asked to leave the room (as in
the case of a charade) where a silver coin is then hidden.
On re-entering the room , the operator extends the left arm,
turns his body slowrly round until the pendulum held in the
right hand gives the figure of silver. The direction of the left
arm should be noted. The operator should then go to another
part of the room where he will obtain a second direction whose
intersection with the first will indicate the position of the
object.
This procedure, which works quite wrell indoors, is equally
useful on location to the limits of the visible horizon.
1 6 4
EXPERIMENTS FOR BEGINNERS
£. PROSPECTION ON PHOTOGRAPHS
It must not be assumed that the following experiment is more
difficult to carry out than the preceding ones.
Let us take some back numbers of an illustrated periodical
such as VIllustration. It will be easy to find photographs repre­
senting silver objects. Having found one, the operator should
put the index finger of his left hand on it, or better still, the
pointed end of a pencil or any other object forming an antenna,
and held in the left hand. He will be surprised to see the pen­
dulum, held in the right hand, giving the figure of silver.
Similarly with all other bodies, gold, bronze, petrol, as well
as animals and human beings, whose photographs may be used
for the purpose of this experiment. It is by no means impossible
that the photographic negative, and its reproductions, have
registered, in addition to luminous radiations, the invisible
radiations which affect the pendulist.
6 . PROSPECTION ON MAPS
As in the case of photographs and photographic reproductions
the operator moves a finger of his left hand, or a pencil,
slowly over the map while observing the indications of the
pendulum, held in the right hand.
He should begin by verifying what the map indicates:
rivers, springs, railway lines, mines, etc. The pendulum
will give the figures of water 7, iron 4, coal 30, and so on.
Then the operator should search for what the map does not
indicate such as a river recently intercepted by a barrage; a
new mine, a subterranean stream, a hidden treasure, etc. The
pencil-antenna should then be put over the line indicating a
busy road. When there is no traffic, the pendulum remains
motionless, but whenever a car passes the point under obser­
vation, it gives the figure of iron. Thus it is possible while in
Paris, to count the number of cars crossing the Mayence
Bridge in the course of an hour.
The results of prospection on a map are somewhat per­
plexing. The map seems to play only an intermediary part,
l6$
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
limiting the dowser’s attention to the site under observation.
Inany case, the distance of the site, even if it were as far away
as the antipodes, is no obstacle.
7. USEFUL EXPERIMENTS
If one happens to live in the Perigord region or that of Mont-
Ventoux, one can search on the map, beforehand, and thenon
the site itself, for the location of a truffle ground. The witness
method enables one, by cross-checking two directions, to
find the location of a deposit of truffles which, as is well
known, are grouped together like potatoes.
Ifone is a hunter, it is possible to trace a hare inhis covert,
a wounded partridge, or a dog running after a wild boar.
Using the pendulum on a map, a Custom-House Officer can
follow the track of smugglers. The owner of a stolen car can
trace the garage where it has been taken.
In countries where children are kidnapped for the purpose
of getting a ransom, dowsers could organise information
centres and co-operate with the police, and there would be
no need for them to fear any unemployment.
r
V
i
166
Part IV: Radiations o f Living Beings
XV PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
I . ORIGIN
I
N 190^-6 it occurred to me one day that as it was possible
to study the surface of the earth as well as inanimate objects
with the pendulum, it should also be possible to study pheno­
mena in living beings. Veins and arteries could be likened to
subterranean streams. Bones, flesh and nerves could be imag­
ined as having certain analogies with various underground
strata. This idea set me working and observing the radiations
of the human body and its organs.
1 soon found out that organs affected by disease did not give
the same figure of radiation as healthy organs. I had made a
discovery, 1 had invented the method of ‘pendular diagnosis’ .
And ever since then, in clinics and infirmaries, and chiefly in
the course of my ministry to the sick in my parish, I was able
to establish certain rules, based on a great number of observa­
tions, which laid the foundations for making a radiesthetic
diagnosis.
I lost no time in communicating my observations to doctors,
veterinary surgeons and herbalists, who took up the practice
of radiesthesia with successful results.
As far back as 1910, I received a short note from Abbe
Kunzle^D who was then parish priest at Zizers, Grisons
(Switzerland), saying: ‘I must thank you for having taught me
the use of the pendulum for diagnosing diseases. I have found
it to be the most reliable means for that purpose. Again
thanking you most cordially. (Signed) John Kunzle.’
^ A b b i Kunzle was a legendary figure on the Continent as a healer some fifty years
ago. He learnt the art of pendular diagnosis from Abbe Mermet in connection with
his own special herbal treatment with which he obtained a great number of remark­
able cures. In 1918, after the war, when the pandemic of influenza swept through
Europe, there was not a single victim in his own parish. (Trans.)
167
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
2 . MAIN FEATURES
Let us now give a brief summary of the main features typical
of biological Radiesthesia.
A. First of all, let us recall that each species of living beings
is characterised by a numerical figure and a direction of rotation
which are specific. It is now necessary to specify more fully
and to show that in any given case of a living being, the pen­
dulum can furnish certain indications with a high degree of
precision.
B. Each of the great systems in the human body: osseous,
muscular, nervous, circulatory, etc., possesses a special
numerical figure.
Osseous system 9
Muscular system 11
Circulatory system 1 f
Nervous system -M*j
The same applies to the principal organs:
Brain 20
Heart 12
Lung 1 o
Stomach 7
Liver 11
Kidney 14
These figures do not vary, either with the individual or
with the state of health or sickness.
C. Furthermore, each of the systems or organs mentioned
above gives another numerical figure which varies from 1o to o,
according to the state of health or the extent of the disease
affecting it.
For example: Stomach in good health: 1o
Stomach affected by disease: 1, 2, 3, 4, etc.
D. All microbic diseases have a figure which is the char­
acteristic figure of the causative microbe.
168
PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
Here are a few examples:
Staphylococcus (pus) 24
Pneumococcus (pneumonia) 28
Bacillus of Tuberculosis 35‘ f
Streptococcus (erysipelas) 40
Bacillus of Typhoid S °
Microbe of Syphilis SS
Bacillus coli (Intestinal tract) 60
Bacillus of Cholera 70
E. There are some diseases which, at the present time, are
not regarded as being due to microbes but which, nevertheless,
give a special figure.
For example: Cancer 40-42
Inflammation of tissues 60
Paralysis 19
etc.
F. If one has to examine a subject, human or animal, the
following questions arise:
1. Is any organ affected by disease ?
2. If so, which one?
3. Which part of the organ, and if possible, where is the
precise seat of the trouble?
4. What is the nature of the disease?
5. To what extent has it progressed?
G. W e will now proceed to show how these questions
should be dealt with.
1. The first step consists in finding out the personal radia­
tions of the subject; then the pendulum is held all over the
body at a distance of 15-20 cm., which is a good distance to
pick up individual radiations. If the pendulum is held over a
diseased organ it is repelled and drawn away from the body
while tracing in the air, in a vertical plane, a loop which ends
up on the spot affected by disease, and the more an organ is
diseased, the larger this loop becomes.
169
The modifications of the movements of the pendulum thus
justify the theory th.it the ‘ radiations of a diseased organ are
not the same as those of a healthy organ’ .
2. The diseased organ is the one found exactly at the level
where the pendulum traces the loop.
3. To localise the area affected by disease, one must know
its projection on the surface and its depth in the tissues. With
a finger of the left hand, a pencil, or some other pointed object,
forming an antenna held over the patient’s clothes, without
even touching them one searches for the affected part of the
body, noting at which particular spot the pendulum reacts.
The depth is obtained in the same way as in the case of a
subterranean body, but here the standardisation of the pendu­
lum must be made in centimetres and millimetres.
4. The nature of the disease is indicated by its character­
istic figure given by the pendulum.
5. The extent of the disease is also indicated by an objective
figure. A healthy organ is registered by the figure 10 while a
diseased organ shows a different figure, generally lower. The
more an organ is diseased the nearer its figure is to o. But there
are certain exceptions. In the case of excitement, the figure
rises, for a person temporarily tired, to 36-5-0. Higher figures
indicate grave neurosis.
H. As the pendulum gives, for the same organism, figures
varying greatly according to the individual, sex, organs, dis­
eases, etc., how is one to know what the numerical figure
obtained corresponds to?
This involves subtle distinctions requiring all the talent and
experience of a competent practitioner. It is certain that a
beginner will be confused by all those indications and that he
will blame the pendulum and Radiesthesia in general. But in
the case of a competent radiesthetist he obtains the figure
corresponding to the question on which he has concentrated
his attention, and has unconsciously adapted his receptive
apparatus accordingly. It is rather like hearing, in the course
of a noisy conversation, a voice which one finds to be attrac-
170
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
tive, and in a concert the instrument that one likes best. It is
a general law: selection by means of concentration.
Many doctors have told me that one of the reasons why
they cannot always make a definite diagnosis is due to the fact
that certain diseases sometimes show the symptoms of other
diseases. Thus tuberculosis may ‘imitate’ pleurisy; syphilis
may simulate paralysis, epilepsy, meningitis, and so on. But
thanks to the specific radiations of each disease, it is easy for a
doctor, knowing how to use the pendulum, to discern the real
cause. All that is required is to note the figures obtained on
the patient and compare them with those characteristic of
microbes. For example: tuberculosis, 35-5; syphilis, 55.
Errors in diagnosis are all the more understandable owing
to the fact that pain is often felt at a different place from that
where the disease is actually located. An observant mother
know s quite well that if her child complains of itching in the
nose, there is reason to suspect the presence of intestinal
worms. Violent headaches may be due to indigestion. In such
cases, the doctor-radiesthetist can easily connect cause and
effect. He holds his pendulum over the painful part of the
body, picking up the radiations of the disease and tracing them
to the real cause. The same method applies to two organs
which are contiguous. It enables one to discern the organ that
is affected. Thus the liver and the gall-bladder are likely to
cause confusion.
In the case of cancer, when a surgical operation must be
performed, it is extremely important to know exactly the full
extent of the malignant growth, otherwise a new growth may
recur out of the roots of the primary growth. The pendulum
indicates exactly the parts of the body that are affected by
what is known in medical parlance as ‘metastases’, that is to
say secondary deposits from the primary growth.
3. CASES OF PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
Experiments carried out with the sole object of obtaining
documentary evidence, on animals and human beings, have
171
resulted in confirming conclusively the principles laid down
in the foregoing pages.
I have a great number of testimonies from doctors congratu­
lating me on having been able to indicate with my pendulum,
with great accuracy, on the photographs of patients, the nature
of certain particular diseases and their localisation.
I may be allowed to give an extract from a monograph
entitled Pages de Gloire, written by a lawyer, M Dessart, in
Li&ge, in 1926.
Abbe Mermct holds the pendulum in his right hand and
moves it along all over the body, a few inches above it.
W e have seen him in action at the Institute for Cancer in
Louvain, in the presence of three doctors. After having
examined ten patients in bed, completely covered up to
the chin, and consequently giving no clue as to the
localisation of the tumour, and who had been instructed
not to say anything to him, he was able, in eight cases, to
indicate exactly the part of the body affected by the
dreaded disease. Two other cases remained doubtfid for
the Abbe indicated the primary focus of the tumour
which, according to him, was in the stomach while the
doctors knew only the secondary manifestation of it
which was in the throat.
In any case, it is clear that such experiments give most
valuable information to medical men and they may ulti­
mately result in confirming the theories first put forward
by the late Dr Abrams in America.
Case of an Iifant, aged 9 months
I was consulted one day by a doctor whose own child was
apparently dying and not responding to any treatment.
I immediately located the trouble in the region of the liver.
With the pendulum I established the fact that the infant’s
stomach could only tolerate milk provided it was diluted with
water, and the little patient made a rapid recovery.
Since then, the doctor wdio, like so many of his colleagues
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF R ADIE ST HE SIA
1 7 2
had ridiculed dowsers, now firmly believes in the pendulum
as a valuable diagnostic instrument.
Veterinary Cases
M Graf, inspector of forests in Morges, had asked me to search
for water on a farm which he had bought at Fontaines-les-Dijon
(Cote d’O r). Having done so, I was shown over the byre.
And after having examined his cowr
s with my pendulum I
pointed out to him that two of them were tuberculous. He
was painfully surprised but a few months later he wrote me a
letter thanking me for having found a spring on his farm and
congratulating me on having made a correct diagnosis in his
byre. The two cows in question were slaughtered and found
to be tuberculous.
A veterinary surgeon, M C. Favre, practising in Sion
(Switzerland) wrote to me as follows: ‘ Since you were good
enough to initiate me into the method of pendular diagnosis
on animals, I have cured more sick beasts during the last six
months than in the last ten years of my veterinary career.’
In conclusion it would seem desirable to regard the pendu­
lum as a useful instrument for medical purposes, intended to
clear up certain points w hich not infrequently remain obscure.
The pendulum can in fact detect microbes as soon as they are
present, either in the latent state (hereditary disease) or at
the onset of infection before the patient is aware of it and con­
sults his doctor. It is then an easier task to combat any
microbic infection. Indeed, it would be advisable for a man in
good health to have a periodic pendular examination, say every
three months, made by his own doctor. If there is anything
suspicious, the pendulum will detect it.
Cases oj Missing Organs
Not only can the pendulum detect diseased organs but it can
also indicate a missing organ, normally present in the body.
The following cases are worthy of notice.
Aux £coutes, 16th September 1933. The fame of Abbe
Mermet had become known to M Thebault, mayor and
PE NDULAR DIAGNOSIS
173
member of Parliament for Janze. He requested the Abbe
to visit the locality with a view to finding some drinking
water for the inhabitants. When the Abbe arrived at
Janze, he found -the mayor was unwell and complaining
of abdominal pain. Having heard of the Abbe’s method of
pendular diagnosis, he asked him whether his trouble was
due to appendicitis. The Abbe took out his pendulum and
let it swing over the patient’s abdomen. Then he an­
nounced: ‘ You have no appendix!’ ‘That’s quite right,’
replied the mayor, ‘I had it out in 1 9 2 7 . ’ Everyone was
astonished at the Abbe’s powers of ‘divination’ .
A doctor, practising at Moirans (Jura) was a confirmed
sceptic about everything connected with Radiesthesia,
especially pendular diagnosis.
The mayor of the locality invited the Abb6 to meet the
doctor, with a view to putting them both to the test. In
a tone of courteous irony, the doctor said he had heard
that the Abbe was doing wonderful work, including even
pendular diagnosis. The Abbe replied that he was only
making experiments for his own instruction and that of
others, including doctors. ‘Ah,’ said the doctor, with a
mocking air, ‘you now have an opportunity of making a
pendular diagnosis on myself.’ The Abbe found that the
doctor was in excellent health with no diseased organ.
But the doctor, determined to trip him up, enquired
whether he had not an excess or a deficiency of some­
thing or other in his body. To this the Abbe remarked
that there was something missing - his appendix. The
doctor had to admit that the Abbe was quite right for he
had it removed a few months ago.
They shook hands and the doctor became a convert to
Radiesthesia, and pendular diagnosis.
4 . THE GROW ING USE OF MEDICAL RADIESTHESIA
It is gratifying to record the fact that since the first edition
of the present work was published, great progress has been
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
174
made in the domain of medical Radiesthesia. On 26th Febru­
ary 19 35 in Paris, at a meeting of the Association of the Friends
of Radiesthesia, a medical section was formed consisting of
over eminent medical men, a number of chemists, and
three radiesthetists.
These investigators resolved to use the pendulum for diag­
nostic and therapeutic purposes, either in the presence of the
patient, or even in his absence, when a photograph, or simply
a drop of blood, urine, or any object worn by him (tie, hand­
kerchief, etc.) would be sufficient for the purpose of investi­
gations. I am informed that the number of doctors using the
pendulum is constantly increasing. There are already hundreds
of them in France and on the Continent.
PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
XVI HARMFUL RADIATIONS
I . AN IMPORTANT APPLICATION OF RADIESTHESIA
TO MEDICINE
O
N E of the most useful applications of radiesthesia to
Medicine lies in the fact that it enables one to detect
various diseases such as tuberculosis, cancer, etc., many months
or even years before the usual medical diagnosis can reveal
the symptoms, while they are developing or existing in a
latent state. The doctor with the aid of the pendulum, can
thus prevent such affections which is easier than curing them.
Radiesthesia also gives the highly valuable possibility of
determining the cause of certain diseases affecting a great
number of people when doctors have no knowledge of their
fundamental nature. This category of patients consists of people
who consult one doctor after another, take various remedies
or undergo many kinds of treatment without ever obtaining
a cure or even any permanent improvement. Such patients
are nearly always persons exposed daily to harmful radiations
emanatingfrom the subsoil and they constitute, in my experience,
about 2o per cent of the patients who consult doctors.
These harmful subterranean radiations are transmitted from
floor to floor in any house situated above them. One may be
exposed to them in a workshop, a factory, an office, as well
as in a flat on the tenth floor of a building. It is in a bedroom
that their presence is the most harmful for, in such a case, the
affected individual is not only subjected to the bad effects of
such radiations but is also deprived of sound and regenerating
sleep. Impaired health results in consequence and the affected
person suffers from various ailments which neither he nor the
doctor can account for. More often than not, owing to lack
of resistance, due to progressive weakness, such an individual
contracts a serious disease with fatal consequences. This may
attack any part of the body and it is undeniable that cancer
and tuberculosis find in such persons a suitable soil for their
176
HARMFUL RADIATIONS
development. But let us make it clear that without a radies-
thetic examination there is no means of discovering these
harmful radiations, hence the absolute necessity for a doctor
to have recourse to a competent radiesthetist.
There is nothing easier for an experienced radiesthetist than
to detect the presence of these harmful radiations. Personally,
with my pendulum, I can easily detect their existence not only
by examining the person exposed to them but also by means
of a photo or a letter written by him while a photo of the
house inhabited by the patient enables me to make the same
observation.
It is, however, much better, for the purpose of this examin­
ation, to have a detailed plan of the house or flat in which the
person lives, for, on this plan, one can easily determine and
define the zones exposed to harmful radiations. Often it is
sufficient to displace the bed or modify the disposition of
rooms to free the patient from the action of these harmful
radiations.
Anyone whose health is below par without any apparent
reason should have his house or flat examined, or the plan of
it, by a competent radiesthetist. And also, any landlord before
deciding to build a house on a certain site, should satisfy him­
self, by means of a radiesthetic examination, that the ground
on which he intends to build it is free from harmful radiations.
There are several kinds of apparatus giving more or less
satisfactory results, designed to neutralise harmful subter­
ranean radiations. It is, however, preferable, whenever pos­
sible, to avoid living, and especially sleeping in places exposed
to these radiations rather than have recourse to an apparatus.
2. AN EXAMPLE
By way of giving conclusive evidence in support of this theory
I will mention only one example which is very typical and
convincing and it concerns the case of a leading Paris physician.
This doctor wrote me the following letter, dated 29th August
I934:
M
i77
Since October 1930 I have been occupying a flat on the
second floor of a house indicated on the photo and plan
enclosed, all the rooms facing X street. This flat is used
only for professional purposes and 1 neither take my meals
nor sleep in it. I succeeded three doctors who all died in
the course of the past 13' years. One of them and his wife
had mental trouble; another suffered from exhaustion
without any known cause and the other had a heart
affection.
Since 1 took over these rooms I have noticed a pro­
gressive weakening of my physical state and of my
intellectual activities; in fact, the exhaustion is such that
at times it seems that I am liable to be the victim of the
slightest ailment, emotional upsets, irritability' without
cause, excessive sensibility beyond my control; also pal­
pitations of the heart forcing me to put my hand on it;
giddiness, sensation of general congestion. All these symp­
toms are accentuated in dry and sunny weather.
I began to see in my own person the various symptoms
which, at their worst, had ended the lives of my prede­
cessors. I also noticed that several tenants were suffering
from various diseases having certain common character­
istics, all of a congestive nature, affecting in some cases
the biliary tract and in others the urinary organs but
always with marked repercussions on the general state.
Having eliminated all possible causes: lack of fresh air,
fatigue, unw'holesome regime, etc., I came to the con­
clusion that there must be some harmful radiations. I am
extremely weak physically, and my intellectual activities
are impaired. I am convinced that my three predecessors
all died of the effects of these radiations. I also lost a dog
without any apparent cause. I am therefore writing to you
for expert advice in this matter as I cannot go on living
in this way.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
1 7 8
I duly examined the photo and the plan sent me by this doctor
and the result was that his suppositions were well founded. The
flat in question was, in feet, exposed almost entirely to strong
harmful radiations.
3. CAUSES OF HARMFUL RADIATIONS
It is in fact well known that certain houses and streets are
unhealthy. People living in them feel worse there than else­
where. Sometimes, stagnant water is responsible for humidity
and causes rheumatic affections. But the cause of the trouble
may be due to the presence of a certain kind of subterranean
water. I must stress that it is only a ‘certain kind’ for all kinds
of running water are not dangerous. Some give off only the
normal radiations of water but others seem ‘charged’ with
harmful emanations which give rise, or predispose people, to
cancer and many other diseases, directly or indirectly, owing
to lack of sleep.
The pendulum enables us to detect such radiations, after
having been standardised over streams of water known to be
harmless. The pendulum also indicates the possible cause of
the difference between wholesome and unwholesome water.
From a radiesthetic point of view wholesome water flows
through homogeneous strata whereas unwholesome water flows
through two different strata, for example, marl or clay, and
limestone or slate; it seems as if certain electrolytic effects
are produced.
If such w'ater comes into contact with harmful mineral ores
containing lead or mercury, it becomes charged with emana­
tions capable of causing various diseases in houses situated
over it.
To detect such water, it is necessary to consult a competent
radiesthetist, not forgetting that it is possible for him to make
a distant prospection, by means of a plan of the house drawn
in the horizontal plane (not vertical). A plan is indispensable
for indicating the exact place where a neutralising apparatus
should be put. But simply for finding out whether or not a
179
HARMFUL RADIATIONS
house is exposed to harmful radiations, an elevation or a photo
of the house is sufficient.
Dangerous radiations can be detected on people living in
exposed houses as well as on their photos.
The solution of this problem is to get rid of any stagnant
water, and if possible to divert subterranean streams. Beds,
and seats used for working should be displaced. But this is not
always possible, either because there is not enough room for
the necessary displacement or because the harmful radiations
permeate the whole premises.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
XVII SELECTION OF SUITABLE REMEDIES
T
HE pendulum, which reacts in a certain way to radiations
emitted by any given body, reacts differently when placed
between two bodies which are not similar in composition.
This is a well-established fact and it may be assumed that there
is some kind of concordance or discordance between the un-
dulatory periods of these bodies.
Observation shows that certain movements are manifested
when the two bodies in question are useful, neutral or harmful
to the human body.
For instance, let us take a small quantity of a substance used
as a remedy, say for the heart, and place it just in front of that
organ while the pendulum is held between the two.
If the substance is suitable, the pendulum oscillates more or
less markedly, from one to the other. If the substance is a
particularly suitable one, the pendulum rotates in a clockwise
direction; if it is neutral, the pendulum remains motionless;
and if it is unsuitable, the pendulum rotates in an anti-clockwise
direction.
Anyone can make this experiment by holding, say a cigar, a
flagon of alcohol or tincture of iodine, etc., at the level of the
throat, stomach, lungs, heart, etc. The same substance may be
good for a certain organ and harmful for another. Such an
indication of concordance, or otherwise, may well acquire an
important significance in the future from a medical point of
view.
Up till now such a method of investigation has been con­
fined to cancer. Out of over a hundred plants which I examined
I have been able to indicate with the pendulum a certain num­
ber which are distinctly suitable for treatment. I know several
doctors who use the juice of such plants in the treatment of
cancer and who have obtained some remarkable cures.
XVIII RADIESTHETIC CHARACTERISTICS
OF MAN
I . SERIAL NUMBERS AND ROTATIONAL DIRECTIONS
W
ITHOUT going into a detailed study of organs, which
will be discussed further on, let us mention the
following facts.
A. The pendulum indicates that man gives an impersonal
numerical figure, independently of the individual, his race
(white, black, yellow or red), and whether alive or dead. An
Egyptian mummy, a prehistoric skull, give the same number
of oscillations and rotations as a living person. The figure is 19.
The figure for a horse is 18.
B. Sex is indicated as follows:
Man: 12 oscillations followed by 12 rotations in a clock­
wise direction.
Woman: 6 rotations in an anti-clockwise direction
followed by 6 oscillations.
C. Every individual possesses a ‘personal numerical figure’ ,
characteristic of his own radiations, wrhich varies slightly with
the successive phases of life. It is first manifested feebly in
infancy, gradually increasing and reaching a high point at
puberty, finally reaching a maximum, and then decreasing in
the course of advancing years.
A few examples are given below:
Man 6^ years - Personal figure 23
1 J j j j j >
> H
»J 36 J j J J J J 21
Adolescent ^ j j n j j 1 5
Woman 48 j j j j j j 20
Girl *4 j j j j 14
1 8 2
RADIESTHETIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MAN
2 . REMANENT RADIATIONS
The personal figure can be detected for an appreciable period
of time on the objects or articles worn by an individual, such
as clothes, gloves, handkerchiefs, etc. In a letter, it is not the
handwriting which enables one to identify a person but the
paper which retains his radiations, provided it has not been
touched by other persons. A dead body gives a specific figure:
19. Does it retain the figure and direction of rotation of
sex? —Yes. Does it retain its personal figure? — Yes.
In a dead body (as in a living one) one can detect the defects
and the characteristics that were peculiar to the living
individual.
Thus the pendulum is a useful instrument for identification
purposes. In forensic medicine, physics and chemistry can only
indicate that a certain drop of blood is human blood but not
that the blood comes from any particular person. The pendu­
lum can indicate both for it detects the radiations of any
particular individual in the drop of blood under examination.
If this blood does not belong to the victim, the chances are
that it belongs to the murderer.
As regards prehistoric bones, when one does not know to
which species they belong, the pendulum could perhaps be
used but rather cautiously.
An anonymous letter, a forged signature, whether in a will
or on a painting, can also be subjected to pendular analysis.
Note - It is interesting to note that the same indications, to
a certain extent, are valid for the vegetable kingdom. If a
shrub or plant is burnt, the ashes will give the same radiations
as the living plants themselves: the inorganic constituents
remain and only the organic parts disappear.
83
XIX MEASURING THE POWER
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES
I . THE POSSIBILITIES
I
S it possible, by means of the pendulum, to have an approxi­
mate idea o f the power of the higher faculties in a human
?
It would not seem to be impossible, a priori, for these
faculties, although of an immaterial nature, manifest them­
selves only through the medium of the brain, and consequently
the physiological state of the brain must influence their
functions.
In any case, it is an experimental fact that the pendulum
gives certain numerical figures and that these figures corres­
pond pretty well to what one knows already about certain
individuals. (See Table below .)
These figures never vary, whether they are obtained from
the individual himself, his photograph or some adequate
reproduction.
One day, in a college, the headmaster held a march-past of
students before m e, all unknown to me, and asked me to
‘classify’ them with the pendulum. The results obtained by
this procedure corresponded exactly with the judgment o f the
professors. Two of the students were at the bottom of the
class. I said that one of them was stupid, and he was sent away.
The other, though lazy, was very intelligent. He was admon­
ished and became an excellent student.
The practical importance o f such an examination might be
considerable. Before embarking on a long course of studies in
mathematics, history, music, painting, etc., it is of the utmost
importance to know if the student is suitably gifted, so as to
save him from the possibility of wasting the best years of his
life and the bitterness afflicting those whose efforts have been
misdirected.
1 8 4
MEASURING THE POWER OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES
2 . TABLE OF HIGHER FACULTIES OF SOME GREAT
MUSICIANS
(Figures in brackets are those for the average man)
1 S ,
Memory
0
c
f
4
V
c
c
U
5
• f
a
s
5
£
3
1
Average (3°) (So) (38) (40) (40) (lo o )
Wagner So IJO 44 42 60 700
Beethoven SO 280 43 4s 60 850
Chopin 80 8$o 44 49 <>s *050
Mozart So 900 4 1 44 70 IOJO
Paderewski 60 50 0 41 So So 12 0 0
Gounod IOO 300 43 49 48 600
Berlioz 60 £00 40 44 43 6 jo
Johann Sebastian Bach 200 800 4S 48 80 12 5 0
Verdi 2 J0 800 41 42 38 6 50
Rossini I S O 350 4» 42 43 500
Palestrina lo o 400 43 4 1 S ° 900
Tchaikovsky 30 0 800 46 44 So 12 0 0
Cesar Franck IJO 500 49 44 37 600
It should be noted that the above figures were obtained from
pictures representing these masters, quite irrespective of the
knowledge of their fame, for in the case of Tchaikovsky, even
' his name was unknown to m e.©
© r h ose w h o h ave a k n o w le d g e o f m u sic w ill b e in te reste d to see th at B ach tops
th e list w ith a fig u re o f 1 2 $ o fo r h is m u sical g ift. T h is is a w o n d e rfu l triu m p h fo r R ad ie s-
th esia fo r B ach is u n iv e rsa lly a ccla im ed as a su p re m e m aster am on g m asters. T h e n
T c h a ik o v sk y fo llo w s as a clo se seco n d . H is ran ge o f m elo d io u s c o m p o sitio n w as
in d ee d m a rve llo u s, g re a te r in fa ct than th at o f B ee th o v e n . A n d M o z a rt, a paragon o f
m u sical g en iu s, is also sin g led o u t b y th e p en d u lu m as o n e o f th e g re a te st o f all c o m ­
p o se rs. (Trans.)
Tart V: Telediagnosis or Distant
Biological Detection
XX TELEDIAGNOSIS
I . PRINCIPLES
ALL that has been said inthe foregoing pages concerns living
beings actually ‘present’, but now we have a new fact
emerging out of practical experience and confronting us with
a resultant shock to our usual mode of thinking.
Just as in the prospection for mineral ores it was of little
importance whether thearea under observationwas under our
feet, or far distant, but represented by a map, photo, plan or
drawing, sothesameappliesfor the indications ofthependulum
ona livingbeing, whether present in person or represented by
a photo, picture, drawing or object having been used by him
and having retained his radiations.
In the case of a handwritten letter it is important not to
confuse radiesthcsia with graphology. It is not the handwriting
which is the significant factor but the sheet of paper itself,
handled or crumpled and retaining the radiations of the person
who wrote the letter, provided that it has not been touched by
anyone else.
As regards a photo, we submit the following theory which
seems to us to be reasonable. It is the visible luminous radia­
tions which have ‘engraved’ the image on the plate and on the
paper as well. It would not be surprising if the invisible radies-
thetic radiations were merged with them on the photo where
the eyes can only perceive visible radiations. Furthermore, it
seems necessary to admit that our receptive apparatus, ‘tuned
in’ as it were and directed bythe representation ofthe object,
receives directly from the distant object itself a capital ray.
When a photo is examined we want to know whether the
1 86
TELEDIAGNOSIS
pendulum indicates the actual state of the person or his state
at the time when the photo was taken. In point of fact the
pendulum indicates the state of the person at the very moment
when the camera registered the photo. Moreover, taking this
as a basis for further investigation, it is possible to detect the
present state of health of the person, for example, whether well
or ill, living or dead.
Whatever importance is attached to theories, they must not
be allowed to let us forget facts. For many years now a signi­
ficant fact has been established and that is that radiesthetic
detection by means of photos can be effected and many experi­
menters have done so with complete success.
I have sometimes been asked if a horse is likely to win a
certain race. The pendulum can indicate the state of physical
vigour o f horses but it is evident that it cannot predict the
future,
2 . CASES OF DIAGNOSIS BY MEANS OF PHOTOGRAPHS
It is extraordinary that you are able to detect certain
organic diseases by means of photographs. In one of the
photos where you had diagnosed ‘ 8 cavities’ it was indeed
a case of multiple pulmonary cavities of a non-tuberculous
nature, as you had definitely stated.
(Signed) Dr Stephani, Montana (Switzerland).
12th December 1927.
I duly received your reply as well as the photograph I had
sent you as a guide for detecting my gold-stopped teeth.
The place you indicated was quite right. I have two teeth,
both gold-stopped, next to the canine tooth on the left
side, and only there.
I must thank you for your kind reply and I assure you
that I will not fail to show this proof of your science of
Radiesthesia whenever the opportunity occurs.
(Signed) Albert Guillaume, Nimes (France).
18th May 1932.
187
Your ability to find water and to make a distant diagnosis
is really astonishing.
May I ask you, just to confound the critics, to indicate
on the enclosed document how many scars I have, and
also where, and how many teeth?
(Signed) R. Chauvet, Engineer, Morges (Switzerland).
lgth February l 932.
I want to thank you and congratulate you most warmly.
The indications you gave are absolutely correct. I have
three scars which you indicated exactly. And as for teeth,
I have lost three on each side as stated.
Again thanking you, etc.
R .C.
3. A CASE OF DIAGNOSIS BY MEANS OF SIGNATURE
A friendly mayor, M Veron, of La Combe, had got in touch
with me about finding some water for his locality of Saint-
Didier-en-Velay. But after a short time our correspondence
suddenly came to an end. W hy did he stop writing to me?
Had the idea been given up? At last, an explanation came. He
had been laid up. Wishing to make sure that it was not a
diplomatic excuse, I wrote to the mayor telling him that he
should look after himself for, judging by his signature, he had
been suffering from an affection which I clearly indicated to
him and from which he had not yet recovered. 1 also advised
him to mention certain details to the doctor who was treating
him. Incidentally, this doctor happened to be very sceptical
about anything connected with Radiesthesia, and particularly
pendular diagnosis.
When the doctor came to see him again, the mayor showed
him my letter which he read with some indignation. ‘You
have no confidence in me, then’ , he said, ‘since you have decided
to consult a dowsing quack.’ The mayor protested that he
had not consulted me but only told me that he had not been
feeling too well and therefore had not been able to write as
188
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TELEDIAGNOSIS
usual, adding that the last letter he had sent me had been
typed and all I had from his own hand was his signature.
A few days later, the doctor himself paid me a visit at Jussy
and admitted having been dumbfounded by the case of the
mayor at Saint-Didier. He asked me if I would be willing to
carry out an experiment in his presence. He wanted to know
what I thought about the state of health of a young man whose
photograph he showed me and who was closely connected
with his family.
I made an examination on the photograph of the whole body
of the young man in question, pointing out the wreak spots, and
when it was over (after about two minutes) the doctor said
frankly: ‘I would not have believed it possible but I do now
for I can’t ignore facts. Everything you have told me is absol­
utely correct. You have even pointed out two things to which
I had not paid much attention, but which I know to be per­
fectly true.’
A few days later, his sister-in-law called on me with a letter
from him asking me to make a pendular diagnosis in the hope
of detecting the cause of a complaint which ordinary methods
of diagnosis had failed to trace. This was duly done.
I have in my
doctors admitting the accuracy of my diagnosis in cases they
had sent me for examination.
4. CASES OF DISTANT DIAGNOSIS
WITHOUT ANY MATERIAL CONTACT
Stockholm. One day, in November 1934, a humorous colleague,
Abbe Stuckelberger, came to see me and asked me if I had
any news about his niece. (I learnt later that he wanted to put
me to the test.) I enquired if he had a photograph, a letter or
anything that his niece had worn or touched. He said he had
not. I then informed him I could not tell him anything as I
was not a clairvoyant. ‘A h ,’ he replied, ‘but according to
you, distance is of no account in radiesthetic detection, and
also you have a physical thing you can use as a starting point —
189
possession a large file of testimonials from
my brain. Try and get into contact with my niece through my
brain!’
I was taken aback by this strange request but I asked him
to close his eyes and concentrate his attention on his niece.
A minute later I told him that his niece was at a distance
of about i , 600 kilometres to the North of Geneva, and was
sitting, at that moment, and that she was suffering from heart
trouble.
All these details proved to be correct. The niece was in
Stockholm (which is about 1,600 kilometres from Geneva);
she was suffering from heart trouble, and at the time, 3.30 p.m .,
she was sitting and knitting.
Poitiers, Nantes. A journalist in Poitiers, to whom I told the
above story, asked me if I could tell him where his father was
and what he was doing at that moment. I informed him that
his father was at a distance of about 320 metres from where
we were, in a direction I indicated with my hand, and that he
was lying down with his head pointing to the East, suffering
from rheumatism.
The journalist admitted in the presence of three local
councillors that all these details were absolutely correct.
In the same way as in the case of my colleague’s niece, I
asked the journalist to concentrate his attention on his father.
Another journalist had a similar experience a few days later
when he came to see me.
Needless to say that these two sceptics were thoroughly
convinced.
Jussy. One day, one of my parishioners called on me in a state
of great distress. She wanted me to tell her where her husband
was and whether he was well or not. He had been away three
days working in his own part of the country and his return was
overdue. As he was not in the best of health his wife feared
that something serious had happened to him. I asked her to
concentrate hard on her husband. I was able to reassure her at
once and tell her that her husband was at Ballaison, working
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TELEDIAGNOSIS
near a house, and that there was no reason to worry about
his health. The same evening, this woman came back smiling
and told me her husband had just returned home, and that at
the time she was visiting me lie was actually working in his
garden near the house.
What is the explanation? As the science of psychology is still
in its infancy, one can only put forward certain hypotheses.
But it would seem that one is not far from the truth in accept­
ing the following hypotheses.
Thought is indeed an act of pure intelligence; but the brain
is the ‘instrumental condition’ of thought, and thought cannot
be elaborated unless the cerebral cells enter into a state of
vibration. Now it is precisely the waves emitted by these
vibrations that the pendulum detects, and that it follows, so
to speak, to the end of the thread —that is to say, to the end
of the wave. Just as it is possible to detect at a distance a mass
of gold, coal, or a water stream, together with the particular
conditions accompanying them, because the waves emanating
from them establish a contact between the material mass and
the brain, so, it would seem, a living being (as well as an
inanimate object) reveals himself to the investigator’s brain
through the waves emitted by his organism, and quite irre­
spective of distance.
In Geneva we can hear an orchestra playing in Paris, just as
well as if it were playing in front of us.
Thus the process of ‘thought-reading’ , which has long been
regarded as a dangerous and mysterious occult phenomenon,
is nothing but a physical and natural function of the human
brain when it manifests itself under the conditions we have
indicated.
On a certain occasion, I asked a colleague of mine to think
of one of five things which 1 mentioned to him (I said five to
facilitate the work). They w ere: gold, silver, coal, copper
and potatoes.
Holding my pendulum over his head to pick up the cerebral
wave needed in this experiment, I was able to tell him that
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
he was thinking about some copper at a distance of about 200
metres away and in a certain direction which I indicated,
pointing towards his own church. He replied: ‘Yes, indeed,
I was thinking of my copper candelabra on the altar of my
church’ (which was situated at a distance of 200 metres from
where we were).
£ . REMEDIES ARE EVERYWHERE WITHIN OUR REACH
Out of all the knowledge we have acquired through Radics-
thesia we wish to draw attention, in passing, to the following
fact: a remedy may be found quite near the sufferer. If suffer­
ing came into the world, with sin, God, in His mercy, has
ordained that, on the physical plane, as on the supernatural
plane, a remedy should be placed quite near the sufferer,1 One
example out of a hundred may be given.
I w'as walking across the countryside one day when a doctor
w'ho was with me complained of a certain malaise and de­
plored our being so far away from any chemist. I told him that
in the country we always have a chemist nearby. The pendu­
lum indicated that at a distance of about 10 metres, in a
certain direction, there was an efficacious remedy for the
doctor’s trouble. The plant indicated by the pendulum was
duly found and used. A few hours later the doctor congratu­
lated the pendulist on his brilliant idea. The remedy was
found solely by pendular ‘syntonisation’ which has been re­
ferred to before.
6. IMPORTANT NOTE ON PENDULAR DIAGNOSIS
On such a delicate subject one cannot express one’s views too
1 In this connection, there is a striking passage in the Bible to the effect that
‘The Lord hath made medicines out of the earth ; and he that is wise will not abhor
them.’ (Ecclesiasticus, Ch. 38, v. 4.)
This was written several centuries b .c. and it is remarkable that Radiesthesia in
the twentieth century of our era has proved that it is literally and absolutely true.
Though Abb£ Mermet in our time was a pioneer in this form of treatment
mentioned in the Bible, he had neither the leisure nor the inclination to specialise
in what is technically known as ‘phytotherapy’ , that is to say treatment by means
of medicinal plants. Inspired by his example and results, two of his fellow-priests,
Abbe Kunzle and Father Rourdoux, a missionary, became radiesthetists and phyto­
therapists of great renown. (Trans.)
192
TELEDIAGNOSIS
clearly for I do not wish to be misunderstood. Let me stress
the fact that pendular diagnosis must be exclusively reserved
for doctors who, after a long course of studies, have acquired
the necessary knowledge of the human body and the right of
curing disease. But as Pasteur, who was not a doctor, made
his great discovery of microbes which revolutionised m edicine;
as Roentgen, also not a doctor, gave the medical profession
his famous X-rays, and Curie gave them radium; and as all
doctors are constantly making use of the w ork and discoveries
of physicists, chemists, biologists, physiologists, who do not
belong to the medical profession, why should they hesitate to
adopt, after rigorous tests, a new means of diagnosis, most
valuable by virtue o f its rapidity, precision and harmlessness ?
Is it not in the interests of their patients, and consequently in
their own interests?
O f course, I do not advocate pendular diagnosis as an ex­
clusive method aiming at replacing all others but only as a
means of control giving supplementary knowledge and based
on different principles.
Just as a doctor takes into account an X-ray photograph
taken by a radiographer, or a biological analysis made by an
expert, so, too, would he derive great advantage in considering
a diagnosis made by radiesthetic examination. It should be a
rule that a trained radiesthetist must be regarded as a medical
auxiliary. N .B. Let it be clearly understood that when I refer
to any diagnosis of a man, child or animal, it is always the
result of a strictly scientific experiment.
7 . FURTHER CASES OF TELEDIAGNOSIS
The following cases, taken at random, out of a great number
of others about which I was consulted, always with the authorisa­
tion or collaboration of a doctor, show, perhaps better than any
argument, the great advantage that doctors would gain by
using the method of pendular diagnosis.
I should like to express my deep gratitude for the advice
193
N
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
you gave me. A few months ago, you told me, contrary
to the opinion of several doctors in Geneva and in La
Roche, that my appendix was affected. I was then being
treated for liver trouble, but recently an operation for
removing m y appendix had to be performed as you had
advised. It showed that it had been in a bad state for a
long time.
Again thanking you, etc.
(Signed) M .E .G ., La Roche-sur-Foron (Haute-Savoie).
22nd May ipyy.
. . . It is almost unnecessary to tell you that your diagnosis,
based solely on a specimen of handwriting, about the
actual state of m y daughter, is marvellously correct. My
doctor cannot understand it ! It is astounding!
(Signed) Georges Luy, La Madeleine, Rue Jean-Bart (Nord).
24th October 1934.
The little patient who attracted your kind interest has
been X-rayed and underwent an operation. One of the
kidneys, affected by tuberculosis, was removed, in
accordance with the diagnosis you had indicated.
If I have been slow in thanking you it is because I
wanted to give you this particular detail which confirms
what you had discovered by distant detection.
(Signed) Sister Marie de l ’Euch, Carmel de l ’lmmaculee-
Conception, Albi. 29th July 1934.
. . . I have been feeling very much better, especially
during the last ten days. But, you may say, how can you
be sure? Simply by putting your lessons into practice,
with the pendulum. This means of diagnosis is never
misleading.
(Signed) Dr Imbert, par Mezel (Puyde-Dome).
Saint-Bonnet-es-Allier. llth October 1933.
This case concerns a patient who refused to believe that the
pendular diagnosis of his own doctor was right as he felt dis-
194
TELEDIAGNOSIS
inclined to have a certain treatment which he thought was
too strict.
. . . But it appears that your diagnosis coincided exactly
with that of the doctor, Dr Simonetti, of Echallens . . .
(Signed) M. R. Laurent Fribourg (Switzerland)
. . . Perhaps you may be interested to know that the
headmistress of the school, about whom the doctor had
consulted you, is very pleased with what you have told
her. The doctor entirely agrees with you.
(Signed) Lacroix. 4 Avenue Jean-Jaures, Oyonnax (Ain).
In a letter, which I cannot reproduce, dated 29th July 19 35,
M Emile Marziou of Kerfeunten-Guipavas (Finist&re), tells
me of a case where Radiesthesia proved to be better than
radiography. My pendulum had indicated ‘kidney affected’
while the radiographer had said ‘kidney normal’ . Some time
later, it was found necessary to operate on the ‘normal’
1 will conclude this short selection of testimonials, to which
I could add a great many more, with a letter from His Eminence
Cardinal Binet.
I was greatly interested in your pendular diagnosis made
at a distance concerning someone who is dear to me.
I take this opportunity of asking you to be kind enough
to consider the case of an excellent non-commissioned
officer in Besan^on who is greatly distressed about his
wife whose photograph I am enclosing on his behalf.
(Signed) Henri, Cardinal Binet, Archbishop o f Besangon.
195
XXI TRACING MISSING PERSONS
I . PROCEDURE
T
HERE are several methods but I shall confine myself to *
my own method.
I require three things, i. A photograph of the missing
person; or an object he has touched or worn (tie,-handker­
chief, hairs, etc.). 2. A plan on which is indicated the house
he has left, or wherever he was seen fo r the last time. 3. A
map of the region so as to be able eventually to follow his
track.
First of all, one has to detect the radiations of the missing
person, either from the object he has touched, or from a
photograph. It is essential to study very carefully these
‘irradiated’ objects for, besides the personal figure, which
may be the same for many people, the radiations possess an
individual character derived from the personality itself.
Furthermore, a competent radiesthetist must study, on a
recent photograph, the physical characteristics (health or dis­
ease) of the missing person. For example, heart trouble may
be detected. The radiations of various articles of clothing
must also be detected (hat, underclothing, shoes, etc.) and it
is highly improbable that another person, having the same
personal figure, will show the same organic defects and wear
the same clothes of the same colour and origin.
Having acquired all this information, and after adapting his
receptive apparatus to the various indications given, the radies­
thetist can then start his ‘survey of the horizon’ , gradually
extending the zone of his exploration but without moving
from the place where he happens to be standing.
The places the missing person passed through retain his
radiations for a certain time while he himself continues to emit
his own waves. When the left hand, used as a kind of mobile
antenna, meets this capital ray, the pendulum moves and gives
the figure of the missing person. When the direction has been
196
TRA CIN G MISSING PERSONS
found, the estimated distance is as previously indicated in the
chapter on prospecting with the pendulum.
In order to determine accurately the exact position, 1
repeat the same operation from other positions of observation,
thus obtaining a number o f intersections that converge on one
point.
2. A TRIBUTE FROM GENEVA
Under the title of ‘Quelques verites sur la Radiesthesie’, M
Raoul Montandon, of Geneva, President of la Societe d ’Etudes
Psychiques and author of, among others, the excellent
w ork, entitled Radiations Humaines, w rote in the Tribune de
Geneve, 6 th December 1 9 3 5 , about a certain number of missing
persons 1 had traced and made the following interesting
observations:
Most great discoveries were not made by men holding
diplomas and belonging to various academies. Claude
Bernard, to whom biology and physiology are indebted
for much progress, was not a medical man. Raspail, who
was one of the first to realise the beneficial effects of
hydrotherapy, had to fight all his life against official
opposition.
The science of Radiesthesia, of recent origin, is being
constantly attacked. Any value it may have is denied
because the man who laid down its fundamental principles
is not a physicist, chemist, mathematician, nor a physician.
He is, in fact, a simple priest, Abbe M ermet, whose
renown has reached far beyond the limits of his small
country parish of Jussy (Switzerland) and has spread
throughout the world. Already, when he was at Saint-
Prex, where he played an important part in improving the
conditions of the workers in the glass industry established
there, his studies on the great possibilities of Radiesthesia
had attracted the attention o f research workers and the
interest of the general public.
1 9 7
Readers of the Tribune de Geneve have already had the
opportunity to know something of the results of Abbe
M erm et’s w ork, either in prospecting for springs of pure
water, or in the detection of diseases or missing persons.
W e here give factual evidence (in the original article),
proving the value o f the science of Radiesthesia, as
applied by Abbd M erm et, and enabling one to foresee its
promising future.
3 . CASES OF MISSING PERSONS TRACED BY RADIESTHESIA
093S-6)
In previous editions of the present work I thought it advisable
to omit mentioning certain facts and names. But the comments
of some carping critics, clinging to their own preconceived
ideas, have compelled me to mention at least a few names of
the many persons concerned in connection with my researches.
I could also give a great number of other names to those who
are sceptically-minded.
Epileptic Girl
A widowed mother wrote to me in May 1 9 3 3 about her young
daughter who was missing. By way of documentation, she sent
me her photograph and a few illustrated postcards of the
neighbourhood, explaining that her daughter, suffering from
epilepsy, had gone out one day and had not been seen since.
After having examined the documents in question, I was
reluctantly compelled to tell the poor widow that her daughter
was dead and her body lay beneath a precipice, 3 0 metres
from the top, at the place marked with a cross on one of the
postcards.
A few days later, I received the following letter:
My poor daughter has been found. On 4 th May last she
was buried. It wras a Christian burial which she deserved.
This great consolation I owe to you. Your indications
ensured the success o f our search. The body of my
1 9 8
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
daughter was found at the bottom of the precipice, as
you had indicated, and she must have fallen while having
an epileptic fit.
W ith my most sincere thanks.
(Signed) Elise Duay, Trasuruj, Orsieres (V alais), Switzer­
land. 13th May 1^33.
Missing Man Found
Extract from the Courrier de Geneve, April 19 35, entitled
‘ Abb6 Mermet’s latest exploit: Missing man found.’
At the beginning of April, an engineer from Lyons dis­
appeared while travelling on business, without leaving
the least indication that he had committed suicide.
That morning, as usual, he had gone to his office where
he had to write an important report. At midday, he went
back home for lunch, and in the afternoon he took his
little daughter to see the doctor; and no-one noticed
anything abnormal about him at the time. Towards 4
o’clock he got into his car and drove in the direction of
Valence. He stopped in that charming town and went to
a restaurant where he usually dined, and left his car
there. Then he disappeared. The family soon noticed
his absence, and did everything they could to find the
missing man, but all in vain. Some of his relatives went
to see Abb6 Mermet in order to elucidate this mysterious
and unexpected disappearance.
After having examined a photograph of the missing
man, and with a map of the region, Abb6 Mermet gave
a complete description of how the man had walked
through certain streets in Valence and had come to the
river Rhone, where he must have fallen in. He indicated
the course the body took downstream as far as Aramon
(Gard) where it had become lodged for the time being.
(A curious fact is that Abb6 Mermet stated that the man
was no longer in possession of his mental faculties at the
time he left his car in Valence.)
1 9 9
W ith this information, his relatives immediately under­
took a thorough search which resulted in the discovery
of the body.
Madame Chaproz, the man’s sister-in-law, wrote the follow­
ing letter to Abbe M erm et:
I recently came to see you with M Mure to find out,
through your science of Radiesthesia, what had happened
to my brother-in-law who had been missing since 23 rd
March last.
With absolute precision and certainty, you told us
what his mental state was at the time of his leaving home,
then his itinerary through Valence, where he had left his
car, to the river Rhone, and you indicated where he
must have fallen into the water. Then you also indicated
the course taken by the body in the river, and clearly
marked the place (Vivier, Ardeche), where he was to be
found at the time we were speaking to you.
All this was unfortunately very accurate, and your
science is indeed providential.
The body was recovered on 3th April at Aramon
(Gard). I went there to identify it on 9th April.
On behalf of the whole family, I wish to thank you for
your invaluable help.
(Signed) A. Marie Chaproz, Lyons. 13th April 1934.
Another Missing Man Found
(Extract from the Republican Landais, 26th January 19 33.)
After having mentioned several successful cases of distant
prospection, the writer added:
Searching for missing persons is a very curious under­
taking. W ith the pendulum, it has been possible to follow
the passage through the air and over a mountain of a
child carried away by an eagle, and also to follow the
course of the body of a man in a river over a distance of
J
several miles from the place where it had fallen in.
200
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
In this connection, science can give an explanation, for
it seems that everything takes place as if the radiations
impressed their mark wherever a man or body passes.
Let us mention, by way of convincing those who are
sceptical, that we have had the occasion of putting
Radiesthesia to the test.
Last November, an inhabitant of Mont-de-Marsan dis­
appeared without leaving any traces. Had he lost his way?
Had he been murdered or drowned? No-one knew.
W e decided to consult Abbe Mermet and sent him a
photograph and a plan indicating the last place where the
missing man had been seen.
After some correspondence about regional topography,
and difficulties connected with obtaining a sufficiently
detailed plan of Mont-de-Marsan, Abbe Mermet informed
us that the missing person w ould be found in the Midouze
river, at a depth of 2-yo metres, and at a place marked
on the plan. This information was actually written down
at Jussy at 4.30 a.m. In the afternoon of the same day,
the body was found in the river, not far away from the
point indicated, from which it must have been displaced.
The letter giving this information reached us too late
for making the necessary researches, but the facts stated
were so obviously accurate that the faculty of tracing
missing persons by distant prospection with a pendulum
appears to be an indisputable fact.
Radiesthesia goes on making progress from day to day.
It is to be hoped that it will soon become an exact science
which will be taught like any other important subject.
The results obtained by Abbe Mermet prove that he is
a great exponent of a wonderful art.
(Signed) Jean Lacoste.
Drowned Girl
On 27th April 1 93 g, I was approached by the parents of a
young girl of 13 who had been missing for some time from
201
Romaneche (Seine-et-Loire). With a photograph and a map
of the region I was able to inform the parents that their
daughter must have fallen into the river near the bridge at
Thoissey, and that, in my opinion, her body would be found
at that place, having become lodged in a bush.
At that time the river Saone had risen so high that a search
could not be undertaken. But, on 7th April, the girl’s body
was recovered very near the place I had indicated, and actually
lodged in a willow-bush.
Missing Girl Found Living
In February 19 35, the parents of a girl who had been missing
in the town of Suresnes wrote to me asking me to help them
to find her. Someone said he had seen her go into the town
hall. I replied that the girl was alive and that she would be
found in a certain part of the town, having passed through a
certain street, and that, contrary to the report that she had
been seen going into the town hall, I could find no indication
that she had done so.
The girl was eventually found near the place indicated. The
woman who was greatly concerned about her wrote saying
that she had been found in the part of the town I had indicated
on a map, and confirmed my statement that she had never gone
near the town hall.
Missing Young Man Found Living
On 31st January 193^, Madame B., of Verdier, par Castelnau
de Montmiral (Tarn), wrote me a distressing letter about the
disappearance of her son, aged 26.
Having been given only the beret of the young man by way
of a clue, I told his mother that her son was alive and that I
had traced him to Toulouse, where he had gone after a nervous
breakdown, and that she should not give up hope of seeing
him come back home.
On n th February I received the following letter: ‘I don’t
know how to thank you for having found our dear son. Yes,
indeed, he is now with us again. On the day that we received
202
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
your letter, a relation of ours phoned us to say that our son
was with some friends in Toulouse, and that they were making
arrangements for his return home,
‘ As you said, he had a nervous breakdown. W e are now
going to look after him so that he may be restored to health
as speedily as possible.
‘Again thanking you, etc. (Signed) Mme B .’
Drowned Husband
I fear I am late in thanking you for what you have done
for us. I had asked you if you could tell us what had
happened to my husband who had disappeared without
leaving any traces of his whereabouts. After examining
his photograph you replied that you were certain he was
no longer alive and that he had fallen into the river Allier
at a place you indicated.
Two days before your letter arrived, the body of my
poor husband had been found in the river, a little lower
down than the place indicated, stretched out on the sand
where the current had driven it.
In my bereavement, I want to thank you and congratu­
late you on your clear indications which proved to be
only too sadly true.
(Signed) Mme G ., Au Rirage, Mornay-sur-V Allier (Cher).
Drowned Rescuer
I have the sad satisfaction, as well as the duty, of thanking
you for your indications which enabled us to recover the
body of my unfortunate son who was drowned in the
Garonne river on 14th April last, by the weir of Beaure­
gard, near Agen, while trying to rescue some of his
companions in danger.
When you told us that you could see him by the weir,
held down in a hole, we asked a diver to search for him.
As soon as it was possible a part of the weir was diverted
and the diver was about to start his operations when
owing to a sudden change in the direction of the current,
203
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
the body was seen floating on the surface, not far from
where the accident occurred, and confirming your indi­
cation that it had been held down in the weir.
W e give you full permission to make any use of this
letter you may think fit in the interests of science.
Again thanking you, etc.
(Signed) M. Campistron, 23 Rue des 36-Ponts, Toulouse.
26th May 1933.
Case of Suicide
Rorschach (Saint-Gall, Switzerland)
The superintendent of an institution for homeless girls in
the town wrote me on 3rd June 19 35 informing me of the
disappearance of one of her girls. As usual, in such a case, I
asked for a photograph of the missing person and a plan of the
town showing the situation of the institution. With these
documents I was able to tell Sister Aloysia that the young girl
had gone out by a certain door, passed through certain streets,
and finally drowned herself in the lake at the place indicated.
On 17th June Sister Aloysia wrote me (a fortnight later)
that a search had been made in the lake, at the place indicated,
and that the body of the young girl had been recovered at that
very place.
Another Drowning
Courbevoie (Seine)
M Narbot, 2 Rue Lcon-Boursier, in a letter dated 19th
January 1936, informed me that a missing person whom he
asked me to search for, had been found, as 1 had told him, in
the river Seine. ‘For your own information I must tell you
that taking the time when your letter was written into con­
sideration, your indication seems to have been absolutely
correct.
‘The body was recovered on Thursday morning at 8 o ’clock.
I think that it must have been swept from the place where
it was lodged towards 7 o ’clock in the morning, and was
then driven down by the current.’
204
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
M Narbot then tells how his son, who had attended one of
my lectures at Rennes, said he himself was going to start
searching, and how, in the presence of Dr F. and his family, he
had, without realising it, indicated the exact place where the
body was found (Austerlitz Bridge).
Missing Girl Found Drowned
The well-known journal Tribune de Genive (6th December
1 93 J) published the following account: ‘ On 30th September
193 g, a young man from La Cbaux-de-Fonds went to Jussy and
told Abbe Mermet that his sister had been missing for four
days and that the police and the friends of the family bad been
searching for her in vain.
‘ The only photograph he had brought with him was one of
a family group taken when his sister was only eight years old.
When she disappeared she was aged twenty. And he had
brought no plan or map with him. But the Abbe knew the
canton of Neuchatel. He took his bearings mentally without
the aid of a map, which is an amazing feat. He was then able
to tell the young man that his sister was dead and would be
found under water at a depth of 2-30 metres, but he could
not yet indicate the place with any degree .of precision. The
young man told him she had last been seen in Neuchatel. It
was a useful piece of information and the Abbe concentrated
his attention on Neuchatel as a starting point. There he found
the radiations of the young girl and followed them as far as
Serriere which is about 2 miles away from Neuchatel. Finally,
he concluded: “ Your sister drowned herself in the lake
opposite the inflow of the Seyon river and her body is at a
distance of about 4 metres from the bank.” He added that she
had been ailing since she was eight years old. Her sympathetic
nervous system wr
as affected and she had had convulsions
dating back to early infancy. She gradually became neuras­
thenic and dming an acute crisis she committed her fatal act.
She had lost control of her mental faculties.
‘ The young man returned home the same evening. The next
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
day, he and his relatives went to Serriere and found the body
of the unfortunate girl a little farther away than the place
indicated where the current had swept it. ’
Another Drowning
A lady, Mme A . K ., wrote to me begging me to help her to
find her husband who had been missing for three days. By way
of documentation, she sent me a photograph and a postcard
showing a cafe where her husband had last been seen.
I replied that her husband wr
as drowned, and I indicated
the way he had taken on the road alongside the Rhone river. I
also marked his passage through the village of Massongex,
which seemed at first to be improbable.
The unfortunate widow, in a letter thanking me for my help
in tracing her missing husband, said that, after making en­
quiries, it appeared that he had actually passed through the
village of Massongex, on the evening of his disappearance,
between 8 and 9 o’clock.
Missing Soldiers
In February 193s, several soldiers on military manoeuvres on
the Mont-Cenis, near Modane, were buried under an avalanche
of snow.
In this connection I had the honour of receiving a letter
from General Cartier, of which I give here the following
extract: ‘You have been so obliging and have acted so quickly
in helping us in our laborious searches that I have been induced
to come again and consult you. My first sketch, drawn from
memory, enabled us, thanks to your precise indications, to
recover the body of the last missing soldier, Castella, of
Samoens. (Signed) General Cartier, 53rd Brigade Alpine Infantry,
Man Missing through Accident
On 13th March 1936, I received a letter from a heartbroken
woman whose father had fallen into a stream and whose body
had been searched for unsuccessfully.
By means of a photograph of the missing man and a plan of
206
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
the place from which he had disappeared, 1 was able to deter­
mine the sequence of events of the accident in question. I
followed up his track in the water and the body was recovered
at the place I had duly indicated.
The following letter confirmed my findings.
W e cannot be sufficiently grateful to you for the indica­
tions you were good enough to give us about the disappear­
ance of my poor father. His body has just been recovered
from the stream, at the place you had indicated. And the
depth was just as you had indicated, i -8o metre. Thanks
to your great ability for tracing missing persons, we have
been spared a great deal of suffering and anxiety.
Again thanking you for all you have done for us.
(Signed) Mme Bemichon, Chamonix. 30ih March ig j6 .
Missing Cow Found
Seytroux (Haute-Savoie)
On 26th September 19 3 s , a cow belonging to a widow,
Mme Veronique Butet, and sent to M A. Rosset for the
summer, had disappeared while grazing on the mountain side.
After an unsuccessful .search, M Rosset decided to have
recourse to the pendulum and came to see me at Jussy,
carrying the cow’s headstall, but without a plan of the moun­
tain or of the grazing land. I helped him to make a rough sketch
of the site in question, and after the radiations of the lost cow
were taken from the headstall, I was able to inform M Rosset
that while the cow was grazing on the mountain side, she
strayed away from the herd, and went on grazing up to a
certain place where suddenly she fell into a precipice 100
metres deep. I could feel that she was lying there with her
four feet in the air.
M Rosset resumed his searching, accompanied by two local
peasants, as he did not know that part of the countryside very
well and had no idea of the existence of that precipice (which
incidentally would rule out any possibility of thought trans­
mission).
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
207
At the bottom of the precipice indicated, the cow was duly
found with her four feet literally in the air!
J
A Strange Disappearance
In March 1936 Le Journal published the following article:
Rennes, 14th March — An inspector of the well-known
firm ‘Messageries Hachette’ in Paris, M Foubert, living
in Rennes, went in the course of his professional duties
to Bourges on i$th January, and has been missing since
that date.
His wife had recourse to Radiesthesia to trace her
missing husband. Abbe Mermet w'as consulted and an­
nounced that the inspector had been murdered and his
body thrown into the river Cher; then it had drifted into
the river Loire, and was now to be found in the sea, near
St Nazaire.
But these indications did not tally wdth an account
given by a young lady-librarian, Mile Chauvin, who
thought she had seen the man a few days ago. She had
kept silent until then but today she was emphatic in
saying that she was not mistaken for she knew M Foubert
who was her inspector. She went on to give a description
of what he was wearing at the time and carrying in his
hands. She was so surprised to see him that she had no
time to speak to him and he walked out of her sight.
Questioned by Mme Foubert on the possibility of
having made a mistake, Abbe Mermet said that unfortun­
ately he could hold out no hope of M Foubert being still
alive and felt certain he had been murdered.
A few days later, the unfortunate woman wrote to
Abbe Mermet informing him that the account of the
lady-librarian had proved to be w rong.
Child carried away by an Eagle
This is an extraordinary case which is worth recording, and
the Tribune de Geneve published an article about it, on 28th
208
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
March 1934, under the following heading: ‘ Disappearance of
a child explained by Teleradiesthesia.’
Last autumn (1933) at Miege (Valais, Switzerland), a boy,
aged 6, son of M M. L. Baloz, disappeared without
leaving any traces of his whereabouts. After having made
an unsuccessful search for the boy, carried out by some
of the villagers, the local mayor wrote to Abbe Mermet,
on behalf of the parents, requesting him to help them to
find the boy.
Having made a study of the circumstances of the case in
question, Abbe Mermet announced that the boy had been
carried away by a bird of prey, presumably an eagle, into
the mountains. He also indicated the span of its wings
and two places where the eagle had dropped its heavy
load to regain strength.
At the first place indicated, no trace of the boy could
be found. And a heavy snowfall prevented any searching
operation at the second place. The conclusion was that
Abbe Mermet had been mistaken.
But, a fortnight later, the snow having disappeared, a
gang of woodcutters found, at the place indicated by the
Abbe, the body of the boy, partly mangled and torn. It
would seem that the eagle had been unable to go on
savaging the boy’s body owing to a heavy snowfall.
According to observations made on the site, the boy’s
clothes and shoes had not come into contact with the
ground, and it is clear that only a powerful eagle could
have carried the boy away up to the mountain heights,
which were not easily accessible, and where his body was
found.
On 1 8th March 1934, the boy’s father, M M. L. Baloz,
wrote to the Abbe Mermet as follows: ‘Now that the body
of my poor boy has been recovered, it is our duty to thank you
for so kindly helping us and giving us such precise information.
‘ Everything has been confirmed. It is now certain, as you
209
o
said in your first letter, that the poor boy was carried away by
an eagle which did not stop in its flight until it reached the
mountain heights at the two places you had indicated, and
where the body was eventually found. It was also observed
that the boy’s clothes were as clean as they were on the
morning of his disappearance. You wrere the only person who
really knew and understood what had taken place. Please for­
give us if we appeared to be very doubtful about your indica­
tions. Several eyewitnesses in Sierre declared having seen, on
the same day, an enormous eagle flying in a direction towards
the North.
‘Again thanking you, etc. (Signed) L. Baloz’ .
The Montboron Murder Case
In October 1 9 3 3 , at Montbovon (Fribourg, Switzerland), a
young man had disappeared on returning from a village festivity.
Several groups o f men, searching thoroughly for nine days,
could find no traces of his passage anywhere. In despair, his
sister came to see m e, with a map of the region and a photo­
graph of the missing young man, together with a tie which he
had worn. Immediately I was able to give her the following
information: ‘First of all, the pendulum swinging over the
photograph gives the numerical figure of a dead person; your
brother is no longer alive. He followed a certain path (where
indeed he had been seen). At that place, I feel the presence of
your brother, whose height is 1-55 m etres (which was correct)
and whose body is carried on the shoulders o f another man,
about 1 - 7 0 metres tall. Your brother seems to have been stabbed
in the back and then thrown over a precipice by the roadside.
He must be at a certain place in the river of the Hongrin valley
where the rocky walls on each side are very close together and
where the water is about 4 metres deep.’
His sister then asked me whether theft might have been the
motive for the crim e. I replied that it was possible, in view of
the fact that her brother was carrying money at the time and
that I could detect no gold or silver on the body now.
2 1 0
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
Such were my indications given from the radiations detected
on the map of the region that the young man had gone through.
His sister, on behalf of the family, wrote me the following
testimonial: ‘I, the undersigned, having had first-hand know­
ledge of the wonderful detection work done by Abbe Memiet,
wish to make the following statements.
‘ i. In his rectory at Jussy (Switzerland), after having seen a
simple map (scale 1 :2$,ooo) of the Hongrin valley, without
any information from me, Abbe Mermet told me (a) The path
my brother followed on his return from Montbovon; (b) The
place where he had stopped. These two indications I was able
to verify and found them to be quite correct.
‘ 2. It was Abbe Mermet who was the first to state that my
brother had been murdered, pointing out that he had been
carried on the shoulders of a man whose height was about
1-70 metres, while that of my brother was only 1 metres,
which was quite accurate.
‘ 3. He also indicated the place, almost exactly, where my
brother’s body was to be found, a place where no-one had
thought of searching for him, that is to say in the Hongrin
river, in a whirlpool more than 4 metres deep.
‘4. M Pflug, clerk of the court, confirmed that Abbe Mer­
met was right when he said the victim had no longer any
gold or silver. Indeed, a few days later his empty purse was
found in the river Sarine.
‘My family wish to thank you publicly for all the help you
have given us. I repeat it is thanks to you that we have recovered
the body of my poor brother who had been missing for nine
days.
‘The medical autopsy, made the day after the recovery of
the body, showed that my brother had been attacked with a
knife, and then carried and thrown into the river.
‘Thanking you once again, and with all our gratitude.
(Signed) R. Krummenacher, Alliercs -sur-Montbobon (Grujere).
3rd November 1 9 3 3 .'
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
1 11
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
The Famous Case o f Nicole Marescot
I cannot end the series on missing persons found without men­
tioning the sad case of Nicole Marescot which was given so
much publicity at the time.
The truth about this case must be told in view of the false
rumours that were spread, inspired at times by sheer ignorance
but more often than not by a spirit of obvious hostility and
prejudice against Radiesthesia. And as I was then President of
the French and International Association of the Friends of
Radiesthesia, I had to bear the brunt of those attacks. The
following account appeared in the Journal de Chateau d’Oex, on
2 6 th November 1 9 3 ^ entitled ‘Abbe Mermet and the Marescot
case’ .
After a French writer had sent an article to the Tribune de
Genkve about the Marescot case, attacking Abbe Mermet,
the editor received the following letter: ‘Your corres­
pondent, M Marcel Rouff, refers to the Marescot case
as a great failure for Radiesthesia. This accusation is false
for the only radiesthetist worthy of the name who had
anything to do with the case in question was our esteemed
President, Abbe Mermet. And Abbe M ermet did not meet
with failure over that case. This is what actually took place.
As soon as Abbe Mermet had examined Nicole M arescot’s
photograph, he made the following statements: 1 . The
child was murdered. 2 . She was not drowned. 3 . She is
buried at a depth of 4 0 cm.
‘Now all this has been found to be quite correct when
the body was recovered.
‘ On 1 3 th October, Abbe M ermet, questioned about
the Marescot case, made some definite statements in the
course of a lecture given at Versailles to an audience of
some 8 0 0 people, in the presence of M gr M illot, Vicar
General of Versailles, and of Canon Lejeune, and their
Majesties the two ex-queens of Portugal. He repeated the
statements quoted above and added the following signi-
212
ficant detail: “ If the body of this unfortunate child is
ever recovered, it will not be found whole for all the
lower part of it is missing.”
‘Six days later, when the body was recovered, it was
actually found that the pelvis and the legs were missing.
‘The Abbe was then taken to task for not having indi­
cated the exact place where the body was to be found.
And the reason for this is as follows:
‘Six days after the murder, Abbe Mermet was asked by
a lawyer to undertake a search for the child. He said he
would do so oil condition that he was given three docu­
ments. i. A photograph of the child. 2. A detailed plan
of the town of Chaumont. 3. An exact description of the
place where the little girl was last seen.
‘The Marescot family sent a photograph and a plan of
the town of Chaumont which was represented by an area
of half a square inch. It was, of course, quite useless.
Abbe Mermet asked for a more detailed plan which wr
as
eventually sent to him but it was confined to the town of
Chaumont. On this plan Abbe Mermet succeeded in
locating two places: the first being where the child died
and the second where the body was put down temporarily.
Following up this second place the Abbe found the begin­
ning of a new track which he was unable to trace to the
end owing to the plan being too small. Again he asked for
a plan of the neighbouring region but unfortunately it
was impossible to get one as the maps of that part of the
country were out of print. On 5th June Abbe Mermet
was still waiting for the necessary document which would
have enabled him to continue his investigations but M
Marescot could not help him.
‘At that time, and for a fortnight before, the Press took
Abbe Mermet to task for his “ failure” , an impression
which, owing to ignorance of the facts or bad faith, pre­
vailed for some time.
‘ On 6th June, Abbe Mermet, being in Paris, called at
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
2 1 3
1
the Ordnance Survey Department of the Army and at the
Bibliotheque Nationale to see if he could get the map he
needed. At the Bibliotheque Nationale he found such a
map which enabled him to follow up his former track
farther but not to reach the final point as the map was
not sufficiently extensive. But the Abbe told the Marescot
family about the result of his latest investigation.
‘The little girl’s body was eventually recovered at a
place situated only a few metres outside the area shown
on the map in the Bibliotheque Nationale, along the
extension of the track indicated first by Abbe Mermet.
‘ Thus it is hardly fair to regard this result as a “ failure”
which it certainly was not.
‘ Moreover, in the course of last summer, Abbe Mermet
followed the traces of twenty missing persons, which he
indicated with great precision. These twenty cases, in
which complete success w'as achieved, were confirmed by
the relatives of the missing persons themselves.
‘I have in my possession the original letters of thanks
relating to all those cases and shall be glad to show them
to anyone expressing a desire to see them. (Signed) M.
Loeffler-Delachaux. (Author of Le Mecanisme de rintelli-
gence Vu Par Vexperience Graphohgique and La Grapholopie
Kadiesthetiquc.)’
4. EXTRACT FROM ‘ h OMOEOPATHIE M ODERNE’ ,
i s t J u l y 19 3 3 (see also page 89)
Abbe Mermet was at Saint-Prex in 1930, and the follow­
ing facts were discovered by means of distant prospection.
A woman in Lausanne (Switzerland) had received no
news from her adopted son who had been living in Paris
for some time. Several letters and a telegram brought no
reply. Feeling very worried, she sent Abbe Mermet a
sweater belonging to the young man. This enabled the
Abbe to detect certain radiations, and taking a map of
Paris he proceeded to make a search in the street indi-
214
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
TRACING MISSING PERSONS
cated as being that where the young man lived. He im­
mediately found the house in that street and found that
the young man had gone out. He then followed his track
in zigzags from one place to another as far as the quays of
the Seine river to the bridge of Maisons-Laffite where all
radiations disappeared. Guessing what had happened and
not wanting to give the woman a great shock, he informed
her that he could not trace the young man beyond that
bridge and advised her to notify the police. With this
information the police began their search by the first
weir below the bridge and there found the body of the
young man. . . .
One Saturday morning, Abbe Mermet received a ’phone
call asking him if he would be kind enough to trace a
factory foreman who had been missing for two days. He
said he would try provided he could have something that
the man had worn or touched as well as a map of the
region, both of which he duly received. W ithin a quarter
of an hour, Abbe Mermet was able to state that the fore­
man had disappeared from his house on his way to a
country inn, situated at Chatel-Cresuz, wr
here he had
gone in for a while. On coming out of it, he walked to­
wards a lake nearby where an electric power station had
been erected. A footbridge, 30 metres in length, led to
it on which the Abbe indicated the place from which the
man had fallen into the lake, adding that the body lay at
a depth of 8 metres, to the North of that point, about
10 metres away. Guided by these indications local
searchers found the body exactly at the place and depth
indicated, and the man’s call at the inn was also con­
firmed.
FINAL NOTE
By way of self-defence I am reproducing the text of two letters
as a direct answer to those who say and write that dowsers are
abnormal people, like mediums and fakirs, and that they are
m
s
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
incapable of checking their own experiments and still less of
teaching what they know.
When an eminent geologist was asked what he thought of
dowsers, he replied: ‘Ask me why a nightingale sings, and I
can only say that he obeys a law of Nature.’
(i). It is over a year since I read your wonderful book on
Radiesthesia.
At first, I was under the impression that you were a
humbug. But after a few experiments and with a thorough
study and understanding of your theories, I was astonished
at the accuracy of the results I obtained.
During the last year I have indicated 1 1 9 boring opera­
tions and all have proved to be successful, apart from a
few slight errors in the estimation of depth, not exceeding
10 per cent of the figures given.
This series of successes show s first of all that a dowser
is needed in our region, where I have gained a great
reputation, and also that your instructions and principles
are absolutely sound.
The work of prospecting on a plan, which you origin­
ated, will remain the greatest discovery ever made in
Radiesthesia. The world owes you a debt of gratitude for
having revealed your secrets to a vast number of Radies-
thetists who follow in your footsteps and admire your
integrity.
Personally, I wish to thank you for having opened up a
new field of activities for me which 1 find interesting and
absorbing,
(Signed) E. Mouchet, Foreman electrician, Belgian Railways,
Arlon (Belgium), y d August
(2). I have not written to you for a long time but mean­
while I have not been idle.
On eight occasions, prospecting for water according
to your method, in our notoriously arid region, I have
been entirely successful six times.
216
TRA CIN G MISSING PERSONS
As regards the other two unsuccessful operations, in
the first of them I made an error of judgment in mistaking
the shadow for the reality (a phenomenon which you call
the radiesthetic im age). And the other operation re­
mained unfinished owing to the impossibility of drilling
the rock which was too near the foundations of a church.
In short, I find that your method is thoroughly sound
and I have taught it to my fellow-missionaries. W e owe
you a debt of gratitude for working free of charge in the
missionary field.
I must now ask your advice as to whether I can start
boring operations in the hope of finding water on the site
shown in the enclosed sketch ( i : 5 0 0 ), and what depth and
output one may expect to find.
(Signed) Emile Pra, Missionary, Antsirabe (Madagascar).
14th April 1936.
217
CONCLUSION - MY TESTAMENT
AS A RADIESTHETIST
T
HE reader will now realise that, as I said in the Preface,
I have made my Testament as a radiesthetist.
I have revealed all my secrets, given all my formulae, in a
disinterested manner, which is perhaps not without merit
considering that my method is the result of forty years’ work,
forty years of successes and failures, of hopes and disappoint­
ments.
My activities as a radiesthetist were carried out as a sideline
apart from my pastoral ministry and were but a continuation
of those of my father who for over half a century was known as
‘the dowser of Savoie’ .
Could anyone be said to belong to mankind if, having
acquired a few scraps of knowledge, he were to shut himself
up in an ivory tower and refused to enlighten his fellow men?
Let everyone make his own contribution to the building of
the house of knowledge. And may I be permitted, in con­
cluding this work, to ask my contemporaries to study the
problems I have discussed in an objective manner and without
any bias, dispassionately, and in an atmosphere of courtesy ■
such as one would expect from cultured people.
It is natural that human intelligence should wish to under­
stand, to seek out causes and demand a satisfactory explanation
for strange phenomena. But when certain facts are discovered
which cannot be linked up with the findings of orthodox
science, what is one to do? Deny them? Ridicule those who
have discovered them ? Nothing is easier, but such an attitude
is neither fair nor scientific.
Science came into being long after natural laws and must
remain subject to them. It has the right and the duty of
recording facts and accepting them only after strict control
has confirmed them. But Science must not stifle them, nor
attempt to invent them. Man would have made very little
218
progress if he had always refused to consider what he did not
understand.
If new facts cannot be made to fit into classical frameworks,
thus compelling Science to reconsider its fundamental con­
cepts, that is nothing to be deplored. Science must, with due
modesty, evolve its theories on the basis of established facts
and not adapt, to ready-made theories, facts that contradict
them.
In the domain of Science, explanations that are generally
accepted are only valid until a certain number of facts incom­
patible with them show their inadequacy.
What should one do then? It seems that the only really
scientific attitude would be, in the absence of any explanation
_today, to prepare the explanation of tomorrow. But in order
to do so, it is incumbent upon radiesthetists to submit their
experiments to the strictest control and allow scientists to
collect factual evidence that will constitute a sound scientific
basis.
This sum total of experiments will perhaps enable those
more competent than I, owing to the experience gained from
their forerunners, to discover the laws governing the pheno­
mena we have been considering.
For my own part, I have only given a summary of my
researches in Radiesthesia during a period of forty years, at the
rate of an average of fifty prospections a year. I now pass on
the torch to younger men.
It is my earnest wish that all friends of human progress
should co-operate and expound a science which will benefit
mankind. But this science should be, above all, a hymn of
praise and eternal gratitude to God, the Creator of all laws
for the welfare of humanity.
MY TESTAMENT AS A RADIESTHETIST
2 1 9
APPENDIX
I . t r a n s l a t o r ’s NOTE ON THE ENGLISH TEXT
I
N 1934, Abbe Mermet was involved in a legal action in
Switzerland for alleged ‘illegal’ practice of medicine. He
was acquitted of the charge brought against him by some local
medical bureaucrats who, however, appealed against the ver­
dict and succeeded in getting it annulled, with the result that
Abbe Mermet was fined.
This stupid miscarriage of justice caused great anger and
indignation among Abbe Mermet’s supporters, including a
number of eminent doctors and laymen, who expressed their
outraged feelings in a stream of letters to the Abbe.
As this legal action had no scientific relevance at all to the
principles and practice of Radiesthesia, it was decided to omit,
in the English translation, the lengthy account of the case and
the considerable correspondence concerned with it.
It was also considered unnecessary to include the favourable
opinions on Radiesthesia of two French authors both long since
deceased, Leon Daudet and Marcel Prevost, which are of little
interest or importance to English and American readers.
2 . SOME RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN ENGLAND
In a recently published work entitled Aluminium Utensils and
Disease — the dangers inherent in the widespread use of the metal
(The C. W . Daniel Co. Ltd., 1958), Dr H. Tomlinson, a well-
known London consultant, gives a full account of his own
experience as a medical radiesthetist in a most impressive
manner. He concludes by saying that, without the aid of
Radiesthesia, he would consider himself ‘blind, deaf and
dumb’ .
Dr Tomlinson’s remarkable, not to say revolutionary, work
may be likened to an atomic bomb thrown into the field of
medical science, for it explodes many orthodox ideas and con­
cepts, and accounts for the hitherto unaccountable failures of
221
modem medicine which are so frequently met with, in spite
of all the progress made by medical research.
Dr Tomlinson lays special emphasis on the question of
aluminium poisoning, as it appears to be one of the main
causes of a great number of diseases which prove refractory to
treatment until they are traced to their actual origin. Dr
Tomlinson states, as the result of long clinical experience, that
‘Radiesthesia is the only science which fully explains the
problem of aluminium poisoning’ , giving as it does the key to
the whole matter, and enabling the physician to make an
accurate diagnosis and prescribe suitable curative treatment.
This is indeed an achievement for which Dr Tomlinson
deserves full recognition, not only from the medical profession,
but from the general public as well.
Dr Tomlinson’s original work constitutes a striking con­
firmation of the results obtained by Abbe Mermet as a radies-
thctic healer, and presents entirely new methods of diagnosis
and treatment destined to revolutionise the practice of ortho­
dox medicine in the near future.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
222
A BRIEF GLOSSARY
Fault - A term used in geology indicating a rent in the earth’s
crust.
Parasitic linages - These are only reflections. This phenomenon
of parasitic images, which some radiesthetists with more or
less reason call magnetic images, constitutes perhaps the
most disturbing phenomenon met with in the course of
radiesthetic detection. It occurs mainly during a search on
the ground for water, minerals or buried objects.
Parasitic images are propagated in a mirror-like way in
accordance with certain laws, and are repeated indefinitely.
Thus it is important to recognise and disentangle these
images in the course of radiesthetic detection.
The subject of parasitic images is very ably dealt with by
Madame Marguerite Maury in her excellent work How to
Dowse, (See Bibliography,)
Remanence — When an object has remained in the same place
for some considerable time, and is then taken away, its
original resting place retains certain traces of its presence.
This is a well-known phenomenon which may cause errors
of judgment. Radiesthetic radiations of remanence must be
borne in mind for they may interfere with accurate de­
tection.
Sample - The word ‘sample’ in Radiesthesia is used to indicate
a small specimen or fragment of the object one is searching
for, exactly similar to it in every respect. Samples may be
introduced into a hollow pendulum to assist the operator in
his investigations. Abbe Mermet designed such a pendulum.
(See Fig. i.)
Serial Number - The number of times the pendulum gyrates is
called the serial number. (See Fig. 7.)
Sjntoniser — Term used in Radiesthesia as a synonym for
‘sample’ or ‘witness’ .
223
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
S/ntonisation —Action resulting from the use of a syntoniser.
Vein - A general term for a body of ore having great depth and
length but relatively small thickness.
Witness - Term used as a synonym for sample.
2 2 4
BIBLIOGRAPHY
T
HE bibliography of Radiesthesia has become almost a sub­
ject in itself, for during the last 2g years a vast number
of works has been published in France, Belgium, Italy, as
well as in this country.
It would be impossible to give a complete list of all the
works on Radiesthesia that have been published since Abbe
Mermet first wrote his famous textbook revealing the wonders
of what was then regarded as a new science and which is now
accepted by a great number of responsible people, convinced
by the evidence of irrefutable facts, as a perfectly natural
development of radiobiological science, just like radio and
television which w ere unimaginable to our immediate forebears.
It is thought desirable, however, to give a fairly comprehen­
sive list of major works on the subject published during the
last two or three decades in English, French and Italian.
It will be observed that foreign works on Radiesthesia
greatly outnumber and outclass those published in this country,
which is an indication of our intellectual insularity in that
domain of natural science which still awaits the advent of a
British exponent worthy to rank as an equal with the leading
Continental masters such as Abb6 Mermet and his brilliant
successors.
It is to be hoped that the publication of the present work
will stimulate interest and research and extend the range of our
scientific and metaphysical knowledge. (Trans.)
English
Archdale, F. A. Elementary Radiesthesia. 2nd edition 1956.
Ash, Dr M. Geophysics and Health. A .R .O ., Enfield 1958.
Hunt, C. Cooper. Radiesthetic Analysis. 2nd edition 1957.
Pike, S. N ., m b e, d fc . Water-Divining. Research Publications,
London 194$.
22£
Richards, Dr Guyon. The Chain o f Life. Health Science Press,
reprinted 1 9 5 4 .
Tarpey, Mrs Kingsley. Healing by Radiesthesia. Omega Press
1956.
Tomlinson, Dr H. The Divination o f Disease, A Study in Radies­
thesia. Health Science Press 1953.
Trinder, Captain W. H. Dowsing. British Society of Dowsers,
London 1950.
Tromp, S. W. Psychical Physics, a Scientific Analysis o f Dowsing,
Radiesthesia and Kindred Phenomena. Elzevier, New York
1949.
Watson, Dr T. B. Radiesthesia. 2nd edition 1957.
Wethered, V. D. A Radiesthetic Approach to Health and Homeo­
pathy, an Introduction to the Pendulum and its Use in the
Treatment o f Disease. British Society of Dowsers, London
i9S°.
English Translations
Beasse, Pierre. Dowsing. Translated from the French. Progres
Scientifique, Nice 1950.
de France, Vicomtc Henri. The Modern Dowser, a Cuide to the
Use o f the Divining Rod and Pendulum. Translated from the
French by Colonel A. H. Bell. Bell, London 1930.
The Elements o f Dowsing. Translated from the French by
Colonel A. H. Bell. Bell, London 1948.
Maury, Marguerite. How to Dowse, Experimental and Practical
Radiesthesia. Translated from the French by Colonel A. H.
Bell. Bell, London 1953.
French
Azam, A. L’ Art medical radiesthetique — Methods universelle de
Radiesthesie. 195-7.
Bourdoux, Rev. Fr. Notions pratiques de Radiesthesie pour les
Missionnaires. 4th edition 1950.
Chouteau, L. La Radiesthesie au Service de VArt medical. 1948.
Traite pratique de Radiesthesie. $th edition 1949.
226
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Chretien, H. Manuel pratique de Radiesthesie (2 vols.). 1953.
Christophe, E. Tu seras Sourcier — l'Orientation Mentale. jth
edition 19 47.
Discry, G. Le Diagnostique medical radiesthesique. 19 4 1.
Radiesthesie —la Science des Sourciers a la Portee de Tous.
6th edition 1950.
Mes Methodes —la Radiesthesie au Service de la Medicine.
19 S 2 -
de France, Vicomte Henri. Le Sourcier moderne. n th edition
19 ^ 1.
Heimme, Professor. Nourelle Methode de Radiesthesie. 2nd
edition 1952.
jarricot, Dr J, Pendule et Medecine. 1948.
Physique et Mental en Radiesthesie. 1949.
Lambert, A. Introduction a la Methode de Radiesthesie Mermet.
1948.
Le Gall, Colonel M. Toute la Radiesthesie en g Lecons, 19 53.
Connaissance par Radiesthesie, Vol. 1. 1956.
Leprince, Dr Albert. Radiesthesie medicale. 1947.
Lesourd, G. Goars pratique de Radiesthesie. 19 yo.
Luzy, Antoine. La Radiesthesie moderne. 1943.
UEducation radiesthesique. 1950.
Le Perfectionnement radiesthesique. 195-2.
Mermet, Abbe. Comment f open — pour decouvrir de pres ou a
distance, sources, metaux, corps caches, maladies. Definitive
edition 1957.
Mertens, Victor. Radiesthesie, Teleradiesthesie et Phenomencs hyper-
physiques. 4th edition 1949.
Moine, Michel. Guerir par la Radiesthesie. 1952.
La Radiesthesie en Images. 1955.
Naret, Dr Henry. Contribution a la Radiesthesie medicale. 1944.
Regnatdt, Dr J. Baguettes et Pendules — TArt du Sourcier et ses
Applications universelles. 1948.
Tressel, P. La Pratique de la Radiesthesie. 3rd edition 1957.
Vire, Dr Armand. Comment devenir Sourcier. J947.
Voillaunie, Ch. Memento de Radiesthesie. 19 53.
227
Italian
Castelli, Rev. Donato. L’ Uomo, la Bacchetta, il Pendolo.
Che cosa e la Radiestesia. 1 9 4 8 .
Filonardi, L. Element! di Elettrometria umana — Radiestesia. 2nd
edition 1 9 4 7 .
Grazzi, Mario. Radiestesia —Primi Passi. 1 9 4 6 .
Peretti, Valeria. La Radiestesia e le sue Rivelazioni attrarerso i
Colon ed i Fiori. 1 9 4 8 .
Album dei Quadranti per Sperimentazioni ed Esercitazioni con
il Pendolo radiestesistico, ideati e disegnati da Valeria Peretti.
1 9 4 8 .
Stiattesi, Prof. Rev. Raffaelo. Manuale di Radiestesia e Geojlsica.
3 rd edition 1 9 4 7 .
Vinci, Dr Enrico. Radiestesia. 3 rd edition 1 9 4 8 .
Zampa, Pietro. L’Agricoltura nelle Meraviglie di una nuova
Scienza — Come Vagricoltura puo essere migliorata dalla
Radiestesia. 1 9 4 8 .
La Radiestesia nelle Indagini psichiche. 1 9 3 1 .
Elementi di Radiestesia. yth edition 1 9 ^7 .
Foreign Periodicals —In addition to the extensive literature on
Radiesthesia available there are at least twenty periodicals on
the subject published on the Continent.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF RADIESTHESIA
2 2 8
INDEX
Aluminium utensils and disease,
in relation to Radiesthesia,
221
Archaeological researches by
Radiesthesia, i 3 ; by Radies­
thesia on a plan, 1 4 6
Capital Ray, see Mental Ray
Carrel, Alexis, views on Radies­
thesia, I 3
Catholic priests and Radies­
thesia, 18
Clairvoyants, note on, 1 6 0
Corners, radiesthetic effect of,
62
Depth, detection of, 1 1 3
Distance, detection of, 1 1 3
Diagnosis, from a photograph,
1 8 7 ; from a signature, 1 8 8 ;
without material contact, at
a distance, 1 8 9 ; and the
medical profession, 1 92
Errors, causes of, 1 2 1
Experiments, for beginners, 1 6 3 ;
Branly’s experiment, 3 8 ;
lens experiment, 61 ; mirror
experiment, 5 8 ; prism ex­
periment, 60
Fading, the phenomenon of, 57
Fault, geological, 223
Field, radiesthetic, 40
Fundamental hypothesis of
Radiesthesia, 27
Fundamental Ray, 44
Gases, detection of, 8 8 , 1 3 4
Glossary of radiesthetic terms,
223
Gold, the Cross of, 1 0 3 , 1 0 4 ;
length of fundamental ray as
function of weight, 1 0 1 ;
magnetic images of, roi,
1 0 4 ; radiesthetic field of,
101
Intellectual faculties, radiesthetic
measurement of, 1 8 4 ; table
of intellectual faculties of
some great musicians, 18 5
Lakhovsky, his theories and
Radiesthesia, 2 4 ; The Secret
of Life, English translation,
2 4 ; works of, 24
Lines of force, 42
Luminous Ray, 48
Magnetic surfaces, 42
Magnetic images and distinguish­
ing them from real objects,
1 1 0
Maps, prospection on, 127, 128,
I3 G i 3 £s> i 6 J ; for tracing
missing persons, 1 9 6 s
Medical Radiesthesia, growing
use of, 1 7 4 ; in England, 2 2 1 ;
and harmful radiations, 1 7 6 ;
and selection of remedies,
18 is; and telediagnosis, 1 8 6 s
Mental Ray, 4 3 , 1 2 6 , (Capital
Ray) 1 6 4 , 1 8 6
Missing persons, tracing of, 1 9 6 s
2 2 9
I N D E X
Nobile Expedition and Abbd
Mermet, 1 6 1
Organism, unconscious role of,
3 6 ; as conductor, 36
Parasitic images, 2 23
Pendular designs, 36
Pendulardiagnosis,originof, 1 6 7 ;
cases of, 1 7 1 ; and the medi­
cal profession, 1 9 2
Pendulum, Abbe Mermet’s own
model, 3 4 ; correct manner of
holding, 3 3 ; movements of,
3 2 ; role of, 2 9 ; substance,
2 9 ; weight, 29
Petroleum, prospection for, 83s,
1 3 0 s
Photographs, diagnosis by, 1 8 7 ;
prospection on, 1 6 3
Radiations, emitted by all bodies,
2 7 ; field of, 4 0 ; harmful,
1 7 6 ; causes of harmful, 1 7 9 ;
remanent, 1 8 3 ; or undula­
tions, 39
Radiesthesia, British pioneers of,
1 4 ; can the science be
taught? 3 8 ; the Medical
Society for the Study of, 1 4 ;
and recent developments in
England, 2 2 1 ; typical features
of, 168
Radiesthetic field, 40
Radicsthetic characteristics of
man, 182
Radiesthetic images, 32
Relics, discovery of, by Radies­
thesia, 1 48
Remanence, 2 2 3
Sample, definition of radies­
thetic, 2 2 3
Serialnumbers, 33 ; and rotational
directions, 1 8 2 ; table of, 93
Signature, diagnosis by means of,
188
Solar Ray experiment, 49
Spirals, 3 3
Subterranean cavities, 83
Syntonisation, 2 2 4
Syntoniser, 2 2 3
Telediagnosis or distant bio­
logical detection, principles
of, 1 8 6 ; cases of, 1 9 3
Teleradiesthesia or distant pros­
pection, examples of, 1 3 3 ;
first steps in, 1 3 0 ; principles
of, 1 2 6
Tomlinson, Dr H., 2 2 1
Translator’s Note on the English
text, 2 2 i
Treasures, hidden, 1 5 9
Underground cavities and buried
objects, 1 4 3
Vatican, Abbe Mermet’s archaeo­
logical researches for, 1 3
Vertical radiesthetic column, 30
Veterinary cases, 1 7 3
Water, circulation of, 6 3 ; for
drinking, 6 6 ; impure, 8 0 ;
mineral, 7 8 ; prospection for,
1 0 8 , radiesthetic field of, 64
Witness, radiesthetic, 2 2 4
Witness Ray, 30
2 3 0
