{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__spooner___deists_reply.pdf","mytitle":"Deists Reply","mylang":"de"}
DEIST'S REPLY
~ /J.
TO THE
ALLEGED SUPERNATURAL EVIDENCES
a~a;L;~~ .---~
CHRISTIANI1'Y.
. -
. ~ ..
HY LYSANDER SPOONER.
.
PRESENTED TO THE CLERGY GENERALLY IN BOSTON.
BOSTON :
1836.
I
•
... .
\.
• '\
'
..
•
..
. . ...
' .
#-'
.. ....,. ·~··... -.J
• ...
" ....
,,
...
"'\
... .
•
... ..
\
"'
E ntered a.ccordtng to Act of Congress in the year 1836, by the Author1 in the Clerk's Office of the
Distri(:t Court of1\lassachusetts.
•
•
C 0 N 'f E N '.r S .
CHAP. I. The Early Spread of Christianity,
- - 11. The Nature and Character of Jesus,
- -.
111. The Alleged .Miracles ofJesus,
--IV. The Prophecies,
- - V. The Resurrection,
1.
- 7.
18.
40.
50.
'I' HE DE IS T' S R E PLY.
CHAPTER I.
Tlte Em·ly Sp1·eacl of Clu·istianity.
There are some believers, who place little confidence in the evidence of tl.1e miracles
said to have beeu performed by Jesus, who yet say that the establishment of such a religion
as his, hy such mcau::; as were employed after hi:s death, is of itself a convincing miracle.
They say it is incredil>le that the preachers of a religious system, the mo:::t prominent
doctnue of which was that the Son of God, its f<mnder, wns slain, should l1ave JHCt \vith
such success, uuless God had HJiraculously aided them. They, iu short, say substautially,
that the very idea of the Son of God and the Saviour of the \'vorld beiug put to death iguo-
miniously and like a cr]minnl,-is on the face of it so absurd, and so repugnant to all men's
notions of what is probable, and of what would consist with the proper character for such a
being to assume, that unless some supernatural influence had been exerted to aid in gaining
for it belief~ men never would have believed it.
Now, the absurdity and improbability of this doctrine, in the abstract, being acknowledged,
Jet the question be put, whether it be any less absurd or improbable on accouut of its having
been belit:?-ved? If not, then here is an alle~ed miracle to be inquired into, of a different kind
fi·om those, on the evidence of which the Bible professes mainly to rest its claims to credit;
a sort of incidental miracle, in fact, appat·ently not at all intended to furnish evidence of the
truth of the Bible. -
It is a little remarkable that any, professing to believe the Bible, should abandon, as insuf-
ficient, the evidence which its authors represent to have been expres~ly designed to convince
men ef its truth, and should thus seize upon an after circumstance of so doubtful a character
as this. Yet oue, who attempts to meet believers on their own grounds, n1u:st of necessity
answer llJany arguments uo more rational than this, or suffer then.1 to believe on ; for very
slight and flimsy evidence is sufficient to satisfy the minds of such as are both determined to
believe, and afraid to disbelieve.
But if it shall ap}Jear that this system, absut·d and improbable as its maitl doctrine js, might
have been propagated without its having, or being aided by, any miraculous po\"''er, then the
argument, against the truth of the doctrine, to be drawn from its absurdity and improbability,
will be entitl<>d to what would have been its just weight, independent of the :::;ystent's having
been believed at all. The only ground,..that believers of the present day could then take, on
this point, would be this, viz, that their astoni~hment, that rnen should ever have been so cred-
ulous as to believe so improbable and absurd a system, is so great, that they themselves will now
believe it too.
Let us then inquire into the causes of the success of the Apostles, and see whether they
were not natural ones.
One of the most efficient of these causes, was the manne1~ in which they preached. That
alone was calculated to malw a very strong impression upon the minds of such as were too ig-
norant or simple, (and such the first converts will hereafter appear generally to have been,)
to judge rationally of tht~ truth of the statements they heard, and the soundness. of" the reli-
gious doctrines, that \IVet·e taught. The manner of all the Apostles must have exh1b1ted a great
deal of sincerity and zeal, (for they were undoubtedly honest in tlH~il· faith,) and nothing
makes so favorable an impression upon the minds of men in general, in favor of those, who
advocate new doctrines; nothing inclines them so much to listen willingly to all they have to
say, as an appearance, on their part, of perfect.sincerity and simplicity.
AJJother tt·ait in the manner of some of them, particularly of Paul, who appears to have
been by far the most eilident apostle, was boldness. The exhibition of thi:::~ quality always
po,verfully affects the in1aginations of the weak and ignorant, of .whom the early converts
wet·e evidently composed.
The question is often asked, how is the uolc1uess and zeal of the Apostles to be accou~ted
for, when they lmew they had 110 worldly houors to expect, but, on the contrary, per:;;ecutwn,
and the contempt of a large portion of the community, ':Vherever they shouJd go? To au-
swer this question, it is nece;;:sat·y to refer to what was the condition of these men, (with the
exception of Paul) when they first became the disciples of Jesus. They lVere obscure, illit-
erate, simple and superstitious men-men of no importance as citizens either in theit·. own
own eyes or the eyes of othet·s. They had never looked to worldly honors or promotwns;
but evidently had expected from their youth up, to pa~s their days in the obscut·est paths ant!
humblest walks of life. The contempt of those above them had no terrors for such men as
l '
....._________________________--- -
THE DEIST'S REPLY.
these-they had never aspired to be their equals, and they were willing, because, in whatever
situation they might be, they had always expected, to be despised by them as a matter of
cout·se, on account of their degraded conditions of minrl and fortunes. Sti11, at the same
time, to he at the head of even little sects and bands of those, who had once been theil· equals,
and to be looked up to by them as guides, was a distinction adapted to excite most powerfully
the ambition of these men, however much they might be despised by all but their foJio\11 ers.
They, by becomin~, and being aclmowledged as, the teachers of others, acquired an impor-
tance, of which a few yea•·s before they had never dreamed. They owed whatever of worldly
consequence they possessed entirely to the fact of their being esteemed leaders hy their pros-
elytes. Simple, artless and sincere as these men were, such circumstances were calculated
to attach them strongly to the cause in which they were engaged, although they might not be
aware of being so influenced.
'!'hey also attached the greatest importance to a belief in the doctrines, that they preached.
They e:;teemed themselves the agents of God, commissioned to save men's souls. They
looked upon their employment as of the most momentous consequence; and their imagina-
tions, unbalanced by reason and reflection, were intensely excited by such views of their
duty.
But there was another cause, perhaps more powerful than all these together. These sim-
ple men had been convinced that Jesus was no less a personage than the Son of God. They
had been honored, as they thought by being made his bosom friends, while he was on the
earth, anrl his immediate and most conspicuous agents after his death, for accomplishing a
design, which to their mimls, was the most magnificent that could ue conceh·ed. He had, by
telling them beforehand of the dangers an<l difficulties, an<l obloquy they were to encounter
from those whom they had been taught to consider the euemies of God, nnd by promises that
he would always be with them on earth, and that he would. extravagantly reward tbem in
heaven, if they should perse\'ere and be faithful, wrought them up to a pitch of fanaticism
calculated to make them look on all the opposition of men as unirnp011ant nothings. "BLESS-
ED are ye," said he," when men shalJ revile you, and pet·secute you, and shall say all manner of
evil a~ainst you falsely, for my sake. Rt>joice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your re-
wm·d 111 heaven-for so per:-ecuted they the prophets, \'rhich were before you." Can any
considerations be imagined more Jikely to render these simple fanatics nlike intlifferene to
every thing worldly, whether of hardship or comfort, of prosperity or adversity, of honor or
shame? Yes. Jesus found pictures, even more inflammatory than these, to operate upoB
their untutored imaginations. He said to them, "ye are they, which hnve continued fttitb me
in my temptations, anti I appoint unto you a kingdom., ns my fnther hath appointed unto n1e,
that ye may eat and drink at my table, in my kingdom, an<l sit on THRONEs, judging tile
twelve trihes of Israel." (Lul<e, 22-2S to so.)•
It i~ useless to comment upon the natu1·al effects of such language as this, upon soc& men
.as those, to whom it was addressed, and who implicitly believed in the reality of \\'bat was
promised to them. Perhaps no other picture cnu be imagined, that woold bnve so po-1'f'er-
ful1y fired the imagination of these credulous men, as thh:, offered to them, ns it 1\'a!r, by one
whom they uelieved to he the SoN of GoD! 1t all looked pl'tJbaLle to them, notwithstanding
its extravagance. They hnd on earth sat with him at taLle-1\ try should they not a1e-o in
hea\•en? They lmew too that thet·e were tweh·e tribes of Israel, and their own number was
al:oeo t\\'elve, apparently selected with reference to the number of tribes to be ruled o"--er.
The who]~ prospect must l1ave been, to them, a gorgeous reality. 'l'he effect wa:S soeh as
mia-ht have been expected. These men had their minds engrossed by the grandeur of tbeil'
de.~!!'ns, and tbe grandeur of their promised reward. They had nothing io attach them to
this \\'orld, or to make them regard the esteem of men. One gt·eat purpose fore\·er stimula-
ted and urged tbem on, anc:.l hurried them fi'Om place to place, wherever a convert could be
made. It made them fearless of death, fearless of men, fearless, in fact, of all worldly con-
sequences. It gave to ~hem vastly more of boldness, zeal anti perseverance, than coultl have
been easily inspired by other menns, in men naturally so timid anu ~piritless.
Perhaps it wi11 be said that the writings of theNew Testament display talents in«!onsistfmt
with the idea that their authors wet·e intellectually so weak as I have represented them. To
this objection I answer, that f•·om the beginning to the end of the New 'restament, t-here is
displayed little wit or wisdom for Christians to be proud of. Besides, it should be reeolleeted
that these writings were not executed until the authors had generally, for several~~
been engaged in the employment of preachers-an employment adapted to cnll into exer.,
and thus to increase, the little powers they originally possessed. .And yet the benefit of j)lfs
Jong course of education has only enabled them, with n few exceptions, to furnish ~s
and epistles, which, with all the advanta~e they mny be supposed to have derived f\i()'t.b: die
translations of such learned men as would be likely to impr~ve upon the style and ~--­
sions of the original, come very near being the most simple, and the most destitute ofthoqht,
of any to be found in the English language.
If men were but to read the New Testament with the same tone and emphasis, with wllioh
*This promise was probably understood, at the time it was made, as referring to temporal thi'OIIa.; btd
after tho departure of Jesus, was applied by the apostles to heavenly ones.
THE EARLY SPREAD OF CU.RISTB:NlTY,
they do other books, anu were to keep out of mind the iden of its being sacred, they would
be disgusted with the credulity, nnd the want of in tcllcct, reason aud judgment, that is appnr-
ent iu it. 'l'be imaginntions of belicvcJ·s have urcss<'d up and exaggerated the excellence of
the style and matter of the New Testarnent generally, in the sntue mmmer, in \\ hich they
have the moral instructions of Jesus. They hnve <.lone tbis in the same manner, in "hich we
may suppose the imaginations of the people of nil nations, that ha\ e books esteemed sacred,
gloss over and exaggerate the excellence of their contents.
The larger portion of the "Acts of the Apostles," separate from the insipidity of the lJar-
rative, contain the most extraordinary exhibitions of lack ofjudgment aud intellectual resource,
that cau easily be found on record.
'fo support these :wsertions, let me ask those, who have been accustome<l to look at the
writing~ of the New Testament as inspired, to look at them for once as uninspired, (which is
the only proper '\\'ay of regarding thelll until their inspiration be clearly proved;) to read
them with no more reverence than they would read any other hook ; to read them as being
what they really purport to be_., viz, nothing hut narratives, and letters of cxhot·tation and in-
struction; lP.t them, in short for once read the hool{S critically, di::;carding all idea of their
being sacred, and I have little doubt their opinions will then concur with those here expressed.
Paul was in some respects distinguishable from the other Apostles. He had some talents,
.althou~h a muc1uy intellect, and. little ju<.l~ment. He was violent, precipitate and unreflect-
mg. He ·was bigoted, superstitious and dogmatical in his first faith, and little less so in his
last. He was self-confident, boastful* and dictatorial to a disgusting degree. Ilis fm·te was
in teaching doctrines, the utility or renson of which, inasmuch as nobody else has understoorl,
he probably did not understand himself. He was also crafty and deceitful, without appear-
ing to reflect at all upon the character of such conduct; and this fact shows, either that he
was not a rigid moralist in principle, or that he hacl very obtuse moral perceptions. His
t·cadiness to practice deception is exhibited in the fo11owinp: instances. He circumcised ']'i-
motheus to cheat the .Jews, as appears by Acts 16-3. "Him would Paul have to go forth
with him, and took and circumcised him, because of the Jews which were in those quarters,
for they knew all that his father was a Greek." \Vhen imprisoned at Phillippi, he falsified,
and said he was a Roman, (Acts 16-37, SS) to alarm and impo~e upon those \\ho had im-
prisonerl him, supposing him to be, as he really was, a Jew. (Acts 16-20 anil 21-Acts 22
-3.) lie repeated the same falsehood afterwards, and declarea that he was a Roman "free-
born," (Acts 22-27,23). This lie appears to have been told because some expedient of the
ldnd seemed necessary to extricate him ft·om the trouble he had got himself' into.t 1.\ioreover he
was ambitious, and appears to have been disposed in some cases, to turn his labors to a better
worldly account than the other Ap.ostJe:s.t He was also revengeful, as appears by his second
Epistle to Timothy 4-14. "Alexander the coppersmith.dirl me much e\'il, the Lord reward
him according to his works." A wish, in which superstition and a vulgar spirit of reveJJge
are more ludicrously combined, was perhaps never recorded, or even expressed.
That his pretence, before al1uded to, of having been caught up 1'nto heaven, was all a fabl'i-
cation,(instcad of an account of a dream, whic.h I suppose christians wiJl think it to have
heen,) is renrlered probable IJy the natu1·e of the story, by the fact that he would not relate
what he heard there, by his own bad character for veracity, by the necessity he was in of tell-
ing a marvellous story of some kind, and tbe cjrcumstance that he thought it best to preface
it (2r1. Co1·. 11-31) with the declaration that" the God anrl Father of the Lord Jesus Christ,
which is blessed forevermo1·e, knew that he was not lying."
Let us now look at the chnracter of the people who became converts. In the first place,
the people, in general, among whom the Apostles preached, are proved to have been a sim-
ple, spiritless race of heings, from the fact5 th::tt they appear to have harl no lmvs, hut to ha\'e
been governed entirely by the will of a single deputy of the Roman power, who ruled over
*See his ridiculous boast (2 Cor. 12-J to 5) that he was the mnn who had been caught up into the
third heaven, (query-how many heavens are there in all?) and had there heard c<>rtain sounds, which
he declined repeating, on the pretence that it would be ?tnlau~ful for him to do so. This journey to para·
dise, therefore, was labor lost, unless the story of it, united with his declarations (2 Cor. 11-5-2 Cor. 12
-11) that" he was not a whit behind the Yery chiefest of the Apostles," and his other boastful preten-
ces, of which the last named chapters are full, served some purpose in gaining him cr~d!~ among t~ose,
whose backwardness to regard him. he virtuallv says, (2 Cor: 12-11) "compelled Jnm to brag a little:
although, modest man! he would not for the world be thought" to glory of himself, but in his infirmi.
ties.'' (2 Cor. 12-5.)
t Perhaps some explanation may be given to this declaratl.on of Paul; I here stat~ only what appears on
the face of the matter.
+2d. Cor. 11-8. "I 1·obbcd other clmrchcs taking wages of them, to do you service." It may well
be doubted, one would think, whether the lastclause of this verse gin~s his real reason for an act: which
he seems to admit, in the first clause, to be unjust.
•
4 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
them merely for the purpose of sponging from them as large a share, as be could, of their
property, for the SUJ'port of the grandeur of the Roman nation. It is probable, too that_few
could read, since but few in the most enlightened parts of the world could at that time read.
Printing not being known, the books that then existed must ha,·e been in manuscript, and of
course, aHust have been few and but little circulated. The people generally having no con-
cern in the management of the affairs of government, and considering themselves, as tiler
really were, the despised subjects or slaves of the Romans, they had no national or individaal
spirit to keep them ti·om sinking into the most contemptible intellectual degradation. It is
probable that few people are now to be found on the eaa1h more destitute of every thh~ Ike
character, than wea·e the ga·eat portion of those, among whom the apostles ])reached. "W esee,
by the accounts in the Acts of the Apostles, t.hat they were addicted to the most pettv and
contemptible vices, and the most ludicrous and disgusting superstitions- believing an g\oats,
and de\'ils, and visions, and dreams, and evil spirits, and sorce.-ies, in p1·ophetesses! (Aeta:la-
9) in the power of speaking with tongues, in miracles, in witchcraft, ana apparently inallllke
other absurdities that superstition ever ga\'e rise to. They were always agog for somedlilg -
new and marvellous in religious matters- indeed they appeaa·ed to care for little else. TtieM
credulous heings were continually imposed upon by men "boasting themselves to be lfliB8•
body," as, for example, one Judas, and one Theudns, who got sects after them, (~
56 and 87.) Their readiness to believe in every thing, that appeared to them to be mir.acu-
lous, cannot be more plainlv, or perhaps more ludicrously shown, than it is in Acti 5-16and
16, where it appears that they brought the ~ick into the streets and laid them on beds, so that
"at least the &hadotc of Peter passing by mi~ht ot:er&hadotc some of tbem." It ap(~ears aao
by Acts 19- 12, that sick persons were curett, and evil spirits cast out by the effieacy of tie
handkerchiefs and aprons lhat had been about the p_e,·son of Paul! \Vhat sort of "e1il .,......
its" were probably cast out by the sight of Paul's handkerchief&? Or how bar) wasthe ''lick-
ness" that eould have been cured by these means? Can nn'' one doubt, that if the ha..lier-
chiefs of another person had been used, aud had been called Paul's, so as to deceive the die-
eased person, the samP. miracles would ha\'e been wrought? Or can a man of common 8eJJae
want any fua·ther proof that this affilir of being possessed of ue\'ils, of which there are so
many stories iu the New Testament, and the supposed miraculous cua·es of diseases, we,. all
shams- the mere works of the imaginations of those, who were of the number of the veriest
sim_j)letons that ever bore the name of men?
'fhP.re is anothea· account equally ridiculous, beginning at the 1Sth verse of Acts lith,
which shews what a stupid, superstitious and senseless •·ace of beings some of thoae Mrei
among whom Paul preached. It seems that some vagrant Jews attempted to cast out theiJ eri
spiriti1 by uttering, over those that were supposed to be possel!sed of them, these . . .I
word~," we arljure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth." It appears that they had ado~
thi:; method with one, and that "the e\·il spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and P.lull
know, but who are ye?" and then, instearl of coming out of the man, it cau.sed him (as the
lookers-on ~u pposed) to fly pell-mell nt these impostors, and bruise, and beat, and strip them,
and rlrive them out of the house. Now any yankee boy, a dozen years old, woutd see
through such an affair at once; but when this came to be noised abroad, people looked ~
it as an atofuljudgmentfrom God, upon those who had attempted, for their own b_..,_
or without proper authority, to use the name of Jesus ns a word of magic to exorcilea..ifl,
And the writeradds that this affair con,·erted many, that "fear fell on them all," "tbattlle .....
of the Lord Jesus was magnified," and he closes the account by saying, "so mightilf ..,...
the word of God and pre,·ailed !"
It would be using the name of God profanely to introduce it into so contemptible a dieJtJay
of the credulity and superstition of those bnlf-witted creatures, and of the manner in wlich
they were imposed on by theia· own imaginations, were it uot that it is necessary to do..,. ia
order to expose the almost incredibly ridiculous ubsm·,lities, that men of the presem ....,,
without reflection, and as a mattea· of course, take for sacred and important truth.
In this case we have an exhibition of the amount of aa·gument and evidence, that wt11 'fiW.
cessary in the Apostles' time to malte a convert to Christianity. And unless the Cle!'lf ~
deny this transaction, I should think it might be well for them to say no more about~­
culties of propagating the Christian religion.
The fact also, that a large portion of the early Christians believed the books now ecmtp•
ing the "Apocryphal New Testnment," tells a tale that cannot be gainsayed for a
It confirms nil I have said, and more than I ha\'·e said, of the simplicity, credulity and
stition of those, who first embraced Christianity. It is no answer to these facts to
there were some enlightened men in the countries where Christianity first
mass were otherwise. And especially those, who first became converts, were sucla q
describe1l. And any man of common mind, who will read the "Ar.ocryphal New
ment," mnst say that men, who would swallow such stories, could ea~uly be brou~bt to be!lftlre
any thing whatever, that fanatics or impostors could ever wish to make them believe.
\Vith :l'uch a people, the more extravagant and marvellous a doctrine or narrative
bettea·. In fuct it was absolutely necessary that it should be so to a great degree, e-
would not have listened to it for a moment. I1nagine then such a reckless,
lent man as Paul, travelling from place to place, sometimes with his head shaved,
•
TJlE EARLY SI'l!EAD 01-' CliRISTIANI'rY.
18 ;) preaching even in the streets of citif's, whc•·eycr lle coulrll!ct a crowd of the populace
around him, telling well that the Sou of God hnd been on cnrtiJ iu the form of u man, mH.I hnd
!Jef'n cruelly slain ; hut thnt he had returned to life og-ain; that he himself had Lcen ~upcrnnt:
umlly converted, nud hnd been appoiutcd to preach for Jcsu~, to eure tlte :-:ir·k awl to east out
deYil:-3; telling the111 ul:;o that he was ready to east out all the devils uu<l Ilea] :dl the :;ick tlu•y
woulcl hl'ing to hirn; nnd i.s it strange, or unuatural, nuy thi ng 1110rc than 111ight hnvc been ex-
pected, nuy thiug morc than n wattcr of cour~e, thatHtuhitudes_~hould ltavc been, some of
thf'Hl enraged, aucl others n:stoui:sbecl, nttracted and deluded, hy such a strange iunovation,
and such an uuaccouutahle attc111pt to uptu&'ll their accu~tomctl rcliginus ob!'enaut:~~, l1y the
introduction of such HO\'el ancl unheard-of uotions? Such was the l'ffect. If auy oue wish
· to form an idea of the cxcitetlleut, that Pau I SOHICtime.s cnu:-;cd, Jet him rend the 1Hth clmpter
of Acts, and see what a hurly-uurly and upronr was occasioned at Epl~e:.;us by his having
preached there, and got a sect after him.
The noYcl ebaractct· or the doctrines taught by the Apostles, and the marvellous nnture of
thei1· stories ahout Jesus, constitutc1l the bait, by which the people were <:aught ut eve1·y ~top.
An<l the success of this bait was aided by that credulousness, which LH·ought the imaginations
of tho.se who were sick, or who only imagine(l themselves sick, (for such an abundance of
sick people hns seldom been henrtl of iu any other case,) and the imngiuations of those,
who supposed themselves possessed of devils, to assist in worldng what they caiJcd mimcles.
'Vhen we consider that there were tweluc of the::.e preachers, a11 engaged in preaching the same
doctrines in various places, uud t!Jut these doctrines wcro diffct·eut frou~ all othcrR then be-
lieved, it is naturnl, if each preacher made the nuBJher of converts, 'vhieh he would be likely
to, that in a few years this sect must have become numerous, and from being wideJy scattered
over the couutry, must ha,·e attracted the notice and curiosity of ull.
Such then wns the manner in which this sect wus planted-other means afterwards contri-
buted to cultivate and rear it. The soil we have seen was adapted to the natm·e of the plant-
it was a rich compost of ignorance, superstition and credulity. During the lives of the
twelve, they, by their personal labors, accomplished much, and it appears that they aui:horiz-
ed many of the new converts to become their fellow laborers. In process of time the
gospels were written, and these writings gave the Christians a decided advantage over those
whom they were laboring to supplant. They thus became supplied with something, to
which they could refer as an autho,.ity fot· what they p1·eached. They could then produce
w1·itten e\·idence, and such evidence too as would be likely to he satisfncto•·y to a Yery 1n!'ge
number of the credulous persons of that day. Since few bool<s we1·e then written at all, and
sh1ce the greater portion of the people had probably no acquaintance \'rith such as were writ-
ten, they (if they were Hke those of the present day who are equally unlearned) would not
presume to doubt or scrutinize the truth of any thing, which should appear in the form of a
book. Not having any religious books of their own, the fact, that the religious doctrines of
the Christians, and that the accounts of the marvellous circumstances under which those doc-
trines were communicated, should be 1m·itten, was doubtless of itself, to them, a very won-
derful affair,, and was remarkably calculated to impress them with the idea that whatever the
Apostles had told them must he true.
Another circumstance, which most powerfully contributed to the spread of Christianity,
was, that the importanee, which the Christians attached to a belief in their faith, was so great
as always to keep awake among them a fanatical spirit of proselytism-a circumstance, which
before their time had probab1y never been !mown to exist, on an extended scale, in favor of
any other system.
The natural effect of these various causes would be to build up a great and numerous sect
of Christians even in a few years. At length they began to be persecuted, and ifpersecu~ion
had the effect then, that it invariably does now, it must have powerfully aided the progress of
their cause.
Auothe1· ci I'Cumstance, which prevents the spread of Christianity, in the early periods of
its existence; fi'Om being any thing remarkable, is, that it hnd nothing like a regular system
to ~ontend with, in those places where it spread. The few heathenish notions, that men had
about "the God:;,, and about religion, had no foundation in any written authorities, but only
in the vague and unaccountable traditionary superstitions of the people of those times. The
Jews had a written system of theology, and Christianity could make few converts among
them, although it pretends to have been more especially designed for them. In modern times
~t has made no considerable JH'Ogress among any people, who have a written system of their
own to appeal to-whereas if it had the least particle of miraculous power, it certainly
would triumph over all other systems, whether they were written ones or J!Ot.
If any further evidence be wanted that the spread of Christianity was not supernatural,
look at the spread of Mormonism, and see how, even at this day, and in this country, a miserab]e
vagabond of n"Joe Smith," in a short space of time,can put f!. large community in an uproar,and
raise up a numerous sect of followers, full of faith and fanaticism, eager to believe any thing
marvellous in relation to the hook of Mormon, and the Mormon prophet,and ready to make any
effort and any sacrifice for the propagation of the momentous truths oftheir Revelation. Look
~lso at the success of Edward Irving's attempts to make persons "speak tvith tongues," &c.
m England, and at the spread of St. Simonianism in France. I.ook even at the camp-meet··
,
6 THE. DEIST'S REPLY.
ings and revh·nls here in New England, and obsen•e to how great a degree the timid and su-
perstitious will surrender their understandings to tbe guidance of nny ranting parson, "ho
has impudence, hypocrisy, and coolness enough to put on a solemn cadaverous face, and talk
judiciously to them about hen., the devil, and other kindred matte1·s. These things iJJustrate
the credulity of mankind in matters of this sort, and the ease with wl1ich n system might Mte-
ceed in a superstitious and ignorant age, especially if the propagators had a few mar\'elleus
stories to relate, and could perform worl\s that would pas~ for mi1·acles ; and after it had suc-
ceeded for a time, it would become so incorporated into the institutions and cuitoms of 1ae
people that it would thereafterwards be h~li~,·~d a:() a matter of <:ourse, and without inquiry ;
in the same manner, fo•· example, as Chrlstlamty 1s now by the great moss of those \\ ho be-
lieve it at all.
The fact, that some of the Apostles sufferell martyrdom rather than renounce their faith,
has been looked upon as evidence that they were engaged in the cause of truth. But martrr-
dom is e\·idence only of a man's honesty-it is no e\·idence that he is not mistaken. Men
have suffe•·ed martyrdom for all sorts of opinions in politics and in religion ; yet they eould
not the•·efore have all been in the right; a]though they could gi\·e no stronger C\ idence that
they belie\'ed themsel\'es in the right.
The Apo!'tles undoubtedly suppo~ed they ha•l !'een Jesus perform mirnclc~, nnd that, in
circulating theit· accounts of him, they were tellin~ the ta·uth. They uncloubtcclly httlitn=f'tl
that they them~elves could perform miracles; of a certain kind, such as cnsting out deYUtlJ and
healing the sick; although in reality, n~ I think hns been shewn, the imagination moat have,
in many instnnces, and p.-obably in nil, created the malady, and ns really, iu nil ca~tes eflft.tttd
the cure, if there were any cure. But the Apostles, bein~ ,:;imple men, understood nothinc
of the r.ower of the imagination ; anrl thf'refore honestly believed that all thnt nppeal'ed waa
real. J'hey them5eh•es were as superstitious as tho!"e to whom they preached. Thill ftlct i&
proved hy such circumstances as the~e, l"iz. Paul lwd his head shave.d because he lultl a~~
(Acts IS-IS). Paul irnaginell himself forbidden by the Holy Gho3t to J,rench in pal'ticelar
places, (AcB 16-6 &.. 7). The Apostles commaaHied the converts to abstain from thing•
stran~ded, as if there we•·e n wickedness in eating surh, (Acts J 5-~S &. ~9). \\'"hen a y~
man had fallen from a winclow, he W:l!=i taken up nppnrently lifeles51~ (ns pe1~ons frettlMflltll
are after a fall) ; but on his re,·iving, it wa::; eo:teemcd a miracle, ns \\ell by Poul hin1eet£, rt
would seem, as by the b~·!'tantler:O:, (.Acts '20-9). Peter ima,l.!ined hims{'lf delivered fmm
prison by an angel, (Acts 12-5 to 11) ; althou~h the conduct of thr supposed angel \YM ~
cisely such as we may reasonably suppose woulcl hn,·e lwcn that of n lllRll, who should ba¥e
atten1pted to liberate him. For example, a li!{hl 8hone in the room, (a~ would hn1e bMD
the case if n man had gone in, fm· he W(luld hm·e umlouLteclly c~n·i<."d n light iu with him);
the supposed nngel struck or touched him on the sidf", (to wake hirn e,·idently, just as a tntln
would ha\'e clone); "1•aised him up," nnd saicl to him, "a•·ise up f")Uickly, gird rbyt~elf, allll
bind ou thy !'nndals, cnst thy ~arments about thcf', and follow me,, (precisely a~ a rnnn wc..W
have di•·ectecl him). It is evident that the guard must hn,·e heen nsleep, "hcther the beiq,
who liberated Peter, were au nngel or n Hlnn ; for l1
eter was not detected in going oat, al-
thouzh he would as likely have h~en wlten in the compnny of an nn:tel, "ho ~hould tJJallt 6t,..
fore,....as this one is said to have done, ns in the company of a man. Peter suppo,.ed rhet the
gate opened of its own al"cord ; but he wns liable to be mist:.ken ns to this fact, beettwe •
man would he ,·cry likely to lea,·e it open as he w~nt in ; or if he did not lea\'e it opeu, he
would undoubtedly leal""e it in such n condition that hf' could open it rendil)', ami "ithout Mly
such effort as n per~on walking behind him would Le likely to oh:oen·e. After they had thua
)eft the prison, and "had passed on lh1·ough one slr;•el," the t'UJ,I'O:.f'fl an~c) "departeti rr:em
him"-probnbl}' he tool< one street, as n n1nn would have done, and thnt Peter took anotl1er.
Now although this J;Upposed angel conducted precisely as a 111:111 "ould hn' e clone, and at--
though Peter said,at the time, thnt the whole tran:onction apprnrP.d to him lilie n dream, yetafter·
ward:i he said he knew certainly "tlwt the LoJ·d had sent his Al'iGEL to ddi,·er him." 'l"his
fact shew5 the super~tition of the man, and his readiness to attribute, to the supernatunl&.
terference of Deity, occurrences that could be accounted for in a natural manuer.
A paragraph, heginning at the ~3d and ending ut the 2Sth ,·erse of.Act!i: ~Sth, llhews by hcMr
simple an affair Paul was led to imagine that the Lord had given up to destruction the J~,
whom theretofill"e Jesus had been supposed to be sent more e!Opecially to sa\·e; and that It
was his (Paul's) duty to abandon them, nnu preach to the Gentiles.
If any one wish for fm·ther el·idence of the weakness and superstition of the ApoJttles, or
their corn·erts, let him read the Acts throughout, and if he he nn unprejudiced mnn, he
see evidence enough of these facts at every step. ·
I must now suppose that the manner in which Chri~tianity wns propnJ.!ated, bas ~
pointed out so as to make it apparent that there wns nothing miraculous in it. But if JfW1
wiJI still insist that Christianity is a revelation from God, mode to men tosa\'e their souls, let hnt~,
if he can, account for the fact thnt God did not cause it to be spread over the 1\'hole world •
once, in a year, or day. It was as important, if this system be true, that it.should b~ s~1
as that it should be revealed, and God could have miraculously spread 1t, as eas1lv liB fti,
could have miracu)ously re\·enled it. There is no sense in saying that he hag commiu. .
men the business of spreading this religion ; for it is manifestly absurd to suppose thfl .De
THE EARLY SPREAD OF CHRlSTIANITY. 7
would entrust to men the completion of a design, which he had himself commenced, and
which it was so immensely important to have completed at once; when he must have known
the beggarly success that men would meet with. How happens it then that the Christian,
after eighteen centudes, is a religion of such li1nited prevalence? How happens it that this
wonder-wm·king Revelation, which set out to revolutionize and reform society, and save the
human 1·ace, has not become more geuera1ly known in the wor1cl?. vVhy, one reason is, that
it is not, after all, quite so wonder-working an affair as it has been cried up to be. And an-
othet• reason probably is, that the Almighty, instead of miraculously aiding its progress, nevet•
ha.'J miraculously aided it. 1
But, above all, how tomes it to pass that such a sovereign cure for souls has not been more uni-
versally adopted tvhet·e it is known 1 One reason may have been that men have often doubtetl
whether souls have any mortal diseases; and another has been, that this alleged specific has
found somewhat of an obstacle in the common sense and reason of manldnd. Sensiule men,
particularly in modern times, have generally had doubts, ·or some thing more than doubts,
whether this pretended revelation was after all any thing more than the offspring of super-
stition, delusion, or imposture. In short, they have not believed it. A considerable portion
of the rnale adults, who p'retend to be Ch-ristians, do not believe it. They wish to believe it;
they think it best to believe it (pecause they think it useful)- they dread to disbelieve it-
they have a sort of lingering reverence for it-they perhaps persuade themselves that, on the
whole, they do believe it- yet they do not in reality. They have a p'rej-udice in its favor-
not a conviction of its tt·uth founded on evidence. They cannot help suspecting that it is a
thing not to be inqui•·ed into; that it is neither reasonable in itself, nor founded on reason-
able evidence. One proof of this is found in the fact that they are afraid to have the com-
munity inquire into the evidences against it, or to have these evidences propagated, and this
at a time too when it i::; the established po1icy of society to encourage discus,slons on other
matte1·s as being the sm·est means of eliciting the truth. The Clergy especially would shut
out every thing like light, and stifle every thing like inquiry on this subject, and the misera-
ble rant and declamation, to which, instead of argumertts, they resort to effect these objects,
shew that they at·e aware that Christianity will not bear an examination. Although they
know that a laa·ge portion of the male part of the community are ur:..Uelievers, they choose to
let thern remain such, if they will but l<eep silent, rather than to run the risk of a more gen-
eral overthrow of Christianity by a discussion, which they might awaken for tfie purpose of
establishing it. When they are pressed ''1
tith arguments against the t1·utlt of Christ-ianity,
they attempt to divert the puhlic mind to the question of its u ti1ity, as if its truth was not
the first thing to be settled. Why this mean unmanly practice of subterfuge and shuffling ?
this refusal to meet argument? This shrinh:ing from the responsibilities of their station ? It
is, as I believe, because that, like other hired troops, they have no principles \'Vhich require them
to put at hazard their interests. It is because their cowardice, selfishness or pt·ejudices are
too strong for their consciences and reason. It is because they are hut too certain that if a
free di.:;cus5ion of this subject he permitted, truth, OQ,erating ou their own minds, or the
minds of the people, will re<1uire them to abandon their calling, and surrender their conse-
quence in society. It is, :in short, because that, at the bottom of all their other opinions and
feelings on this subject, the•·e is a lurking apprehension, (I dare almost say convict'ion,) that
their disgusting system is but chaff.$
'*I trust the time is not far distant, when the mora] courage of the more intelligent and independent por-
tion of the community will be sufficiently aroused to expo:;e, without reserve, the dishonest and coward-
ly practices of these men j when their attempts to dissuade weak and timid minds fi·om the examination
of evidence ; to keep the re·asons and arguments of their opponents out of sight; ~nd to so 1i11 the minds
of their dupes with vulgar and superstitious fears and prejudices as to deprive them of all mental liberty
on this subject, will receive their merited condemnation; and when the efforts, which, instead ofmeeting
the arguments of men, they are now so zealously making, by Sabbath-schools and otherwise, to forestal
the judgments and permanently rivet the faith of the young, by impressing and deluding their imagina-
tions, before they are caJ?able of reasoning, will be rega~ded as a nefurious artifice for perpetuating their
own influence by deprivmg the human mind of its rights, and truth and reason oftheir power.
CHAPTER II.
The Nature and Charactet· of Jesus.
Before proceeding to the examination of the aJleged miracles of Jesus; 1t is desirabte tha.t
we form a_n established opinion in relation to his personal nature and character; for if we
suppose hun a mere man, we 5hall be the more ready to suspect that his alleged miracles
w~re not re~l: on the other hand, if we give him a super.-.human nature, we shall he mot·e in-
ch_ned to belteve the contrary. What evidence then is there, previous to his beginnig to worl'
mtracles, that tends to shew that he was possessed of any other than a: human nature?
8
THE DEIST'S REPLY.
\Ve a.-e told, iu the first place, that he. h~d a miraculou~ o~igi~; that. God (or the Holy
Ghost) wa:'i his litther, (1\lat. i. 20-Lul'e 1. Sa), and Luke (t. Sa) ~1.ves th1s fact as the reason
wlty he was to be called the Son o~ God. But let us s~e.wbeth~r thts fact wer~ so.
1t is clear, on the one side, that 1f he had such an or1gm, no smgle human .bemg could ba':e
bad personal or absolute knowledge of the fact except h.is mother•.~ow, 1f we bad the di-
rect declaration of the mother that such was the truth, 1t would j:Je Idtocy to pretend tha~ a
fitct, admitted to be contrary to the order of nature, and ·such as th~ whole ~vorld never wit-
nessed before or since ouaht to he taken as true, on the bare asseruon ofa smgle person, and
of a Jlet·soll too who 'on ~he natural su~position in relation to her case, must have been under
' ' . d .
one of the strongest of all possible eart ly t.empt~t1ons to ece1ve. . .
But we ha,·e not e''en he1· testimony to thts pomt. Vve have only the simple declarations,
made by two men (Matthew and Luke) more than forty year:; afteto.war~-men, who could
not have personally known the truth of what they stated; ~ho unqu~stto~ablJ: never heafd
a syllnblc of the matte1· until thirty o1· forty years from the t1me .when It was sa1d to have QJ-
curred · who ah•e us no account, either of the manner in which, or of the persons them
whom, 'they obtained their information ; and w~o differ widely in their acc?u~1t o~ the cir":,lh-
stanccs nttendiorr the transaction-Luke relntmg many marvellous prelunmar1es of w.bieh
.1\fntthew mal(e:tno mention, although they are such as he too would be likely to haver..-,
if he bad evea· heard of them. No\\·· he must have hea1·d of them, if he had obtained his irt-
formation of the pdncipal fact from Ma1·y, who was the only per~on that could have abso-
lutely known that fact, if it were true. •
It is evident, therefore, that each of these men took up some one of the unattested stor1es,
floating in that superstitious, credulous, ignorant, and deluded commu·uity, forty years after
the supposed transaction.
After Jesus had begun to preach, many believed him to be a super-human persoaage, aad
it is easy to see that that circumstance alone would gi,•e rise, among those simple meab!:,
many conjectut·es about his origin ; and evea·y one of his followers would be desirous to
lieve that it was supernatural, anrl would, for the sake of thus believing, catch at the slil(bt-
est suggestion, conjecture o1· circumstance, as sufficient evidence that it was so. StOJ'JN,
thus originating, would tU once circulate and gaiu currency among such a class of men uJds
followers were ; and the marvellous character of the stories, instead of being an objectioa to
their credibility, would only make them the more cr.edible to the minds of those wbo were
ready and eager to believe any thing supel"llatural, in •·elation to one, whom they conad&led.
the most marvellous personage that had ever appenred on earth.
But there is no ground for any pretence that he had a miraculous origin, unless he deriv.ad
it in the particular manner •·elated in the Bible ; and in orde1· to believe that he derived it io
that manner, it is necessary to believe-what? 'Vhy, that Deity became physically a pa-
rent! (Luke i. 35). The verse is here simply refet·red to, without being quoted 1 for it is it
only to IJe recorded with some of the fabulous accounts of the J llpiter of the ancients.•
As to the miraculous occurrences at his birth, such as the appearances of angels in the air,
&c. there is no more reason to believe that they actually took place, than there is to belieYe
that those did, which are related to have happened at the birth of .1\lahomet-uor even •
much (if there can be the slightest reason in the worlc! for believing either); for those peo-
ple among whom Christianity first spread, were probably even more 8imple and supe~
than those among whom .l\1ahometanism first spread, and consequently such marvellous ac-
counts,ifeq';lall~untrue, wo~ld IJemore lik~ly togaincurrencyamougthem than amongt~laaer.
But the Btble Itself contams the most d1rect pt·oof that the aceounts about his origao, ud
about the supernatural appearances at the time of his birth, are both untt"Ue.
If either of th~se circumstances had been true, his own parents must ha\·e preserved tie
remembrance of at, and wou~d forever afte1·, have lool(ed on him asan extraordinary bein,. Btat
the. story, which is told of his conduct at Jerusalem when twelve years old, woultl, j lftl'e,
ent1rely prove th.at, up to that time, they had not so viewed him. 'rhis story (Luke ii. .CS tG
50) represents h~s parents as being "amazed" at seeing him in the temple ; and wben :Mt
asked t~em, "''Y1st ye uot that I must be about my father's business?" "they uoder-stoed -.l\
the say10gs which he spake to them." Now, if the accounts in relation to his birth wwe .
true, they must have forever after viewed him as tlie Emanuel, and must, of necessity, iee
und~1·sto?~ what h~ meant by being abo!-lt his father's business. So that either Luke's ...,..,
of h1s orig1!1 an.d barth, or the one of has conduct at Jerusalem, must necessarily have been
false ; and 1f edher of them be false, the Bible is not a Revelation from God. There~~
r?om for. reasonable doubt, that one story is as false as the other, and that these ignorant
s1mple b10gruphers, who have related s? many things, (of which these are a part,) that
could not have known to be true, even 1ftbey were true, picked them up thirty, forty or
years after they relate them to have happened, from among the thousand unfounded 01188,
that would naturally be in circulation about him.t ·
.* Some ~ay perhaps believe that this verse was not intended to convey sucb a meanio~ as I h~-·
tnbuted to lt-6ut can such persons tell us what other definite idea can be gathered from n ?
t 'Ve have evidence that there actually were ~n circulation after his death, and in credit amOJlM
THE NATURF. ANn (!Jt.\RACTF.Il OF JESUS.
Ag~in. If even t~e story .of his c~mcluct nt Je~usale'!' nlone had IH'~n true, he must from
that UrlJe have been VIewed wtth nston1slune ut by bts farndy, and rcgan.lcd hy them ns nn un-
comm?u being. If they had been, .(as. they pro.bnhly ,~·ct:e,) as superstitious as the ignot·:1nt JHH't
of the1r countrymen ge ne1·nlly, ttu~ ~mgle lllCtdeut of h1s conduet nt J et·usaleiiJ would have
mnde hi111, in rheir eye:;;, au iuspired IIJHII. Yet there is not, thnt I :un nwat·e of the :sli~rhr est
eville uce that, after this time, until !Je began to preach, they did so look upou t.'illl. o~. the
contrary, there .is the most direct ru·o,~f t!J:~t his. brotlters ~Jid not-for wlleu he pretcnclcd to he
nblc to work mJmcles, they tauuted IJJ{JJ wnh l11s prcten~wus, (John 7-9, 4 aud 5) by telling
him, if he coulcl .do such things, to show hituself to the world, und ulso (evidently out of con-
tempt towards hun for the cour~e lte had talwu) that no man, who sought to muk c IJiHJ:self
publicly linown, pel'fon11ed hi:-; 11aimcles in :;ecret. Tld:s disre:-;pcct and 'c:outcrnpt they never
would have exhibited toward~ l~i!11, if ~hey had ever been iuforurf'd hy their parent:;;, (as they
undoubtedly would have beeu: If the CII'CUtlll-;tauccs hacl ncltJUIIy hnppcned, uud that too t(n·
the very purpose of pi'Ocuriug hiut re:;pcct fr<HII then•,) either of his lH1 Vi11g lwd a n.i•·aculous
origin, of uuy rernadwhle circuiJistanees attcud iug his hirth, or that he hnd-e \·er exhiuited to
them any of thnt precocity, which he is related to ha ve displayed at J erusalem.
Furthernaot·f', if Go1l were ever to ''iolate the ordel' of nutnre, he wendel not he lil<e1y to do
it unnece;;snr·ily-ancl nn uccurreuce , snch as that in which Je:-:us is said to have had hi~ origin,
must have been useless, on the suppo:-:ition that men would net rationally in judgiug of its re-
ality from the testimony of the only one, who coulrl have hnd ahsolure knowledcre of the fact.
Finally, Jesus was human jn all his appearance, from his youth up; he is SUJ~po~ed to have
labour·ed lil\e a man ; he lived like a man ; he lool<ed lil\e u nmn ; his own hrother~ esteemed
him as nothing bnt a man; he was bo·1·n of a 'Woman; ::wd uuless God were his father, he was
n 1t1an, nnd nothing but a man.
But Christiaus say there is still other evidence-separate from the rnit·aculous-which tenus
to suat.ain the diviuity of Jesus. \Vc are told by them that the moral gl'andeur and impor-
tance of the oltiect, at which he i5 said to have aimed iu his puhlic cat·eer, is of this l<iud.
Now, as it is pos~iule that a mistal{e exists as to the nature of this object, son•e iuquiry in re-
lation to 1t 1::: proper.
Ther·e has always been a disagreement between the Jews and Chri~tians, as to the real
de~ign of Jesus in attempting to gain followers in the manner he did. The Jews always con-
tended-and they ~urely had the pwper means of tmowing-thnt he was only one of many,
who started up nearly at the same time, and claimed to be enti tled to reign over the Jewi~h nation
as tetnpoml, or pel'hayi~ rather as semi-tentporal, semi-spiritual ldngs-as sul'~h kings, in short,
as the one, wh1)lll th(J' Jews, w ho depended specia1ly upon the Almightv to send them rulers,
expected would, about that time, be sent to them. ~
It hnd been predicted, by those, whom the Jews considererl prophets, that an extraordinary
k1n~, to he called the Me:;siah, woul(l be sent to that nation.
What the particular te.t·ms of all the pl'edictions were, need not here be set forth, since it is
nd111itted by CIH·istians that they were such, as that the universal opinion, gathered from them
by the Jews, to whom they were addressed, was, that this Mes~iah was to be at least n tem-
J>oJ·al, though perhaps also a religious, 1·uler.
It 1s admitted hy Chl'istian writers tbat, at and about the time of Jesus., a large number
• of pe•·sons appeared )n Judea, who claimed to he the l\1e:;;siah that had. been predicted as
about to co111e, and who went about attempting to gain adherents by pretending to work
m)l'acles, &c.*
It is further admitted by all Christians, that the .Jewish nation en masse .looked upon Jesu8
as having the same object in view as these other pretended Messiahs; and it is also arlmitted
by many Christians, that up to the very time ""hen Je~ns was taken and crucified, even his
own conficlentia1 and immediate adherents, who, if Jesns had heen honest towards them,
must have lmown his real purposes, so far lookerl upon him in the same light as did the Jews,
and in the san1e also as it is supposed the followet·s of the other pretended .Messinhs looke1l
upon them, ns to believe that he was aiu1ing at the acquisition of the temp01·al govemment of
the Jews. And yet Chl'istians now say that it is reasonable to believe that Jesus, ulthough he
claimed to he the Messiah, aimed at an object widely different from what was universally ex-
pected of that Messiah, and at an object widely diffet·ent fl·om what, during nearly the whole
• of his career, h1s o'vvn adherents supposed him to be pursuing.
lowers, a great variety of stories about miraculous occurrences of the most ludicrous character i magina-
ble, though hardly more ludicrous than some related in the four gospels. That evidence is furnished by
those books, (now .Published under tbe title of the '1
Apocryphal New Testament") which were discnrded
as not being canomcal, or at least as doubtful, by the Council of Nice, about three centuries after Christ.
As they are now admitted by Christians to be false, on that admission they prove aU I wish to prove by
them, viz. that after the death of Jesu~, there were many stories in cit·culation respecting him, which
rested on no authority but the tongue of rumor, and we are to judge whether these narratives, which are
now esteemed by Christians, canonical-considering how manv years after the death of Jesus they were
written-are not as likely to have been gathered in part from s{mple rumor, as those others.
*For a more full account of these Messiahs, see Rev. Thomas Newton's Dissertations on the Prophe-
cies, Chap. 19, also Josephus, Book 2d. Chap. 13. Several of them were finally put to death. Some of
·them succeeded in gaining a muoh larger number of fo~lowers thnn Jesus, in. his lifetime, ever bad.
(}
_.
..
10
THE DEIST'S REPLY.
N
·
1
· 1 r that the~e admis."ions of Christians, as to what were, up to the time or hit
OW I 15 C ea ~ oJ - • ' h' l d • d •
•
1
• • tile ostensible llesiuns of Jesus, and theu pretensions as to 1s rea es1gns urmg
cruel lXlOn, e • h ~ 1 · 1 h
the ::;neue period, cnn be reconciled only by supposmg, t at~ ·~r so o!lg a t1m~, at east, e
knowingly cheated and c.Jecei\·ed bis be~t, truest, and l~lO:St JDtlf!late friends. ~tIs.preposterOUS
to sn) _:a:O chl'istinns are obligeeI to clo, 111 order to extn~nte t~eu case from th1s dtlemma-that
th~:-e di~ciples were such clunc~s, (nlth.ough that they \\~re sample. men I agre~) that, fo! a
,·ear nnd a half or more, (the ttme he •s.supposed to have bee!~ wtth tbem),Je:sus foun~ltllll•
po~.:ible to make them un.ilerstand the difference between a bet!lg, who ~ame to .esta~hsh
nnh·er:llal religion, nud one who came mere}~ to govern, as a kmg, the httle territory of JU...
den; because men so foolish as that supposatJOn w~u~d make them, could never have beell
eclucnte(l !'io M eren to be what some of these dtsctple~ ~fte~wards became; and be~Qee
nl~o men could hardly be so sim}Jle as to be unable to d1stmgu1sh between thmgs so ~~1
different. .
It 111ay be true, and probably is, as John says, (!S-SG!) that, after .h••follot~~~•!t«<'.d'
ed l1.im.., and lte found himself in the powe1· of h-,s ene~ues, be told P1lnte that h1~ I~ID
was not of thi~ world;" but he appears t~ have been bJmself brought to that co_nvJCUO\J
nt that time, and solely hy the fact that hts former.supporters had abandoned h1s cau.e
he immediately adds," if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servantsficbt,
J :-hould not be delivered to the Jews; but NOW is my kingdom notf-rom hence."
But whatever may have been his opinion of himself, or whatever may have been hil own
idea~ of the destiny for which be supposed God had designed him, after be was apprehaded,
the evidence i5 abundant as to what bad previously been his purpose.
One impot·tnnt part of thi_s evidence is, that Daniel-the only one, I believe, or the BUP.IJ08:"
ed pmpheto:, who meutions a .1\le~iah by that n~me-bad evidently describet! hi~ ~Cilg!.9
-25, 26,) as one, who was to be the temporal kmg of the Jews; ancl Jesu!, JmagtDJDI ~J~b­
tlelf to be this .Messiah, would naturally try to fulfil the prediction by making himself,.......
the ,)e~cription os well as he could. And we RCcorrlingly find that he not on]y eondll'fll".
repre!lentcd himself as the Messiah, but that there is also an eYident attempt, on the ttfiJir
hi~ biographers, to make it appear that he bnd fulfilled the predictions, which had beeJIJIIiilt
concerning the ~:Iessiab. ·
Another piece of el·idence, to the same point, is found in John, (6-15,) where it !1.~
ed that the people, who followed him, wished then "to take him by force, and malt .lfm
king;" a thing, that, it would naturally seem, they never would ha\'e thought of, had ·.11 ao'
intimattd to them that he was, at some time, to become their king.
Another fact, which shows that he expected to have become the king of the .Jews, ie ....
he once rode fi'Om Bethany to Jeru.salenJ in a very triumphal and kingly manner, attendd,
ly
a grent b•Jdy of men, who \vere·shouting ill a mnnner clearly indicative of their belie( tbtt-M
was a fles:ceodant of David, and was about to take possession of the throne which Davilul
occupied. (Mat. 21-1 to 11. Mark 11. Luke 19-28 to 44. John 12-12 to 15.) Nowif
he did not intend to become their king at this time, as they expected, he was frauclulentlr
sanctioning the mistake, under which he must have known they were acting, nnd mast haq
l'nowingly led them on in a delusion. The only supposition therefore, that is consistent witt
his hon~ty, is, that he hiniself expected at this time to he made king. •
It DPJ'ears also (John_12-I~, !5) that "it had been written," that ~ king of Jeraalo•
t~hould come to that city, "slttmg on an ass's colt," and Jesus at th1s time took pain• 1e
have an 9:5s's colt obtained for him to ririe on, (Mat. 21-1 to 7.)
John htm~elf acknowledges (12.-16,) tbnt even "his disciples understood not these
at the first;" that is to sny, at the time when they not only saw but joined in all this
r~, they cli~l not un~erstaod that they were paying homage to ~ne, who was 'to be as»litiW~
lung; and tf they d1d not so understand, there can be no doubt as to what kind of a
they.thought they were honoring. So that Jesus, accordinu to the express ac.kn,o\lrletliiiDti.S
of h1s olyn ~dvocate, must either ba!e deceived this whole~rowd of followers, or he
ed .at ~has tame to have been made lung; because the impression, that he was aboutto
thear lung, c~ulrl not have become .so univer~al, and continued so long, among thiscrClrw.il
le~s .he h~:l dare?tly countenanced Jt. John mdeed represents {12-16) that after '~.,.lllftl
gl?nfied, .(or rasen, ~s they supposed, from the dead,) they understood exactly what ...,._.
thmgs~ whach at the t1me ofthe11· occutTence, they d~d •.1otrightly undet·stand, must have mt&t.
But th1s was all an afte,r t~ougbt, on the.part ofthe d1sc1ples, and is therefore good for ootJIIII
the advocate of Chrt~t1am!Y, altb.ou~h 1t enables the unbeliever to see bow it was, that
pearance of JeiUS afl:r hu crucijianon, (a thing for which they could not naturally
tnr11ed the heads of h1s followers, and made them see every event 'vhich had ~-•
tnk.en place,.in a ve.ry different light from that true and natural one, in which they t.l•
ed It at the t!me of Jts occurrence. After he was "glorified " the'!} "glorified" and
e~l hevedry thmg that he bad previously said or done, and, byso doing they gave to
mer te world a Revelation fit for use. '
'\Vhen Jesu~, it'! this triumJlbal ride, had come near to Jerusalem, (Luke J9-S7
8~ie of the Pharisees told hnn to "rebuke his di!9Ciples u (meaning undoubtedly
ctp es,' the crowd gener~lly who "·ere att~nding him,) andtbey woulCI be likely, un'aeJra
oum•tanceat, to say to b1m many other tbmgl!~ wbieh hie biographers would not elllliMif
THE N..\.TURE AND CHAlUCTEn. OF JESUS, 11
to us. But the fact, that the Phari5ees, who were among the pl'incipal men of the Jews, told
him to •·cbuke his followers, shows that they hut! no idea of receiving him, and he wa::; prob-
ably thereby convinced that he coul<.luot be made king, for he immediately falls into a lamen-
tation for the !"ate or the city-not fot• the .souls of the Jews, as be would nuttll'ally have done,
ha<l he de~igued to be ouly a spi l'itual redeetller-hut !'or the f'ate of the eity it:.;elf. He vir-
tually says that if the Jews woulu have aceepteu him as king, their city would have heen
safe; but now, he says, that "jts eue111ics shall cast a treueh uuout it, ancl eompa:.;s it m·ouiHJ,
and keep it in on evet·y side, and lny it even with the grouucl," &c. Now this is nut the lan-
guage of a purely spiritual teacher; it i..; preci;-;ely suc:h languag-e us we might rea~ouahly ex-
pect to hear from a man, \vho wished to be the ruler of n people, hut who, 011 beino· rejected
as such, should endeavor to alarm their fears f01· the fate of theit· city. Or it• is ~uclt lan-
guage as we might rea~onahly expect to hear from a 111a11 so deluded as to imagine that he
had been appointecl by God to he the deliverer of a city, I.Jut, who, on finding that he coulJ
not become its deliverer, shoul<l suppose, as a matter of course, that it would fall into the
hands of its enemies autl be destroyed.
The desertion of Jesus, by his follo\-yers, fumishes an argument in support of the su;>posi-
tion that he attempted to be king of the Jews, rather than that he was a superiot· being. fhere
was a rime when he had a company, estimated at about five thousand, following hi111, (John
6-2, 10). Yet they soon began to leave him, (John 6-66, 67) and but a handful finally re-
mained. Now it woulcl be nothing strange that the followers of a man, who wns attempting
to make himself king of the Jews, should, after a little time, desert his cause; hut it would
be very stt·ange if a Son of God should either be unable to make pt·osclytes of all who should
come to heal' him, or should fail to keep them after he had once made them.
·\Vhen he was finally taken prisoner, the universal charge against him wns, that he hnd
claimed to he the "King of the Jews." The people scofied at, ancl insulted him, on that very
account. They placed a mimic crown on his bend, put on him a purple rohe, and jeered
him witn "Hail, King of the J ews." How are this unanimous opinion of him, and senti-
ment towards him, to be accountedfo·r, otherwise than by supposing him to have attempted
to make himself a king? The answer is obvious-they cannot otherwise be accounted for.
Luke says also, (23-1, 2) that men declared uefore Pilate, that they had "found that fel-
low pel'verting the nation, and forb·idding to give t1·ibute to Ccesa·r, saying, that he himself is
Christ, a King." Yes, he even went so far as .to forbid his adherents any longe1· to pay trib-
ute unto Cresar, and gave as a reason why they should not, that he hirn~elf was a king, (their
king). But Christians will pt·obably say that these men dicl not speak the truth. And what
reason have we to believe that they did not? Did any one contradict what they stated? No
-every body, at that time, acquiesced. Still, because they told a natural and probable ~tory
about Jesus Christ, instead of a marvellous anrl improbable one, they are not to be creclited;
because they made neither a God, nor a Son of God, out of "this fellow," they must be set
down as "false witnesses;" because there were several, who said that they heard the same
language, they must all have conspit·ed to destroy him by false testimony; because their state-
ments corroborate, and are corroborated by, what had already become notoriously the public
belief, they must of course be untt·ue; becaus@, in short, these men testified against Jesus, in-
stead of testifying for him, they are not to be believed. This is the kind of reasoning to
which Christians must resort.
Jesus once told his disciples (Luke 22-28 to 30) in substance, that as a reward for their
fidelity to him through all the difficulties and opposition be had met with, he should give each of
them a kingdom, and that they should "sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel."
Now if he meant earthly thrones, he of course was hirnself to be an earthly kin~, for his lan-
guage evidently implies that his twelve disciples were to be kings unde1· hirn. His language
is, "I appoint unto you a kiugrlorn, as my Fathet· hath appointed unto me; that ye may eat
anrl drink at my table, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel." Observe, they
wete to eat and drink at his table at the same time that they were to be kings over the triiJes
of Israel; of course, if their th1·ones were on earth, his table must have been on earth too,
anrl be must have been an earthly king. But the Christian will reply that the~e th•·ones were
to be thrones in heaven. Well, be it.so-what then is the inference? \tVhy, that they have
KINGS in heaven.
The evidence already offered ought, as it seems to me, to be decisive; but there is one ad-
ditional f."lct, which, if it do not prove that he attempted to make himself kin~, does, nevel·-
tbeless, put it beyond a reasonable doubt, that, up to the time when he wa~ seized, he harl had
no sueh ohject in view as Christians pt·etenrl. It appears (Luke 22-36, 37, 33,) that in the
evening before he was apprehended, and after Judas had left the room under circumstances,
which led Jesus to suppose that he was going to prove treacherous, he directed his remaining
disciples to provide themselves with swo1·ds, evidently in order that they might he prepared
for any danger, that might ensue. And when his di::;ciples told him' "here are two swords"
-(an incident, which shows that after their affairs began to grow desperate, they kept
swords by them) he assented to their taking them by ans-vvering "it is enough;" and it ap-
pears aftenvards that the swords were accordingly taken. Now I suppose it can hardly he
necessary to go into an argument, even with Christians, in o1·der to prove that a 'real ''Prince
of Peace,'' a pi:u·ely religious or moral teacher, or any Divine Being, just as he was ubout to
12
THE D.EISr's R!.PLY.
oft"er u hi~ lire voltLnlarily for mankind, would not be very likel~ to p~t $1DOTU into the hand•
r h
. pfi 1
1 Tl1
e ~·1nale fact that Jesus should ever authorize h1s followers to arm thelD·
o ts o owers. :! o ' -·L t · d •
I
"th ord" brush...::~ away at a single sweep, all tht" lr.waeq~ten conJectures an asser•
se vcs w1 sIV "' .... ' d · h t • d d } t . b
· r t l i~Tnoranl simple and deln•led men, who followe h1m, t at 1e 1nten c on y ,o. e a
ltonslo .leel't ~·tons te~cher The confidence too, with which, when he was about to be seized,
mora or r ;.. • · · h h · d~" d th e 1"n
hi3
tJj5
ciplt>s r1 ppca1ed to him with "Lord, !)hall 've 1nule wit t e swur • ZLn e mann ~
which reter rushed on and strudc off an enr of one of the part~~ sh!lw th~t Jesus had g1ven
them othP.r lc:4suns thfln that of turning the other c~1eek also. Nor 1s. the mferPnce, naturally
to be drawn frumthese f:t.ctt:, tn be avHicled, by s?.ymg that ~esus forh1d the further use o.f tbe
swor1
1s. after Peter had thus employed his; because it is ev1deo~ that h.e encouraged their use
until he round the number~ ag•una1t him to~J great to ~e res1~ted w1th t~.afety. Thelie cir-
cumst.·.nces show that his command to his disciple:., to des1st from further nolence, was a mat•
ter of poliey instead of principle. . • •
There can be no doubt as to the fact, that this party had S\Yords w1th them at th1s tune,
fi>r it does not rest on 1he tPstimony of Luke alone, !\Iatthew and John, who were of t.he
twelve, a11tl probably were on the spot at the time, both soy that a man's ear was cut otf ,vat.h
a sworcl.
It is clear. therfore, from tht>se facts, th.1t Jesus could. n.ot have heen such a personage H
Chri;atians believe him to have been ; anc.l 1f he was not, 1t IS of no consequence to us what be
mav hnv~ bt!nn, althousrh the e,·idence may }e;tve lis in no doubt \n rE'lation to it.
•fatting it foi grnntecl thea~,tha~ the .t!vid~nce ha_.; ~ettled the question, so far as it was necessary to
be settlt•d in relation to lu~ obJect m h1s pubhc career, we come now to another Dlllt.ter, to
which Ch;islians reft>r as evic.lence of his divinity, viz, thd allegP.d perfect;on of his personal
character. This ,;oint will be examinell, although somewhat of his personal character bu al~
ready been developed. . . . .
Perhaps the most con!picuous defects tn hts personal character were, 1st, h1s readmess to re•
sort to subterfurre, when challt"n~ed to work miracles, by those who doubtecl hia miraculous
power; 2d, his propensity to practice concealment; and 3d, his notorious cowordice. A few iD·
stances only of conduct, illustntive of each of these charact~ri~tics, need be referr~d to.
As evidt•nce of hi:; readiness to resort to ~ubterfuge, when challenged to work nuracles by
those who tloubted his miracnlous power, the following cases ard dPemed sufficient.
On one occasion (Mark_8-11 to 1:1) when some of the Phariseess came to quest1on him, aad
asked him to ~how them a sign-apparently that thP.y might judue of the justice of hts clauae
to be the i\less1rth·-he pretended to his disciple:; that these .Pharisees were a very unreason&•
ble set of men to ask such a thing of him, and said he would give them no sign, bul left
them ancl departed.
1\l:lrk snys thllt their object was to entrap him, or to worlc some miichief with him-but how
did Mark know thn.t th~}· h11d any other de:;ign than their question implies? 'l'he biograpbPn
of Jesus were very good at conjeclllrmg reasons, finding apologies, and hunting excuse• fer
the dastar•lly couclnel of tt.eir master.
At another lime, (John 2-13 to 21) when he had been attempting to drive the Jews from the
temple, an1l they had nsked him-as they reasonably might do-what ~ign he could give u...
as evidence of his ri2'ht to do so, ~he on!y sign he proposed to shcnv them was this, that if tbeJ
woul•l destrny !heir beautifullt!!uple-a thing which he knew of cour:ie they \voulcl not do-he
would rebnild it in three days. Is it possible to imagine an e\•asion more anean nr contemptitde?
John say:oJ that Jesus, _in this insutncf', referred to ·'the temple of his body.': But if be did,
he ncted the knave outright, because he must have known that he was deceh·ing those whom tie
ad1lrE'ssf'd.
Once (Lnke 4-16 to 30) in his travels he came to "Nazareth, where he had been bronrbt up,"
and where he was probably known. He here told the people that he wAs the one who bad ben
pruphesied of, ~ul virtu·,_
lly acknowledged that they had n right to expect he would work mt'*"
cles, for he s~1d, "ye w1ll aurely say unto me, whatsoe\"Cr we hnve l.Jeard done in Caperaauntt
d~ also h.erc 10 thy countr,r." But, as an excuse for nnt working any miraclt·s, he made •• 'if
th1s ~espacable pretence, ~1z: that h no prophe~ is accep~erl in his own count•·y"-inu&ade,
that 1t would be of no avatl even to work real mtrac~es before those who knew him. It appe-.n
-putting the. nnturnl construc1ion upon the remainder of Luke's ~tory-that the people there·
upo~ thrust hun out of the place, dra!!'ged him to the brow of a hill, frightened him by ~
tendmg to be about to east _him headlong down it, and then let him go. Ancl, in my jud...._
be l.aad no reason to compbm of 1he tre11tment he received.
" On an~ther occasion John s·ays (6-.'30) that the people put the question to him dt,_.
What s1gn showest thou then, that we may sPe, Rod bt>lieve thee? What dost thou~
It appears, from the context, that these men had t.Rken much pains to tind him and bad coiD'I:
from a ~istnnc:e to see hi!n; Bnd although their question indicates an intention'to be COi
nviiiiC!....
by nothmgless than a m1racle, they, at the same timo, declare their intention to believe ia
(the 'e~y thin; he desired of all men,) if he would hut work one plainly. In all thi11 thef
ed noth1_
og- wh1~h was .not entirely reasonable. They desired only tha:. he should exbibiC
credent1a_ls, wh1ch he professed t~ carry with hi!'l, as evidence of his authority. They, I
o1Fered h1mJuatsucb an opportun~t.y as a real muacle-worker would have desired. Bu'
TIIE NATURE AND CHARACTER 01" JESUS. 13
instead of working a miracle, chose to tnlk about something else, about their moth·es in follow-
ing him, nbout his being "the br<'atl that came down from heaven," &c., and went on talking
about one thing and another, that had nothing to do with tl1e miracle which they had cltalleng-
ed him to work, until (John G-GO, 61, G6, and G7) t.lte company ]eft him in e,•ident uisgust.
I suppose Ch ristians wonlcl say, ns John says that J esus in timated, (John G-2G) that he had
already wroug ht miracles before them, and sinee they did not give ltiau credit for them, it wos
not his business to go on worl::ing the111. Now this npology is but n poor complime nt to the
chnrnctcr of his mtracle.s, for it nssumt-Et lhat they did not convince eye-v;itncsses. llut-lenv-
inrr that cousidcration- lt ow die Jesus know that these particu lar men, who had now c;ome so
fa;, appareutly for no oth er reason than lo ascertain whether lte could worl< mirucles, had ever
before seen him ~vork what he called mir11c!es? Besides, their quest ion implies tiHl.t they never
had seen him work n miracle, and their declaration is, at lea:;:t, ns good, in such a case, as his.
A omitting it thereforu to be true-us we must do until the contr<~ry be unequivocally proved-
lhnt they never had seen a miracle wrought by him, he was without C'xcuse in refnl'ing them,
and Ids conduct is to be accounted for, only by supposing that he co~tld not work miracles be-
fore tho!le wlto were di!Oposed to insist upon ~eeing a real miracle, and not to be sn llsfiC'd with
one of tlte com111on kind of pre tended miracles, such as great numbers of persons, at thattime,
were in the huhit of performing.
Ano1her defect in his character, which was to be mentioned, was his propen~ily to practice
concealment. He again and again, when he had done something, which his biographers have
called a miracle. charged those, who were with ltim, '·to let no man know it." In one instance
(Mark 1-40 to 44) where he is said to have cure d n leper, after lte had done it, "he straitly
cha·rged him, nnd saith unto him, see thou say nothing to any man."
In a case, (Mark 8-22 to 26) where it is said that he cured a blind man, "he led the blind
man out of the town~' to do it; and not satisfied with that, he told the man, when the work was
done, '·neither to r,o into the town, nor telJ it to ~ny in the town."
In the case (Mark 5-37 to 43) where he is said to have restored to life the dead dau~hter of
Jairus, he suffered none but Peter: James, John and the father and moth<•r of the child to go
into the room with him, although others desired to ~o in; nnd when the scene was over, he
even '• ch~rged" those, who had been witnesses, ''that no man should know of it;" and John
in his biogr<lphy of Jesus, says not a word about it; and we are indebted, for such a story as
we ha\'e, to those who were not eye-witnesses.
In another in~tance, (.Mark 7-32 to 36) where he is said to have cured (after a great deal of
~pparently unnecessary ceremony) a man, who ,; was deaf and bud an impediment in his speech,"
'be charged" tho~e, who had been present, "that they shot1ld tell no man."
In still another case (Mat. 9-27 to 30) where it is related of him that he cured two blind
men, after the work was do11e, "he straitly charged them, saying, See that no man know it."
Is there any excuse for such conduct as thi' in a real miJ·nrle-worke'\"? Was not the taunt
of his brothers well applied, when they said to him, (John 7-4) in substance, that no man did his
works in secret, when he '"as seeking to malie himself publicly )mown, and told him, if he
could work mimcles, to do it before the world?
His brothers appear to have been men of some understanding-for, although they, like the
rest of their countrymen, helieved in ntiracles, yet they saw readily enough that fllr a pre>tend-
ed rniracle-worlwr, either to avoid the scrutiny of those who doubted his rniracuJous power, to
select the ri~ht k1nu of witnesses of his acts, ~r to be careful to have no witnesses at all, was
" no way to do things."
He appeaa·s also to have been very cautious, in the early part of his career, that tho public
should not lwow that he claimed to be the Messiah. He once (Mat. 16-13 to 20. :Mark 8-
27 to '30. Luke 9-18 to 21) asked his disciples," Who say the people that I am?'' And when
they had told him that men had different opinions about hims "He saith unto them, But who
say ye that I am?" Peter then expressed his belief that he was "the Christ.'' \Vhereupon
"he charged his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus, the Chriat." *
Cowardice was another defect in his character, and it is made so manifest thnt it cannot be
conce<tled. He repeatedly betrayed it by fleeing from his enemies, and by so doing, he must
have brought himself, and his pretensions into public contempt.
When his disciples came to birn, and told him that John the Baptist had been beheRded by
or~1er of Herou, (Mat. 14-12, 13) "he dep11rted into a desert place apart;, or, in plain .En-
gh ~h, h.ejled.
Joh~ says, (10-39, 40) in spealtir.g of another occasion, "Therefore they sought again to
tal<e h1 m, but he escaped out of their hands, and w~::nt away beyond Jordan, and there he abode;"
that is to say, he run away, and stayed away.
On another occasion also John says, (11-53 and 54) "Then from that day forth they took
council together for to put him to death. Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the
Jews."
•
*Some of the expressions, employed by the writers in relating this affair, appear to have been so un-
reasonably "glorified," that in order to put together a story which should appear natural and unstrained·
throughout, I have selected the most natural expressions from each of the accounts, instead of quoting
the whole of any single one. ·
14 THE DEIST'S D.E.PLY.
Matthew says, (12-14, 15, 16) in still another case, "Then the Pharisees went out, and held
council against him, how they might destroy him. But when Jesus knP.w it, be withdrew laim·
self from thence, and charged his followers that they should notmal(e him known:'' that is, he
took himself off, and told his frien<ls to let nobody know where he had gone.
John says again, (S-59) "Then took they up stones to cast at him; but Jesus hid bi...,lf,
and went out of the temple," &c. Yes, it seems that this Son of God, in a case of eme~
could even "hide" himself.
But the most contemptible instance of the cowardice of Jesus is related by JohP, (7
10) who says of him, that "he walked in Galilee, for he \vould not walk in Jewry, becauae
]ewes sou2ht to kill him." He then adds, that the feast of Tabernacles was at han and
his brothers wished him, if he could work miracles, to go up to the feast and peJrfolriJl-"*a11a
openly. They also taunted him with doing his works in secret. But neither so ici1:atilll
taunts could induce him to go with them. He attempted to excuse himst:lf by
world hated him; and said to them, "Go ye up to this feast, I go not up yet unto
my time is not yet full come." \Vhat then uid this man do ? This bold reformer t
tended 1\Iessiah? This man, who afterwards (Mat. 26-53) said that be could ~all
Fath~r, and J1e would give him more than twelve legions of ange·Js to protect him?
remained behind until his brothers had gone, "but (to use John's own language) ----
brethren had gone up, then went he also up to the feast, not openly, but as it were iQ
The man, who can read these accounts of hio secresy, his cowardice, and of b'-·:--iM!Ml!Wt
subterfuges to which he would resort to prevent an exposure of his incapacity to
before scrutinizing eyes, and not feel "ashamed of Jesus" as a .1\Iaster, must not
content to have a master, bot very indifferent in his choice of one. And be it
that those, who, after having had their attention called to this conduct of Jesus,
to advocate Chi'istianit.v, must practice the effrontery of pretending that this cr.eetiJilliL.,
ing, hiding, deeing felJo,v was acting a part appropriate to a Son of God, and ezbittiUH'~IiiWf·
feet pattern of moral greatness.
Such, be it remembered, is one part of the character given to this man by his b~ll~
It is no "enemy that has done this." lL all comes from men, 'vho evidently did not
let out any thing, which wonld make against their cause, but who happened to
always to know what it would be expedient to keep back. And we can easily _..._.~.~&,,. I•••b••
character given to this man by his friends, what an one would have been given to
unbelieving eye.witness, if such an one had cared enough about him to take the
posinl!' the whole of his conduct.
Christians have the opinion that Jesus, at last, delivered himselfup,
in2ly, a martyr for the benefit of mankind. No'v this opinion is founded entirely
prebable, to the rejection of the probable, part of the contradictory testimony in re]Qa;J
conduct on that occasion. The probable part of the testimony (alld there is eP411JUm:.lllitlll
my purpose,) goes, directly and manifestly, to sho'v that Jesus skulked and endeavoJrti'l~a~~u
ln this instance, in the same manner he had so often done defore.
But before introducing this testimony, let us look at the absurdity of that which
adopt. The lat~er is, that at the supper, on the evening before Jesus was taken, it
stood bet,~eeaa him and Judas, that ~he latter should betray him; that Jud~
room, obtamed a posse of men, went m search of Jesus, and found him, not m tbe
had left him, bot concealed in a garden ; that he approached him, addressed b
ami kissed him; that Jesus then addressed Judas as a friend, saying to him, :c F..~..~-•..
art thou come?" (Mat. 26-49, 50.) No.w ts it to be supposed that aoch a solemn
feeted friendship would have been acted over between two men, if it had been
derstood with certainty, that the one would turn enemy, and deliver the other ialo
those who \Vould put him to death?
It is nevertheless probable that, previously to the supper, Jesus had seen reason to
fidelity of Judas, and that, when he saw him leave the room, be apprehended th
attempt was to be made by Judas to have him seized. This supposition acc:.o~tatif.J
leavini the house, after the departure of Judas, and going as be did, in
night, 1nto the concealment of a garden. (John 18-1.) It is natural too, that,
preached him in the garden, Jesus, seeing that escape was imposaible, should re
reply to the salouu.ion of his suspected enemy, because he might have irritated
feared, if be had sbo\ved any suspicion of his malicious desjgn. But it is beyond ere
had previously been explicitly understood between them, that Judas should act the
Jesus should thus seriously address him as a friend.
This particular story about Jesus's conversation with Judas at supper was
or "glorified,'' by these apostles, out of something that had passed, as som..e
tiona appear to have been, for the purpose of making it appear that their "
Master', could not have met with any disaster, which he had not forseen, and tn1:endAid
Jesus's alleged predictions (which none of his disciples appear to ha\·e understood at
they were maJe) that he shoultl rise again, were probably manufactured, or " gln•ifi-.
something or other, and in the-.same way, to meet the necessities of the case, or
thing correepond with the ideu, which they hatl come to eDwrtaiD of Jesu, at
wrote.
TliE NATURE AND CHARACTER OF JESUS. 15
Perhaps it will be thought strange t!Jnt Judas should uave found Jesus in the night, if there
had been no previous conccl't between them. But John says (18-2) that Judas knew where
this garden was, and knew also that Jesus often went there with his disciples. lie therefore,
after having procured men to go with him, probably went first to the house where he l1nd left
Jesus and his disciples at supper, and on not finding them there, suspected this garden to hE' the
place of their concealment.
There arc several items of testimony, which tend to show that Jesus intended, at this time, to
escape the danger, which he apprehended to his life. One is, (Mat. 2G-24) that, at tiJc supper,
he said, in the presence of Ju,das, (whom, as was before rernarlwd, he probably suspected of hav-
ing a design ngainst him,) "wo nnto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed ! it had
been good for that man if he had not been born.'' \.Yhut was the occasion for such a rcmarl{,
unless it were intended as a menace to deter Judas from any attempt against his life?
Another is, (Jo~n 18-1) that after Judas hat! left the room, Jesus nn<1 his disciples left it also,
(although it was a dark night. ns is proved by the fact that those, who came to take him, carried
lanterns and torches, (John 18-3) for the purpose of finding him,) went away, crossed a brook,
and took up quarters for the night in a garden. Now can any reason be imagined why this man
should leave a house, and go into a gardeu, in the dar1mess of the night, and remain there, un-
less it were for concealment and safety ?
But there is less reason to suppose that Jesus had any other motive than that of conceal-
ment and secutity, in this instance, than there would be in the case of many other persons in
the Hl<e circumstances; because\it was a common thing for him to hide himself from his ene-
mies: and, moreover, if he had \vished, as Christians would have it, to offer up his life at this
time, he would have had this speeial reason for remaining where Judas had left him, viz: that
he might not fail of being found by those who were seeking to destroy him.
Another fact, too unequivocal and decisive to admit of argument, is, that in this crisis of
his affairs, he directed his followers to provide themselves with swords, and assented to theit
taking with them the two, which they had. (Luke 2Q-86 and 38).
The fact also, that some of his disciple~, when they saw that Jesus was lilrely to be taken,
evinced so much readiness to fight, ancl appealed to him to know whether they should not
u smite with the sword," show that they had looh:ed forward to such an exigency, and had
ma<le up their minds to defend themselves, if it should be practicable, and that he had no idea
of just then off'edng him5e1f up, o1· of being offered up, as a sacrifice for mankind-at least,
if he could prevent it.
Another item of the same kind of testimony is, that after he had come into the garden, he
directed his disciples to "watch," (keep guard), while he went and prayed, (lVlark 14-34).
"'VVhetl he returned also, and found them asleep, he said unto Peter, cc What, could ye not
watch with me one hour?" (~iat. 26-40).
Still another item is, that when Jesus discovered those who had come to talre him, he said
to his disciples, "Rise up, let us go: Lo! he that betrayeth me is at hand.'' (Mark 14-42).
"\tVhat is this but saying, "Let us run, 'lve'1·e going to be taken'J" But it was too late to escape,
for Mad~ adds, that "immediately, while he yet spal{e, Judas and a grea~ multitude, with
swords and staves, came," and, after Judas had designated the one to be seized, "laid their
hands on him, and took him."
Here is evidence enough, one would think, to satisfy any candid mind, possessed of common
discernment, that Jesus, in this case, as he had so often done before, sought, jn the n1ost cow·
ardly manner, to escape the fate that overtook him. His disciples indeed would represent him
as having courted denth, and perhaps, at the time when these accounts were wdtteu, the au-
thors bad brought themselves to believe, that he had actually desired to die for the benefit of
mankind. But we are to judge from the facts .themselves, and not from the subsequent con-
struction put upon those facts by simple men, who, as we can easily see, may have been,
"after Jesus had been glorified,'' and all that, in a state of perfect delusion in relation to the
meaning of the whole affair. _
The mannet· of Jesus, while upon the cross, is in strict accordance with the supposition of
his being a weak spirited victim, rather than a voluntary martyt·, conscious of the importance
and necessity of his dying, and refutes the pretence that he died for the purpose which Christ-
ians allege; for if such were the purpose of his dying, there was more in that purpose, to
one who could appreciate it, to ~ustain a man through·the scene, than any othe1· martyr ever
bad. But this man sunk under the infliction, said that God had forsaken him, and throughout,
disclosed the wealmess of his character.
His conduct too after his recovery from his crucifixion, if he did recover from it, corresponds
well with his conduct before it. He lurks about privately. He does not, as Peter, one of his
disciples, expressly aeknowledO'es, (Acts 10-41), H show himself to all people," but to a few
friends only-and to these he shews himself, as far as appeats by the evidence, but a few times
during forty days, and at those times "in the evening,'' and .within closed doors, (John 20-
19 ancl 26), or in some other pl"ivate and stealthy manner.
One other trait in his character deserves an allusion. vVe have some little evidence that
the notoriety, which he acquit·cd among· the ig-norant, pwdnced upon him somewhat of tho
effect which it frequently does upon vulgar minds, and none other5, viz: an idea that the hnp-
p1neee of those, who were once their e~uals, is not now to be con2idered in compnrison with
lG THJ! DEIST'S ll&PLT.
their own pleasure or convenience, an'l also an inftat~d assumpt.ion of superio~ity over. them.
He seems to have sometimes considered himself entitled, solely by the elevation of h1s rank
above thut of his followers, to servile and degrading manit~statbns of reverence from them,
and to have been very wiJiing ~o .1·eceive this kind. of' incens~ e~en at t_
he expc:ns.e n_f the
"weightier matters of t.he law," 1f at but served to ~ase the esumataon uf In~ superao_rn~ an the
minds of his followers. Look, for example, :lt the self-complacent assumption of dagmty and
importance, with which, when Ma~y haJ lavished che C<_)sl.ly ointment on h•: head, he rephe41 to
t.he remonstrance against the foohsh waste of what nnght hnve been made so valuobl., t? tlae
poor, (John 12-2 to 8.) He did not point out any good that was to come oft~~ act,_
but sllea.
ed the objector by intimating that \~hat had _been done was only~ proper mamtestatton of re.f•
erence towards so wonderful a bema as hamself; and added, m substance, that there were
ahvays :~o many poor, that it was of ~o importan~e to atten~ to their wunt.s ~hen h~ waa-pre·
aenl and when hia followers were blessed with un o?portunaty of appropnatmg their ftnl~'~lo
dem~nstratiuns of devotion towfl.rds him. And yet this man was t.he authm· of a religion "It·
culiarly adapted to the poor."
On another occasion (Lulce 7-38,) this delightful fellow permitted even a·ftmtJle to "IW••
his FEET,-to waali. them toith her teara-anrl to wipe them with the haiu of hea· head," and tet
women are now told that the author of this elegant act of gallantry was the founder of & rell·
gion, which their self-respect and a proper regard for the dignity of their sex, imperiou»lf re-
quire them to embrace.
But. Christians have a saying that Jesus "went about doing goo-
d." \Veil, supposing be did
for a year or two give t.is attention to "doing ~ood''-is there any thing so remarkable an the
fact that it can be accounted for only by supposang him a divine being? But how was thie mat-
ter? Did he really "go about, do_in.g good~'' \Va~ he "doing good" when he consented to
the fooli::Jh waste of "three hundaed pence worth of ointment, which nright have been eol'd aod
given to the poor?" Was he '' doing good," when' he suffered Mary to "kiss h1e feet ?11
Was he "doing good," when he sneaked up to the feast at Jerusalem in ser:rd' Was ke
"doing good," when he rode an ass's colt to Jerusalem, to make the people believe that lie had
been appointee! by the Almighty to be their king ? \Vas he "doing good," when he \ON his
followers to arm themselves wilh swords? \Vas he "doing good,'' when prnctising tbe mean
evasion~, the subtP.rfuges and the secresy, which have bern bt:lore referred to? "Why, nn, .per-
ho.ps not,'' the Christian will probably answer, "but then he healed a great many sh·k fulk~c
cast out a great, great many <le\'ils." But it is a supposable case, and pP.rhaps it will heM•
satisfactorily appear, that he could work only such miracles ns thuse, (where doubtletis th:l haa-
ginations of men did the business,) and that he wrought such more for the purpose of .....
adherents, and thus malting himself king of the Jews, than of "doing good."
But Christians will say u.at there is one kind of avidence, by which the divinity of Jeeu i1
uneqllivocally proved, and that is furni»hed by his mor:1l and religious instructions.
Now one objection to the moral anrl religious precepts and doctrines ascribed toJesus--ccm-
sidering them as eYidence of his divine nature-is, that a part of the moral ones are veryfill'f,
and a part of the religious ones are very blasphemous and absurc!-as anv person mav see, w.Jio
will takE' the trouble to read them with the view of seeina whether ..they are or r.oa.--...
another objection to them is, that it is not likely tho.t many ol'them were ever uttered lly ldla,
Besides, if a man, who should set himself up in opposition to a portion of the commluniitllllliilfl
the manner Jesus did, and should attempt to lead those whom he could persuade to~ ft1,
should no\v and then uttc.r a sentiment somewhat original and sing-ular, and correc&. wi'Wt it
would be no morP. than mt~ht reasonably be expected. \Ve generally see such tbing•ia edtJ
one, who has never had hrs mind moulded by intercourse with the many, and who at~ate
lead the f(nv. Such ~ n:an gener~lly has somethintr original and peculiar in his ideas.
One reason for behevmg that Jesus never utterea many of the sentiments ascribed to biaD.t w,
that a person attempting to prove himself such a Messiah ns the Jews expected, and to.ldljlh
himself their lting, would n?t be likel_y to give such instructions as are many of thoae -~~~~~
to Jesus-but he would be hkely to grve such as could very easily be '"glorified't *"''.
,,.,,_...
these are. For example, when he was addressing t.hose, who followed nim on the
that com~ined temporal and 1·eligious gover:unent, which he pretended to be'appointefi .Jnlililll-.t
to esta~hsh, he wo~Jd naturally spealt of his kingdom in terms, which could easily be ,. .w!IN'.o
fted" Into "the _
kmgdom of God," "the kingdom of heaven," &c. And che .Evaa~lllll.
although, at the tl~e he spoke, they uoderstoo~ h~m as referring to his kingdom among
would yet, at the lime they wrote, when therr 1deas of the nature of his kintrdorn had
c~anged by his supposed _
resurrection from the dead consider every thing that J1e
viously _
said, as !eferring to a different kingdom from what they had before !upposed acf'1jjii1Jtl
record 1t accordmgly. '
Many of his moral precepts are such too as would naturally be thrown out to his nl!ll•ra...-J
such a man as I ~ave supposed !•im to be ; because it would be necessary that one, who
P!>s.ed to m~k~ hrmsel_fsllch a km' as tho Jews expected, one who was to control both
crvd and r~hg1ous a~aus, should g1ve to those '"hom he was persuading to join him,
~f the soc1al rcgulataous, and the moral and religious observances, which he intended
hsh among the people.
THE NATURE AND CHARACTER OF JESUS. 17
Another reason for believing that many of the sayings, attributed to Jesus, were never utter-
ed by him, is, that the time, when they were recorded, was so long after they are represented to
have been spoken, as to forbid the belief that there is any grent accuracy in them. It is pre-
posterous, to pretend that these men should remember conversations in tile manner they assume
to have done.*
Still another reason is, that these narrntors, at the time tl1ey wrote, hnd probably become
more capable of being themselves the nuthors of whatever would seem to be above the capa·
city of a very simple man, (if indeed there be any snch i:i!entimP.nta in the New 're:-:tament), than
Jesus himself, fo1· they had then had much intercourse with manl<inc, they bnd travellt.'d Pxte n-
sively, and had s polwn anti labored much as preachers, and their talents anust have bee n improV·
eo by such an education. And of their readiness to re late the ue:-t nllll the mo~t they could
either remember or imagine of the sayings of Jesus, having the semblance of simiiari1y to any
thing that he hn<.l ever utlered, it seems to me there can reaso.r.v1iJiy ue little doubt in tile miud
of any man who reads their !Stories.
ln order to show how little reliance is to be placed upon the pre tended authorship of the sen-
timents ascribed to Jesus by the Evangelists, nothing more need be done than to exhibit the au-
thority, on which his tall< to the people on the mount has come down to us. Matthew would
have us believe that he has given us the matter of a discourse, which Jesus held to hi:s follow-
ers at this time. And yet, as I s hall attempt to satisfy tile reader, Matthew not only was not
present when the speech was ma'le. but was not even a disciple of Jesns at the time.
The 3eventh cho pter of Matthew closes t.he speech; the eighth gives; accounts of miracles,
&c., the first verse of the ninth t.l';en says, that "he entered into a ship. and passed over, and
came into his own city," (Nazareth.) It would appear from the remark here quoted, and from
the last fourteen ve rses of t he fourth chapter, that this harangue was made in Galilee, on the
other side, from Nazareth, of thB sea of Galilee. Hy the ninth verse of the ninth chapter, it
appears that )fatthew was found in Nazareth, and called to be a discip~e, after Jesus had re-
turned from Galilee. It is probable, from the fact that ~Iatthew was found in Nazareth, that he
lived there, and of course, at a distance from the place where the speech was made. This fact,
and the fact that he was not called to be a disciple until after the speech was mad e, render it
improbable that he was present at the delivery of the ~peech, or that he lwew any thing about
it until it was over. And yet, some ten, tweuty or thirty years afterward, he pretends to give
us the substance of a discourse, containing remarks upon a great variety of subjects, having no
connection with each other.
Even if he had heard them uttered, it is preposterous to suppose that h~; could have remem-
bered so great a variety of disconnected remarks. B1Jt when we cons;der I hat be probably did
not hear Utem, all confidence in the correctness of his report vanishes. So that, whether we
consider this production either as heard, or only as heard of, by Matth<nv, it comes to us in the
shape of a thing mainly fabricated or "glorified," yearB afterwards.
Bnt there i::~ another and stronger objection to the in::;tructions, which are attributed to Jesus,
than has yet been mentioned. This objection is, that the whole system of morals and religion
is based upon the selfish principle. "rhe system thro-ughout, is one of rewards and punish-
ments-the most debasing, to men's motives, of all imaginable systems. In it, right and wrong
are not recognized as fundamental principles of action, but are made referrihle to ulterior con-
siderations ofpersoual pleasure and pain. Jesu.
.; never instructed men to do what was right~ be-
cau.c;e it was right; yet this is the true reas:>n why they should do it. Nor did he inst.ruct them
to avoid what was wrong-, for the reason that it was wron!~· : yet that shrlUid be the fundo:nental
and principal reason in every mau's mind, beca11se it. is the H1ora! reason. Bot the B1bi0, by the
uniformity, with which it makes the selfish ind11cement, the pronii:se of reward, or thf' threat of
punishme-nt, follow the moral precept, impliedly admits that tht:: pran(·ipal r("a::'on wiry ,.
, e shou ld
do right, is, that we ~all be rewarded tor it~ and the princjpal reason "" hy we should not clo
wrong, is, thnt we should be punished for it. How mud!_ real honesty of principle. or how much
of purely virtuous sentiment, can be infused into men's minds by means of such mercenary in-
ducements, I leave to others to determine.
Men's moral principles are weak enough withont their being macle subordinate to seln::;hoess;
and their selfishness is quite active enough, withont any such dfort as Chri~tiallity makes to
con~titute it \he mainspring of all their conduct. There are natural ~entimcuts of j1rstice, rec-
titude and virtue, in men's minds, which, when directly appealed to as motives to action, are gen-
erally found capable of being- cultivated and strengtllew..d, and of coni rolling- rhe conduct of
any of mankind. There are few, (if indeed there are any,) men, who cannot be pl:'r snnde.j to
do what is right, by having it ur()'ed upon them that it is right; and t herfl arr h11t few men, who
cannot, in any particular case whatever, be di~suaded from a \vrong- nclion, by having it urg-ed
upon them that it is wrong. Yet a great portion of tht' ~aarre rllelr, who are t l111s .eol'ily pe~­
suaded to do what is right1
by the arg·nment that it il' right, and cli:::snaded from.d(lmg \vhat IS
wron~, by the nrgnrnent that it is wroug, wotdd consi<ler it, and justly too, a de~~1cable and d,3-
grading desct!nt, to yield to, or act under, the influence of such hopes of reward, and such fe;ns
* ~?t~ Matthew and John are supposed to have written their narratives more than thirty years after the
cructfixiOn. See Rees' Cyclopredia.
3
18 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
of punishment, as the Bible and its advocates ·attempt to awaken. And the very men, whose
trade and incessant effort it is to bring others under the control of these base aod mercenary
and false motives of action, would consider it an imputation upon their virtue and their charac-
ters, to insinuate that they themselves are governed by such means; and would take it in high
dudgeon to have it intimated that their natural sense -of right was scanty, or that. it woukl in
general be insuffic.ie~t to ~ontrol their conduct. ~ut ~hey have gr~at fears ~or the virtue of
their fellow men-1t 1s entirely. unsafe to trust mankmd In general w1tb no mot1ves but such as
truth would furnish-their fellow men are generally either snch simpletons that they must b~
wheedled by prospects a thousand times too extravagant to be probable, by promises of" sw.-
thinus" hereafter, or thev are such perfect monsters that they must be set upon and overawed
by 1;enace, or enslaved by fear; they are utte~ly incap9:bl~ o~ appreciating any consldet:a..lioa of
right or.reason ; and hence the ab~olute necessity of ChnsttaDity.
CHAPTER III.
The .!J.lleg1d .JJliracles of Jesu_s.
It it has now been reasonably shown, that up to the time when he began to work miraele&tt
Jesus had exhibited no other than a human nature ; and if neither the probable objee1;0t W.
public career, his personal character, nor his religious and moral instructions, give any mde~
of his divinity, we are to inquire as to the reality of his alleged miracles, uot only wit.huui.MJ
previous assumption or bias in their favor, but with the same suspicion and incredulity t.lld.e
should feel towards the pretended miracles of any other _person, and with a determi'nlliO» to
scrutinize them as closely as we would any others, and to detect their falsehood, !f &Df ,.__
hood can possibly be detected in them.
It bus been argued that no amount of human testimony can be rational evidence of the reality
of an alleged miracle; because such testimony must always ·be liable to this objection., :vis:
that experience has proved that it is more probable that any number of men would lie,or~
be deluded, imposetl upon, or mistaken, than tha·t a miracle would be performad. And thle;eh-
jeclion seems to be a good oue1
because wo do know that persons have, in cases almost imiu-
merable, been imposed upon by pretended miracles, but we do not know t.hat a real rniacla 1latl
ever been wrought by the agency of man, or that. any miraculous occurrence has ever 3ken
place since the order of nature was established. It probably might. also be maintained, that a
man's own senses could not be reasonable evidence of cl miracle; because men's sense• hav.etia
thousands of instances, deceived them in regard to pretended miracles; but we know ce~ly
of no instance where they ever proved the reality of a miracle. _
Nevertheless, the follo\Ving attempted explanation of the alleged miracles ofJesus will Dot
insist upon these arguments, but will proceed upon the supposition that human tettimonr4WIJ
he sufficient evidence of the reality of a miracle-assuming, however, the soundneu ~ 'fiis
principle, viz: that we are not to believe a miracle on human testimony, so long as wa o.ga-
tuaJJy discover an inconclusiveness in that testimony, or can detect a possibility of m~or
falsehood in the witnesses. The correctness of this principle I suppose Christians t.Ji~
will not have the face to dispute.
One other principle also they must admit, viz: that the objtct, for which the alleged ......
of Jesus are said to have been wrought. can weigh nothing in favor of their reality; ~'
if we say that God caused them to be wrought for the purpose of pr~ving a Revelafigj~ we
thereby assume that a Revelation exists-which is the very thing in dispute, and which lAI ...
proved by the miracles, if proved at all, and therefore is not proved at all until the "9
established. If we attempt to prove the Revelation by the miracles, and also the
the Revelation, we reason in a circle. 'fhe alleged miracles of Jesus therefore must a-
elusively upon the h.istorical evidence, which tends tb sustain them, without any re~ bj~
had to the purpo~e for which they were wrought, if they 1eaUy were wrought. And t;~
be supported by evidence as strong as would be necessary to pl'ove the reality of mira~
the working ofwhich no reason at all could be assigned.•
But to proceed wit.h the evidence. It is worthy of especial remark, and should be
borne in mind, thal at the time of Jesus, a mira.cle was considered, a.mona the J
common occurrence. Jesus acknowledges that others could perform some ;f the
miracles, which he himself did, viz: casting out devils. "If 1 by Beelzebub east ou~l~lltlM.:•
*I might here safely leave the question of Jesus's miracles, without any further arpment,
diseased; because no thinking man wouJd for a moment believe them to have been real
could see, or should fancy hecould see, that it was important that they should be wrought fbr
of proving a Revelation-yet, as has been shown, the purpose, for which they are said to
wrought~ cannot logically be taken at all into the accotmt, wlien judging of their reality.
TIIE ALL.EGED MIRACLES OF JES US, 19
whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judeos. Dut if I cast
out devils by t.he spirit of God, then the l\ingdorn of God is come unto you, (Mat. 12-27 & 28.
Lulce 11-19 & 20.) Jesus here implieclly admit~, ns I understand him, that others performed
deeds similar to some of those, which, Ly hirnselfposoihly, and by his disciples unquestionably,
wc1·e believed to be miracles, nn•l which he JWofesscd to perfor:n for the purpose of proving- his
1\le5siahship. He however would rnukc a distinction between his snpposc:<l miracle~, and those
of others, by pretending that his wore done by the help of the spirit of God, and that those of
others were wrought l)y the help of a different power. But the Pharisees had just bP.en charg-
ing him wilh working by the power of Beelzebub, and how is an impartial person to judge who
works by Beelzebub, (surposing there were a Beelzebub,) and who by the power of the Al-
mighty, when both persons perform the same miracles, and each charges the other with work-
ing by Beelzebub ? or how is an impartial person to know which are real miracles, and which
at·e false, when uoth are apparently alil<e? vVhat reason then is there for .supposiug that the
works of Jesus were any hotter miracles than the works of others?
Jesus al:)o admits (Mark 9-SS, 39 anu 40) that the man, whom his disciples toll! him they
bad found casting out uevils on his own aecount, was performing 'teal miracles. True, thi~
man u:seu the nam~ of Je:;us; but he did so without authority-so that the miracles must be
consiucred as much his own, as if he hau used his own name, or no name at aiL
Now, if, as Jesus himself aclmowledges, the miracles of others were real ones, the inference
is inevitable from these facts, that the power to cast out tlevils was no evidence that a man
was commissioned by God. But, ifthese performanees ''"ere not 'real miracles, Jesus, lil<e the
rest ofhis countryu1en, w~;ts so jgnorant as not to know it, because he expressly aclnwwledges
t.hat they were real,.
Again Jesus says (:Thfat. 24-24) that false Christs "shall shotv g1·eat signs and 'wonders, in-
$O'Ylluch~ that if it 'tvere possible, they should deceive the very elect." Now thi:s is equivalent
to aclmo·wleuging thnt fulse Cbrists could perform works so wonderful that it would be ex-
ceedingly difficult to distinguish them from such as he himself wrought. ludeed it is equiva-
lent to .ncknowleJging that an impartial ohserver would be as likely to believe those to be real,
as to believe his to be so. But he evidently b~lieved that there was some supe1·natural cause
why the "elect" would not .be deceived by them, for he says, "if it \Vere possible" they
would be. And he found it necessary, by declaring such works to Le the works of false
Christs, and by cautioning his disciples in the strongest manner against them, to prevent them
from regarding, or giving any credit to, those works, which, to unbiassed minds, would appear
equally miraculous with his own, and would fur~i:sh equally strong evidence as his, that each
of the .authors of them was the real l\1essiah instead of himself.
If the works of Jesus were so much more wonderful than man could perform as to deserve
to be ca1le(l miracles, was it not nonsense to caution his disciples .so strongly against being de-
luded hy the works of others ?* ·
"Vhat the works of these pretended Messiahs (of whom it is admitted by Christians that
there were about seventy, who lived about the time of Jesus), were, I know not-but it is re-
lated, on such authority as Christians admit to be true, that some of them got large sects after
them. The Rev~ John Newton, in hjs Dissertations on the Prophecies, (Chap. 19) says that
.one of them obtained thirty thousand followers. This number is probably many times larget
than that of those, who believed in Jesus, du,ring his life time. 'l'he largest estimate, which I
·have found of hi:-; fo11owers at any one time, is, "about five thousand men, besides women
and children," (Mat. 14-21), and this estimate is uncloubtedly a great exaggeration. Be-
sides, it would appear that of those, who sometimes followed him about in the early pan of
his career, nearly all soo1.1 abandoned him. If then~ tho.se, whom Jesus calls false Christs,
were so much more successful than hhnself in gaining adherents, it is in th.e highest degree
probable that thei1· works gave evidence, to those who saw them, of greater miraculous power
dtan his did. So that if we believe there ever was such a being as a real Messiah, we ought,
jud~ing fwm the testimony of the eyewitnesses, (whose testimony alone is good for any thing),
on every principle of reason, as far as the evidence of miracles is concerned, to believe that
Jesus was not the actual one-but that the one, who obtained, du·~·ing his life tirne, the greatest
number of followers, was the true one; because these followers, were the eyewitnesses whose
*Such facts as the above would furnish a complete answer to all the arguments-founded on the im-
portance of the alleged purpose of establishing in men's minds a belief in a revelation- (supposing such
arguments to be admissible), that Christians have ever urged in favor of the probability and propriety of
miracles; because the very testimony (the Bible), relied on to prove that miracles were employed for that
purpose, declares also, explicitly and unequivocallr, that, at the same time, and among the same people,
other miracles, equally real, and equa1ly wonderfu as far as men's senses could disco,·er, were performed,
which are not pretended to have any connexion with a revelation, or any other important design. Jn
prder, therefore, to support the Bible history of these events, there is just as strong a necessity for arguing
in ~upport of the probability and propriety of God's giving miraculous power to some individuals for no
discoverable purpose nt all, as in fin.·or of his giving it to others to enable them to convince men of the
truth of a revelation, because, according to the Bible, he gave it in the former case as certainly as in the
latter. ·
•
If the Bible be true, it is as certain also that God gave miraculous power to a pool ofwater, as it is that
he gave it to Jesus or any of his disciples, (John 5-4.)
•
~0 THE DE.JST'I REPLY.
testimony constitutes the evidence in either case, and by following a man they expressed their
belief in the reality of his pretended miracles. Ofcourse the witnesses must have been more
numerous, who could testit)• to the reality of the miracle:; ofothers, than of those of .Jesus;
and we ought certainly to belie,·e the testimony of a large number rather than the testimoPy
of a few.
The number of those, who were not eyewitnesses, but who might believe on a partieulv.
one of these pretended 1\lessiahs aft~r his death, and z;imply upon the testimony of otbe:ia,
no evidence at all tbat one was the real one; because the..e ntight be many circumsta
which had nothing to do with the reality of the miracles, that would ue,·ertbele.;s make
pretended miracles of one believed after his death, when those of another would be
For example, if the followers of one should ~preacl the accounts of his doings, after
such an one woulcl continue to be believed after his death, when anothert whose
should neglect this step, would natua·ally be forgotten, although his works might be
times the more wouclet·ful of the two, This was the catJe with .Tesus. He had few f'nllrrillii
in his life time, compaa·ecl with those of others; but some of his followers circulated tue~:.._
of his doing~, after his death, and by that"meaus his memory was preser,•ed.
It nppears to me that even what little has now been said, would be sufficient to g .....~~;r
that Je~us never performed any real miracleR, if they would bntjudge of the Vf4Jblabilill•
this subject, as they do on any other subjects of history. But it is not with t Bible as
with other hooks, in respect of heing belie,·ed. 'fhere are few men, and probably no wo\m1~
who believe it because it is probable, (for they do not know, nor dare they inquire, Wllilla~et
or not it be probable), or for any other reason that has any thing like evidence or
it. 'fhey believe it, almost universally, for one, or the other, or botb, of th8$e
reason~, viz: either simply because it i1 the Bible, or because they expect tb
damned if they WP.re to di$belie\·e it, howe,·er improbable it may be-thus vi
their 1\fnker with being wicked enough to torture men through eternity, for not
eel, in thi:~ world, what was improbable. That " he that believeth not shall be
pears to be the strongest of.all arguments, in the minds of the many, in support or
It is thus that Christianity, by seizing upon men's fears, and thus making dupes and
their underRtandings, has presen·ed its credit in their minds, and its power o,•er theil' ~-~"
bas brought down with it, to this clay, some of that credulity for the marvellous, in wii!A
was first established, and has thus prevented men from inquirina, in a rational mil88~i
otherwise the enlightened portion of the world probnbly would have done, as to w~....a~~o._
probable, and what improbable, in relation to the designs and go,•ernment of God.
Since then a further examination of the subject of mirncles is necessary, I will go •
examination of the sepaa·ate e\•idence of each ancl every miracle, that Jesus is said·to.----
perrormed, and of which thea·e is any particular account in either of the four narrative~
acts and preaching. The number of these is thirty-three, ancl no more. Some of ~-[41•
mentioned hy one of the narrators, some by two, some by three, and a single one of
the four. There are many other general and indefinite accounts of his miracle~, such-~-.
in particular places, be "cured all manner of disea$es," or that "he healed all, ......a ..,,.
vexecl with unclean spirits," or "those who were tormented with plagues," &c.
many of these thirty-three were recorded by 1\fatthew thirty years afterwards*'-aod
of the same were recorded many years afterward by 1\fark, "ho was a follower DC--~
probably knew nothing of Jesus per~onally,t ancl by Luke also, who was a citizen
converted by Paul, and who ofcour:;e never had any personal knowledge of J81lU~,f
be no doubt that these were considered the most remarkable that be was ever aannullil
perform; otherwise they would not have been remembered und circulated so a.'i to b8
remarkable ones that should come to the knowledge of each of these three different
Many of these supposed miracles will be attempted to he accounted for, by sbt[)WJDit:H
ha,·e been the work of the imagination. Such ones will be examined first, and the Odi11ir-.-t(ll.
terward.
The influence of the imagination upon sick persons is known to be very great, and
cases of modern date, it has been observed and recorded by physicians to have beea
ing. There are perhaps few adults, who have ever attended a sick person, that bav-e
served the sensible and sudden eff~ct of a newly excited hope upon hirn. All know the 'Di1111~
tance of sustaining the hopes ofa sick man. The reason of this, is, that his nervous
is then, vastly more than in health, susceptible to the influence of particular states
mind. It is one of the most common oh~ervations, in relation to a pe~on
that "if his: courage be maintained, and he think he shall recover, he uill .....~,......
think he shaJI die, be certainly will die.., The frequent expression of such opiim~•
thut we are all aware of the inftuence of the imagination upon the sick, al~u'IJ'u"'"
pby of its operation is perhar•s Dot knowo to all who know the fact.
There is perhaps no mao, even at the present day, wbo, when sick, although he
well understood every thing about the polver of the imagination, is not nevertlieless
*See Lempriere's Biogtaphical Dictionary.
t See Newton on the Prophecies Chap. 18.
t See Lempriere'• Biographical Dictiouary, also Newton on the Prophecies, Chap. 18.
THE ALLEGED MIRACLES OF JESUS. 21
great degree under its influence. Physicians unuerstand this vrinciple in physiology, and
many of them avail themselves of it, hy holding out encouragement whenever they can do it
without ruuuing too great a risk of occasioning an injurious eflect by a disappointment of the
expectations thus raised. It require::; very little of tho exciterueut of !tope to ::;tring the nerves
of a sick man, he~ause they are exceedingly susceptible. Thus 111any physicians will often
give to a sick man tuedicines, which nrc sitnple a nd powedel's of thetn1'clves, merely for the
sake of the beneficial inliuence, to he derived from his imagining that he has taken so111ething
which i:; beuefitting ltim.
We all know) too, bow little excitement of the feelings, upon a man, who is sick, and ap-
parently de~titute of all strength, \V
ill occasion insanity, and cause him to exbiuit wonderful
power. Now he really has no lllore strength in his mu.scles, duri ng his insanity, than he had
before; but his nervous systetn has been excited by the operations of hi!' mind, and his latent
strength thus called out. It is by the operation of the same principle, thnt other excitements
of the feelings, ns a newly imspired expectation of recovery for example, often calls out the
latent strength of a sick man to a. considea·ahle degree, without mnkiug him iusnne, unless a
man may be always properly called insane in just so f:'lr as his imagiuation deceives him.
Further evideuce of the power of the imagination to operate upon the sick, and to cure <lis-
eases, i.s fumished by the following extracts, taken from Rees's Cyclopre<.lia-article, Imagina-
tion.
" In the year 1798, an American, of the name of Perkins, int1·oduced into this country
" (Englan<.l) a method of curing diseases, for which he obtaiuecl the royallettel's patent, by
" means of two small pieces of metal denominate<.) T1·acto1·s. These were applied external-
" ·]y near the part diseased, and moved about, gently touching the surface only; anrl thus mul-
" titudes of painful disorders were removed, some most speedily, and some after repeated ap-
" plieations of the metallic points. Pamphlets were published, announcing the wonderful
"cures accomplished by this simple remedy; an<.l periodical journals and newspapers teemed
"with e~idence of the curative powers of the l'ractors; insomuch that in a few months they
cc were the subject of general conversation, an<.l scar·cely less general use. The religious sect
"of the Quakers, whose benevolence has heen sometimes displayed at the expen~e of their
"sagacity, became the avowed af!d active friends of the t1·acto1·s; and a public er.;tablishment,
"called the "PerJcinean Institution," was formed under their auspices, for the purpose ~f
"curing the di~eases of the poor, without the expense of drugs or medical advice. The trans-
" actions of this institution were published in pamphlets, in support of the extraordinary effi-
" cacy of these nP.w instruments. In somewhat less than six years Perldns left the country,
"in possession, as we have been informed on good a uthority, of upwards of ten thousand
"pounds, the contr'u)Utions of British credulity; and now (1811) the tractors are almost for-
" gotten.
"We by no means 1ntend to impeach the veracity, of those, who attested the many extra-
" ordinary cures perfo,·med by the application of the tractors; on the cm1tra1·y, we have no
"doubt that many of them were actually accomplished, a t least temporarily: after what we
"have alt-eady stated, w\~en treating of animal magnetism (such as the sudrlen cure of the ar-
" tist's head-ache, on the bddge, by M. Sigault's gestures), and what we shall proceed to state
"respecting the effects of counte'Jfeit tractors, it were impos~ible not to admit the truth and
"correctness of the majority of the accounts of the efficacy of Perkinisrn. \Ve must observe,
"however, that the efficacy w~s founded on the delusion; and had not the scientific world been
"at that time in a state of cor.nparative ignorance respecting the principle of which Galvani
"had recently obtained a glance; had they been in total ignorance of that principle, or pos-
" sessed of more than that "littl~ knowledge" of it, ·which "is a <.langet·ous thing," such an
"imposture woul<l scat·cely hav'~ gained ground for a day, among those who were acquainted
"with the proceedings of the F1~nch Commissioners in the affair of Mesmer.* But Perldns
"associated the idea of the Galvani~ prit'lciple, Ol' animal electricity, with the operation of
" his tractors, by constructing them of two different metals, which the Italian philosopher had
"shown to be neces~ary to excite the oyeration of the agent, which he had discovered: and
"the obscurity, which hung over this subject, left a new field for hypothesis, and the anoma-
" lous character of the facts contributed to induce even philosophers to listen to the rela-
" tion.
"But Dr. Haygarth, to whom his profession and his country are deE>ply indeLted for more
"important services, suspected the true soun~e of the phenomena produced by the tractors,
''from the first promulgation of the suhject. Recollecting the developement of the animal
"magnetism, he su~gested to Dr. Falconer, about the end of the year 179S, when the tractors
'' had already outained a high reputation at Bath, even among persons of rank ancl under-
" stn_nuing, that the nature of th.e operation of the tractors might be correctly ascertained by a
" paJr of false t?·acto?·s, resembhng the reul ones: and it was resolved to put the mutter to the
"test of experiment in the general hospital of that city. They therefore contrived two 'wood-
" en t1·acto1·s, of nearly the same shape as the metallic, and painted to resemble them in col-
" or. Five cases were chosen of chronic rheumatism, in the ancle, knee, wrist and hip: one
" of the patients had also gouty pains. A.11 the affected joints, except the last, were swelled,
"and all of them had been ill for several months.
*The pretended discoverer ofanimal magnetism.
THE DF..IST'S REPLY.
"On the 7th, of January, 1799,.the "!looden trl!-ctors were employed. All the :five patients,
cc except one, assu.red us that theu pam ~vas reheved; and three much benefitted by the :first
"application of thas remedy•.One .felt bas knee warm~r, and ~e could walk m.ucb better, as
" be showed ns with great sattsfacuon. One. wa~ easier fo.r moe hours, and nil be went to
"bed when the pain returned. One bad a tmghng sensation for two hours. The woo,Jen
"tradtors were drawn over the skin so as to touch it in the slightest manner. Su~h is the
" wonderful force of the imagination.
"Next day, January 8th, the true metallic tracto.rs of Perk!ns were employed exactly in
,, like manner and with similar effects. AJI the pauents were m some measure, but not more
cr relieved by'the second application, exce{>t one, who receiyed no ben~fit from .th.e former
"operation, and who was not a proper subJect for the ex~enment, havmg ~o extstang pain,
cr but only stiffness in her ancle. They felt, (as they fancted) warmth, but m no greater de-
"dearee than on the former day." Of the imagination as a cause, and as a cure ofthe dl80r-
"cJe~s of the body, exem:elified by fictitious tractors and epidemical convulsions. By Jobo
"Hay"arth, lvl. D. F. R. S. &c. Bath, 1800.
"Su~h were the experiments attempted with the view of ascertaining the nature of Pt.f'Wn-
"ism. But Dr. Haygartb's pamphlet contained an account of still more decisive trials nwde
cr in the Bristol infirmary, by Ma·. Smith, one of the surgeons to that establishment. This
"gentleman first operated with two leaden tractors, on Tuesday, April 19th, on a patient,
"who had been some time in the Infirmary, "with a rheumatic affection of the slioulder,
"which rendered his arm perfectly useless." In the course of six minutes no other etfectfol-
" lowed the application of these pieces of lead than a warmth upon the skin: nevertheless
" the patient informed Mr. Smith, on the following day, that " he had received so much bene-
"fit, that it had enabled him to lift his hand from his knee, which he had in vain several times
"attempted on the Monday e\•ening, as the whole ward witnessed." But although it was
"thus proved that the patent tractors possessed no specific powers independent of !Umple
" metals, he thought it advisable to lay aside metallic points, lest the proofs might be deemed
"less complete. Two pieces of wood, properly shaped and painted, were next made use of;
cc-·and in order to add solemnity to the farce, Mr. Barton held in his hand a stop \•atcb, whilst
" Mr. Lax minuted the effects produced. In four minutes the man raised h1s band several
"inches, and he had lost also the pain in his shoulder, usually experienced w~en attempting
" to lift any thing. He continued to undergo the operation daily, and with progressive good
"effect, for on the 25th, he could touch the mantle-piece.
"On the 27th," Mr. Smith continues, "in !he presence of Dr. Lovell anil\Ir. J. P. Noble,
"two common iron nails, disguised with sealing wax, were substituted f()" the pieces of ma-
ce hogany before used. In three minutes the same_patient "felt sometbilg moving from his
" arm to his hand, and soon after he touched the Board of Rules, whirll bung a foot above
" the fire place. This patient at length so far recovered, that he coull carry coaJs1 &.c. and
" use his arm sufficiently to assist the nurse: yet pa·evious to the use o! the spurious tractors,
" " he could no more lift his hand ft·om his knee than if a hundred "eight were u_pon It, or a
"nail driven through it," as he declared in the presenr.e of severalgentlemeo. The fame of
"this case brought applications iu abundance, indeed it must be C}nfessed, that it was more
"than sufficient to act upon weak minds, and induce a belief thet these pieces of woOd a4
"iron were endowed with peculiar virtues." See Dr. Haygartb's Pamphlet, p. 8.
"!.Iany other equally striking instances of the curative oper,tion of the imagination, when
"excited by the shttm tractors, might be quoted from the pam}'hlet in question. • • • • •
cc After having perused this abundant evidence of the po,,ers of the imagination, not otllf
cc in producing various affections of the body' but in removi~ others which exist, we eaaIJ.i"e
"no difficulty in crediting many relations of cures performe« by persons supposed tobe ~ed
" with extraordin~u·y powers, or employing other pretend~ agents, all of which may be ..-.-er-
" red to the same common principle. One of die most singular instances of this kind, bOth
" from the number of cures performed, and the ranb:, learning and charactet· of the persenJ.,
" who attested them, is to be found in the person of Valentine Greatraks, who tlourish~'b
"the latter part of the 17th century.
"The _proceedings of this pious and appare~tly,.&incere man are very intea·esting, aslflbrtl..
"ing a hastory of the power of imagination and ~nfidence over certain disorders ofthe lkJdy.
"He was the son of an Irish gentleman of good education nod property, who died hi hl.
" childhood. Disgusted with the religious and political contentions of his country in the t.tat
" of Cromwell, he re.tired from the world_, an?arently In a state of melancholy derangerltl8t
"and bad health, whach hatl nearly termma,ted fatally. On recovering, he became w...-.
"the puritans of the day, !lnd 0;fter.hav_ingact~d somet.ime as a magistrate, he had cc....,._
" pulse of strange.persuasiOn" m bas mmd, which contmued to presentitself. whetJier1ii' ires
"Jn public or in private, sleeping or waking, " that God had given him the bleD!•
"of curing the king's evil." Accordingly he commenced the practice of touching for t1a1a
;: dtsease about.the l:ear 1662, which be.continued. for th~e years; at this time the agu
" came ver>: epadem~cal, and _the same Impulse.wtthln hun suggested "that there \Vas li1eiiD11~­
" e~ upon ham the gaft.of cunng the ague," wh1ch .he also practised with success, by I
has ha.nds on the pattents. At length he found his power extended to epilepsy and1a11•
" disorders, &.c.; but he candidJy acknowledges that many were not cured by his toacla.
THE ALLEGED ?lflRAC LES OF JESUS. 23
" Nevertheless the unbounded conndence iu his powers, nnd consef!uently the facility with
"which the imaginations of the ignornnt would he acted upon, utust he umnifest from the fol-
" lowinrr statemeut, which he sent to 1\ft- Boyle. " Groat multitudes Crout divers place~ J·c-
" sorted'to me, so that I could have no time to follow my own ocea:oiions, uor enjoy the compuny
"of my fnutily ancl friends; whereupon I set three days in tho week apart (frotu six iu the
"moruin~r till six at uight,) to lay my huud;; on all that ca111c, and so continued for some
"monthseat home. But the ulUltitudcs which came daily were so great, that the neighboring
"towns were not able to accommodate them; whereon, for the goot.l of other:-;, I left rny
"home, and went to Youghnll, where great ruultitudcs resorted to me, not only uf the in-
" habitants, hut also out of Eugland; so that the magistrates of the town told IIIC, that tltcy
"were afruid that some of the sick people that came out of England might bring the infcc-
" tion into tho place: wbct·eon I retired again to my bouse at AtTune, whore (as at Youg-
" hall,) I observed three days, by laying my hands on all that carne, whatsoever the diseuses
"were (and many were cured, and many were not;) so that my stable, barn and malt house
"were lilled with sick people of all <.liseases almost, &c."
" "\'Ve shall not extend this article by quoting the histories of cases certified by several phy-
" sicians, as well as by divines and philosophers; among whom were the names of Robert
" Boyle, Dr Cudworth, Dr. "\'Vhichcot, &c. \Ve may remark, that some of the cases of
"headache and rheumatism resemble most accurately those whkh were cured by the spuri-
" ous tractors abovementioned; and that the hand of Greatraks can only Le conceived to have
"operatetl in the same way. The influence of the imagination was likewise obvious in sev-
" eral convulsive affections, in the same manner as in the woman at Passy, who fell into the
"c1·isis before the magnetism was applied. Greutraks mentions several poor people that
" went from England to him, "and amongst the rest, two that had the falling sickness, who
"no soone,. sm.o me, than they fell into their fits immediately;" and he restored them, he af-
" firms, by putting his hands upon them. Nay, he tells us, that even the touch of• his glove
"had driven many kinds of pains away, and removed strange fits in women; and that the
"stroking of his hand or his glove had, in his opinion, and that of other persons present,
"driven several devils, or evil spirits, out of a ·woman, one after the other, "every one hav-
" ing been lil\e to choke her (when it came up to her throat,)before it went forth." Now this
" whole description contains a pretty accurate picture of an ordinary hysterical fit, with its
"attendant globus, terminating with the discharge of flatus·.
"About the same period, a Capauchin friar, whose name was Francisco Bagnon, was fa-
" mous in Italy for the same gift of healing, by the touch of the hands only; and was attended
"wherever he wont by great multitudes of sick people, upon whom he operated numerous
" aud surprising cures, which were deemed true miracles. So general was the belief in
"his curative powers, that even a prince of Parma, who had labored under a febrile disease
"for the space of six months, was induced to apply to him, and was immediately cured by his
"voice only. The prince himself, and many others that were present, afterwards bore pub-
" lie testimony to the fact." * • * * * ~ *' *
"But it is unnecessary to enumerate the individuals, the De Mainaducs, the Prescotts, &c.
" who have at various times been distinguished by the possession of various occult methods
"of healing the sick. The practice has occasionally prevailed in_almost all ages; and we
"have seen, in the details of experiments above related, that the faculty of the imagination,
"in certain habits and conditions of the body, and es}Jecially in the irritable female constitu-
" tion, is actnaUy capable of producing all those effects on the corporeal fi·ame, which have
"been deemed. the result of occult agency and extraordinary }Jowers."
"Admitting this, then, as an established principle of the human constitution, arid maldng·
"due allowances for the exaggerations and misrepresentations of ignorance and supersti.tion,
"we are enabled to give a rational explanation of many historical relations, which have been
"considered as altogether fabulous, or as direct violations of truth. We are well aware of
"the facility with which the imagination is excited in an uninformed person, and more par-
" ticularly in an ag-e of profound ignorance, which is, for that reason, commonly an age of
"superstition. We lmow, too, that in the middle ages, when every form of science was al-
"-most unlmown, and the Jaws of nature had not been investigated, the smallest discovery in
"natural philosophy, chemistry, or astronomy, was deemed the result of supernatural com-
" munication with the world of spirits; and the discoverer or possessor of the knowledge was
"looked upon as a being gifted with supernatural powers. In such a state of the human
"mind, when natural philosophy, meagre as it was, was-disguised ·with the name, and clothed
"with all the supposed agencies of magic; and when every person, with a Jittle more lHlowl-
" edge than his neighbors, was master of so many magnets, so many t?·actors, by which he
"could rule the imaginations of the multitude; it cannot be the subject of our wonder, that
"the magician's rod (or the philosopher's cane) should produce such mighty operations, or
"that a scrap of his writing should be a remedy for many maladies. These only executed
"what was afterwards performe1l by M. Deslon's extended .fingers, and Valentine Greatrak's
"glove! The effects, then, of the incantations, amulets, and all the arts of magic, witch-
" craft and astrology, l>y which the more artful pretenders to superior knowledge imposed
"upon the people, may be allowed to have actually occurred, and to have been the resul of
24 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
"natural causes; and they are plainly referrible to one common source, with those of animal
"magnetism, Perkinism, and various other.modifications of .the ima~ination in fetters. •
"It is scarcely necessary to add, that durmg the same periods of Ignorance and supersta-
cc tion, those extremely pious and comparatively learned persons, who have been enroUecl ia
"the catalogue of saints, must necessarily have obtained the most complete veneration 84
"confidence from the multitude; and hence, after their death, every relic of their hodi«; t¥
"clothing, the shrines in which they were entombed, fragments of the instruments of ~iir
"execution (in cases of martyrdom:) and every other object that could excite, by associa~
"those reverential feelings, usually called up by a contemplation of their characters, woul4
"become so many agents upon the ~magiu~ttons, by which all the extraordinary ehan1esin
"the animal economy above described, might be effectually produced. Thus we eat~not
"doubt that there is much foundation for the.histories of recovery from various dise~­
" casioned by removing the sick to the tombs of celebrated worthies, or placing them
"the statues and i111ages of these persons, or by touching them with nails taken from e
"coffins, or rings from the fingers, or the bones of the fingers themselves of these sahtll, or
"by the influence of an infinity of relics of this sort, which cannot be supposed to ~
"less power over a superstitious mind, than the painted tractors of a surgeon, or the pe.eof
"an enthusia:;t." ·
In the New Edinburgh Encyclopredia, (Am. Ed.) in the article on Animal Magnetism,-
find the following, among other testimony to the ]>ower of the imagination in curing d~es.
The pamphlet of Dr. Haygarth, on the meta11ic tractors, "amply confirms the ~netaf.Jifh\­
" ciple, that the power of the imagination in the cure of diseases is almost without limits:; so
"that, except a complP.te and sudden alteration of physical structure, or the restore;~ of
"lost parts, there is scarcely any change so considerable, which may not he efFected ttl~
"its intervention. It not only possesses an indefinite power over what are styled nwvoes
"diseases, where the primary affection consists, as far as we can judge, in some cba.ap in
"the action of the b•·ain and its appendages; but even diseases of the sanguiferous stsie!n,
"and of the different organic functions, appear to be by no means exempted fronl ia in-
" fluence."
.. ~ . .. - .
"In proof of his hypothesis, and of the power of maanetism over the human 'hbtty, lltllt.-
"mer" (the pretended discoverer of animal magnetism,) "and hi• adherents con~,.,..
"pealed to their success in the cure of diseases; and so great did this appear, and so be&-
"tionable was the evit.lence, on which it seemed to he founded, that, for some time.,,.._..
"ly any opposition was made to it, and it was regarded as the most unreasonable ecepleta81
"to doubt of its reality."
And yet after this method of curing diseases bad bad this astonishing success, aDd hMI ob-
tained thi8 astonishing reputation, it was completely ascertaine£1, by experiments made ~
persons blindfolded, ancl upon those who doubted the system, (whose imaginations of~
would not be so easily affected), that the previous cures had all been but the work or ftte
imagination. These experiments were conducted by nine Commissioners, men of '-c:.:l
and science, appointed by the French King in 1794 to investi~ate the matter. Of thi&
of Commissioners, Dr Franklin, then American Minister at Paris, was one•
.1\Iany othe.- cases, of wonderful cures wrought by the imagination, are cited io the ....
in Rees' Cyclopredia, from which a part of the foregoing extracts are taken. Bllf ~
have been quoted to establish, heyontl cavil, I trust, that the imagination iscapableof~
a su•lden and very exciting power ovei· the nervous system, and of thus proclucing, ttlliat1 tij
the ignorant and superstitious, would be consit.lered miraculotu effects in the resto~ ·e."f
the siclt.
Now there probably have seldom, if ever, been causes in existence calculated to oplf.We
so strongly upon the imagination of a sick man, \Vithout making him actually insane, d Welte
those which must have operated upon such as, for the time, thought themseh•es cured~
sus; and perhaps the worlcl never furnished a people more easily to be operated UJ!.Oil
method ancl pretensions of Jesus, than were those among whom he preached. Th
simple and superstitious to a degree hardly to be conceived of by us, as is proved by
of their running aU agog after so many of those pretended miracle-workers, that •
Judea at that time.
The nation of the Jews at large, believed themselves the peculiar favorites of
believed that God often sent messengers to them, and in order to prove such to be bia
gers, gave them miraculous powers. About the time of Jesus they expected a
one to be called the Messiah. They supposed he would posses~ these powers in an
degree. Those, who followed Jesus, and supposed themselves benefitted by him,
him to be this Messiah. It was evidently necessary, in order to be benefitted by his
that they should believe, in advance, that he possessed it, as appears from Matthew
"and be dill not many mighty works there because oftheir unbelief." At another ti
9-29 and 29,) when two blind men wished to be cured, he asked them, "Believe ye
able to do this? They said "rea, Lord." Then says he, "according to your faith, be
you.'' The same inference IS fairly deducible from numerous other passages anti
stances.
THE ALLEGED MIRACLES OF J.ESU!, 25
Keeping these facts in our minds, let us look at the cu•·e of the palsy, ns describecl by
1\fatthew, (9-2 to 8,) .Mal'lt (2-1 to 12,) and Lulte (5-17 to 26)-by Lulte the most nli-
nutely.
Imagine Jesus surrounded by a multitude, who came to him from every (}Harter, who be-
lieved him to be the J\1essinh, and to have miraculous power; irnngine him to ha\'e heen goiug
from place to place, preaching a:-; if by the authority of God-the report goiug bef'C,re him
that he cu1·ed all manuer of disease:s wherever he went; imagine !;0 great a cro,,d about him
..that the man sick of the pal~y could not be carried in at the door of the house, and that it
was necessary to uncove•· the roof to let him down where Je~us wns; ilrwgine this pabied
man having full faith, fi'Dm the moment he hearcl of Jesus, in his ability to cure hiua; inwgine
him can·ied on a bed by four, to the plnce where Jesus was, full of the highest expectatious;
imagine him waiting, anu witnessing the crowd around full of the same extrayagaJtt expt:cta-
tions with himself, witnessiug also the preparations being made to let hiua down throug·h the
roof of the house, to ba·ing him iuto the pre:-;ence of the wonuerful beiug who ""a:'l to re-
store him at a word-(<luring such a scene, if he had a ~park of nenous vitality in him, it
must have been Ret n10st powel'fully.at wnrl\;) iu1agiue him at length, laid in the presence of
this mes5enger fa·om God, this Mes~inh; imagiue Jesus pardoning his si"J1s with the assumed
authority of God; iu1agine him telling the bystande•·s, in the hem·ing of the sick man, that he
could cause him to rise up and wall< as ea::~ily as forgive his !!'ins; (<:ertainly, nt this time, the
man's nervous system muRt have heen wrought to an extraordinary degree of <-xcitemeut, if
he bad life in him)-then heat· Jesus pronounce, in his oraculflt' and confident wanuer, "That
ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on eaa·th to fi.wgive Rins, I suy unto thee, arise;
and take up thy ~ouch, and go thy way into thy house;" and is there any thing ~t1·an~e in the
f.act that be should receive strength, :should ri::'e up and walk? or that he should take with
him his bed (such a sack of straw a:s it probably wag, judging fi·om the circumstance of its
being let down through the roof of the hou~e)? To my mind the•·e is nothiug in all this,
whif~h cannot he aceounted for on the well known principle:. of phy~inlogy, even suppo:oing
·the re::;tomtion tn have heen a permanent one. Ht>re are plain aud obviou~ cau::oes, Ruffieient
to produce the effect, without any supernatuml ngtmcy whntever. *
If these views are correct, here was no mirnele at nll, eveu supposing the man really to
have had the pnlsy. But suppose (a thing to my nlind exceedingly ru·ohahle) that 1his IIIRO
only imagined himself to have the palsy-o•· that he had some ~light infirmity, whi<·h he, krww-
in~ nothing of di.~eases, a~ the ignorant and.si111ple people of that age and nation prohahly
did, brought himself to believe to he the palsy;- and \\'hat sol't of a ntiracle do we have here
to pt·ove that Je:;us possessed :;;upernatural powers? I ~ay it is p1
·ohable that the di~ea:-e was
not a t·enl palsy, because ignorant, superstitious and timid men, such as were those among
whom Jesu5 pt·eached, generally ruagni(y a slight infi••tnity into a grievous clisease, particu·
larly if there i::; any JJe•·son going about the country pretending to eUJ·e rli~eases in n wonder-
ful manner. Persons, who live within the circuit of such a man's travels, ~enerally have·
d·iseases more mali~nant, and more in number, than the rest of the human family.
Besides, Luke, after relating the fact of Jesus's being where be was, of there bein!! a great
assemblage, &c., says, that a man wns b•·ought, who "was taken with a pal:->y." This lan-
guage naturally conveys the idea that the rrmn was taken just at that tirne, and if ~o, there
are a thousand chances ngninst one that these :-;imple men, who wouh.l mal<e son•ethiug mar-
vellous out of every circumstance that could, by the aid of an enormous gullibility, be made
so; who probably knew no more about. diseases than they did about astronowy, and who
woukl he imposed on by anv. numbness of a liruh, ot· crarnr• of a muscle, were mistaken about
the chamc.te1· of the attaclt·, ratheJ· than that it should be the real IHdsy; because that is an
illness, that very 1·arely occm·s. The patient himself too, would be as likely to be mistal<en
as the bystanders, and if he thought he had the pal;o;y, (and if such a sugge~tion had been
made, he would be very likely to think so,) and that Jesus woul<l take the trouhle to display
his rnil·nculous powel' upon him, he would most surely keep up the appearance of a palsied
mnn as well as he coultl.
Fu•·the•·, if the bnre conversation, of those aronnJ, about Jesus pe1f01·ming strange cm·es,
should make a simple man imagine he harl some disease whjch needed cut·iug, wheu he had
no real illness or difficulty at all, it would be no very remar1~able instance of the power of the
imagination. ·
Reader, dedde upon this testimony hefore yon go farther. Is thet·e, or is there not, here,
unequi voeal evidence that a ~enuine minwle wns performed? Decide upon this ca!"e Ff'J'Ul'•
atel.v, and independently of nll othet·:;. Each alleged miracle must 5tanrl solely upon h:' own
evidence; for even if Jesus performed any real mimeles, there is no doubt the country would
be full of stories about mi•·acles wbich were not real, and therefore we are not to belieYe
there \'\'as a real mirade in any particular case, if there he a discoverable inconc)u~ivene~s in
the evidence relating exclusively to that case. I will answer for the readel', that there is not
room for even a decent pretence that here was a miracle.
*In furth~r support of the reasonableness of this explanation, I quote the 11uthority of Dr. Combe, who
says, in his work on Physiology, that "so powerful, indeed, is the nervous stimulus, that examples h~ve
occurred of strong mental emotions having instantaneously given life and vig9r to paralytic limbe.'' This
extract may be found in No. 71, Harpers' Family Library, page 112..
4
26
THE DEIST'S REPLY.
Th nd supposed miracle of Jesus, that will be examined, is related by Matthew, (S-
14 ~ ~~) l\lark (1-SO and Sl ) and Luke (4-SS and 89.) It is the cure of Peter's WJfe'a
8
1
11
< "'·l'l•e stories here lenve'quite too wide a latitude for doubt as to the reality and sever•
mot wr. ' · · b bl d'd k fi ti tb
itv of the db•ease; for these stmple bemgs pro a y 1 not now a ever rom any o er
tri\'ial complaint. Luke indeed sa)'S it was "a great fever." But Luke was ~ot there, and
)0.-sihly before the story reached hts e~rs, several years afterwards, the truth mrght h~ve been
~ little exaggerated. This too is precisely such language as one would u~e, who WJshed to
matte it appear that a miracle was actual.ly ~rought, wbe~,the sup,~osed.m~racle was. of saoll
a sort, that, unless there were some quahfymg word, as great, m th1s Jnstance, JDS4!rted,
those, who should read the account, would see at once that there was doubtless no mJracle
nt B~~, independently of the word "grea!,'' Luke's w~ole account goes to sh~W: t~at thisfever
was all imaginary and brouaht on (as d1seases sometimes are now) by the VJcmuy of a.-,..
sician who was thought abl~ to cure any thing. He says that Jesus "entered jnto Simlil~s
house'" and immediately he adds, "that Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great r......
u
It wo~ld appear from this account that she was taken after Jesus had entered the house. If 'lfie
wel·e thus suddenJy taken and thus suddenly cured, both the sickness and the cure were --
doubtcdlv the work oftbe imagination.
But suj>posing the affair not to have been quite so farcical as it probably was, and suppe8-
ina that when Jesus eutered the house, she thought herself somewhat ill, and lay on die &.1,
arid that when he "stood over her and rebuked the fever," Jlretcnding to have miraeo1ous
power she felt able to rise and do what she is said to have done, still here is no evidence fit to
be tho~ght of to pr<?v~ a ~iracle. }i'rom t~e greatness of. the nu!ll~er of sic~, whE?m lelus¥
said to have cured, tt Js evident that the d1seases were e1ther tnv1al or enurely JUJ. . . . .j
and this was undoubtedly a case of the common kind, and one that could ha,·e been cur..,..
well by the sight of Paul's handkerchief, or by the shadow of Peter, as those that were tJJ.
cured. (Acts 19-12-and 5-15 and 16.)
The third case to be examined is that of the woman, \vho had "an issue of blood,• (me-
nonhaooia undoubtedly.) It is related by Matthew (9-20 to 22,) :Mark (5--25 to 84,) and
Lulce (S-49 to 4S.) This case affords an excellent illustrntion of the manner in whiebctmra-
cles were wrought upon the sick. This woman not only believed that Jesus had miraeuiOOI
power to cure diseases, but she e,·en beHe,·ed that a miracle would be wrought upon he).uri·
ply by her touching his garment, without his knowledge, end, of course, without kit 'PCJitir.er
heing exerted. And so the event proved, if Mark and Luke nre to be believed. It we ct.
simple touching of his garment, as they say, that healed her. .Mark says that "straidlt•,.,
after touching, "she felt in her body that she was made whole of that plague," and also, tilt
nfter Je!'lus had made the sagacious discovery that "virtue bad gone out of him," and fD.ui~
who touched him, the woman "knowing what was" (ah·eady) "done in her," came forward
and told him the truth. He then told her that her ''faith" had (already) made her whole.
Luke nlso says that the issue of blood staunched imfnediately upon her toucAiflg his rJfill·
ment. Then he goes on to relate, that Jesus made the inquiry, who had touched hilll, -and
that the woman then declared to him, before them all, that sh~ bad touched him, and "how
sh.e was': (had been) "healed immediately." There is no room to quibble upon this Jan~
E1ther h1s garments possessed mh·aculous po\ver, or it was her imagination that heal~--.--,
or she 'Ya~ not h~ale? at all-for.though an Evangelist say it, and though Jesus hi......,.7
have satd 1t! (wh1ch 1s n.ot very hk.ely,) no reasonahie. being can believe that he was fi~U.
a sort of.l'!nraculons "VIrtue," which, when a person touched his garment, passed outol'IIW,
as electnclty passes oot of a cylinder, and that he would feel it leave him, as he is repll...-t•
ed to h~ve done, and that too when he did not kuow beforehand that any person was goieg to
touch h1s garment.
~ut-to throw this disgusting nonsense about his "virtue" out of the question-there is
rational a.nd O~lVious explanation of this matter. It is this. Her faith, in the efficaey or
ply touchmg h1s garment, was so strong, that when she had touched it, she i
nnagine, or did "feel in her horly," that she wns healed, and told the bystanders so.
took her word that it was really so, without ever troubling themselves afterward to ••MIIIill
wh~ther sh~ were pert~ane.ntly healed. . Tb~re we~e too ma11y of these cures going on1
118Me
then eyes for them to mgu1re a second ttme m relat1on to one, which they supposed
been well performed. From the moment of the supposed cure, the story would
and these n~~rators afterwards recorded it as it came to them-having J,robahly neYer
of the cond1t1on of the woman after the time of the transaction· yet not doubting dial
were both a permanent cure and a miracle. '
The fourth case, which will be examined, is that of the man who l\·as said to have
ered hand. It is related by Matthew (12-10 to 19 ) 1\Iark (S-'1 to 6 ) and Luktt (K,.,,,!I......
II.) Independent of .the improbability t.hat a mira~le was ever wro~ght on earth, ttiere
two palpnble ones agamst the truth of th1s story. Otte is, that a withered Ji;nb is met ..~ta..M
r.arely,.that the ~bances are as an hundred to one, that those ignorant persons would
h~!lb \~lthered, when_it only h~~ some slight affection, rather than that 1t should he
\\lthete~•. Another 1mpro~ablltty of the change, in the man's power to use his .u-..I.Rlj
so great n~ to nfford any evidence of mira«;ujous po\Ver, arises from the circu u;"....,~.~.
TllE ALLEGED MlR.ACLES OF JESU~. ~7
the Scribes nnd Pharisees, who were among the most eulighteneu part of the community, and
of course the least likely to Le iu1posed on, iu nny case of an attelllptPtl or pretended nairacle,
there \Vere sou1c present, and they, when tlaey snw tlac art which otlacr:' suppo~cd to he a mir-
acle, were eurn~(!d at .Jesus for \\bat he had don<>. Tlw Ilanators of this e'·eut attribute th<'ir
anger to the n\ct that this act was douc on tile Sabbath clay. But it i~ rrao~t uaauifc::.tly n h~urd to
suppose that tucn, such a:s tlH'y undoubtedly were, could look on anti sc>e a naun's ha111l, that
wns actually \\ithcred, restored aud nmtle \\laolc hy n \\onl, and then hn\c the hardihood to
attempt violenre, or plot mischief against the bciug "ho hacl douc it. .t1fen arc not l'uch uton-
sters. llut if the fact was, ns all the proL::tbility of the ca;:;e goes to ~how it to laave l.weu, viz,
that in consefluence (If souac slig-ht iufinnity, thi~ [o;iuaple man imagined his hnud to be '' ither-
ed, and lwei not used it ns usual, but, wlten cowumaH..Icd by J esu~, in whose 111irn.culous po"·er
he bact coufidence, to stretch it forth, he used a little 111orc oflort than he wa::~ accu~tontctl to,
and stetchcd it out, and then, that mauy of' tl1e wore ignorant oucs, such ns his disciples,
should say n ntimcle had bceu wrought, it is perfectly t!aturul that the Sc:rihcs and Pharisees
should be enraged at seeing men thus duped by a. fanatic aud mere pr•~tcnder.
J esus made few ot· no converts among the enlightened part of the very untion that he pre-
teiHled to be sent more especially to convert. Instead of working his miracles freely before
such that they might ue convinced, he, when in another instance, they had asl<ed him to show
them a sign-apparently for the express purpose ofenabling them to determine whether he were
the 1\fes~iah-called them (probauly not to their face however) a wicked and adulterous gen-
eration fo1· seeking a sign , by which they might ascertain that fact, (l\1at. 16-4.) He was
also continually fomenting the most narrow, illiberal and spiteful prejudices against them, in
the minds of his ignorant followers. Such conduct, on his part, can be accounted for only by
the fact, that when they saw, with their own eyes, those acts, which he called miracles, they, in-
stead of being satisfied that he was the M essiah, were satisfied that he was an impostot.
The Bible represents the Jews as having been a people, upon whom God had bestowed pe-
culiar pdvileges, with a view of making them the depositaries of the true religion, ancl of pre-
paring them for the reception of the Messiah. Now if these representations in the Bible were
true, and if Jesus were t.be Messiah, whom God had been preparing the minds of the Jews tore-
ceive, it is absolutely absurd to suppose that they would not have been the very first to have
been convinced-and the fact, that they were not convinced, can be accounted for only by sup-
posing, either that God was rlefeated and disappointed in his attempts to prepare them to re-
ceive the Messiah, or tht1t Jesus was not the Messiah.
But to return. After Jesus had performed this supposed miracle, "he withdrew himself
from thence," (evidently through f ear of the Jews,) ''and charged" the people that had followed
him, "that they should not make him known/' (Mat. 12-14 to 16.) Very dignifietl conduct, in-
deed, for a Son of God, or a Saviour of the world, and one too who conld worlt miracles! llut
such was his course continually; and such cowardice reveals the character of the man, and
shows us how much credit is due to his pretensions. If he bud really been what he claimed to
be, or had had any thing like moral courage, he would haYe better sustained the character he
had assumed, and would have scorned that practice of skulking, which he so often adopted-
another still more contemptible instance of which, related by John (7-1 to 10,) has been before
referrecl to.
The fifth case, that related by John (5-2 to 9) only, of the "impotent man" at the pool of
Bethesda, waa probRbly like the last. The man, as simple ones generally, and others some-
times, do, probably magnified his infirmity, in his imagination, to a degree beyond the reality,
and when he was commanded to rise aiHl walk, he made more effort: and walked.better, than
usually, and that was a miracle.
The man evidently had full faith that he should be restored by being put into ~be pool, as is
shown by the fact of his being at the pool for that purpose; and if he had been put in pt·ecise-
ly at the time when he supposed the angel had troubled the waters, he would probably have
been restored in the same manner that others were. But if he had ·been put in at any other
time, he would have received no benefit-and for the very good reason, that he would not
have expected to receive any.
The facts that a "g1·eat multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt and withered," waited
at this pool for the angel to trouble the waters; that every one was cured of whatever disease
he had, by heing the first then to step in; and that none w~re cured, except such as stepped in
fi,1·st, prove that both the diseases and the cures were entirely, or in a great degree, i magina-
ry. There was apparently just as much efficacy in the supposed troubling of the pool by an
angel, and in the uiseased person's being the.first to step in after that had been done, as there
was in the command of .Jesus to rise up and walk, and no more. They both affected the ima-
ginations of the superstitious, and that effected all the cures there were in the cases.
Here too we are enablecl to sec how much of a miracle Jesus performed in restoting the
"withered hand," for John says that the "withered" could be restored by stepping- into this
pool, ajte1· the angel had troubled it, and before any other had been in. If then the --withPl'ed,
or those who supposed themselves withered, could in any case be cured by the power of the
imagination, they would as likely be when Jesus p1·etended to worlt a tni,racle upon them, ns
when they stepped into the pool. •
\
.- -----------....
IS THE DltiST'IJ REPLY.
The circumstance too that there were 10 ma~y withered ~eople_, a~ it is intimated by John
that there were, ut this pool, shows tba.t there 1:1 .no reaso!l m behevme: that tbey were actU•
all withered; IJecnu~e that is an affecuon, t~at IS exceedmgly rare. ! et those at the J)OOI,
w:O imagined tbemselve~ withered, are as hkely to have been reall} so, as the one whose
band .Jesus i~ snid to bave restored. " . . . . , b • "ho d ~u.
The sixth case, thnt or the womnn, who hRd a sp1r1t of mtirnuty, emg un .,~
Satan," as Jesus said (Luke 13-11 to 16); also the seventh ca~e, the cure of one leper,
(1\lttt. S-2 to 4, .Mnrk 1-40 to 44, Luke 5-12 to 14); also th.e eaghth case, t~e cure of IliaD
lepers! (Luke 17-12 to 19), (who ever saw ten lepers at a tune!) ,.also the mn.th case,.
cm·e of the ctrnp!'y, (Luke 14-2 to 4), were all undoubtedly cu~es ?t the same kmd as those
that we•·a perfu•·med by Valentine Greatrak'~ glove, or by s~eppmg snto the p~ol of Bethesda
fird after it ,.,.·as supposed that the waters ha~d been tro~bled by an angel. It IS ver~ proMbte
thRt nine out of the ten of these lepers, d1d not cons1der themselves restored, fot altlaoasla
one retur:1ed to thnuk Je~us for what he had done, the nine did not tnke that trouble.
'Ve hea·e have an opportunity to see on how slight a pretence these narrators w4?ulcls11alte
up a story of a genuine, uJ~doubte<! miracle. These lepe~s are represented as standmr c•-afar
off," from Jes11:s, and calhng to hun to he healed. He s1mply tells them to go to the J!l1e~t.
They go, and nine of them do not return. Yot Luke says the whole were clean~ed. ~w,
if they did not return, how did he know whether they were clean!lecl or not! Why, be •Jittr-
red they must have been, and related it for a fact that they were, although he ktUto not6iog
about it.
There is no reason for supposing that any of these cures were any better ones th~o those
effected nt the pool, nnd it is clear that the cures at the pool were all the work o~ the Imagina-
tion, or that the diseases themselves wera so, and that thare was no efficacy •n the wate1'8;
becHuse, if there had been any efficacy in the waters, people would have learned that die
second one, who should step in after the gurgling of the water, could be htaaled as well as the
fir~t. If the imagination cured, at the pool, diseases, that were supposed to be real, the per-
son:1, whom Jesus cured, it is reasonable to suppose, had no diseases more real, or m..-.&11-
cuh of cure, tha11 the others, and were restored, or apparently restored, solely by beio1 made
to imagine themselves mh·aculously operated upon.
Thare are fout· ditferent cases recorded of the cure of blind persons, viz: one in Matthew
(9-27 to SO), where two were cured; one in Mark ('S-22 to 26), where one was cured; 8118
in John (9-1 to 7), where one was cured; one in 1\tlatthew (20-50 to S4), Mark (lo-4f.to
52), and Luke (lS-85 to 48), where one, according to Mark and Lulte, and two, aeconltr.g
to .Matthew, were cu•·ed. The accounts of Matthew, Mark and Lul(e, in the last case, refer
to the sarne transaction, as appears by the context-for it toolc place, as they all say, wba
Jesus Waif near Jericho; and the similarity of the languagE", quoted hy all, as ha\•in' been uted
by the blind person ot• penuns, confirms the fact. Ta·ue it i~, these cautious and credible hia-
torians disagree as to the number cured; but in a·elating so probable fncts as miracles, soob a
slight di~c•·epancy does not at all impair the ca·edihility of the men, a sto all important l!articu-
lar-:5. Such a disagreement is not, in fa~t, at nll material, for blind men in those days, Judcing
from the Bible, were nearly as frequent as those who could see.
These also were probably cure() in the same wny as were tho~e "blind" persona, ~
John says, (5-S and 4)., were cua·ed at the pool of Bethesda-and they were probabt9 j-·· ··a
blind as tho:!e, and no more so. How dicl it happen that the blind were so numerous) ...
the bl_incln.e-3~ real, feigned, imaginary, total orpart~al? To give a correct ans\ver tn thklut
question, 1t 1s only necessary to tttke mto consulerat1on the number of those called blilid, *
the manner in which those at the pool were curerl.
Some of these blind men also seem to have had a power of locomotion rather unul1laJ to
say the least, in really blind persons. On one oceasion, (Mat. 9-27, 28), "two blind ri.en
follotDea Jesus, and when he was come into the bouse, the bliml men came to '""'·" 8a
another occasion (John 9-7) he told the blind man to "go, wash in the pool of an..,
and the blind rna~ "went his wa)'."
In some ca~es Jt appeau that Jesus cured the blind on certain conditions. For ,.....,..,
in one case (Mat. 9-28 and 29), he required of the blind men that they should believ•• .W.
~tJnce, tha~ he ~Val! "able''. to t·estore theit· sight, and consented to heal them only in ·r.'IN~te~r­
tlon to thetr flutb. It requ1res but half an eye to see that tbe object of this condition
have sorneth!ng to attribute his failure to, in case his miraculous power should nnt
wen.u He, m that ca.<te, would unquestionably have said cc 0 ye of little faith. why1
doubt?" and Woul.d thus bave made tbos~ asses believe that the failure WftS owinr\0
doubts. _In other InStances ~e used more Jucrglery and cea·emony than woult.l lleem to -~Jill
cessary, 1f he wea·e a real m1racle worker. 1n the case related by John (9-6 and "'"''"'Cl•:te1
tftil
1pat on the gro~nd, an.d made clay of the spittle, and anointed the eyes of the blind .w.ii.e>•illlilll•
the clay, and smrl to h1m, ~u, wa~h m tbe pool of Siloam." In the case, which is re••••
Mark.only (S-22 t? 26), he led the msn out ofthe toun to do it· he then tpit on his ev11~
put h1s hnn•ls on h1m, and then asked him it" he could see. The man could not tbtll88il
clea•·ly, alt.hough he could .see well enough to discover that a man looked like a tree.
then put h1s hands upon b1s eyes again, and bade lim look up/ whereupon the mao
tinctly. Je1u1 then commanded him, " neither to go into tile town, nor tell it to _,. IIJ!II-.
t'H£ AI.LEG ED l\11R \CL F.S Of' JESUS. 29
town"-a very singular commnncl to be gh en by one, who was working real miracles in order
to JH'ove to the world at large that he was the Messiah.
\Ve, of cours;e, cannot say ab::wlutely that there could not have been real miracles performed
hP.re; but, if there were, any but "blind men'' can see thut they were not wrought in n norlt-
mnnlikc 11lanner.
The next ens(', being the fourteenth, that will he cxnrnined, is that of the nllcg-ecl re~tora­
tiou of the tlau•rhtet· of J airus from the dead, nnd is relntc<.J hy 1\lntthew (9-18 to 26), l\tark
(5-22 to 43), :nd Luke (8-41 to 56). Now, supposing the story ~rue, that the child arose,
when Jesu~ " took her uy the baud," that does ll()t prove that a llllracle was performed, he-
cause we do not know that she was dead. These narrators Hny only what is equivalent to
saying) that those in the house b_elieved l~e1· dead; but it would nppetu, fi·om Luke's accouut,
that aJle~· Jesus hu(l seen the <~htld, he snul she was not <.lend, but that she slPpt.
'The child, sny the accounts, was twel\'e years old. How often is it that children of that
a(Te have fits, which, for a short time, cause them to nppea1· <lend, nnd are, immediately nfter-
~'lrd, restored to health? How soon, afte1· Je:-us went into the room, she arose, we cannot
know, because those who ~ive us the story, did not see the transaction-they exprel'sly say
that, of his followers, only Peter, James and John ''ere suffered to go with him. Whether
Jesus lifted her up, as he did Simon's wife's mother, we do not know, Lut there is ground for
the strongest presumption that he did, because " be took her by the hand."
The most rational supposition that can he formed ft·om the tht·ee disagreeing, indefinite and
and carelessly told stories, whicl1 come ftom men who did not see the transaction, is, that the
child had a fit, (perhaps only a common fainting fit), and lay appw·ently dead at the time the
father ran for Jesus; and that when he arrived at the house, and before he went into the room
where the child was, those, that had been in the room, but had then come out, told him that
she was dead; but that, by the time he had come to the child, the fit had left her, and she lay
asleep; and that then, in the course of the time he remained in the room, (how long that
might be is uneertain), he spoke to her, took her by the hand and lifted her up, and that she
then had in a consirlerable degree recoveretl. Jf such were the case, the story hns come to us
in just the shape we should suppose such a story would, coming, as this does, from men, who
did not see any thing thnt they relate, but who honestly believed, from what they hem·d, that
a miracle was performed. .
But tbet·e a1·e two o1· tht·ee circumstances, which render it extt·emely doubtful whether there
was any thing in this occurrence, which, to the eyes of the actual witnesses, appeared even so
marvellous ns the cnse, above supposed, would have been lil<ely to do. One is, that J esus,
when they came to him first, and told him the child was dead, would permit but three of his
disciples to go in with him; und after the transaction (whatever it might ue) was over, he
charged them, and the parents also, to say nothing of it to any one. Another link in this chain
of suspicious circumstances, is, that John, who, as the others say, was an eye-witness, says
not a ~yllable about the matter. Now since Jesus would permit hut three of his disciples to
go in, anrl charged all, who were eye-witnesses, to reveal nothing, and as John, in his narra-
th.re, obeys this injunction, the fair presumption is, that Jesus, when he heard she was clead,
doubted his ability to restore bet·, and did not choose to have too many witnesses to a failure ;
and that after he had come into the room, the transaction was not of such a kind, that he
thou~~t it safe fot· his reputation as a mil·acle-worker, that it should be known abrond; but
that l\1atthew, Mark and Luke afterward obtained an inkling of the affair, which in some wny
leaked out, and which proved sufficient to enable them to make such a brief account of a sup-
posed miracle as they have done.
Are we to believe a r~velation on the testimony of works done in secret, and ordered tQ be
kept sect·et?
The fifteenth case is related hy John (4-46 to 54) of the cure of the son of a noblem11n of
Capernaum. It appears that Jesus did _
not see the subject of this miracle, He was at l10me;
the father came to Jesus, and was told by him that his son lived; he (the father) then went
awQy alone, and, a8 John says, met his servants, who told him that his son was better, &c. Now,
s.ince Joh!l did ~ot _go with the father, nor se_e the son, or know any thing personally about the
ttme.of h1s begtunmg to .amend? al~ the testt mon_y, that we have here to support the slightest
posstble pretence of a muacle, ts stmply John'~ vtrtual declantion that he heard {how, or from
whom, he heard it, the deponent saith not), that at the same hour ·when Jesus told the man his
son should live, the son hegan to amend; and that he (John) had no doubt, from these circum-
stance~, that JP.sus wrought a miracle upon the sick man. But I suppose the day has gone by
whf'n such "circumstantial evidence'' as this, is sufficient to prove a miracle.
'l'he _sixtee nth CtJ.sc, is that related by Matthew (8-6 to 13) and Luke (7-2 to 10), of the
Cenr.unou's servant at Capernaum, and is probably the same one as the last; but as the accounts
differ a little, I thought proper to consider them as referrina to different transactions. Here
too the perso~ sick was at a d·istance from J esus; so that ev:n if Matthew were with Jesus at
the time, (which, if true, is not stated), he could not have personally known anv thing about the
cure, and could only have heard of it, as John did in the other case. But l suppose rew men
w·ould now (although many would at the time of Jesus) belie\'e a miracle was wrouo-ht. simply
because a man, who believed in miracles, should sav that he had heard, in a particul~r case of
such circumstances as satisfied his mind that there was ono. Besides, 'mother pa-rt of ~fat-
30 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
thew's story cannot be true. The man said his servant was "sick of the pal.ty,grievouslrtor-
mented." This could not be the case, because palsy, instead of grievously tom1enting folks,
never occasions pain, but generally deprives them of aU sensibility to pain.
But supposing the servant did have a sudden and painful attack of some sort, which alarmed
the Centurion, and then, while the Centurion was gone to Jesus, did actually recover frOID it,
that is no proof of a miracle, because such t~mporary illnesses are frequent occurrences.
I now come to the examination of those cases, where Jesus is said to ha\'e cast out de«
But we will first inquire whether there ever were such a thing as men's beinu possessed 'fll
devils. There is perhaps not an enlightened Christian in America, who, notwilhstanding-'8
may believe that, at the time ofJesus, men were possessed of devils, believes that they eve~•
been in any otner instance, either before or since. And those, who believe that suCh .,...Ure
fact then, believe it simply becnuae a particular set of superstitious men, in a supersti~~
~ ,
believed so, and have relnted some circumstances about it, which they say happenfit-at t
timt~. The testimor.y of the whole Jewish nation, who did not also believe in Jestts, woutd
have made them credit it for a. moment. If the same thing had been stated in any otli&ri\fd
than the Bible, men now would no more credit it, than they would an assertion that JtJen ~e
inhabited by the spirits of oxen and horses. Yet such is the unparalleled gullibility of. _..
men in relation to every thing related in the Bible, or connected with Christianity.
There are indeed many Christians now, who do not pretend to believe in this matter ~y.
They will say that they suppose those individuals, out of whom Jesus was said to cut lfifils,
were insane, or bad some disorder, which the people of that nation, being ignorant of~
,. es,
attributed to the influence of ''evil or unclean spirits;" and that whatever that diso ~
have been, Jesus cured it miraculously. But if such men will look at the accounts .as "'
told to us in the New Testament, taking the collateral circumstances, which are related, as ~
it is absolutely out of the power of the human mind, either by sophistical interpretation t.f ~..
guage: or by any possible perversion of intellect, to believe that those persons were i~ or
that they had nny disordea·, unless an imaginary one, other than that of being actually alld an.e.
quivocallv inhabited by such evil spirits, as, if they really exist~d, might more properi;Y g tf&-
nominated devils than any thing else. The narra.tives of the doings of Jesus state the~
numbe1· of devils, that went out of particular individuals-thus leaving no chance for EKJ.Ui~
tion, or any apology for the pratence that the persons were insane, in the ordinarY. a.-.ptafjd
of the word. For example, out of Alary .L\lagdalen there actually went ae'Den devils-~
dividual spirits, or this affair of being possessed of devils was all a (lclusion. In oth~
Jesus is said to have cast out ope, and in one instance a leg~on. If therefore men :will ~·
the Bible, they must believe in devals too.
'rhese accounts say further that these devils would apeak. 1\lark says (5-12), afte~
spoken of a legion of devils being cast out, that ·'all the devils besought him, sayma. .....,_
into the swine, that we may enter into them." If we believe the truth of these :.llllt!t..,B'\
there is no escape fro01 believing that there were such living and speaking creatures u - -
who inhabited both men and-swine !
Here the believer, or ro.ther the one who wishes to be a believer (for I do not thiek-it~
ble for any person of common knowledge nnd common sense any longer to be actually.......
perhaps, in the height of his embarrassment, put the question, how then are these.-]fi
~e explained, unless we belie\·e that those, who relate them, were knaves and liarc ~
swer this question is very easy. The people of that nation were superstitiou.s eBGUfrh to-
••-••·
in devils, (as people have sometimes believed in witches)~ and to believe tbat they en.... l$
men, and then controlled thE'm as they pleased. When such a belief \Vas prevalea't *"•eJ~
~IJe
expected that among the more ignorant, wbo composed tho great body of the ColrnltltUJ.!~II!IIIIf
would be multitudes, who would imagine themselves to be possessed of them, JWllt:as.::sDII8'11!1W•
son, who have belie,·ed in witchcraft, have imngined themselve~ be\vitched. A M1IWI~-6
should suppose himself under the dominion of devils, would imagine himself ~
Jed, by a power which be could not resist, to such unnatural and strange conduct u Jie~WIM**i
r.ti.
an evil spirit would instigate men to. And this fact accounts for the conduct of tbtf
mPn, for here aaain the stories disagree), spoken of by .1\Iatthe\v (8-28 to 34), Dll-111~
17), and Luke {8-27 to 36), who was said to Jive among the tombs, to be driven IM•II
i:lto the wilderness, &c. A man in this condition, could be restored in no other
some deception of th.. imagination. This man tJJa-8 so restored. He believed •l-Aillnl~••
Son of God, as is proved by the fact that he addressed him as the "Son of the most Bill~
He believed also that Jesus had power over evil spirits, as is proved by the
"besouo-ht him not to torment him." \Vhen therefore this powerful being should
devils t~ go out of him, be, of course, would suppose that they bad left him, and lhJIIM
pear the sane. As for the rest of the circumstances related, such as that of the a_,~fftf'l
inu, going into the swine, &c., they are only such embelliahnumtl as a story of tnt ~rn•~­
naiurally gain by a very little circulation in such a community as that-and these h
give us the accounts, having, like the rest of their countrymen, perfect faith in the
such circumstancea, would relate them, as they heard them, without in the least do
truth. It is evident that they only recorded die :ftying story of the times, from the
THE ALLEGED MIRACLES OF JESUS. 31
lhev disagree as to the number healed. 1\Ia.tthew says two, l\lark and Lul~o bnt one. That their
difterent nccount:3 refer to the same trausnction, i~ evident frotll the silllilarity of the stories,
and the lanC'I'u:we of each, and also from the cil'clllllStauce that they arc rclt.Lted by each immc-
o 0 J .
diately after the st0ry of csus's caloung the tcmp~Jst.
BesHlcs the abo-.e, therE:"l arc five difier~nt instt.Lnccs of Jesus'r; casting out devils. One is re-
lated by .i\lark ( l-2:3 tu 2G), and Lulie (-l-a:J to ~:i). From uoth these accounts, it appear8 tllat
the man, out of whom the devil was supposed to be cast, con.:Oiclered Jcsus "the Holy one of
God;" untl thnt circumstance is suflicieut evidence that the cure, lilcc the di::;ealic, was the work
of the imaginalwn.
1\nother case is related by .Mark only, (7-25 to 30). All that 1\lo.rl< knew of this case as
appears from his account, was, that he hcurcl, (fur he is not supposed to have been with Jcs~la),
that n woman carne to J•~sus, and tvltl him that her daughter, who was at home, was posse~scd
of a deviJ; that he told her the devil had gone out; nud that when she arrive<! at home, she
found her daughter lying on a bed. To l\lark's mind, and perhaps also to tho minus of some
men in more modern ages of the wor1d, these facts, thus obtained, proved a mil·acle.
Another case is related by Matthew (17-14 to 2l), l\Iarlc (9-17 to2U), and Luke (!l-:Js to
42). According to ~Jnrl<'s account, Jesus "rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou
dumb antl deaf spirit, I charge t.hee, t.;U,IE ouT OF IIIM, and elltcr no more into him." (Can
any thing be imagined more ludicrous or disgusting thnn such a speech? Verily, "ue,·cr man
spakc lil<e this man"). Still, nfter he l1ad said thus, "the spirit cried, and rent him sore, unu
came out of him, and he was as one deo.d, insomuch that many said he is dead. Dut Jesus
took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he-AnosF. !" an,l from the c.ircurnstance that he
did arise, ancl probably appear more calm than before, they all inferred that he had been deliv·
ered of a real de\·il.
This wonderful_ exhiuition of miraculous po'':er so astonished !esus's disciples, that they af-
terwards asked hun why thPy could not cast lum out? (They, It seems, had attempted it, and
failed, (7\I:nk 9-11:3). He answererl-doubtlcss with an air and manner Lecoming the solemn
nature of the casc-tha_t "this kind (of devils) can come forth (be brought forth) by nothing,
but by prayer and--fastmg !" .
Another case is rein ted by 1\Iatthew only (9-32 to 3-t), of the cure of a dumb man, possessed
of a devil. I will here add nothing, but a note of admiration, \vhich appears to be very much
uceded, to the following brief, but graphic description of this affair by ~lattlJew himself. "And
when the devil was ca::n out, the dumb spake, and the multitudes marvelled !"
The last case of this ldnd of miracle-worl<ing, that remains to be mentioned, is that of the
cure of the man, who, according to Luke (11 -14), was dumb, hut, according to 1\latthew (12-
2'2), was both blind and dumb. lloth accounts refer to the same transaction, as may be seen by
the conlext following en.ch. 'I'he difference in the accounts, of course, proves only the fwnesllJ
of the writers; it does, by no means, prove their lack of inspiration, their carelessness about
particulars, or their readiness to record any idle story, which they might hear, without inquirincr
cautiously into its truth. Each one supposed that future generatione could only \Vish to kno\~
the simple fact that a miracle was wrought; and therefore, not imagining that they themselves
could ever be suspecterl of having been mistaken as to the reality of the miracle, did not trouble
themselves to relate many of those circumstances, that would enable men now to judge whether
they actually were or not.
Matthew ~ays that "they brought unto Christ one possessed with a devil, blind and dumb
and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spal<e nnd saw.'' Luke snys, "and
Christ was casting out a devil, nnd it was dumb. And it caiHC to pass, when the devil wr.s gone
out, the dumb spal<e, and the people wondered."
Langua~e could hardly be selected, that should tell a stronger tale of superstition, than is
conveyed in these b1·ief lines. l\Ien imagining themselves possessed of a devil! and that the
devil prevents them from seeing! and speaking! olhers standing around to see the Son of God
dislodge a devil, ns boys stand aronnd to see the triclts of a juggler.
If the Bible has accomplished enough of good to atone for the numerous and mischievous
superstitions, which, in various ways, it has entailed upon, and introduced into, men's minds
it has done more good than, I think, is apparent to most impartial observers of the whole of th~
l1istory of Christendom, as compared with that of other nations of the same degree of intelli-
gence. Even if it has not originated, it has, at least, justified, spread, and probubly prolono-e<l
a belief in witchcraft and sorcery-it has introduced superstitions about a Son of God; AB~vT
liiS VISITI~G THE EARTH I.N THE DISGUISE OF A 1\J..Hi! about a lloJy Ghost, or floly phantom •
about a fictitious atonement, and a barbarous an<l useless sacrifice, which have for aO'CS and
centuries engrossetl the mincls of the few learned men, who othenvisc rnig!Jt have b~en en·
gaged in liberal schemes for improving society. And finally, it Jws spread witle a belief in
angels, and miracles, and evil spirits-in a devil and his ten thousand deputies prowlino- about
the universe.
0
r. must now th~nk that, ?f the thirty-three miracles of Jesu~, twenty two ha-y·e been disposed
of m a manner, tf not sallsfactory to, o.t leust, unanswerable by, the most resolute believer.
l1
:1even retnC\in to be examined.
'l'H.E DEIST'S REPLT.
One is that of calming the tempest, recorded by Matthew (8-24 to 27), Mark (4-37 to 41),
and Lulce (8-23 to 25). .1\lat.thew says "the ship was covered with tiJe waves." .Mark ••.1•
"the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now fuU." Luke says "they were JiUtd watla
_ water." Now we know tllat these accounts cannot be true, because Jet=us would not ha\·c re-
mained nslcep, had t.hi&S been tbe case. These er.rors are !"entioned me!ely to sho~v the pro-
pensity these men had to exaggeration-a propensuy, tluat, m maoy other mstances, Js mandeet
enough ; bu~ which is here so palpable that it cannot be denied•
.Matthe'v says "there arose a: great tempE'st,'' antt ~lark says "there ~rose a great ato~ or
wind." But since these men have already been convicted of exaggeration, we may now JHP
for ourselves how great a "tempest" woulJ be likP.ly to arise on a.little pett~ lak~; (f«?urt.aen
miles loner, nnd five wide;) and, unless we have a very strong desire to beheve 1n m1raclea,
we shall probably come to the conclusion that a slight squall arose, such as generaliy continues
for a few minutes; that, it being in the e\'ening (as Mark says, and as is probable fro• lfte
circumstance that Jesus avos aslt>ep,) thf'se timid and surer~titous men tlaoughl they sbould cer-
tainly be drowned; that Jesus, being called, commanded the '"l\ves of thas migh1y sea to lie
quiet; that when tleis sudd~n ~quail had pass~d. wbich probably happened very soon, tbe ._....
subsuJed, and they then thought the act of Jesus a miracle. The::.ce narrators, ahheuglr thy
generally appear \'ery fond of using the worrl "immediatP.Iy," when relating any occurreaee,
which they them9clves cou!d nol have seen, but in relataon to which that wo1 d is nee...., ia
order to make out a good miracle, have, nevertheles~t, in this ca~e, neglected, for some reason
or another, to tell us how soo1J, after the command wos gh·en, quiet was rPstored-the fair pre-
sumptjon is then that the wind and waves took their own time in thi3 matter, as they at..,.
have done in every other of the same kinc1. *
Another is that of Je$ns's walking on the sea, related by 1\Jatthe\v (14-24 to 32,) Jhrk (1-
47 to 51,) ancl John (6-15 to 21.) John says that nfier Jesu:~ hacl entered the ship, "tiRPINi-
ately it was at land whitht·r they went"-of course, it must have been 11ear lht 1l11~re wlrea Je-
sus came to it. Furtht-rmore, they all agree tlutt it "as in the night; J uhn eays it "" diTk.
Now, inasmuch as Jesus never shewed auy inclination to trust hineself on the water io tbe
da.JJ·time, without any thin~ ro bear hi,n \fP, is it not pa·obable thot he h:ul nt this tiane a plenlr,
a slightly built roft, o. small boat, or something el~e to stand on, which those in the ship or lw1e
boat dicl not see, or that he walked in the water instend of on it, rather than thot he att'etftJ*td
to perform a tnirncle of that sort, and at that time, when none but his di~ciples, and prubaldr
not even these, would ob:-;erve it? If he reully could walk on the water. wby did he mC. at
least once in his life, do it in the day-time, and in tbe presence of a concourse of people? lie
surely had opportunities enough. ·
Bnt perhaps it will be asl•ed, how did Jesus gr.t to that side of the Jake, unless he ...aid
across the water? and a person, who should simply read the accounts of tbis afFair, wi.._.
looking at the map, would 1•robably be misled into the supposition that the bll&t had ~~~~
the lake, to the other side frorn where the tli~ciples had left Jesus, and thP.refore that he e.W
uot httve come to them unless he had crossed the lake also. But according to John (6-lit) il
was at or near Tiberias, that the discip:es left Jesus, and they landed (1\lat. 14-34) ia ""t..
le.nd of Genessaret ;" and it so happened that Tiberias and Gene:'saret are on tJ•e • •
of the lake, (See Ingraham's map of Palestine) adjoining each other. Jesn~, tber•~
doubtadly walked from one place to the other, (perhaps a mile or two) on the land, Willitl ..
disciples \Yt!Dt in the boat.
The third one of the eleven is that of the fig-tree, re]ated by l\tallhew (21-17 to II.)
Mark (11-12 to 2.3.) 1\Iatthew says the fi2'·tree withered away '' prtltnUy.'' Mark •1•
as they passed tile next morning they discovered that it waa withered away. But tltey .......
as nearly as we con reasonably suppose two such persons \VOuld, who shouid relllte ..._....
upon hears11y. Since the story has nothing probablt! about it, and since the accounts di~fil
it is probable \hat thf'y both differ 11 little from the truth, and that the fig-tree was witiW
away when they.first came to it. This supposition is rPndered more probable by the fac3,
Luke, who spealcs of Jrsud being at Bethany (19-29 to 40.) and of some other circn•tllll-il
mentioned by Matthew, says nothing about the fig-tree. It is also rendered probable hr a.
fact that there were no figs on the tree. .l\lark pretends to account for there being no 1!11
it, hy saying that the time Of fit!S had not yet COmP.-but this is clearly a falsehood, f(Jf if
were the truth, why did Jesus go to the tree at all? Or wnv did he manifest so much
pointment at not findin1 figs, as to" curse" ev~n a tree?" f
* In confirmation of the truth of this e1:planation, I quote from Came, a recent ChristiBD ~
Palestine, who says, in describing this lake, ~at "t~e b~ats nsed on it are, in some seasoas of the t.
much exposed from the sudden squalls of WlDd, whach assue from between the mountains."
I have tnken some pains to procure ':Carne's Travels in the East," (or Letten &om the _ .....,.~
be able to refer the reader to the page where this fact is stated; but the book is a rare one, and
found it. I can therefore only refer to an extract published in the American Traveller (Boston)
1833, Article, Lake _Tiberias.
t llark 11-21. )Iuter, behold the flc-tree, which thou CV1'1tUt, is witbered away.
THE ALLEGED MIRACLES OF JESUS. 3S
The fourth, related by Mark only (7-32 to 36,) is that of the cure of a man "who was deaf~
a11d had an impediment in his speech." Jesus, in order doubtlessly to have a fair oppo1·twnity
to pe1form this miracle, and to do it in a manner to furnish evidence to the world of his mirac-
ulous power, "took the man asidt from the multitude." When he had done this, he "put his
jinge1·s into his ears;" "then spit, and touched his tongue;" then "lool{ed up to heaven, and
sighed,'' and 11ttered the word Epbphatha, and thus, as Mark heard the story, opened the man's
ears, and loosed the string of his tongue so that be spake plain, and then "charged them that
they should tell no nwn" of the occurrence.
The fifth, related by John (2-1 to 10,) is that ofturning the water i.nto wine. John says that
this was •.he first miracle that Jesus ever performed ; but does not say that he saw it done; and
if it were his first at~empted miracle, it is entirely improbable that John was present. Hesides,
towards the close of the preceding chapter, John speul<s particularly of Andrew, Peter, Philip
and Nathanael, as having- become disciples of Jesus; hut mentions none others as such, previ-
ous to this wedding. \Ve n1ust therefore suppose that John here only tells us a hearsay story.
Now it would l>e nothing strange if Jesus were to go to a wedding-nor would it be any thing
strange if they were to have wine there-nor would it be strauge if Jesus should there rnake
some pretensions to miracle-working--nor would it be strange, if, out of these circumstances,
after he had obtained a little notoriety in his way, a story should be got up ond circulated simi-
lar to. that told by John; but it would be very strange if a man should work a miracle ; and it
woulu also be very strange that neither Matthew, Mark, nor Luke should ever have heard of
this miracle, if there really were one wrought, (if tbey had heard of it, some of them W(.;)Uld un-
doubtedly have recorded it, since they have taken the pains to record so many things of no con-
sequence at all); and it would also be very strange if the saviour of a world should perform
either his first or last miracle of this kind. We should as naturally expect a Sou of God would
exhibit his powers by making broomsticks dance cotillions, as by such a miracle a~ this. Still-
as was before remarked-such a man as I ha.ve supposed Jesus to have been, would, when first
beginning hesitatingly to think about working miracles, be ve1·y likely to have made an attempt
or pretension-of this kind-and if he but made such an attempt or pretension, that circumstance
alone would afford sufficient materials for a futu rP. ~tory.
The sixth, related by Luke (7-11 to 16), is that of raising from the dead the son of the
widow of Nain. This story is told by none but Lnke. He, as I have said before, was a citizen
of Antioch, and was converted to Christianity by Paul-of course, he never knew any thing
personally of Jesus or his miracles; he must therefore have depended entirely upon the stories
of others for his information. Of whom he obtained it in this instance we know not. He wrote
his nanative some thirty or forty years after the death of Jesus. So that all the evidence we
have here to prove an occurrence so wonderful as that of a man's being restored to life after he
bad once died, is a simple declaration. made many years afterward, by a man living remote from
the place, and who could not have personally known any thing about what he was writing, but
who has been shown heretof<>re to be credulous enough to believe miracles on the testimony of
others.
Furthermore, neither of the other narrators, althongh two of them were of the twelve, give
us any account of such an occurrence, although, if it really happened, they would most. surely
have heard of it, and if they had heard of it, they would as surely have related it; for, in order
to malte their stories a..; marvellous as possible, they have already gorie so fur as to reiate -for
undoubted miracles many things, which they could nol have known to be true, even if they
were true. -
The ~eventh case: that of rnising Lazarus from the dead, is related by John only, (11 chapter)·
John does not say that he saw the act. If then we believe that, in this casP., a man really died,
and was then resto1·ed to life again, we must believe a fact, such as we could not now be made
to believe if ten thousand of tl1e most respectable men of any nation on earth should solemnly
testify that they saw it. We nwst believe it too on the testimony of a single individual-one
who gives the account forty years after the transaction is alleged to have been performed; who
does not even say that he saw it; who is nol supported by a single one of the many alleged eye·
witnesses, nor by the testimony of any other per~~>on.
If the ten thousand should testify as I have supposed, we should then say, either that the
man had not been actually dend, or that some deception or another had been p.-actised upon the
witnesses-and we shonltl say so with perfect confidence too, because we should know, as ab-
solutely as it is possible for tls to know any thing, that such an occurrence could not have hap-
pened. Yet we are called upon to bel ievEl it in this case, upon such testimony as I have men-
tioned. Js it possible that the attempt can be made at this day~ to impose upon men's under-
standings by such stuff as this?
But there is evidence tendinu to disc1·edit this storv of John.
0 •
One part of this evidence is, that neither Matthew, Mark nor Luke speak of the affair. Yet
Luke heard of, and even related (10-38 to 42), so small and unimportant a circumstance as that
of Jesus's once being in Bethany, at the house of Martha, the sister of Lazarus, and yet he
never heard (as we· may safely infer from the fact that he never rejated it) of this miracle
5
\J
S4 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
wrought upon Lazarus-a miracle too, that is so much more wonderful than Jesus was generally
supposed to perform.
If Jesus had actnally raised Lazarus from the dead, and the act could have been w~llnuthen­
ticated, (hardly a supposable cttse however), it mnst have heen evidence of the strongest char-
acter of any t!lat his works had ever furnished, that. he posses~ed miraculous power-and so his
disciples must have considered it, if they had possessed common understandings. Yet it \Q8
never noised abroad so as that any exc~pt John ever heard {If it.
Matthew (26-6 to IS), l\lark (14-S to 9), and Lulte (7-57 and SS) also heard of, andre-
]ated, the circumstance of l\lary, wllom John says (11-2) was the sister of Lazarus, anoint-
in" the bead of Jesus with ointment, yet they neither of them utter a syllable about his rais-
ing her brother ft·om the dead. It is difficult to account for this fact, unless we suppose that
John was actually dishonest, or that he took up, believed aud recorded a flying story, \vbicb
an occur·rence of some kind had given rise to, but which was without any foundation in truth.
Furthermore, John says (11-45, 46 and onwaa·d) whnt is equivalent to saying, that a p8.l;'t
of the eye-witnesses themselves, not only disbelie\•ed that.Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead,
but beliaved that he was attempting to practise some imposition upon them. He says, "then
many of the Jews, which came to .
1\Iary, and had seen the things which Jesus dicl, believed on
him, but," he adds, (and this "but" spoils hi~ story) "some of them went their ways to dle
Phadsees, and tulcl them what things Jesus had done.'' He then represents that the Pbari-
see!:S forthwith attempted to apprehend him, on account of the stories that hnd been told them
by some of those who had witnessed the transaction.
It seeilrs hardly possihle to vindicate John from the chaa·ge of actual disbonest)·-for he pre-
tends to relate even the conversation, which the Pbari:Jees held on this subject, when be cer-
tainly coulrlnot have known it. He nlso attrihutes to them motives ami desi~ns, which it is
impossible shoulcl e\•er inhabit the breasts of human beings, viz: such as wi:;;hes to lake a
man's lif11 because be hncl raised a person from the dead. It i:-; also incredible that they should
dare attempt !Such an act, even if they wished to have it perforrnecl.
I think it would nut be difficult to show that John's loYe of distinction, his hatred of die
Pharisee3, and his dete.-.nination to spmad Christianity, led him to dishonest lengths in Otfter
cases. ·He was the one, (1\larl\ 10-3:• to 41), who wns so engcr to ohtnin frotn Jesus a
pa·orni~e of preference over the rest of hi:s disciples, in heaven, (or more probably itt the
earthly ldn~dorn), as that they were nffewiP-d ut him. He shows the snnae disposition afttr-
warfl..;, in Ius own narrative, hy speaking of himself, iu four or five different places, as cc that
disciple whom Jesus loved,"-thus pretending that be himself was the favorite over tiJe
othet·s.
He also equivocates, (21-22 and 2S), by pretending thnt Je~us, or the one whom he $lip-
posed to he Jesus, did not mean what hi~ words most plainly import, and what John ncko.ow.l-
e•!ges that the disciples at the tirne under;::,tood biru tn mean. His moti\•e for this equiN'oee-
tiou may be traced to a circumstanr.e related in his Biography in Lempricre's Biographicatl
Dicthmar·y, where it i8 z.;aid that he wa·ote his narrati\·e fur the purpose of pro\•iog that Je.sw
was not a man, and in oppo~ition to what he deemed an error, \'iz: a belief, at that time
avowed, that he wns hut a man. This equivocation was nece~sna·y in order to make h a-pp&at"
that Jesus did not intend to intimate that certain things would happen, \"ihicb had not bappm..·
ed~ and were not likely to.
This purpose, in writing his narrativP., accounts for his superior carefulness in re1atigll in
connexion with the supposed miracles, any circumstances that might tend to discredit theitl'e-
ality; and also for the conversations whicb he relates as attending them; although it isevM_,t
that he must either have invented much of them, or adopted them from the mouthsofo.._,
without nny thing like reasonahle evidence of tbdr genuineness-the former ofwbich ~­
sitions appear5 the moa·e probable, both .fi·om his own character, (for be could then inY6'dt
sur.b conversation as would suit the circumstances of the case), and also from the fact tbatlte
could not, forty years afterward, have remembea·ed such full, connected and unbroken_...
versations as be has pretended to relate.
John also (12-10 and II) ~how5 his bitter mnlignity, nnd his readiness to make tbct iliilliifll
diabolical charges, against such as did not belieYe Jesus to be the 1\lessiah, by saying tfMit W.
Chief Priests "consultecl that they might put Lazarus also to death."
Finally, be has more unmeaning theological cant in his narrative than all the other three.m-
gether.
N evertbeless, it is possible that John has told an honest story in this case of ~a.:c.a£ulr.iA1II
one too that is true in its main features. But if he has done so, he has imp) a
whose character is of· much more consequence to the Christian religion, thnn his
that man is Jesus. SevE'rnl circumstances are related in this story, which, if the.y are
ered to have really happened, furnish palpable and glaring e\·idence Qf co11uston be11\W!MD
Lazarus and Jesus. For example-Jesus knew, before be went, at this time, to BeN:ba
where Lazarus lived, that Lazrzrus toa1 dead, (John 11-14). Now bo\9' did he (beinl•
appears by the conte"t, at a considerable distance off) know this fact, unless there had
previous understanding between them that Lazarus should die about that time? lh
heard (11-8) that he was sick, but there is no evidence that he had heard of his death.
the contrary, the discipleii were utterly ignorant of it {11-11, 12 and IS) until the ~
~
THE ALLEGED MIRACLES OF JESUS.
tion unexpectedly came from Jesus himself. How carne Jesus by this information without
the Jmowledge of his disciples? If a rrH:'ssenger had brought it, they must have lmown it too,
for some of them were undoubtedly all this time with him. We have no right to ~ay that he
obtained it supematurally, becnuse it is uot yet proved that he had any supematuml powet.
Yet he knows the fact, "'·hen they do not, and there is a way by which he may have o1,tninec.l
this knowledge. 'l'bat way is thi:;-Laznrus may have directed his sisters to send this mes-
sage to Jesus, that he was sick, and thiR may have heen agreed upon as the signal hy which
Jesus might ]mow that Lazat·us was about to die. If f'uch were not the purpo~e of this mes-
sage, why was it sent? We are told that .lesus loved Lazarus. But why theu did l1e not go
to him immediately on hearing that he was sicl{, instead of waiting, apparently without any
necessity, for two or three days? The t·eason is obvious-he wnited for him to die, and he
knew that he would die. But he.could not have lmown that he would die, unless it had been pre-
viously agreed that he should die. I repeat that it cannot be said that Jesus knew, by means
of his supet·naluralpow~'r, that lAtZa1·us would die; h~caul'ie that would be attemptiug to defend
the mira~le, on the evidence of his supematural power, instead of proving the s:upernatural
power by the miracle. Besides, 'if he coulrl know, by mP.a,ns of his supernatural power,
either that Lazarus was dead, or that he would <lie, he could also, in the same way, have
known that he wa~ sick, and it must therefore have been unnecessary to send the information
of his sickness to him. Is there then any way, other than by supposing collusion, in which
this matter can be explained?
Again. .Jesus declat·ed (11-4), when he first heard of the sickness of Lazarus, that one
object of this sickness was, "that the Son of God might be glorjfied thereby," (that is, that
he himself mi~ht get some credit by it). Now, how did he ]mow that it would terminate so
as that he should get credit by it? We cannot, J agajn repeat, say that he knew it by means
of his supeJ·natut·al power, hecause that would be assuming him to have supernatural power,
and then attempting to pL·ove the miracle by it; whereas the power must fi•·st he proved hy the
mit·acle. Besides, there are too many cases of his making inquil'ies for the sake of ascert~in­
ing what his inquiries imply that he did not know, to leave any apology for pretending that
he knew any thing supe•·natu1·ally. There is then 'but one answer to the question, how he
knew beforehand the manner in which this sickness would terminate? and that answer is, that
it had been agreed between him and Lazarus how it should terminate, .and Jesus inje1·red that
he should gain some credit by it.
Again. The•·e is something very suspicious in the manner, in which he communicated to
his disciples the fact, that Lazarus was dead. He communicates it to them as if it were some-
thing, which he was a ware would surprise them, hut which ntwertheless was not new to him.
The manner, in which he int'roduces the matter, is peculiarly suspicious; He lloes not at
once come to the point; but speaks allegodcally, says Lazarus is asleep, &c., an,l that he must
go and wal{e him. ·
Anothet· suspicious circumstance is, that Lazat·us was buried neithet· in a grave, nor a tomb,
but iu a cave. The man might live very well in a cave; he might himself have deposited
provisions there beforehand, and he might have told his sisters where anu how soon to bury
him, after be was dead. He seems also to have bad a very sbol't sickf}ess: his sisters send
word to Jesus that he is sick, and the next thing we know of him is, that in about two days,
(as it would appear from the story, although it is not explicitly stated), be is dead. He seems
too to have been burl'ied in a great hurry; for wh·en Jesus arrived, "he had Jain in the g1·a·ve
four days." -
Another ~uspicious cjt·cumstance is, that the stone, that Jay upon the cave, must be remov-
ed, (11-39), by hand too, before the supernatural powel' could operate so as to bring the dead
man out. A stone, laying over the mouth of a cave, must be a great obstacle in the way of a
miracle.
Another circumstance, of the same import, is, that when Jesus came to the work of raising
Lazarus, "be cried with a loud voice," to call him out. Now it might be necesro;ary to speak
1 loudly to make a living man, who was in a cave, hear; but a dead man could have heard a
less labored tone equally well.
Again. There was an altogethet· unusual ostentation about this miracle. Jesus tallted a
great deal about it beforehand; spoke of it as an affai1· that was to accomplish great things in
the way of glorifying God, and himself too. .
Another circumstance against the reality of this resurrection from the dead, is, that Jesus
never raised any others fi'Om the dead. (I here tnke it for granted that it has been shown that
there is no sort of reason for pretending that he raised the son of the wiclow of N ain, or the
daughte1· of Jairus). If he could really raise men from the dean, why did he not Bhow his
miraculous power again and again, in this way, so as to place it beyond dispute; instead of
curing sick folks, casting out devils, spitting in men's eyes, filling them with clay, touching
their tongues, putting his fingers in their ears, and such like disgusting farces, ten thouf-'and
of which would be no evidence of any thing except that he was an impostor or a fool? If he
could really t·aise men from the dead, he could have established himself at once on the ct·edit
of his miracles. And yet one solitary case, and that too sunounded by circumstances of the
strongest suspicion, is all the evidence he ever gave, in his whole career, of his power to raise
the dead.
56 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
Again. Jud(J'in(J' naturally of a portion of this story (11-45 and 46) we haYe abundant
evidence that~ p~rt of the eye-witnesses themselves detected .the hoax on th.e spot. The
story is that som~ of them believed, but that ot.hers went forthwith to th.e Phat:Jsees-known
enemies of Jesu,;,-and marle such representatiOns that measures were uumed1ately taken to
have him appl'ehended. How is this conduct of these witnesses to be accounted for, uuless
they di:scovered the cheat? . . .
It appears also (John 12-10), that the Ch1ef Pnests were satisfied-
. probably by the story
of the same witnesses-that Lazarus also was a lmave, for they are saJd to have consulted to
put him to Jeath-a thing, which they never could have dreameJ of doing for the cause which
John assigns. . .
The world has been ful1 of a11e(J'e<l m1racles, but I do not beheve another record of one can
be produced, containing such irre~istible evidence of fraud as this.,.
To nroceed with the examination of the remaining miracJes. T.here ar~ two cases, whm·e
Jesus rs said to have fed the multitude miraculously. One case IS mentiOned by 1\Iatthew
(14-15 to 21), Mark (6-41 to 44), Luke (9-12 to 17) and John (6-S ~o 14), where five
thousand (an undoubted exaggeration-anot~er "great tempest~') w~re sa1d to ~ave been fed
from five loaves and two fishes. The other Instance, where be Js sa1d to ha\'e fed four thou-
sand, is mentionecl only by Matthew (15-.S~ to 33) and.l\1ark, (S-1 to 9). All that is neces-
sary to reply to such accounts as these? JS, fir::;t, that neither of t~ose, who tell the story, says
that he himself was present, and even 1f any one of them had sa1d so, they have all been con-
victed of so much exa(J'(J'eration and mi:;repre:-<entation, that they 'vould not deserve to he cred-
ited so far as to have ~~11iracJe, or any other improbable story believed on their testimony-
and secondly, that if Jesus ever had any thing to do in distributing food to £,·e thousantJ men,
who believed in his miraculous power, there were then five thou~and probable cl]ances; and
if he ever had any thing to do in distributing food to four thousat~il of the s~me sort .of be-
lievers, there were then four thousand probable chances, that stones respectmg the cu·cum-
stance woulcl he told, and would get magnified into a miracle, although there were none, and
that these stories would be belie\•ed by all his followers-these narrators among the rest-who
should not absolutely know the contrary, and who were eager to believe every marvellous
story about him, of which there was to their minds a possibility of truth.
In the last of these two cases, a very good reason can be conjectured, why the fragments,
that remained, should be equal to the amount distributed. It appears (Mat. 15-32, 1\lark S-
2) that this company had been in " the wilderness" three days, and it is probable that the
loaves and fishes had been there the same length of time. 'l'he climate of Judea is warm.
Another case is that of the miraculous d1·aught of fishes. It is •·elated by Luke only (5-4
to 11). He says that fishes enough were caught in one net, at one d•·aught, to fiJ] two "ships"
so full that they began to sink. (Mr. Luke, that's a great story to tell). 1\!atthew (4-tS to
~~) and Mark (1-16, IS) both speak of the same occasion, and of some of the incidents re-
lated hy Luke, yet neither says any thing about any fishes being taken-the probability is,
therefore, that Luke was misinformed in t~is n~~pect. Besides, Luke snys (5-9 and 10) that
John was there, and that he "was astonzshed at the draught of the fishes which they had
taken"-yet, for some reason or another, John dirl not see fit to vouch for this miracle or
even to allude to it-perhaps he had a little more discretion than Luke. '
One miracle only rema_ins. '!his is r~Jated by Luke ou)y (~~-50 and 51). He says that
when a servant of the H1gh Pnest had h1s ear cut off, Jesus touched it and healed it. It is a
sufficient ~ns,.,.·er to this? to say that Luke was not there, and probably never heard even of
t~e ear ben~g ~ut off unt1l maf!y years afterwat·cl-that dUI·ing this time a story about so insig-
mfi;.an ~ an JUCJdent as the _cut~mg off o_f a man's ear, would very natu.rally gnin the appendage,
wh1cb 1s here attached to 1t, nz: that 1t was also healed. But there JS another answer which
even if it stood alone, would be sufficient. That is, that although 1\'latthew, 1\Iark a~rl Joht;
(two of '"'hom were of the twelve, and were probably at or near the spot at the time) relate
the fact of the ear being cut off, neithel· of them says a word about its bein,., healed.
Thus much for the t•eality of those miracles, that have imposed on a la~~'~'er proportion of
enli~htened men, in mode>·n times, than at the time when they were suppo~ed to have been
performed. If an hundL·edth part of the effort, which has been made to prove these events to
have been really supernatural, ~ad ?een directed (as on the plainest .Principles of reason it
should have been) to the account1ng, 1n a natu·ral manner, for the stones respectino- them the
difficulty would have long since vanished. ~ '
Hone...ty of intention may, nevertheless, in general, fairly be accorded to these writers in
circul~ting these stories about miracles, _for the truth of which they do not explicitly vouch as
eye-wttne;o;ses. Some of these transactwns were probably supposed by 1\Iatthew and John,
who \~ere of the twe~ve, to have occur~eu when they were absent; and they, having often
seen hlm, as they beheved, cast out dev1ls, and heal the sick, which, to their minds were ns
real miracles as the raisin~ of the dead, or the removal of a mountain would not i~ general
doubt in the least the truth of any stories that they might hear. Marl~ and Luke, not being
* 'Vhat evidence is there ef the deliberate viJJainy of :\fahomet, Matthias or Joe Smith that can com-
pare with this evidence of similar conduct on the part of Jesus ? '
Or what stronger evidence of his knavery can be wanted than his pretence of calming the tempest?
l'H£ ALLEGED MIRACLES OF JESUS. 37
of the twelve, but being, Luke certainly, nnd :Mark probably, subsequent converts, of course
clepended upon the stories of others for evet·y thing tltey relate. Luke, dcpcncling upon this
source of iuformation, has gone so far as to relate (Chap. 1), for realities, even the conve1·sa-
tions, that angels were said to have held witlJ per:wns 011 eunh fifty or sixty years before the
time when he wrote his narrative. Can any stronger evidence be dc:-;ircd to prove that many
of those convcl"sations and circum;:;.;tanceH, whidt these narrators recordell so many years after
the transactions, \Vere such as their own itHaginatiOHs, from having loug dwelt upon those oc-
eurrences, and the imaginations of others, alllong whom tbn stories had previously circulated,
fumished as appendages to the truth? Ot· cau any stronger proof he t•equired of the crctlu·
lity and superstition of these writers, or of their readiness to adopt any story, however illl-
probable in itself, that should be :floating jn that <:omumnity? a community, the very atmos-
phere of which, it would seem, must have heen saturated with reports of the trmrvcllous
works of the vuriou~ Christs or Messiahs, who each appea1· to have been attempting to prove
theit pretensions by the same l\ind of means. Yet it is almost entirely thi.-; l<iud of hearsay
testimony, such as would be scouted at in a Court of' justice, if offered for the purpose of
proving the most common ancl natural events, upon which meu believe in occurrences vastly
mot·e improbable than any that ever resulted from natural causes.
One at·gument, that is ti·equeutly alluded to in support of the reality of the miracles of Je-
sus, is perhaps worthy of a. notice here, in additiou to what has been sait.l. This argument
is, that even the opposers of Jesus acl<nowledged that he wrought true miracles. One nn-
swct· to thi8 argument js, that their admissionH are not at all binding upon us: and therefore
even if they did make them, we have an undouLted right to inquire whether they may not
have been mistal{eh. And if we make this inquiry, we shall unquestionably find that they
may have been, because among them a miracle was considered to be a very common occm·-
rence, anti capable of being wrought apparently by almost any one who was disposed to at-
tempt it. It 'vould be nothing strange therefore if some of the opposers of Jesus should ac-
lmowledge that he wrought tni~·ncles. He himself virtually acknowledges (Mat. ~4-~4) that
the false Christs.could wod{ miracles, and also that the man, who used hi!:i narne to cast out
devils (Mark 9-38, 39 ami 40), wrought real miracles.
Another answer is, that these admissions generally appear to have been made, if made at
all, not upon actual observation, but upon the t•epresentations of others. They also appear
not to have been hem·d, by these writers who relate them, but simply to have heen hea1·d oj;
or infe'rred, hy them; as they evidently must have been in the case of Lazarus (John 11-
47), because these disciples could not have been present at the consultations held on this sub-
ject by the Priests and other-leading men. What then would a million of such facts he worth
to prove miracles?
There are a few additional circumstances tending, so obviously, to confirm the views I have
taken of the miracles of Jesus, that they are not to be omitted.
Luke says (23-8 and 9) that when Jesus was brought befot·e Herod, Herod desi1·ed to see
him work some miracle, and asked him many questions; but that Jesus answered nothing.
It appears that Herod intended to deal uprightly with Jesus, and was also prepared to believe
the evidence of miracles. Why then did not Jesus, if he possessed miraculous power, tnl{e
advantage of such an opportunity, to do something before this assembly to prove that be was
what he had professed to he?
At a.nother time the Jews (John 2-lS to 21) asked him to show them some sign (mil·acle)
as an evidence of his right to attempt to drive them from the temple-and a very reasonable
request it was. But the only miracle, that he proposed to work, was to rebuild the temple in
three days, provided they would first destroy it. But they, like rational men, hat.l not suffi-
cient confidence in his power to rlo it, to induce them to demolish it, for the sake of giving
him an opportunity to try' the experiment.
John says that Jesus here referred to "the temple of his body." This is evjdently ano-
ther of John's equivocations, for if he did t·efer to his body, he was a cheat and an inten-
tional deceiver, since he must have lmown that he was, by his language, causing them all to
understand him as referring to the temple, in which they then were.
In the early part of his preaching, when he was at Nazareth, (Luke 4-16 to 30), h~ went
into the synagogue, and pretended that he was the one who had been prophesied of, but vir-
tually acknowledged that they had a right to expect thnt he would show them some miracle,
by which they might lmow that he was what he pretended to be-and the only reason he as-
signed for not performing one, was this potent one, viz: that a prophet would not he respected
in his own country. Those, who heard him, were so offended at what appeared to them
(reasonably too) an attempt to dupe them, that they thrust him out of the city, and led him
to the brow of a hill, as if they intended to cast him down headlong; uut when they had come
there, "he, passing through the midst of them, went his way"-which lan~uage, if we had
the tl'lle version of the affair, would probably read thus-" when they bad frightened him by
pretend!ng to be about to cast him headlong down the hill, they let him go."*
John, speaking of another occasion, says (1~-37) "though he had done so many miracles
*Luke say3 (2- 52) that as Jesus grew up to manhood, he "increased in £wor with God and man.1
Now this affair took place in "Nazareth, where he had been brought up," (Ltlke 4-16). He seems
therefore never to have got into very high "favor" with the people of his own village; for had he done
so, they would not have been likely, on this occasion, to have treated him quite so shabbily.
,
ss THE DEISl''S REPLY.
before them yet they believed not on him." It appears extremely prob~ble that God would
send a me~~~nger on eat·th, am.l, in order to p~ove him to the world to be hts messeng:er, sb~u1d
aive him miraculous power, and that then thts messenger should not be able to perform mtra-
~les of such a kind as would convince even eye-witnesses.. .
Jn 3110ther instance Matthew says (13-58) "and he dtd not m9:ny tJ?Ig~ty wor~s there be-
cause of their unbelief." Now if it.was the great pu•:r,ose of bts ~tsston to bnng. m~n to
believe on him when he found any mcredulous, that c11·cumstance, mstead of furmshmg a
1·eason why he ~hould not work mirac!es ~efore them! was only an additional r~ason why he
should not fail to work such as would tnevitably conVInce them.
:.Mark (6-5 and 6) speakina of the same occurrence, says, "and he could do there no
mighty ~vork, save th~t he laid his hanc~s upon a ~ew sick folk, a_nd healed t~em). an<! he mar-
velled because of their unbelief." Thts declaratton of Mark VIrtually demes hts rmraculous
power in toto, beca!-lse !f he poss~ssed it,, he could c~rtain1y, wherever he might he, have
found somethinO' bestde sJCk folks upon whtch to exert tt.
When the Phadsees wished to see some evidence of his being what he pretended to be,
(1\lark S-11 to 13), be appeared (to his disciples at least) deeply afflicted that men's hearts
should be so hard as not to believe without evidence, and said he. wouJ,l not show them any
sicrn but "left them and departed., .1\'Iark says the Pharisees asked him the queRtion
"te:npting him." But the question was certainly a proper one, and what evidence is there,
that their motives, in asking it, were not of the same character?
For some reason or another, Jesus was very suspicious of the enlightened part of the c~m
munity-a little more so: it seems to me, than a genuine Messiah would ha\'e any occasiOn
to be. He was continual1y apprehending some trap, or design against bjm. He was also
continually laboring to excite the prejudices of his diseiples against them--conduct not very
consistent with the idea that he was really a superior bejng.
Acrain. Jesus tolrl his disciples (1\-Iark 11-23), that if t.hey were to command a mountain
to m~ve, and should not doubt in thei1· hea,
rts that it 'Would rnove at their bidding, it actually
would move. Now why did not he himself remove a mountain, if it could be so easily done,
and thus present to all future generations a convincing and eternal monument of his Messiah-·
ship? One such miracle would be worth a miHion performerl upon persons that pretended to
be siek, or1>ossessed of devils. It would have been worth a million of those pretended mira-
cles, that, like all the other pretended miracles with which t}:te world has been filled, vanished
at the moments, and left no trace behind. But one answer reallily occurs to such a question,
viz: he cou),l not.
Some may say that it did not become him to perform miracles, that would not accomplish
any pbysieal good-hut if be were such a being as he pretended to be, and his doctrines were
true, it was of more importance to bring men to believe these facts, than it was to cure all the
sick people that ever lived. He ought therefore to have adapted his miracles to the accom-
plishment of the most important purpose he had in view.
. John says (6-30), that on a certain occasion, the people asked him directly, H What sign
.Sbewest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? \Vhat dost thou work'!" This was put-
t1ng the question home to him, and why did he not meet it, if he cou1d, as he evidently ought!
Could any request have been mo1·e reasonable, or more candid? Or could any combination
of circumstances whatever have called upon him more urgently to display his miraculous
power, if be had any, than did those in which he was then placed? It appears by the con-
text, that there was an assemblage of people present, who had taken much pains to find where
be was, antl to come to him, and their question implies a readiness to be convinced by mira-
cles. Yet all the satisfaction, which this man, who went about the country boasting what he
could do, gave to these honest, proper and candid demands, was to evade them, to stand on
his reserved rights 1ike one who had nothing else to stand upon) and then to run into a long
fanfa.ronade about his being the bt·ead that came down from heaven, about his being better
bread than the manna that was given to the Israelites, about the effect of eatinu his flesh, nnd
drinking his blooc!/ a.nd st~ch like stuff, disgusting enough to sicken any one ~xcept such as
have made up thetr mtnds, tn advance, to swallow, as a delicious morsel of divine truth, any
thing, and every thing, that may be found in the Bible, be it whatever it may.
. Jo~n .also (6-66), after having r-elated the above affair, adds, "From that time many of
b1s d~sctples went back," (as well they might) "and walked no more with him. 'fheu said
Je~us unto the tw~Jv~, ~il1 ye also go away?" The terms of his question to the twelve seem
to tmply that all h1s dtsc1ples, who were present, except the twelve, deserted him at this time.
But whether all deserted him, or not, there can be no reasonable doubt, juduina from John's
account, that a l~rge portion of them rlid. Now it appears, by the former pa~t of the chapter,
t~at but a short t1me be_fore, be h~u five thousand persons following him-and yet he now finds
b!rnse}f so .nearly destitute of frtends, that he is afraid that even his chosen few will desert
hmt a~s?. It has b~en said by the advocates of Christianity, that we ought not to consider
tb~ realtty of the mtracles o~ J.esus as resting solely on the testimony of the narrators, but as
bemg supported by the conv1ctwns of great numbers of eye-witnesses. How, let it be asked,
*A rite gros~er even than that ofdrinking from the skull bone ofOdin and more appropriate to be ob-
served by canmbals than civilized men. '
THE ALLEGED ~IIRACLES OF JESUS. S9
will those ndvocates pretend to meet the fact nbovc refcrrf'cl to? Here were "many" men,
who had followed Jc:sus so long, that John calls them "hil) discip)e:-;,"-men, who undoubt-
edly had seen as much evidence of his miraC'ulou:; power ns he was uul•! to exhibit-" ho ''ere
undoubtedly credulous enough to have been f!asily deceived hy pretcmlcd ruirades, nud "ho
yet de:;ert him, nud refuse to follow_ him any longer. 'l:be tcstiu~onr thc_ref~>re or "many" .of
his own folio" Prs, credulous and sunplc a~ they \\ere, 1nsteud of he1 ng 111 favor of the reabty
of his rnirucles, is directly ami po~itively ngniu~t tlwrn. The inquiry 111ay now safely be put,
whether Christians have it in thcu· power to put iilto theit• cu:;e, auy cviclcncc tlHtt cau control
this otherwise decisive testimony, wf1ich cowcs fro111 those who111 they had all aloug claimed
as thei•· own witnesses?
If any one wish now to determine whether a sufiicicnt answer have heen given to the alle-
ged miraeles of Jcsu~, he has but to look Lnck, and !:-iCC whether he can put his finger upon
any individual cnsc, and sny thut the evidcuec rclatiug so)(•ly to that ca~e is couclu~ivc that
thP.re must hnvc been a r11iracle. Unless it be conclusive of' that faet, it is uurea::,onulJlc nt all
to rerrard it; been use the probauility mu~t ulwuys he uguinst the llliruclc so long as there is a
disco~crnblc lad< OJ' uncertainty in the evidence.•
The snpernaturnl occurrence:;, that are said to have tal<en place at the ueath of Jesus, may
properly be ref"err<'d to in con11cxion with the miracles.
)latlhew (27-4.>), l\larl< ( 15-33) and Luke (23-4 t) $ay that while Jesus wns on the cross,
thPr& was, for rhree hours pre\•ious Jo his death, "dmkness over all the land" The testimony
of l\Iark and Luke to this matter is not wortiJ noticing, b<'causc there is no reason to suppose
that they ~tate any thing but a hearsay story. As n:spects .:\latth&w, he tans said <'nouglt to
prove, thut, 1f tlwre were any darkness at nll, the1 e was none that was so extraonlinary as it
must be supposed, from the fact of his mentioning it, that he intended to have people believe
it to be. In the first pluce, if it hnd been thu~ extraordinl!ry, the Jews must have been alarm-
ed, ancl have dE:-sisted front the execution; but the fact that they did not de~ist: although by so
doing, nt any time dhring- these three hours, they might have saved the life of Jesus, is suffi-
cient evidence that there was no such darkness. 1\latthew (27-36 to 49) says also what is
equivalent to saying, that those, wbo witnessed the crucifixion) felt a curiosity to see whether
any thing extraor<.liuary, or supernatural woulcl hapren, but saw nothing of the l<ind.-'• Sit-
tin~ duwn, they 'vatchetl him there." He then adds thnt some of them said, "'l'ltou that de-
stroyest th~ temple, and buildest it in three days, snvc thy6el f. If thou be the Son of God,
come down from the cross." 1'he "Chief Priests, Scribes and elders" also said H he saved
others, himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Jsro~l, let him now come down front the
eros~. and we will believe him. He trusted in God; let him deliver him now if he will have
him." And aeain, but just before his apparent death, when he had cried "Eli, El·i,'' &c., and
one had theu run tn put a sponge to his mouth, "the rest said, Let be, let us see whether F.lias
will come unu save hi:n.'' These things show that there was such a curio.sity felt as 1 have
mentioned, and that this curiosity continued until they supposed him dead. Now, is it to be be-
lieved that these men would have remainf!d there, on the lool<-out for marvel~, up to the 'very
moment of his last gasp, as they supposed, and would then have so coolly said "Let be, let us
see whc..:ther ~~lias wiil come and save him,'' when they had been \\."itnesse~, for three hours, of
a continued nne surprising "darkness over a11 the land," at mid-day? The thing is incredi-
ble-the falsehood is too bare to be disguised for a rnomE'Ut. John makes no mention of this
darlmess.
l\lntthew says also (27--50 to 53) that when Jesus died, "the earth (lid quake, and thE' rocks
rent, and the g-raves we•·e opened, and many bodies of the saints, whicJ1 slept, arose, and went
into the holy city, and appeared unto many.'' But he does not say that he saw these things.
Now is the word of this man 1\latthew-a man, nearly half of whose narrtttive nppears to have
been but the work of a "lerrible-acrident-mukrr"-to be taken for such facts as these? \Vho
but he had ever heard of tbe earth's qnaking, the rocks rending, graves opening, dead rising
&c.? No hu1no.n being on earth, that we have any evidence. Besides, even John. who say~
(19-25 to 27) that hP- stood by the cross, and that Jesus, while on the cross, spoke t~ him sav·s
not a word of any such events; yet there is not room for a reasonable doubt that he ;vouid
have done so~ ha'J the.v ever happened.
Besides, it is incredible that the Jews, who knew that Jesus preten(led to be the 1\1essial1 and
who were among the most superstitious people that ever lived, should not have beeu app~lled
by such a :scene, if any such had happened, and have been converted; yet thE'y were not con-
verted; nor did they, nlthough as I have said before, they were on the look-out tor marvels
see any thing to change their minds in relation to him. )
This story again shows the extent of the delusion among the followers of Je~us, and that
Matthew was ever ready to relate, for truth, not only every thing, however impossible, that he
heard spoken of, but probably also some things which he did not hear spoken of.
*If the reader wish any further confirmation that this view of the miracles of Jesus is correct Jet him
read the "Apocryphal Ne_w_Testamen_t," f~om wlticl? he will at least learn what kind of miracl~s it was
common for tl1e early Clmsuans ~o believe m, and wtll thus be enabled to judge whether such works, as
I have supposed the pretended muacles of Jesus to have been, would not han~ been likely at that time
and among so superstitious a people, to have passed for true miracles. ' 1
40 'IHE DEIST'S REPLY.
CHAPTER IV.
The Prophecies.
Of those predictions m the Old Testament, \Vhich ~re somet_imes regar_ded as prophecies,
only one, besirle such as are said to relate to Je_sus, wttl be particularly noticed _; ~nd_ that, not
because it has any resonabl~ claims to be constdered a prophecy, but because 1t ts frequently
mentioned as such. . . .. . . .
It ts said to refer to the present state of the Jews. It JS contawed, Lbeheve, prtnclpally, m
the 28th chapter of Deutel'onomy, and the 26th of Leviticus-and was ut~ered by Moses-how
many centuries before the time of Jesus, I leave to. others to calcul~t~. I ~1avc refered to these
chapters, and if the reader attaches a feather's wetght to the predtcttons Interspersed through
them, I ask him, before going farther, to turn to the chapters, and rea.u the w_hole of them. I
hardly believe there is, in the country, a man of common sense and comm.on mtelhgence, who
will read tbem, and will then look an unbeliever in thP. face, and say he beheve.s that l\loses had
any, the most distant, reference to the state of the Jews at this time, or that he intencle.cJ.the
most remote intimation that any of those punishments, which he threatened, woulcl be visited
upon the Jews on account of their rejection of any l\1essiah, or any being like a ~J essiah.
Moses was in the habit of pretending to have personal communications from Deity, in privatP.,
and to receive (~lahomet-like) from him those instructions, which, as the ~retcndec.l a~ent of
God, he imparted to- the ignorant, superstitious, simple and credulous Israelites.* In this w~y
be impo~ed upon, and preserved his influence over them. He was in the habit also of ~ronns­
ing to them e1ery variety of worldly prosperity, if they would obey the commands, ~vl11ch he,
as if in the name of God, enjoined upon them, and of threatening them apparentiy w1th all the
worldly evils that he could conceive of, in case of their disobedience.
In the context immediately preceding these chapters, he gives the Israelites various com-
mands as usual, anJ then follows them with such promises and threatenings as would naturally
appear to him necessary to insure obedience. Among a variety of other threatened calamities,
he enumerates dispersion by their enemies, and, on the other hand, among the promises, he
enumerates, in palpaLle, and almost literal, contrast to the threat, success in putting their ene-
mies to flight; but in all this he says no more about a l\lessiah than he does about Vulcan or
Neptune. And those predictions, which some would fain have understood as intended to refer
to the present condition of the Jews, are such us wollld not now be thought of by Christi;ms,
as having any reference to nny thing but the case then in hand, had not the advocates of Cbrit't-
ianity, in order to support the truth of the Bible, been driven to the necessity of grasping at
shadows instead of realities.
But there is one way, in which every man can settle all questions in relation to these predic
tions, viz: by answering to himself the question, whether, if the Jews had mur been rlisptrsed,
he would consider these predictions intendecl as prophecies, and as having sofailed, as that their
failure would be substantial evidence against the truth of the Bible? If such afailure would
not have been eviuence against the truth of the Btble, such a fulfilment, as is set up for them,
cannot be t>vidence in support of it.
The idea that God dispersed the whole nation of Jews, and that he continues them in that
dispersed state, simply because they were and are not convinced that Jesus was the Messiah,
or beca.use a few of their nation, many centuries ago, put him to death, is consistent with the
Old Testarnent doctrine that Cod punnishes the children for the iniquities of the parents. and
also with the New Testament doctrine that God will punish men for not believing what appears
to them improbable-but it is not consistent with the views that nnbiassed minds have of the
nature of ju!:ltice.
. 1\lany people t.hink t~e pre.sent temporal condition of the Jews is evidence that Gocl is ptm-
mg them for the1r obstmacv 1D not believinC' in Jesus. Now the condition of many millions of
Africans is far worse thari that of the Je;s; but can any one of those, who know so much
about ~ad's designs in bringing calamities upon particular nations: tell us what he is punishing
the A fncans for?
Do the ancient. and modern conditions of the Jews furnish any more evidence that they were
once God's favonte nation, (as the Bible pretends), or that they are now the objects of his clis-
* He pretended to them that the ~-\.lmi~hty wrote the ten commandments "'ltith his ou:n.finger," on the
t\~O tables of stone: and ga•e them to him- although he acknowled!;!es that he was abs~nt in the moun·
tam forty days-a time sufficient for ·him to have written them hini::.elf, and a little 1onger than would
probabh· h<H·e been necessary for the Almighty, (Deut. 9- 9 to 11).
. He.afso, wh~n tb~re were thunder and lightning and a cloud (and nothing more, as any body mav sat-
Isfy h1mse~f by readmg the Yerses hereafter referred to) on :\Iount Horeb, told the Israelites that the l..oRo
?cas spcakmg to them, out of th~ fire. He also stood between them and the mountain, and •pretended to
mterpret the thunder, and to gtve to t!Jern the meaning of the Lord in their own language, (Deut. 4-11
and 12-ali>o 5-41
5, 22 to 28).
TJIE PnOPHEClE:; .
)ike, than tlo til(' ancient and modern conditions of the Africans, of their ha.ving once stood,
and of their now stnn•ling, in the same relations to God?
Suppose the inha.uit.anrs of some petty pro\•incc in India. should pretcud tlHlt their nnce~tors
had once been the fa\oriles of Deity, could tlJey not, by referring to their history, and to th~
Shaster which they suppose Uod l1as given them, support their prclCnsions to Llwt dislinclioh
j~st as strongly as the lliule does those of the Jews!' Ar:t1 could not WL', in their prr~eut coll-
d•t:ou, filHI as mucll proof that Deity had becornc ollcnded with them, as we cun, in the present
condition of the Jews, that God is oirendcd with them?
L et us now look at those predictions, that nrc said to foretell a. 1\Iessiah, and t-J llave been
fulfilled by J esns. I know or three ouly that are \Vorthy or notice.
'l'he firsl commences at t.he thirteenth verse of the flfty-sccond chapter or Isaiah, a11d exteuds
through the sub:.;equent chapter.
It is o. suilicieut answer, for the present, to ll1is description of the "servant of l11c Lord,"
as he is called, to say, tlto.t it is f:o indefinite, that it would upply lo many otlters us well ns to
Jesus-and even if it tlelmeated the character nnd history of J esus a little more nearly than
those of any other persou, still it is entirely too indelinitc to furnish any tiling )ike reasonable
ground::; for believing lhat Isaiah foresaw eitllcr a .Mcssiall, his character or history. Almost
every paragruph, that applies with any ju~tness to Jesus, would also apply equally wrll to a
great number of those men wlto pretended to be propl1ets, nnd who were !tilled l>y the Jews.
I~ the l\~enty_-thir~ chapter of l\Intthew (:30th, ~L sl, and 3~1lh verses), Jesus accuses the
Jewish nation of hnv10g "persecuted, scourg<HI, hilled and crucified the prophets, tlJC wise
mcu nnd scribes, which had been sent unlo them." In the thirty-seventh \'crse he says, "0 !
Jerusalem, J erusalem, thou that killest Ihe prophets, and ~ton est them that are se nt Ulllo thee,"
&c. It appears from these declaration~. that if Isaiah intended by 1tis description of a "ser-
vant of the Lord," only a general description of the charn.cters and fateu of t1Jo3e, who, in dif-
ferent ages of the Jewish nation, professed to speak to the Jewa in the name of the Lord, ins
language would npply to the:-n, with the same propriety that it would to Jesus ; and it is far
more probable that he should have had those men in his mind than a l\lessiah, because he had
personal opportunity of observing their characters and fates. They were men, to whom the
Jews not only refused to listen, but \vhom also (as app~ars by the language of Jesus before
quoted) they lreated with tho greatest in<lignity, insult aud cruelty. They, far more than Jesus,
might be said to be "men of sorrows and u.cquninted with grief," for they conld ltave had but
few friends or followers. The.IJ "had no fo1·m, ur comeliness, or beauty, that caused thnm to be
desircd''-thcy were "brought us lambs to the s1aug·hter"-lhey JOUbt IJave been, by thos<> who
believed in them, "esteemed stricken, smitten of God, and a1I1icted"-they were "cut off out
of the lund uf the living"-lhey had "done no violence, nor was any deceit foun~ in tlteir
mouths." 'l'hey were probably inoffensive, deluded men, whose imaginations were filled with
extravagant notions about God's intercour~e with men, and his method of governing them; and,
owing to this cause, they were continua11y dreaming that God came to themselves, and com-
manded them to decla re to the Jews that this evil, and that evil, would come upon them, aud
that this and that great a.ntl important religious event was about to happen. But the Jews,
having no confidence in them: persecuted and destroyed them.
Isaiah speal<s of the Almighty making the soul of his "servant an offering for sin"-and
this language pcrhap~ may at first view appear to have more relation to Jesus than it could
have to a prophet. Dut, if-as all men of common sense, who disregard authority, belie\. e-
sacrifkes are of no avail, and the tioctrine that God requires them imputes to hil1l, not only
absurdity, but injustice also, and unnecessary and barbarous c•·uelty, theu this intimation, that
the soul of the "servant of the Lord" was to be lllade an offering for sin, is one, which Isa-
iah could not have been dictated by God to have uttered, and it could with truth apply neither
to JeBus, nor any one else.
But should it yet be contended that Jesus ~vas made an offering for sin, (a suppo!:!ition,
which certainly cannot be proved), it might then be replied that there can be little doubt that
Isaiah, who, of (!Ourse, believed in the utility of sacrifices, believed that every one of those,
who were slain for preaching (as he supposed) in the name of the Lol'd, were made offerings
for sin. It was perfectly natural that he should believe ~o. How otherwise would a man,
with his views about Gotl, about the moral couditiou of the .Jews, about the 11ecessity of sa-
orifices, and about the 1·eligious character of those tvho tve>·e slain, account for the fact that
Gocl permitted them to be slain, than uy supposing that they were made offerings for sin?
· If he considered them offerinas for sin, it was then perfectly natu ral for him to believe that
these sacrifices would redeem n~:tny, and that the individual~, supposed to be offered as sacri-
fices, woultl "see their seed," (for those redeemed by them coul~i ue called theh· seed, with
the same propriety th~t those redeemed ~y Jesus could ,be called hzs. see~)-th.at they .'' s.hould
see the travail of tlte~r souls and be sat1sfied\" &.c. So that consrdenng th1s descnpuon of
the "servant of the Lord," in whatever light we may, it will still apply to many of these
supposed prophets with nearly, if not entirely, the same force that it woulcl to J esus, eYen if
he were what Christians suppose him to have been.
There are strong reasons for believing that Isu.inh referred .to such,genually, as he esteem-
ed the servants and prophets of the Lord, but who were desp1sed and persecuted by the Jews.
6
42
THE DEIST'S REPLY.
:M -· h and if he himself were actually a prophet, why did he not (as well as
gh~ 1
1
1
)
1
e~~: :he \~~;d ~1essiah, instead of one so indefinite and general. in its application as
allle ? If he meant a 1\le,.siah why did he not tell us more about ham-when he wou]d
sf!rvan.t.0 _ ;> Above all why did he not describe him so that, when he should avpear, l~e
appeal' ~c.· ' · · · h d f II h ?
mi.,.ht he itlentifietl by the Jews, and d1stwgu.1s e rom a ot ers. .
B
'"' 1 d"d actually mean a Mes,tah-what then? The fact that Tsatah expected
ut suppose 1e 1 . ~ L d ld h· l\1 · h ·
8 Messiah, or that he dreamed 01• imagmed tha\~he . ~r tTo h t1.m a h ess•: . ':~s
1toJco~1eh
does not rove at all that there ever was to be a J.u.esst~•l. e act, t at t e \'\· o,e ew1s
nation efpected a Messiah, is no evi~ence that a Mess~ah was actually to come. rhe co?n-
bined facts, thnt a :Messiah was predteted, that a .Mes~aah wa~ generally expected by th~ m-
h t 't· t·~ f Judea that he was eX}Jected near a particular time, and that, about that ttme,
a .)J ~ln :s o . ' . h M . h d h t
one or seventy appeared, each pretendmg to be t e essta , o not prove,_ or ave uny ~or
of tendency to prove, that there ever was, or ever was. to be, any such bemg as_~ Mess1ah.
.ludaing 11aturaHy on all these facts, they are only evidence that some superstitious man,
wh o~e head was full of marvellous thoug~ts about what G:od \~ould do for those w~om the
individual supposed to be his favorite nation, dreamed, or 1magmed that God told hun, that
He would send a l\1essiah; that this individual proclaimed what he suppose~ God h~~ to~d
bim · that the nation who were always ready to expect some extraordmary mterposltJon m
thei:. bellaJf, were fa~orably struck ,_vith the idea of a Messiah; that tb_
e belief, that one would
come, became prevalent? and that, 1.n consequence of that genera_l behef, a great many, were
so infatuated as to imaame, or so <hshonest as to pretend, (knowwg the contrary), that they
themselves were the in°tlividua1s appointed by God to he :Messiahs, and did actually claim to
be such.. Tl}ere is nothing myste~·ious, or supe~t~utund, or improhaLle, in such a combinatiou
of facts! They all, in a commumty so superstatwus as that of Judea, would natU1·ally fo~low
the simple one, that some priest, or some one whom the people r~garded as a prophet, Ima-
gined that Goc} would ~end. a 1.\riessiab, or dreamed that_God told h11n be woulc.~ send one..
This ic}ea of a Messiah 1s one, that would be very hkely to occur to the mmd of a pnest,
or one who should believe himself a prophet, among a peop1e like the Jews, who believed in
sacrifices, believed themselves the special favorites of God, and believed also that God fre-
quently interposed miraculously fot· their welfare, This priest,. from the nature of his office
and employment, would naturally have his mind occupied with thoughts about God's inten-
tions respecting his favorite people, and his designs in relation to their religious welfare. It
would be nothing remarltable if sueh an individual, who should imagine that there was nne-
cessity for·some ne·w interposition of God in favor of his people, and should believe that God
frequently sent messengers to them, should hit upon the idea that God, in order to meet this
new and uncommon necessity, would send an extraordinary messenger to them, and, (since
this priest believed in the necessity of sacrifices), that he should also believe that this messen-
ger would he made a sacrifice for the sins of the nation. Nor would it be remarkable, if such
an idea, expressed by a priest, for whom the people had some veneration, or by a supposed
pr?phet, should strike the minds of so superstitious a people as the Jews so favorably, .and as
bemg so probable, that the belief should become prevalP-nt, that God had .supemnturally con-
veyefl this idea to the mind of the priest, or supposed prophet, and, of course~ that it would
be realized. lf.such were the fa~t, it ~vould then be very natural that, among a people where
many '~·ere.so mfatuated as to 11nagane themselves prophets, there should be many, who
should I~tagme themsel~es, or cl~im to ~e, :Messiahs-and if a supposed prophet had predict-
e? the tlme of ~he cormng of thts Messiah, that would he the time when these deluded or
d1shonet>t _l\fesswhs would appear, and proclaim their charactet·s, and set up their claims.
Supposmg such to hav~ been the cause of the appeanmce of all the pretended 1\:Tessiahs
that.appeared about the time of Jesus, and supposing him to have been one of these deluded
or dJs.hone_st men, the mystery of the fulfilment (such as it \'\'as) of the pre<liction is then a1l
explamed m.a natural nnd proha?le manner, wiLh the exception of Jesus's being put to death,
-a~fact, wluch can'?ot be explmued by the existence of any general belief that the 1\fessiah
wal'> to be cut ~ff-s1~ce Jesus was not crucified on account of any intention, on the part of
!hose who cructfied huu, to make good the prediction. Still, if it be said that his being slain
Js a proof of the proi?hesy, and of his being the .Messiah, then, the answer is, that others of
t~ese pretended ~ess1ahs were also slain-so that bv this means also it is im[Jossible to iden-
tify the real Mess1ah. "' .
V One ?f these pretended Messiahs was killed by order of Festus·~ another was burnt alive by
Mesp~sJan.t One Theudas got a sect after him (pt·obahly und~r the pretence of being the
1
~sstt~), and was th~n slain: also one Judas, (Acts 5-36 and S7). How many others were
jam h noBw not. It JS P1
'0hable however that a considerable number of them wet·e (See
Mep us, .oo!( 2d-Cbap. 13). ·
h
The pre(hctwn then, that the Messiah should be offered as a sacrifice for sin (if in rt-ality
t ere were any such prediction) wo ld d b 1 1 '
as well as t j ~
8
h h ' u ou .tess app y to some, and perhaps to many, others,
JJ 0
esu~. o t nt . e~·e too there JS a complete failure of identity.
ut I apprehend that Chrlstlans, who may read this book, will, before they bnve gone
*See Newton on the Prophecies Chap. 19.
t Same.. . ' · ·
THE PROP HECJES. 43
throu~h with it, find stm another difficulty in the wny of their mal<i n~ J esus amn"·cr the de
scriptiOn of theia· predicted 1\Icssinh. T hat llitJkulty will comd:st i11 their inability to prove
thttt J esus was cvct· slain at all. [ think they will fi11d that the cvidcuce, in:;;tead of proving '
that he was slain, comes much nearer pt·o,·iu:,r clircctly the rcver:-:c, viz: that lH· ,, a~ not ~lain .
If such s hould he the C<l~e, their 1\I~s:-:ia h will the11 1110~t S JH C' I,Y he "cut nfl'." Should the
fact of .his death he Jef~, hy the cvidenc~, in the least uncertainly, the JH'•:di (~tion , ns applica-
ble to hun, must L>e cons1dered to have faded; heca11:-:e pr,ophef'y, no 1110re t ll illl a11y othcn •uper-
natural event can be rcMouaiJly JH'Ovc•l hy doub!ful cvide1we. Doth the prediction nud the
fulfilment must be iuconte:.;tibly cstahlisl~ed , or 110 prophery i::; showu.
Another prediction, thnt wus to be uotiecd, is iu Daniel 9th ,-~5 anrl ~6.• It is berc stated
that the .Messia h shall appear in :-ixty-uiue weeks " frn111 the goinJ! forth of the commanll-
ment to •·e~tore ami build J crusalern," wlrich a ppears, from the ...outext, to hn\'e Lecu about
the time of the prediction. Cotrnnentntors hnvc said that a week here means !:iCYf' rJ ~·car::-.
"\:VJ~ether they ha\·e sufficient authority for snying :o:o, I neither )wow nor c
:nre. Still, if' by
callmg it seven yea1
·s, instead of .sewm cia)·~, the })J'ediction cuu Lc made to look any mol'e
nea1'1y like a prophecy, why, then call it seven yean:. The time for the appeari ng of the
~es~ia h would then be fixed at the period of f.n1r hundred and eighty-three yea rs from the
tJme of the p1·ccfiction. Did J esus appear p1·ecisely at that tirnn? T he little sea1
·ch I have
made does not enable me to settle that fLUestion, or to say ce1·tainly "vhctlw r auy one else e ver
diu. I nan only say that I have never ]mown it to be e,·en hinted that he did. H e undoubt-
edly appeared about that ti111e, as did n g1
·cat number of others ; a nd the rca~on why a11ap-
peared near thnt time, undoubtecily was, that thnt wns the time when a Messinh was expected.
In the twe nty-sixth verse it is said that " after three score and t wo weel,s, l\1essiah shall
be cut off." Calling the week seven yea1·s, in this case as in the othet·, the true Messiah ought
then to have Ji,·ecl four hunched and thirty-four years ; (He was to have been n marv~11ous
personage in point of age ns well as in othet· re;;:pccts)-but Jesus lived to he only about
thirty-two or thirty-three years old-leaving the slight deficiency of four hundred years.
Thct·e is no way, that I have di:;cQvcred, by which the believer can get rid of this dilemma.
If the week mean but seven days, Jesus did not, in the fitst place, appear at the proper time
for the true Messiah, and he also lived too long; hut if "\Ve call the week seven years, then he
did not live loo,g enough.
But this prediction fails in another particular. Daniel calls "the Messiah, the P1·ince."
He then says, after having previously spol\en of "the commandment to restore a nd huiM J e-
l'Usalem," that " the street shall be built again, and the ,,:all even in troublous tl mes." lt is
e vident from this language and the context, that Messiah \Vas to be a tempo'ral prince, and it
is probable that he was to restore and build Jerusalem.
Daniel says also, tl,lat "after tha·ee score and two weel\s, Me~siah shall be cnt off_, and the
people of the p1·ince that shall come, shall destroy the City and the sanctuary," &c. It is evi-
dent from this language also, that Messiah \Vas understood to be a temr)Qral prince, and Lhut
he was to be succeeded hy a foreign prince and an enemy. .
Passages also in the Ne\1\-' Testament, applied to .Jesus by his biographers, show that a tern
poral prince bud been expecte(]. Matthew (2-6) represents one of the old supposed pro-
phets as saying that "out of Bethlehem should come a GovERNoR, that should rule God's
people Israel." Luke also (1-69, 71) puts into the mouth of Zecharias a prediction, that
the nation was to he saved by the Messiah '' from their enemies, and from the hand of all
them that bated them." Such things could be spoken only of a temporal ruler or deliverer.
There can be no doubt, indeed all Christians admit, tliat the Jews expected a temporal
J>rince, (although perhaps one, who was also to be made a spiritual sacrifice, after having lib-
erated the nation from all its temporal dangers and calamities), ancl the language of Daniel,
above quoted, most dearly authorized that expe~tatiou. To say that it did not, is to say no
less than that since that time words have chan,ged their meaning. If then such were the true
meaning of the prerliction, Jesus certainly fulfilled it not in the least tittle, and of course was
not the Messiah. But if such were not its meaning, the least that can then be snid of the
prediction, is, that it was made in such deceitful language as to cheat the Jews, and prevent
theit· identifying the tme .1\1essiah, whenever he might appeal'.
Unless the p1·erliction described the Messiah so accurately that he could be unequivocalJy
identified, certainly it was no prophecy. Such was the case here. The very people, to whom
it was pt·edicted that he should be sent, and whom he was to redeem aniJ reign O"\'er, did not
identify him in the person of Jesus. He did not in any important pat·ticular, or at least ir1
any greater degree than many others, answer the description; and therefore, even if he were
tbe true Messiah, the Jews did rightly in rejecting him, because it ·was their duty to be gov-
erned by the description.
Fu1·thermore, it is evident, from various circumstances, that Jesus himself or1gina1ly under-
stood the p•·erliction as did the Jews, and that he did, at one time, expect to have become a
temporal prince.
*Connected with this prediction about a Messiah is one circumstance, that sho·ws that Daniel knew
nothing of what he was talldng about; and that is, that when predicting that Jerusalem should sometime
be destroyed, he says "the end thereof shaH be with a flood"-whereas (unluckily for in~puation) such
happened not to be the fact.
•
44 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
.....
The particulars of his journey fi·om the mount pf Olives to Jerusalem, recorded by 1\Iat-
thew -(~1-1 to 11), l\Iark (11), Luke (~9-28 to ~4) and John (12-12 to 15), show that he
at that time expected to have been received, as Kmg of the Jews. :Matthew says "a very
great multitude" attended him; that they spread even their gannents in the way; that they
cut down branches of tr.ees and strewed them in the \\·ay, anti. that they cried, "Hosanna to
the Son of DAVID. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." Mark says they
cried "Blessed be the KINGDOM of our father DAviD, that cometh in the name of the Lord."
Luke says they cried "Blessed be the KING that cometh in the name of the Lord." John
says that 'lnttch people, that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to
Jerusalem, took brunches of pabn-h·ees, and went fo'rth to meet hi'11't, and cried "Hosanna,
blessed is the KING of IsRAEL, that cometh in the name of the Lorrl." Is there bere room
for the s1i~Yhtest reasonable doubt that this multitude believed him to be a temporal prince,
specially s~nt by Gorl to rule ~>Yer the ~ewish .nation? There. certainly can b~ n.one, justified
and authorized as such a behef was, 111 relat10n to the .Messtah, hy the pred1ct10ns of those
whom the Jews supposed to be prophets. The queotion then arises, how came this multi-
tude, at this time, to believe him to be their temporal king? "Vhy, in this way only, viz: he
himself must bave directly or indirectly given to their minds the impression that he was to I.Je,
or it could not bare become so general nmong them-and if he diu either create. or sanction
that impression, he must himself have expected to be a temporal prince, or he intentionally
deceived this multitude. By barely consenting to be attended by this great body of men, by
these shouts, ancl these hosannas, and by approaching Je1·usalem in this triumphal and ldngly
manner, he proves that he either expected to have been made n king, or that he practised a
deception on the people-for, be it 1·emembered, he coulrl uot have been ignorant that these
demonstrations of loyalty were offered to him, hy his attendants, solely because they thought
he was about to become thejr king. .John has removed all doubt that they \'\'ere so offered.
He says (IS2-16) that even "Jesus's rlisciples understood not these things at the first," that
is, :u the time, and on the spot, they did not understand that he was to be a spiritual ldng-
and if they did not, there is but one answer to the question, what did they understand him to
be? But John adds, in substance, that "when Jesus was glorified,'' they then saw what
their conduct had meant, and bow they had in reality been paying their homage to n spiritual
prince under the mistaken apprehension that he was to be an earthly one. The amount of
this riciiculous equivocation is, that Jesus tool\ to himself, at this time, the Hosannas which
he must have known were intended for another, and trusted to the future, when he should be
"glorilicd," to set the matter right-or, in other words, that, for the time being, he practised
a little pious deception, for the glory of God, an!l the good of that 8piritualldngdom, which
he wns lalwrin!! to estaLlish.
If Christians would save the character of Jesus for honesty nnd plain dealing, they must
disclaim for him this miserable trick tbat John attributes to him, and must ac)mowledge that
he intended to have become a ldng. All the accou ots of this transaction go to show that such
was the fact, that be expected to have been received as l\ing at that time; that he rode that
ass's colt solely because he knew that·" it l1ad been written, Behold thy KING cometh, sitting
on an ass's colt," and that he supposed the Jews would therefore consider his being mounted
on an ass good evidence of his right to be their king.
It is manife:;t also that he was disappointed iu the reception he met with as he approached
Jerusalem. Luke says (19-89) the Pharisees told him to rebulte his followers. This inci-
dent shows that the Pharisees would not aclmowled6e him as king. From this occurrence,
and from what foJJows, it seems hardly possible to doubt, that Jesus then saw that he cou]rl
not be king. He then, as he naturally V\'dul<l if such were the case, (I here, on account ofits
importance, repeat substantially what I have said in a former chapter), "falls into a lamen-
tation for the fate of the City-not for the souls of the Jews, as he would hnve been Jikely to
do, if he had intended to be only a spiritual reueemer, but for the fate of the City itself. He
virtually says (Luke 19-42 to 44) that if the Jews had but receiverl.him as king, theit· City
would have been preserved; but since they had rejected him, the City woulu be destroyed.
He says that "enemies shall compass it around, shall cast a trench about it, and keep it in on
every side, and lay it even with the ground," &c. This is not the Janguage of a purely spir-
itual deliverer-it is precisely su'eh language as we migl\t reasonably expect to hear from a
man, who wished to make himself the ruler of a people, but who, on being rejected as such,
should endeavour to alarm thei1· fears for the s_afcty of their City. Or it is such language as
we might reasonably expect to hear from a man so deluded·as to imagine that God had spe-
cia1ly appointed him to be the deliverer of a people, and the preserver of a City. Such an
one, on finding that he would not be accepted as king, would naturally infer, that inasmuch
ac:; the deliverer, whom God had appointed to save the city, had been rejected, the city would
of course he destroyed."
In these facts too is to be found the secret of th-e prediction, that he made soon after, (Mat.
23-37 to 89, and c. 24-.l\Iarlt 13-Luke 21), respecting the destruction of Jerusalem, and
which has beeu regarded as wonderful evidence of his power of propltecy. How wondea·ful
the evidence is, here clearly appears. The fact, that Jerusalem was afterwards destroyed,
has nothing to do with tbe prediction; because we can see the grounds, and probably the only
grounds, on which hej01·med his opinion that it \Yould be destroyed-ground$ sufficient to lead
I
TUE PROPHECIES. 45
!Uch a mnn, as I have supposed ltim to be, to helicvc that it woulu l.Je uestroyetJ, or to predict
that it woulu, whethe1· he thought so or nut-ami \VC nrc not to suppose hiru possessed of the
powc•r of prophecy, when hi~ l:mguag-e ca11 be liCCOIJIIICU fot• without ~uch H suppo:-ition.
llut to return to tlte iuf}ttit·y-did Je::ms C\'Cl' atte111pt to lllakc hinasclf king of tire .Jews?
Another ituportaut item of lC:,tinwny to prove this fact, is, that it wa~ very ~0011 aft<:>t' tid~ tri-
umphal ride from the .l\lount of Oli,e:;, to Jerusaleru, that he wa~ apprehcuded uud crucifi-
ed, aud the universal charge against him then wus, that he !tau set him::;elf up to be King of
the Jews.
A~ the 1·emaining- evidence of his design to nHtl\e him~clf king of the Jews, has prollal.JJy
beeu suflicieutly set fonh in the former chapter oil the uuturo uml character of Jesus, it need
not here be repeated.
Perhaps some per~ons may think it rn.thc1· cxtnlOnlinnry that a man like Jesus shouhl have
conceiveu such a do:-;igu as that of 111aking hirnscl {' a kiug. J3ut if such pcr:-;ons look nt Jose-
phus (Book 2d-C hap. 13, &c. &c.) and at N ewto11 011 the Prol>hecies, Chap. 19,-thcy will
nud that, nhout the time or Jesus, characters vory ntUch like li111, were no great novelties
among the Jews.
If tiJCsc view::; are correct, Jesus did not, although he ]uborctl to uo so, nus\ver the predic-
tion concern iug a Mc:;siah, viz: thnt be was to he a tc111poral king-but W<'h sirup]y n dclucle(l
or di:shon~st HHlll, like nmny others, who set up ~iluiltu· pretcn~ious, and all his talk about be-
iug "~ent of God," &c., was but the in~ane gibberi~h of a ueluued fanatic, or the knavi::;h
pretences of an iwpostor.
Dut supposing the predicted l\1essiah to have been intended only as a spiritual prince-even
then Jesus docs not answer the clescription. This 1\lessiah was to be "the glory of God's
people Israel." lie was "to save God's people from lhcir sins." By "God's people," as then
.understood hy the authors of the llible, were meant the Jews. J esuB also himself \'irtually
predicted that he should redeem the Jews, for he appointed his disciples in number correspond-
ing with the number of the original tribes of Jews: and he also promised to these twch e dis-
ciples that they should sit (Christians must say, in heaven, although he at tht' time probably
meant on earth) on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. He, by these acts,
and by l1is whole con,luct, showed that he expected to have redeemed the Jews. But none of
these predictions or expectations have been fulfilled. Some Christinna believe that the Jews
will sometime be converted to Christianity-but where is the foundation for such a belief? .Te-
sus can never answer the description given of the i\lcssia.h any better than he did while on
earth~ and therefore there is no reason why the J e\\'S should ever believe him to ha\'e been the
Messiah. l~ven if we suppose that the Jews, at the time when Jesus was alive, were n1istnken
ns to his clanracter, still, if eighteen centuries do not afford a sufficient time for them to dis-
cover their rnista ke, how long a time will probably be necessary?
.Gut, further, if a Messiah \\'Cre necessary to redeem the Jews, was it not just as importnnt
to redeem those Jews who have Jied during the last eighteen centuries, as to redeem any that
may live hcrcaftea·?
Since the time of Jesus about sixty generations of Jcw5 have died, ttifhout being 'redeemed
as believers must say; and y~~ these same belie,·ers virtually say, that if the Jews should here:
after be convcrtccl to Christianity, Jesus will then fairly answer the description of that l\1essiah
who was to be the Saviour of the Jewish nation. Every generation i:5 a nation of itself, an<l
if 1\Iessiah was not to save either of the first sixty nations of Jews that should succeed him the
prophet ought to have been more explicit in designating what nation of Jews he would sav'e.
To say that Jesus would have saved the Jews, if they would but have received him, is no an-
swer to the objection. If a man predict that a certain event will come to pass, he virtually
predicts that every necessary intermediate event will also happen. And if a supposed prophet
predicted that a l\1 essiah should redeem the Jews, such a prediction was equivalent to one that
they would believe on him-and if they did not believe on him-no matter for what reason-
the prediction then failed as essentially as if no pretcu<lcd Messiah had ever offered to save
them.
Jesus, then, did not come in the same character (of a temporal prince) that it was predicted
Messiah would come in ;-nor has he been received by that nation, who, it was predicted would
receive the 1\Jessiah. \Ve therefore have no authority, on the ground of prophecy, for beJiey.
ing that he was the expected Messiah; on the contrary, we hav~ much express authority for
beliedug that he was no .Messiah at all.
Tile remaining prediction relating to a Messiah, which was to be noticed, is, that he was to
be of the family of Jesse, and a Son of D.avid. .l\Iatthew (1) and Luke (3) have attempted to
show lhat Jesus was a descendant of Dand-and how have they attempted to show .it? \Vhy,
solely by pretending to trace the genealogy of Joseph, who, as they both agree, was nol hisfa-
ther, but simply became the husband of his mother a short time before the birth of Jesus.
They might therefore with the same propriety have traced their own genea]ogie>s, in order to
prove that Jesus was a descendant of David, us tho.t of Joseph.
This blunder, it would seem, besides proving that there is not the slightest crround for the
pretence that Jesus was a descendant of David, must also be considered as havii~g a slio-ht ten-
dency to show how much those two stupid blockheads lmew. c
46 THE DEIST's REPLY.
1'lte~e chronicler~, who, with a!\ good fidelity, oid so much for Dosterity, have a]so shown, in
alltmpli11g to trace: lite ge1!1'alog,IJ of Joseph, an accuracy, afaitliful1less, and a ltnow]edge of the
importnnce of being exact in nil mutters of revelation, correspondiug- to tne character of their
iutciiPcts. Lnke tllal\es there to havl! been forty genP.rations between JosP.ph and David, wh1le
l\lattltew connects the two l>y n chain of less than thirty, and running through nn almost total-
ly d~Ucrc11t list of names. Eren if Joseph had b~en the acknowledged father of Jesus, a disa-
greement of this kind would prove that there was no more reason for pretending that Jcsns wns
n dt'~Cendant of David, thau fi.ll· pretending that he was a descendant of any other Jew, who
mi11ht be na111etl at ruudom from among tho5e who liv<:d in the times of David.
The ne~e:ssary fal::;ehood of one or the other, and the probable falsehood of both, of these
prt'tcntled genealogies, would tend to discredit any but an inspired book.
Let us now examine Jesus's own predictions, and see how he sustained the character of a
prophet.
His only important p1·cdictions, that I have discovered, are included in the twenty-fourth
chapter of .Matthew, nnd in the last three verses of the preceding chopter. l\Iark also in his
tl.irtecnth, and Lulte in his twenty-first chapter, have recorded a part of the same predictions,
although not so fully as Matthew.
The only one of his predictions, which has been fulfilled, anrl which is definite and impor-
tant enough · to have any claims to be noticed, js that which foretels the destruction of the
temple. .
It is cvid·ent from the whole of Matthew's record of the prediction, (beginning at the 37th
verse of tire 2:3d chapter), that Jesus did not intend to convey the idea that the temple was rle-
voted to-any particular destruction, distinct from that which was to hefal the City at large. He
merely spea ks of the destruction of the temple, because they happened to be standing by it,
and spc:1k1ng o( it-but he only conveys the idea that it vv·ould be involved in the general ruin.
I atlempted, 011 a former page, to account for this prediction, in this way, viz: Jesus had read
in the Old Testament, that l\lessiah was to be a temporal prince, who was to be raised up spe-
cially by God for the purpose of saving the Jewish nation, perhaps from their sin~, but especial-
ly from their enemies, and he inferred, as he reasonably might from these premises, that some
great temporal danger threatened the nation, and that an extraordinary deliverer was necessary
to save them from this danger. He believed himself to be, or dishonestly wished to make
others belie\·e him to be, this J\lessialr, this appointed deliverer and king. \Vhen then he found
himself rejected by this nation, whom he supposed, or dishonestly pretended, that he was to have
Slred, he inferred as a matter of course, or threatened as a matter of policy, that the calamity
would come upon them. He would also, in such a case, naturn1ly infer, if honest, or threaten,
if dishonest, that this calamity should come soon, and therefore he nmtured to predict that it
would come in the course of one generation.
The last three verses of the twenty-third chapter of l\Iatthew tend strongly to confirm this
view. The language of J esus, as there recorded, evidently means th1s. "'0! J ernsalem, I
would have protected th}' children as. a hen protects her chich:cns under her wiugs, but they
u:ottld not st~ffb·me to do it-now thet·efore their house (homes, or possibly tem;:>le)shall becon1e
cJesolute, for I say unto you they shall not see their deliverer, until they will rec~ive the one
that was sent to them by the Lord (to wit: myself!'). .
If such be a correct view of h1s thoughts, and a fair interpretation of his language, the ques-
tion is at an end, for here we see snfficient causes to induce a man like him to make such a pre-
diction-and we are not to suppose him a prophet, if we can account· for his language .in any
other way, because it is unphilosophical to attribute, to supernatural causes, things that might
have been natura11y produced.
But beside the reasonableness, and the manifest pr0bability of the above ~upposition, there
are one or two other circumstances, that corroborate its truth. One is, that but a short time
before this prediction was made, (as appears by the order in which the two events are recorded
both hy .Matthew, l\Jark and Lul<e), and imme.dialely aJ1e1· his triumphal ride from the mount of
Olives to Jerusalem, and his (unquestionable) rejection as king by the Pharisees and principal
men of the Jews, be, apparently in the midst of the disappointment or chagrin occasioned by
that rejection, uttered a prediction or threat almost precisely similar to the one we have now
been considcrin~, (Lulte 19-39 to 44).
Another circumstance tending most satisfactorily to confirm the above view of this matter,
is that he could notjix the time u:hcn the temple should be destroyed. He only ventured to say
thu.t it would be in the course of that generation, but expressly told his disciples (Marlt 13-32)
that he did nol know either tho day 01· the hour when the event would happen.
If he had the power of foreseeing future events, why could he not have known the time of
the occurrence: as well as the occurreuce itselt? ·
l.~et us now look at some of his predictions, tl1at were not fulfilled.
He predicted (1\lat. 24-3, &c.) that "the end of the world" should come in the eomse of
thnt generation. But here we nrc met by the reply, that he did not mean that the er:d of the
world itself would come, or, in other words, that he said what he did not menn, (a practice, to
which, according to modern Christinns, he was very much addicted). But if he did not mean
what he said, what did he mean? u I don't know," says the Christian, "but 1 think he must
THE PROPHECIES. 47
have meant this, or if he did not, perhaps he meant that-but I am sure he could not have meant
the end of the world, because if he had, the end of the world would have surely come." This
logic is so satisfactory, that I might perhaps despair of convinciug a believer on this point, were
there no external evidence tending to prove that Jesus, in this particular case, meant .:1s he said..
It therefilre very fortunately happens that such evidence is to be found. For exn mple,-he had
told his disciples the. same thing before. In .Matthew 16--28, he holds to them this solernn and
unequivoeal language, "verily, 1 say unto you, there be some standing here, whicl1 shall not
taste of death, till they see the Son of !Han coming in his l\ingdom.
\Ve have 'al~o further evidence that the twelve understood him to mean t.he end of the wor1d1
and what t!tey understood him to mean, Christians cannot deny to be his true meaning. Peter
declaros (Acts 2-16 and 17) on the day of Pentecost, that the conduct, which the apostles had
there exhibited, was that, which it had been predicted by Joel, should happen "in the last
days.'' Peter also, in his first epistle 4-7, says, "the end of all things is at hand." Paul
also (1 Thess. 4-15 to 17) speaks of Christ's coming as an event, that was to take place dur~
ing the lifetime of some of those whom he was addt0ssing. John also (Rev. 1), spealc~ of it as
nn event near at hand.
Jes\ls also said that the time of the destruction of the temple should be the time of his com·
ing, (Mnt. 24-3, &c). It is manifest from this circumstance too that he supposed the end of
the world, and the destruction of the temple would happen at one and the same time, for he
would not, of course, have fixed the time of his coming before the. end of the world.
It was natural also that he should suppose the end of the world and the destruction of the
temple and city of J ernsalem would happen at the same time, because both the temple and the
city were esteen1ed sacred, and as under the special protection of God, and it was therefore
natural for those, who believed thus, to suppose that God would not permit them to be destroy-
ed befure the rest of the world. ·
And here too we find another false prediction, viz: in relation to the time of his coming.
He has here left no doubt of his meaning, for he particularly described the manne1· of his com-
:~g-and· this manner is just such as we might reasonably suppose a deluded man would picture
in his imagination, ot· an impostor conjure up to impose upon the misetable dupes who were hif1
followers. He said (Mat~ 24-30 and 31) that "all the tribes of the earth should see him,
earning in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory." And, said he, "he shall send his
angels with a great sound of a trmnpet, and they shall gather together his e1ect from the four
winds, from one end of heaven to the other." ·
That hi::t disciples undetatood this predictic;m as one that was to be fulfilled literally, is suffi-
ciently proved by Paul's declaration before referred to, (1 Thess. 4-15 to 17), where he says
explicitly that " the Lord himself shall descend from heaven 'With a shottt, with the voice of the
Archangel, and with the trump ~f God) and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we, which
are alive, and remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to rneel the Lord, in
the ai1·."
His predicting also that he should "gather his elect" at the time of the' destruction of the
temple, shows that he intended to say that the end of the world would then come. _
But he has
never thus come to gather his elect, and this is the third false prediction. .
There is still a fourth. He said ~Mat. 24-14) that before these occurrences should happen,
"this go:;pel of the kingdom should be preached in all nations, and to this declaration, as well
as to the others, he adds this sweeping clause, that ''this generation shall not pass till all these
things be fulfilled." None pretend that in the course of that generation his gospel was preach-
ed in al~ nations. The most that is pretended, is, t,hat some one or other of his apostles
preached in all the principal nations with which they were acquainted. But the prediction was
that it should be preached in all nations, and if it were not so preached, the prediction failed,
let the cause of the system's not being preached, be what it may. Jesus himself was probably
as ignorant of what nations there were in the world as his apostles, for he gave them no direc-
tions unless this general one, to preach every where. ·
But not only the letter of this prediction failed, but the spirit of it also failed even in relation
to those countries that were known and visited hy the apostles. 'J'he. great mass of men in
those countries, during· that generation, had no proper opportunity to hear the doctrines ef' the
apostles, to learn the chatacter of their system, and to judge of its truth. A great pertion
probably, !3o general was the ignorance that prevailed, did not) for the first forty years after the
death of Jesus, know any thing of consequence respecting him. The apostles just set foot, as
it were, in v~u·ious countries, but the mere setting foot in a country did not spread a general
and full knowleuge of Christianity throughout that country-yet it ought so to have done in
order to fulfil the spirit of this prediction. Jesus undoubtedly meant, that within the period ·
mentioned, his religion should bs made so universally known, that all, who would, mig-ht have an
opportunity to E>mbrace it, and be saved. .
Here then are four several predictions, viz : that the end of the world would come-that he
himself would come v·isibly in the clouds of heaven-that his angels should gather his elect
from the four winds,-and, that his gospel should be preached in all the nations Qf the earth, b
the course of the then present generation-all of which predictions proved false nearly eigh·
teen centuries ago. ;.__ .... ~·
48 THE DEIST'S REPLY.
There is no room for any quibble on his language, or for pretending that these pretliHionJ
were carelessly or thoughtlessly made. After having described the events in plnin a.n<l unnm-
hiauous terms, he adds (l\Jat. 24-3-!) "verily, I .say unto you, this genernlion shall no\ pass,
tili all these things be fulfilled.'' He gof\s still farther; and follows even this declaration with
one of the most solemn asseverations that man could utt~r. Says he (.\Iat. 2-t-35) "Heaven
and earth shall pa.ss away, but my word shall not pass away."
This <.lishonest or infatuated man was predicting events, of the occurrence of which he knew
nothing, for time has proved that those various predictions, and that solemn asseveration were
falsehootls..
These predictions of Jesus, in relation to his gospel's being preached throu~hout the world,
his coming, his gathering, his elecr, &c., ha\'e thus far been considered ns lla,·ing reference to
events of a teligious character, and as such have been sho,vn to be false. But there is another
and more probable interpretation to be given to them, and that is, that they refer to a scco,ld at-
tempt, which he then had in contemplation, to make himself king of the Jen-s.
There are many circumstances tending strongly to confirm this view. One is, thnt this pre-
diction, that he should come again, was made very Eoon after ht} had once nttemptetl to get hiJ":l·
self accepted as king of the Jews, and had failed. It is natural that he should hnvc it in Ius
mind to make another effort, if he saw any possibility of bi:J doing it with bettl•r prospects of
success. And as he was looking forward to a time whPn the nation would be in danger from
their enemies, it. is natural that he should suppose that such a season of peril a.ud cnlnmity
n·ould be a favorable one for the triumph of his sc!Jeme.
A great part or his account (Mat. 2-t) of the ~cenes thut were to precede hi:-< coming-, ind icnte
that he expected only a tempotary calamity to the JetL·ish nation, and that the declaration ascrib-
ed to him, that the "end of the world" was then to come. must be a misrepre~entatton.
His prediction that he should come "in the clouds of hcnn.·n, with power ami great glory,"
(if indeed he made such an one-which Deists are not at all bound to bdlie\'e), is not inconsis-
tent with the supposition that he intended to come as a temporal deliverer; fur such a pretcn-
~ion was hardly more extravngant than ou~ht to have ueen cxpectC'd from ~ucb a mnn ; nor wns
It too extravagant to gain credit among his dis<'iples; nnd it \\'OS indispensably llCC.l'&$1lty that
he should hold out a tJery extravngaflt expectation of some sort in order lo k,.ep up the delu~ion
and faith of his ignorant followers until his :lTri\·aJ. lle~iucs, he ~nid thal hts comp(>tiLors
(whom he called •• false Christs!') "should show g-reat signs and wonders," nnd it wus neces-
sary that he ~hould reprc!:>ent that the pageantry of his coming would be st1ll more marrf'llous
than that of tlteil's, otherwise he could not have suslaincd his own reputation, in the eyes of lais
disciples. for being tbe true l\lC'ssiah. lie must also promise somethiuu corrc~poudin~: with the
dig1.1ity of a Messiah, elso his disciples would nqt hn\'c cared to wnit f~r him, when they f:houlcl
be m the way of having- so many opportunities nnd inducements, ns he e:<p<'cted they "auld
have, to join ~he ranlts of other pretended ;\IC'ssinhs. F1nally, n man, who, hl<c Jcsusr, could
have the ha.r~thood to assert, without c.,·cr putftng nny thmg of thnt kiud to the te~t of' cxperi·
ment, that he could rebuild the tPmple of Jerusalem in tiJree days, (Jol1n 2-Hn or tltnt if he
were but to call upon J.is father, the AJmill'hty, he should immediately receive from l11m moro
than l~celve legions of angels to protect hi;person, Plu~. 2cj-5:J), or tltnt ht~ fulluwcr.s, it" they
had fauh, could remove mountains, anJ cast them into the sen, (.:\lnrl< 1J-2!1), would not be
v~ry likely,, particulnrly when, as in this case, his circumstances required n lnr~e stCJry of some
lund, to sttcl~ at telling the foolish dupes, that followed him, and were rcndy to swttllow nny
thmg from !us lip~, that he should sometime mnl>e n second appearance among tl1etu, nml should
then ~!orne 111 the clouds of heaven, &c.-especially if he could tell them, os J1e did in this in-
stance, tl1at ~t might be many years befme the thiug would happen.
Another c1rcu mstance worth.Y of especial notice, is, tllnt (.\J at. 23-37 to 30) n short time be-
fore his prediction in relation to a second comina, afterhavina decbrcd how\\ illmgly he would
have protected the people of Jerusalem, nn<l h;w they would not permit lairn to do it; he pro-
ceeded to say that calamity should come upon th£>m, and that" tiiCy shouiJ notste J.im tJuncrforlh,
until they should say blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." \Vhot iq the me~tn­
ing of such language as this, unless it be that he h:td rcsoh·cd to abstnl hims(lj. until tlan nat10n
should find _itself so involved in danger that they would recci\e taim glad(tJ n~ their dtltvcrer?
Here then 1s an express mtimation that he expected, at a future time, to come and be rtuit·td
as the temporal rleliverer of the nation Now when wa!=l tlais second coming as a tcmponJ dP.-
1iverer to be, unless it were at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, ag spoken of in the
very next chapter, when he should come with power and great glory?
He tells his disciples alao (l\lr..t. 24-14) that before the time of his next co1nin~, '"this gos-
pel of the kingdom, shall be preached in all the world, for a witncs3 unto u.ll nations.:' It wns
expected by the Jews that under the reign of their Messiah. their nation would ncquire ~reat
temporal splendor, and areat importance and hi<Th rank among tbP nations of the earth. anti
that peoplt:!_from all nn.tions would fhck togethe; at Jerusalem. \Vhat then did Jesus menn,
when he sattl that "this gospel of the kingdom. should be preached in all dlC world fi1r a. wat·
ness unto all nations," before the time of his corniua? Did he not mean that hi:S project of m1
earlhl.IJ king~om, or the good news ofthe earthly kingdom, which he designed to establish should
be so procla1med abroad, that all, who should desire it, mizht, at the time of his coming to toke
THE PROPHECIES. 49
tho throne, assemble and becorue subjects of his government? 'rhe terms used indicate most
strjldngly that such was his meaning. He does not say merely his gospel, nor does he say l1is
spiritual gospel, nor his system of religion, n~r the gospel of a future world; but he says ''this
gospel of the kingdom." Besides, we ought to suppose that when be spoke of the kino-dom, he
alluded to some particular kingdom, with the idea of which his disciples were familiar-and
yet, with the idea of what kingdom were they then familiar, except the kin!!rlom of their ex-
pected .Messiah, which, as they all understood, was to be an earthly one? They had, at that
time, as Christians themselves admit, never dreamed of his kingdom being an heavenly one.
He said also (l\lat. 21-31) that his angelsr.' "should gather together his elect from the four
winds, from one end of heaven to the other." Now who were these "elect," that w·ere to
be "gathered togethe1·," from the four winds? vVhy, it is clear that they were living men,
and that they were to be gathered together at some place on tlte em·thj for after describin,r
the tribulation that should come upon Jerusalem as being so great, that unless the duration ;f
it should ue shortened, no "flesh should be saved," he adds (22d verse) that "for the elect's
sake those days shall be,shortened"-that is, this time of co.latuity shall be shortened that the
elect may uot die in consequence of it. If therefore the "elect" were to be exposed to the
distress atten<ling the destruction of Jerusalem, aud the time of that distress was to Le short-
ened that they might be saved from death, and if they were to he thus saved, they of course
were li\·ing men. It is perfectly absurd to speak of any others, than men lidng on the earth,
being sa,·ed from death at the sacking of a city. Now, these "elect," \Yho \Yere to be saYed
at the dc~truction of Jerusalem, ''"ere undoubtedly a pm·t of those "elect," who \Yere to be
"gathered together" immediately afterwards, at the time of his coming; and those, that were
to be gathered from other nations, or" from the four \\inds," were doubtless of the sarue kind
of " elect," that is, living men.
Con:sidering it settled, therefore, that these elect \Vere living men, and that they were to be
gathered together on the em·th, wh~t c~mld be the object of Jesus in thus gathering them to-
gether, unle::;s it were to compose his kmgdom? He, of ccurse, would not \Yi.sh to curry these
living men'~ bodie5 to heaven, and if he wished to carry their souls there, it probably would
not be absolutely necessary to "gather them together" for that purpose- much less to gather
their living bodies together, as it appears that he intended to do.
That the Jews expected that, under the reign of their .1\Ies:;iah, people would be gathered
from all nations to compose his kingdom, th~ following pas::;agcs, ;:;elected from the many of
similar import in the Old Testament, are abundant evidence.
huiah 27-13. And it shall come to pas8 in that day, that the great trnn1pet shall be blo\\n,
and they shall come, v..·hicb were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and the outca~t in
the land of }1~gypt, anti shall worship the Lord in the holy mount at Jerusalem.
Genesis 49-10. The sceptre shall not depart fi·om Judah, nor a lawgiver from between
his feet, until Shiloh (l\Iessiah) come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people he.
Isaiah ~-2. And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's
house shall 1.>~ estal>lisbed in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills;
and all nations shall flow unto it.
15niah 11-10. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, 'vhich shall stand for o.n en-
sign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek.
Isaiah 11-1:2. And He (the Lord) shall set up an ensign far the nations, and shall assem-
ble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of J udall from the four corners
of the earth.
haiah 55-4 and 5. Behold I have given him for a "·itness to the people, a leader and
com.mander to the people. Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and na-
tion::; that khew not thee shall run unto thee.
Is. 60-10, 11 and 12. And the sons of stt·angers shall build up thy walls, and their kings
shall minister unto thee.
Therefore thy gates shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor 11ight; that
men may bring unto thee the forces of the Gentiles, and that their kings may be brought.
Fo•· the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall ue
utterly wasted.
If these passages were designed as predictions that Jet:usalem 'vas to be built up, as a tem-
po,·al kingdom, under the reign of the 1\Iessiah, by accessions from foreign nations, ''"e haYe
~here additional eYidence that Jesus, when he predicted that l1is angels should gather his elect
from the four winds, had in his mind the building up of a temporalldngdom; because he eYi-
dently had always intenderl. to be guided by, and had always pretended to be destined to fulfil,
the predictions which had been made concerning a 1\Iessiah.
Another most important fact, and one which appears to me decisiYe e'"ideuce that Jesus, at
his seconn coming, designed but to t·enew his attempts to make himself king of the Jews, is,
that he expected to have competito1·s, (.l\lat. ~..1-23 to 28). It is admitted and asserted by
Christians, and proved by history, that these pretended :Messiahs, \vhom Jesus called "false
Cltrists," were men who attempted to obtain the temporal goYernment of the Jews. Yet
+ Such angels probably as lie referred to when he said he could call upon his father, and he would gi'le
him more than twelve legions of angels to protect him, (:\lat. 26-53).
7
50 THE DEIST's RLPLT.
these ate the men, against whose pretensio~s Jesus found it nece~snry ~.in tl!c ~trongl'st man-
ner, to warn his disciples, lest they, mistnkmg one of these ~or hunhelr, .or tur lhe lt'ue ~lcs­
siah shouJrl espouse the cause of a wrong one. The quesuon here nrt:Oes, '' hr>thrr n u nn,
who' is undisguisedly engaged in endenv.oring to ac.,ui•·e trwporul power, so ncady .rc:cmLic~
a genuine Son of God and spiritual 5Ln'tour, thnt men, who.~hould <_:m_co IJn,·e lw~n. 111tt~uawly
acquainted with the latter, woulcl not afterw~nls be niJI~, w1d!out tltthculry, to dt:-tlllgUJ::-l! be-
tween him and the former? A further question nl.so anse~, nz: n·hethel' men 111ust not hn\ e
the same object in pursuit, in order to be such ri,•als to ~nc~ other? . . .
Look now, but for a moment, at the rnon.;;trous nbsunltty 111\'ol\'ed tn the mtcrpret~tJOn, that
must he O'iven to this affait· hv Christian:::;. Tuey must ntlmit thnt Jesu~, nt the' cry ttutc ''hen
he made~hese predictions in·relation to his secotHl comiu!!, mu~t ha\'e furc::-ecu Iais ~,.urijir.ion,
reswTection and ascension; anti that he must nlso ha\'e known thnt the!'e c\'cnt:, "'ould open
to the understantlings of his disciples (\vbat until then they nre said ne\·er tq 1Jn,·c understood)
the spiritual natut·c of his kingdom; He mu:st .hnve kuown thnt ns ~o~n ~:-; tlt~:sc e\ cuts ~huultl
have happened, all their former n11sapprchPn~mns n:s to the nature ot Ins n·r;_!n woult_l JJH.mc-
diately vanish; that all, that they had betore mi:;utulerstood, wouiJ then l)('Ciltuc to thctr 111111ds
pm·fectly clear· nnc.l certain; that they ,,·oulcl theu know, \\ ith 1he u!nst nlt~olu_te kuu\\ l•·cl,:-c,
that he nevl'!r had desi"'ned to be, ;md nP-ver woultl he, nn cartldv dclJ\'cl'Cr or kml!; thnt )tes-
siah was never to hnv~ hPPn an earthly monarch; but that "e ,~·ns the gcnuiue Mc...,::.inh,. nnd
that hi:3 Jdngdom was solely spiritual, and hen purely u~nrnl clc·li\·rrPr, rcdccuJer (ll' :-n\ wur.
Christians must say also that at this tinte, (thnt is, nt the time uf ntnl•ing tlrc~e prc<IJcliuu:-),
Jesus also knew thnt in a few yenrs these vel'y di::-ociplcs would hnn•, iu n 11wu~urc, t•..tn\,Ji..h-
ed ll reli~rion, bearinu his name. And yet these s:unc Chl'istiuus llltl~t 1-':-ty rurthN, I h:tl oltlwugh
.he forcs~w all these~hings, he yet wns uouLiccl "ith tcur·s lc:-t thc:-c clisciplc.-, uflcr thc.·y ~houlll
have come to all this light, after they sl1ouh.l Le po...sc~:occt ot' nll this ~l·rtniu ktU•\\ lcd,:r- n-. lo
his character and the nature of his kiugtlum, and cvcu ut'ter" tlu•y ~huulcl ha\ c \\ iuu.•......rd hi:t
resurrection from tbe dend, and his u~ceu~iuu iuto lacu\'eJJ, nJII) :-ltOuld lul\ c lnlmn.·tl yt•urt; fur
the estnltJishruent of his religion, might yet fo•·get nil tl1c~c thiug-s, nwl he• rlc•,·ci\ l'cl by ~IJIJJO
one of those vngnllond leaders (fur !'UdJ, or lillie hett£"r thau ::;u,·IJ, these ful:~e Chri...t:l "err),
of insua·gent hands of Jews, into the hclicf thut ~uch lcnclcr, nnd 1wl ..Jt•,u:;, WRk tht• Chrr~t;
that th~y might !Jc so hoaxed ns to e~pou:,c the cnu:;e of :::;OIIIC uuc \\ lm E-IJottlcJ Le Rltf'IIIJltiu~
to beco111e a tdmpo1'al king; mi~ht be r•hcntcd irtto the dclu:,iou thnt bUClt nu elite wo~ tht· real
JHc:s~iah instend of hiw:;elf; uu<.l mi;;ht Lc clupcd iutu the cOil\ irtiuu thnt MUll(' ufH·. \\ ho
should he notoriously nilllin~ nt au cnrthly tltrouc, wn!i the "~··ur of Gull," \\ ho ''n"' dc~tin­
eu to fulfil all that was expcctc1l to ltc clnne by their $piritrurl So, iour, )lc~siuh, Hetlccmcr,
&c., in relation to the spil'ituaL redemption ot' the hutJU\11 mce.
\Vhcn before was such n bundle of Hh:-;urditics e\'cr <dli:rt·cl to the cretinlit\' of Jn('l\?
But i~ we suppose that Jc.sus de~ig-ucd Olll_r to nL:-cut hiru:-clf fur u "hih·,·(ns hr huimntPcl
that he mteudcd to do, when he "aid (;\Jut. ~8-37 10 Sil) thnt the people (Jf Jc•rusn)(•Jit ~lruuld
n?_t sec him ngnin until .they :'·o~ld be glnd to rccei.\·e ),i111), u~cl tht•JJ ~o co1~1c nFn!u ntHI rr·r. cw
ht~ attempt to mnlte l111uselt klllg of tho Jr\\s, lu:-4 comluf·t l11 wur11111~ lul'\ cla!oriJ1lt·!4 RJ!Illll'•t
bemg. enttccd, in th~ !ueuu rime, into the truiu of the otht•!' prP.lt·utlcd kin~,., j,.; 1111 Jte•rf•·ctly
explarned; hecnusc It Is perfeetly unturul, thnt under fo'UCJJ ctn·urn!'tnut·P~, lw sltt~ultllul' c fear"
that befo1·e his return, hi!i followt·rs rui~dlt l'U"Jiect, £"ithcr (hot he woultl 11ot rc•turn nt oil, or
that be was not the genuine 1\le!<i~inh, nnd 111i~du therefore nLaudou thdr hope:; of l11JJJ, umJ lJc
f\~f~Unded to nttacb themselves to son1c of IIi~ rh·uls.
-
CHAPTER \'.
The Resurrtclion.
\Vc C!ome now to the question of the resurrection of .Jesus-th~ ln~t or those oUcgcJ eu-
pernaturol events, the truth of which it is necc!'snry to iuf(uire into.
1\~o solutions of this occu~rencc mny he gin~n, either of whic-h, 1 opprcltr-ntl, "ill l•e n.
sufficient rr11swer to all the cndcnce tcndinJ!: to pro\'C n rent return from death to lifc.
The first, and perhaps most probnLic f!olution i1', that the person f:CCII L) the di!!!Cii'lcH was
really ~esus, but thnt he htHI 11ever Lecn nctuntly dtond.
The rns.tances have bPen numerous, where crirniunll'l, who hnl'e !!ULrnittcu to ullthe fonu~
of cxecutJOn,,nnd hnve been suppo~ed to hnve dit·d n!' renll) n!i uny othcrfl, l1n\·e uf\(~r\\orfll
bee.n found nll~·e. The snsc8 nre nlso, ns it \\ er~·, of dnily ocruri f'fl('(', \\ h~rP .buldi~r~ WOUJH)-
ed Jn battle, 01: person~ :"•cl< of ~omc common Ul!'!en~t>, ltu,·e nl'pnrently thcd, nruJ l1n\ e oftcr-
w~~ds r~turned to..full !•fe. Now what tloP.~ the cirrurnstnn~c of tl1('ir J.cing t},us nften' oreI"
nh.le, provel '\) hy, Jt pro,·es thnt the nppnrPnt denLh wns only n temporRry t-u~pcu...iou of
~nunnt10n, nn~ thnt they hn\·e ne,·er IJeen really dend. It pro\·c~ tho~c fnct~ po~iti,·cly, ontl
It proves notlnng more. Now will nny man say thnt, in &he Cntie of JctSu~, n bUpcrnntural
THE RESURRECTION. 51
event is proved by evidence, which, in other cases, proves only a natural one? Or that, in
his case, we are to presume an event to have been supernatural, when there have been mil-
lions of natut·al ones precisely like it? If not, then he must admit, that the re-appearance of
Jesus, is, of itself, positive proof that he had never been dead.
But perhaps it will be said thnt the prediction of Jesus before hiR crucifixion, that, in three
clays after that e''ent, he should rise from the dead, and the fact that, in three days he was
found alive, furnish too extraordinary a coincidence to be attributed to any natural cause.
One answe1· to this objection is, that there is no impossibility of such an eveDt's taking p1ace
natw·ally, and that any thing, which is naturally possible, is in the highest degree probable,
in comparison with an event, that is natw·ally impossible. Another answer is, that he did
not ri.se in just three days, as he ought to have done to have properly fulfilled such a predic-
tion. He die(l (or was supposed to die) about three o'clock in the afternoon of Friday, and
be left the tomb at least as soon as sornetime in the course of Saturday night; whereas he
ought to have remained in it until the middle of the afternoon of the next lVIonday, in order
to mnl\e the coincidence as remarkable as believers 'vould have it understood to be. The
probability is, that the time, during which he was in the tomb, instead of being three days,
was e\·en less than half that time. Still another answer to this objection is, that it is not p1·o-
bable that Jesus eve'r p1·edicted that he should rise from-the dead at all. His alleged predic-
tions of thi!5 ldnd all appear to ha\'e been made in such manner, as that none of his disciples
so unde)·stood them,, at the time. 'Vhen the news first came to tbem that be was alive, it oc-
casioned the greatest surpdse among them. They considered the reports as but "idle tales,"
(l\Iark 16-10 to 13. Luke 24-11), "and they believefl them not." They appear to have
been wholly unprepared for such an occurrence. John also acknowledges (20-9) that pre-
vious to the resurrection, they had not known "the scripture th.at he must rise from the dead."
BtJt when they find that he is really ali\'e, they brnsh up their memories, and reeal some
things, which he had said, and which they now construe to have meant that he should rise
again, although they had gathered no sud1 idea from them at the time they were uttered. Is
it not sufficiently manifest, from these facts, that all his alleged predictions in relation to his
resurrection, either were never made at all, ot· were made in some such language as that in
relation to hi::; rebuilding the temple? a prediction, which John, after the t·e-appearance of
,Te.:m~, sagaciously construed to have referred to "the temple of his body,'' instead of the
temple in which they stood when the words were spoken, (John 2-19 to 21).
But it may l1e askeu, if he did not mean to predict his death and resurrection, what did he
mean, wben he said, at the supper, the cvet.ling before he was tal\en, (.John 13-SS), "yet a
little while 1 am with you. Ye shaH seek me, ami whither I go, ye cannot come?" and again
(John 14-23) when he said "I go away aml come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye
would rejoice, because ( ~aid, I go unto lhe father?" auti agnin (John 16-16) ,.,.. hen he said
"a Iittle while and ye shall not see me: and agniu a little while, atHl ye £hall see me, because
I go to the I•'ather?" It may be usked, Tsay, what he meant by these remarks, if he diu not
mean tlmt he was going to die, and ri;:;e again? AllCl it so happens that I have but this Jloor
answer to give, viz: that if he did not mean that he was going to die and ri::;e again, he prob-
ab1y mcnut something a little more nearly like ·what he ~aid: and that is, that he was ~oing
to he off for n while and then return again. Nothing would be more natural under the cir-
CIIIll:'tances in which he was then placed-he had found thnt he was in imminent peril of his
life-hi~ enemies were on the watch for him-Judas ha<1 already Jpft the room to go and dis-
clo~e to the Chief Prie:-::ts (as Jesus ~uppo~ed) where he was; nnd he saw tbnt it woule.l not do
for him to l'emnin there longer. He thcrd'ore determined to abscond, as he had f:ometirnes
done l>efore, and return agaiu to his tli:-;ciple;; when the danger was ove1·. But aa he probably
considered it unfavorahle to secrecy to have a dozen rnen accompany him, he mnst gi,·e his
di;:;ciples some reason why it was neces:gnry for him to go alone-he thel'cfore very judicious-
ly told them "he was g-oiug- to the Father."
Now, if Je~us wi:-:hed to h1n·e us believe that he intended~ at thi~ time, to predict that lae
was n.hout to die nud ri.-;e u~aill on earth, why did he not predict it plainly? 'Vhy (licl he not
do it in lan~uage that hi:; disci pies would have so understood at the time? 'Yhy did he leave
this prediction to be tortured, conjured or "glorified," nfter the eYcnts .should ha\'e lwppen-
cd, out of some l·cmnd\::;;, which, whc11 uttet·ed, the di..;ciple.;; nnden;tood, and ought to have
un1lnr.
.::tood, ai) ha \'ing reference to something cl:5e? "Undoubtedly for some 1.v1:se 1·eason,"
will be the ueJievet'':-\ wi:-;c an::;wer.
I have thought of hut one othPr ohjection that can be made to the !';t1pposition that .Jesus had
never· been dead. That objection rest:'5 upon the facts, that., after his re-appennwce, he still
claimed to be the .Mes:-;iah. And it may, perhap:;:, he said, that if he had never been dead, he
wa~ dishonest in continuing to make these pretensions. One an:-iwer to this objection is, that
1t i:; a supposable case, ancl mu<'h evi1lence has nlt·e:dy been exhihited tendin!-r to show, that
he was n tli..,lwnest man; an1l a :o-ecorHl answer i!'>, thnt if he ha<l alway~ been honest in ima-
giuin~ himself to he what he pretended to be, hi:; return to life would naturally appear as
wonderful and mil·aculous to himself, as to his flisciple~, ancl would tend to confit·m, rather
than weaken, the t]Aiu~ion whrch had previously occupied his mintl.
But there is no luck of evidence tending to prove that Jesus did not die, at the time of his
crucifixion. Circumstances enough ure related, to render it in a high degree probable thut,
52 TllE DEI~T'S J~F.PLY.
whcu he wa::; tal\cu down fro111 the cro...s, an intelligent pt rson trou/ci1w1 c ro1 lwrt JU.j po• d
hiJn dead. .
1 1 'J" · 1·
In the fir.--t place, it doc;; not nppenr tlwt he rcccl\·ed nn) _anu~ttl . \\ oun• .. hu l lll ""
hn11d:-i and feet, of cour:-:,e, \\·ere Hot; n1111 a-s rl'-..JH't"t.. tlw unc 111 l11-. ~Jtt,·, "P I..1H1\\ llut th t 11
was a dauzerou:-; one. It is c·enuin that hi-; app~trl:'llt Jcnth \\us c·uu,t•cl ..nlc·l.' f,~ hio~ 1r tr ,.,, d
torture ou the cro:-:5, lwcau~C! it took pla•·c IJd~•rc hi.. .:-ide" ns picrt'cd. It,.... J.,,, c·t rt 1111 l t,
if he diNl at all, he did not die !'O ~oou a.., the J,~ ..t·uulcr::-. -:ollppu-.<·•1, ltcC'nu...c• tl11 ~ th• H!!l1t l c
"·a5 dead hefure hi;; :-ide wa-; pi...rc·cd; l1ut \\ lu•u thnt cnml' to be Jli •r,•td. hi"' blood '' "' ..11 J
in cireulation. (.J~,hn IH-.iJ a~~el J 1). ~'H' t!Ji.. ~~~'J~~'l!"".i"t! ou the cro..~ !11'1 r11 to J,p l'rL·
cisely that kinrl of to1·turc, tlwt would naturally ("til"'' fulllflll r, n -.11:-prn..lt 11 nt' •• iu tiu 11
and npparent death, IJef~Jre real tleatl1. .\u.J it i- furth r e,1.tc·nt thnt J ",.. " lui.. 11 d.""
verv :;non nftr.r the lir:-t :-woouin~, or illllicntil)n ••f dl·nth, f11r ~~ rk .. ·'"' t I , l tf I ''I • n
Jo:-.eph of .\rimathea WPilt to Pilate to !!Cl ,, n•ai..;..iuu lrl lJ~t· the bnd.\ 1ntu l11 l" • , "I'• tu
marvdlnl if he were alrcatl\' ciNtd:' but l11·iu" tolcl l1\' the cuuuriuu th ll IH' \\ n c1 I. lao
thereupon (l'a,·e .JI):-'f'Jih peru;i...-ion lo tnkc the Locly, \\(.·,·hIll'" nultlm Juul•lt II) d • i 1 11 nll-
atr•ly. No~,- the f:t~;t, Llwt \\ hl'u Ju...•·ph cnuH' In hi111, Pilnte Ill n cllc·tl th tl .It ",. II I n
died :'O :-ooon, i;-; .!oiutlit·iPilt c\·i.!PIH't.• tllnt laP had J,ut ju-t thf'll t!i' <'II ~i..!ll"' nl' tl tla. 'lll'rt' 111
therefoi'P bf! 110 rca:-onnhlc duu ht thnt he \\a.: wk•• 1 ''"\' n 'Qn ..,. Ill uftt r tl fr l ..,, •
that ,,·a..; eau:-;ed by lti,; ..U...Jil'll'·i,u 1111 th1; en .....:. \\' uul I nuy i;Jlf•llil!"l t 111 til 1 11\\ • \... lJI-
!J()se thnt n pt!r.-\on, in tl11 .. :-ituutilln, nucl nl till.; ti uf', \\a.; clr•o.J ltt) •••• l rc ''"' t r~ )
Let now thr~ f4,JI,)\\ in:! fach J,,: c·on.:itlc•rc·cl. J...t, thut Pilnt(' 11111n c•ll( I nt h nriu tl t .Jr. u
had died sc> soou; ·.!cl, that '' lu.
.11 lu "a.. !--IIJII"'..''" t ' l1t! d1•nd, tllu-.t. "l111 \\1 r .-r 1 cl \\ llh
hi111, were ~till nli,·c:, (John 1!1-.J.! nud JJ)i .~tl, tlwt in nrd•·r I•• iJJ .. 1rP tlu •I tla ••ftlll \\ lm
WCI'C r·•·urifi<'d, it wa- Cthtumnry (nucl the n·ftll·e l'rultnltl~ t·ua .. j,J •n·d 1 u•t .. I) lu I r L. tl • 1r
Jc~~, nud that hi..: It•;!.. were uol t.ruht·u; ltll1 th tt hf' \\ ""' und , ll•t 1ll) t " 1 tin 1 ' r) una
after the; tit·:-ot :-i!!IIS uf dt uth; ~~th, tlmt lu• prul1 hi) rtl"t>i\ 1clu.. ,! r •rc rot " l I · utul f rh,
tiHlt hf' \\'a.; uut ·lc•atl at Lh£' tillll' hi~ .,jeJ•• \\ "' l'i' rn·rl, ( ll't j... pro\ I,,I) tl t' j rt ul r t '"
lJiood), tdthtm~ll ll11~ IH'oplt· l~:ul l'rf'\ JoiJ-.1) c•••u...ulc rr tl l11111 elc• 1 I; lc lull rJ 4 I 1
err~d, l :-·cy, a111l it apprnr:; to 111•· tlltt tl1•' ,., i·h·uc • i ul.a u.t 1 1 tu .. t1 1:\ , I
rcu:-<tHlahlc: 111a11 nf till' Jll'ulml•ility til t .I ..u, \\ ''lint 1 1111 lllltt' dr d; tl \ 1
such a coudiliou, r...: lu: \\"JJttld lui\,. lw• u Ilk' I~ t' rc • '' cr r"•·•,lll, \\ ltllttut ) 11 t I
J:nt lie waR Jtntlefl WltiH 1t 'lrtdi ·1 I fll 1 of r <'O\ n. TJ I tt •. c
w o1111t f ir1 t hr:! s icII', w uuItl 11'1 t 11r ull\· 1cntl t o r• \ 1\ 11 n. Joh 1 \ t I 1 l
lmtly\\"Hhti•liullllOJ•'nlun1
l. •yJ phuf \r ntt"lllll '\a· l
but ltllflll clot laP..:, nn I t I'll, \\ 1tlr 1t. '' 'l "r (1 f'l, 111 tl l11 1 1 L a
slron!!l\' :-;cf'ntotl !!Utu-., \'il. 11'\'rrll nt tl a H£'"~. r • f t
stoa·at1v·c of C'IIIISI'It•ra!Jie powt>r. Tlu ,. , arc II• 1 Ill' lh 1 1 1 ~ n
or thH lll:tll rroro sueh n ('(Uti li Ill:\~ I t llllk ht• 1.-u all t I )' b n
1Inw n~xt clid .l••:itl-1 C'scnpc fr• Ill tl r• l•tt tU ~ 'I'h rc ar l\\U \\ll) , 111'
UCI'Il clnuc. Ju tf... fir~t p rc•, l1•' '''" "'' f :r nv ha\c b n n 1 t' f.
111alw l11..; c..:cnrt- nlnur. In th • ~-' o tl 1 C', J· .. ph 01 I ~~ t
pa111 ..; 111 rctr:mltn L!Jis hoth•, \\O llclu1 t L<' \I rv l1k• I\' L• lc t r n t \
Wil1WIIl thr IT g"•litll' to lilt!·, Ill\, I I n..cr lltl 1 tit\) C" 1;•ltt1 II f ll-t II •I I
rec•J\'Crcd. lw l.:ul then uotltin~ to 'o L t l.J "nlk ufl"; :111 af tJ cy I
they hnd nntltin.! H• elcl hut to curry him nwny, nud luke\ Lf' 11 cr ry t
But here the Chrt"'llan will s=t)' thnt "' 1tlu r of tltc> c t au... c ui,J h \
n \\'A.Iell wns ~ct there f 1r the cxprr'..~ p 1rp of pre•\ 111 1 , r) th 1 ,
matter of the watch mu..t tlwrcfurc Lu lrHJlln:d 1n1 '· .\n at •o lm11 1 th
e\•idcrwc to l"hr•w thnt. if there wcr~ nuv wnl h l ''r<', th ,. " r• n"'J c p
r
ll l
II.
n.
~ ,, \
r
In the tir:-:t plac(', the stouc wns rolltd D\\D\' frf\m tt e Ct; r, ~:~nd the • • r
UCts i1:1d llccn liUIIC ph)'Sll'llll)' by Dfl 1tnf!CI1 ~S :\httJH'W r~--1
..!) ft8~! til V 1\
awak£', woulcl hare bcPu n:; likely to oh~t·rra tlwm, \\hen b in•! ,1,1 <', n~ tf t
by .Jesus himself, or hy JM<'ph nud .:\•co•lcm s; nnd the sauglc fact, lt t
r "' l
' I. I b c
tl ) dJtl 11
these nc·ts d~tne, nlono pro\·cs thnt thcv werl' ns1c<'p.
Hut even if ,lesus was restored to i1fe supemnturn1h•, he of emirS~' wn k e) fiUL nt ~I ~ r,
for an .nngel is reprc~f'ntcd to hu,·c been sent froo J.e.nn~n to or en tl•c clr r 1 1l I L 11 1 out.
Now, lf the wntch lwc..l bern awake, tl1ev wnultl I nvc been ju"L all l1krly lt) I. ,. r t C' \I r II
Jeslts when he came out thw, as lhl'j' ~voulcl 1f he l1ud recr.,·crcd naturn h·. n 1 I nll lh 11
come out o.lone, or ns they would to l1a\"c dctcct~·tl nny one (JMepll nne! ~ 1 o f't 1 r ran-
st;Lncc), who should h:J\'C come nntl tnkcn the body i but the ftct ti11H they dul t l ~ c I• 10 Ill
all when he catne out, is nlone sufficieut c,·iclen~'C tllr~.t they were a lcf'p.
Ag-~in. .It was perfectly natural thnt the watch should tiiCPp. If tl.f'y saw n c rr c fi ly
deposttcu 1n a tomb, the rloor closet.!, and a stone plncell ng-ninft it, LI•PY "oulcl 11 l be r a e
very wn~~cful by nny fear, either thntthc bo,!y 1Lsclf would return to ltft oud u okc ats pr,
or Lhat.tl wo~ld be stolen by men, "ho should know tta:n a watch ''as nC'nr-DII•I ll \\ 'proba-
bly .thetr feclmg of security, that matlc them sleep so !'OnnJiy thnt r\cttl1<'r t c:> 1 i c ot' Ll1e
r olling of the stone, no1 the openmg ol' the door, hy \\hom('\ cr C'BU!"~>d, nu ahc,J t ~'Ill.
But .Matthew says (~S-·1) that whc11 )lary came to the ~epulchre, an mz;;d hod rull•·•l
THE RESURRECTIOX. 5J
away the ,.:tone from the door, a1Hl sat upon it, an<l that "for feat· of him the keepers dicl
shake, and hecnmc a~ dead men.H
Few probably will belie,·e that an angel was there, ~imply because a simple, supe1-:;titiou:-;
ancl timid "oman irnn!!'inecl :::he ~aw one-at :iUCh a time and place too, where a woman, '' ho
belie,·cd in nn~eb, wouiJ Lc more likelr to see one than at an\· other. But there is no Cc>r-
tainty, I think 'I may ~ay proLauility, lluit she C\en inwgit_1ecl tJ1nt she saw one .sitting on the
stone, for l\lark ~ay;-; nothing about her seeing an angel ·u.2tlzout the scptilchre, l1ut sars (16-
5) that the woman .;;aw a young man clothe<.l inn lung white garment within the ~e-pulchrc;
and Luke only says (-2-J-3 & 4) that after they !tad ente1·ed into the sepulchre; "two Jll('ll
stO(Hl Ly them in !--hining garments," &c. John says ~1othing about .l\Iary's seeing an nngel at
all the tir:-:t time she went to the sepulchre.
But pc>rhaps the Chri~tiau will a5k, if there were no angel there, Yrhy difl these keeper::;
appear "like dead men r:' 'Yhy, for the very good reason thut they Jay on the groutHl asleep,
o;:; I have :-;uppo!\ed them to ha,·c done; and this umlouLtedly i:.; ns far as they did rr:"ernhlc
dend tllell. llut .Matthew :O:U)S the:'e "keepers did sh.ake,'' nn<l it may be argued that thi:-;
could not uc if they lay on the ground. To this it mny he replietl, that neither could they
ha,·e "IJCeotnc like dead men," utHl yet contiuued strmdin~. The unbelieler has a right to
take hi:-" choice of the~e contraclictory statcnteuts-1 thercti.>rc tnkc the b:-t, that they "be-
came lil\e dead 11tcn," and then account fot· it by sayin!! that they wet·e asleep. The time
when 1\lnry :.:aw t!Je..e men in this :-ituntion wns ju,.;t at dawn of day, l\latthew say~; (Juhu
snys (~U-l) thnt the ti111e of )Iar} 's hciug there" as''" hen it wns yet dark''), and that is the
tiure \\hen they woulcl naturnlly he a.:<leep. ·
.l\latthew nckno\\ led!!£'"' that the " ·:llch tnl&l the Gov~rnor that tlwy l1acl l1ef'n n:->lccp; hut
he !$1l\" that thi..: .:-:ton• wn:-> a fa]~Phootl, allCl that the :::oldiers were LriiJcllln the Chief Prie~t::;
to teil it. But it i-; i>J'Ptl~ tertain tbat ,i\lntthcw cithe•· mnnut:1ctured tbi~ ~tory, so fnr a:; it
relate'! to the r'nl~ehooJ. nnd urihery. or thnt he adopted it" ithom ),no\\ ing any thing of it~
truth-for how collld he know that thry ltacl not ,]<>pt? or how eouJ,l this outcast fi::-hcrmnn,
ur nny of hi~" fc>ather, kuow C!llY thin~ nhout the Chief Prir:::ts 1naking a bargain '' ith the~c
:solcliPr~? wa, lH•, or ~uch fc•llnw:; as he, let into their eoun:--cb.?
The ..j1nph• clPclarntiou of the;-,;e ~oldier..; j..; sutlicient C\'iclrnce that they were a.:-lecp,-for
it j" not in hu11ann uaturf' that lllen, in tlu..ir .-.ituntin11 : J.utnwing that Je:o"us had pretended to l1e
the .:\1"~-:inh, thr~ Sou of (;ud, &c:., :-:hou)d !"'t•e au augel cont<' <lllcl roll nway the stone from the
t)Hor of tltc ~f'pult-hrc whcrf' he ''""' buriPd, that they :,hnuld feel such fear, on account of
I"PPiug thi..; ran~<·l , a..; to ·' ,,Jtal,c anrl IJf'Cntne likt' dcnd llll'll,'! and then that they ~huuhl all go
:.J.\\ay nnd dcu.r all thi..... and :-a) that th•·y had lwen a,Jccp.
Srill h•:o-', if fl""'"'ihiP, i..: it in huttmll natun•, tltat the Chief PriP:-ot:--, who knc\\ "hnt Je::-us
had cl:tiuwd tn he, when tltry lcurued that he had ri-:<'11 t'rulll the dend, Jllcl knew nl..;o, n:-; they
then of IICC<'"..ity lllll.'l, that It" \\a:-; a lwill!! lltlt to IJp coutrnllc·d or lJatll<·d i11 his dc:-;i~lt:O: hy
fhe111, :-hnuld think of girin~ '' lar~f' lt111nry" tn thr:o:C' ~oldiPr:; to hire tllelll to say thut the
lwdy ltad hN· n :-tolcn. l\lc·u II£'\ £'1' would lmn.• darPd c)() :--twb 11 thint.r. Hut =-uppnsing ti.Ptll
to Ita\'<! <larcclto do it. \\hat ruuld tlll'Y expert tn ~nin L~ ::-ouch n fraud? or how lon7 C'ould
th<•y <'XJH•ct to c'ollt'Pal it? II' thf•) lmcw that .lf'...th "a:- nli' <>, they c·ottld not hut ha\ e bern
n~..:un·cl that tit<' t".H·t woulcl he ilmtJediatcl_r l'no\\ n; <lllcl thC'y 11111.
..t al:-H hnvc hcc•11 aware that
as c.:or111 a-, th(' f'ac·t ..)10uld han! hrcnmP publif·. the• faJ,t>hoocl nf' th<' ...nldiC'rs "ould l.Jr rxpo~ccl,
ancJ their owu l,um·c•·) iu the f.!reatl.·:-t dnngN ofdetcrtiou. The nh:-;tmlity ofprNe11ding that
liiPil \\ onld aet thu..., under ;o;tlf'h c·irc·um...tntw<':::, i.; .:-Cl !,!ro..:.; n-.: tq hc> prrti•r:tJy ,li.:-gu::-ting.
I hen· take it fi1r grnntccl thnt it has been P::-tnhli:-ht><l, by ericlrucc, whic:h Cl1ri-.tinu:-. 11111st
ul,iclc ll.r, that, i( tlt,•rc wc>rf' a watch at this tonll1, tll<'y \\NC a:--1<-rp. Thcr<' i.; ~.-till nnotlrcr
sul1j<'ct of inquiry, ' iz. whether there were> any watch nt all there? Tbe C\ideuce i::; very
!stroll~ tc·ucliug- to :-hew that ther0 wn:-: nouc.
lu the fir:o-t plarr, noiHlcly hut .:\latthc'\\' :-ny=-- a11y thiug ahout there h<'in~ nny, nud his rcputn-
tinll f'lll· truth i.: dPI'idt>dly too had to ha\'c nu~ thing i111prolmhlc, which, if true," otdd muke
.fnl' hi:; r·:lll.:c•, IIPiiPn·d 011 the ~tr('ll!,!tlt of hi:-: a:-:-:c•rtiou. 1h• hn.-; told ton tnany l'toric:; ahout
!'nldiN;o; hci11~ IH·ibt•<l tn t<'ll a fal:-;ehoocl, about Chief Pric;;-;b' brihiu~ tiH•IJJ, about the earth
qunkin;!, roc·k::. retuliu!!, !!Ta,·es openin~, dl•:td ri:)in~, nhout :-:rnunu~ on the tnount1 S..c. &.c. to
he eutitlecl t11 any IIICI'I'Y ''hen his statemcut:-; arc to ue c~alllilled, or au.} cre<.lit \\hen those
stat~tiiPIIt~ arc in•probnhlr.
l\lntthcw had a :-tron~ inducement t'l mal\c up a :-.tory of this kintl, if it ''c1·e f:1lse. It ap-
peat·s (•!S-13 ~ t:)) that~ at the tillle hP wrote! it was the curreut opinion :unung the Jews
that the llodr \\'a' :--tolt•u from the tomb in the nid1t. .And he kuew that tlti:i would ue the
uatuml it~l'c;·enrc of people in ~encrol, unle:-=-- :-:;nn;cthin~ ''ere told by the friends of .Je:;us to
pr·on~ that such could not have l•cc>n the ~a~c. He th~ref'ore :-:ay" thnt there wn~ a g-uanl
there. But C\' Pil when he has ~aid thi~, he ;-..ecut=' to be a\\ nrc that he ha~ not relieved his
ca~e fro111 all Clnhnna...~IIICilt, and that it i;-; nce<>:mry ti•r him to account, in some wa.\·, for the
fact, that the circum~tancc of a guarcl's hcing there did not ~ati::-f)' the Jeu·s, ns well as him-
~elf, that the body was not ~tolcu. He rould a<·count for thi:-: iu no way !Jut b) <"har~iug the
soldiers with ha\·i11g told n fn}..;choocl, hJ \\ hi(·h the Je\\'s were tlecei\'C'l. Jlp therefore <lc-
clarcs thnt they clid tell n fal:-:ehood, and in mal,ing this dP<"Iaration, he r-;hews that he hinr~clf
was n man too tli::dwuc~t to be trusted, because he certainly could not hnve known that they
54 Tilt. DI.I.ST'~ RF.PLT.
dicl not sleep. On hi3 own sbo\\ iug, tbe~eforc, he, t~ithout nuy certnin knowlNl~c of the
facts in the case, contradicts tho:-e \\ ho dhl kuow thcn.1 perfectly, anct u..k.; u~ w hciJ,., e,
merely because he says ~o, that tho.'e others w~re nil lmr'; ahhou!!h he ncknl)\\ lctl::e., thnt
the Jewish nation believed, am] COJltlllUCd (0 uehc\·e, that they lolJ the truth. A '"Cf) IHOUCSl
man truly! . .
But even when he b:ts accused the golrl1~r5 of lymq,_ he hns not •l~•ne nil thnt wn~< llN"~'"'"'ary
to be done. He must, in order to make th1s =-tory ngam't them ~,r!Je\'ecl, ..how thut thP)' ha,l
s:ome motive for Jyinfl'. He therefore mak(>...: aawth<"r chnrge, winch he could nut hn' e known
~0 be true even ifit ~·ere true, arrain~t the Chlcf Prie,G:, mul !-aY"' thnt thf"y hrilJc,lth•• "'oldicra
to do it 'But e\·en when he hat done thi~, he ha" not cleared his ca--c of nil till' chtlkuh~ in
which i~ is involved. It i:-; nece:--.-,nr\' that he :"hould nl ..o ncrount ti•r chc fnl"t thot thP -.nlalier!l
were not punished for slecpin" wbeu they hncJ urcn set n~ a :,!Unrtl. Out· fnJ..etumd 111orc, if
it be but beJie,·ed will now m;ke out his ca..e-hc thcrcfurf" reprp..cnh that the Clurf Pri~a...
-those wicked Chief Prie;-.b, who were full of ult manner of initluit)-intcrfcrrd fur thetre
soldiers, accorc.Jing to a:!rP.ement, anti ma,~e ~uch rcpre:-e•.Hntion~ in_ 1hc·ir f'u' or ( litJ..e one,.,
of course, un)e:'=S he means to charge the Go~·ernur nl:-:o "uh corrupuou) R'i ~n' {'cl thl!m.
Such is ~lalthew'~ story-a ~tor_\', that uu;ht h:t\"C lu'cn \'aluublc tu Chn..tJ tllll)'• \\Crt' lt
not that, like many other !-.toric.- of the ..amc nuthor, it failed lO "kc<'p pr~•rntlu!n~ in 'ie\\ .':
The circum;;tancc thAt 11either :\lnrk, Luke nor Julin umk•• nny uwutwn of the ~unnl, 1.:1
1'ery strong evitlenc~ that there wns 11011£'; hf't'"Uli'C th<'y 111u ..t nhuo<.t ncc<',:--..nrtl) hn\t ~uonn
that the way, in winch the Jews nccountcd fur tho nh:-cncc of the holly Irum rhc to111h, "as
by supposing it to ha,·e been ~tolen; ancl, if thf"y hutl common~......,., they mu-.t hn' c· knu\\ n
that this supposition wn~ n rcu.;;onnblc e~ur, nnd thut thcreforP, if there \'H!rC nny f. c. t-. tf"nalu~g
to contradict it, it wn::; aullnf"u ..cly imporlnllt to atu:-ir ..-nu..c to '-lRlP 111£'111. \ N tht·~ Ia 'l' l'tiUd
11ot one !"YIIahle un the suhject. B··~iclf'~, if tlwn• hn•l bcf•n n ~unnl thcrr, thut uf it,t·lf ,,·as
an incident so prominf'nl, one woul•l think, thnt th~_•,..e lliPn would hn' e l>ct•n llkt•l} to Inn e
mentioned it, e\·en if tiH•y had nut . t'f'll it" pnrticulnr impurtnnc-P.
Another /!round for hcJae,·in!! tllnt th£'rc '' n~ 1111 wntch dtcrf', j .., that t11cr<' Ff'Pillll to ho"'o
been no fl'ooll rea-;on whv there :-houlcl hn''" hccu nu<'. Thf' mnn wn~ 1/r.nd, n"' th• ,. nil ttup-
pose<l, n~<f the hody ha•i hf"Pn tnken tl uwn nnd :!i n·u lf.» iu frieutJ.., nntl "h t 11 or~ "a uc--
cess:uy? But .1\lnuhrw :o:a)s (::!i-tjJ ~c.) thnl the rcn 111 a"~ignPcl ~~~ thr Chi f Prit'..U and
Phnri:>ees, who wi·..tlec1 to ha\ t! n ~unrcl ~cl, wo-.., thut "lh,.y rnn mb,.utl that J, u.. h et ~tnul
that in three day.5 he :;hnui,J ri.;c a!!niu.'' ~uw thi~ ..tory i'i Jtcrftl"tl) ruhr 1111... ht-r 1 ,. at ia
evident that C\'en the di:-ciple~, not ouly hucl II~'' rr h• nnl huu "'n~ 1l.unl) th t tn tftr clnya
he should ri.::e n!!'ain, but thnt tlaP}' ltaclnut f'\ en h<'nrd him 'D)' nuy th111~. "tu h 1h y ron-
siclered equivalent to such a ch•dnration-how 'llf'returly nl urci th• n ,,. 11 tu pr 11 1 el that
others hau heard ~tu·h n :-tnt<'mcnt from hi•u. lf then the Clu f Pru -.t., h t ur' • r h nrcl ftUY
thing about his ri:iin~ n~nin, the moti,.,., \\hil"h ~lnttht'\\" :o-R)"' uulnl"••cl tla 111 to C~'t n \\ t..-la t,
did uot exi.:t; and if thnt part of dte story, that ra•lnlf''f to the 111otJ' c lJo fnf ... , tlac ''hoi 14
prolmbly fal:0e.
There is still another C"irCUill'-lRII<'(', whirh, in m~· manti, '-lRrllJl t1 j.. tor~ or the\\ t<"h "n
fabricntion-anrl thut io(, that nil the pn•pnrntion~ f 1r h t\ 111~ thf' \\ ntf'll • t, ~r. nn ul In
ila,·e been macle on the :-.nbi,·Jth tlo~·, ( ~lot. '::!7-{d ~c.) . TtH:-rc <'C'IIl" t • hn,; I,., u n 1 nt-
ternpt to com·eal the fa..-t of thi,. hf'ill.!: rtunc on thnt tlR), In- rnlllll:! Jt. iu..t n I uf tJ hl1uh.
"the nc~t ct1\y th Rl fullowccl ti.P clay uf prrpnr Jti au.'' It
1
thf" ~tor~ , 11 h I uf rtlllllll ~ n at
doe:0;, hncl run thu~, "now, on th~ "nhh:1.th dA), the> Chrcf Prw 1.. nnll Ph ra 1 r "'' lr tl r
unto Pilnte" &r. the improbabilitY wouf I hn' c• b~.£'11 c;,n ,::1 rJI I! R.. lu I cln1.:. n•u .. · D 1 1 11
'youi.J noti;<: it R~ ~~~C 1irst ~~aOC'('} iull "IIOW, tht 1U \l tin) I~ ll f1JI1\\ f•J tJ f' Cl ) If J~rc Jt rA
tron, the Chu~f ( ne~t:; arul Pluan.;,.,..., c-nauc tu:!<'lht-r unto Pllute' ~r. (lnf' ll••t 11 • ,, tltc
~mprubability ~o reaclil)·, n.w~ wn"' thf"rrfurf' llw IICll r fur111 of ~~pr~ wn, m tlll!t J rucul r
ln~tance, nol\ruh..tnn<lln!! It h n\\'kwnnt nn•l unnnturnl.
For my p;trt I hrlie\'f' the whole oftiJi... :.tnry tn lu\\£' t,,. n thr wnrl\ offt knMP, ftntlr•r ltft-
bly of u more modern ~llt\\e thnn )f.ttthrw. S amf' pi HI~ prlf'..t (he fur(' pn r... h I tl(cornf'
as hone.
.;;t n~ the~· .n•·e !10\\) proh:ahl) :-nw ''hnt \\n.. wtnlln~. n111l nttrmptrtl t, UpJ hit.
One f'On~ulcrntlon l:i here worthy of uotirP, 'i.l. thnt 1f thrre '' crP uo \\ ntrh. 11 H •t un
rrohahle that Jc..us went, nr wns cnrriect, from tl1~> tuu h P\ rn 1wun~>r thnu thP 'C"fi uti 111 ht.
~tis 1_ncleed probable e\·cn .thnt whc•n Ju..rpll nrul ~i<"ml• IIHt' (" tw npprnr tu hll' r· It cn u Jrc
mtellt~ent ~nen thnn tt!e _fncnd' nf J£'o:u-.. !!('llf'rnll~) hucl hun lnkcn cln\\ n f;um the• rrc , ucl
nskecl of Palate the prn·alr:,;e of lakin~ thr fuJ•h· intn thrar car<' lhl'\' hf'lic\~cl thn( tu ctt all
be re:;toreJi that their ohjcct in :'eckin~ to ~rt.the holy was to' rl'...torc 11; umJ th t, on rho
,·cry fir.~t 111ght, ns soon a~ the women RIH1 the othl'lr frieucf,. uf .Jp..n;a, '' hc1111 it \\ 111ltl uot do
to tru~t with n secret, hstf g-one, ancl it hnd hccomc clnrk, thC'\ touk lllt'lt--urc-. to rrrenrr hun.
It is e\·iuent that the cli,ciplc;o; clicl not !.!O to the tomt, on the ;abltnth cln,·-~o thnt if th~" t ulv
had been ab:'cnt on that dn't', thev wouhl not tJu,·c known it. Atf tlu·v kn~>w thout the 11111.0
of the exit of Je~u.s frot~l the tomij, wa~, that \'Cr)· ~nrly on t hr. "cconcf morniug he "ll! gone
-bill. of the len~tn of tlme he hnc.l heen J!one thPy knew nothin:.!.
If •t.be true that the inrli' ic.Junl, ~een by the di..ciplc.-;, WRq really J£'"U~, hi! whol,. rour ,
~fter has re·nppearnnce, t~nd5 to confirm nil I hn,·e suppo::f."'l in n·lntion to hi~ nnrurnl rf "tnrft-
taon. Had be actually nsen from the (lead, be would undoubtedly ho,·c shown hinu5elf in
THE RESURRECTION. 55
the most open manner, so as to have made the fact of his resunection notol'ious. But he
kept himself timidly concealed from the pub~ic eye. He skulked about like a fugiti,·e, who
had luckily e5cape<.l the clutches of the executioner. He ~uw none but his frieuds. Peter
says (Acts 10-41 ) he did not shew him~elf "to all people," but (only) to hi~ disciples.
His first .interview even "·ith them was had in the evening and \Vithin closed cloo1·s, (John
20-19). Eight days afterwards he met them again, and ·within closed do01·s, (Johu 20-26).
Perhaps he saw them a few times more, but he carefully avoided being seen opeuly. He
lurked about among his former adherent$ for forty days, and at the end of that time he was
among the missing.
It i~ now incumiJent upon those, who maintain that he \Yas supernaturally restored to lifeJ
to show, IJy rea:;onable e' idence, what uecame of him at the end ofthese forty nays. Those,
,,,.ho belie\'e only that animation was natw·ally restored in hi111, can easily satisfy themselves
as to his fate, by supposing that lJe was detected and privately slain; that he sought a resi-
dence \\here he might be safe from a second crucifixion; or th at he went off with tbe inten-
tion of liviug concealed for a while, and then returning at a mo1·e faYorable time to renew
hi::; attempt to make himself king of the Jews, and that he died before such an opportunity
preseuted it:;elf. 13ut neithet of these suppo~itions will answer the put·poses of those, who
maintain that he was supc1·Jwturally revi,·ed. They must dispose of him in a more dignified
manner. Now, on \\·hat e\'itlence can they do it? .l\Iatthew and John give no intimation
that they ever knew what became of him. Nor do nny of the e]e,·en ever speak of ha\·ing
,,·itnesseu this utit·aculous '' a~cent.'' Yet .1\I::trk and Luke,\\ ho are our on!y authority fot·
believing that he ascended at all, both say (.:\lark 16-19. Luke 24-50 to 51. Acts 1'~) that
be did it in presence of his <.li:,ciple::::. Now i:; it to be IJelie,·ed for a moment, that if he bad
thus ascended into heaven in the preRence of his disciple!', no one of them would erer have
given us his testimony to the fact? or that Matthew anc.l John, who were of the twelve, when
they unuertook to write biographies of him, woulJ have omitted all allusion to such an event
as this, if it had ever happened? The thing is incredible. It would have been better for
their case to have omittctl the \vltolc of their other accounts of the supposed miradcs and
wonderful work::: of Jesus, than to lla\'e omitted this single one, for without this, the rest,
under the circumstances, arc utterly incredible, anJ good for nothing. Tlwre is no excuse
for attempting to support a story of this kind on the rnere hearsay ueclarations of l\lark and
Luke, who could have known nothing of the fact, when the alleged eye-witnesses are silent.
'J'hc imposition is too rro:<s to (leserve the toleration of society for a moment. 1\nu that class
of men, who dare get their li\'iog by pal:ning off this abominable deception upon the under-
standings of the siutplc and confiding, ha\'e little more excuse for their conduct thnn that other
class of swindlers nnll cheats, ng::lin~t whom we ha\'e laws to protect the community.t The
disciples perhaps (as some of their ob~en·ntions indicate) supposed that Jesus hnc.J gone to
1Jeaven, autl well llwy might ~uppose so, antl for these rcnso11~, viz. that they thoufl'ht that the
proper place for him, nnd perltnps they remembered thnt he hnd once before told ttcm that he
was goiug to the Fntber, nntl tltey lwew uot now whew C'I~P liP cnultl hn\'f.l £!One to. (They
did not dream that he could nm flll'U!J)· But they ne\'er spenk of haring seen f1im ascend.
Certainly the bare conjecture!) of tl1esc eleven nrc not to be taken as cvitlence of his ascension.
'l'hc belte\'er then i::~ left with a risen Messiah on his hnnus, whorn he has not dispost!d of,
anc.l whom he cnnnot dispose of, b.v nny rensonnLlo evidence, thnt CHH be found in the Bible.
llut supposing nny one should still say that he tcill nevertheless continut"! to bclie,·e that
Jesus went to hea\·en. let me nsk him whether he supposes that tl1e bod,rJ of Jesus went there?
thnt human body, wl 1ch i3 supposed to hnve been prepnred solely for !Jim to live in while on
the earth? Surely he \\ill not pretend that this flesh auc.l blood, this lump of metlet·, this cor-
poral system went to the lo.nd of Aouls. \Vha~ then did become of it, unless it walked slily otr
one day out of the reo.ch of danger?
Besides, what bccnmo of the dress he hnd on? Did he \\'Cnr that iuto the world of spirits?
But this is not nil. There is, in tl1i~ story, still another absurdity, gross ns nny prcceclincr one.
The testimor.y of the witnesses is) thnt he ascended "up'' into henvcn. Now, which way
from the earth is up 1-
* Lnkc j~ ~aid bv Chriotians to hn\'e writtPn tltf' .~\rt!' .
t Yct.it. is 11ot tl;at t.llf')' titus. g(•l men's. mnllf'J, thnt 1 would oppoi>c th e C'lrrgy; although thnt woul'd
~P. n eufltcu'nt TPn."on lor oppos11t~ th<'m, tf thPrc ~' f'I"C not C1tlacr n.:asons strougn. 'l'hc waste of money,
J11~mon~e .th~ugh ll h.c. 1 conr:Hicr nR umoug the slt~htest of ~he €'\ lla nttE·ndillg tlte cxif-tcnte nnd support
nt ClmstJ~liiiJ: I.t 1s herall!'l! thr! C'INgy ,.b) means of thctr lnfiuHOlJt:i doctrirJes, appal, delude und en·
~Ill\'I; the •mag11~ntw!'" of tJle yol~ng.; dcpnn~ m~n. of t!~eir. ml•ntn.l Iibert)'. of their judgment, renson und
cnndor; fill tlwtr JJHIHis w•.th prt•Jmhcc, nnc_ltlicl~ m~n~mnt10u.s wllh 'ulgul' nncl disgusting SUJJCrstition15 ;
r?h truth ~nd reol'o~ of tltt·Jr po'\r.r, ~nc~ rcFJI$~ to~ts rlrtbus the1r J•rogrcss wiH·nHcr they confltct with the
nlc dclu~wn nnd 1mpo~tum, \~'hlf'h It 1s thl•.•r JllterP"t to ndvotutc; nnd bt>tUllRc tla~y thus ruukc mcu
dupcfl.' fi)ol'!, sfuHF, row;wl.H, .t11~ots ~nd fiu~ntlcR. that I .would oppoRc nnd r-xposo them nnd thf.'ir syatcm.
It 1e, 1n short, becnusl' ( hr!~:>ttnmty •~ nntl1mg but n nuecruhlf' nud di!-=gUf'ti11g l'uperstition ; IJccau~c its
prctt·ndc•l cYJd!·n.r('R nrt- fnle:e, mnny of th:m gro~sly nud glnringly fidse; bce:wse the Clergy sN•Jn to
un•1Nstand nil tlus, nncl yet hnn~.tlto nt_ldarJty to nnposc ufon men by pretending tho conu·ary, nnd to
d,eg:n<!e ~nd gov(>rn tlwm by thus 1mposmg upon them, that would !lwnkcn opposition to the Clorgy and
ClmHtJan tty.
'l'Il F DEIST'S REPLY.
\nJcr(' is men·~ rcnson, wltt.!n they to.lk of the probability of sucl• stuft' o.s this?
'1 11 • c lUd sodttllun of tlli:;; allcgctl resurrectiOn from the dead, ·supposes Jesus never to
Ia:'\\ c IH lll "l't'll !Jy lti-; (Ji.;c li'IL~ after his crucifixion, hut that they were duped by some one
,, h 1 pr l\'11 I d tu be J('S II:'. There arc some im~robabilities attending this solution, yet none
of 111 J, l ll illk, \\ill he ruunu to lJCar any comparison with that of a man's returniug to life
nr r IJ(' IJ·ul OllCC dic<L
'J'lae Ll t1 uuny teJHliug- to prove that he was seen alive, is but the statements of two men,
p lurh ntrl Luke)" bo Ju nut prete utl tu have seen him, anu of thrr.e other men, (Thlatthew,
Joh11 nud l'nul ), wllu say that thr.y did see him.
•\a> thl' tdurn or tlac th•nu lo hi e wuuJ,] be a supel'uatural event, it is so improbable that it
nppcar" ltttlc Jess lhata riJicu)ou;::; to re~ar<l a.t all any stories told by men, who do not pretend
to lt:n c ..Hen t 1e lll:lll, nnd who only relate wl1at they heard, probably years afterwards. },ew
words utdy \\Ill dacrct'ure be UC\ oteJ lo tlae testimony of .Mark and Luke. nut since .Matthew,
.It 1111 auJ Paul say that tltey ~a.w him, their testimouy wiJJ be more particularly examiued-
ahhllll~ h, tf the ~ll i!JC fact hnd uce u related of any person but Jesus, or in any other ?ook
than tit•· Brule, 1t '' ould not he rPgarded as in the slightest degree probable, whether testtfied
Lo bv t" o, by te n, or even tell thousand me'l. If~ in the case last supposed, we were not to
doubt the lw11tsi!J of the witncssC;s, we should sull di:ibelieve their testimony, however direct
aut! po:-;1l1re it might be-for we should say, anu sn.y it too with the most entire confidence,
that Lltey uw.:.t iu some way or another have been mistaken, even though the circumstances
i1au bccu such ns that the witnesses should deem it impossible that they could ha7e been, and
s11clJ thnt we could not te:t how they were. 'Ve should believe that they had seen an in-
c.lt\'itl•tal, who so uenrly ·t·csc:mblc:d the deceased, that they were in an error as to the identity of
th l! pe rson. or we should say that some clelusiou haJ seized on and deceived them.
i\n pu......:il;le amount of hutuan testimony coul.d make us believe for a moment, that l\iaho-
JI W l l'll~l' rrl) lll the clead, although the i~lCt were universa11y uelie\'ed uy his followers. Even
if it were ~aid that i\lahoanet, after his death, \Vas seen alive again and again, daily and hoUI·ly
for year=--, lJy great multitudes who had known him intimately before his death, we could not
he umut> to heli <.·\·e that the itHiiYidual seen was he. Even if it were said that this individual
as;-;u uwd tn be :\IahoJJJet; to fill the place, and :ake the station, which he had occupied; that
J ll~ cuu\·er...cJ a bout lwTing been dead, and gave a reason for haYing suffered dea.tb; that he
h <
Hl JJHltk~ a bout hi::; person that resembled those about the person of l\Iahomet; still we
f'hould nut uelieve; we should say that the man "·as an impostor; that he had disguised bim-
~el f so as to re~e111ule :
1\Iahomet as nearly as he coulJ, and that he was by this art, deceiving
all who eretlitecl hi::; pretension:s, however numerous and respectaule those persons might be.
But thi~ i3 ::;uppo~ing n much stronger case than that related by the biog1·aphers of Jesus.
The imli,·iclual, "hom they supposed to he Jesus, did not show himself as such to the multi-
tude, alth ough, if he were really Jesus, and a belief in him as a Sadour were necessary to
tlwir (uture happine:-;s, he would seem to have been bound L>y the strongest principles of moral
ouligntiou tu have thus shown hilllself, that he might have ineYitably convinced those who had
L(·fore been incredulous- and the fact that he did not show hjmself to the world as the one
who had been dead, is very strong evideuce of itself that he was not the real Jesus.
'I'his iudi\'id ual wae seen by eleven, who had been followers of Jesus, and perhaps also the
same inJividual was seen by lhree or four other persons, although it is very doubtful whether
the person seen by the eleven \\as the o~e seen by 1\lary.
This individual was seen {as John says) by a part of the uiscip1es of Jesus at three different
times, and unless he 'yere the one whom l\Iary and the two going to Emmaus saw, we have
hardly a s haclow of evidence that he was seen and recognised as Jesus, at any other times, or
by any other persons, after the crucifixion. And yet LukP. says (Acts 1-3) that Jesus was on
the earth forty days after that C\'ent. If he himself were on the earth forty days, where was
lte, and what was he doing during all tJ1is time, that he should be seen not at all by the public,
ancl but three times by his own disciples? If he were the genuine Jesus, a tenth part of this
time was sufficient for him to have shown himself so publicly to the Jews, and proved his iden.
tity so unequivocally, as that the conversion of the whole Jewish nation would have been the
probable result. Yet he did not thus exhibit himse-lf, but left about sixty generations ofa whole
n:1tion, as believers must say, eternally to perish, merely because they were not convinced that
h e was the .l\lessinh. Even if be were really the l\1essiah, and did actually exhibit a disregard
of m~n's happiness so inhuman as he is here represented to have done, a man must have an
cxcceclingly <.lcg-raued moral taste, or very obtuse moral perceptions, to be capable of feeling
nuy re~pect for his character. .
B1
1t let us look more minutely at the evidence.
\Vc ~n~ told (i\Jat. 27-GG) that the sepulclHe was made sure, the stone placed against the
door bemg sealed, or made fast, and a watch set. The inference, which the believer draws from
these facts, is, that no one could hnve stolen the bocly without beincr detected. But the reader
will here recollect the evidence, before offered, to prove that, if li1ete were any watch, they
were as lecr, and also to prove that there was no watch. I shn.ll herE' take it for granted that
that evidence was so.t1sfu.ctory to prove one or the other of those positions. 'rhere was then
oppo1'ltc1lify enough to steul this body; and if it were pos8ible to steal it, the single fact that
,.
THE RESURRECTIO N. 57
it was absent, is conclusive proof that, if it were dea<.l, it was carried away ; because, as long
as we can imagine a ·natural way in which this body could be removed, we are not to suppose
it to have been supernaturally done.
Let us now look at the evidence of Jesus having been seen by 1\'Iary. Matthew says (~8-
9 & 10) that as :Vlary Magualen and the other Mary were going from the sepulchre, Jesus met
them, and commanded them~ saying, "All hail," (precisely as a man, who, on seeing these
women coming fi·om the tomb, should infel' that they bad been followers ot Je-sus, and should
feel disgusted at the thought of their believing that he would rise again,* would have done,
if he had wished to impose on them on account of their superstition); that they then came
and held hhn by the feet and worshipped him, and that he then told them to not be afraid,
but to go and tell his brethren to go into Galilee, and that they should see him there. Such
is Matthew's account of the interview with Mary. Mark's story is somewhat different.
He says that the ange1, whom he says the women saw in the sepulch1·e, told thelll to go and
tell the disciples that .Jesus had gone into Galilee, and that they should see him there. And
all that he says rlbout Mary's seeing Jesus, is simply this (16-9) that early in the morning
on the first day of the week, "he appeared to her"-but says nothing of the place where he
appeared to her, or of what he said to her. Luke's account is still different ft·om either.
He says that Mary, and othe'r women, went to the sepulchre, and saw two angels, but does
not say -
a word about Mat·y's seeing Jesus at all after his death. John's account is stili very
materially different ft·om that of either of the other three. He says (20-1 to IS) that Mary
went :first to the sepulchre, (making uo mention of any other women going with her); that
she saw the stone rolled away from the door; that she then returned and told this to Peter
and John; that they (Peter and John) then went to the sepulchre, and saw the gnwe clothes
&c. and then \·Vent away, (not having seen Jesus); but that after they (Peter and John) had
gone, ·Mary remained behind at the sepulchre weeping; that she then looked into the sepu1-
cht·e, and saw two angels, in a different position ft·om that represented by Luke, viz. sitting
one at the head and the other at the feet where the body had lain; that as she turned hel'self
back ft·om this sight, she saw a man whom she did not know, but whom she supposed to be
the gm·dene1;; that this suppo8ed gardener asked her why she wept, and whom she sought;
that she answered him in a manner that indicated that she had been a believer in Jesus; that
this su-
pposed gardener then said to her "Mary;" that at the utterance of this single word
she believed the man to be Jesns, (although she had seen him before, and had spoken to him,
and he to her, without he·r knowing him); that she then addressed him in a manner that
showed that she thought him to be Jesus; that he then, (probably to impose on her, and see
how he could keep up and continue the delusion which be saw her superstition and her then
excited imagination had led her into) said to her (assuming to he Jesus) "touch me not! for
I am not yet ascended to my fathet·! but go to my brethren, and say unto them I ascend unto
my f~tther and your father, to my God and. your God." And here ended the interview.
If John's story stood alone, and uncontradicted, it contains enough to show that there was
no Jesus there. If theJ'e were, why did he not show himself to Peter and .John, instead of
Mary alone? Why did not Mary know him at first? Why did he not suffer her to touch
him? How did it happen that he had not as yet been to his fathel'? He had told his disci-"
pies, (John 14-28), "I go away, and come again unto you. If ye lo-ved me, ye would re-
joice, because I said I go unto my father." And y"et John represents him as telling Mary,
ajte1· hi~ sup1'}osed resurrection, that he had not yet been to his father. Where, then-, if he
were Jesus, had he been during that time which he had allotted to go to the Father?
Mary's mistake in supposing this man to be Jesus, is easily accounted for. She was an
exceedingly simple and superstitious woman, as is pro-ved by the facts that she supposed
Jesus had cast out of her seven devils, (1\'Iark 16-9) and that she imagined she saw angels
at the sepulchre. She would naturally, at such n time and place, be in the greatest trepi'da..
tion of mind, and her imagination would be filled with superstitious fancies. vVhen there-
fore the man addressed her by her own name, and doubtl~ssly in a tone a little more emphatie.
or authoritative than he had before used, it is not at all strange that she should at the moment
imagine him to l1e Jesus, and address him as such. He then, seeing her simplieity and de-
lusion, took advantage of her state of mind to dupe her farther, and told her· not to touch
him~ &.c, Here the interview closed before she had had time to recover her self-possession,
and discover her mistake. .
But the stories of all are so dissimilar, and in some of the most, if not the only, impot·tnnt
particulars, so inconsistent with each other, that we cannot determine how much or how
little of either may be true, or how much of all may be false : but we may safely infer from
either alone, or from all together, that she really saw no Jesus there. \Ve are laid under
the stronger necessity of coming to this conclusion by the cit·cumstance that the apostles
themselves did not, at the time, believe her story, (Mark 16-10 & 11-Luke 24-10 & 11)
but considered it an " idle tale."
The next time that he is said to have been seen, was when two, who had been bis follow-
ers, were going to Emmaus. Luke says (24-lS to Sl) that Jesus, on the same day that he
'
* I here admit, for the sake of the argument, that Jesus did predict that he should rise again, and that
this fact was known abroad, as Matthew (27-63) represents it to have been.
s
TJIF. DEJ!;T'S REPLY.
ro"c frn111 th(' ,Jratl, fdl into thr. r·nu1pnny of these tw o men, and conYcrscd with them on the
":t\. 1111.1 \ t•t that duri110' 311 thi;-; tiutc they did not know him. Lulw accou nts for the fact
rh ;l th••\ ,·rid 1wt k11ow ~i111, hr :-;a\ ing- that "rheir eyes were (miraculously) holden that
the•\' ..tau'u!tl not l\tww hi111., iint tn perfimn a uairacle to prevent an individual from being
rt'C;I~Ill ..l'tl, WolJJcl he• tt siii~IIJnr \\ "' Of llH\1\.ill~ it lll<lllife:"t that that indivitlun} hnd risen
fr0111 the tl«':tcl. Be that ~~~ it 111:1\', tlai~ 111nn wnlk<'d with them, aml they told him that they
luttl lu•c11 lwlicn·rs in Je...u:-;. .At~ul furth<'I'IIIOI'C they told him that certaiu women had, that
llllll'llitJ!!, l~t·c•n to the :-<l'pukhr<', that the body \\'as mis~ing, nnd that the women said they
hnd :-1'~'11 itngcJ... "l111 tt>ld rhe111 that .Jc•:->Jb was nli\'c. The supposed J e::-us must have by
thi:-; th11c di:·ru\ t•l·cd wlwt :-;urt of persons he was talking with. He must have seen that they
\H'I't' :-trlltl!!lr iut'li11ecl to bf'lievc thnt Jesu:;; nadly was alive, and thus he umst have been
:-:ati~Jil'd lltnt ·the\' <'tHJld (•a:-:ilv ''" impo:;ed upo11. He thc1·ef01'e nttempts it, and in order to
hrilt•r llll'il' lllilllis iuto such n:-<tate n~ to be en:-;ily duped by any artifice he might choose to
ud1q7£, ht• trit·:-; to cou vi1w'~ .them rntirely that ~esu:'l was ali re, by attem~Hing t~ show from
tl11:ir :--c:riptur<'s that '' Chnl't ought to ha,·e <hed," (a1Hl of course to nse agam). Before
rlw\· had rc•al'ltctl the place \\here the two ,,·ere to stop, he had undoubtedly brought them
tu bt~lie,·c that the ~ton of the women wa.~ true, nud that J esus was really alive. They
\\ere tlu•u rellfl.)' to he cau~ht by his trick, Which WaS this, viz. after they hnu set down tO
<'al, IH' t11ok !Jreud, " nncl hlcs:'ed il, ( in the mnner of Jesus) and brake, and gave to them."
The re:-:ult wn:" :-;uch as might have been expected, viz. "their eye~ we1·e open~d, and they
kucw him.•, llis conduct wa-; then such as might be expected, VJZ. "he vnmshed out of
rlwir :-hdn.''
_.,larl~ t<•]ls the story Ulore briefly. He merely says ( l 6-12 & 13) "nnd after that, he
nppearrtl, in anolller..form, uuto two of them, as they walked, and went into the country.
And they "·ent nnrl toltl jr unto the residue-1~ci~her believed t~ey them." And. wel1 they
llli•rln nut !Jclie\·c them, and well may we uot ueheve them, for 1f he appeared "m another
fur~11,'' how could the witnesses themsel\'es know that it was he?
...\lark -nnd Luke, who were not of the twelve, tell these stories, but Matthew and John, who
tcere of the twehe, sn.v nothing about the matter-.which ~ircumsta~ce is pretty good evidence
that they always supposed there was some decept10n or m1stake in Jt.
A nother circumstance, which ren(lers it probable that this individual was deceiving these
simple men, h;, that it i:;; difficult, if not actually impossible, to conceive of any reason, that he
couiJ have hat.!, if he were Jesus, for not wishing to be known by them at the first.
Snll nnother circumstance, of the same strong character, is the language, which he employ-
ed to bring them to belie\'e that Jesus w3s ali,·e. He even went so far as to call them ''fools,"
{language not very well becomin~ a Saviour), on account of their hackward.ness to believe the
stran:re stories they had heard. If he had commended their good sense in not believing them,
he would ha\'e shown himself a man of more judgment or more honesty. But such language
a~ he usetl, \vhcn it comes from a super)or, is often, with simple men, who doubt their own ca-
pacity to judge, the most persuasive of all arguments.
Although neither .l\latthew, 1\lark nor Luke (in his ~ospeP) speak of Jesus's being seen but
once by lti5 immediate disciples after his denth, yet John says that he was seen by a pa1·t of
them at lhre'! different times. Let us see whether it were so.
[ haYe before said that no number of witnesses, however rC'spectable themselves, and how-
e\'er direct anll positive their testimony, "\vould be sufficient to convince us that any man but Je-
sus ever rose from the dead. Although they were to testify to circumstances, which we should
be unab!c to account for ~n any olher way than by supposing the man to have risen from the
dead, still we should believe, we should know, as absolutely as we can know any thing, that
there was a mistalw or a deception somewhere. In these three cases, related by JohiJ, of Je-
sus's beina seen by his disciples, there is abundant room for mistakes and deception.
Of those numerous pretended l\Iessiahs, who were about in the days of Jesus, it was perfect·
ly natural tltat some one should seck to avail himself of the notoriety which Jesus had acquir-
~d, and of th~ ncldi.tionnl notoriety that might he acquired by assuming his nn.mc, and pretend-
mg to have n~en rrom the dead. Such an one, knowinO' the superstitious character of these
disciplt·s, would see, that if he could disguise himself so-oas to resemble in any degree the per-
son of Je~u~, he could pnss l1imself off to his discip!es as him. This too would be an easy
matter.for lllm to accon;pli~h. ~or they were so superstitious, and so ready and eager to believe
any thmg m.arvellous 1n r~latwn to Jesus, that if they were to see one whose looks or dress
tlJJ hut remmcl t!1em of hun, they could, by persuasion and the power of their imaginations,
b~ brought to beheve what they must have so earnestly desired to believe, viz: that the indi-
vulual \vas re.ally Jesus. If such were the motives, that governed the one, who, at three dif-
fcrenL mtNvJews, a~snmerl t? be Jesus, he then probably found that it would be impossible
lon!!'f'r to keep up the clecept10n, and nP\'er attempted it aO'ain.
'rhP~e is a d.ifft•rent motive that might have induced son·~ one to attempt this deception. The
creuuiJty and 1gnorauc(' of these simple fishermen must have been well known among the
• ln tbP Act!'! (h.t <' ). (if l10. \\"E'Tf' tl~P nuthor of the Acts a~ he is generally supposed to have been) he
rPpres"'n.ts that Je~uc; wns Mf:'n many times-but he was not one of the twelve, and what he he(lrdis good
for notlung Rfl :r-~t1monv.
THE RESURRECTION. 59
more enlightened part of the community. If some one, after having witnessed the delusion
which had led them on before the death of Jesus, should, from n. mere waggish curiosity to
learn the extent to which they might be still further duped, disguiee himself so as to resemble
Jesus so fat· as to recal him to their mind,; when they should see him, aJJd then, ta·l\ing advan-
tag·e ot their flurried imaginations, should stoutly declare himself to be Jesus, the deception,
with such men, would certninly succeed.
It appears that the individual, who had passed himself off as Jesus with the two going to
Emmaus, was the same who afterwards appeared to the oisciples, because Metl'k says (IG-=14)
that he upbraided the eleven fot· not believing those, who had said that they l1ad se~n }lim.- H
then the one, who went to Emmaus, was nn impostor, the one, whom the eleven saw, was also-
and probably his success in duping the two induced him to try the same experiment with the
eleven.
Very little disguise would be sufficient for his purpose-because the eleven were well pre-
pared, by the stories of the women, and of the two, to believe that Jesus was alive. The suc-
cess of the .artifice, at the first interview, was aided also by other circumstances. The time
chosf'!n was the most favorable for the j)lot that could have been selectecl, viz: evening, (John
20-19). The place was favorable, for the doors were shut. '!'he state of their minds, in other
respects tuan t.he one above mentioned, was favorable, for they had assembled ''through fear of
the Jews," and their U1oughts were undoubtedly engrossed by the idea of his being alive-and
they were undoubtedly querying with each othct· whether he were alive; and probably nearly
all had come to the conclusion that he ar.tually was. In the midst of this &tate of things the
man enters, and says, solemnly, "Peace be unto you,"-the best language he could have chosen
to impress their imagi:lations. Soon he repeats, '' Pe-ace be unto you-as my father hath sent
me, even so send I you.'' Then he "brwthed on them! and said receive ye the Holy Gh0st.''
What means such disgusting mummery, unless it were a studied imposition~ Breathing on
them! He then closes the interview by one of the most arrant pieces of humbug that was ever
attempted, viz: by pretending to confer on them power to Jor~ive sins!* a pretence "''hich
probably, at the present day, hardly deceives a single Protestant in all Christendom.
To proceed with the evidence. John says he showed unto them his hands and his side.
John would have us believe, from this language, that the disciples plainly saw the scars or
wounds; yet he does not say absolutely that they did; and if they only saw his hands and his
side, without any scars or wounds, the prevarication would hardly be more palpable than the
one which John was convicted of on a preceding page. But even the story, that he offered to
show. them his scars, is very improbable for several reasons,-such as, in the first place, that it
is not likely that it was necessary, for they would generally believe'him readily enough without
seeing them. In the second place, if he were to s11ow them his hands, he would not be lil<ely
to show them his side-the real Jesus would certainly be able to prove his identity, to men so
ready to believe as they were, without submitting to so critical an examination. A third rea-
son is, that it was probably so dark that they could not have seen the scars even if there were
any-for John says it was in the evening, and that the doors were shut through fear of the
JP.ws. If thP.y were so fearfnl of being discovered by the Jews, they would not be lil~eJy to
have light enough in the room to enable them to detect a. scar on a man's hand.
Eight days after th1s affair, John says (20-26) they were together, probably in the same
place, for he says they were "within," and also that the doors were shut, as before. The in-
dividual comes again, and says to them-as before--" Peace be unto you.~' He then said to
Thomas, "Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust
it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing." 'l'hen, says John, "'"I,homas answered
and said unto him, My Lord, and 1\Iy God." Now here is room again for another of John's
equivocations. He Joes not say that "rhomas actually did examine either his hands or his side-
he only says that the man proposed that he should do so. Thomas, having been half incredu-
lous and half believing, would not be likely, after such a proposal had been made to him, to do
any thing that would imply so mucb doubt, not only of the reality of the person, but also of the
truth of the man's declaration, as, after the offer had been made to him in a tone of confidence,
then to proceed to make the examination in earnest. Probably the man's apparent willingness
to be examined confirmed Thomas in the belief that he was Jesus without any examination-
if so, it would have appeared to him inde<;ent irreverence to make the examination, and he
would be satisfied without rnaldng it, as the others had been.
But supposing he actually did put his hand upon the side, and even suppose (what would not
be very probable) that the side was nal{ed, it is hardly possible that there should have been
snch a scar t.here as that a person, who expected as a matter of course (as Thomas by this time
must have do~e) to.find the scar there, would not be very liable to be deceived in just placing
l1is finger for a moment on a substance so yielding as :flesh. Besides, such a spear as those
used for piercing·the sides of those, who were executed, would undoubtedly be but a small in-
strument, and would leave but a trifling mark, and not such an one as John speal\s of~ into
which a man might "thrust his hand."
*John 20-23. t: vVhosoeYer sins ye remit, they are i;emhtecl unto them, and whosoever sins ye retain
they ate retaiiled,
GO TilE DEIST'S l'tEPLY.
Or ~upposlng th11t Thoma~ tlid go so far as to look at, or feel of, the ~and of the man, and
supposalg- bo nctunlly thd eliscovt..'r some nppenrnnc c of a slight wound there ; w~ must remem·
hL'r thnl 1t ho.tluf"(~n ci~IJt tlny::~ f'incc tills mnn had been seen by the others, and tf he were one
of the !ipuriuu~ ~ll.'ssinhs, nntl tlt•sirrnecl nt this time to attach this sect to him, he would natUl'·
11.lly think thnt sollle new corrnuor~~tinQ" circumstance would at this time be necessary to k~ep
up 1hc UC\'i'ptJon which lte hud practised once, unt.l might ~:>lightly wound his ha n<l so as to gtve
it jusL t'JWII~ h uf the Jt>.;ired appearance to impose on the credulity of a man like Thomas, who
wa~ lllllC·tcnths irnposcd on before.
Tilt' fat:t that the mnn hnt.l nut heen seen for eight dnys is very strong evidence that some
chcul of tiJi:; lnntl wn.:i prnctised on Thomas, if it were true that he examined the hand at alJ-
n cJrcum::.-trtnce, which I Plltirely disbelieve. 1'his whole story of Thomas's examination ofJe-
~us •~ nn e.xcccJiurrly susp"u::ious one. It ia such an one as might be most easily manufactured,
nnd 011C tou \cry a~ccessnry to be manufactured, or otherwise supplied, in order to make out
nny thing ut' <t plausible ca~e in favor of n resurrection.
But t•veu if 'J'homns tlid proceecl to examine both tbe hancl and the side, and even if he found
marl\s there which satisfied him, still, the fact that he made so critical an examination, would
nrg11e most fnrcioly that the personal appearance. of the individual did not well correspond with
that of Jesus, 1:nd, of c~urse, that the 1nnrks were counterfeit. •
There JS still nnother objection to the whole tcstimo•~Y of these alleged scars or wonnds, and
thut is, that if n divine being- were to be restored to life miraculously, it appears a little proba-
ble that he would be restored unblemished, nnd bearing no marie of man's violence, instead of
thu!'! bnnglllg !Jack his scars or wounds with him-otherwise the worh: of restoration would seem
tu ln\'c been bul half performed. Supposing his legs hat.l been broken on the cross, as the legs
ot the others were, would he have come back with broken legs?
John says again that this man was seen by a part of the disciples a third time. This appear-
nnce must have been thirty days or more after the last, if the individual was seen by the rlisci-
J>Ics but thn•e times in all, (and we have none but hearsay evidence to show that he was seen
more thnn three times); because Lul{e says (Acts 1-3) that Jesus was on the earth forty days,
nnt.l the second time that he was seen was only eight days after he was supposed to have risen,
and they could not have known that he wus on the earth forty days, unless they saw him at the
tnd of that time.
'l'h1s individual, whoever he might be, appeared to them standing onthe shore in the morn-
ing, nfter they hnd been fishing through the night, (John 21- 3 and 4). John acknowledges
that when they first saw him on the shore, they did not lmow that the man was Jesus. It is evi-
dent also that, even nrter tbey ltn.d come to him un the shore, they were in doubt a& to the it.!en-
tity of the man, for John says (21-12) that "none of his disciples durst ask him, who art thou?
]wowing thnt it wns the Lord." Now if they knew that it was Jesus, how happened it that
t hey thought of asldng him who be was? yet the fact that they did not dare to ask him, proves
that they desired tCJ ask, or thought of asldng, him ; and the fact that they thought CJf asking,
or desired to ask him, proves tbat they were in doubt. So that here is another case (only one
of many as I believe) where John has attempted to mnkc his story stronger than the truth. He
probably, in years afterward, on recurring to this incident, and dwelling upon it, brought him-
s elf to believe that the man seen wa& Jesus.
There are some good reasons for believing, that John has colored his whole account of this
suppo~ed Jesus much beyond the reality. He was under strong temptation to exaggerate.
His object, as was stated before, in writing his narrative, was to prove thot Jesus was not a
mere mnn. il: It wns important to the progress and dignity of the system that he should prove
this-and it was important also to his own reputation and influence among thq early converts,
because he had undoubtedly always held that doctrine to them. But to e~tablish this fact a
strong story was necessary. Forty years experience, in the labour of convincing men of the
truth of such improbable facts as his system rested on, hnd taught him that a very plausible and
unhesitating story was absolutely necessary to gain credit, and the same experienc:e had taught
him how to tell such a story-and furthermore, many of those stories of his, which differ from
any told by the others, arc of snch a ldn~l as could be easily manufactured from very slight cir-
cumstances. Ile was also a man of a low, contemptible and itching ambition, as is proved by
the facts that he wished to have the promise of sifting next to Jesus in heaven,{or in his king-
dom on earth), (!\lark 10-3.3 to 37), and that he repeatedly pretenrls, by speaking of himself as
"that disciple whom Jesus loved," to have been his favorite over the others-a fact, which I am
not aware that any, but him5elf, ever discovered. A disposition so low, and so cravifl<T of noto-
riety, as this, is almost always associated with a propensity to practice duplicity and de~eption­
nm.l thcr.efure, even if the:e were n.o circumstances, out of his narrative, to oppose his state· _
mcnrs, h1s own character 1s a suffictent reason why we should vot credit a word that he says,
which looks improbable. ·
The testimony of Pnul is (1 Cor. 15-5 to S) that Jesus was once seen hy five hundred at
one~, n.m~ that lastly he wns seen by himself. I contend that it is not at allprouable that even
the tndtvttlunl, who pretended to be Jesus, ever mnde that pretension in the presence of five
; See Letnprierc1
s Diog. Diet.
THE RESURRECTION, 61
hundred, and fo1· these reasons among others, viz: :first, that we have only Paul's word for it,
and as he has, as the reader will recollect, been already convicted of direct falsehood in one
instance,:# of probable falsehood in another, and in another of deliberate deception, which is
equally L'llsehood, though a~complished hy actions instead of words, his wonl is good fo1·
nothing as evidence of any thing improbable-and, second, that, of the four, who pretend to
give the most tninute accounts, which have ever been given, of the life, death, supposed re-
surrection, &c. of Jesus, not one says a word of his having ever been seen by the five hun-
dred, or IJy any except his eleven disciples aud four or five other individuals. John, in par-
ticular, has been ve)'y minute in his account of the several times when the man was seen by
a few persons only, and of the circumstances attending each of those exhibitions, yet he has
said not a word of his being seen by the five hundred, although he would most certainly have
done so (supposing him to have had common sense) if he had kno\vn of any such occur-
rence-and he, from his situation, must have known of it, if it had happened. Perhaps Paul
hem·d that he was seen by that number, and perhaps he did not-it would howeve1· be nothing
improbable that he should hear so, even if there were not the slightest truth in the statenJet'Jt.
Hut supposing that the individual were seen by five hundred persons--we should not then
know whether they believed him to be the real Jesus or not. Even Paul does not go so far
as to say that they did-and, in the absence of further proof, the probability is altogether that
they did not. John says (11-45, 46) that many Jews saw Lazarus raised from the deac, but
also virtually says that a part of them believed that Jesus only attempted to practice a cheat
upon them. · So also some of the Pharisees saw the pretended miracle of restoring the with-
ered hand, but, instead of believing it a miracle, evidently believed it a. hoax. This case of
the 6ve hundred is very lil{ely to have been another or those, where men saw, l>nt did not
believe, and therefore the fact that the individual was seen by five hundred, if such were the
fact, would be worth nothing to prove that that individual was Jesus, unless it be shown also
that the five hundred recognised him as such.
But Paul says also that he him8elf once saw him. Now since all the evidence heretofore
offered of Paul's dishonesty, and of his readiness to assert positively any thing that was
nece~sary for his cause, if it had the slightest foundation in near:say, might go for nothing, in
some men's minds, against the positive declaration of so great an apostle as he, I esteem it
fortunate that he has in this instance, by contradicting his own testimony, saved me the neces-
sity of laboring to do it in any other way than by referring to hi~ own acts. I say therefore,
that he has proved, by his own conduct, that if (what is not very probable) he ever saw the in-
dividual who p1·etended to be Jesus, he did not at the time believe h.im to be him, because, if
he had, he would of course, have been coriverted at once-whereas he was not converted
until long afterwards, nor until lie had been accessary to the murder of Stephen, on account
of his preuching in the name of this same Jesus.
Perhaps Paul might have seen an individual, who pretended to be Jesus, and, though he
did, not at the time, believe him to be the real one, he might nevertheless, after his conversion,
on recurring to the circumstance, have brought himself to a different belief, and then in his
reckless manner declare positively that, which he believed, hut which was nevertheless un-
true. This appears to me the most charitable supposition that the case will admit.
Another circumstance, in addition to those heretofore mentioned, against the fact that
Jesus ever rose from the dead, is, that he is not said, in either of the four gospels, to have
shown himself, even to his most intirilate friends and followers but three times for forty days.
Where was he during all this time? "\tVhere is it possible that the real Jesus could have
kept himself so long concealed?
Another circumstance, and one of the strongest character, against the same fact, is, that
he did not show himself to the world. Could any man be so destitute of common sense, as
to suppose that reasonable men would believe that a corpse came to life, on the bare assertion
of those ignorant fishermen, w ho had all along been viewed, by the most enlightened part of
the community, as deluded fanatics?-and that too, when no good reason could be imagined
why, if the man were really alive, he should not exhibit himself personally?
Every motive of duty, and every argument of expediency would seem to have conspired
to induce this man to show himself to the world, if he were alive-yet he did not. Is it
possible for the ingenuity of man to conceiv.e of a reason why he should remain on the earth
forty days, unless it were for the express purpose of exhibiting himself openly, and thus
furnishing as much testimony as possible, for the benefit of succeeding generations,· of the
reality of his resurrection?
But the different accounts given by these narrators are sufficient to show that there were
various and disagreeing stories afloat even among those who had been his most immediate
nnd confidential followers, as well respecting his resurrection aod ascension, as about his-acts
bef01·e his death. For example, Luke, in his chapter on the resurrection, (the 24th), says
nothing of Jesus having but one interview with his disciples, and he says (24-50 & 51) that
(manifestly at the close of this first interview) "he led them out as far as to Bethany, and
be lifted up his hands, and blessed them. And it came to pass while he blessed them, he
was parted from them, and carried up into heaven." This is a manifest contradiction of his
*Sec Chaptet 1st, on the Spread of Chrlstiat1ity.
'
62 THE DEIST'S llEPLY.
declaratiou, in the first chapter of Acts, that Jesus was on the earth forty days. ~lark also,
immediately after detailing the particulars of the first and only interYiew, of which he speaks
as havincr been had by Jesus with his disciples, says (16-19) "so then, after the Lord bad
spoken ~nto them, he was received up into heaven, and set on the right hand of God."
These representations contradict the story of John, who says that he was seen once eight
days a~ter the first i~1te1:vi~w, and again after t~at time. Again-1\latthew does not spe:tk of
his bemg seen ,by Ius d1Sc1ples but once after h1s death-John says he was seen three tunes.
Further-more :Mathew and John say not a word about his going up into heaven, althoucrh
they most assuredly would have done so, if they hnd seen him, and l\lark and Luke •·epl~e­
sent them to have seen him. Such differences of testimony show that the1·e were unfounded
reports in circulation about him, and believed among those who ought to have known the
truth and the whole t1·uth; that these reports differed materially from each other; that there-
fore no confidence is to be placed in any of them, and that we, of course, are without evi-
dence that can be relied on.
There is another circum::;tance, which, of itself alone, ought to decide this question, in
opposition to all the evidence together that can be found on the other side. It is this, that at
the only interview, which Matthew (28-16 & 17) represents this supposed Jesus to have had
with the eleven, who bad .bc~n. his immediate and confidential followers, a part of those very
elwen doubted whethe1· the wdundual -were he. If any one of these eleven~ a!ter having once
been an implicit believer in Jesus, efter having been reminded of the intimations that Jesus
had given that he should die and rise again, after knowing that the body was missing from
the sepulchre, after having heard the stories of the women who had been to the sepulchre,
and of lhe two going to Emmaus, after having gone "iuto a mountain where Jesus had ap-
pointed" with the e:rpectation of meeting him, would then, on seeing the individual, doubt,
while the •·est believf:'d, it is madness, it is the height of superstitious folly, for us to believe,
on such testimony, that an individual rose from the dead.
I will mention another circumstance bearing upon this point-one very insiunificant nnd
unimportant standing alone, but which, considered in relation to the resurrection of Jesus,
must, it appears to me, if men have a spark of reason in judging of this qGestion, put an ex-
tinrruisher upon the last pretence that he ever rose from the dead.
.fohn says (20-1 to 7) that he himself(" the disciple whom Jesus laved" is the language
used) was the first one of the disciples, and undoubtedly the first person, who IM'rived at the
sepulchre after 1\fary had told them that the stone was rolled away from the door-and he
says that" the napkin, which was about his head, was not l.lJing with the linen clothes, but
was wrapped logelher in a place by itself." Did Jesus, when rising from the dead, leave n part
of his grave clothes in one place, and a part in nnother. Did he stop to wrap up and lay aside
this napkin? or wns it done by some ..one, who carried, or assisted in carrying away the body?
vVhich is the most probable? If a chimney sweep were to rise from the dead, he would no
more think of wrapping 1lp and laying aside the napkin that had been about his head: than he
would of waiting in the tomb for his breakfast. Dut if the Son or God, or a Saviour of a.
world, or any such being, when rising from the «lead to '' bring hfe and immortality to light,"
should do an act of this kind, such au incident woulu present the most remarkable illustration,
that the world ever furnished, of the truth of the adnge, that "there is but a step between
the sublime and the ridiculous."
Finally, the fact that no one of the eleven ever knew what became of this individual, lvlwm
they supposed to be Jesus, is invincible evJdence that he did not rise from the d<'ad. 'Tis not
a question to be argued, whether a Son of God, or a man who had risen from the dead, would
have served his friends and followers the trick, which this man did the disciples, of going off
and leaving them forever, without letting them l<now where he had gone.
3477-134
ss
