{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 9129 8306 3806","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_8_july_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 July 8 1889","mylang":"de"}
1889.] The Otm8U8 ofHaUucinations.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
July 8th, 1889.
7
The thirty-third General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Hall, on July 8th, 1889.
THE PRESIDENT, PROI'B880R SIOOWICK, IN THE CHAIR.
The programme consisted of an address by the President, and a
paper by Mr. F. W. H. Myers on "Recognised Apparitions
Occurring more than a Year after Death," both of which are printed
below.
II.
ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT ON
THE CENSUS OF HALLUCINATIONS.
It is known to all members and associates of the Society for
Psychical Research-at least to all who read this journal-that an
attempt is being made 011 a large scale to obtain as accurate statistics
"as possible relative to the frequency, the specific nature, and-so far
as may be-the causes of what I will briefly call Hallucinations.
The scale on which we are planning our census of Hallucinations
is an ambitious one: it must be an ambitious one if we are to succeed
in our aim; I do not think we can be satisfied with less than 50,000
answers to the first and most general question tba.t we are asking;
and if we are to get 50,000 answers, we want a great deal more assis-
tance than we have as yet got.
I wish to express my gratitude, and the gratitude of th08(l who are
working with me, to the members and others who are aiding us in this
toilsome task; at the same time, I wish to urge on all members and
associates who have not yet offered aid that this is eminently a task for
co-operative labour, in which everyone interested iu Psychical Research
ought to take a share. A copy of the single question that we wish to
be asked in all cases has beeu sent to every member and associate,
with spaces for 25 answers; we shall be happy to send any more copies
to anyone who will a.pply for them; and if every member and associate
would only collect a single batch of twenty-five answers, and
persuade some one friend to collect another batch, we should get in
this way over 30,000 answers and should have no doubt of being able
to make up our 50,000.
I fear, however, that it is too much to expect this universal
co-operation. I hope, therefore, that every zealous person will collect,
either personally or by friends, as many batches as possible. And I
Digitized by Google
8 The Oens'UB of HaUucinations. [July 8,
may add that we shall equally welcome assistance from persons who
are not members or associates. I ought to add that we have carefully
framed our question so that we may fairly ask for co-operation from
persons of all opinions; it does not imply either belief or disbelief in
the reality of ghosts, or in telepathy, or in any other explanation of the
phenomena inquired into. It runs as follows: "Have you ever,
when believing yourself to be completely awake, had a vivid impression
of seeing or being touched by a living being or inanimate o~iect, or of
hearing a voice, which impression, so far as you could discover, was
not due to an external physical cause 7" I hope it will be seen how
impartially the question has been framed. The most bigoted Materialist
does not deny that certain persons have the imprel!sions here described;
the most convinced Spiritualist does not usually attribute them to an
" external physical cause."
This ll'.ads me to say a word on the general term used to denote
these experiences. We require some one general term, and the best
that we can find to include all the species is "Hallucination." I
admit the word to be open to some objection; because some people
naturally understand from it t.hat the impression so described is
entirely false and morbid. But I need not say to readers of
" Phantasms" that this is not our view: many of these experiences-
though doubtless they all involve some disturbance of the normal
action of the nervous system-have no traceable connection with
disease of any kind: a.nd a certain number of them are, as we hold,
reasonably regarded as "veridical" or truth-telling; they imply in
the percipient a capacity above the normal of receiving knowledge,
under certain rare conditions.
Why, then, it may be asked, do we use a term that implies
erroneous and illusory belief1 I answer, first, because in every experi-
ence that we call a Hallucination there is an element of erroneous
belief, though it may be only momentary, and though it may be the
means of communicating a truth that could not otherwise have been
known. If I seem to see the form of a friend pass through my room,
I must have momentarily the false belief that his physical organism is
occupying a portion of the space of my room, though a moment's re1l.ection
may convince me that this is not so, and though I may immediately
draw the inference that he is passing through a crisis of life some miles
off, and this inference may tum out to be true. In the case of a
recurrent Hallucination known to be such, we cannot say that the
false belief ever completely dominates the percipient's mind; but still, I
conceive, it is partially there j here is an appearance that bas to be
resisted by memory and judgment.
It' is, then, this element of error-perhaps only momentary and
partial-which is implied in our term "Hallucination," and so much
Digitized by Google
1889.] The Ce718U8 of Halluci'natiom.
will be admitted by most intelligent believers in ghosts: for there are
few of such believers who really hold that a ghost is actually seen as
an ordinary material object is seen: i.e., that it affects the percipient's
eyes from the outside by redecting rays of light on them. But we wish
even those ghost-seers who hold this belief to have no difficulty in answer-
ing "Yes" to our general question: and therefore in framing it we
avoided the word co Hallucination," though we have thought ourselves
justified in using it in the " Instructions to Collectors" at the back of
the paper.
And all would certainly admit that in many cases "Hallucination"
is the only proper term. For instance, one of our informants saw a
hand and arm apparently suspended from the ceiling-the owner of
the real counterpart of this hand and arm being alive and heard at the
time moving about in the next room.
The word" apparition" is, no doubt, a neutral word that might be
used of all visual experiences of this kind; but it could only be used of
visual cases. Usage would not allow us to apply it to apparent sounds
orapparent touches.
I think, then, that we must use "hallucinations of the senses" as a
general term for the experiences we are collecting: meaning simply to
denote by it a sensory effect which we cannot attribute to any external
physical cause of the kind that would ordinarily produce this effect.
In some cases we can refer it clearly to 0. physical cause within the
organism-some temporary or permanent physica.l condition. In other
cases-quite apart from telepathy-it is equally clear that the cause is
primarily psychical. For instance, in the case of persons who have
been hypnotised, it may result from a post-hypnotic order. Thus in an
article by Mr. Gurney, in Proceedings, Part XII., pp. 12, 13, there is an
interesting account of the result of a. suggestion made by him' to a
subject named ZijIah in the hypnotic trance, that she would have a
hallucination of him at a certain fixed time on the following day; and
there is a letter from Zillah's mistress describing the surprise caused
to Zillah by seeing Mr. Gurney come into the kitchen and say "Good-
afternoon," at the appointed time. Here we can trace the origin of the
idea which thus externalised itself. In other cases, as with the arm
above mentioned, the idea arises spontaneously by association or other-
wise in the mind. In other cases, again, the idea which thus externalises
itself may, as we believe, come into the mind from the mind of a
person at a distance-the idea of " dying friend reaching us from his
mind and rising above the threshold of consciousness in the form of a
hallucination, just as the idea of Mr. Gurney rose above the
threshold of consciousness in Zillah's case in the form of a hallucination.
A link between the two is afforded by those rare and interesting
cases, of which several have been recorded in the publications of our
Digitized by Google
10 The C6'n8'U8 of HaUucinations. [July 8:
Society, where one person is able from a distance and by a mental pro-
cess alone to cause an apparition of himself to another. We have reason
to think that the resulting sensory effect is in all these cases essentia.lly
the same, though the cause of it is very different in different cases ; and,
therefore, in the present state of our knowledge, it seems best to apply
the term "hallucination" to all.
I have dwelt thus long upon the use of the word hallucination-
because the discussion brings out incidentally the importance of
making the statistical inquiry we are engaged in as to the kind of
hallucinations that occur, and the proportion of people that experience
them. It is clear from what we have said that the subject of hallu-
cinations is of importance to psychologists and physiologists, for whom
they throw light on the workings of the mind and senses. And it is
also of some practical use to inquire into them with a view to dispelling
the alarm they frequently cause. But it is for those interested in
Psychical Research that they are at present most important-a.nd that
whether they are supporters or opponents. For those who believe in
telepathy it is of course very important to study as completely as
possible the mode in which, as it appears, telepathica.1ly imparted ideas
are apt to manifest themselves. But, apart from this, it is absolutely
necessary, in order to prove that the hallucinations of dying persons
are really connected with their death, to form some idea of the relative
frequency of such hallucinations compared with those which do not
correspond with any external event. Apparitions of living persons
when nothing seemingly is happening tQ them are common-much
commoner than veridical ones. Mr. Gurney ca.1culated that, if a man
saw an apparition of his friend, he would be justified in assuming the
chance that his friend had died within an hour of that time as about
1 in 40. If this conc~usion be correctly drawn from adequate data, we
need not feel extremely alarmed about our friend if we see his apparition;
though, at the same time, the frequency of the coincidence is very far
beyond what chance would give. But it has been doubted whether the
number of answers which Mr. Gurney collected-5,700--is sufficient
to give accurately thc proportion of the popUlation who have seen
apparitions; and ?tlr. Gurney himself considered it quite insufficient
to determine the proportion of coincidental to non-eoincidental cases.
To arrive at this he endeavoured to form an estimate of the size of
the circle from which our veridical cases are drawn. This is necessarily
extremely uncertain, and though I think the estimate given in
P/w,ntasTn8 is probably in excess of the truth and therefore allows
a margin against the telepathic hypothesis, this view has not been
taken by critics of that work, some of whom think that the circle has
not been assumE'<l lal'ge enough. At any rate we should all agree with
the critics in thinking that it would be much better if we could
Digitized by Google
1889.] The Ce'nB'UB of Hallucinations. 11
dispense with conjecture altogether and know the experiences of a
sufficient number of persons to enable us to tell from the statistics
alone what proportion of the population have hallucinations and what
proportion of these are coincidental. If we can collect 50,000 answers
I think we could do this, but the coincidental cases are too rare for us
to rely on a smaller number.
[Some account of the progress of the census so far was here given.
An account of the answers received up to October 24th, 1889, will be
found in the Supplement.]
I have tried to show that all the phenomena to which our question
relates-veridical or not-should be called hallucinations. I must,
however, admit that it is not very easy to draw the line unmistakably
between what is a hallucination and what is not. The difficulty meets
us in all directions. For instance, are sounds heard in a so-called
haunted house hallucinations or are they real sounds1 This question
would be answered di1Ierently by different persons, and it was because
we felt that hopeless ambiguity would be introduced into our results
by including noises as distinct from voices that we limited our inquiry
in auditory experiences to voices. But the difficulty of drawing
the line is not thus entirely avoided. It is often difficult to decide on
the degree of externalisation of an experience both in visual and
auditory cases. For instance, it may be asked-how does a vivid
visual impression seen with the eyes shut count, and ho~ does this
differ from an apparition seen in the dark 1 Or again, how far is the
kind of experience which is sometimes described as an internal voice,
or as a soundless sound, an auditory hallucination 1 I do not think
that in fact there is any sharp line between such a mental image as
most of us can ca.ll up and a genuine hallucination-experiences of all
degrees of externalisation occur between the two. There are some
which we have no hesitation in calling hallucinations and some which
we can equally confidently say are not, but there are some which it is
difficult to decide about. As regards these, I would say to those who
answer our question--put down either yes or a query, and give details,
leaving to the Committee who will have to analyse the results the
burden of deciding how they should be classed.
One other point of doubt about our question may here be men-
tioned. We determined to secure as far as possible that our answers
should be the bond fide answers of grown-up people by asking the
question only of people who have attained the age of 21. But we
did not mean by this, as has been understood in some cases, to
exclude experiences which had occurred to those answering at any age.
Again some collectol"S have asked me whether uneducated people
may be included in the census. There is no objection to this-indeed
I think it desirable to include all classes-but collectors will find
Digitized by Google
12 The Oe'MU8 of Hallucin.a.tions. [July 8,
that a good deal of care and trouble must be taken to make sure
that uneducated people quite understand the question.
I have kept to the last the most important of the special points to
which I wish to draw attention. It is not only necessary, as I have
said, that our census shall be sufficiently extensive, but it is also of
fundamental importance that it shall be impartial, that the collector
should not yield to any bias in favour of collecting either positive or
negative answers. It is, of course, natural that the collector should be
more interested in obtaining experiences of the positive kind, and it is,
of course, very probable that when it is known in his circle of friends
and acquaintances that he is making this collection, that cases of such
experiences should be mentioned to him. It is, however, obvious that
if answers to() which he is directed in this way were simply included in
his list without any special mark, the impartiality of the result would
be fundamentally vitiated. In order to guard against this danger,
and at the same time not to lose any information which might have an
important value for our inquiry, we advise all our collectors when they
send in their lists, to put a cross against any answer the nature of which
was known to them through information received before they asked the
question.
Digitized by Google
1889.] On &cognised .Apparition8. 13
III.
ON RECOGNISED APPARITIONS OCCURRING MORE
THAN A YEAR AFTER DEATH.l
By F. W. H. MYERS.
The last Part of these Proceeding. included an exposition,-begun
by the late Mr. Edmund Gurney and completed by myself,-of the
principal cases in our possession where an apparition occurring soon
after the death of the person figured seems plausibly referable to some
other than a merely subjective origin i-seems, in fact, to have been
l&epathic or veridical,~ real communication from some mind outside
the percipient's own. In choosing these cases a line was drawn at a
year after death;_ line partly arbitrary, but partly determined by
the fact that after that lapse of time recognised apparitions with even
a primd facie claim to be classed as veridical, become exceedingly rare.
They are rare, and they are in many ways perplexing; but it is
nonl:! the less our duty to discuss them. Inconclusive when considered
by themselves, they are full of instruction when we compare them with
. the larger groups which include apparitions at or shortly after death.
The momentous step, of course, is already taken so soon as we
consent to refer any poBt-mor~ apparition,~ating even from the
morrow of the death,-to the continued agency of the decedent. Few
readers will question the assumption that in that unknown journey
ce n'ut que Ie premier pas qui co!Ue.
And since we are standing here on the threshold of new per-
plexities, let us pause for a moment and consider what is the
phenomenon which we are looking for,-what connotation we are to
give to the word "ghost,"-a word which has embodied so many
unfounded theories and causeless fears. It would be more satisfactory,
in the present state of our knowledge, simply to collect facts without
offering speculative comment. But it seems safer to begin by briefly
pointing out the manifest errors of the traditional view; since that
1 The papers in th_ ProceedifIQ' which deal with evidence aim rather at setting
forth that evidence accurately and impartially than at expressing-what is compara-
tively unimportant-the precise degree of belief at which the writer hiulself may
have arrived. But in th_ papers on posthumous apparitiODB the hypothe888
discuIsed are at once 80 momentous and 80 disputable that it seems well to repeat here
the notice prefixed to all th_ Proceeding., and to remind the reader that I am not
speaking &8 the mouthpiece of my colleagues in the Council of the S.P.R. Variou8
converging linea of evidence have led me individually to think it probable that in lOme
at 1
. . of the cases here cited there has been a real agency of deceased persons. But
no one e1ae is reeponaible for that opinion; nor do I even claim that the evidence
cited is enough to prove ita truth.
Digitized by Google
On Recogniaed Apparitions occu/rring [July 8,
tradition, if left unnoticed, would remain lodged in the background
even of many minds which have never really accepted it.
Briefly, then, the popular view regards a "ghost" as a ckceased
pentm permitted by Provickncs to hold communication with survivor,.
And this short definition contains, I think, at least three unwarrantable
assumptions. .
In the first place, such words as permiBBion and Provickncs are
simply neither more nor less applicable to this phenomenon than to
any other. We conceive that all phenomena alike tak.e place in
accordance with the laws of the universe ;-and consequently by
permission of the Supreme Power in the universe. Undoubtedly the
phenomena with which we are dealing are in this sense permitted to
occur. But there is no apriori reason whatever for assuming that
they are permitted in any especial sense of their own, or that they form
exceptions to law, instead of being exemplifications of law. Nor is
there any aposteriori reason for thus supposing,-any such inference
deducible from a study of the phenomena themselves. If we attempt
to find in these phenomena any poetical justice, or manifest adaptation
to human cravings, we shall be just as much disappointed as if we
endeavoured to find a similar satisfaction in the ordinary course of
terrene history.
In the second place, we have no warrant for the assumption that
the phantom seen, even though it be somehow cau,ed by a deceased
person, is that deceased person, in any ordinary sense of the word.
Instead of appealing to the crude analogy of the living friend who,
when he has walked into the room, is in the room, we shall find for the
ghost Ilo much closer parallel in those hallucinatory figures or phantasms
which living persons can sometimes project at a distance. When
Baron von Notzing, for instance, caused by an effort of will
an apparition of himself to a waking percipient, out of sight, he was
himself awa.ke and conscious in the pla.ce where, not his phantom but
his body stood. Whatever, then, that phantom waI,-however
generated or conditioned,-we cannot say that it was himtJe1/. And
equally unjustifiable must be the common parlance which speaks of the
ghost as though it were the decedent himself-a revenant coming back
amongst living men.
All this, of course, will be already familiar to most of my readers,
and only needs repetition here because experience shows that when-as
with these post-mortem phantoms-the decedent has gone well out of
sight or reach, there is a fresh tendency (so to say) to anthrO[X»norpl'iBe
the apparition; to suppose that, as the decedent is not provably
anywhere else, he is probably here; and that the apparition is bound
to behave accordingly. All such assumptions must be dismissed, and
the phantom must be taken on its merits,-as indicating merely a
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 15
certain connection with the decedent, the precise nature of that
connection being a part of the problem to be solved.
And in the third place, just as we cease to say that the phantom iB
the decedent, so also must we cease to ascribe to the phantom the
motives by which we imagine that the decedent might be swa.yed. We
must therefore exclude from our definition of a ghost any words which
assume its intention to communicate with the living. It ma.y bear
such a relation to the decedent that it can reflect or represent his
presumed wish to communicate, or it may not. If, for instance, its
relation to his post-mortem life be like the relation of my dreams to my
earthly life, it may represent little that is truly his, save such vague
memories and instincts as give a dim individuality to each man's trivial
dreams.
Let us attempt, then, a truer definition. Instead of describing a
"ghost" as a dead person permitted to communicate with the living,
let us define it as a manifestation 0/perBiBtent perfJO'Tl,(J}. energy,-or as
an indication that some kind of force is being exercised after death
which is in some way connected with a person previously known on
earth. In this definition we have eliminated, as will be seen, a great
mass of popular assumptions. Yet we must introduce a further
proviso, lest our definition still seem to imply an assumption which we
have no right to make. It is theoretically possible that this force or
influence which, after a man's death, creates a phantasmal impression
of him, may indicate no continuing action on his part, but may be some
residue of the force or energy which he generated while yet alive.
There may be veridical after-images :-such as Mr. Gurney hints at
(Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 417), when in his comments on the recurring
figure of an old woman ;-seen on the bed where she was murdered,-
he remarks that this figure suggests "not so much any continuing local
action on the part of the deceased person, as the survival of a mere
image, impressed, we cannot guess how, on we cannot guess what, by
that person's physical organism, and perceptible at times to those
endowed with some cognate form of sensitiveness."
Strange as this notion may seem, it is strongly suggested by many
of the cases of haunting which do not fall within the scope of the
present paper. It will be remembered that Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on
Phanta8m8 of tM Dead brought out the fact that there is strong
evidence for the recurrence of the same hallucinatory figures in
the same localities, but weak evidence to indicate any purpose in
most of these figures, or any connection with bygone individuals, or
with such tragedies as are popularly supposed to start a ghost on its
career. In some of these cases of frequent, meaningless recurrence
of a figure in a given spot, we are driven to wonder whether it can
be lOme decedent's past frequentation of that spot, rather than any
Digitized by Google
16 On .Recognised Apparit';'o'n8 occtl/rring [July 8,
fresh action of his after death, which has generated what I have
termed the veridical after-image,-veridical in the sense that it com-
municates information, previously unknown to the percipient, as to a
former inhabitant of the haunted locality.
Such are BOme of the questions which our evidence suggests. And
I may point out that the very fact that such bizarre problems should
present themselves at every turn does in a certain sense tend to show
that these apparitions are not purely sUbjective things,-do not
originate merely in the percipient's imagination. For they are not like
what any man would have imagined. What man's mind tends to fancy
on such topics may be seen in the endleBB crop of fictitious ghost-stories j
-which furnish, indeed, a curious proof of the persistence of pre-
.conceived notions. For they go on being framed according to canons
of their own, and deal with a set of imaginary phenomena quite
different from those which actually occur. The actual phenomena, I
may add, could scarcely be made romantic. One true " ghost-story "
is apt to be very like another j-and all to be fragmentary and
apparently meaningleBB. Their meaning, that is to say, lies in their
conformity, not to the mythopreic instinct of mankind, which fabricates
and enjoys the fictitious tales, but to BOme unknown law, not based on
human sentiment or convenience at all.
And thus, absurdly enough, we BOmetimes hear men ridicule the
phenomena which actually do happen, simply because those phenomena
do not suit their preconceived notions of what ghostly phenomena
ought to be j-not perceiving that this very divergence, this very
unexpectedness, is in itself no slight indication of an origin outaUk the
minds which obviouslywere BOfar from anticipating anything of the kind.
All this needs to be remembered before we approach the special
cases which form the subject of this paper. For the narratives on
which we shall now have to dwell are precisely those which do the most
nearly correspond to the popular view of what a ghost should be. They
are cases, at any rate, where the figure was recognised, and in BOme of
which there was an apparent object in its apPearance. It is, of course,
not the emotional but the evidential value of these recognitions which
interests us here. The identification of a figure previously unknown,
or of a previously known figure under certain conditions, is naturally a
point de "pere of first-rate evidential importance.
Two main points have to be made clear in every such case. Firstly,
we have to assure ourselves that the apparition was really veridical,-
not a mere subjective hallucination, or a trick of memory, or a hoax.
And, secondly, we have to make sure that it was really recognised;-
that BOme kind of link existed between the phantasm and BOme
deceased person. Some kind of link we demand j but what that link
may be,-in wha.t sense the ghost represents the decedent,-this is our
Digitized by Google
1889.] .More than a Year after Death. 17
most perplexing question. And in order to get what light we can on
this point, it will be well to arrange our cases in what may be called a
descending scale of personality i-beginning with those where there
seems to be an intelligent purpose in the phantom; then giving those
where there seems to be a. purpose, but not in our sense an intelligent
one; and lastly, taking those where no purpose is discernible, but the
whole manifestation seems like a dead man's incoherent dream.
The difficulties and weaknesses of the evidence will be pointed out
as we proceed. And finally we may discuss, by the aid of such
analogies as we possess, what are the least improbable conjectures
which we can form as to the nature of these phantoms, and what light
our evidence throws upon any theory of po8t-mortem existence.
I. Let us begin, then, with phantoms raised, so to say, to their
highest power i-apparently showing intelligence, and knowledge of
earthly matters. Are there any grounds, we may in the first place ask,
for the popular notion that ghosts may possess more knowledge of
things on earth than survivors possess 7 Especially tha.t they come to
warn of death or disaster which for men on earth is still hidden in
obscurity 1 Or can they discern physical dangers,-robbers, precipices,
or the like,-which the living man fails to see 1 and do they ever
intervene to guide or protect him 7
It will be seen that we ha.ve very little evidence which points to
such powers as these. I will begin with th~ most striking case ;-one
which was sent in 1887 to the American S.P.R. Professor Royce and
Mr. Hodgson vouch for the high character and good position of the
informants; and it will be seen that, besides the percipient himself, his
father and brother are first-hand witnesses as regards the most
important point i-the effect produced by a certain symbolic item in
the phantom's aspect.
I.-From Mr. F. G., Boston.
January 11th, 1888.
Sm.-Replying to the recently published request of your Society for
actual occurrences of psychical phenomena. I respectfully submit the fol-
lowing remarkable occurrence to the consideration of your distinguished
Society, with the assurance that the event made a more powerful impreBSion
on my mind than the combined incidents of my whole life. I have never
mentioned it outside of my family and a few intimate friends, knowing well
that few would believe it, or else ascribe it to some disordered state of my
mind at the time, but I well know I never was in better health or
poasessed a clearer head and mind than at the time it occurred.
In 1867, my only sister, a young lady of 18 years, died suddenly of
cholera, in St. Louis, Mo. My attachment for her was very strong. and the
blow a severe one to me. A year or 80 after her death, the writer became a
commercial traveller, and it was in 1876 while on one of my Western trips
that the event occurred.
c
Digitized by Google
18 On Recognised Apparitions occ'U/rring [July 8,
I had " drummed II the city of St. Joaeph, Mo., and had gone to my
room at the Pacific House to send in my orders, which were unusually large
ones, 80 that I was in a very happy frame of mind indeed. My thoughts, of
course, were about these orders, knowing how pleased my house would be at
my success. I had not been thinking of my late sister, or in any manner
reflecting on the past. The hour was high noon, and the sun was shining
cheerfully into my room. While busily smoking a cigar, and writing out my
orders, I suddenly became conscious that lOme one was sitting on my left,
with one arm resting on the table. Quick as a flash I turned and distinctly
saw the form of my dead sister, and for a brief second or so looked her
squarely in the face ; and 80 sure was I that it was she, that I sprang forward
in delight, calling her by name, and, as I did 80, the apparition instantly
vanished. Naturally I was startled and dumbfounded, almoat doubting my
senses ; but the cigar in my mouth, and pen in hand, with the ink still moist
on my letter, I satisfied myself I had not been dreaming and was wide awake.
I was near enough to touch her, had it been a physical possibility, and noted
her features, expression, and details of dress, &C. She appeared as if alive.
Her eyes looked kindly and perfectly natural into mine. Her skin was 80
life-like that I could see the glow or moisture on its surface, and, on the
whole, there was no change in her appearance, otherwise than when alive.
Now comes the moat remarkable COf\firmation of my statement, which
cannot be doubted by those who know what I state actually occurred. This
visitation, or whatever you may call it, 80 impressed me that I took the next
train home, and in the presence of my parents and others I related what
had occurred. My father, a man of rare good sense and very practical, was
inclined to ridicule me, as Ite laW how earnestly I believed what I stated ;
but he, too, was amazed when later on I told them of a bright red line or
IlCratM on the right-hand side of my sister's face, which I distinctly had
seen. When I mentioned this, my mother rose trembling to her feet and
nearly fainted away, and as soon as she sufficiently recovered her self-
posaeaaion, with tears streaming down her face, she exclaimed that I had
indeed seen my sister, as no living mortal but herself wasaware ofthat scratch,
which she had accidentally made while doing lOme little act ofkindness after
my sister's death. She said she well remembered how pained she was to
think she should hav6, unintentionally, marred the features of her dead
daughter, and that unknown to all, how she had carefully obliterated all
traces of the slight scratch with the aid of powder, &c., and that she had
never mentioned it to a human being, from that day to this. In proof, neither
my father nor any of our family had detected it, and positively were unaware
of the incident, yet I BaW the IlCratM as bright as if just made. So strangely
impressed was my mother that even after she had retired to relt, she got up
and dressed, came to me and told me Me knew at least that I had seen my
sister. A few weeks later my mother died, happy in her belief she would
rejoin her favourite daughter in a better world.
In a further letter Mr. F. G. adds :-
There was nothing of a spiritual or ghostly nature in either the form or
-dress of my sister, she appearing perfectly natural, and dressed in clothing
that she usually wore in life, and which was familiar tome. From her position
.At the table, I could only see her j1'Of1/, the waut up, and her appearance
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 19
and everything ahe wore is indelibly photographed in my mind. I even had
time to notice the collar and little breastpin she wore, as well &8 the comb in
her hair, after the style then worn by young ladies. The dress had no
particular &BBOci&tion for me or my mother, no more 80 than others she W&8 in
the habit of wearing ; but to-day, while I hmIe forgotten all Mr otMr df'UlU,
pi''"'' and combs, I could go to her trunk (which we have just &8 she left it)
and pick out the very dress and ornaments she wore when she appeared to
me, 80 well do I remember it.
You are correct in understanding that I returned home earlier than I had
intended, &8 it had such an effect on me that I could hardly think of any
other matter ; in fact, I abandoned a trip that I had barely commenced, and,
ordinarily, would have remained on the road a month longer.
Mr. F. G. a.gain writes to Mr. Hodgson, Ja.nuary 23rd, 1888:-
As per your request, I enclose a letter from my father which is indorsed by
my brother, confirming the statement I made to them of the apparition I had
aeen. I will add that my father is one of the oldest and most respected
citizens of St. Louis, Mo., a retired merchant, whose winter residence is at
--, Ills., a few miles out by rail. He is now 70 years of age, but a
remarkably well-preserved gentleman in body and mind, and a very learned
man, as well. As I informed you, he is slow to believe things that rea.aon
cannot explain. My brother, who indorses the statement, h&8 resided in
Boston for 12 years, doing busineB8 on --street, as per letter-head above,
and the last man in the world to take stock in statements without good proof.
The others who were present (including my mother) are now dead, or were
then 80 young as to now have but a dim remembrance of the matter.
You will note that my father refers to the "scratch," and it was this that
puzzled all, even himself, and which we have never been able to account for,
further than that in lOme mysterious way I had actually seen my sister nin!'
years after death, and had particularly noticed and described to my parents
and family this bright red scratch, and which, beyond all doubt in our minds,
waa unknown to a 80ul save my mother, who had accident&lly caused it.
When I made my statement, all, of course, listened and were interested ;
but the matter would probably have passed with comments that it was a freak
of memory, had not I asked about the scratch, and the instant I mentioned it,
my mother was aroused as if she had received an electric shock, as she had
kept it secret from all, and 8M alone W&8 able to explain it. My mother was
a sincere Christian lady, who was for 25 years superintendent of a large
infant class in her church, the Southern Methodist, and a directress in many
charitable institutions, and was highly educated. No lady at the time stood
higher in the city of St. Louis, and she was, besides, a woman of rare good
Bense.
I mention these points to give you an insight into the character and
standing of those whose testimony, in such a case, is necesasry.
(Signed) F. G.
From Mr. H. G.
--, Ills., Jamtary 20th, 1888.
DBAR F.,-Yours of 16th inst. is received. In reply to your questionl!l
relating to your having seen our Annie, while at St. Joseph, Mo., I will state
02
Digitized by Goo~
20 On R£cognised Apparitions occurring [July 8,
that I well remember the statement you made to family on your return home.
I remember your stating how she looked in ordinary home dress, and
particularly about the scratch (or red spot) on her face, which you could not
account for, but which was fully explained by your mother. The spot was
made while adjusting something about her head while in the casket, and
covered with powder. All who heard you relate the phenomenal sight
thought it was true. You well know how sceptical I am about things which
reason cannot explain. Affectionately,
(Signed) H. G. (father).
I was present at the time and indorse the above.
(Signed) K. G. (brother).
The apparent redness of the scratch on the face of the apparition
goes naturally enough with the look of life in the face. The phantom
did not appear as a corpse, but as a blooming girl, and the scratch
showed as it would have shown if made during life.
This symbol, in its essential point,-the manifestation in a phantom
of a change in personal appearance which the percipient had no oppor-
tunity of observing during life,-may be compared with the "Newgate
fringe" grown before death by Lieutenant B. (Proceedings, Vol. V.,
p. 470), and observed by General Barter in Lieutenant B.'s phantom.
But it can seldom happen that the aspect of a near relation can furnish
an evidential indication so distinct as this. Even assuming an
intelligent purpose in the phantom, one does not see what could in
most cases be represented beyond a mere likeness of the deceased; and
a mere likeness of a known face must always be lia'ble to be taken for
a purely subjective hallucination. The death of the mother in this
case, a few weeks after the apparition, is noteworthy. If the apparition
had been delayed there would have been no one left on earth who was
capable of interpreting its symbolism. We may therefore class this as
a case in which it is possible,-though not, of course, provable,-that
the decedent was aware of the approaching death of a survivor. If
the incident is correctly recorded, or if it is not a mere extraordinary
coincidence, it certainly seems probable that recognition was intelli-
gently aimed at.
In the next case the ghost is seen by several persons, and it moves
into a room where the decedent's sister is lying on her death-bed.
There is, therefore, an indication of knowledge of earthly events,-but
not of an earlier or fuller knowledge than survivors themselves possess.
II.-From Miss Pearson, 15, Fitzroy-square, W.O.
April, 1888.
The house, 19, St. James's-place, Green Park, had been taken on a very
long lease by my grandfather, a solicitor, in large county practice, having his
offices in Essex-street, Strand.
There my father was born and his two sisters, Ann and Harriet. Aunt
Ann died in 1858, leaving all she possessed to Aunt Harriet, who remained in
Digitized by Google
1889.] . More than' a Year after Death. 21
the house. They had been devotedly attached to each other. In November,
1864, I was summoned to Brighton. My Aunt Harriet was then very ill
there. Mrs. Coppinger, the daughter of Mr. Thomas Pearson, my father's
brother, was there, and her son, Mr. George James, by her first husband,
came up and down. Eliza Quinton was nursing her. She only craved to
·go back to the old house where she was bom, and I made arrangements with
the railway company and took her home.
This was in the second week in December. She became worse and
worse. Eliza continued to nurse her, and Mrs. Coppinger, Mrs. John
Pearson, the wife of a nephew, and myself helped with the night work.
Miss Harriet Pearson slept in a large three-windowed bedroom over the
drawing-room. The room behind was occupied by Mrs. Coppinger and
.myself, though one of us was generally in the patient's room at night. On
the night of December 22nd,l864, Mrs. John Pearson was in the room,
Mrs. Coppinger and myself in the back room j the house lighted up on
the landings and staircases, our door wide open.
About 1 or 2 a.m. on the moming of December 23rd, both Mrs.
Coppinger and myself started up in bed j we were neither of us sleeping, as
we were watching every sound from the next room.
We saw some one pass the door, short, wrapped up in an old shawl, a
wig with three curls each side and an old black cap. Mrs. Coppinger called
out, "Emma, get up, it is old Aunt Ann." I said, co So it is, then Aunt
Harriet will die to-day." We jumped up, and Mrs. John Pearson came
rushing out of the room and said, "That was old Aunt Ann. Where is she
gone to 1" I said to soothe her, "Perhaps it was Eliza come down to see how
her mistress is." Mrs. Coppinger ran upstairs and found Eliza sleeping
in the servants' room. She was very awestruck but calm, dreued and
came down. Every room was searched, no one was there, and from that
day to this no explanation has ever been given of this appearance, except
that it was old Aunt Ann come to call her sister, and she died at 6 p.m.
that day. EMMA M. PEABsoN.
The housekeeper, who is still with Miss Pearson, writes as follows:-
I was living with Miss Ann and Miu Harriet Pearson, in 19, St. James's-
place. After the death of MiBB Ann I remained with her sister, and when
she became very ill and was ordered change of air, I went with her
as nurse to Brighton. Mrs. Coppinger was there and Mr. George .Tames
now and then. Miss Emma Pearson was sent for and came down. She
brought her aunt back to London. I continued to nurse her. I remember
on the early morning of December 23rd being called up by Mrs. Coppinger,
who said that she, Miss Emma, and Mrs. John Pearson had seen someone
come upstairs and pass into the patient's room. Was it 11 I said no. Mrs.
Coppinger said, "They said it was old Aunt Ann." We searched the house
and could find no one. Miu Harriet died in the evening of that day, but
before that told all of us that she had seen her sister aud knew it was
her, and she had come to call her. ELIZA QUINTON.
.April 3!'d, 1888.
In a separate letter of the same date Miss Pearson adds :-
" I now remember my aunt saying 'her sister had come for her, for she
had seen her.' "
Digitized by Google
22 On Recognised Apparitions ocC'Urritng [July 8,
The next case which I shall cite is more remote, and depends on a
single memory. The relation of time between the apparition and the
death is also uncertain. The phantom's brother was undergoing at the
time his last illness; but that illness was a long one.
III.-From Madame de Gilibert, The Paddocks, Hayward's Heath.
The Hon. Auberon HElrbert and other members of the family have
kindly looked through the dates, &c., in this narrative, which, so far as
given by Madame Gilibert, were correct.
Sir Robert Herbert, K.C.M.G., writes :-
"It is an unUlually well authenticated ltory, as far as the honesty of the
reporter goes." Mr. Robert Marsham remarka that .. the fact that the
superior servant Garland leemed vexed at first when the little Charlotte
King described what she had seen, would rather seem to imply that the
ghost had been known to appear before."
Lady Carnarvon died February 10th, 1826.
The Earl of Egremont died November 11th, 1837.
June, 1883.
In my early days I lived in a large house, belonging to my grandfather
[the Earl of Egremont], at Petworth, from which we removed on his death
(1837); from this date I conclude that I could not have been younger than
11 or older than 12 when the following occurrence took place, between the
beginning of the year 1836 and the winter of 1837.
I mUit describe that part of the hOUie which we, the family, occupied on
the ground door. My grandfather's room was on the south side of a long
passage, which communicated with the more public parte of the hOUie.
Opposite his door, on the north side of the passage, was a swinging, red
baize door, which led to a narrow corridor, having on one side two doors,
one my mother's bedroom, and the other the door of my father's dressing-
room ; on the other side was a small staircase, leading to two rooms occupied
by Garland, a superior servant, who took care of my grandfather, who was
very old. All the grandchildren were very fond of Garland, who spoilt us
all. One afternoon I had gone up to her rooms, and not finding her, as she
had not returned from the steward's room from dinner, I turned to go
downstairs. I generally "slid" down those stairs in a way peculiar to
myself. Balancing myself on my chest, and straightening myself into a
nearly horizontal position, I Uled to let myself go down the incline with an
impetus. I was in this position, just about to launch myself, when I was
aware of a figure, which came from the baize door, and which astonished me
and made me pause. It was a female figure, in soft, clinging drapery,
greyish whitish,-some sort of shawl or kerchief crossed over the bosom;
the features, well-cut, delicate, and of an aquiline type; but what struck me
most was the head-dress or coif, which had lace lappets or strings which,
passing under the chin, were tied in a. bow on the top of the head. I was,
as I said, astonished, but not frightened. So many people did go about the
house that it never occurred to me to be anything supernatural. But when
the figure glided past the two doors I have mentioned, a sort of revulsion
took place in me. I let myself slide down the balustrade and rushed to stop
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year ajteT Death. 23
her and tell her that there waa no "way out." (There was a diaUl8d door,
but it had been long blocked up.) I could not have been five aeconda
behind the figure, but when I reached the blocked door, there waa nothing.
I 1meto no one could pass, but I ran round to the children's nurseries,
with which that door had communicated, and began asking the nurses
whether they had seen "an old woman in a white dressing-gown and grey
shawl and lace ribbons under her chin tied on the top of her head," adding,
"and she had a nose like Mrs. Pullen" (the head laundress, who waa_a 80rt
of female Duke of Wellington). I only got laughed at and snubbed by the
nUl'llell, but when Garland came in and I told her, she seemed vexed at first,
and ended by scolding me, 80 I was "shut up" ; but nevertheleaa I knew
that I could not account for it, and every detail of dreaa, feature, and gait is
aa vivid now lUI it was at the time.
Many years afterwarda I W&8 in Paria after my marriage, and I UI8d to
see a cousin of my mother's, who had married abroad, and I told her once
what I have above narrated. Madame de Vabner at once said to me, c'My
dear, you have described your great aunt to the minutest item of her dress
and appearance." (Madame de Valmer had been brought up by Lady
Carnarvon, her aunt.) "And," continued Madame de Valmer, .. she came,
you say, from the swing door which led to your grandfather's room. She
came to fetch her brother. He died very soon after." Of course, I do not
believe this explanation of the mysterious figure; still, the nurseries with
which the diauaed door communicated had been Lady Carnarvon's apart-
ments, and she had died there.
C. DE GILIBUT.
In a.ns1Pfer to inquiries, Madame de Gilibert says :-
The only two portraits of Lady Carnarvon at Petworth represent her
very young. In one she is with my grandfather, and is quite a child. In
the other-a Gainsborough looking head-ehe is quite a young woman, her
brown hair tied with a ribbon, nothing at all resembling the muftling head-
dreaa I saw. C. DB GWBBRT.
[I have had an interview with Madame de Gilibert, who seems a very
intelligent and clear-headed person. She gave me precisely the same account
fliwd IIO«.-E.G.]
Madame de Gilibert has had no other hallucinations.
" I have never even,. aa far aa I can remember, dreamt a dream."
In each of these cases there has been some evidential point to
distinguish the apparition from a merely subjective hallucination. In
the first there was the unknown alteration in the familiar face; in the
second there were more percipients than one; in the third the figure was
unknown to the percipient, but seemingly recognised by others from her
account. We possess a few other cases resembling these except for the
absence of precisely this evidential quality. That is to say, they are
apparitions of a deceased friend, coinciding with the beginning of a.
survivor's fatal illness, or symbolising in some way his approaching
death. This amount of coincidence may, of course, be highly
impressive to the percipient, if he has never before expelienced any
Digitized by Google
24 On·Recognised Apparitions occurring [July 8,
hallucination. But we cannot claim such ca.ses as evidential,. since it
is possible that the hallucination may have been determined by the
oncoming illness; or, although occurring during health, it may, by
alarming the percipient, have helped to fulfil its own prognostication.l
This would have been, perhaps, the fittest place for a case which
was printed in the last article (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 422), where
Mrs. Bacchus sees the phantom of a man recognised from her descrip-
tion as the deceased husband of a lady whose corpse was then lying in
the house where the ghost appeared. If we accept that recognition as
valid, we must suppose that the phantom was in some way induced by
the death of the wife.
And to this category, in fact, belong the rather numerous ca.ses (see
Proceedings, Vol.V., p. 459, note) where a dying person sees the forms of
friends already dead. Dying men may, for aught we know, be specially
liable to subjective disturbances of perception; and we cannot, therefore,
take account of cases where the dying man, and he alone, sees figures of
friends whom he knows to be dead. But in a few cases a dying man is
reported to have seen, mixed with figures of those whom he knows to be
dead, the figure of someone of whose decease he has not yet heard. As
regards the dying man, we may call such a vision a kind of clairvoyance
in extrtmis. But the apparition seen-if more than a mere fancy-
must be classed as a phantom which indicates knowledge of what is
passing on earth, and is in some way conditioned by the death of the
surviving friend. Such death-bed visions are by their very nature not
likely to be shared by more than one person. We have only one case,
A.nd that at second-hand, where a. watcher beside the dying bed sees
distinctly the same figures which the dying person sees. But death-bed
experiences have very rarely been observed with the right kind of care,
a.nd we may hope for a good deal more information when the scientific
interest of these visions, as from "a peak in Darien" (to use Miss
Cobbe's simile), is more generally understood.
But apart from knowledge as to the death of survivors, is any
knowledge of other earthly matters ever displayed by a ghost 7 There
are many stories of dangers averted by ghostly intervention; are we to
assume that the departed watch over us, and guard our earthly days 1
The following case is a striking specimen of this class, the phantom
having been seen by two persons. The brevity of the rebuke, conveyed
merely by a name twice repeated, is a point in favour of the narrative;
for long speeches put into the mouths of ghosts are pretty sure to be
I In the Journal S.P.R. for December, 1888, p. 359, will be found an account of an
apparent prediction to a moribund person of the date of his death by his deceased
father's figure, seen in a dream. This CBBe, which, taken alone, would have no
e\idential value, is rendered interesting by the other experiences of the same family,
which will be found in the Journal, loco cit.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 25
apocryphal. It is noteworthy that one of the percipients in this case
had already experienced a " vision of consolation" under circumstances
of strong emotion. Taken by itself, that consolatory vision might
certainly have been classed as purely subjective. But the fact that
the only other hallucina.tion which this percipient experienced was (as
I should myself hold) a veridical one, may inspire BOme doubt as to
whether that earlier vision also may not have had BOme veridical basis.
IV.-From a lady who desires that names may not be published.
June 9th, 1885.
Our mother died while we were all very young; and as I, the fourth
child of seven, was the eldest living daughter, I became early acquainted
(from my eighth year) with sorrow of varioua kinds and degrees, principally
caused, however, by the harshne88 and frequent neglect of housekeeper and
aervants towards my baby brother and sister. The two eldest boys-between
whom and myself was a gap of some years-were almost always away from
home, and ultimately went abroad, 80 that from the time I was quite a
'little child I was continually with my father, who made much of me, and at
last I became his constant companion. He never married again, and our
love was probably, therefore, a closer union even than commonly exists
between a father and daughter while the latter is of tender years. It was a
great pain to me ever to be away from him, especially after my 14th
year, at which time he began to make me his confidante as well as companion;
and we had frequent earnest talks and diacU88ions on many subjects. At
length, when I was about 18 yea.ra old, a terrible grief befell us, viz.,
the death of my two elder brothers within a few weeks of each other, while
they were still abroad.
My father's sorrow was great; and at the same time he became seriously
troubled with many doubts regarding various points of Christian faith, and
80 gradually lost nearlyall his buoyancy of spirit, and became sadly depre88ed
and worn-looking, though only 48 years old. For a year he thus su1fered,
when it was arranged that, so soon as he could plan to leave home, he should
go to lOme seaside place, and try what new scenes would effect. He also
perpuaded-;-nay, insisted-that I should go away for awhile, without waiting
for him. and accompany some friends to South Devonshire.
The writer then narrates how a sudden summons brought her back
to find her father dead.
I went early to bed, to escape the presence and sympathetic ministrations
of the many in that kind household who gathered around me; and by my
own choice I shared the room of a motherly-looking personage, whom I
IUppoaed to be my cousin's nurse. She occupied the larger bed in the room,
and I a smaller one placed at some distance from hers. She was soon asleep
and breathing heavily; but I was lying in deepest anguish, beset not only
with the grief of the sudden 1088 sustained, but with the wretched fear that
my beloved father had died too suddenly to find peace with God, regarding
those miaerable doubts that had 80 troubled him. As the night wore on,
the pain of heart and thought grew worse and worse, and at length I knelt
in prayer, earnestly pleading that my distreSBful thoughts might be taken
Digitized by Google
26 On Recognised Apparitions occurring [July 8,
away, and ~ &88urance of my father's peace be given me by God's Moet
Holy Spirit. No immediate relief came, however, and it W&8 early dawn
when I rose from my knees, and felt that I must be patient and wait for the
answer of my prayer.
Now a longing suddenly seized me to creep into that kind-faced woman's
bed, and to feel perhaps 1888 lonely there. Her bed W&8 opposite a
window, over which a white blind W&8 drawn, and &8 I softly lifted the bed-
clothes and 8&t for a moment after drawing my feet up into the bed, I
noticed the pale dawn feebly lighting up the window, and the movement of
a little bird on the sill outside; but the room itself W&8 &8 yet almost dark.
I was just about to slip quietly down into the bed, when on the opposite
aide of it (that on which the nurse W&B sleeping) the room became suddenly
full of beautiful light,in the midst of which stood my father absolutely trans-
figured, clothed with brightn888. He slowly moved towards the bed, raising
his hands, &8 I thought, to clup me in his arms ; and I ejaculated: "Father! "
He replied, "BleBBed for ever, my child I For ever bleBBed !" I moved to
climb over nurse and kiaa him, reaching out my arms to him ; but with a
look of mingled aadn888 and love he appeared to float back with the light.
towards the wall and was gone I The vision occupied so short a time that,
glancing involuntarily at the window again, I 8&W the morning dawn and the
little bird just as they had looked a few minutes before. I felt sure that God
had vouchsafed to me a wonderful vision, and was not in the least afraid,
but, on the contrary, full of a joy that brought floods of grateful tears, and
completely removed a.ll anguish except that of having 100t my father from
earth. I oft'er no explanation, and can only 8&y mOlt simply and truthfully
that it all happened just as I have related.
You may find a solution to the occurrence in the sympathy which had
existed between my dear father and myself; or, &8 friends have often
insisted, in the condition of excitement and exhaustion which I W&8 suft'er-
ing at the time; but after all these years of life and experience, the memory
of that wonderful morning is ever vividly fresh, and real, and true.
The writer's husband adds, under date June 17tb, 1885:-
The narrative, as related above, is substantially the 8&me given to me by
Mrs. P. &8 early &8 1865, and at subsequent periods.
w. B. P.
And Dr. and Mrs. 0., referred to above, write, June 16th, 1885 :-
The preceding narrative was related to us by Mrs. P., substantially as
here recorded, some four or five years ago.
J..ums O. ELLEN H. O.
[Now comes the case which has evidential importance.J
In the year 1867 I was married, and my husband took a house at
S--, quite a new one, just built in what W&8, and still is probably,
called "Olift' Town," as being at a greater elevation than the older part of
the town. Our life W&8 exceedingly .bright and happy there until towards
the end of 1869, when my husband's healt.h appeared to be failing, and he
grew dejected and moody. Trying in vain to ascertain the cause for this,
and being repeatedly &88ured by him that I was "too fanciful," and that
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 27
there was ..nothing the matter with him," I ceaaed to vex him with
qaeatiollll, and the time paaaed quietly away till Christmas Eve of that
year (1869).
An uncle and aunt lived in the neighbourhood, and they invited us to
spend Christmas Day with them-to go quite early in the moming to
breakfaat, accompanied by the whole of our amall household.
We arranged therefore to go to bed at an early hour on the night of the
24th, 80 as to be up betimes for our morning walk. Consequently, at 9
o'clock, we went upstairs, having as uaaal carefully attended to bars and
bolts of doors, and at about 9.30 were ready to extinguish the lamp; but our
little girl-a baby of 15 montha-generally woke up at that time, and after
drinking some warm milk would sleep again for the rest of the night; and,
as ahe bad not yet awakened, I begged my husband to leave the lamp burning
and get into bed, while I, wrapped in a dreaaing-gown, lay on the outside of
the bed with thecot on my right hand. The bedatead faced the fireplace, and
nothing atood between but a aettee at the foot of the bed. On either
side of the chimney was a large receu,-the one to the left (as we faced in
that direction) having a cheat of drawers, on which the lamp was 8tanding.
The entrance door was on the same side of the room as the head of the bed
and to t-he left of it-facing, therefore, the r8Ceaa of which I 8peak. The door
was locked; and on that same side (to my left) my husband was lying, with
the curtain drawn, towarda which his face was turned.
Roughly, the position was thus-
r-- Furniture
DooI
-
Bed IJSet.
[ Cot I
Bay Window
L ,-1
[
-
'---
0
..J
Drawers and
Lamp
Chimney
AA the bed had curtains only at the head, all before us was open and
dimly-lighted, the lamp being turned down.
This takea some time to describe, but it was 8till just about 9.30,
Gertrude not yet awake, and I just pulling mY8elf into a balf-sitting posture
against the pillows, thinking of nothing but the arrangements for the follow-
ing day, when to my great astonishment I 8&W a gentleman 8tanding at the
foot of the bed, dreaaed as a naval officer, and with a cap on his head having a
projecting peak. The light being in the position which I have indicated, the
face was in 8hadow to me, and the more 80 that the visitor was leaning upon
his arms which rested on the foot-rail of the bedstead. I was too astonished
Digitized by Google
'28 On Recognised Apparitions occurring [J:uly 8,
to be afraid, but simply wondered who it could be ; and, instantly touching
my husband's shoulder (whose face was turned from me), I 88id, "Willie.
who is this 1" My husband turned, and for a second or two lay looking in
intense astonishment at the intruder; then lifting himself a little, he
shouted "What on earth are you doing here, sir 1" Mean.while the form,
slowly drawing.himself into an upright position, now 88id in a commanding,
yet reproachful Yoice, "Willie I Willie!"
I looked at my husband and 88W that his face was white and agitated. As
I turned towards him he sprang out of bed as though to attack the man, but
stood by the bedside as if afraid,or in great perplexity,while the figure calmly
and slowly moved towards tM 1lXIll at right angles with the lamp in the dirac-
.tion of the dotted line. As it passed the lamp, a deep shadow fell upon the
room as of a material person shutting out the light from us by his intervening
body, and he'diBBppeared, as it were, into the wall. My husband now, in a
very agitated manner, caught up the lamp, and turning to me 88id, "I mean
to look all over the house, and see where he is gone."
I was by this time exceedingly agitated too, but remembering that the
door was locked, and tha~ the mysterious visitor had not gone towards it at
all, remarked, "He has not gone out by the door!" But without pausing,
my husband unlocked the door, hastened outof the room, and was soon search-
ing the whole house. Sitting there in the dark, I thought to myself, " We
have surely seen an .apparition I Whatever can it indicate-perhaps my
brother Arthur (he was in the navy, and at that time on a voyage to India)
is in trouble: such things have been told of as occurring." In some luch
way I pondered with an anxious heart, holding the child, who just then
awakened, in my arms, until my husband came back looking very white and
miserable.
Sitting upon the bedside, he put his arm about me and 88id, "Do you
know what we have seen 1" And I 88id, "Yes, it was a spirit. I am afraid
it was Arthur, but could not see his face "-and he exclaimed, "Oh I no, it
was my father I "
My husband's father had been dead fourteen vears: he had been a naval
officer in his young life; but, through ill-health, had left the service before
my husband was born, and the latter had only once or twice Been him in
~niform. I had never seen him at all. My husband and I related the occur-
rence to my uncle and aunt, and we all noticed that my husband's agitation
and anxiety were very great: whereas his usual manner was calm and
reserved in the extreme, and he was a thorough and avowed sceptic in all-
so-called-supematural event&.
As the weeks passed on my husband became very ill, and then gradually
disclosed to me that he had been in great financial difficulties; and that, 1\t
the time his father was thus sent to us, he was inclining to take the advice
of a man who would certainly-had my husband yielded to him (as he had
intended before hearing the warning voice)-have led him to ruin, perhaps
worse. It is this fact which makes us most reticent in speaking of the event;
ill addition to which, my husband had already been led to speculate upon
certain chances which resulted in failure, and infinite sorrow to us both as
well as to others, and was indeed the cause of our coming to --, after a
year of much trouble, in the January of 1871.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than·a Year after Death. 29
None of IlS were particularly ready to believe in such evidences,
notwithstanding my experience at my father's death, because we had reo
garded that as a special answer to prayer; 80 that no condition of "over·
wrought nerves," or "superstitious fears," could have been the cause of the
manifestation, but only, 80 far as we have been able to judge by subsequent
events, a direct warning to my husband in the voice and appearance of the
one that he had most reverenced in all his life, and was the most likely to
obey.
Dr. a.nd l\lrs. C., friends of :Mrs. and Mr. P., add the following note:-
J1I1J.e 16th, 1885.
'l'his narrative was told us by Mrs. P., as here recorded, some years ago.
J. C. ELLEN H. C.
Mr. P. confinns as follows, June 17th, 1885:-
Without wishing to add more to the incidents recorded herein by my
wife, I would simply note that the details of No.2 are quite correct, and that
the occurrence took place as stated. * * if. W. B. P.
I will add one other first-hand narrative, which comes from a
respectable source, although the death of all persons concerned in it
prevents cOlToboration.
V.-From :Mr. Happerfield, Postmaster.
Road, Bath, May 12th, 1884.
When myoId friend John Harford, who had been a Wesleyan lay
preacher for half a century, lay dying, in June of 1851, he sent for me, and
when I went to his bedside he said, " I am glad you have come, friend
Happerfield ; I cannot die easy until I am assured that my wife will be
looked after and cared for until she may be called to join me in the other
world. I have known you for many years, and now want you to promise to
look to her well-being during the little time which she may remain after me."
I said, " I will do what I can, so let your mind be at rest." He said, " I can
trust you," and he soon after, on the 20th day of the month, fell asleep in
the Lord. I administered his affairs, and when all was settled there remained
a balance in favour of the widow, but not sufficient to keep her. I put her
into a small cottage, interested some friends in her C&l!e, and saw that
she was comfortable. After a while Mrs. Harford's grandson came and
propoeed to take the old lady to his house in GIoucestershire, where he held
a situation as schoolmaster. The request seemed reasonable. I consented,
providing she was quite willing to go ; and the young man took her accord·
ingly. Time passed on. We had no correspondence. I had done my duty
to my dying friend, and there the matter rested. But one night, as I lay in
bed wakeful, towards morning, turning over busineBB and other matters in
my mind, I suddenly became conscious that someone was in the room. Then
the curtain of my bed was drawn aside, and there stood my·departed friend,
gazing upon me with a sorrowful and troubled look. I felt no fear, but
surprise and astonishment kept me silent. He spoke to me, distinctly and
audibly in his own familiar voice, and Aid : "Friend Happerfield, I have
30 On BecogniBed Apparitions occu,rri,ng [July 8,
come to you because you have not kept your promise to see to my wife. She
is in trouble and in want." I 818Ured him that I had done my duty, and
was not aware that she was in any difficulty, and that I would see about her
first thing, and have her attended to. He looked satisfiedand vanished from
my sight. I awoke my wife, who was asleep at my side, and told her what
had occurred. Sleep departed from us, and on arising, the first thing I did
was to write to the grandson. In reply he informed me that he bad been
deprived of his situation through persecution, and was in great straits,
insomuch that he had decided on sending his grandmother to the Union.
Forthwith I sent some money and a request to have the old lady forwarded
to me immediately. She came, and was again provided with a homeandhad
her wants supplied. These are the circumstances as they occurred. I am
not a nervous man ; nor am I superstitious. At the time myoId friend came
to me I was wide awake, collected, and calm. The above is very correct, not
overdrawn. C. lIAPPERFlBLD.
This last case, however, suggests a fresh difficulty,>-namely,
as to the real origin of the monitory voice. There is a good
deal of evidence, from the Dalmon of Socrates downwards, to the
occurrence of monitions or warnings which in various ways inform
the percipient of some approaching danger. And sometimes these
monitions are associated-by an impression, or by an actual vision-
with some deceased person, who is supposed to be acting as a guardian
or protector to the person thus admonished.
But it is a well-known fact,-pointed out by ElIiotson, and
repeatedly noticed since his day,-that hypnotised or somnambulic
subjects have a tendency to develop a pseudo-guardian,-to refer the
knowledge or sensation which comes from sub-eonscious strata of their
own mind to some imaginary spirit, whom they sometimes see beside
them in visible form. Thus, in the classical case of "Estelle,"-that
patient of the elder Despine, whose history is so curiously concordant
with the most recent observations,-Estelle in her secondary condition
supposed herself to be directed by a spirit, "Angelique," who was
obviously a mere personification of her own supernormal knowledge of
the state of her own organism. Similarly in cases of automatic writing,
the message which really comes from the unconscious self of the writer
will sign itself by the name of some deceased relative. It is therefore
possible, and even probable, that in some of the cases where warnings
have been conveyed by some phantasmal figure simulating a dead
friend, the real source of the warning has been somewhere in the
percipient himself. And thus, for instance, in the Happerfield case,
just cited, the phantom may have been the mere dramatic projection,
either of knowledge telepathically acquired by the percipient, or of a
mere sub-conscious current of anxiety as to the welfare of a protlg/~ of
whom he had heard no news for some time.
While thus discussing the indications of a knowledge of earthly
Digitized by Google
1889.] .More than a Year after Death. 31
events afforded by phantoms, there is one curious type of cases which I
ought to mention, although by their very nature they can hardly occur
more than a year after death-I mean cases where some manifestation
occurs just before the news of the death is received by the percipient.
In a case given in the last paper (Proceeding" Vol. V., p. 408), the
Rev. G. M. Tandy saw Canon Robinson's apparition just before he
opened a newspaper-given to him in its wrapper by a friend-which
contained the announcement of the Canon's death. In that case no
telepathic communication from living persons seems possible; for
neither would the Canon's surviving friends think specially of Mr.
Tandy, nor could they possibly know when the news of the death would
reach him.
We have received a similar case from Mr. Magnusson, Assistant
Librarian in the Cambridge University Library, where a strong
impression of the death of a friend in Iceland came upon him-not
at the time of the death, but at the time when the letter announcing
the death hadjust reached England. As this was only an impression,-
though" painfullystrong one,-and was not recorded at the time, I do not
quote the incident at length. But a case of Mr. Cameron Grant's, briefly
mentioned by Mr. Gurney in Plw,ntasmB ojtlUJ Living (II., p. 690), seems,
on further study of his diary, to illustl"lilote the present point so curiously
that I must refer to it here. After mentioning two other cases in
which entries in Mr. Grant's diary confirm his recollection of strong
impressions nearly coincident with deaths, Mr. Gurney continues :-
"I have studied in Mr. Grant's diary the full record of a third case
which was even more remarkable than the first, as it included the
peculiarity that, for some time after his first impression, he felt forcibly
impelled to draw the figure of the person who died. The case was made
the more striking to me by the fact that Mr. Grant was so certain that
the death (the time of which he had only very vaguely learnt) must
have coincided in date with his impression, that he had actually not taken
the trouble to verify the coincidence. He left it to me to find in the
Timu obituary-as he confidently foretold that I should-that the
death (which was quite unexpected) occurred, thousands of miles from
the place where he was, on the day preceding that on which the entry
in his diary, relating his impression of the previous night, was written.
The impression of that night did not, however,bear distinct reference to
the particular person who died, but was a more general sense of calamity.
Certain reasons which at present make it desirable not to publish the
details of this case may in time cease to exist."
Now,on a fuller inspection of Mr. Grant's voluminousjournal,(largely
a business record,) which he has kindly permitted me to make, it appeared
that the impulse to draw the dying man was the most marked feature
in the- whole incident, and furthermore that this impulse came on some
Digitized by Google
32 On Recognised Apparitions occurring [July 8,
months after the death-but on the night previous to the day on which
Mr. Grant saw, in a casual newspaper received in Brazil, the announce-
ment of his friend's demise in Scotland.l
The possibility of a telepathic impulse from the surviving members
of the family of course suggests itself: but Mr. Grant was in a wild up-
country station in Brazil; and it seems impossible that anyone could
guess at wha.t date the news would reach him. The rough sketch which
Mr. Grant was impelled to make contained two figures (of which the
second was a servant) and a window; and it truly represented, as he
afterwards learnt, the circumstances of the death.
This narrative in some sense fits in with a few cases (cf.Plumtasma
of the Living, I., 272, and possibly II., 52) where an impression or
hallucination seems to have continued for some time and then ceased
when the news of a death arrived. On the other hand, there are a few
cases (see Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 519) which suggest that if indepen-
dent clairvoyance exist, the perception of letters arriving, or about to
arrive, In&y form one of its readiest manifestations. The subject is one
to which observation should be specially directed.
On the whole, therefore, our cases where knowledge of earthly
affairs on the decedent's part is clearly indicated are few indeed. I
may add a case of Mr. Da.le Owen's,' where the knowledge which the
ghost seems to show is not of a death, but of a more mundane event.
VI.-In March, 1846, Mrs. R., wife of Dr. R., of Philadelphia,was sitting
with her two daughters in her dining-room about midday. They all three
saw a figure enter, move through the room, contemplate a portrait of Dr.
R., and disappear. Mrs. R. and the elder daughter, who saw the figure hest,
identified it in dress and aspect with Dr. R.'s mother, who had died about
10 years before.
The ladies narrated this incident to the Rev. Mr. Y., and he independently
gave to Mr. Owen (at whatdate is not said) an account .. tallying exactly"
with the account given to him by the two ladies mainly concerned.
On the return home of Dr. R. that evening it further appeared that the
apparition involved a remarkable coincidence. .. Shortly before her death,"
1 I am not sure how many hours the impulse lasted, Mr. Grant having been obliged
to return toBrazil before sending me a copy of the pa88&gIl in his joumaI.
t The DebtJtea.bk Land, 2nd Ed., p. S19.-Mr. Robert Dale Owen's works contain
several narratives which might find place in this collection. I have preferred to leave
the reader to consult them for himself, and judge of the value to be attached to them.
Mr. Owen cannot be cIa.aaed as a first-rate obBerver; having been once at leaat grossly
deceived by fraudulent mediums. Noris his standard of what constitutes etJid_ very
high, as is shown by the admiasion to his volumes of RUndry remote and inconclusive
stories. But, on the other hand, his own honesty and his strong wish to be accurate are
undoubted. He wrote out the acoounts given tohim with care, and, &8 a rule, submitted
them for revision to the narrator. Where the narrators wereknown to him &8 persons of
probity and position, and give their account at first-hand, we maybe pretty sure that the
main facts arecorrect. It is greatly to beregretted that the fullnamea are 80 rarely given,
and that Mr. Owen's papers either have not been preserved, orare not now accessible.l.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More tka;n, a Year after Death. 33
says Mrs. Owen, "Dr. R.'s mother had strongly advised her son to buy a house
in the neighbourhood, which he ultimately purchased. She had also about
that time stated to a friend of hers, Mrs. C., that if her son did well, she
would, if permitted, return from the other world to witness his prosperity.
• • • As nearly as could be ascertained, at the very hour [of the apparition]
the deeds by which Dr. R. became the legal proprietor of the house in which
she appeared were delivered to him by its former possessor."
The inference suggested is that here the prosperous action-as in other
cases the impending or the actual decease of the survivor-a1;tracted the
attention, and thence in some way induced the appearance, of the long-
departed friend.
We proposed roughly to divide the apparently motived actions of
these apparitions into the reasonable and the unreasonable :-that is to
say, into actions which seem to imply real intention on the decedent's
part, and actions which suggest the mere unconscious working out of
some old prejudice or bygone impulse. Under which class of motives
are we to place the desire to pay one's debts 1 This desire is in itself
legitimate; but nevertheless, when the debts are trifling, there seems
something undignified in a post-mortem preoccupation with a small
account which the decedent has left no funds to settle; so that all he
can now do is to get a stranger to pay it for him. Yet such is
. the situation suggested in a narrative which Dr. Binns, an author of
some scientific repute in his day, gives in his Anatomy of Sleep, p. 462,
adding that "perhaps there is not a better authenticated case on
record." It consists of a letter written October 21st, 1842, by the
Rev. Charles M'Kay, a Catholic priest, to the Countess of Shrewsbury.
The Earl of Shrewsbury sent on the letter to Dr. Binns. It is quoted
by Dale Owen (Foot/olla, p. 294). I abbreviate it here:-
V1I.-" In July, 1838, I left Edinburgh to take charge of the Perthshire
missions. On myarrival inPerth, I was called upon by a Presbyterian woman,
Anne Simpson, who for more than a week had been in the utmost anxiety to
aee a priest. [This woman stated that a woman lately dead (date not given)
named Maloy, slightly known to Anne Simpson, had ' appeared to her during
the night for several nights ' urging her to go to the priest, who would pay a
sum of money, three and tenpence, which the deceased owed to a person
not specified.]
" I made inquiry, and found that a woman of that name had died, who had
acted as washerwoman and followed the regiment. Following up the inquiry
I found a grocer with whom she had dealt, and on asking him if a female
named Maloy owed him anything, he turned up his books, and told me she did
owe him three and tenpence. I paidthe sum. Subsequently the Presbyterian
woman came to me, saying that she was no more troubled."
This account, though first-hand, is remote, and I know of no recent
cases that are quite parallel. But the point on which I here insist is
that the triviality of the ghost's alleged motive is no reason for
disbelieving the narrative. We have no right to assume that ..
D
Digitized by Google
34 On Recognised Apparitions OCCU/M-1/ng [July 8,
decedent, by the mere fact of his decease, will see things in a larger
light, or shake oft' the anxieties, the prepOBBessions, the superstitions
of earth. Or even if we assume that he does in some sort enter on a
larger existence, it does not follow that the conduct of his apparition
will reflect his new knowledge rather than the impulses originated by
his earthly being.1
In fact, as we shall presently try to show, there is some reason to
suppose that the apparition is due to something like the working out of a
post-hypnotic suggestion. It may be entirely absorbed in the fulfilment
of an idea implanted in the decedent's mind in his earthly days, or
impressed upon him at the moment of death. Thus we may conceive a
murdered man, for instance, as feeling persistently that he ought not
to have been murdered,-that his existence should still be continuing
in his earthly home. And if his apparition is seen in that home, we
need not 8&y that he is "condemned to walk there," but rather that
his memory or his dream goes back irresistibly to the scene to which in
a sense he feels that he still belongs.
I 8&Y" his memory or his dream " ; but it is of course pOBBible
that neither word may suggest a close parallel to what actually occurs.
There may be a deeper severance in the personality of the dead-
a psychical fractionation such as that on which Indian and other
philosophies have been wont to dwell-which may allow of a greater
independence and persistence in the apparition than we usually
associate with the notion of a dream. There is nothing per Be improbable
in the idea that our personality-so much more fractionable even during
our earthly life than we were wont to imagine-should be susceptible,
when liberated from the body, of still profounder divisions. For the
present, howev~r, it seems better to keep to more familiar analogies,
and to use the word "dream" as the widest term available; though,
of course, without assuming that the decedent is in any sense asleep.
Let us suppose, then, that the decedent tends to dream of scenes and
events in the past, and that the way which he has of old been
accustomed to regard such scenes or events is still dominant in
that dream. We shall not then be surprised to find that what I have
1 It has been remarked that dying pel'BOllB aeem inwardly sometimes to be pre-
occupied with some very small and remote matter. Dr. Flirt! gives a cue where a
man dying from disease of the spinal marrow had already lost oonaoioum-. but was
momentarily revived by the injection of ether. He raised hie head and spoke eagerly
in a language which no one present understood. He then made sigm for pencil and
paper and wrote a few lines. These were found to be a statement in Flemish, the
language of hie childhood. as to a debt of 15 franca which he had oontracted at
Brussela, about 20 years previously. Another dying man, with acarcely perceptible
pulse, was similarly revived by the injection of ether. He turned to his wife and
said brusquely. "You will never find that pin; all the floor has been re-boarded."
This referred to an incident which had occurred 18 years before. Having so said, he
expired.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More t/w,n a Year after Death. 35
called ilTtJlional motivu appear to influence the apparition. And
amongst these we shall observe a frequent preoccupation with the mortal
remains or skeleton of the departed person. There is at any rate a
well-marked group of cases where the phantom seems to wish to draw
attention to the fact that a skeleton is concealed in some unexpected
place. When skeletons are found thus hidden, it is of course probable that
there has been foul play; and the cause of the phantom may be
supposed to have been in the first instance the desire of the deceased
to reveal the murder ; although the haunting may continue when all
possibility of bringing the criminal to justice may have passed away.
There is, however, another possible way of accounting for this
connection between apparitions and skeletons. We may ascribe the
hallucinatory figure, not to any action on the part of the dead, but to
the hyperaesthesia of the living. It has often been supposed that
certain "sensitives" are aware in some obscure manner of the proximity
of dead bodies. Developing this possibility (Proceeding8, VoL IV.,
p. 154), I cited two cases where such susceptibility might serve to explain
a feeling of horror experienced (1) in a room in whose roof (one story
higher) the dried-up body of a murdered baby was afterwards found ;
(2) in (and above) a room beneath whose flooring several skeletons were
subsequently discovered. In each of these cases there was proximity
under the same roof. But in the case which I shall now cite there was
no such proximity between the percipient and the skeleton. The
skeleton, as will be seen, was buried in an open field which the
percipient merely traversed from time to time. The bones were some 40
years old; and kelp had been burnt above the spot where they lay. It
seems incredible that a man should be thus affected by a distant
skeleton and yet capable of fulfilling the ordinary duties of life; which
in the case of a serious Scotch bailiff must undoubtedly have included
attendance, in the midst of buried skeletons, at church. The facts of
this case are unusually clear and well-evidenced ; the interpretation is
more than commonly difficult.
VIII.-DISCOVERY 011' A HUMAN SKELBTON BY REVBLATION IN A DREAM.
From the Banfflkire Journal of January 30th, 1872.
A moat unusual and extraordinary occurrence has excited considerable
interest in the district around Banft'during the past few days, the chain of
circumstances leading to which we are in a position to relate authoritatively.
William Moir is grieve at the farm of Upper Dallachy, in the pariah of
Boyndie, about three and a-half miles west of Ban1I', and a mile west of the
fishing village of Whitehills. Moir is an intelligent, steady, and modest
man, 35 years of age, and married. Shortly After Whit Sunday last, he
dreamed that, on a particular spot near the farm of Dallachy, he saw lying
a dead body with blood upon the face. The dream was 80 vivid that every
point connected with it was deeply impressed upon his memory. The 8pot
D 2
Digitized by Google
36 On Recognised ilpparitions occurring [July 8,
on which he dreamed he saw the body lie W/UJ a slight mound on the sloping
ground which bounds the farm and stretches to the seaside, and about 16ft.
from the high water mark. For a time after the dream, Moir did not think
much about it; but the idea of the dead man afterwards haunted him, and
he could not exclude it from his mind. By-and-bye the matter took so firm
a hold upon his thoughts that never was he a moment unoccupied but the
idea and the vision returned to him.
An incident happened in the month of July last, which Moir, at the time,
thought was the interpretation of his dream. A person who had been an
inmate of the Banffshire Lunatic Asylum,at Ladysbridge, was found drowned at
a point about 2OOyardsfrom where Moirdreamt he saw the deadbody lie. There
is a boat belonging to the farm at Upper Dallachy, in which Moir and some of
the men-llervants occasionally went to Lea and amused themselves with fishing;
and it was while out in this boat that the dead body of the lunatic was
observed. It so happened that Moir was the first person to put his hand upon
the dead body ; and he and his companion proceeded to carry the body to
the village of Whitehills. When the two men were so carrying the dead body
of the lunatic, they passed over the exact spot where Moir in his dream had
seen the dead man lying, and the recollection of his dream became very vivid
·at that moment. When about six yards beyond the spot, Moir's companion
slipped his foot, and the end of the board upon which lay the lunatic's body
fell to the ground. Moir, keeping hold of his end of the board, observed
that there was blood upon the face of the corpse, and he looked upon the
incident as the fulfilment of his dream.
Still, however, the vision of the dream came back upon the man. He
could not go out walking or sit down at home in the evening without the
recollection coming before his mind. Indeed, he began to think that his
intellect was being affected, and he was conscious of becoming taciturn,
morose, and absent. The disagreeable feeling continued to increase in in-
tensity, and, during last week, it became positively painful. On Wednesday
last, iu the discharge of his ordinary duties, he went to an outlying portion
of the farm, and, while he was there occupied, the idea of the dream left
him. On Wednesday evening, however, it came back with increased force.
On Thursday morning he went down to Stakeness, a portion of ground
recently attached to the farm, and about 400 yards from the spot with which
his vision was associated, and, while there engaged, his oppressive thoughts
were dissipated. He returned to his house on the farm, and, after sitting
awhile, he intended to proceed to the portion of the farm at which he had
been on Wednesday, which lay on the side furthest from the sea.
While Moir was on the way from the house, the idea of his dream
occurred to him with Buch intense vividness that he turned and went back
to the house. Saying nothing to anyone in the house, he took a Bpade, and
walked direct to the spot of which he had BO distinct a recollection in con-
nection with his dream, and removed a little of the turf from the surface.
After he had done so, he put the spade down its full length into the ground,
and lifted up the earth. In the Bpadeful of earth, however, there was an
entire human Bkull. The man was not at all affected by the appearance of
the skull, the idea in his mind being that the turning-up of the skull was
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 37
nothing more than what was to have been expected. He took other spade-
fuls of earth, and brought up the lower jaw with teeth, followed by the
shoulder bonea, and, digging further along, dug up other bones of a human
body as far as the thigh. Laying the bonea out on the surface of the ground
jnat in the position he had found them buried, he realised that he was digging
up a skeleton. At that juncture Moir stopped digging, and went to an
elevated spot about 50 yards from the grave, where he called upon William
Lorimer, the cattleman at the farm, who was pulling turnips in a field.
Lorimer went to Moir, and both returned to the spot, when Moir recom-
menced digging, and brought out the lower bones of the skeleton. Both men
then threw the bones into the cavity, and covered them up. Moir's first
intention was to let the bones lie, but, on second thoughts, he went to the
village of Whitehilla to consult Mr. Taylor, merchant there, as to what he
should do. Moir had not been 10 minutes in the shop when Inspector
M'Gregor, of the county police, who had been in Whitehilla, accidentally
called at the shop. Moir reported to the inspector what had taken place,
and the two proceeded to the spot where the bones lay. By the time they
arrived there it was dusk, but the inspector had the skull and BOme of the
bonea uncovered at once.
On Friday morning Inspector M'Gregor returned to the place, and had
the whole of the skeleton taken up.
The place where the remains were found, and which had been so long
&88OCiated with the disagreeable dream in the mind of Moir, is not at all a
likely spot for an ordinary grave. The body could have only been covered
with about 18in. of mould, and underneath it there were only two or three
inchea of shingle, covering a surface of rock. The bonea were considerably
decomposed, and they may have lain there for about half a century. The spot
was enclosed by a circle of stones, froni eight to 10 yards in circurilference ;
and the stones and shingle were 80 discoloured as to indicate that they had
been subjected to the influence of fire. It is believed that the enclosed circle
was the site of a kiln for burning kelp. At one time kelp-burning was a
busine88 of BOme importance in the district, and there were more than a dozen
of these kilns upon the beach, within a few milea to the weat of Banff, the
last of which were only discontinued about half a century ago.
The finding of the remains has been reported to the 'Procurator-Fiscal,
and the bones have been taken charge of by the police, pending an investiga-
tion and instructions as to their disposal.
Curiosity will naturally exist as to how the finding of the skeleton has
after a time affected the mind of Mr. Moir. After meeting with Inspector
M'Gregor, the subject of the dream ceased to har&88 him, and he has since
enjoyed an entire immunity from his previous mental troubles.
The whole circumstances of the case, &8 we have related them, are con-
firmed by a variety of evidence, which shows them to be as undoubted as they
are unusual and remarkable.
Supplementary statement by Mr. Moir, Dallachy, at a conversation
held in the Journal office, Banff, on Friday, July 19th, 1872.
Mr. William Moir is a native of the pariah of Monymusk, in Aberdeen-
shire. He is 35 years of age, is married to a Mias Humphrey, from
Digitized by Google
38 On Recognised Apparitiom occurring [July 8,
Banffshire. Both Moir and his wife saw Dallachy for the first time
when they came to live there four ysal'll ago. Moir had become
familiar with all the ground on the farm by walking over it, in the ordinary
COUl'lle of his duties. There was nothing particular to attract his attention
to the spot mentioned in the narrative, and he had not paid any attention to
it more than to any other part of the farm, till in June, 1870, he dreamed
that he came to the spot and saw a man lying on it, with his clothes on, but
bare-headed. The man seemed to be lying on that particular spot, the same
as if he were drunk or in a senseless condition. The first time Moir had
occasion to pass the spot after he had the dream, it occurred to him when he
came to it that it was the spot on which he had seen the man lying. He
never dreamed before nor since about anything of the same kind, and is
generally a very BOund aleeper. Moir could not say whether the man was
dead or alive when he saw him in the dream, but he dreamed that he stood
and looked at the man, and on seeing the head bare and the face covered with
blood, he said to himself in an offhand sort of way, "That man has come off
with the wont of it." Subsequent to the dream Moir forgot about the man,
but his mind was always troubled about the spot ofground upon which he saw
the man lying.
Moir carefully read over the narrative and said it was quite correct. He
had read the narrative over and made corrections when it was written before
being printed, and immediately after the event occurred.
Certified by
(Signed) A. RAMSAY, Editor Ba'ILffshire Journal.
The next letter is from Mr. Alexander Thurburn, of Keith, to Mr.
T. A. Stewart, one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools.
Keith, March 12th, 1883.
My DEAR STEwART,-I send herewith a reprint from the BanffBkir.
JournaZ of the story of Moir's dream, from which is omitted a suggestion
M to the identity of the skeleton which proved erroneous. I also enclose a
copy of a supplementary statement which gives a few further particulars and
explains the steps taken for checking the accuracy of the original narrative.
The supplementary statement is written from notes which Nicol wrote in
shorthand while Mr. Ramsay was questioning Moir on some points which I
had asked him to investigate.
As the matter was investigated by the criminal authorities there can be
no doubt of the substantial accuracy of the facts. The Fiscal might tell you if
desired what was done. I learned from Mr. Ramsay that there was
no story of murder, robbery, or the like associated with the spot where the
body WM found. If hyperresthesia can be admitted as the cause, Moir was
just the sort of man in whom we could imagine such a condition to arise. He
seems to have been of an exceedingly sensitive, nervous temperament, and if
I remember right he fell into a state of religious depreBBion such M seriously
to unhinge his mind before his death, which took pla.ce in or about October,
1873. Mias Cobbe's theory in the Echo, therefore, seems to me the most
poBBible one. I made some inquiries (with the view of testing another
suggestion of MiBS Cobbe's) regarding his early history and the pOSBibility of
his having heard the story in boyhood and forgotten about it. It is, of
course, impoBBible to obtain absoZuk proof of the negative in such a case,
1889.] More than a Year aJt6r Death. 39
but Moir, the gardener, told me of the movements of all the members of the
family, and I could find no trace of any meaD8 whereby they, who came
comparatively recently to the county, could have knowu circumstances
connected with the mystery of which the people in the immediate district
were ignorant. If I can furnish any further details I shall be glad to do 80.
ALBX. TBUlUIVBN.
Mr. Thurburn adds further particulars &8 follows :-
Keith, Ma,lI26tA, 1874-
I have been making inquiry as to the points on which you suggeated
that information might be got about the late Mr. Moir, who dreamed of the
corpse at Dallachy, but all that I have learned is of a negative character. I
discovered that there was an uncle of his, a James Moir, a jobbing gardener
in Keith, to whom I am indebted for my facta,-the minister of Monymuak
to whom I wrote having told me that nothing could be learned there as all
the family had left that parish years ago.
I find from James Moir that the deceased's grandfather was a native of
Insch, in Aberdeenshire, and had a family of six, of whom the deceased'.
father was the third, and James (my informant) the fifth, and that he
removed to the parish of Monymusk when James was a mere child. The
deceased's father was alao very young when he was taken with the others to
Monymusk, and he continued in that parish where the deceased was alao
brought up until he left it to go to service.
James Moir, the gardener, knows ofno previous connection with the Ban1l"
district, nor of any friends of the family from that neighbourhood who could
have communicated to any of them the history of any events that might
have occurred there. The tragedy at Dallachy must have been kept a
profound secret, since the inquiries of the authorities have a1l"orded no clue
to its aolution, and therefore anyone acquainted with the facts is not likely
to have spoken of them except to a very confidential friend. I think it may
safely be asaumed that had such a close confidence existed between anyone
from the neighbourhood of Ban1I" who could have knowu about the story,
and any of the Moir family, during the lifetime of the late Mr. Moir, his
uncle, the gardener, would have knowu of it; 80 that it appears extremely
improbable that the story can have been told in Moir's hesring in his child-
hood and been forgotten by him.
Mr. Stewart kindly inquired personally into the case, and writes &8
follows :-
Keith, April 7th, 1883.
DBA.B Sm,-I have to-day interviewed Mrs. Moir, and I enclose a state-
ment signed by her. She is an intelligent, fresh-faced woman, apparently
between 40 and 50. She was very willing to answer my questions, and said
abe had received many letters and answered many inquiries already. I
asked her if she had seen the spot where the skeleton was found, and whether
its appearance suggeeted a grave 1 She said she had often seen it, that it had
no appearance of being a grave, and that the fishermen passed overit on their
way from the sea. I asked her if, after the skeleton had been uneArthed, her
husband still had these dreams 1 She said he had not, but that the shock to
his system led to his death. She described all the circumstances, how her
Digitized by Google
40 On Recognised Apparitions occurring [July 8,
husband had this weight on his mind, which she often urged him, even on
her knees, to impart to her, as she knew that something was preying upon
him. But, in her own words, "he had not the power" to do it. I asked
her if she meant that he was unwilling to tell her about it, because it might
make her uneasy, and she said this was not the way of it, but that he felt
himself bound not to reveal his experience, even to her. He often went out
and prayed to be delivered from the burden, and at last thought that his
reason was going. And· now comes part of the history I had not heard before.
She ssid that the old people in Boyndie knew of the sudden disappearance of
a man named Elder some 40 or 50 years ago. He was said to have gone to
America, but had not been traced, and it was generslly believed that he had
been murdered, and that, too, in the room. intohich. Moir elept. Drs. Hirschfeld
and Mawson, who examined the skeleton, gave as their opinion that it had
lain there for about 40 years. Mrs. Moir also ssid that the soil, some 16
inches deep, covering the skeleton must have been brought there for the pur-
pose, as there was no soil of that kind in the neighbourhood. Her opinion was
that the case had been hushed up to·sparethe feelings of their friends. Now,
of course, you must take all this for what it is worth. Mrs. Moir made the
statements to me to-<lay.
T. A. STBWAllT.
P.S.-I omitted to mention that Mrs. Moir said that the skull bore
marks of violence.-T. A. S.
DoctrnENT III.
I hereby certify in presence of T. A. Stewart, Esq., H.M.I.S., that the
account given in the Banffmire Journnl of my late husband's dream was a
correctrecord of the facts of the caSb.-JUSIB MOIlt, Lower Towie, Botriphny.
DoCUMENT IV.
Milton of Noth.
January 29th, 1883.
Mrs. Wiston, of Milton of Noth, to whose husband Moir acted as grieve,
gives a concordant account of the incident, under date January 29th,
1883, and adds :-
It was very strange that from the night of his dream until the day he dug
up the grave he never told anyone what was causing him to be so
absent and unhappy. He told me after that he felt he could not, although
the thought of it was sometimes like to deprive him of his reason. He then
spoke of it quite openly,and ssid it gave him no more trouble; but why this poor
man should have bad any trouble with it at all seems to me incomprehensible.
He was more than an ordinary, honest, hardy, straightforward man, much
respected by Mr. Wilson and also his former masters. Neither he nor any of
his relatives had ever been in that part of the country until he was sent from
Milton to take charge of the farm.
Miss M. F. Reid, whose father was in 1872 parish minister of Auchendoir,
Aberdeenshire, gives a concordant, but more detailed account, and adds :-
Febntary 24th, 1883.
Any addition to the statement of Mrs. Wilson, which you may find in my
account, I have taken from notes of the story I made at the time, as related
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death.
to me by reliable persons in the district where I lived, who knew Moir
before his migration to this sea-board farm. I remember distinctly being
told then that Moir's reticence--as he said afterwards-during these months
in which he did not divulge his dream proceeded from an unaccountable
feeling, as if he himself had somehow been witness of, or implicated in, the
murderous act. This does not quite come out in the Wilson narrative, but
I know this fact impressed itself on me at the time, and I remember
thinking that did I believe the doctrine of metempsychosis, this circumstance
would have indicated that in some other phase of existence Moir had
witnessed the deed, which on his revisiting the spot he now became coJllCious
of through the medium ofthis confused dream. The revolution in his fee1ings,
after the whole circumstance became known, was most remarkable. Moir
then spoke feelingly of the matter in all its details, and said his former
morbid feelings seemed like the memory of a painful dream.
MARy F. REm.
If in this case we reject-as it seems to me that we are forced to
reject-both the hypothesis of chance coincidence and the hypothesis of
hypenesthesia, we are confronted with a conception of a strange and
painful kind. A man-himself, as the tradition hints, not blameless-
is murdered in a bedroom of a. Scotch farmhouse. His body is carried
out and hastily buried in the open field. For 40 years the murdered
man retains some consciousness of this tragedy. He broods over the
fact of his death in that room, his interment in that stony hillock. At
last the bedroom is occupied by a man sensitive to the peculiar influence
which (on our hypothesis) these broodings of deceased persons diffuse.
The dream of the dead passes into the dream of the living; it persists
in Moir's mind with the same intensity as in the murdered man's own
imagination. The purpose once achieved,-the discovery made,-the
ohlession ceases.
And we may indeed say that if we carry our ideas of telepathy into
an unseen world, this is the kind of haunting which we should expect
to find. We are dealing presumably with a world of influenCes j and
we can believe that a man may come within a current of influence
against which no ordinary means of self-defence can avail, and which
may persist as long as certain links between the unembodied and the
embodied mind hold good. And on the same principle we might
interpret the horror connected with the presence of a baby's corpse in
the roof ; referring this to some persistent current of influence from the
unhappy mother who presumably p1a.ced it there.
All this must at present be mere speculation; but at any rate these
discoveries of skeletons are in civilised countries so rare, that any account
of haunting which can be shown to have originated before the discovery
of the skeleton has considerable value as a coincidence.
I give another case of this kind (already alluded to), from Mrs.
Montague, Crackanthorpe, Newbiggin Hall, Westmoreland.
Digitized by Google
42 On Recognised Apparitions OCC'II/rring [July 8,
J'INM l1th, 1883.
IX.-Herewith my "Northamptonshirenights "__nddays, as accurately
told as I can. But, beyond being very real to me, I am afraid they won't avail
you much. For you see I heard nothing, saw nothing, neither did the maid.
I toa8 startled when my father told me of the rector's confe88ion as to the
"disagreeableneBB" ofthat end of the house-months afterwards-but what
made most impreBBion upon me was, that having battled through the night
with my vague terrors sUcceBBfully, I could tlOt sit in that arm-chair, in the
sunshine, next day, with the BOund of the cook singing over her work close
at hand.
In the summer of 1872, my father occupied a rectory house (passenham)
not far from Blisworth, in Northamptonshire, for a few weeks, and I went
down to spend three days with him and my mother at Whitsuntide ; my two
children and their nurse being already there. The room given to me was over
the dining-room; next door to it was the night nursery, in which my:nurse and
children slept, the rest of the inmates of the house being quite at the other
end of a rather long passage. I hardly slept at all the first (Saturday)night,
being po88eBBed with the belief that someone was in my room whom I should
shortly see. I heard nothing, and I saw nothing. The next morning,
Sunday, I did not go to church, but betook myself to the dining-room with a
book. It was, I remember, a perfectly lovely June moming. Before I had
been a quarter of an hour in the room, and whilst wholly interested in the
book, I was seized with a dread, of what I did not know ; but in spite of the
sunshine and the servants moving about the house, I found it more
intolerable to sitthere than it had been to remain in the room above the night
before, and 80, after a struggle, and feeling not a little ashamed, I left the
room and went to the garden. Sunday night was a repetition of Saturday.
I slept not at all, but remained in what I can only describe as a state of
expectation till dawn, and very thankfully I left on the Monday afternoon.
To my father and mother I said nothing of my two bad nights. The nurse
and children remained behind for another week. I noticed that the nurse
looked gloomy when I left her. and I put it down to her finding the country
dull, after London. When she returned she told me that she hoped she
would never have to go to stay in that house again. for she had not been able
to sleep there during the fortnight, being each night the prey of fears, for which
she could not account in any way. My father left this rectory at the end of
the summer ; and some time afterwards he was talking of the place to me,
and mentioned laughingly that before he entered it the rector had " thought
it right to let him know that that end of the house in which I and my
children were put up was said to be haunted, my room especially, and that
several of his visito~his sister in particular-had been much troubled by
this room being apparently entered, and steps and movements heard in the
dead of night. I do notlike to letyou come in," the rector added, " without
telling you this, though my own belief in it is small." Within, I think, a year
or 18 months at most of my father's leaving, the house had to undergo
considerable repair, and amongst others, a new floor had to be laid in the
dining-room. On taking up the old boards four or five (I forget which)
skeletons were found close under the boarding ina row, and also close to the
hearthstone. Some of the skulle ofthese skeletons were very peculiar in form.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death.
They were sent up to London for examination. I am ashamed tosay, at this
moment, I forget what was the exact verdict pronounced on them by the
experts.
The Rev. G. M. Capell, writing from Passenham Rectory, October,
1889, says: U I found seven skeletons in my dining-room in 1874."
In the above cases there is no account of the continuance of the
apparition or influence after the removal of' the skeleton. But I
will close this group with a narrative of an apparition observed in a
room from which a skeleton had been removed (without the percipient's
knowledge) some considerable time before the figure was seen.
X.-Sent by Mrs. Bevan, Plumpton House, Bury st. Edmund's.
The following account was written at my request by Mdlle. Julie
Marchand, whom I have known for 22 years as govemeea to my friends the
Andrewes. At the time of which she speaks, she was govemeea to the
De O--'s, and the scene ofthe story was a house in a street in Mannheim.
I read it to her to be sure that I clearly understood it ; and is, like all ghoat
srories, thoroughly 1mwbstantiaZ, though not therefore unreal. It was
written on the 23rd February, 1878, 30 years, at least, after the occurrence,
but not the lees very present to the mind of the writer. S. C. B.
The children's names were" Nette " (Antoinette) and Charlotte.
Mdlle. Marchand informs me (July, 1889) that she has had no other
hallucinations. She is not aware how long the skeleton had been removed
before the figure was seen.
Avant de commencer mon ricit, il faut que je donne une description de
ma chambre, qui ~tait une assez grande chambre, presque ca~, ayant une
tenture tree claire, ainsi que tous es meubles, qui ~taient aU8Bi de bois clair.
I ma I
toilet..
I
POrte I
monlitn
I
l toJ.lettesJ I toUettes I
des eDfaDa
porte de la
ohaInbre d't!tude
I
Digitized by Google
On .Recogniaed Appa1oitions occurring [July 8,
C'etait pendant Ie Carime de 184--. n faut que je mentionne que pre.
de mon lit j'avais une petite table, ou je p08&is une lampe, comme j'avais
l'habitude de lire touslea soire pour une heure et plus, lorsque j'etais couchae.
Sur la table au milieu de la chambre il y avait un lumignon, ce qu'on nomme ici
German night-lights, mais plus grand que ceux que j'ai vus ici. n etait mis
dana un grand verra d'eau claire, de sorte qu'il ne donnait aucune ombre.
n n'y avait aucun rideau dansla chambre excepte des rideaux aux fen&tres,
qui repoaaient sur la fen&tre lorsqu'ila etaient tires.
Un soir que j'etais couchae et les deux enfana dormant paisiblement,
j'eprouvai un sentiment comme celui qu'on eprouve en sentant une personne
pres de soi. J e levai lea yeux, et je vis devant moi, je puis a. peine dire une
ombre puisqu'une ombre vous apparait plate, mais c'etait plutOt lafigure d'un
homme que je vis distinctement ; seulement je ne pouvais distinguer lea
traits de 8& figure, qui etaient cachas parl'ombre d'un grand chapeau. Chose
extraordinaire pour moi, je n'eprouvai aucune frayeur. Je regardai la figure
longtemps, m'imaginant que c'etait une illusion de ma vue. Je me remis a.
lire ; apres un tempa je regardai de nouveau; la figure etait toujoura
immobile et a. la m&me place. A la fin j'eteignis la lumitlre, je tournai Ie dos
a. cette figure,et je m'endormia, pensant que ce n'etait qu'imagination.
La m@me chose arriva pendant pluaieura joura de suite. Craignant qu'on
ne se moquA.t de moi, je ne mentionnai la chose k ptt'lOnue. Les enfana etant
encore tNs jeunes, de 9 et 10 ans, ellea av&ient leur aouper a. 7 heures ; moi,
je deacendais a. 9 heuNs pour souper avec Ie Baroil. et la Baronne ;a. 10 heures
je montais ordinairement pour me coucher. Pendant ce temps Ie lumignon
restait aur la table, comme il etait toujoura allume lorsque lea enfana etaient
au lit ; puis la chambre d'etude restait ec1&iree pendant que j'etais en bas.
n faut que je dise que l'atnee dea enfana etait tres craintive.
Un soir que je montais apres souper j'entendis des cris d'angoisse terrible
dana la chambre a. coucher. J'y courus, et vis mon eltlve hora de son lit,
cherchant a. arracher hora de son lit sa areur, qui dormait profondement,
1& suppliant de se reveiller, lui disant, "Chare C., 0 reveille-toi."
Lorsque l'enfant me vit elle courut se coucher. Je lui dis aimplement,
"J'eapere que tu ne feras plus un tel tapage." Le lendemain l'enfant
paraisaait si miserable qu'elle m'inquieta un peu. Je lui demandai si
elle etait malade ou non; elle me repondit, "Non, je suis bien."
L'idee me vint de la questionner sur Ie sujet de 8& frayeur de hier au soir, car
j'etais sftre que son etat d'@tre provenait de 8& frayeur de hier au soir. Je la
pria dana une chambre Reule pour 1& queationner. Pendant longtemps je ne
pus rien lui faire avouer ; enfin, apres lui avoir promis qu'elle ne serait pas
grondee, qu'elle pourrait me dire quelle absurdite elle voudrait, que je
desirais 8&voir la cause de 8& peurafin de lui parler l8.-dessus, enfin, apres bien
des hesitations elle me dit, "Je sais que ce n'est pas vrai, mais cela cependant
m'efl'raye." Elle me dit : "DEls que vous descendez on frappe /I. la porte de
la chambre d'etude, et au pied de mon lit je vois un homme." Cela me
frappa. Je lui dis, "Je voudrais bien 8&voir comment ton imagination
efl'rayee te Ie represente." Elle me dit, "Je 8&is que ce n'eat pas ~i," mais
enfin elle me dit il porte un long manteau, avec un long col, un chapeau avec
la tate basse, avec une large aile. J'eus presque peur que l'enfant ne vit mon
etonnement, car c'etait exactement la m@me figure que j'avais vu plusieura
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 45
fois auparavant debout devant rna commode, entre deux lumieres et peut-Atre
a quatre ou cinq pieda de moi.
Aprea bien des reflexiona je me dtScidai a mentionner 18 chose au Baron,
puisque j'etais sill-e que la Baronne ne ferait que s'en moquer. Je craignais
que l'imagination de l'enfant, frappee ainai, a tort ou a raison, pourrait nuire
ala sante. Le Baron, contre mon attente, devint si serieux que j'etais
et.onnee. n me dit, .• Je viendrai ce soir dansla chambre d'etude et nona
parlerona de choses indifferentea," car je savais que N. ne dormirait pas
jusqu'a ceque je fusse au lit. Nona attendtmes jusqu'a. pres 11 heures ; nona
n'entendtmes qu'un bruit qui pouvait etre occasionne par des souris, mais
.apm un certain temps nous entendtmes mon nom, aussi distinctement que
possible, provenant d'un coin de la chambre. J'allai dana la chambre a
coucher ; je demandai a N. si elle m'avait appele. Elle etait tout a. fait
reveillee et elle me dit non. Le Baron me dit, "Demain les enfans
quitteront cepaller... On nona donna deux chambres au plain-pied. Quand
nona edDles quitte nos chambres, Ie Baron me dit, " En faisant les armoires
dana la salle d' etude on a trouve une squelettedana Ie mur." Je nel'avais
jamais su auparavant. J'avais habite ces chambres pendant des annees sana
jamais avoir rien vu ni entendu, excepte cette annee. Plus tard ces mAmes
appartements furent habites par les deux neveux orphelina, avec leur
gouverneur. TIs ne virent jamais rien. Plna tard je sm allee tres souvent
dana ces appartements sana rien voir.
Quoique je puisae dire avec verite que j'ai regarde cette figure maintes
fois, me frottant les yeux, et que je n'ai jamais vu 1& figure disparaitre, et que
je me sm endormie, la laisaant ala mAme place, je n'ai jamais eu peur, ce
qui me fait croire que je n'ai jamais pense que la chose etait reelle.
We have now discussed most of the recent cases where a definite
motive-reasonable or unreasonable-can be plausibly suggested for the
behaviour of a pOBt-mortem phantasJn. Such motivedcases form a smaIl
proportion only of the na.rra.tives of ghostly appearances. On the view
here advanced, this was likely to be the case; tke great majority of
Buch manifestations were likely to have no distinct meaning or purpose.
In popular tradition, on the other hand, the meaning, the object, of a
ghost's appearance is apt to make the principal point of the story.
Accordingly we find that when ghosts have no motive it has been
thought necessary to invent one; and houses where haunting figures
occur have been lavishly decorated with ancient tragedies-murders and
suicides of the most shadowy type-in order to justify the phantasmal
visits.
All these dim unhistorical stories we must set aside. We must
realise the fact that haunting figures usually occur without any such
sensational background. And we must simply consider the few
indications as to their true nature which the actual evidence offers.
In the first pla.ce, and having regard to the popular division of
hauntinga into local and personal cases,-haunted houses and haunted
metI,-we observe that the evidence for haunted men is of a very weak
Digitized by Google
46 On Recognised Appari,tiom occu,rring [July 8,
order. That is to say, in few of the cases where a man is troubled with
the same phantom, recurring again and again in different places, is
there reason to class the apparition as more than a mere subjective
ha.llucination. We do not find modem parallels to confirm the
often-cited story of Mdlle. Claizon, who was haunted nightly by
the sound of a pistol shot (connected with the dying threat of a
slighted lover), which sound is said to have been heard equa.1ly
by other persons present at the time. The drift of the evidence, I
repeat, makes not for haunted men but for haunted places. It tends
to show that figures resembling deceased persons are sometimes seen
in the former habitat of those persons, under circumstances which
make their explanation as after-images or as chance-resemblances im-
probable. It is plain, however, that these figures can seldom occur
under good evidential conditions. If I see the figure of my dead friend
in the room in which he lived, you may say that this was a mere after-
image; a vivid recollection of how my friend used to look. If you,
who never knew my friend, see a phantom in the same house, you do
no. realise whom the phantom represents. To make evidence, our two
visions must be juxtaposed; and your description of the figure must
be identified with the known figure which I saw. This may be done,
and has been done, more or less perfectly, in a variety of ways. Or, of
course, a mere single vision of an unrecoguised figure may be in itself
strongly evidential, if only the percipient can identify the personage,
with proper precautions, from picture or photograph.
But there is no part of our inquiry where more care as to evidential
conditions is needed, or where less care has actually been used. In
our former discussions on apparitions coincident with a death, we found
that even the strongest personal interest in the vision was often in-
sufficient to induce the percipient to record it properly, or to collect the
most necessary corroborations. And in these cases of so-called " haunt-
ing" the meaning of the apparition is still less the personal concern of
any given percipient. Posterity-let us hope-will smile at the tone
of many of the accounts which people give of such experiences,-their
sense of personal injury at the idea that such a thing should happen to
tke~-their unabashed avowal of having been terribly frightened at a
poor phantom which could not hurt a fly. While there is so much
diffused timidity in regard to the so-called" supernatural," the owners
of house-property naturally take the fact into account, and conceal
well-attested ghosts as carefully as defective cesspools. The result is
that we have a great number of incomplete narratives,-narratives
which do not indeed break down, but which stop short i-the experience
of one percipient being given first-hand and in detail, but other cor-
roborative experiences being promised, perhaps, and then withdrawn, or
given with restrictions which render them useless as evidence. In this
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 47
department we have repeatedly had reason to believe that unwilling
informants have minimised or even denied their own experiences, from
the quite groundless fear that we might so use their narratives as to
depreciate the letting value of the haunted residence. We trust that
with a truer conception of the facts im'olved these repugnances are
already beginning to give way; but they have thus far kept most of
our evidence for hauntings in a state ill-suited for public producti~n.
There are various cases where from my knowledge of the infor-
mants,-and (if I may so say) of the non-informants,-I see strong
reason for believing that something supernormal has occurred. But
there are few cases which I can print in anything like a complete form.
The publication of even a few narratives, however, may do something
to remove vulgar prejudice, and to prompt to further inquiry.
"It came to nothing"; "What was the meaning of it t" ; " It
seems such a senseless thing for a departed spirit to do" i-such are
the usual comments on the purposeless class of manifestations on which
we enter now. I have already implied that this very purposelessness,
in my view, ought apriori to have been expected, and forms a strong
argument in favour of the origination of these phantoms somewhere
outside the observer's mind. For I hold that now for the first time
can we form a conception of ghostly communications which shall in
any way consist or cohere with more established conceptions; which
can be presented as in any way a development of facts which are
already experimentally known. Two preliminary conceptions were
needed,-conceptions in one sense ancient enough; but yet the first of
which has only in this generation found its place in science, while the
second is as yet awaiting its brevet of orthodoxy. The first conception
is that with which hypnotism and various automatisms have familiarised
us,-the conception of multiplex personality, of the potential c0-
existence of many states and many memories in the same individual.
The second is the conception of telepathy; of the action of mind on
mind apart from the ordinary organs of sense; and especially of its
action by means of hallucinations; by the generation of veridical
phantasms which form as it were messages from men still in the flesh.
And I believe that these two conceptions are in this way connected,
that the telepathic message generally starts from, and generally
impinges upon, a sub-conscious or submerged stratum in both agent
and percipient.! Wherever there is hallucination,-whether delusive
or veridical,-I hold that a message of some sort is forcing its way
upwards from one stratum of personality to another,-a message which
may be merely dreamlike and incoherent, or which may symbolise a
fact otherwise unreachable by the percipient personality. And the
1 See Pkafltalml o/eM Lf,11;/n{l, Vol. I., p. 23L
Digitized by Google
48 On Recogni8ed Apparitions oCC'U'l'Ting [July 8,
mechanism seems much the same whether the messa.ge's path be
continued within one individual or pass between two i-whether A's
own submerged self be signalling to his emergent self, or B be
telepathically stimulating the hidden fountains of perception in A.
If anything like this be true, it seems plainly needful that
all that we know of abnormal or supernormal communications
between minds, or states of the same mind, still embodied in flesh,
should be searched for analogies which may throw light on this
strangest mode of intercourse between embodied and disembodied
minds. Our steps on this uncertain ground must needs be short and
wavering. But they may help to mark the right direction for future
inquiry, and to dispel certain vulgar preconceptions which can only
mislead.
A communication (if such a thing exists) from a departed person
to a. person still on earth is at any rate a com~unication from a mind
in one state of existence to a mind in a very different state of existence.
And it is, moreover, a communication f~m one mind to another which
passes through some channel other than the ordinary channels of sense;
-since on one side of the gulf no material sense-organs exist. It will
apparently be an extreme instance of both these classes-of communi-
cations between state and state,] and of telepathic communications;
and we ought, therefore, to approach it by considering the less advanced
cases of both these types.
On what occasions do we commonly find a mind conversing with
another mind not on the same plane with itse1f 7- with a mind
inhabiting in some sense a different world, and viewing the environ-
ment with a difference of outlook greater than the mere difference of
character of the two personages will account for 7
The first instance of this sort which will occur to us lies in
spontaneous somnambulism,-or colloquy between a person asleep and
a. person awake. And observe here how slight an accident allows us
to enter into converse with a. state which at first sight seems a type of
incommunicable isolation. "Awake, we share our world," runs the old
saying, "but each dreamer inhabits a world of his own." Yet the
dreamer, apparently so self-enclosed, may be gently led, or will
spontaneously enter, into converse with waking men.
The somnambulist,-or rather the somniloquist,-forit is the talking
rather than the wa1king which is the gist of the matter,-is thus our
first natural type of the revenant.
1 Some word iB much needed to expreaa communicatiOI1ll between one state and
another-e.g., between the aomnambulic and the waking state, or, in hypnotism, the
cataleptic and the aomnambulic, &C. The word "methectic" (p.f6fICT'IIC0s) seems to me
the moat suitable l-pecially since p.l8fEIf happens to be the word used by Plato
(Parm. 132 D.) for participation between ideas And concrete objects. Or the word
" inter·state .. might be preued into this new duty,
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year afteT Death. 49
And observing the habits of somnambulists we note that the degree
in which they can communicate with other minds varies greatly in
different cases. One sleep-waker will go about his customary avocations,
without recognising the presence ·of any other person whatever.
Another will recognise certain persons only; or will a.nswer when
addressed, but only on certain subjects i-his mind coming into contact
with other minds only on a very few points. Rarely or never will a
somnambulist spontaneously notice what other persons are doing, and
adapt his own a.ctions thereto.
Next let us tum from natural to induced sleep-waking i-from
idiopathic somnambulism to the hypnotic trance.-Heretoo, throughout
the difTMent stages of the trance, we find a varying and partial (or
elective) power of communication.-Sometimes the entranced subject
makes no sign whatever. Sometimes he seems able to hear and answer
one person, or certain persons, and not others.-Sometimes he will talk
freely to all; but however freely he may talk, he is not exa.ctly his
waking self.-And as a rule he has no recollection, or a very imperfect
recollection, in waking life of what he has said or done in his trance.
Judging, then, from such a.nalogy as communications from one
living state to another can suggest to us, we shall expect that the
communication of a disembodied or discarnate person with an incarnate,
if such exist, will be subject to narrow limitations, and very possibly
will not form a part of the main current of the supposed discarnate
consciousness.
Looking back upon some of the cases above given, we shall recognise
that this description is at any rate consistent with their details, so far
as it goes. The phantasmal figure has rarely seemed to meet the living
percipient with any direct attention, but rather to be working out some
fore-ordained suggestion with little reference to any other mind.
And now to take the other aspect of the analogy which presented
itself. Let us consider the characteristics of telepathic communication;
since the intercourse of the discarnate with the incarnate,-however
different it may be from thought-tra.nsference among living persons,-
must, at least, be ka different from thought-transference than from
ordinary speech or gesture.
Beginning, then, with small experimental cases of thought-trans-
ference, we observe that the agent who projects a mental picture is
not commonly aware whether he has succeeded in transfering it or no;
and we also observe that it is often imperfectly tra.nsferred, or
incorrectly realised by the percipient. Analogically, we may suppose
that the discarnate intelligence may project a picture into some living
mind without being aware that he has done so; and moreover, that
this picture, as realised by the living person, may differ considerably
from the picture existing in the discarnate mind. Our next step is
E
Digitized by Google
50 On Recognised Apparitions occurring. [July 8,
still more important. For we come to cases where the image projected
before the percipient's consciousness is not that of a mere dia.gra.m., or
number, or material o~ject of any kind, but is an image of the
" agent" himself. Readers of PhantaamB ofthe 'Living will remember
that in these cases the agent is not usually aware of having produced
this effect on the percipient. There are, indeed, some instances where
he himself has some kind of corresponding impression,-as of seeing
the percipient at the moment when the percipient sees him,-and to
these we have given the name of reciprocal cases. And in many cases
it is impossible to say whether this reciprocity existed or no, since the
agent dies almost at the moment of the apparition. Still, these cases
as a whole confirm the view already suggested, that the agent in
apparitions is not necessarily conscious of the effect which he is in
some way producing. And, finally, there is a small but very instructive
group of cases where the agent has voluntarily induced an apparition
of himself to a distant percipient, as a matter of experiment i-acting
thus as nearly as possible in the way in which we may imagine a
departed friend to act, if he desires to make an impression of his
presence upon a friend who survives. What, then, is the behaviour of
the apparition thus produced' How far does it indicate intelligence or
initiative 7 How far does its action form a part of the normal train of
consciousness-or enter into the normal train of memory-of the agent
from whom it in some way emanates7 Let us consider the principal
cases of this kind recorded in PhantaamB ofthe Li1Ji.ng.
Case 13, Vol. I., p. 103.-Figure speaks-uncertain with what
amount of intelligence. Agent (asleep at the time) is not conscious of
having succeeded in appearing.
Cases 14, 15, 16, Vol. I., p. 104-109.-Mr. S. H. B.'s figure is seen,
on four occasions, as willed by him. On three of the occasions he is
asleep, on the fourth in a state of self-induced trance-like concentration.
-In no case does he know afterwards whether he has succeeded or
not.-On one occasion the figure performs a trifling act which Mr.
S. H. B., had willed that it should perform. On another occasion it
performs a similar action without any previous intention on Mr. S. H.
B.'s part.
Case 685, V01 II., p. 671.-Mr. Cleave is hypnotised; sees a
room at a distance; is twice seen in that room.-In this case the agent
remembers his own apparent presence in the distant room.-The
figure merely stands in the room; does not act.
Case 686, Vol. II., p. 675.-Mrs. Russell, in waking state, desires
intensely to become manifest to her family at a distance (Scotland
to Germany). She is seen ; has no knowledge of having been thus seen.
Case given, Vol. I., p. lxxxi.-Mr. Godfrey three times wills to be
perceived by a certain person. Twice his figure is perceived,-on the
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 51
third occasion he fails.-After each success he had a vague knowledge
that he had succeeded.-On one occasion the figure seems to speak
but only a word.
Case given in Journal.-Baron v. Notzing, in waking conditions,
desires to impress himself upon a person out of sight. He succeeds;
bas no knowledge that he has succeeded.
It will be seen that these cases which, as we have said, ought
theoretically to form the closest parallel to post-mortem apparitions,
do in effect actually present us incidents strongly resembling the
behaviour of those posthumous phantoms.
To put the matter in a crude way; the behaviour of phantasms of
the living suggests dres.ms dreamt by the living persons whose phantoms
appear. And similarly the behaviour of phantasms of the dead suggests
dreams dreamt by the deceased persons whose phantasms appear. The
actions of these phantasms may therefore be expected to be vague and
meaningless, or at any rate to offer little response or adaptation to the
actions of the persons who observe them. For they will presumably
be conditioned either by some definite previous self-suggestion, (as in
S. H. B.'s case, above cited), or by some automatic recurrence to a
familiar train of associations.
And under the heading of "automatic recurrence" we ought
probably to place the appearances which seem to depend on locali.ty
alone. Whatever position the departed may" hold towards space,-
whether they inhabit our space, or some other form of space, or are
extra-spatial entities,-we must suppose that their memory deals with
the space-relations of the past. And if there be a memory of space,
this is in itself a relation to space. If the decedent recollects scenes
which he has known, then we may conceive that this recollection of his
may become somehow perceptible to other minds.
The notion that unembodied intelligences can have any relation to
space may appear to some minds as unphilosophical. It seems to lead
on to those primitive forms of materialism; those savage conceptions of
the spirits of the dead, which modern SpiritualiSm undoubtedly repro-
duces under a new colour, but which philosophy has learnt to disdain.
We can, however, form no real conception of a disembodied existence;
and it is better not to assume as a matter of course either any
resemblances or any differences from our own condition beyond what
the actual evidence points to. And at any rate this conception of
a tkad mtf,ff,', dream,-of a probably unconscious gravitation of some
fraction of his disembodied entity towards his old associations;-6
flowing of some backwater of his being's current into channels familiar
long ago i-will serve to supply a fairly coherent conception of the
meaning of those vague ktJtmting' into which, as we have seen, our
narratives of recognised post-mortem apparitions imperceptibly glide.
B2
Digitized by Google
52 On hcognised Apparitions occv,rring [July 8,
The strong and weak points of the evidence for recognised appari-
tions and for vague hauntings a.re in some sense complementary to
each other. Recognised apparitions have an obvious meaning, but
weak attestation j vague ha.untings have strong attestation, but are
hard to interpret. If recognised apparitions of the dead, under
circumstances precluding the possibility of mere subjective hallucina.-
tion, occurred BO frequently that chance-coincidence were excluded, we
should have a right to 8.BBume that the so-ca.lled dead were still in some
way influencing the living. But, a.s we have seen, the evidence to such
appearances is a.s yet so scanty that although personally I incline to
accept it, I cannot present it to others a.s at present conclusive. On
the other hand, the evidence that in certain hoUBeB several persons
have had hallucinations, independently of each other, and beyond the
limits of chance-coincidence, is, I think (a.s Mrs. Sidgwick's paper in
Vol. III. showed), exceedingly strong. The question remains a.s to
what the meaning may be of these localised, recurrent hallucinationsj
-whether they indeed bear any relation to departed men. And the
grotesqueness of these haunting phenomena,-their unlikeness to any
effect which a reasonable decedent might be expected to wish to
produce,-ha.s been a strong argument against a.scribing them to the
agency of a departed spirit.
But these incongruities seem less puzzling if we regard these
haunting sights and BOunds a.s the fragmentary reflection of some dead
man's ineradicable dream. On tha.t view we need not look for reason
in what is unrea.sonable, for purpose from what is purposeless. For
though in the la.st resort it would be an intelligence like our own from
which these phenomena would spring, yet that intelligence would be
one with which we could enter into no real community. We should be
observing and analysing,-not messages from those who love, nor
revelations from those who know,-but the incoherent nightmare, the
incognisable reverie, of the innumerable unremembered dead.
These reflections apply to a great number of narratives of haunting
which, a.s above explained, are in themselves almost necessarily tedious
and inconclusive. I will give one or two only at length j but will first
briefly indicate the character of BOme of the rest.
We have, for example, a ca.se (" the Gillingham ghost") where
three persons separately see the figure of an old woman in a house
where an old woman, reputed of similar a.spect, used to reside. We
have a ca.se where a young man reading with a tutor (at Waterperry,
near Oxford) sees a phantom of a farmer of very upright carriage on a
bridge where, (unknown to the percipient,) a farmer, formerly a
soldier, had been found dead some years before. We have a ca.se
where a lady sees the figure of a. young girl run across a room (at
Combermere Abbey), which room had previously been the nursery
Digitized by Google
1889.] MO'1'6 than a Year after Death. 53
in which (as family tradition, unknown to the percipient, went) a
16-yea.r-old daughter of the house had been found one morning dead
in her bed. We have a case where three persons independently sa.w
the phantom figure of a young woman (at B. Court). One of these
percipients, at least (probably all of them), remarked (in 1881) that the
head of the figure was not visible. In 1883 a skull was discovered
beneath t,he foundl!otions of the room into which this figure disappeared.
We have several cases of an isolated hallucination seen in a room
which had previously been frequented by a person resembling the
figure seen,-this fact being unknown to the percipient. Thus Mr.
A. W. Hall, of St. Thomas's House, Oxford, tells us how he sa.w a
venerable old man "sitting writing at the table in the centre of the
room in which I was," the room being one in which there had, in fact,
been previous rumours (unknown to Mr. Hall) of the appearance of
Lord Hood, Mr, Hall's great-grandfather, whom he had never seen.
And through the kindness of the Bishop of Ripon we have procured
the following narrative from Mrs. Pittar (a near connection of the
Bishop's), whose verbal account was given to us in nearly the sa.me
words. I print the case ;-not as possessing high evidential value, for
the identification of the figure is plainly conjectural; but in the hope
that some reader may be able to get further information as to the
Chltea.u de Prangins,-an easily accessible place.
XL-In the year 1867 I was travelling in Switzerland with my husband,
and we stopped at the Chlteau de Prangius, near Nyon, which is now a
collegiate achool for boys.
Our bedroom was a large, oblong room, overlooking the Terrace and Lake
Leman, with an old-fashioned black writing-table in the middle of it. There
was nothing unusual about the room or the circumstances, and I went to bed
and slept soundly. But in the middle of the night I suddenly awoke in a
state of terror, not, apparently, from a dream, for I had no impre88ion of
having beendreaming, but witha sort ofcertainty that a tall, thin, old man, in
a long flowered dressing-gown, was seated and writing at the table in the
middle of the room. I cannot say what gave me this certainty, or this
distinct picture, for I did notonce turn my eyes to the place where I felt that
the intruder was seated. n did not, in fact, occur to me at the time how odd
it was that I thus knew of his appearance without seeing him. The room was
flooded with brilliant moonlight ; but I did not venture to turn my head.
My cries awoke my husband, who naturally thought that I had had a night-
mare, and could not understand my persistent assertion that an old man in a
flowered dressing-gown was in the room. At last he persuaded me to look at
the table where I had felt that the old man was sitting ; and there was no
one there.
Next morning my husband mentioned my extraordinary nocturnal terror;
the account, to our great surprise, was received as a matter of course, the
landlord's married daughter merely remarking, "Ah, you have seen
Voltaire." It appeared on inquiry that Voltaire, in extreme old age, used
Digitized by Google
54 On Recognised Apparitions OCCVIM";'ng [July 8,
often to visit this CMteau, then the property, I believe, of Lucien Bonaparte,
and the room in which we slept was known to have been his sitting-room. Of
thisneither my husband nor myself knew anything. I had not been thinking
about Voltaire, nor looking at any portrait of him, nor did it once occur to
me that the figure could be his until I heard that morning from the landlord
that the same figure was reported to have been seen in the IlIlome room, and
that it was supposed to be Voltaire's.
I have never had any other hallucination of any kind.
1885. EMILY PrrrAB.
How long after death-we may ask, aprOPOB of this story of
Voltaire-is there any evidence for the continued action of the
departed 1
There are a good many accounts of appearances primA. facie
representing persons dead for 50 or 100 years. But obviously the
cases where identifoation of so remote a figure is possible are likely to
be also cases where there may have been some kind of anticipation 011
the percipient's part ;-some association of a famous personage (the
Empress Catherine of Russia., &:c.), with rooms which that personage is
known to have inhabited.
We have a few cases where an unrecognised figure in old-fashioned
costume has been seen by more than one person, simultaneously or
successively. Thus a phantom in cavalier's garb was seen in daylight
by two percipients together in an avenue at Twickenham. The
evidential value of such cases will depend on the view which we
ultimately adopt as to whether collective hallucinations are ever woolly
delusive, or imply some sort of reality outside the percipients' minds.
There is a case investigated by Dale Owen (FootfallB, p. 304)
which, unless it be an elaborate and purposeless hoax, stands almost
alone in the definiteness of date and communication. This was given
to Mr. Owen by the two principal percipients,-the "wife of a field-
officer of high rank in the British army" and a young lady, her friend
and visitor. It was also independently confirmed by a Mrs. 0., who
had been a servant in the house at the time of the occurrences. The
story seems too complex to admit of being explained away by anything
short of an elaborate hoax played on Mr. Owen; and it seems
improbable that these ladies should have contrived such a deceit, or
should have induced the former nurse to take part in it, or should have
allowed the story, if false, to be printed and reprinted without
comment. Mr. Owen, it must be remembered, was a man of the world
and a diplomatist j-in no wayan absurd personage, but liked and
esteemed in good society in several countries. We have endeavoured
in vain to trace the percipients; and even the house (now, ~ Owen
says, a farmhouse) could not be positively identified by an inquiry
which we caused to be made on the spot.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 55
The gist of the story is that, after many noises heard at Ramhurst
Manor by various persons, three figures appeared to Miss S., and one of
them also to Mrs. R., and that to both percipients the figures gave the
surname of Children, adding that Richard Children, one of the figures,
died in 1753. In Hasted's History of Kent (published 1778) the facts
of Richard Children's residence at Ramhurst Manor, of his having a
wife and son, and of his death in 1753, were verified.
To this cl&88 of cases belongs the remarkable narrative which forms
the gist of Mr. Hugh Hastings Romilly's TnMJ Story of tllS Western
Pacific (Longmans, 1882). Mr. Romilly has since been Deputy-
Commissioner of the Western Pacific. On his book Mr. Gurney has
the following note :-
This book gives one the highest opinion of its writer's strength of
character, as well as of his modesty. Mr. Romilly's muther, Lady Elizabeth
Romilly, assures me that the story is rather under-coloured than exaggerated,
and that it is a most literal transcript of events, which Mr. H. H. Romilly
wrote out, very unwillingly, at his father's urgent request.-E. G.
I give an abstract of the incident, which is at any rate interesting
as one of the few recorded cases of really close scrutiny into the
grounds of a savage belief by a cool and capable observer.
XII.-In the earlier part of his narrative, Mr. Romilly has described the
murder on Christmas Eve, 1879, of a native called Kimueli, in the island
of Rotumah, by an Australian half-caste, who was afterwards convicted of
the crime. Mr. Romilly had seen the wounded man before his death. "A
piece of coarse cloth or calico was over the top of the head, and round it,
to keep it in its place, were strips of banana leaves. The whole was secured
with cotton and strips of fibre." Next year at the same season, Mr.
Romilly, with a friend named Allardyce, was inhabiting a house in Rotumah,
about 200 yards from the house of a friendly in1luential native called Alipati,
or Albert, who used usually to come with other friends and smoke with
Mr. Romilly in the evening.
For two days before Christmas Day this man Albert did not appear; and
Mr. Romilly learnt that he was afraid to walk from one house to the other
because Kimueli's ghost had been repeatedly seen.
Of course I laughed at him. It was an every-day occurrence for natives
who had been out late at night in the bush to come home saying they had
seen ghosts. If I wished to send a me888ge after sunset, it was always neces-
sary to engage three or four men to tske it. Nothing would have induced any
lnan to go by himself. The only man who was free from these fears was my
interpreter, Friday. He was a native, but had lived all his life among white
people. When Friday came down from his own village to my houBe that
moming, he was evidently a good deal troubled in his mind. He said :
" You remember that man Kimueli, Bir, that Tom killed."
I said, "Yes, Albert says he is walking about."
I expected Friday to laugh, but he looked very serious and said :
" Every one in Motusa has Been him, sir ; the women are 80 frightened
that they all sleep together in the big house."
Digitized by Google
56 On :&cognised Apparitions ocC'Ul1"1'ing [July 8,
.. What does he do 1" said I. "Where has he been to 1 What men
have seen him 1"
FridAy mentioned a number of houses into which Kimuell had gone. It
appeared that his head was tied up with banana leaves and his face covered
with blood. No one had heard him speak. This was unusual, as the ghosts
I had heard the natives talk about on other occasions invariably made
remarks on some commonplace subject. The village was very much upset.
For two nights this had happened, and several men and women had been
terribly frightened. It was evident that all this was not imagination on the
part of one man. I thought it possible that some madman was personating
Kimueli, though it seemed almost impossible that anyone could do so
without being found out. I announced my determination to sit outside
Albert's house that night and watch for him. I also told Albert that I should
bring a rifle and have a shot, if I saw the ghost. This I said for the benefit
of anyone who might be playing its part.
Poor Albert had to undergo a good deal of chaff for being afraid to walk
200 yards through the bush to my house. He only said :
" By-and-bye you see him too, then me laugh at you."
The rest of the dAy was spent in the usual manner. Allardyceand I were
to have dinner in Albert's house ; after that we were going to sit outside and
watch for Kimueli. All the natives had come in very early that day from the
bush. They were evidently unwilling to run the risk of being out after dark.
Evening was now closing in, and they were all sitting in clusters outside their
houses. It was, however, a bright moonlight night, and I could plainly
recognise people at a considerable distance. Albert was getting very nervous,
and only answered my questions in monosyllables.
For about two hours we sat there smoking, and I was beginning to lose
faith in Albert's ghost, when all of a sudden he clutched my elbow and
pointed with hisfinger. I looked in the direction pointed out by him, and he
whispered " Kimueli."
I certainly saw about 100 yards off what appeared to be the ordinary
figure of a native advancing. He had something tied round his head, as yet
I could not see what. He was advancing straight towards us. We sat still
and waited. The natives sitting in front of their doors got closer together
and pointed at the advancing figure. All this time I was watching it most
intently. A recollection of having seen that figure was forcing itself upon my
mind more strongly every moment, and suddenly the exact scene, when I had
gone with Gordon to visit the murdered man, came back on my mind with
great vividness. There was the same man in front of me, his face covered
with blood, and a dirty cloth over his head, kept in its place by banana-leaves
which were secured with fibre and cotton thread. There was the same man,
and there was the bandage round his head, leaf for leaf, and tie for tie,
identical with the picture already present in my mind.
"By Jove it it Kimueli," I said to Allardyce in a whisper. By this time
he had passed us, walking straight in the direction of the clump of bush in
which my house was situated. We jumped up and gave chase, but he got to
the edge of the bush before we reached him. Though onlya few yards ahead
of us, and a bright moonlight night, we here lost all trace of him. He had
disappeared, and all that was left was a feeling of consternation and
Digitized by Google
1889.] M0f'6 tham, a YeaT afteT Death. 57
annoyance on my mind. We had to accept what we had seen ; no explana-
tion was pouible. It was impossible to account for his appearance or
disappearance. I went back to Albert'a house in a moat perplexed frame of
mind. The fact of its being Christmas Day, the anniversary of Tom'a attack
on Kimueli, made it atill more remarkable.
I had myself only aeen Kimueli two or three timea in my life, but atill I
remembered him perfectly, and the man or ghost, whichever it was who had
just pasaed, exactly recalled his featurea. I had remembered, too, in a general
way how Kimueli'a head had been bandaged with rag and banana-leaves, but
on the appearance of this figure it came back to me exactly, even to the
position of the knots. I could not then, and do not now, believe it was in the
power of any native to play the part 80 exactly. A native could and often
does work himself up into a atate of temporary madneu. under the influence
of which he might believe himself to be anyone he chose; but the calm,
quiet manner in which this figure had paaBed was, I believe, entirely
impouible for a native, acting auch a part, and before auch an audience, to
_me. Moreover, Albert and every one elae acouted the idea. They all
knew Kimueli intimately, had seen him every day and could not be mistaken.
Allardyce had never seen him before, but can bear witneu to what he 88W
that night.
I went back to my house and tried to dismisa the matter from my mind,
but with indifferent aucceB8. I could not get over his disappearance. We
were 80 close behind him, that if it had been a man forcing his way through
the thick undergrowth we must have heard and aeen him. There was no
path where he had disappeared.
[The figure was never aeen again.]
From this savage scene I pass to a similar incident which occurred
to a gentleman persona.lly known to me, (and widely known in the
scientific world), in a tranquil and studious environment. The initials
here given are not the true ones.
XIlI.-On October 12th, 1888, Mr. J. gave me mild 110Ce the following
account of his experience in the X. Library, in 1884, which I have taken
down from memory next day, and which he haa revised and corrected :-
II In 1880 I succeeded a Mr. Q. 88 librarian of the X. Library. I had
never seen Mr. Q., nor any photograph or likeneu of him, when the follow-
ing incidents occurred. I may, of course, have heard the library 888istants
deacribe his appearance, though I have no recollection of this. I W88 aitting
alone in· the library one evening late in March, 1884, finishing aome work
after hours, when it auddenlyoccurred to me that I ahould miaa the laat
train to H., where I W88 then living, if I did not make hute. It W88
then 10.55, and the laat train left X. at 11.5. I gathered up lOme botlka
in one hand, took the lamp in the other, and prepared to leave the librarian'a
room, which communicated by a pa888ge with the main room of the library.
As my lamp illumined this pa888ge, I 88W apparently at the further end of
it a man'a face. I instantly thought a thief had got into the library. This
W88 by no means impouible, and the probability of it hsd occurred to me
before. I turned back into my room, put down the books, and took a
revolver from the safe, and, holding the lamp cautioualy behind me, I made
Digitized by Google
58 On Recognised Apparitions occ'U/rring [July 8,
my way along the paaaage-which had a comer, behind which I thought my
thief might be lying in wait-into the main room. Hero I saw no one, but
the room was large and encumbered with bookcases. I called out loudly to
the intruder to show himself several times, more with the hope of attracting
a passing policeman than of drawing the intruder. Then I saw a face
looking round one of the bookcases. I say looking rouM, but it had an odd
appearance as if the body were in the bookcase, as the face came 80 closely
to the edge and I could see no body. The face was pallid and hairleaa, and
the orbits of the eyes were very deep. I advanced towards it, and as I did
80 I saw an old man with high shoulders seem to rotate out of the end of
the bookcase, and with his back towards me and with a shu1Bing gait walk
rather quickly from the bookcase to the door of a small lavatory, which
opened from the library and had no other acceB8. I heard no noise. I
followed the man at once into the lavatory; and to my extreme surprise
found no one there. I examined the window (about 14in. x 12in.), and
found it closed and fastened. I opened it and looked out. It opened into
a well, the bottom of which, 10 feet below, was a sky-light, and the top open
to the sky some 20 feet above. It was in the middle of the building and no
olle could have dropped into it without smashing the glass nor climbed out
of it without a ladder-but JlO one was there. Nor had there been any-
thing like tune for a man to get out of the window, as I followed the
intruder instantly. Completely mystified, I even looked into the little
cupboard under the fixed basin. There was nowhere hiding for a child, and
I confeBS I began to experience for the first time what novelists describe as
an 'eerie' feeling.
"I left the library, and found I had miMed my train.
"Next morning I mentioned what I had seen to a local clergyman, who,
on hearing my description, said, "Why that's old Q. !" Soon after I saw
a photograph (from a drawing) of Q., and the resemblance was certainly
striking. Q. had lost all his hair, eyebrows and all, from (I believe) a
gunpowder accident. His walk was a peculiar, rapid, high-shouldered
shufBe.
"Later inquiry proved he had died at about the time of year at which I
saw the figure.
"I have no theory as to this occurrence, and have never given special
attention to such matters. I have only on one other occasion seen a
phantasmal figure. When I was a boy of ten I was going in to early dinner
with my brothers. My mother was not at home, and we children had been
told that she was not very well, but though we miBSed her very much were
in no way anxious about her. Suddenly I saw her on the staircase. I
rushed up after her, but she disappeared. I cried to her and called to the
rest, "There's mother!" But they only laughed at me and bade me come
in to dinner. On that day-I am not sure as to the hour-my second sister
was born.
"I have had no other hallucinations. When I saw the figure of X. I was
in good health and spirits."
In a subsequent letter Mr. J. adds: "I am under a pledge to the X.
people not to make public the story in any way that would lead to identity.
Of course I shall be glad to answer any private inquiries, and am willing
Digitized by Google
1889.] MO're than a Year after Death. 59
that my name should be given in confidence to bond jid6 inquirera in the
usual way."
The evidential value of the above account is much enhanced by the fact
that the principal assistant in the library, Mr. R, and a junior clerk, Mr.
P., independently witneB8ed a singular phenomenon, thus described by Mr.
R. in 1889:-
"A few years ago I was engaged in a large building in the --, and
during the busy times was often there till late in the evening. On one
particular night I was at work along with a junior clerk till about 11 p.m.,
in the room marked A on the annexed sketch. All the lights in the place
had been out for hoUl'B except those in the room which we occupied. Before
leaving, we turned out the gas. We then looked into the fireplace, but not
a spark was to be seen. The night was very dark, but being thoroughly
accustomed to the place we carried no light. On reaching the bottom of the
staircase (B), I happened to look up j when, to my surprise, the room which
we had just left appeared to be lighted. I turned to my companion and
pointed out the light, and sent him back to see what was wrong. He went
at once and I stood looking through the open door, but I was not a little
astonished to see that as BOOn as he got within a few yards of the room the
light went out quite suddenly. My companion, from the position he was in
at the moment, could not see the light go out, but on his reaching the door
everything was in total darkneas. He entered, however, and when he
returned, reported that both gas and fire were completely out. The light in
the daytime was got by means of a glass roof, there being no windows on the
sides of the room, and the night in question was so dark that the moon
shining through the roof was out of the question. Although I have often
been in the same room till long after dark, both before and since, I have
never seen anything unusual at any other time.
" When the light went out my companion was at C." [marked on plan.]
Mr. P. endoraes this: "I confirm the foregoing statement."
In subsequent lettera Mr. R. says :-
"The bare facts are as stated, being neither more nor less than what
took place. I have never on any other occasion had any hallucination of the
senses, and I think you will find the same to be the case with Mr. P."
The light was seen after the phantom j but those who saw the light were
not aware that the phantom had been seen~ for Mr. J. mentioned the
circumstance only to his wife and to one other friend (who has confirmed to
us the fact that it was 80 mentioned to him), and he was naturally particu-
larly careful to give no hint of the matter to his assistants in the library.
In the Journo1 S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 207, will be found a tirst-hand
record, sent by the Rev. W. S. Grignon, "of two apparitions of the
same deceased peraon to two persons,-re1atives,-at intervals of two
to four years after the death-apparently on the same spot." Some
other cases which might have been noticed in the present paper will be
found in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on Phantasms of the Dead, already
cited. Specially important is the case of haunting in a modern villa
(Vol. III., p. 117), which haunting has continued since the publication
Digitized by Google
60 On Recognised ..Apparitions ocC'U/M"ing [July 8,
of Mrs. Sidgwick's paper, though we are not permitted to give any
account which might lead to recognition.
I will conclude my quoted cases with a somewhat painful and
complex narrative, which ought, I think, to be considered when we are
trying to form a conception as to the true significance of "haunting"
sounds and sights.
XIV.-The following case, which we owe to the kindness of Mr.
Wilfrid Ward (and of Lord Tennyson, for whom it was first committed
to writing some years ago), is sent by Mrs. Pennee, of St. Anne
de Beaupre, Quebec, daughter of the late Mr. William Ward (a
Conserva.tive M.P. for London), and sister of the late Rev. A. R. Ward,
of Cambridge.
Weston Manor, Freshwater, Isle of Wight.
1884.
It was in the year 1856 that my husband took me to live at a house called
Binstea.d, about five miles from Charlottetown, P. E. Island. It was a good-
sized house, and at the back had been considerably extended to allow of extra
offices, since there were about 200 acres of farm land around it, nece88itating
several resident farming men. Although forming part of the house, these
premises could only be entered through the inner kitchen, as no wall had
ever been broken down to form a door or passage from upstairs. Thus the
farming men's sleeping rooms were adjacent to those occupied by the family
and visitors, although there was no communication through the upstairs
corridor.
It was always in or near the sleeping apartment, immediately adjacent to
the men's, that the apparition was seen, and as that was one of our spare
bedrooms, it may have frequently been unperceived.
About 10 days after we had established ourselves at Binstea.d, we com-
menced hearing strange noises. For many weeks they were of very frequent
occurrence, and were heard simultaneously in every part of the house, and
always appeared to be in close proximity to each person. The noise was
more like a rumbling which made the house vibrate, than like that produced
by dragging a heavy body, of which one so often hears in ghost stories.
As spring came on we began to hear shrieks, which would grow fainter
or louder, as if someone was being chased round the house, but always
culminating ina regular volley ofshrieks, sobs, moans, and half-uttered words,
proceeding from beneath a tree thatstood at a little distance from the dining-
room window, and whose branches nearly touched the window of the
bedroom I have mentioned.
It was in February (I think), 1857, that the first apparition came under
my notice. Two ladies were sleeping in the bedroom. Of course, for that
season of the year a fire had been lighted in the grate, and the Jirepla.ce
really contained a grate and not an American substitute for one.
About 2 o'clock, Mrs. M. was awakened by a bright light which pervaded
the room. She saw a woman standing by the fireplace. In her left arm was
a young baby, and with her right hand she was stirring the ashes, over which
she was slightly stooping.
Digitized by Google
1889.] More than a Year after Death. 61
Mrs. M. pushed Mias O. to awaken her, and just then the figure turned
her face towards them, diacloling the features of quite a young woman with
a singularly anxious pleading look upon her face. They took notice of a
little check shawl which was CI'OII8ed over her bosom. Mias O. had previously
heard BOme tales concerning the house being haunted (which neither
Mrs. M. nor I had ever heard), so jumping to the conclusion that she
beheld a ghost, she screamed and pulled the bedclothes tightly over the
heads of herself and her companion, 80 that the sequel of the ghost's pro-
ceedings is unknown.
The following spring I went home to England, and just before starting I
had my own experience of seeing a ghost. I had temporarily established myself
in the room, and one evening, finding my little daughter (now Mrs. Amyot)
far from well, had her bed wheeled in beside mine that I might attend to
her. About 12 o'clock I got up to give her some medicine, and was feeling
for the matches when she called my attention to a brilliant lightshining under
the door. I exclaimed that it was her papa and threw open the door to admit
him. I found myself face to face with a woman. She had a baby on her left
arm, a check shawl crossed over her bosom, and all around her shone a
bright pleasant light, whence emanating I could not say. Her look at me
was one of entreaty-almost agonising entreaty. She did not enter the room
but moved across the staircase, vanishing into the opposite wall, exactly
where the inner man-servant's room was situated.
Neither my daughter nor myself felt the slightest alarm ; at the moment
it appeared to be a matter of common occurrence. When Mr. Peunae came
upstairs and I told him what we had seen, he examined the wall, the stair-
case, the passage, but found no traces of anything extraordinary. Nor did
my dogs bark.
On my return from England in 1858 I was informed that "the creature
had been carrying on," but it was the screams that had been the worst.
However, Harry (a farm-servant) had had several visits but would tell nC)
particulars. I never could get Harry to tell me much. He acknowledged
that the woman had several times stood at the foot of his bed, but he would
not tell me more. One night Harry had certainly been much disturbed in
mind, and the other man heard voices and sobs. Nothing would ever induce
Harry to let anyone share his room, and he was most careful to fasten his
door before retiring. At the time, I attached no importance to "his ways,"
as we called them.
In the autumn of the following year, 1809, my connection with Binstead
ceased, for we gave up the house and returned to Oharlottetown.
I left Prince Edward Island in 1861, and went to Quebec. In 1877 I
happened to return to the island, and spent several months there. One day I
was at the Bishop's residence, when the pariah priest came in with a letter in
his hand. He asked me about my residence at Binstead, and whether I could
throw any light on the contents of his letter. It was from the wife of the
then owner of Binstead, askinghim to come out and try to deliver them from
the ghost of a woman with a baby in her arms, who had appeared several
times.
After I went to live in Charlottetown I became acquainted with the
following facta, which seem to throw light on my ghost story.
Digitized by Google
62 On .Recognilled Apparitions occurring [July 8,
The ground on which Binstead stood had been cleared, in about 1840, by
a rich Englishman, who had built a very nice house. Getting tired of colonial
life, he sold the property to a man whose name I forget, but whom I will call
Pigott (that was like the name). He was a man of low tastes and immoral
habits; but a capital farmer. It was he who added all the back wing of the
house and made the nece88&ry divisions, &c., for farming the land. He
had two sisters in his service, the daughters of a labourer who lived in a
regular hovel, about three miles nearer town. After a time each sister gave
birth to a boy.
Very little can be learnt of the domestic arrangements, since Pigott bore
so bad a name that the house was avoided by respectable people ; but it is
certain that one sister and one baby disappeared altogether, though when
and how is a complete mystery.
When the other baby was between one and two years old, Pigott sold
Binstead to an English gentleman named Fellowes, from whom we hired it,
with the intention of eventually buying it. The other sister returned to her
father's house, and leaving the baby with Mrs. Newbury, her mother, went
to the States, and baa never returned. Before leaving she would reveal
nothing, except that the boy was her sister's, her own being dead. It was
this very Harry Newbury that we had unwittingly engaged as farm-servant.
He came to bid me farewell a few months after I left Binstead, saying he
would never return there. In 1877, I inquired about him, and found that
he had never been seen since in Prince Edward Island.
In another letter dated September 24th, 1887, Mrs. Pennee adds:-
Another fact baa come to my notice. A young lady, then a child of
from 5 to 10, remembers being afraid of sleeping alone when on a visit at
Binstead on account of the screams she heard outside, and also the "woman
with a baby," whom she saw paasingthrough her room. Her experience
goes back some 10 to 15 years before mine.
In a further letter, dated St. Anne de Beaupre, Quebec, January
23rd, 1889, Mrs. Pennee gives additional facts, as follows:-
(1) Mrs. PennlSe interviewed Father Boudreault, the priestsent for by the
C. family to exorcise the house. Father B., however, was on his death-bed;
and although he remembered the fact that he had been sent for to Binstead
for this purpose, he could not recollect what had been told him as to
apparitions, &c.
(2) Mrs. M., who first saw the figure, baa gone to England, and cannot
now be traced. Mrs. PennlSe adda:-" The lady in question told several people
that she saw a woman with a baby in her arms when she slept at Binstead ;
and, like myself, she noticed a frilled cap on the woman. The woman whose
ghost we imagine this to be was an Irish woman, and perhaps you have
noticed their love of wide frills in their head-gear."
(3) Mrs. PennlSe revisited Binstead in 1888, and says, "The tree whence
the screams started is cutdown; the room where all saw the ghost is totally
uninhabited ; and Mrs. C. would not let us stay in it, and entreated us to
talk no further on the subject. From the man we got out a little, but sbe
followed us up very closely. He says thatsince the priest blessed the house a
Digitized by Google
1889.] MOTe than a Year after Death. 63
woman baa been. seen (or laid to have been seen, he corrected himself)
round the front entrance, and once at an upper window."
The list of cases cited in this and the previous paper, while
insufficient (as I have already said) to compel conviction, is striking
enough to plead for serious attention to a subject which will never be
properly threshed out unless the interest taken in it assumes a scientific
rather than an emotional form. Considering how long this scattered
belief in the appearances of dead persons has existed, it is really extra-
ordinary that so little trouble should have been taken to determine
whether that belief was well-founded or no. For be it observed that
there has been just as little diligence, just as little acumen, shown
amongst the scoffers as amongst the credulous. It is often said that
"ghost-stories break down on examination"; but what really happens
is, not that the inquirer detects fraud or mistake in the story, but that
the story is both presented and criticised in a vague and careless way,
is sifted by nobody, and sinks or swims as a mere matter of luck. Mr.
Gurney was in the habit of collecting specimens of cases sent to
ourselves which broke down on his inquiry. These contain some
curious specimens of human error; and we hope some time to offer
some of them to the public. But hardly any hints of value, it was
found, could be drawn from previous destructive criticisms, which
are generally of the most superficial kind. In fact, so far as any
exact investigation goes, the present subject is almost absolutely
new,. and the group of cases now presented--of whose evidential
imperfections I am thoroughly aware-must be taken as a 'I1itukmiatio
prima, or mere first handful from an ungarnered field.
Something will have been done, I hope, to encourage the quest for
further evidence if I am thought to have suggested a parallel between
the now known modes of action of the embodied mind and the possible
modes of action of the disembodied mind, which may at least enable us
to see something logically probab~e,-rather than somethinggrotesquely
meaningless,-in the reported behaviour of the ordinary apparition.
Most assuredly, if these supernormal phenomena are to be explained at
all, they must be explained by finding some laws which govern at once
these post-mortem manifestations and the manifestations of spirits still .
in the flesh. Two such laws I believe to exist. In the first place, I
believe that telepathy-the transference of thought through other than
sensory channels-exists both as between embodied spirits and as
between embodied and disembodied spirits. I hold that there is a
continuous series of manifestations of such power, beginning with
thought-transference experiments and hypnotism at a distance, pro-
ceeding through experimental apparitions and apparitions coincident
with crisis or death, and ending with apparitions after death i-the
Digitized by Google
64 On Recognised Apparitiom occwrring [July 8,
results, in my view, of the continued exercise of the same energy by
the spirits of the departed.
And in the second place I regard it as analogically probable
that the thesis of multiplex personality,-namely, that no known
current of man's consciousness exhausts his whole consciousness,
and no known self-manifestation expresses man's whole potential
being,-may hold good both for embodied and for disembodied
men. And consequently I believe that the self-manifestations of the
departed,-being communications between states of being almost
impassably disunited, -must needs form an extreme type of those
fugitive and unstable communications between widely different strata
of personality of which living minds offer us examples; and that
" ghosts" must therefore as a rule represent-not conscious or central
currents of intelligence-but mere automatic projections from con-
sciousnesses which have their centres elsewhere.
&. 'll"On-Ol, ~ po. ,." luT( lea~ £1" 'Alano Mp.oluw
tvx~ leal fia6l}.0", arap <ppl"ffI olJle 1,,1 'll"o.}''II"Q/I.
I believe that the simple, primitive cry of Achilles is the direct
expression of the actual observation of mankind. " There is some soul
and wraith e'-en in Hades," as Mr. Leaf translates, "but there is no
heart in them "; or, in modern phraseology, "Influences and images
generated by the dead persist amongst us, but have no true initiative
nor objective reality."
Thus much, I believe, careful observation will teach us moderns also.
What further deduction we may draw is a matter for philosophy rather
than for science. In Homer's view the dead men themselve8-in the only
personality worth possessing-were lying, a prey to dogs and to every
bird, on the plain of Troy. Plotinus, on the other hand, could not
believe that the automatic self-glorifications, the fading recollections of
" Hades' house," could represent the true personality of the ascending
soul. "The shade of H~rakIes," he said, "might boast thus to shades;
but the true H~rakles for all this cares nought; being transported into
a more sacred place, and strenuously engaging, even above his strength,
in those contests in which the wise wish to engage."
It must be enough thus to indicate that the view here taken of the
inadequacy of apparitions as a true means of communication between
the dead and the living does by no means negative any belief which we
may hold on other grounds as to the life and love of the departed.
The present need is not of speculation, but of evidence ;-of a real
direction of competent intelligence towards the collection and criticism
of a far larger mass of well-attested narratives than the efforts of a few
men during a few years have succeeded in getting together. It may
indeed be that such recorda may prove explicable--I can scarcely say
Digitized by Goo~
1889.] M01'6 t/wm, a Year after Death. 65
by known laws-but by laws whose discovery will only slightly further
extend our experimental psychology in some of the dinlctions in which
it is now rapidly adva.ncing. Or it may be that these long despised,
long neglected narratives will prove the smooth stones from the brook,
and find a vulnerable point in that Goliath of our inscrutable Destiny,
against whom so many prouder weapons have been levelled in vain.
r
Digitized by Google
66 Fwrther Experirnents in Hypnotic
IV.
FURTHER EXPERIMENTS IN HYPNOTIC LUCIDITY OR
CLAIRVOYANCE.l
By PROFESSOR CHARLES RICHBT.
[This translation has been revised by the Author.]
PART I.
Since the conclusion of the experiments recounted in Part XII. of
the Proceeding. of the Society for Psychical Research (pp. 18-168)-
that is to say, since the month of March, 1888,-1 have had the oppor-
tunity of making some further experiments with Leonie B., the same
person mentioned in Chapter III., p. 31, of my former paper. These
new experiments are, in my view, more decisive than any of those
which I have detailed in the above-mentioned memoir.
In fact, as I had there remarked, the earlier experiments were
gravely compromised by the most important and incontestable fact that
when playing-cards were used there was no lucidity. "Here," I said in
conclusion, "we have a fact absolutely negative, which must inevitably
cast some doubt on the experiments in the reproduction of diagrams."
(p. 149.)
When the subject is called upon to divine a drawing, a name, a
malady, an incident of some kind, the probability of a right or
approximately right answer is hard to calculate. To take an example:
What is the probability that, given a drawing such as Figure 66, p. 99,
110 reproduction as accurate as Figure 66 bis will be obtained by
chance alone 1 The calculation is an impossible one. One can only
say that the chance of such reproduction is not very small.
On the other hand, when a playing-card is used, the probability is
a known, a measurable quantity; as measurable as any fact in- science.
If I put the queen of hearts, without knowing myself what card it
is, in an envelope, and am told that the queen of diamonds is in the
envelope, I can calculate all the probabilities involved j the chance
that a queen will be chosen h\), that a red queen will be chosen (1\)'
the chance that the card chosen will not be the queen of hearts (H),
that it will not be a. heart at a.ll (I). &c., &0. All this is a matter of
simple and exact computation.
I am well aware that objections are taken to this method. Persons
1 Profe8llOr Riohet uses the word lucidiU.
Digitized by Google
Lucidity or Olairvoyance. 67
unfamiliar with the doctrine of chances, or with its application to these
problems, maintain that these figures prove nothing, and that a lucky
run will explain all. This argument-which I am surprised to note
in the German magazine Sphinxl-is far from sound. For if by
experiment one obtains a result antecedently very improbable, it is
assuredly permissible to conclude that something besides chance has
been at work. Otherwise one would never come to any conclusion at
all. The doctrine of chances, in fact, is at the bottom of all
scientific argument, in chemistry, physics, physiology alike, although
masked in these cases by the predominant importance of the special
conditions of each experiment.
A chemist seeking to determine the atomic weight of potassium,
and obtaining the number 39 in two successive experiments, will not
set the result aside as due to chance. He will try once more with
increased exactness, and if he again obtains 39 he will accept the
result. He will not attribute the coincidence of the three numbers to
"a lucky run."
If, then, I obtain a series ·of concordant results whose antecedent
probability, on the ground of chance alone, is of one to a thousand
millions, I shall maintain that chance does not explain this; but that
either lucidity veritably exists, or there is some defect in the method
of experimentation.
And this may be advanced with the more confidence, inasmuch as
the alternative between lucidity and non-lucidity is in these experi-
ments a perfectly distinct one. Up till now-if you will-lucidity had
never been clearly proved either by myself or by anyone else. The
experiment was still to be made; and either the affirmative or the
negative view could still be maintained. If, then, my new experiment
is indisputably cogent in one or the other direction, it must be regarded
as deciding the question.
Well, in the series of experiments which I shall now recount,
lucidity has shown itself in the clearest manner; and, so far as the
possibilit.y of chance is concerned, there is left no room for doubt.
The subject on whom these experiments were made was Leonie
B., well-known in connection with the celebrated experiments of
M. Gibert and M. Pierre Janet.2 I need not, therefore, insist on
the special characteristics which her hypnotic trance presents.
These experiments have been, for my part, of a very laborious
1 Die aogennanten Spiritistilchen Ve7"Iue/z.e del Pro/uwr. CJh.a,rZU Rich.et, von L.
Kuhlenbeck, Sph.in:x; September, 1888, p. 111. I may remark that the author does
not seem to have taken the trouble to read in the original the work which he
criticises.
2 See Phanta.l'tlu o/the Living, Vol. II., p. 619 ae", and Bulletm. de la SocitU de
P~ie Ph,lI'iclogiqru, 1881, pauim.
F2
Digitized by Goo~
68 Further Expe1'iments in Hypnotic
character. She spent two months and a-half in my house (June 29th--
September 11th, 1888). As I could keep her entranced for a long time
without injury to her-generally during the night-I have repeatedly
sat by her side from 8 p.m. till 6 a.m. For it was not in the earliest
moments of her trance that she could tell the cards under the envelope,
but after long and apparently very laborious endeavour.
The manner in which she arrived at this result was very curious-
possibly very instructive, if any real clue to the process can be found.
She held the envelope between her hands, and then drew on a sheet of
paper a cluh, a heart, a diamond, 1\ spade; and she repeated these
drawings over and over again, saying, " It is red, black, club, heart,"
&c., but not making up her mind to a definite choice till after a long
period of uncertainty. This period of guessing was still longer when the
exact number of pips on the card was to be told. In that case she
counted on her fingers, repeating the process again and again
ad nauseam.
My patience was thus pretty severely tried. To wait three, four,
or five hours at dead of night till a card is named, one needs a
considerable share of perseverance. Had it been my intention-which
Heaven forbid I-to submit these experiments to some academic
commission, I should not have ventured to ask of anybody whatever to
endure seanc68 like these, often, alas! completely without success. To
endure such seanc68, one must be directly interested in the experiment.
An onlooker would have lost patience before attaining the smallest
result.
Moreover, during all this time she never ceased talking of other
things-a.sking me all kinds of questions, describing the episodes of
her past life, expressing a kind of childish affection for m&-full
of gaiety and mockery, and rapidly catching the ridiculous side of
everyone whom she had come a.cross,-talking, in short, of everything
except the card which she was trying to tell. "She was waiting for it
to come," she said, aud suddenly, in the midst of our conversation, she
would stop and name a card-then begin again two or three times to
talk; and it was only at the end of all this that she settled definitely
what card she would name.
It is clear, I think, that had I known the card I should have ended
by indicating it to her in spite of myself. From weariness or inad-
vertence, I should have given some sign which would have betrayed my
thought. I believe, indeed, that in a sitting of five bours I could
myself manage to discover any card known to the experimenter, merely
by aid of the hints which his exhaustion might allow to escape him in
the course of so tedious a trial. But, as the case actually stood, I could
reveal nothing to Leonie, for I was myself absolutely ignorant as to
what the card in the envelope might be.
Digitized by Goo~
Lucidity 0'1' Olairvoya'nC6. 69
4s in my previous experiments, the card was taken by me (at
random and unseen) from a mixture of 10 packs of 52 cards each; the
Dumber of packs thus admitting of the recurrence of the same card
several times running. .The cards which had once been used were not
employed a second time. I placed the card in an opaque envelope, which
I closed myself completely and gave to Leonie. When she had decided
on the card, I took back the envelope; I satisfied myself that it was
intact, and I opened it, and took the card out. Sometimes Leonie
opened the envelope herself; but I had always first satisfied myself
of the absolute integrity of the envelope-a condition without which,
as I assured her, the experiment could not count.
These envelopes, called opaque8 in trade, were in fact not absolutely
opaque. They were sufficiently so, however, entirely to prevent the
colour of pips from being discerned by t'l'ammiUecllight, whatever
the source of illumination. I succeeded, with great difficulty, and
after efforts which lasted some minutes,· by placing the card in
full sunshine or in the light of a powerful lamp, in seeing the
pips and colour of the card by reflected light. But Uonie never
acted in this way. She made no effort to look at the card, but
contented herself with feeling it between her fingers, and crumpling
the envelope in her ha:nd, scribbling, meantime, upon the envelope itself
her interminable scrawls, representing club, spade, heart, and diamond.
She remained, moreover, almost constantly in a dim light, at some
distance from my armchair, and never tried to hold the card in the
light of the lamp.
Furthermore, in order to preclude all possibility of ordinary, even
hypermsthetic sight, from the experiments of July 22nd onwards, I
placed the card and envelope in a second opaque envelope, so that the
two superimposed opacities rendered the card absolutely invisible to
the sight of normal people. It will be seen that this precaution in no
way modified the success of the experiment.1
1 I made several experiments on diagrtJ"" with Uouie. Some of these succeeded
better than any of thOlle which I recounted in my last memoir, but I do not mention
them here, for I wish to confine myself to matter of absolute proof. and I do not think
that experiments with diagrams have the same demonstrative force as experiments
with cards, where the chances are exactly known. I will mention one observation
alone; a remarkable instance either of thought-transference, or, as I am strongly in·
clined to suppose, of lucidity.
On Monday, July 2nd, after having passed all the day in my laboratory, I
hypnotised Uonie at 8 p.m., and while she tried to make out a diagram concealed in
an envelope I said to her quite suddenly: "What has happened to M. Langlois!"
L!onie knows M. Langlois from having seen him twoor three times some time ago in
my physiological laboratory, where he acts as my assistant. " He has burnt himself,"
Leonie replied. " Good," I said, "and where has he burnt himself! .. .. On the left
hand. It is not fire: it is- I don't know its name. Why does he not take care
when he pours it out! II "Of what colour," I asked, "is the stull which he pours
Digitized by Google
70 Fwrther Experiments in Hypnotic
RecO'I'd of the Experiments.-This record of experiments consists
entirely of a conspectus of the cards as guessed by Leonie. To this I
sUbjoin a conspectus of the results actually given by chance alone in
an identical series of drawings. The table explains itself. I have, of
course, neglected the guesses made by Leonie in the course of her
groping sea.rch, and have counted the final guess alone.
FIRST SBRIBS.
Oard it~ an Opaque Enwlope.
H stands for heart&, D for diamonds, &0. ; K for Jri..nIr, &0. F means figure or court·
card, when the special court-card 18 not stated.
'at Card Card Card
Date. in gueaaed drawn at Remarks.
~~ Envelope. by hazard.
Llionie.
1 July 15 40H H 9H
2
"
lOR D 3H
3 July 16 10H KH 2D
4 .. QH H 10
5
"
88 8 28
6 .. 2D 0 7H
7 July 18 KnC 0 QH
8
"
90 0 6H
9
"
5H 0 30 8he had guessed hearts all the
time, but said club at the last
moment.
]0 .. KnD FD 5H
11
"
8H H 9H
12 July 19 10 8 68 Here again she guessed clubs till
the last.
13
"
50 0 40D
14 II 30 D Q8
16 .. KD KD 8D
16
"
3D D 6H
17 II 100 8 18
18
"
68 H 100
out! .. .. It is not red, it is brown; he has hurt hiID88lf very much-the akin puffed
up directly." •
Now, this description is admirably exact. At 4 p.m. that day M. Langlois had
wished to pour aome bromine into a bottle. He had done this clumsily, I!O that some
of the bromine flowed on to his left hand, which held the funnel, and at once burnt
him severely. Although he at once put his hand in water, wherever the bromine had
touched it a blister was formed in a few seconds-a blister which one could not better
describe than by saying, .. the skin puffed up." I need not say that Leonie had not
left my houae, nor seen anyone from my laboratory. Of this I am ahlolutely certain,
and I am certain that I had not mentioned the incidentof the burn to anybody. More·
over, this was the first time for nearly a year that M. Langlois had handled bromine,
and when Leonie saw him six months before at the laboratory he WIlo8 engaged in
experiments of quite another kind. Of course, I give here all the words I used, and
only the words I used, when I interrogated Leonie.
Decisive though this observation WIlo8, I should find it very hard to estimate the
probability of a correct guess. I think the incident a very important one; but I
prefer the caaeB now to be detailed, where the probability is exactly measurable.
Digitized by Google
Lucidity or Olainfoya,'Me.
~a Card Card Card
Date. in guessed drawn at Remarks.
~~ Envelope. ~e. hazard.
19 July 19 KD C 4H I opened envelo~ and looked at
card unseen '1 her; asked
what it was. "It is not a
club," she &llIIwered, "it is
20 .3B 10H
the queen of diamonds."
"
S
21 Julr 20 70 C 28
22
"
K8 C 78 Said spadea till the last.
23
"
10H C 5D
24
"
10 10 KO
25
"
9D 0 50 Said diamonds till the last.
26 " '
Q8 F8 Q8
27
"
40 0 10H ' 0
28 July 21 K8 H 1H
29
"
58 B 8D There were byacciden.t twocarda
in the envelope, of which one
0 ' . -- - ". P.-.··- ---..- waa5S• 0 ' . 0 _ o 0 -
30
"
8D H 80
31
"
lOR H Q8
32
"
70 H 5H ' .
33
"
20 H 2H .. _.- ...
34
"
AD 8 KO
35
"
,IH IH 6C
36
"
4B 0 3D
37 .. ~~
3H D QD
38
..
QO H 3H
"
39 July 22 KnC Kn8 QH Experiments of July 22 made in
presence of M. R. Alexandre.
40
"
7H H 88
41
"
KO KO 10
42
"
ID ID 9H
43
"
9H 0 38 Said hearts till the laiL
44
" J/1 !~
2D
45
"
Q8
BBCOND BERIBS OJ' Exl'ElLUUNTS.
~a Card Card Card
Date. in gueaed drawD at Remarks.
~~ Envelope. L!~e. hazard.
46 July 22 9B D 30
47
"
QD QD 3D
48 July 23 KnB H 98 Violent storm, which made he
very ill.
9 July 24 98 8 KO Experiments of July 24 made .
presence of M. P. Langlois.
r
4
Digitized by Google
72 Further Experiments in Hypnotic
'St Oard Oard Oard
Date. in gueeaed drawn at Remarks.
~~ Envelope. by
hazard.
LOOD.e.
50 July 24 10 10 5H
51
"
7D D 9H
52
"
Q8 D K8
53
"
68 D KnH
54
"
28 D 58
55
"
QH QD 18
56
"
10H 10H 10D
57 July 25 KO KO KnD Experiments of July 25 in pre-
sence of M. E. Guiard. In
Experiment 57 M. Guiard had
seen the card before he placed
it in the envelope.
58
"
108 D 100
59
"
6H D 4H
60
"
9D 9D 7D
61 July 26 QD 0 KnO
TmRD 8EB.IE8 OF EXPElWlBNTS.
Oo.rd. toith. Two Ent1elopu and a p,.uh, Pack.1
-at Oard Card Oard
Date. in gueeaed drawn at Remarks.
• >C
r.!Y.
~1"'1 Envelope. rue.
hazard.
62 July 26 48 8 78
63
"
KnH H 98
64 July 30 QD B KnD Experiments made in the pre-
sence of Dr. J. H~ricourt.
65
"
QH H 40
66
"
80 0 KnD 8he counted 10, and said, "It is
whiter than a 10."
67 Aug. 2 48 H 18
68
"
K8 B 9H
DISCUSSION AND CALCULATION BASED ON THESB EXPBRIJIBNTS.
In undertaking the discussion of these 68 experiments we at once
perceive that we must divide them into two parts. In the first place,
we have one set in which the card was told completely, pips, suit, and
colour, and another set in which only the suit was told. But let us
begin by examining the whole group of the experiments; we shall
then see what are the lines of division which we must draw between
them.
In these 68 experiments the antecedently probable number of
cards told completely right will be either one or two; the probable
t I wished to try the same experiment with a completely new pack.
Digitized by Goo~
Lt£Cidity (Yf' Clairvoyance. 73
number of suits rightly named will be 17, and the probable number of
colours rightly Damed 34.
We may compare these numbers with the cards actually drawn at
hazard, and then with the cards guessed by LOOnie.
A.-Cardll etl.tirely right.
Antecedent probability
By actual chance-drawing ...
Guessed by LOOnie ...
B.-Cardll with 81'" right.
Antecedent probability
By actual chance-drawing .•.
Guessed by LOOnie ...
C.-Carda with colour right.
1 or 2
1
...12
... 17
...19
...36
Antecedent probability ... 34
By actual chance-drawing ... ... 38
Guessed by LOOnie ... ... 45
It will be seen that under each of these three categories there was
a notable excess of actual successes over the antecedent probabilities,
and that this excess was more marked in proportion as the antecedent
probability was smaller. The result of actual chance-drawing will be
seen to have corresponded pretty closely to the theoretic probabilities.
If we consider the numbers day by day we shall soo that almost
every day there was a marked excess of successes. Let us take the
indication of IlUUa alone.
Number Suits Suits Suits likely
Day. Date. of guessed drawn to be drawn
Drawings. right. right. ril!~t bytheory
of ch8.nces.
-
1 July 15 2 1 2 0'5
2 " 16 4 3 1 1
3
"
18 5 4 1 1'25
" .. 19 9 4 1 2'25
6
"
20 7 4 3 1'75
6
"
21 11 3 0 2'75
7
"
22 9 6 4 2'25
8
"
23 1 0 1 0'25
9
"
24 8 4 2 2
10
"
25 4 2 2 1
11
"
28 3 2 1 0'75
12
"
30 3 2 2 0'75
13 Aug. 2 2 1 1 0'50
Among these 13 days of experimentation we find once only an excess
of the theoretical number over the cards guessed by Leonie. And on
that day only one card was tried, Leonie being extremely ill. The
actual chance-drawing twice shows an excess over Leonie's successes, is
twice equal, and on the other nine days is inferior.
Digitized by Goo~
Further Ergpe'l"innents in Hypnotic
It will be seen also that (1) the interposition of a. second envelope,
and (2) the employment of a new pack of cards did not apparently
modify Leonie's lucidity. In the first series (one envelope) in 45 trials
we find 7 cards told completely right, and 23 with suit right-the
theoretic numbers being 1 and 11. In the second series (two opaque
envelopes) in 16 trials we find 5 cards were told completely right,
and 7 cards with suit right-the theoretic numbers being 0 and 4.
In the third series (fresh pack of cards and two opaque envelopes)
in seven trials we find 5 cards with sui\; ~ld rightly-the theoretic
number being 2.
By a rough calculation, the probability that in 68 trials there
will be 36 8Uccesses at least in guessing the suit is found to be less
than too;:..,.
Returning to what has been already said, we see a.t once that these
trials must be divided into two groups. In the first group come the
trials where the card guessed was completely described (pips, suit, and
cOlour); in the second group come the cases where the /lUit alone was
guessed.
It is remarkable in how large a proportion of those cases in which
Leonie described the guessed card completely, the description was
completely right.
The following is a list of the cases where the guessed card was
completely, or nearly completely described :-
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
True Card.
10 H
KnD
KD
10
QS
IH
KnH
KC
2D
4D
KH
QD
lC
QH
10 H
KC
9D
Card Deecribed.
KH.
FD
KD
10
FS
IH
KnS
KO
2D
4D
KH
QD
10
QD
lOB
KC
9D
Thus in 68 trials Leonie only 17 times offereda full description, and
of these descriptions there were two where the description was
incomplete-" court-ca.rd in diamonds" for knave of diamonds, and
" court-card in spades" for queen of spades-an incompleteness which
assuredly ought not to count as an error. But let us set aside these
Digitized by Google
Lucidity fYI' Clairvoya'nC6. 75
two incomplete descriptions, and consider only the 15 complete ones.
We find that in 15 cards completely described there were three errors.
And these errors were only partial ; king of hearts for 10 of hearts;
knave of spa.des for knave of hearts; queen of diamonds for queen of
hearts.
Now the antecedent probability of a completely correct description
is -h ; and if we calculate the probability of correctly describing 12
cards out of 15 we arrive at a fraction so small as to leave us a moral
certitude that chance alone cannot have brought about such a result.
This probability is approximately 1 in 1,000,000,000,000,000,000.
It seems to me, then, to be needless to insist further that chance is
not here the agent. It is not chance, it is something else; what else
we must presently try to determine.
But first let us see what is to be made of the other experiments if
we eliminate these 17 trials. Fifty-one trials remain, in which Leonie
told the suit right 21 times; whereas the probable number was 13.
The chance of telling the suit right 21 times in 51 trials is small; but
yet far greater than the chances with which we have just been dealing.
This result alone would not suffice to establish Leonie's lucidity. It
proves, however, that even when the best experiments are omitted, she
still replied with more accuracy than chance-drawings actually gave,
or theoretically should give.
But there is a wide difference between these 51 trials where the
complete description of the card was not given, and the 17 trials where
it tDt.W given. Taking the wit alone (chance of rightness 1) we find,
in the first group of 51,21 successes; in the second group of 17, 15
successes. The chance of 15 successesin17 trials is roughly 1in10,000,000.
I shall not dwell further on the hypothesis of chance, which seems to
me absurd. It is not chance which can give the right card 12 times
in 15,1
Since, then, the hypothesis of chance must be rejected, we need to
scrutinise the conditions of the experiments. In the first place it is
plain that thought-transference (wggution mentale) cannot be
invoked as an explanation. Only in two cases (Experiments 57 and 19)
was such transference possible. In Experiment 57 my friend M. E.
Guiard had looked at the card before he placed it in the envelope. He
abstained from giving any indication, and contented himself with
answering, .. Right!" when Leonie said, "It is the king of clubs."
In Experiment 19, after Leonie had said erroneously, "It is a
club," I looked at the card and saw that it was a king of diamonds.
I am absolutely certain that she could not see the card while I looked
1 See p. 151 in Proceeding, XII. In the 433 trials recounted in my previous
paper there were only six carda fully deacribed.
Digitized by Google
76 Fwrthe,' Experiments in Hypnotw
at it. She then said, "It is the queen of diamonds," without any
indication on my part further than by telling her that it was not a
club. (This experiment has, of course, been counted as a failure.)
The examination of the cards of which a full description was given,
shows an interesting peculiarity. They were mainly court-cards and
aces. Among the 17 fully-described cards, while the proportion given
by chance would have been 5 or 6 court-cards and aces, there were in
fact 13. She seems then to see court-cards better than cards with pips.
We come now to the delicate and difficult question: W8I her
success due to some defect in the experimentation'
My mode of procedure was as follows: From the midst of 10 packs
of 52 cards each, 1 drew at hazard a card which 1 placed in an opaque
envelope. I did this in low light at one end of my library, which is
nearly five metres in length, Leonie sitting at the opposite end, with
her back turned to me. Moreover, I drew the card very rapidly, so
that in order to see it it would have been necessary (1) to lie on the
floor in front.of me; (2) to bring the lamp and set it on the floor. It
is then absolutely (I say ohlolutely) impossible that the card could have
been seen at the moment when I put it in the envelope. The envelope
was gummed, and 1 closed it at once. Certainly, during an experiment
which sometimes lasted two or three hours, I occasionally took my eyes
off the subject for some instants; but it is impossible to open a gummed
envelope in a few instants-water and minute care are needed-
without leaving some trace. At the moment when I was about to
opeu the envelope I rigorously observed that it was the same
envelope, that it had no tear in it, and that the fastening was
absolutely intact. Consequently the envelope had not been
opened, and it was the same envelope. The name of the card
indicated by Leonie was written by her in full, or written by me,
before the envelope was opened; and, moreover, I kept an exac1i-a
religiously exact-account of all the experiments made; so that the
15 experiments, with 12 successes, must be regarded as the exact
number. No conscious or unconscious, mental or non-mental sugges-
tion could be made by me, since I was totally ignorant of the card
placed in the envelope.
At the moment when the envelope was opened my eyes did not
quit the card which Leonie drew from the envelope till the moment
when I had recognised what it was. Often I withdrew the card myself,
in which case no trickery was possible. Unfortunately, in some cases,
which I have very wrongly omitted to note, Leonie, as I have said,
withdrew the card herself. I followed it with my eyes carefully when
she did not show it to me immediately, and I am sure that it was in
fact the card withdrawn from the envelope which she showed me. Still,
this is a small flaw in my method, necessitating, to my great regret, a
Digitized by Google
Lucidity or Olairvoya'nC6. '17
certain reserve in my expressions of absolute certitude. The reader,
doubtless, will consider my scruples as exaggerated; for it is absurd to
assume in Leonie a manual skill greater than that of the most accom-
plished conjurer. To make the card in the envelope disappear, and to
replace it by another at 25 centimetres from me,-that is all but
impossible; and if I give expression to this objection it is not that I
suppose that Leonie could have tricked me in these experiments, but
because I desire to suggest against myself all the objections which can
possibly be made. This objection, then, seems to me to have little force,
for the following reasons :-
1. Because the good faith of Leonie was almoBe a.1UJayB complete.
(On this point a special discussion will be needed.)
2. Because in many oases-half at least of the cases-it would have
been absolutely impossible for her to use any trickery.
3. Because it would be necessary to credit her with an incredible
skill in prestidigitation, of which she certainly is quite devoid. She
barely knows the names of the cards.
We come, then, to the question of Leonie's good faith. I need not
say that I am not speaking of simulation of the hypnotic trance. This
she does not and cannot simul"te. But there is in her a double
existence. She is Leonie when she is awake, and Leontine when she
is entranced. Leonie and Leontine are two quite distinct personages ;
and assuredly Leontine does not simulate the trance; her entranced
state is as real as Leonie's waking state.
But this Leontine has a very active and definite character of her
own. She has tastes, affections, memories, which have created for her
a real personality. It would then be quite possible that there should
be, not indeed simulation of the trance, but trickery in the trance,
which is a very different thing. The question is : Is Leontine capable
of deceiving me ~
To my great regret she ia so capable. I am obliged to state that I
have once caught her actually cheating me; 1 and this, in fact, is the
1 The wayin which LOOntine oheated. during one of thOll8 states ofunoonsciousn888
of whioh I spoke above, was this: I had drawn a card and marked it, without seeing it,
and taken it into the next room. Then I told her to try to gIl888 it. She said 10of spades.
Now the card that I had taken into the next room was really a king of hearts, which
I found the next day with the mark that I had made on it. That is what Leonie's
trickery consists in. I say nothingabout the cards enclosed in an envelope, which are
left with her 10 that sbe may gIl888 them in the OOurBe of the day or night, for, in this
cue, there is no doubt that, in an unconscious interval, ahe opens the envelope to look
at the card and then puts it back at once very carefully into the envelope. The
perllOllality which carries on all th888 operationB does 10 without either Leonie or
LOOntine knowing anything about it, and Leonie, in the utmost good faith, thinks
that she has made a rigbt gIl888 about the card which she claims never to have seen.
I therefore conaider &8 reliable experiments only thOll8 in which I have been able to
watoh Uonie all the time.
Digitized by Google
78 Further Experiments in Hyprwtic
reason which prevents rue from citing a series of experiments made
later, from August 2nd to September 10th, and intended to exclude the
hypothesis of hyperresthesia of touch or sight -for in these experiments
trickery was possible, while it was not possible ill the earlier ones. But
a fraud of Leontine's is not the same thing as a fraud of an ordinary
person, on account of the complexity of Madame B.'s constitution.
We have, as already said, Leonie, the waking personage, Leontine, the
entranced personage, and moreover Leonore, a different personage,
whose somnambulism is extremely profound, a.nd on whom M. Perrier,
and afterwa.rds M. Janet, have made some instructive experiments.
Besides these three different personalities, characterised by memories
special to each, there are others also-Leonora, let us say, for
instance-corresponding to Madame B.'s condition of spontaneous
somnambulism during normal sleep,l and perhaps other states of
consciousness, of which we have no knowledge.
Thus Leontine sometimes performs actions of which she retains no
recollection. She writes whole phrases without knowing that she
has written them. M. Pierre Janet has taught her to do this;
so that I should be tempted to believe that if there has been fraud on
Leontine's part, that fraud has been unconscious. This distinction is
important from a moral point of view; but from our present experi-
mental standpoint it ought to inspire us with a great distrust, a
marked prudence in our conclusions. I only insist, therefore, on the
15 experiments above given, because I am certain that no conjurer,
however accomplished, could have told me the 12 cards which Leonie
did actually tell me.
PART II.
The experiments described above were made ill June and July,
1888. They did not completely satisfy either my friends or me; in
fact, though they are conclusive aga.inst the hypothesis of chance, they
do not show in an absolutely irrefutable manner that there is not some
sort of extraordinary visual (retinal) acuity, and, moreover, they leave
a not altogether negligible place for the hypothesis of trickery.
It was necessary therefore to try to meet this two-fold objection,
and, on this account, I tried two new series of experiments with
Leonie. .
The defective points in the former experiments are :-
(a) Leontine may change the envelope that I give her containing
the card to be guessed, and, having with her an envelope containing a
similar card, may present it to me as if it were the envelope that I
had given her.
1 Ordinary nomenclature is quite inadequate to represent these different phaaea.
Lucidity 0'1' Clairvoyance. 79
(6) Leontine may open the envelope that I give her, take the
card out, look at it, shut up the envelope again and pretend to have
guessed it.
(c) Leontine may hide a. card in her hand, and, when she openll
the envelope herself, ma.y give it to me as the one gue886d.
I ha.ve already expla.ined that these three objections are not, in my
opinion, valid, for
(1) I hardly took my eyes off L. from the moment when I gave
her the envelope, and there was never any suspicious gesture, 1108 if
she were attempting to unfllo8ten the two superposed envelopes. One
knows how difficult it is to unfllo8ten a gummed envelope.
(2) The envelope that I gave her WIlo8 almost (but not quite)
always marked, so that the substitution of another for it was im-
possible.
(3) From the moment when L. opened the envelope, I absolutely
never took my eyes off the card that she took out of it, and, in some
cases, I opened the envelope myself.
But although these objections do not seem to me to have much
force, the fact of their being raised demands for them a complete
refutation. I therefore took the following precautions :-
(1) The selected card was marked, and I kept in my pocket the
ten packs of cards from which I had taken it.
(2) The envelope in which the card was put was sealed with
sealing·wax and had a special mark.
(3) I opened the envelope myself, and, when once Leonie had
designated the card, she touched neither it nor the envelope.
These precautions are such that no conjurer could find satisfactory
objections to them.
I uiade two series of experiments with Leonie; the first in Mr.
Myers' house at Cambridge from Thursday, January 31st, to February
15th, 1889. This series failed completely, which seems to happen when
the series of experiments is not sufficiently prolonged. Thus, for the
cards of the first part-the first experiment was on July 10th. But I
had hypnotised Leonie at intervals since May 20th, that is, for a month
and a half.
The last I16ries of experiments was carried out at my house in Paris,
from July 12th to August 26th, under the conditions described above,
the only difference being that, having no more" opaque" envelopes, I
used some which are not opaque to transmitted light and the card in
the envelope was then enclosed in a second envelope, 80 that each card
was in a double envelope. Of course I satisfied myself that the card
thus enclosed was absolutely invisible to our normal eyes.
Digitized by Goo~
80 Further Experiments in Hypnotic
This series of experiments is tabula.ted below, with the same
arrangement as before.
'3-& Card
Oard Oard
Date. in gu~
drawn at Remarks.
~~ Envelope. by hazard.
Leonie
1 July 13 28 H QS
2
"
9H S 2D
3
"
4H D 38 (A.maIl card, thatis, 2, 3, 4 or5.
4 July 14 60 8 9B She wrote O.
5 .. 10D 0 AO 8he wrote D•
6 .. 10D 0 8S
7
"
QD 0 QH 8he wrote O.
8 July 15 KH 0 3H
9
"
100 H QD
10
"
9D 8 3D
11 July 17 80 8 60 She wrote O.
12
"
7D 0 KO
13 July 18 8H 0 2H She wrote H.
14
"
30 H 5H She wrote O.
15
"
58 S QS
16 July 21 20 0 80
17
"
KnH 0 8D
18
"
60 0 AH
)
19 July 22 Kn8 F8 lOB
20
"
2D 8 80
21 July 29 48 S AH She wrote H.
22
"
88 S 20 8he wrote S.
23
"
KD Q8 KnS She said suddenly: "There is a
JUly 30
figure, a queen or a king."
24- AH D 2H She drew ~eraistently an ace on
KnS Kn8
the enve ope and wrote O.
25
"
KnD
26 July 31 AO 4D 10H
'n
"
38 3H 70 She said 8.all the time,and3 of S.
28, Aug. 1 58 28 KnS
29
"
5D D KS She laid: "A.maIl D.
30 Aug. 4 AS 8 5S
31
"
8H 80 2H
From this experiment onwards. the cards were put into a three-fold envelope
32 Aug. 4 40 H 8D
33
"
7D S 10D
34 Aug. 6 2D 5S KnH
35
"
60 0 10D
36 Aug. 10 KS 2H 4H She said: "It isa figure," at the
moment when I was going to
3'1 .. KO FO KnD
open the envelopes.
38
"
4D 0 58
39 Aug. 13 8H 7S 40
40
"
KS S KnD
41
"
8S 0 9S
42 Aug. 15 7H 30 7S
Lucidity or Clairvoyance. SI
From thia experiment onwards, two envelopea were used.
43 Aug. 15 KnO H Kn 0 (A lDlall card.)
44 .. QD FD 7D
45 ., 2H D 4B 8he said H. all the time.
46 Aug. 18 4S 3R 100
47 ,. KnD D KnD
48 .. AD FH 10D She said: "I think it is an ace."
49 .. 70 S AS
From thia experiment onwards, three envelopell were used.
50 Aug. 19 40 8 58
51 .. 5D 2S KnH
52 .. KnH FH K8
53 .. 3S S 9H
54 Aug. 21 48 20 5B
55 .. 8S 3S KO
56 .. 9R 3S 9S
57 .. 6D FD 3D
68 Aug. 25 5D H 30
59 .. 9R 8 KD (" There ill a pointin the middle.")
60 It 5R 5B KnD
61 .. 6B 30 A8
62 Aug. 26 5B 28 9H
63 .. 8S H 80
64 .. 5D B 2H ("A point in the middle.")
ti5 .. Kn8 FO QO
Although if we take the whole of this second series of experi-
ments, the amount of success is not more than we might have
expeeted by chance, there is, I think, nevertheleaa, some evidence point-
ing to lucidity. Leonie only attempted to gue88 anything more than
the suit in 25 cases ; in 9 of those 25 cases she gueBSed that the card
was a court-ca.rd, and in 7 out of the 9 this was true. In 5 of these
cases, moreover, she gueBSed rightly the suit to which the court-card
belonged. Only once, when a court-ca.rd was drawn and she attempted
to guess more than the suit, did she fail to designate it as a court-e&rd.
This certainly looks like some abnormal capacity for discerning court-
carda, especially when we remember that it was mainly in guessing
court-cards and aces that she succeeded in the first series.
CONCLUSION.
As to the conclusions to be drawn from this long series of experi-
menta, there are only four poaaihle hypotheses.
(1) Some defect in the experimentation.
(2) Chance.
(3) Some exceptional acutene88 in retinal vision or in the sense of
touch.
(4) Some capacity of obtaining knowledge, whose modus opera7Kii
is absolutely unknown to us.
G
Digitized by Google
82 Furtlter Experiments in Hypnotic
(1) As far a.s I can see, there WI\S no defect of experimentation in
the second series of trials. I have not the presumption or conceit to
affirm that there wa.s none, but, for my part, I do not see in what point
the experiments can be defective. The card is marked by me and put
into three envelopes sealed with sealing-wax; Leonie attempts to guess
it in my sight. I take it out of the envelope myself, and I only take
account of her final guess.
In the first series the defect in the experiments was very slight,
so slight that I myself consider the experiments to be valid: the
hypothesis that Leonie cheated me a.s often a.s would be required to
account for her success-by substituting a card chosen by her for the
one that I had taken, or another envelope for the envelope that I gave
her-seems to me absurd. Experiment 57, besides, tells against this
greatly strained explanation, and so does the fact that so large a
proportion-13 out of 17-of the cards fully guessed were court-cards
and aces.
We must then &Ccept the experiments of the second series as
irreproachable and those of the first series as almost irreproachable.
(2) Ohance cannot be credited with the designations of the first
series. In fact the probability of guessing 12 out of 15 cards right is
so small that it is absolutely certain that chance could not produce
such a series.
The experiments of the second part are less conclusive, but Leonie's
success in designating court-cards in these experiments appears to me
to afford distinct confirmation of the first series. It would certainly
have been more satisfactory if the second series of experiments had
been a.s successful a.s the first, but nevertheless, I think, we may con-
clude from the two series taken together that neither chance nor
trickery will explain Leonie's success.
(3) We are left, then, to the two other hypotheses of visual or tactile
hyperacuity on the one part, and on the other part of a faculty of
knowledge whose modus agendi is unknown to us.
And first as to tactile hyperesthesia. The pips and the figures are
painted on the cards, and rise in a relief which, though very slight, might
enable a person whose sense of touch was abnormally acute to recog-
nise a card enclosed in an envelope. But I do not regard it as possible
that this could be done through two thicknesses of paper. The sense of
touch which could a.ccomplish this feat would be very unlike the
sense of touch which we actually know.
Is it then to be explained by some specially keen power of retinal
vision 7
That is possible, and I confess that my mind is not quite made up on
-this point. The fact that Leonie discerns court-ca.rds and aces especially
Digitized by Google
Lucidity or Clairvoyance. 83
well would seem to point to retinal vision. But on the other hand,
the addition of a second envelope did not affect the result. Also the
entranced Leontine seems to have her eycs closed. I believe that the
eyelids are only lowered, and that the rays of light, half-intercepted
by the eyelids, do reach the retina, but at any rate she never looks
at anything except with nearly closed eyes, and allowing only a small
my of light to enter beneath her eyelids, and this is by no means a
convenient way to look at things. And further, she does not attempt
to take the cards into the sunlight or lamplight.
Moreover, in judging of this question we must not leave out of
account the numerous instances of lucidity shown by Leonie a.nd other
somnambules, in cases where it cannot be due to retinal vision. (See,
e.g., the example quoted by me on p. 164, Proceeding" Part XII.)
I may add that even if it be retinal vision, a retinal vision so much
more developed than ours would almost amount to a new percepti\"e
faculty.
(4) We have, consequently, to admit the existence of some faculty
entirely unknown to us-lucidity or 8econd-sight-whichever name is
applied to it-which is to be met with quite exceptionally in certain
subjects, and, even with them, quite irregularly and with no possibility
hitherto of determining the conditions of its occurrence.
But the method that I have adopted to prove this important fact is
purely empirical and cannot carry conviction with it. In the
experimental sciences, one thing is necessary, viz., to be able to control
the conditions of the experiment. If a chemist were to find a new
substance and were to declare himself unable to sa.y how he found it
or to produce it again, nobody would listen to him, a.nd that would
perhaps be reasonable. In the same way, I have obtained some
phenomena of lucidity, but I frankly declare myself unable to tell how
I obtained them or why I succeeded sometimes and sometimes failed,
and I cannot undertake to produce them again. This is empiricism,
not science.
I cannot, however, draw from this any discouraging conclusion.
On the contrary, we have here a whole series of absolutely new
phenomena immersed in deep shadow, like every science in its infancy.
The problem then must be attacked resolutely but methodically,
as in experimental sciences. Perhaps after all the so-called occult
sciences are only a chapter in Physical Science-a singularly delicate
Physical Science-and I am firmly convinced that we must have
recourse to Physical Science in attempting some explanation and some
definition of these phenomena, which, to my mind, are certain but
inexplicable.
G2
Digitized by Google
84 Dup~ Per8onality.
v.
DUPLEX PERSONALITY.
AN ESSAY ON THE ANALOGY BETWEEN HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA AND CEBTAIN
EXPERIENCES OP THE NORMAL CONSCIOUSNESS.1
By THOMAS BABKWORTH•
.. A good use of unoommon things is to force us to look more curiously at the
meaning of common things which we overlook habitually."-M.a.uD8LEY.
Seejng that no result ca.n be produced experimentally in an organ-
ism, of which the ca.uses and the constituents are not pre-existent in it,
it would be strange indeed if the remarkable performances of hypnotised
persons had no parallel in the experiences of daily life. For, however
widely the one may differ from the other in the degrees and nlodes of
manifestation, there will be sufficient resemblance in their nature and
operation to enable us to recognise them as symptoms of the same
functions, or effects of the same forces. Naturally, the first class
affords the most attractive subjects for speculation, being more clearly
defined, more salient in feature, and more startling in results; but
granting these points of vantage, and allowing moreover that beyond
their inherent interest they have a relative value in throwing light
upon the constitution of mind in abnormal states, I am inclined to
think that one of their chief points of interest will prove to be the
directing of attention to corresponding normal features, laws, and
operations of mind, which we might otherwise leave unnoticed although
continually in presence of them.
As an instance I may point to those indica.tions of distinct phases
of consciousneSli which have been termed "Duplex" or "Multiplex
Personality." At present it seems to me that" Duplex Persollality"
would be a term wide enough to cover nearly all the phenomena
recorded; but at all events, without these and similar investigations,
the Unity of human consciousness would have remained a dogma
unshaken and almost unchallenged. It is to the manifestation of this
Duplex Personality-called elsewhere, and in relation to other C8oIIeS,
primary and secondary consciousness-that I wish to address myself,
with the object of showing how their comparatively dissevered and
almost opposite action is not only observable in the hypnotic state,
but also in the every-day actions of life, and that it is chiefly owing
1 What is here published is a portion of an e88&Y by Mr. Barkworth, somewhat
enlarged since it was read at a meeting of the Society on January 25th, 1889. It
ought to be stated that the Kditor of the Proreedingl. and not the author of the paper,
is l'8IIponaible for the selection of the portion here published.
Digitized by Google
]}q.p~ Personality. 85
to the very frequency and commonplace nature of the evidence& for
it that they have remained so little recognised, and their import so
unsuspected.
The most prominent and prevailing characteristic of the ordinary
actions of our waking life is that they are performed in obedience to the
will, and as a rule, the will not only suggests the action, but prtlBides
over its fulfilment.
This rule is, however, subject to numerous exceptions to be pre-
sently noticed. The actions of the hypnotic state, on the other hand,
are largely chal"l\Cterised by what may be called automatism; that is to
MY, being started by suggestionl they seem to be carried on without
volition until the effect of the impulse dies out, or until the suggested
action is fully completed, and cannot therefore be any longer continued,
or until the suggestion is changed, or put an end to, by the operator.2
In these cases, however, it is only the execution and not the initiation
of the movements which is automatic, the suggestion for them being
external to the subject's own personality.
Hypnotic subjects are usually so harried with suggestions as to have
little opportunity for showing what they would do if permitted to follow
their own inclinations, and just as any absurdity seems in dreams to be
perfectly natural and commonplace, so in the hypnotic trance the most
bizarre notions can be imposed upon a subject without arousing in him
any sense of incongruity. A man can be made to believe that he
is a hen, and to chuckle and spread his wings over an imaginary brood
of chickens, but neither in this case, nor in the more or less similarly
absurd dreams which are often experienced in natural sleep, does any
sense of improbability, still less of the ludicrous, seem to strike the
sleeper. I except, however, those dreams which the harassed, over-
worked man suffers from when he, in sleep, goes over again the
anxieties and worries of the day's study or business, or rehearses those
of the morrow. In this case his sleep is not sufficiently profound to let
the reasoning powers rest, or in the language of hypnotists, his primary
consciousness is not completely inhibited, consequently his dreams are,
even painfully, rational and coherent, and he commonly remarks on
waking that he feels fatigued rather than refreshed. We have, how-
ever, instances of complete automatism in the case of the sleep-walker
who goes through a variety of complicated actions entirely self-sug-
gested. In the great majority of even these cases, however, the
I The term auggeation is UBed throughout this paper in the technical seI188 familiar
to student. of hypnotism.
I If the limbe (of the hypnotised subject) are disposed 80 as to begin any action
it is carried on by the subject, and in this way he may be made to climb or go on all
fOlll'8, or if a pen or a piece of work be put into his band, he will write or sew•
..4.ntmal Magndilfla, Binet and Fere, p. 181.
Digitized by Google
86 Duplex Personality.
element of liuggestion is not entirely absent, the suggestion being
supplied by the subject's own memory or engrained habits. Thus the
somnambulic dairymaid will tum the chum,the needlewoman will work
away at the unfinished garment, to the completion of which she has
been anxiously looking to provide her weekly rent, and so on. A far
rarer and more interesting case, of which instances are not wanting, is
that of the sleep·walker, whose actions are .aot only not suggested by the
memories of his waking life, but are of such a nature as he could not
perform in his wakingstate, e.g., physically-walking or climbing along
the edges of roofs or narrow parapets where a single false step would
be death;1 mentally-writing poetry, or composing music above the
level of his ordinary powers. In these last-named cases automatism
seems to rise to intuition.
Having thus distinguished between actions mental or physical,
which are (a) voluntary, (b) suggested and automatic, and (c) intuitive
and automatic, we may now Pl'OCeed to inquire how far the two latter
states are exhibited in the ordinary actions of healthy persons in their
waking hours, bearing in mind that in their case the term suggestion
must be restricted to the self-imposed dictates of their own will auto-
matically executed.
(A) On the first of these classes there is no need to dwell. The
mental processes and actions comprised in it cause or constitute the
vast majority of the conscious acts of sane persons. The will not only
determines upon them,but presides over their fulfilment,and they attain
their end by a succession, or a combination of thoughts, or thoughtful
acts, consciously planned, or co-ordinated, to a definite intelligible end.
In reading a book, in writing (not copying) a letter, in conversation,
and in all forms of study wo have examples of this class.
(B) The second class, which includes the bulk of the phenomena
with which it is my present purpose to deal, presents to us voluntary
and automatic consciousness acting in combination, but far more inde-
pendently than is commonly supposed. Just as a suggestion made to a
hypnotic subject by another person is automatically carried out by the
1 .. Dr. Paul Garnier gives an instanee of a patient, a dentist's &88ista.nt, of feeble
bodily and mental health, who frequently fell into a state of BOmna.ntbulism. On one
of these occasions he escaped by a window from a ward of the Hate1 Dieu, in which
he W&8 undergoing treatment, and, though a peculiarly unathletic person, wa.lked
ea.sily and fearlessly along the sloping pa.ra.pet of the f"98de, a feat which a trained
gymna.st could hardly have a.ccomplished. He awoke in the course of this dangerous
performance, and had to be rescued by mea.ns of a la.dder. With the return of con-
sciOUSU888 MUOn a100ke aM he UMff.tood the horror of his position." Somnambulilme
d«ant Ie. TribunetlWl:,Paria,l888, quoted by Dr. Lloyd Tuckey. The italics are mine.
An exactly similar ca.se occurred not long since at one of the large hotels near Curing
Crees. In this ca.se the individual in question had dreamed that the house W&8 on
fire and that he had to escape by the roof. He woke in a meet perilous poeition,
and his cries of terror brought &88ista.nee and rescue.
Digitized by Google
DUlpl,ea, PersO'fUd,ity. 87
former, so, in the case of normal self-suggestion, the will prescribes a
course of action which is then automatically carried out by the voluntary
muscles. The mind having in the meantime become engaged with other
subjects, the limbs nevertheless continue to perform the prescribed
action until the mind, being recalled to the subject, chooses to arrest or
vary it.
1. The simplest cases in illustration of this are those of walking,
eating, or dressing, where the action once voluntarily commenced is
continued to completion, although the mind has in the meanwhile
become wholly engrossed with another subject. The case is shown much
more clearly, however, when the suggestion takes the form of a standing
order engrained by habit. If a good hypnotic subject were ordered
thus: "Every morning at nine o'clock you will leave your house and
walk to- the end of the street where you will catch the bus," he would
do so until the suggestion wore off.
Now, let it be supposed that a man who is usually accustomed to
do this very thing, one morning receives a letter, which absorbs his
attention at the time when he is leaving his house to go in a new and
different direction. If his mind be so engrossed with the letter as to be
withdrawn from considering his destination, and so from imposing a
new suggestion upon his movements, the old suggestion will continue to
operate, and he will from "force of habit," as it is termed, walk to the
end of the street and perhaps even get into the "bus," and proceed some
distance, till his mind, accidentally recalled to the subject, peremptorily
suggests to him to stop the "bus" and retrace his route. This is
called "absence of mind" to which some persons are more subject than
others, just as some persons are better hypnotic subjects than others.
H you have an office or chambers from which you set out to transact
business at another place, afterwards returning to your own office, the
habit ofalways returning there will become a standing suggestion, and
when a day comes that you have three or four places to go to instead
of one, you will find, if your mind is much engrossed with business, that
instead of going the round of these places at once, you persist in
returning to your own quarters between each call, and to your great
vexation have to go back more or less over the same ground, just when
you arrive at your own door. This is a case taken from repeated
experience.
2. The case becomes more interesting when the action is more com-
plicated. It is often found that in reading music at the pianoforte, for
instance-it matters not whether the piece is seen for the first time or
not-the player will frequently allow his mind to wander to other
topics, and become so interested in them as quite to forget what he is
doing, and cease to be conscious of any attention to it. Nevertheless
the suggestion having been originally imposed by the mind to play the
Digitized by Google
88 Duplex Personality.
music, the fingers will continue automatically to do so, and the eyes to
follow the type, while all the time the thoughts and the attention are
far away, and this will continue until something occurs to recall the
mind to the music, such as reaching the end of the piece, or coming to
a passage presenting new difficulties for consideration-such as the
mode of fingering it-when normal and conscious exercise of the
intellect or reasoning power is called for to solve the new question
thus raised. This case is a distinct and marked advance upon the
former one. In that the action was only the simple act of walking
continuously in a given direction, repeating the same movement of the
legs till the goal was reached, while in the case of the pianoforte
player there are the separate movements of ten fingers ooordinated to
one end, not monotonous, but varied in every successive bar, read
and followed from the printed page, yet all done without consciousness
of the ordinary kind, and with no exercise of the will beyond the first
suggestion which started it. With this case may be compared those
planchette experiments related by the late Mr. Gurney (Proceedings
of the Society for Psychical Research, Part XI., No.3) in which certain
suggestions of words to be written, or of calculations, were offered to a
subject during hypnotisation. Being then awakened and made to
read aloud, his band on a planchette, he automatically executed the sug-
gested task, although his mind was wholly given to the book. The
performance of music affords, however, a still more striking illustration
of the relative functions of the primary and the secondary conscious-
ness. In learning a new instrument, the production of each note is for
a long time a separate intellectual act. The choice of the note in
correspondence with the printed sign upon the page, the mode of pro-
ducing it with the lips, or the bow, in combination with the fingers,
are all subjects of distinct thoughts, of which we are definitely aware.
By slow degrees and continued practice the action tends to become
automatic, that is to say the sight of the printed note suggests
instinctively to the lips and the fingers those combined movements which
are necessary to produce it. At length there comes a time when we
pass from the one state to the other, and, when playing a scale, for
instance, we abandon the attempt to think of each note separately,
and simply starting from the top of the scale, and trusting ourselves
to automatic guidance, we arrive at the bottom of it we know not how;
and after further practice are enabled to play the scale with a rapidity
which defies the effort to follow with the mind the separate pro-
duction or fingering of the notes. Not only is the action of the primary
or voluntary consciousness of no use here, but the attempt to exercise it
is a distinct obstacle to success, and we have in this fact one reason why
"nervousness" causes performers to fail or "break down," as it is called.
The anxiety to do well and the fear of failure cause the player, instead
Digitized by Google
Dtuple:e PersO'll4lity. 89
of abandoning bimself to the action of bis automatic faculties, to
obtrude operations of thought and will upon his fingers, and as his
thoughts are not capable of following his fingenl with sufficient
rapidity, there ensues a want of correspondenCle between the two modes
of action, the first not being able to keep pace with the second,
which, as it were, is tripped up. The player is in fact thinking
of one note when he is playing another, although he may not be able
to discern the fact.
A physiological account of this phenomenon is given by Ferrier
(Functions ofthe Brain, pp. 252-3) as follows :-
" We have reason from the facts of comparative physiology to regard the
corpora striats as the centresin which these habitual orautomatic movements
become organised. • Though the consciousneaa of sensory
impreaions must precede any truly volitional act in response thereto, we
find that by education and frequent repetition the action becomes 80 easy as
to follow impression without conscious discrimination or attention, the nexus
between impression and action becoming 80 organically welded in the sensory
and motorcentre. as to assume the character of reflex action below the domain
of consciousness. In this case we may suppose thatimpressions made on the
organs of sense travel up to the optic thalami, and thence pass directly to
the corporastriata instead of takillg the larger or conscious circle through the
sensory and motor centres of the hemispheres. . . • We may express it
thus that in actions requiring conscious discrimination, and voluntary eftort,
thelarger circle of the hemispheres is involved, but that in the actions which
have become habitual and automatic, the larger circle is groatly relieved by
the organic nexus between impression and action which baa been established
in the sensory and motor basal ganglia."
The physiological theory thus stated may suffice to account for the
simpler classes of automatic actions. But even here it is noteworthy
that the distinguished writer from whom I bave quoted, in his
endeavour to show that the reactions in question are " outside the sphere
of psychical activity properly so called," is unable even to state his own
view without resorting to the language of metaphor when he speaks of
the " nexus between impression and action becoming organically welded
in the sensory and motor centres" :-we might safely challenge the
author to show us anatomically the "organic weld" of which he speaks.
We shall, however, presently see that both in hypnotic experiments
and in ordinary states of consciousness there is abundant evidence of
psychical activities, involving the action of the hemispheres and the
higher centres of the brain, which nevertheless are outside the domain
of normal consciousness and volition.
The higher we go in tracing the physical correlative of the mental
process the more difficult it becomes to locate it. While the merely
somatic energies, whether motor or sensory, can be assigned with reason-
able certainty to their respective centres, the higher seats of thought
Digitized by Google
90 Dwplex Per80'f1,(J},ity.
and reason cannot be found at all. The most that Dr. Ferrier feels hin}-
self entitled to say on this point is that" there is nothing inherently
improbable in the view that frontal development in special regions
may be indicative of the power of concentration of thought and intel-
lectual capacity in special directions," although considerable portions of
the frontal lobes may be removed without any obvious impairment of
function. Nor do they respond to electrical stimulation.
At this point I shall venture to change the nomenclature which is
usually employed-and which I have so far myself used-to designate
the two modes of consciousness that I have distinguished, viz., primary
and secondary. These terms appear to me objectionable as implying
either (1) an order of succession in time which is not found in the
facts, or (2) a difference in moral dignity or functional importance
which is at present a mere assumption. The terms" active" and CI pas-
sive " consciousness seem to ~e better adapted to express my own view
of the duality of consciousness, and I propose therefore to adopt them
in future. Under the head of CI active consciousness" I shall include
all those voluntary operations of the mind which normally determine
our actions; while referring to CI passive consciousneBB" all the phe-
nomena of automatism, whether in the normal or hypnotic state, and
the power which, while employed to carry out the suggestions of the
will, either of the individual himself or of another person, is occasion-
ally able to transcend the behests laid upon it with highly interesting
results.
3. We may now advance to higher forms of the exhibition of the
p888ive consciousness. In walking we had an instance of simple auto-
matism; in playing, of combined and complicated automatic action,
but in neither case was the passive consciousness called upon to do any-
thing more than follow Dlechanically a prescribed course of action,
indicated in the first instance by the initial movement of the limbs set
going by the will, and, in the second case, by the notes printed on a
sheet of music. In the case of adding up long columns of addition,
however, we get to something beyond either of these. Here, again, the
action is at first voluntary throughout, and gradually tends to become
automatic. A beginner needs aU his attention, the addition of each
figure as he ascends the column being a problem to be separately con-
sidered; but I have found that by degrees it is possible to cease think-
ing of the figures, and by collstant practice to be able to add with great
rapidity and correctness while the mind is far away and busily engaged
with other subjects. Here there is no longer a merely monotonous
movement to be kept up, nor a printed guide to be followed, but a
succession of independent mental actions which are not foreseen, nor
taken at second-hand from a. printed page, but arise spontaneously and
adapt themselves to any combination of figures.
Digitized by Google
Duplex Per80'1/,ality. 91
The fact that these combinations are not foreseen, and yet are dealt
with as fast as they arise, would at first sight seem to show that the
passive consciousness was capable of originating as well as of executing
psychical actions. Further consideration will, however, disprove thi~
so far as the present case goes. We have here, in fact, the develop-
ment of the operation of standing suggestions. It has become a stand-
ing order of the mind that two and two make four, and that nine and
four make thirteen, and so on; and hence it is no longer necessary for
the mind to re-enact the rule on every separate occasion, but the passive
consciousness automatically obeys it, although the mind is "absent." A
parallel case in hypnotics is thus related by Mr. Gurney (Proceedings,
Part XII., pp. 4 and 5 )
.. A large number of experimenta were made in the working out of SUDl8
by the •secondary intelligence,' the sum being given to the subject while he
was in the hypnotic state, and the 8D8wer being written down by him
automatically with a planchette, while he was in the normal state, and wholly
unaware both of the act of reckoning and of what he was writing. •
He was made to place his right hand on the planchette • hi. attention being
occupied by reading aloud' • • • or some similar device...
The italics are my own.
In these cases and that of unconscious sight reading of music, it
does not seem possible to consider the mental action (which is applied,
for the first time, to a new subject requiring the exercise of much
higher than merely mechanical powers), as being a.ccomplished by the
shorter circuit of which Dr. Ferrier writes. We must therefore con-
clude that automatic processes are occasionally wrought out in the
higher cerebral tracts also. •
A curious case bearing on the same point was mentioned by Mr.
Myers at ono of the meetings of the Society for Psychical Research. A
certain clerk in a French office having been hypnotised was told that
two and two made five. Next day all his work went wrong, and it
was not for some time discovered that he had in every place, when two
and two came together, added them as five. In his case the standing
order of his own intellect to consider two and two a.s four had been
superseded by the new injunction which continued to operate, although
he had no recollection of receiving it.
(C) We now come to the consideration of the third class of mental
and physical actions, those, namely, which I have ventured to d~8Cribe
as not only automatic but intuitive. I mean by this term actions that
appear to involve intuitive mental powers. I am aware, of course,
that the existence of such powers is denied by some metaphysicians,
who attribute the performance of actions which can be acquired neither
by instruction, nor by personal experience, to hereditary instinct, and
the embodied experience of the race. This denial is not surprising,
Digitized by Google
92 Duplea; Personality.
since if we allow the existence of purely intuitive powers, we seem
virtually to assert that effects can exist without a cause. Nevertheless
there remains a class of phenomena which apparently fulfils this very
definition, and although far from asserting that there is no cause for
them, I think it is impossible in our present state of knowledge to
show the cause, and I therefore adopt the word intuitive, provisionally,
to describe them.
I will take as a first, and typical, instance of intuitive thought
and action, the case of musical improvisation. The power of improvis-
ing music so as to employ the full capacity of the instrument, and to do
so with unhesitating fluency and without any conscious effort of the
mind, is somewhat rare; and in describing it, I am compelled to rely
chiefly on my own experience. Where this power exists it exhibits the
faculty of intuitive passive consciousness in full exercise. The will
is entirely inoperative. Not only is no decision formed as to the theme
or its modifications, but there is not even any knowledge of what the next
bar will be. Thus I have constantly sat and listened to my own impro
visations, with as much interest as, and with no more knowledge of,
what was coming next, than another listener would have, and this
statement applies not only to melody or theme, but to the most elabor-
ate modulations of harmony, effected equally, moreover, without any
dependence on a theoretical knowledge of music, and in accordance with
some unknown instinct.
We have seen that in those actions which are suggested
and automatic, the will is able to control the passive conscious-
ness sufficiently to initiate them and to ensure their ultimate
fulfilment. It is far otherwise with those which are intuitive
and automatic. The will of the player may seat him at the organ, but
all its efforts will not cause ideas to flow. The faculty will, indeed, not
being extinguished but only dormant, respond to a limited extent-the
limits being those of habit, and of facility resulting from experience
-but the result will be poor and tame, and will disappoint no one more
than the performer himself. The fact of effort, then, will at once prove
the absence of inspiration, and warn the artist to desist.
The independence of the will shown by the passive consciousness in
its higher manifestation of intuitive power is, in fact, one of its most
remarkable characteristics; and the efforts of will not only fail to
induce these manifestations, but tend to hinder them, by disturbing that
serene and complete absorption in the task, which is essential. It seems
highly probable that the extraordinary powers of impromptu versification
shown by Theodore Hook and the late Mr. Serjeant Payne were of the
same intuitive kind as the faculty of musical improvisation above spoken
of. To sit down to· the piano at a moment's notice and reel off verse
after verse of rhyme, without any consciousness of effort and without
Digitized by Google
Duplex Per8onality. 93
the least previous preparation, seems to imply intuitive power able to
dispense with the ordinary process of intellectual construction. For
consider, in the composition of even the simplest verses on a given
subject, according to the usual method, how many elements of construc-
tion have to be kept in view. There is, first, the rhythm or correct
sylla.bic balance of the lines; next the rhyme requiring a word to be
found at the end of each line phonetically in correspondence with the
one above, and, concurrently with these, the invention of coherent
sentences which shall not only convey definite ideas, but shall do so with
so much wit and appropriateness as to cause the greatest amusement
to the company. I think it probable that if Mr. Hook or Mr. Payne
had been asked the question, they would have said that their conscious
mental participation in the performance was confined to that of a
listener, and that they were wholly unable to say how it was produced,
or to foresee the termination of a verse at the beginning of it.
To a limited extent, and with important modifications, the same
powers are exhibited by an orator. The subjects of an oration are, of
course, prepared entirely by the voluntary activity. of the intellect, so
are also the order in which they come, and similar intellectual activity
is very seldom entirely absent during delivery. But in the
extemporaneous composition of individual sentences there is much that
seems intuitive. A sentence will be begun of which the conclusion is
not foreseen. Words rise at the right moment spontaneously to com-
plete it. Sometimes, indeed, when the speaker is searching either his
memory or his notes for the next head of his discourse, his mind will be
so occupied with this endeavour that he has for a few sentences to
trust almost entirely to the phrase-fonning intuition to keep him going
till he is ready to start on the new subject. In proportion as he is able
to abandon himself to this phrase-forming faculty with confidence, so
will his address be fluent and unconstrained, and so also will he reap
the advantage of being able to concentrate his mind upon the more
important task of marshalling his subjects and elaborating his argu-
ment. In an unpractised speaker, or at the commencement of a speech,
we see the same hindrance offered by the intrusion of the will upon the
automatic powers which we previously noted in the case of the musical
performer. The self-conscious speaker, unable to trust him-
self to automatic guidance, labours to compose each sentence
separately, and consequently trips and stumbles like the player on an
instrument to which he is not accustomed. In connection with the
automatic power of phrase-forming I may here mention a fact drawn
from my own experience. It often happens that in the drewsy con-
dition of incipient slumber, when the active consciousness is almost
inhibited though not entirely lost, phrases form themselves spon-
taneously in the mind, having relation to no subject in particular,
Digitized by Google
940 Duplex Personality.
entirely disjointed from one another, and of course devoid of any
connected sense. Thill suggests an interesting question, viz., whether,
when the condition passes from drowsiness into sleep, these broken
fragments of language ever weld themselves into a coherent whole) and
if so, what may be the effect produced 1 Now, it sometimes has
happened to persons, entirely devoid as they and their friends suppose of
any poetic faculty, to dream of reciting or reading long pieces of poetry-.
They seem in their dream to be reading or reciting it without the
slightest effort of either memory or invention, and to continue some-
times for a space that would occupy several pages. Yet, on waking, not
a word is remembered. The question then arises: Did I, in my
dream, repeat real lines of poetry, or did I only fancy that I was doing
so upon a merely general idea of poetry in the mass 1 The latter idea is
usually accepted by the person himself, on the ground that as he could
not possibly write poetry with any amount of effort when he was awake,
it would be incredible that he should compose it without effort when he
was asleep. I have lately, however, had occasion to doubt this con-
clusion. Dreaming of being at the Royal Academy and of referring to
the catalogue for the name of a picture, I found it, as is often really
the case, described not by a title, but by a verse of poetry ha.ving
relation to its subject. I read off this verse with the same total
absence of effort and unconsciousness of invention that attends all
dreams, and, as it happened, instantly woke. The verse is not worth
quoting, but it rhymed and scanned correctly, had a metaphorical
application quite appropriate to the subject of the picture, and (what
is most significant) it would have heen quite beyond my powers to
have invented it when awake. What followed was equally curious.
While I lay for some time ina drowsy state, the phrase-forming
faculty I have before alluded to seemed to have been set going by the
dream, only that, instead of broken fragments of prose, there ensued
broken snatches of verse, fragments of lines entirely disconnected,
both as to subject and matter.
It would be interesting at this point to search for any parallel to
these intuitive and automatic processes of mind that could be found
in the history of hypnotic experiment. Unfortunately, however, the
last thing hypnotisers ever seem to think of is to encourage the subject
to follow his own intuitions or exercise his own inventive powers, and
from first to last he is made the slave of external suggestion. The only
cases at all resembling the intuitive manifestation of the passive
consciousness I can recall are those of the famous Madame B., whose
secondary self sometimes induced her to take railway journeys, or
write letters; of the patient described in Animal Magmtism,l who,
1 Page 199.
Digitized by Goo~
Duplex Per8onality. 95
in a spontaneous attack of hysteria., commanded his own arm to bleed,
whereupon soon afterwards the cutaneous hremorrhage was displayed;
and of others acting under what is called "self-suggestion."
That these were not self-suggestions in the ordinary sense, that is,
that they were not suggestions proceeding from the primary or active
consciousness, and executed by th~ secondary or passive conscious-
ness, is proved by the fact that as soon as Madame B.'s primary
consciousness was aroused she put a stop to proceedings which it
had never sanctioned. Thus having embarked in a train under the
secondary influence, she left it and returned home as soon as the
primary self resumed its sway.
So also in the other case the suggestion and its execution both
took place while the patient was in the abnormal condition of spon-
taneous hysterical trance.
To sum up: in contrast to our ordinary experience of voluntary
intellectual and ratiocinative activity, which progresses by effort and
gradation, we must recognise the existence in man of a different kind
of consciousness, which I distinguish as "passive," which operates
automatically, instinctively, and sometimes intuitively, and progresses
per ,altum and without effort. To the latter kind of consciousness
belongs what is called Genius, in contrast with Talent, which is
exhibited by the former.
I now proceed to consider how far the active and the passive
consciousness are distinguishable in the operations of the faculty of
memory. An ordinary operation of memory consists-a.s is well known
-in a chain of associated ideas, each idea leading to the next, and that
to the one beyond. Thus the mention of Spain in a geography lesson
provokes the associated ideas of Madrid and Sherry: the occurrence of
the first notes in a tune, or the first words in a poem, provoke the
associated idea of those which follow; if we have an appointment to
keep at noon, the arrival of noon provokes the associated idea of the
appointment, and so on. Taking this to be the memory belonging to
the active consciousness, I would hazard the conjecture that the passi.,,-e
consciousness has also a memory peculiar to itself and fundamentally
different from the other :-the first memory consisting of successive
concatenated impressions, the second of a homogeneous pictorial
impression.
According to this view we should expect the secondary memory of
a hypnotised subject to be able to repeat a lesson as well backwards as
forwards, and this is pretty much what is found to be the case in the
very few experiments that have been tried.
In November, 1888, Mr. G. A. Smith kindly consented to wake
some experiments for me of this nature, and though there was only
opportunity to try them on one subject, the results as far as they went
Digitized by Google
96 Duplex Per8onality.
may be claimed in support of this view. After a number of experi-
ments in repeating figures forwards and backwards and, adding
them up while in the hypnotic sleep, with remarkable results which
there is no time now to consider, the memory peculiar to the passive
consciousness was further tested with short sentences both during the
sleep and after wakening.---fI.g., Sentence read to the subject "all the
makers named are good." He was then told to write the sentence
backwards with the planchette and being awakened he recollected as
usual nothing about it. He was then set to work with the planchette
while a newspaper was held over it and he was occasionally engaged
in conversation. When the planchette ceased the following curious
result was found to have occurred. When told to write the sentence
backwards, the intention was that the words only should be written
in reverse order, but otherwise in the usual way; the subject had,
however, understood the command to be that he should spell the
words backwards and turn the letters the wrong way. In order to
read the writing, therefore, it was necessary to hold it to a looking-
glass, and so held it was quite legible. If any person will attempt to
do the same in his ordinary condition he will discover the difficulty of
the performance, which can only be accomplished, if at aU, for the first
time, by picturiDg to his own mind the reversed appearance of the
letters and words, and this requires a considerable effort; but--a.s I
suggest-the pictorial memory of the passive consciousness succeeded in
doiDg it without the least hesitation or difficulty. (See also Proceed-
ings, Part XI., pp. 306 and 307, in which "a subject of Mr. Gurney's
is reported to have spelt words with a planchette backwards as well as
forwards.)
Another instance of the pictorial or impressional memory is quoted
by Mr. Myers from Dr. Mesnet (Proceedings, Part XI., p. 235). The
subject, a soldier who had received a gunshot wound in the head at
Sedan, leaving extraordinary effects, "was writing on a sheet of paper
which lay on a pile of about ten similar sheets. We quickly drew the top
sheet away, and his pen continued to write on the second sheet." The
automatic nature of the process proves it to have been the work of the
passive consciousness. "This process was repeated, and on the fifth sheet
there was nothing but his signature at the bottom. Nevertheless, he
read over and corrected his letter on this blank fifth sheet, scattering
stops and corrections over the empty page, each of which corresponded
to mistakes made on the co-ordinate points of the pages which had been
snatched away from him." He was, therefore, acting upon a pictorial
memory of what he had written on the preceding sheets.
A similar explanation may be suggested of the memory of drowning
persons who on recovery ha.ve repeatedly declared that they saw the
whole of their past lives spread out before them, including every
Digitized by Google
· Dup~ PerlJO'YU1.lity. 9'1
incident.1 We may suppose that when the active consciousness is
inhibited by suffocation, the pictorial memory of the passive conscious-
ness is sometimes brought into prominence, by which the past life is
presented as on a canvas, so as to form one complete and homogeneous
impression. It is, however, not only in su~h supreme crises that indica-
tions of the passive memory are to be found.
In counting, for instance, we usually adopt the primary method of
reckoning each unit separately. It sometimes happens, however, that
in listening to a clock striking in the night we may forget to count the
strokes until several have struck, but are nevertheless able to recover
the lost ground by considering them as one impression, conveying the
idea of the correct number to the mind. This is in fact counting by
groups instead of units. I am able to adopt it as far as four, but other
persons have told me that they can go as far as six or eight. I conceive
these groups to be realised by the pictorial memory just as the picture
of four dots on a screen would be recognised as such by the eye without
any conscious process of counting.
Binet (La ViBitm Jfentale) remarks on this subject-a.s the result
of a long series of elaborate experiments upon the subjects of hysterica.1
a.ruesthesia.: "Quant ala complexite des operations accomplies par
la conscience secondaire, nous en avons cet exemple, que si on fait un
nombre donne d'excitations insensibles, c'est souvent la conscience
secondaire qui les compte, et la conscience prima.ire n'en connait que Ie
total."
The remainder of Mr. Barkworth's paper deals with analogies
between the phenomena of natural and hypnotic sleep and emotional
stress; emotional and hypnotic a.westhesia.; hypersthenic muscular
exertion during hypnotic catalepsy, somnambulism or emotional excite-
ment; delusions due to insanity and to hypnotic suggestion, &c. The
apparent submergence of moral discrimination sometimes exhibited in
dreams and in the hypnotic state is also dwelt upon and inferences
drawn from it.
1 Instances of this are too numerous to quote. Sinoe this paper was written I
have seeD fresh ODeS mentioned by Du Prel, &c.
II
Digitized by Google
98 Notes oJ Seances with D. D. Home.
VI.
NOTES OF SEANCES WITH D. D. HOME.
By WILLIAM CaOOKEB, F.R.S.
In the year 1874 t published in a collected form various papers,
dating from 1870 to 1874, describing inquiries made by myself,
alone or with other observers, into the phenomena called Spiritual. In a
paper reprinted from the Quarterly Journal of Science, for Janua.ry,
1874, I announced my intention of publishing a book, which should
contain my numerous printed and unprinted observations.
But this projected work has never seen the light. My excuse,-a
real excuse, though not a complete justification,-lies in the extreme
pressure of other work on my time and energies. The chemical and
physical problems of my professional life have become more and more
absorbing; and, on the other hand, few fresh opportunities have
occurred of prosecuting my researches into" psychic force." I must
confess, indeed, that I have been disappointed with the progress of
investigation into this subject during the last fifteen years. I see little
abatement of the credulity on the one hand and the fraud on the other
which have all along interfered, as I hold, with the recognition of new
truth of profound interest.
The foundation of the Society for Psychical Research has, however,
somewhat altered the situation. We have here a body of inquirers of
whom the more prominent, so far as I can judge, are quite sufficiently
critical in their handling of any evidence making for extraordinary
phenomena, while they bring to the task that patience and diligence
without which an investigation of this sort is doomed to failure.
Invited to contribute to the Society for Psychical Research Proceed-
ings, some of my notes on seances with D. D. Home, I feel I ought not
to decline. I am not satisfied with these notes; which form, so to
say, only a few bricks for an intended edifice it is not now probable
I shall ever build. But, at least, they are accurate transcripts of facts
which I still hold to be of deep importance to science. Their publica-
tion wilf, at any rate, show that I have not changed my mind; that
on dispassionate review of statements put forth by me nearly twenty
,years ago I find nothing to retract or to alter. I have discovered no
flaw in the experiments then made, or in the reasoning I based upon
them.
I am too well aware there have been many exposures of fraud on
the part of mediums; and, that some members of the Society for
Psychical Research have shown the possibility of fraud under circum-
Digitized by Google
Notes of Siances with D. D. Hcnne. 99
stances where Spiritualists had too readily assumed it was not possible.
I am not surprised at the evidence of fraud. I have myself frequently
detected fraud of various kinds, and I have always made it a rule in
weighing Spiritualistic evidence to assume that fraud may have been
attempted, and ingeniously attempted, either by seen or unseen agents.
I was on my guard even in D. D. Home's case, although I am bound
to say that with him I never detected any trickery or deceit what-
ever, nor heard any first-hand evidence of such from other persons.
At the same time, I should never demand that anyone should con-
sider Home, or any other medium, as "incapable of fraud," nor should
I pin my faith upon any experiment of my own or others which fraud
could explain. The evidence for the genuineness of the phenomena
obtained by Home in my presence seems to me to be strengthened
rather than weakened by the discussions on conjuring, and the ex-
posures of fraud which have since taken place. The object of such
discussions is to transform vague possibilities of illusion and deception
into fkfinite possibilities; so far as this has yet been done, it has, I
think, been made more clear that certam. of Home's phenomena fall
quite outside the category of marvels producible by sleight of hand
or prepared apparatus.
But I must not be supposed to assert that all, or even most of,
the phenomena recorded by me were such as nojuggling could simulate.
Many incidents,-as slight movements of the table, &c.,-were
obviously and easily producible by Home's hands or feet. Such move·
ments, &c., I have recorded,-not as in themselves proving anything
strange,-but simply as forming part of a series of phenomena, some
of which do prove, to my mind, the operation of that "new force"
in whose existence I still firmly believe. Had I described these seanc68
with a view to sensational effect, I should have omitted all the non-
evidential phenomena, and thus have brought the marvels out in
stronger relief. Such was not my object. In most cases the notes
were written-primarily for my own information,-while the phenomena
were actually going forward, but on some few occasions they were
copied or expanded immediately after the seance from briefer notes
taken at the time. They are here reprinted verbatim j and the petty
details which render them tedious to read will supply the reader with
all the material now available for detecting the imposture, if any,
which my friends and I at the time were unable to discover. I
My object in publishing these notes will have been attained if they
should aid in inducing competent observers, in this or other countries,
to repeat similar experiments with accurate care, and in a dispassionate
1 The note. here published are accounts of eelected Han08ll, but in each -
tIelected, the full account of the IIhnce is given.
!I 2 _
Digitized by Google
100 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
spirit. Most assuredly, 80 far as my knowledge of science goes, there is
absolutely no reason Ii priori to deny the possibility of such phenomena
as I have described. Those who assume--as is assumed by some
popular writers-that we are now acquainted. with all, or nearly all, or
even with any assignable proportion, of the forces at work in the
universe, show a limitation of conception which ought to be
impossible in an age when the widening of the circle of our definite
knowledge does but reveal the proportionately widening circle of
our blank, absolute, indubitable ignorance.
(1.) WBDNEl1DAY, MAy 9th, 1871.-Sitting at 81, South Audley-street,
(Miss' Douglas's house). From 9 to 11 p.m.
Present :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Miss Douglas, Mrs. Gregory, Mr.
O. R., Mr. W. F., Mrs. W. F., Mr. Crookes.
In the front drawing-room, at a 100 table on centre pillar and three
feet, diameter three feet, weight 32Ib., cloth on (occasionally turned up to
give light below).
One candle on table, two on mantelpiece, one on side table. Towards
end of Bitting (during the fire test) the candle on the table and one on
the mantelpiece were put out. The others were alight the whole time. An
RCCordion was on the table.
A wood fire, somewhat dull, in the grate.
Temperature very comfortable all the evening.
Order of sitting:
D.D.HOME. MI!W.F
A small sofa table stood about two feet from Miss Douglas and Mr.
Home in the position shown in diagram. Miss Douglas commenced by
reading aloud a few extracts from Robert Chambers's introduction to Mr.
Home's book, Incident. of my Life.
PMuomeflG.-The table tilted several times in four or five directions at
an angle of about 25deg., and kept inclined sufficiently long for those who
willbed to look under with a candle and examine how the hands of Mr. Home
and the others present were touching it. Sometimes it stood on two legs,
and sometimes it was balanced on one. I, wbo had brought a spring
balance in my pocket, was now invited'by Mr. Home to try an experiment
in the alteration of weight.
Digitized by Google
Notes of Seances with D. D. H~. 101
As it would have been inconvenient without disturbing the sitting to
have experimented on the total weight of the table, t.he balance was
hooked under one edge of the table, and the force required to tilt it
measured.
.lkperiment 1.-" Be light." An upward pull of 21b. required to lift one
of the feet off the ground, all hands lightly touching the top of the table.
Ezperiment 2.-"Be heavy." As soon as this was said, the table
creaked, shuddered, and appeared to settle it.aelf firmly into the lloor. The
effect was as if the power of a gigantic electro-magnet had been suddenly
turned on, the table constituting the armature. All hands were, as before,
very lightly touching the upper surface of the table with their fingers. A
force of 36lb. was now required to raise the foot of the table from the lloor.
I lifted it up and down four or five times, and the index of the balance kept
pretty constant at 36lb., not varying more than lIb. Whilst this was going
on, each person's hands were noticed. They were touching the table 80
lightly that their aggregate downward preBlure could not have been many
ounces. Mr. Home once lifted his hands for a moment quite off the tallle.
His feet were tucked back under his chair the whole time.
Experiment 3.-"Be light." Conditions the same as before. An upward
pull of 71b. required to tilt the table.
Ezperimetlt ~-" Be heavy." The same creaking noise as in Experiment 2
was again heard. Every person (except Mr. O. R. and myself, who was
standing up trying the experiment) put the ends of the fingers under-
flMth the table top,t.he palma being upwards and the thumbs visible, 80 that,
if any force were uncollsciously exerted, it should tend to diminish the
weight. At the same time Mr. O. R. took a csndle and stooped under the
table to see that no one was touching the legs of the table with their knees
or feet. I also stooped down OCCBBionally to verify Mr. O. R.'s statement
that all was fair bencsth. Upon applying the spring balance, I saw that
the table was pulled up at ~51b. Immediately this was announced I felt
an increase of weight, and, after a few trials, the pull was increased to 48lb.,
at which point the index stood steady, the leg of the table being about 3in.
off the lloor.
Experi_1t 5.-" Be hcsvy." The conditions were the same as before,
a little more care being taken by the sitters to keep their feet well tucked
under their chairs. Hands touching the under side of the table top as before.
The index of the balance rose steadily, without the table moving in the
least, until it pointed to 461b. At this point the table rose an inch, when
the hook of the balance slipped off, and the table returned to its place with
a crasb. The iron hook had bent out sufficiently to prevent it holding the
table firmly any longer, 80 the experiments were obliged to be discontinued.
(After the seallce was over, the normal weight of the table was taken. Its
total weight was 321b. In order to tilt it in the manner described in ~he
experiments a pull of Sib. was required. When lifted straight up at three
equi-distant points, the spring-balance being at one point, a pull of 100b. was
required. The accuracy of the balance could be depended on to about lib.,
not more.)
Raps were heard from different parts of the table and the floor, and the
table quivered rapidly several times.
Digitized by Google
102 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
Mr. Home appeared slightly convulsed about the arma and body. Sud-
denly he Baid aloud, "Robert Chambers is hore; I feel him." Three loud
raps wore immediately heard from the IlmaU BOfa table about two feet behind
Mias DouglM, and this table then alowly glided up to within five inches of
MiasDouglas and Mr. Home. The movement was very st~y and noiaeleas,
and occupied about five seconds in going the distance of 20 inches. When
it stopped, Mr. Home drew attention to the fact that both his feet were under
his chair and all hands were on the table. He moved a little nearor to
Mr. O. R. and turned his legs and feet as far away from the table as he
could, asking the sitters to make themselves quite certain that he could
not have produced the movement of the table. While this was being
noticed, the small table again moved, this time slowly and a quarter of an
mch at a time, until it wasagain close to Mr. Home and Mias Douglas.
A flower in a glaas standing in the centre of the small table was moved,
but not taken out of the glaas.
Mr. Home and then Mias Douglas said they felt touched under the
table. The sleeve of Mias Douglas's dreas was pulled up and down several
times in full view of all present. Mr. Home Baid he asw a hand doing it.
No one else BaW this; but Mias Douglas felt a hand, which, however, was in-
visible, put on her wrist immediatelyafter.
/ Mr. Home held the accordion under'the table by one hand, letting the
,/ keyed end hang downwards. Presently it commenced to BOund, and then
played "Ye Banks and Braes," &c., and other airs, and imitated an echo
very beautifully. Whilst it was playing in Mr. Ho~e's hand (his other hand
being quietly on the table) the other gentlemell looked under the table 110
see what WI\B going on. I took particular notice that, when the instru-
ment was playing, Mr. Home held it lightly at the end opposite the keys,
that Mr. Home's feet had boots on and were both quiet at some distance
v from the instrument, and that, although the keyed end was rising and fall-
ing vigorously and the keys moving as the music required, no hand, strings,
wires, or anything else could bQ seen touching that end.
Mr. O. R. then held the accordion by the plain end, Mr. Home touching
it at the Bame time. Presently it began to move and then commenced to
play. Mr. Home then moved his hand away and the instrument continued
playing for a short time in Mr. O. R.'s hand, both of Mr. Home's hands
being then above the table.
" Some questions were then asked and answers were given by 'raps and
notes on the accordion. The alphabet being called for by five raps, the
following message WI\B spelled out :--" It is a glorious truth. It WI\B the
BOlace of my earth life and the triumph over the change called death. Robert
Chambers."
A private me88&ge to Mias Douglas was given in the Bame manner.
The table was then tilted several times as before, and once rose com-
pletely off the ground to a height of about three inches.
Mr. Home Bank back in his chair with his eyes closed and remained still
for a few minuteR. He then rose up in a trance and made signs for his
eyes to be blindfolded. Thill was done. He walked about the room
in an undecidod sort of manner, came up to each of the sitters and made
some remark to them. He went to the candle on a side table (close to
Digitized by Google
.Notes of Seances with D. D. Home. 103
the large table) and p&88ed bis fingem backwards and forwards through
the flame several tunes 80 Blowly that they must have been severely
burnt under ordinary circu1U8tances. He then held his fingem up,
smiled and nodded 8.8 if pleased, took up a fine cambric handkerchief
belonging to Miss Douglas, folded it up on his right hand and went to the
fire. Here he threw off the bandage from his eyes and by means of
the tonga lifted a piece of red hot charcoal from the centre and deposited
it on the folded cambric; bringing it &croBS the room, he told us to
put out the candle which was on the table, knelt down clOse to Mm.
W. F. aud spoke to her about it in a low voice. Occasionally he fanned
the coal to a white heat with his breath. Coming a little further round
the room, he spoke to Mias Douglas saying, "We shall have to bum "
very small bole in the handkerchief. We have a reaaon for this which
you do not see." Presently he took the coal back to the fire and handed
the handkerchief to Miss Douglas. A small hole about half an inch in
diameter W8.8 bumt in the centre, and there were two small points near
it, but it W8.8 not even singed anywhere else. (I took the handkerchief
away with me and on teating it in my laboratory, found that it had not
undergone the slighteat chemical preparation which could have rendered it
fire-proof. )
Mr. Home again went to the fire, and after stirring the hot coal about
with h_is hand, took out a red-hot piece nearly 8.8 big 8.8 an orange, and put-
ting it on his right hand, covered it over with his left hand 80 8.8 to almost
completely enclose it, and then blew into the small furnace thus extemporised
until the lump of charcoal W8.8 nearly White-hot, and then drew my attention
to the lambent flame which W8.8 flickering over the coal and licking round
his fingem; he fell on his knees, looked up ina reverent manner, held up
the coal in front and said: "Is not God good 7 Are not His laws won-
derful'"
Going again to the fire, he took out another hot coal with his hand and
holding it up said to me, .. Is not that a beautiful large bit, William 1 We
want to bring that to you. Pay no attention at present." The coal, how-
ever, W8.8 not brought. Mr. Home said: .. The power is going," and soon
came back to his chair and woke up.
Mr. O. R. left at 11 o'clock. After this, nothing particular took place.
The following refers to a somewhat similar incident :-
E1:tractfrom a lettel' from M,·. Orooku to Mrs. Hone1J1000d, describing an inci-
dent at a &ante (m April 28th, atwl incorporated in Mrs. Honeyu:ood"
notes of the seance.
At Mr. Home's request, whilst he W8.8 entranced, 1 went with him
to the fireplace in the back drawing-room. He said, "We want you to
notice particularly what Dan is doin!t." Accordingly 1 stood close to the
fire and stooped down to it when he put his hands in. He very deliberately
pulled the lumps of hot coal off, one at a time, with his right hand and
touched one which W8.8 bright red. He then said, "The power is not strong
on Dan's hand, 8.8 we have been influencing the handkerchief most. It is
more difficult to influence an inanimate body like that than living flesh, 80, aa
the circumstances were favourable, we thought we would show you that we
Digitized by Google
104 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
could prevent a red-hot coal from burning a handkerchief. We will collect
more poweron the handkerchief and repeat it before you. Now!"
Mr. Home then waved the handkerchief about in the air two or three
times, held it up above his head and then folded it up and laid it on his hand
like a cushion: putting his other hand into the fire, took out a large lump of
cinder red·hot at the lower part and placed the red part on the handkerchief.
Under ordinary circumstances it would have been in a blaze. In about half a
minute, he took it oft' the handkerchief with his hand, saying, "As the power
is not strong, if we leave the coal longer it will burn." He then put it on
his hand and brought it to the table in the front room, where all but myself
had remained seated.
(Signed) WILLLU( CRooKBB.
(II.) MONDAY, MAY 22nd, 1871.-Sitting at 81, South Audley-street,
the residence of Miss Douglas. From 9.45 to 11 p.m.
Pt'Ulmt :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Miss Douglas, Mr. B., Mr.
Alfred Rusael Wallace, Mrs. Wm. Orookes, Mr. Wm. Orooke&.
In the front drawing-room, at a 100 table, supported on centre pillar and
three feet. Lighted with candles the whole of the evening.
Order of sitting:-
Mlls.D. M~WI!C
The small sofa table, mentioned in the account of the last _nce at this
house, was about two feet behind Miss Douglas. An accordion belonging to
me was on the table, and a small candlestick and candle.
Pht1lomt1la.-In a few minutes a slight tremor of the table w&8felt. Mr.
A. R. Wallace W&8 touched. Then Mrs. Orookes felt her knee touched and her.
dreas pulled. Miss Douglas's dreas W&8 pulled, and I W&8 touched on my
right knee &8 by a heavy hand firmly placed on it.
The table tilted up on two and sometimes on one leg several times, rising
at the side opposite each person successively, whilst all who wished took the
candle and examined underneath to see that no one of the party W&8 doing
it with the feet. Granting that Mr. Home might have been able, if he so
desired, to influence mechanically the movement of the table, it is eVident
that he could only have done so in two directions, but here the table moved
successively in six directions.
The table now rose completely oft' the ground several times, whilst the
gentlemen present took a candle, and kneeling down, deliberately examined
the position of Mr. Home's feet and knees, and saw the three feet of the
table quite oft'the ground. This was repeated, until each observer expreaaed
himself satisfied that the levitation W&8 not produced by mechanical means
on the part of the medium or anyone else present.
Digitized by Google
Notes of &ances with D. D. Home. 105
The alphabet was now called for by five raps. The letters given out were
taken down :-
"We igh-"
Thinking this the commencement of a sentence we tried to get the next
le~ter, but no response was given. Then we said that BOme letter had been
given wrong. One thump said emphatically, "No." We then said, "We
have got the first word •We' all right, but we want the second word." "Is
i right 1" " Yes." .. Is g right 1" " Yes. " "Is It, right 1" " Yes."
After thinking for a moment it suddenly occurred to us that the word was
" Weigh," and that it referred to an experiment I had come prepared to
repeat-that of measuring the variation in weight of the table by means of
a spring balance.
A perfect shower of raps showed that this interpretation was the correct
one.
I accordingly repeated the experiments which were tried at the last
sitting at this houae, using a stronger spring balance.
Experiment 1.-" Be light." The table tilted, when the balance showed
a weight of scarcely half a pound•
.l?l:periment 2.-" Be heavy." The table now bore a pull of 201b. before
it tilted up on one side, all hands being placed under the top edge of the
table, thumbs visible.
Experiment 3.-1 now asked if the opposing force could.be so applied as to
oause the table to rise up off the ground quite horizontally when I was pulling.
Immediately the table rose up completely off the ground, the top keeping
quite horizontal, and the apring balance showing a pull of 23lb. During
this experiment Mr. Home's hands were put on the table, the others being
under as at fin.t•
.Experiment 4.-" Be heavy." All handa beneath the table top. It
required a pull of 43lb. to lift the table from the floor this time.
E:eperiment 5.-" Be heavy." This time Mr. B. took a lighted candle and
looked under the table to assure himself that the additional weight was not
produced by anyone's feet or otherwise. Whilst he was there observing I
tried with the balance aud found that a pull of 27lb. was required to lift the
table up. Mr. Home, Mr. A. R. Wallace, and the two ladies had their fingers
fairly under the top of the table, and Mr. B. said that no one was touching
the table beneath to cause the increase of weight.
When these experiments were finished we all sat quietly round the table
for a few minutes, when suddenly the small sofa-table came up to within
about six inches of Miss Douglas. It glided along with a quick, steady
movement. It did not move agaiu after it stopped the first time.
(Just before I sat down to the seance, remembering that this table had
moved up to the circle apparently of its own accord the last time we had a
seance here, I pushed the table a little away from its usual place, putting it
just about two feet behind Misa Douglas's chair.
I took notice then that there was no string or anything elae attached to it.
After I had 80 placed it no one elae went near it, so that its movement on this
occasion was entirely beyond suspicion.)
Miss Douglas's chair moved partly round. On attempting to replace it as
106 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
before ahe said she could not move it, as it was firmly fixed to the floor. I
attempted to pull it along, but it resisted all my efforts.
Mr. Home's chair then moved 8everal times, IUld tilted up on two legs,
whilst Mr. Home's feet were up in the chair in a semi-kneeling P08ture, and
his hand8 before him not touching anything.
The table cloth in front of Mr. Home just at the edge of the table was
bulged outwardsas if a hand were beneath it,and we then saw a movement of
the cloth as if fingers were moving under it.
Mr. Home then took the accordion in one hand in his usual manner, and
held it beneath the table. At first chords were BOunded, and then a very
beautiful piece with bass and treble was played. Each of the gentlemen in
turn looked at the accordion under the table whilst it was playing.
Mr. A. R. Wallace then asked for" Home, 8weet Home." A few bare
of this air were immediately BOunded. He looked under the table and said
he saw a hand distinctly moving the instrument up and down, and playing
on the keys. Mr. Home had one hand 011 the table and was holding the top
end of the accordion, whil8t Mr. A. R. Wallace saw this hand at the bottom
end where the keys were.
(ill.) MOND.Y, JUNB 19th, 1871.-Sitting at 81, South Audley-etreet.
From 9 to 11 p.m.
Pruent :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mi88 Douglas, Mrs. Gregory, Mrs.
Wm. Crookes, Mr. Wm. Crooke8, Mr. H.
In the front drawing-room at the smallround table three feet indiameter.
Order of .i~ting, &c. :-
I 10 I
v::>8',,",l;"w'c.
,~ "
,'-
\, M!HOME
.,,
~\
~\
cQ_~~~M"'C_
3.FT
7.-Original position of small table.
8.-Position where table (7) was first taken to.
9.-" " " next"
10.-Small table behind Mrs. Wm. Crookea.
11.-Position where table (10) was taken to.
Just before sitting down, remembering that the table (7) had been
moved on the last occasion, I went to it and pushed it into the furthest
corner of the room.
After sitting for BOme little time we had raps, and movements of the
Digitized by Google
Noles 0/ Seances with D. D. Home. 107
table. I asked if 1 might weigh the table when Mr. Home was not touching
it at all.-" Yes."
&petimetlt 1.-1 thereupon fixed the spring balance to it, and asking
for it to be made heavy tried to lift it off the ground. 11; required a
pull of 23lb. to raise it. During this time Mr. Home was sitting back in
his chair, his hands quite off the table and his feet touching those on each
side of him.
Lperimmt 2.-" Be heavy" again. Mr. H. now took a candle, and
stooping down looked under the table to Bee that no one was touching
it there, whilst 1 was observing the same at the top. Mr. Home's
hands and feet were the same as before. The balance now showed a tension
of 22lb. .
Experiment 3 was now tried, Mr. Home being further from the table.
A pull of 171b. was required.
Ih:perimetlt 4.-When we said" Be light." the table rose at 121b. On
trying afterwards the normal pull required to tilt it, we found it to be
141b.
It was now proposed to put out the candlesand sit by the light coming .in
from the windows, which was quite suflicientto enable us to see each other,
and the principal articles of furniture in the room.
We presently heard a noise in the back drawing·room as if a man had got
offthe couch and was comingto us. Mrs. Wm. Crookeslaid it came up to her,
and she then felt a pair of large hands on her head, then on her shoulders
and on her back. Her chair was then moved partly round towards Mrs.
Gregory away from Mr. Home.
A noiseand crash as of something flilling was now heard behind Mrs.
Wm. Crookes's chair, and the small table (10) was preaaed up close to her.
Her chair was tilted up till she was jammed between the back of the chair and
the table we were sitting round, and her chair resisted all her efforts to preas
it down.
Rape came, and a message to get a light.
On lighting the candle it was Been that the noise had been caused by a
picture which had been on the table resting against the wall, falling down on
to the lI.oor. It was uninjured. The table (10) had been moved up close to
Mrs. Wm. Crookes, between her and Mr. Home.
Mr. Home then took the accordion in his right hand ill the usual manner,
and placing his left on the table it was held both by Miss Douglas and Mrs.
Wm. Crookea. The light was then put out, and the following message was
spe1t:-
" The Four Seasons. Winter first."
" Spring.-The Birth of the Flowers."
" Birds in Summer."
The above messages were given whilst the piece was being played. It
would be impoasible to give any idea of the beauty of the music, or its
exprossive character. During the part typifying summer we had a beautjful
accompaniment, the chirping and singing of the birds being heard along with
the accordion. During autumn, we had .. The Last Rose of Summer"
played.
Digitized by Google
108 Note8 of Seances with D. D. Home.
Home said that the spirit playing was a stranger to him. Itwas a high
and very powerful one, and was a female who had died young.
Mrs. Wm. Crookea said: "Is it my cousin M-- 7 It has flashed into
my mind that it is she."
Answer by raps: " Yea."
We then heard a rustling noise on a heliotrope which 19'88 growing in a
flower-pot standingon the table between Mr. Home and Mrs.Wm. Crookea. On
looking round Mrs. Wm. Crooke. saw what appeared to be a luminous cloud
on the plant. (Mr. Home said it was a hand.) We then heard the crackling
as of 8 sprig being broken oft', and then a meaaage came :-
" Four Ellen."
Immediately the white luminous cloud 19'88 seen to travel from the helio-
tl'Ope to Mrs. Wm. C.'s hand, and a small sprig of the plant was put into it.
She had her hand then patted by a delicate femlUe hand. She could not see
the hand itself, but only a halo of luminous vapour over her hand.
The table (7) was now heard to be moving, and it was seen to glide slowly
up to the side of Mias Douglas, to the position marked (8), about three-feet.
Mias Douglas cried out," Oh I Oh I How very curious I I have had something
carried round my neck. It is now put into my hand. It is a piece of heath."
A meaaage came :-
"In Memoriam."
Mr. Home said, "Count the number of flowers on the sprig. There is
a meaning in all this." Eleven were counted. (Mr. Robert Chambers had
eleven children.)
The candle (which had been lighted to ascertain tbis) was again put out.
l'dr. Home took the accordion in his right hand, whilat his other hand was
beld by Mias Douglas and Mrs. Wm. Crookea. The others present also
joined handa. The accordion played, and we then saw something white
move from the table close to Mias Douglas, pasa behind her and Mr. Home,
and come into the circle between him and Mrs. Wm. Crookes. It floated about
for half a minute, keeping a foot above the table. It touched Mrs. Wm.
Crookes, then went round near to the others as if floating about with a cir-
cular movement. It preae~ltly settled on the backs of Mias Douglas's, Mr.
Home's, and Mrs. Wm. Crookea's hands, which were graaped together. The
meaaage was given :-
"Light, and look,"
and we then saw that the floating object had been a china card plate with
carda in it, which had previoualy been on the table behind Mias Douglas.
The light was again put out, and we then heard a sticking and scraping
along the floor, and then a heavy bump against the door. Very loud raps
were then heard on the table and in other parts of the room. Movements
of the table were felt, and then all was quiet. We lighted the candle and
saw that the small table which had already moved up to Mias Douglas, had
travelled right acroaa the room, a distance of nine feet, and, thumpingagainat
the door, had produced the noise we had all heard.
Nothing else took place after this.
(IV.) WBDNBSD.A.Y, JUNK 21st, 1871.-Sitting at 20, Momington-road
(private reaidence of Mr. Crookes). From 8.40 to 10.30 p.m.
Digitized by Google
Notes Qf Seances with D. D. Home. 109
Pre.tetlt:-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), MrB.Wr. Crookes, Mr.Wr. Crookes,
Mrs. Humphrey, Mr. C. Gimingham, Mr. Serjt. Cox, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mrs. Wm. Crookes, Miss A. Crookes.
In the dining-room lighted by one gas burner. Round the dining table
without a leaf in it.
On the table was an accordion belonging to myself; a long thin wooden
lath ; a pencil and 1I0me paper; and by the side, partly resting on the table, was
an apparatus for testingalteration in the weight of a body. It consisted of a
A L...---r--r---.,rr----------.J B
mahogany board, AB,36 inches long, 9 inches wide, and linch thick, supported
at the end B by a spring balance, and resting at C on the fiAt stand by means
of a wooden fulcrum cut to a knife edge and 3 inches from the end A. D isa
Klaas bowl of water, standing on the board in such a manner that its weight
partly fell between the fulcrum C and the end B, producing with the weight
of the board a tension of 51b. on the spring balance. E is a hemispherical
copper v_I, perforated at the bottom and firmly supported on a massive
iron stand rising from the floor. E was 80 arranged that it dipped into water
in D, but was 2 inches from D all round the circumference, and 51 inches
from the bottom. It was sufficiently firmly supported to prevent any knock-
ing or pushing to which it might be subjected from being communicated to
the glaas vessel D and thence to the board and spring balance. I and my
&llistant had well tested it in this respect beforehand.1
Under the table was the wire cage deacrlbed previously,2 and three Groves
cells were in· connection with the surrounding wire. A commutator in the
circuit,prevented a current circulating till I pressed down a key.
PMnometIa.-AlmOlt immediately very strong vibrations of the table were
felt. Answers to questions "Yes" and .. No" were given by these
vibrations.
Mr. Home's hands were contracted in a very curious and painful looking
manner. He then got up and gently placod the fingers of his right hand in
the copper vessel E, carefullyavoidingcomingnear any other part of theappa-
ratus. Mrs. Wm. Crookes, who was sitting near the apparatus, saw the end B
ofthe board gently descend and then rise again. On referring to the automatic
register it showed that an increased tension of 10 ounces bad been produced.
Nothing more took place.
1 Compare QuarUrill Juuma[, of &imce for October, 1811.
I See QuarUrill JOUt'fW oj Science for July, 18n.
Digitized by Google
110 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
N.) WEDNBSDAY, JUNE 2lat, 1871.-Sitting at 20, Mornington-road.
From 10.45 to 11.45. (This stSance was held shortly after the previousone.
We all Aot up, moved about, openedthe windows, and ('hanged our positions.
Mi88 A. Crookea then left, and we proposed sitting down again.)
Prerent :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mrs. Wr. Crookea, Mr. Wr.
Crookes, Mrs. Humphrey, Mr. C. Gimingham, Mr. Serjt. Cox, Mr. Wm.
Crookea, Mrs. Wm. Crookea.
In the dining-room. The table and apparatus the same as before.
The light was diminished, but there was atilllight enough to enable us to
distinguish each other plainly and see every movement. The apparatus was
also distinctly visible.
The automatic register was pushed up close to the index of the balance.
We IIIlt in the following order :-
M","C. D.D.H.-
A
M!lC.C. M"IC.
SERC! C.
A was a lath already mentioned.1
Almost immediately a measage came, •• Hands oft'." After sitting quiet for
a minute or two, all holding hands, we heard loud raps on tbe table; then
on the floor by the weight apparatus. The apparatus was then moved and
the spring balance was heard to move about .trongly. We then had the
following measage :-
.. Weight altered a little. Look...
I then got up and looked at the register. It had descended to 14tb., showiDg
an additional tension of (14-5-) 91b.
As this result had been obtained when there was BCal'Cely light enough to
see the board and index move, I asked for it to be repeated when there was
more light. The gas was turned up and we at as before. Presently the
board was seen to move up and down (Mr. Home being some distance oft'
and not touching the table, his hands being held), and the index was aeen to
descend to 7Ib., where the register stopped. Thill showed a tension of
7-5=2Ib.
J See seance lV.
Digitized by Google
Notes of Seances with D. D. Home. 111
Mr. Home now told us to alter our position. We now sat as follows :-
MI!!WI!IC. SERe! C.
I I
MtrC.C. "~HDME
MIJWI!'C. M'''H.
A me&Mge was given :-
" All handa except DaD's off the table."
Mr. Home thereupon moved his chair to the extreme'comer of the table
and turned his feet quite away from the apparatus close to Mrs. H. Loud
raps were heard on the table and then on the mahogany board, and the
latter was shaken rather strongly up and down. The following message was
thengiven :-
" We have now done our utmost."
On going to the spring balance it was seen by the register to have
descended to 9lb., showing an increase of tension of (9-5=) 4tb.
The apparatus was now removed away from the table, and we returned to
our old places (see first diagram).
We 86t still for a few minutes, when a meaaage came :-
" Handa off the table, and all joined."
We therefore sat as directed.
Juat in front of Mr. Home and on the table, in about the posit.ion shown
at A on the first diagram, was a thin wooden lath 23! inches long, Ii inch
wide, and f inch thick, covered with white paper. It was plainly visible to
all, and was one foot from the edge of the table.
Presently the end of this lath, pointing towards Mr. Wr. Crooke&, rose up
in the air to the height of about 10 inches. The other end then rose up to a
height of about five inches, and the lath then floated about for more than a
minute in this position, suspended in the air, with 110 visible means of sup-
port. It moved sideways and waved gently up and down, just like a piece
of wood on the top of small waves of the sea. The lower end then gently
sank till it touched the table and the other end then followed.
WhiIat we were all speaking about this wonderful exhibition of force the
lath began to move again, and rising up as it did at first, it waved about in &
somewhat similar manner. The 'startling novelty of this movement having
now worn off, we were all enabled to follow ita motions with more accuracy.
Mr. Home was sitting away from the tablo at least three feet from the lath
all this time; he was apparently quite motionleaa, and his handa were
Digitized by Google
112 ,Notes of Seances with D. D. Hom.e.
tightly grasped, his right by Mrs. Wr. Crookes and his left by Mrs. Wm.
Crookes. Any movement by his feet was impossible, as, owing to the large
cage being under the table, his legs were notable to be put beneath, but were
visible to those on each side of him. All the othera had hold of hands. As
soon as this was over the following message was given :-
" We have to go now j but before going we thank you for your patience.
Mary sends love to aunt, and will play another time."
The 8ISance then broke up at a quarter to twelve.
(VI.) FRIDAY, JUNK 23rd, 1871. Sitting at 20, Momington-road. From
8.30 to 11 p.m.
Pruent :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mrs. Wr. Crookes, Mr. Wr.
Crookes, Mias Bird, Serjt. Cox, Mrs. Humphrey, Dr. Bird, Mias A.
Crookes, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mrs. Wm. Crookes.
In the dining-room; lighted sometimes by one gas burner, sometimes by
salted spirit lamp, sometimes by light from street.
The dining-table had no flap in it, but was slightly optlned in the centre
(about four inches); On the table were the accordion, a small hand bell,
lath, paper, pencil, phosphorus half under water, and a spirit lamp with a
BaIted wick.
Order of aitting :-
Mlss.B. M~WI,IC.
MI!!W!C.
SERe'! C.
Mip HOME
M'!~ H.
DU. Mlss.A.C. MIJI WI!! C.
The cloth was on the table all thia time.
At firat we Bat with one gas burner alight.
After aitting for about 10 minutes the table vibrated strongly, and gave
a definite number of vibrations at our request on two or three occasions. It
felt like a strong, quick shudder passing through it.
Mr. Home now took the accordion in the usual manner and held itunder
the table. It was presently sounded and notes played. During this time
Mias Bird and Dr. Bird got under the table and BaW the movement. The
gas was now put out and the spirit lamp lighted. The yellow flame made
everything look very ghastly and quite took the colour out of Mrs. Wm.
Crookes's coral ornaments. She took oft' her coral necklace, and laid it on the
table cloth, just over the opening in the table by the spirit lamp. In a short
Digitized by Google
Notes of Seances with D. D. Home. 113
time something poked up the cloth and moved the corals, repeating the •
movement two or three times.1
Mr. Home then put the accordion on the Hoor, and placed both his hands
on the table. In a short time we all heard a movement of the accordion
under the table, and accordingly Mr. Home placed one hand in Mrs.
Wm. Crookes's hands, the other in Mrs. Wr. Crookes's hands, and placed
both his feet beneath my feet. In this manner it was physically impossible
for him to have touched the accordion with hands or -feet. The lamp
also gave plenty of light to allow all present seeing any movement on
his part. The accordion now commenced to Bound, and then played
several notes and bars. Every one present expressed themselves quite
oonvin('.ed that this result could not poBBibly have been effected by Mr.
Home's agency.
Mr. Wr. Crookes now said that the accordion was brought up to his knees
and preBBed against them. He put his hand down and took it by the handle.
It then played in his hand, Mr. Home's hands and feet being held by oth~rs
as before. Presently Mr. Wr. Crookes said that the accordion had left his
hand (which he then put on to the table). We could hear it moving about
under the table, and then it presscd up against my knees, and on putting my
hand down I felt the handle turned into my hand. I held it for a minute
but it did not play. I then gave it to Mr. Home, and it then played
in his right hand a tune which Serjt. Cox had asked for, "Ye Banks
and BraeB," &C.
After this a very beautiful piece of music was played. It was remarked,
"This must be the music of the spheres." A message was given:-
" This is."
After a little time the music stopped and we turned the light lower, but still
1 Miss Bird writes :-
I remember the circumstances stated in this seance. I had noticed that the
necklace worn by Mrs. Wm. Crookes looked green. I asked her why her beads
were green. She assured me they were her oorals, and to convince me the
necklace was passed into my hands. Instead of passing the necklace back I simply
put it opposite me in the middle of the table. Almost as soon as I had placed the
neck1aoe it 1'086 in a spiral shape. I called out eagerly to my brother, Dr. Bird,
to look at the extraordinary conduct of the threaded corals, and whilst I was
endeavouring to get his attention the erect necklaoe quietly Bubeidedin a coil on the
table. I have often recalled the incident, and although a sceptic by instinct, this one
strange experience has made it impossible for me to doubt the assertions of others
whoee judgment is clear and whose uprightness is above suspicion.
October. 1889. ALICB L. BIRD.
To this Dr. Bird adds :-
I recollect my sister calling ont to me, .. Look, look, at the necklace," b~at that
moment my attention was directed elsewhere, and I did not actually see the pheno-
menon in question. GBORGB BIRD.
At the moment this oocurred I was writing my notes and only caught sight of the
neclclaoe as it WaR settling down from ita first movement. It made one or two slight
movemente afterwards, and, as I state, it seemed to me as if it had been moved from
below. I mentioned this at the time and was then told by Miss Bird and others that
the necklace had behaved as is now described by her. Not having seen it myself I
did not alter the statement in my note·book. W. CBOOJ[II8.
I
Digitized by Goo~
,
114 Notes of Sea'nC68 with D. D. Home.
keeping enough to enable us to see plainly all that was going on. The music
commenced again strongly, and then Mr. Home brought the accordion over
the top of the table and held it opposite to Dr. Bird. We then all saw it con-
tracting and expanding vigorously, and heard it emitting sounds, Mr. Home
part of this time supporting the instrument on his little finger tip by means
of a stringI had tied round the handle.
Serjt. Cox held a flower under the table with the request that it
might be taken and given to a lady. It was soon taken from his hand, and
after a considerable time, when the circumstance was almost forgotten,
a white object was laid on the edge of the table, between Miss Bird and
Mr. Wr. Crookea, and shE! said her dress was pulled very much. As the
object moved about it was seen to be Serjt. Cox's flower. The message
then came:-
"We gave it you. A flower."
Mr. Home then went into a trance, .poke a little to Mrs. Wr. Crookes in
a low tone, and then got up. He walked about the room in an undecided
sort of way, but finally sat down again, saying it all felt confused, and then
woke.
A message was then given :-
" Hands oft'the table."
Weaccordingly removed our hands and joined hands all round. In aminute
a alight movement of my note-book was heard, and I could see that a volume
(Incidents in my Life), which waa resting on the leaves to keep them down,
was gradually sliding over it in jerks about an eigJath of an inch at a time.
The motion was visible toall present and the noise was alao plainly heard by
everyone. Nothing more than this took place, and we soon had the
message:-
II We find we have no more power."
The meeting then broke up.
During the latter part of the evening Mra. Wm. Crookes, who was sitting
near Mr. Home, felt her hands and arm constantly touched and stroked, and
the form of fingers was for some time moving about under the cloth close to
Iter. These were felt by myself and Miss A. Crookes, and our hands were
patted by them at our request. Mrs. Wm. Crookes also saw a delicate
finger and thumb playing about a rose in Mr. Home's coat and plucking the
petals one at a time and laying lOme on the table by her side and giving
others to Mrs. Wr. Crookes. Three times she saw an entire hand rise up
and pSll quite over her own hands, which were on the table. It was .mall,
plump, and delicately shaped, ending at the wrist in a cloud.
At another time luminous appearances were seen on Mr. Home's head
and before his face. All present saw 10 much, and Mra. Wm. Crookes said
they were hands.
(VII.) SUNDAY, JULY 16th, 1871.-Sitting at 20, Momington-road.
Prueut:-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mra. Wr. Crookes, Mr. Wr.
Crookes, Mrs. Hu~phrey, :Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mra. Wm. Crookea.
Digitized by Google
Nofes of sw,'nCe8 'With D. D. Home.
In the following order :-
M~ WI! C.
M'!.P.C.
M'!~----4---~~~~~--~M'!HOME
M.,WIJI C.
\.
9 12
115
7-Is a bouquet of Howers which my wife and I had brought from
Brook Green this evening. They had been given to the servant to arrange,
and were brought into the room and put on the table alter we had all aat
down and the Hance had commenced.
8-ls the part of the crack in the table subsequently referred to.
9-Is the wooden wand. 100Is a sheet of note-paper. ll-Is a
pencil.
At the first part of the Hance the phonautograph 1 was on the table in
front of Mr. Home, and I aat or stood at position 12.
On this occasion I asked for the spirits not to rap on the membrane, but
to p~ on it as in the experiment to make the board light and heavy.
This was accordingly done, anellO tracings of curves were taken on the
smoked glaas :-
No. I.-Mr. Home's hand on edge of drum.
No.2. ! Mn. Wr. Crookes's fingers on edge of drum, and Mr. Home's
No.3. 1hands touching hers.
No. 4.-Mr. Home's fingers on edge of drum.
No. 5.-Mr. Home's fingers on support not touching tho drum.
No. 6.-Mr. Home's fingers touching the membrane. On looking at this
I remarked that this curve might have been produced by pressure of the
fingers. The message was then given :-
.. Hands off table."
No. 7.-Mr. Home's hands on the table, no one else touching it.
No. S.-Mr. Home's hand held over the parchment, fingers pointing
downwards quite still.
No. 9.-The aame as No. S.
No. IO.-Mr. Home's fingers touching stand; not touching the drum or
parchment.
After taking these tracings the phonautograph was removed, and we BBt
down quietly in the positions shown on diagram. The room was sufficiently
1 For a deacription of the "phonautograph _ Quarlmv Jounuu oj &icnee for
October, l87L •
I 2
Digitized by Google
116 Notes of Seances with D. D. Home.
lighted by means of two spirit lamps with soda flames placed on the top of
" the gaselier.
After a few minutes the wooden wand moved a little on tho table, gently
sliding along. It then raised itself up at one end and then fell down again.
Next it lifted up sideways and turned half over. It continued moving about
ill this mannor for several minutes. Mr. Home aaid he saw a hand over the
lath moving it about. No one else saw the hand.
/ The 1I.0wers in the bouquet were moved and rustled about several times.
A message was then given, the answers being sometimes given by raps
011 the table and sometimes by the wand rising up and striking the table
three times in rapid succession :-
"A prayer."
Mr. Home took the accordion in the usual manner and we then were
favoured with the most beautiful piece of music I ever heard. It was very
solemn and was executed perfectly : the ., fingering" of the notes was
finer than anything I could imagine. During this piece, which lasted for
about 10 minutes, we heard a man's rich voicel accompanying it in one comer
of tho room, and a bird whistling and chirping.
Mr. Home then held his hand over the bouquet and shook it (his hand)
with a rapid quivering movement.
I asked if the pencil would be taken and a word written on the paper
before our eyes. The pencil was moved and lifted up two or three times, but
it fell down again. The lath moved up to the pencil and seemed trying to
help it, but it was of no use.
A message was given :-
" It is impOBBible for matter to pS88 through matter; but we will show
you what we can do."
We waited in silence. Presently Mrs. Wm. Crookes aaid she saw a
luminous appearance over the bouquet. Mr. Wr. Crookes said he saw the
same, and Mr. Home said he saw a hand moving about.
A piece of ornamental grass about 15 inches long here moved out of the
bouquet, and was seen to slowly disappear just in front at the position (8) on
the plan,as if it were pS88ing through the table.
Immediately after it had disappeared through the table Mrs; Wm. Crookes
saw a hand appear from beneath the table, between her and Mr. Home,
holding the piece of grass. It brought it up to her shoulder, tapped it against
her two or three times with a noise audible to all, and then took the graaa
down on to the floor, where"the hand disappeared. Only Mrs. Wm. Crookea
and Mr. Home saw the hand; but we all saw the movements of the piece of
graaa, which were as I have described.
It was then told us that the grass had been paaeed through the division in
the table. On measuring the diameter of this division I found it to be barely
ith inch, and the piece of graaa was far too thick to enable me to force it
1 See inoident on p. 122.
Digitized by Goo~
Note8 of Seances with D. D. Horne. 117
through without injuring it. Yet it passed through the chink very quietly
and smoothly and did not show the least signs of pressure.
The message was then given by notes on the accordion :-
"God blessyou. Good night."
A parting tune was then played on the accordion, and the sMnce then
broke up at half-past 11.
(VllI.) SUNDAY, JULY 30th, 1871. Sitting at 20, Mornington-road.
Pruent :-Mr. D. D. Home, Mr. Wm. Orookes, Mrs. Wm. Orookes,
Mrs. Humphrey, Mr. Wr. Orookes, Mrs. Wr. Orookes, Mrs. I., Miss A.
Crookes, Mr. H. Crookes, Mr. T., and at 11 p.m. Lord A.
In the dining-room round the dining-table.
During the former part of the evening the gas was lighted; during the
latter part the room was illuminated by two spirit lamps.
The first experiment tried was the alteration of the weight of the board
by means of the improved apparatus, by which the movements are registered
on smoked glasa. In order to meet Mr. G. 's objection the short end of
the board was firmly supported on a foot (A) in such a manner that no amount
B
I" Q
of pressure of the hands at (B) produced any appreciable movement of the
long end. The adjustments were made and well tested by myself before Mr.
Home entered the room.
I took Mr. Home's two hands and placed them myself in the proper
position on the board, the tips of his fingers being (at B) just half-way from
the extremity to the fulcrum. Mrs. Wm. Orookes, who was sitting next to
Mr. Home, and by the side of the apparatus, watched his hands the whole
time, and I also watched him whilst the plate of glasa was moving. Six plates
were tried and good results obtained. The experiments were not tried
directly oneafter the other, but when all was ready Mr. Home generally
told me when to set the clock going, saying that he felt an influence on the
instrument or that he saw a spirit standing near. On one or two occasions
loud raps were heard on the board, and the signal to set the clock going was
given at my request by three raps. The board sometimes swayed sideways
88 well as vertically.
During the progress of one of these experiments the chair in which I
had been sitting, which was standing near the apparatus, was seen to move
up close to the table.
The register of the index showed a maximum pull of 21b.
Digitized by Google
118 Note8 of Seances with D. D. Home.
The apparatus WIUI removed, and we took our aeats round the table in the
following poeitioDl :-
.,' I. MIP. C.
MIJ H.C. M"WI! C.
Mlss.A.e. MID.D.HOIE.
L~A, M~W!C. M~r.
(......
CA.II'
lLP.V.}
Raps occurred in dift'erent parts of the table when I placed my handa
there. Raps were then given on the wooden lath when Mr. Home had
hold of one end.
The accordion WIUI held by Mr. Home in the usual position under the
table. Whilst it played Mrs. I. looked beneath and saw it playing. Mr.
Home removed hiB hand altogether from it, and held both handa above the
table. During this Mrs. I. said ahe saw a luminous hand playing the
accordion.
The gas was now turned out, and three spirit lamps were lighted.
Loud raps were heard, and the planchette moved aero.. a sheet of paper,
leaving a mark with the pencil.
The lath moved some inches.
The accordion, which had been left by Mr. Home under the table, now
began to play.and move about without anyone touching it. It dropped
on to my foot, then dragged itself away, playing all the time, and went to
Mrs. I. It got on to her knees.
Mr. Home then took it in hiB hand, where it played, and delivered the
following meBBBge by chorda in the ullual way:-
" Our joy and thankfulneaa to have been allowed to make our presence
manifest. We thank you for your patience and we thank GOD for His
love."
Mr. Home got up and stood behind in full view of all, holding the
accordion out at arm's length. We all saw it expanding and contracting and
heard it playing a melody. Mr. Home then let go of the accordion, which
went behind his back and there continued to play; hiB feet being visible
and also his two handa, which were in front of him.
Digitized by Google
Notes of Seances with D. D. Home. 119
Mr. Home then walked to the open apace in the room between Mrs. I.'a
chair and the sideboard and atood there quite upright and quiet. He then
said, "I'm rising, I'm rising" ; when we all I&W him rise from the ground
alowly to a height of about six inches, remain there for about 10 aeconda, and
then alowly descend. From my position I could not see hie feet. but I
distinctly saw hie head, projected against the opposite wall, rise up, and Mr.
Wr. Crookea, who was Bitting near where Mr. Home was, said that hie feet c..
were in the air. There was no atool or other thing near which could have
aided him. Moreover, the movemtlDt was a smooth continuoU8 glide upwards.
Whilat thie was going on we heard the accordion fall heavily to the
ground. It had been auspended in the air behind the chair where Mr. Home
had been aitting. When it fen Mr. Itome was about 10ft. from it.
Mr. Home Btill atanding behind Mrs. I. and Mr. Wr. Crookea, the
accordion was both seen and heard to move about behind him without hia
~da touching it. It then played a tune without contact and floating in the/'
IUI'.
Mr. Home then took the accordion in one hand and held it out 80 that we
could all see it (he was atill atanding up behind Mrs. I. and Mr. Wr. Orookes).
We then saw the accordion expand and contract and heard a tune played.
Mrs. Wm. Orookea and Mr. Home saw a light on the lower part of the
. accordion, where the keya were, and we then heard and saw the keys
clicked and depressed one after the other fairly and deliberately, as if to
show U8 that the power doing it, although invisible (or nearly so) to U8, had
full control over the instrument.
A beautiful tune was then played whilst Mr. Home was atanding up
holding the accordion out· in full view of everyone.
Mr. Home then came round behind me and telling me to hold my left
arm out placed the accordion under my arm, the keys hanging down and the
npper part preBBing upwardsagainst my upper arm. He then left go and the
accordion remained there. He then placed hie two handa one on each of my
ahoulders. In this position, no one touching the accordion but myself, and
every one noticing what was taking place, the instrument played notes but
notune.
Mr. Home then sat down in hie chair, and we were told by rape to open
the table about an inch or an inch and a-half.
Mr. T. touched the point of the lath, when rape immediately came on it.
The planchette, which was on the table resting on a aheet of peper, now
moved a few inchee.
Sounds were heard on the accordion, which was on the floor, not held by
Mr. Home.
The comer of the paper next to Mrs. Wm. Orookee (on which the plan-
chette was standing) moved up and down. (Theae three last phenomena were
going on aimult&neoualy.) .
I felt 80mething touch my knee; it then went to Mrs. I., then to Mias
A. Crookea.
Whilst this was going on I held the ben under the table, and it was taken
from me and rung round beneath. It was then given to Mrs. I. by a hand
which she described as 80ft and warm.
The lath was now seen to move about a little.
Digitized by Google
120 Notes oj Seances with D. D. HO'TM.
Mrs. Wm. Crookes saw a hand and fingers touching the flower in Mr.
Home's button-hole. The flower was then taken by the hand and given to
Mrs. I. and the green leaf was in a similar manner given to Mr. T.
Mrs. Wm. Crookes and Mr. Home saw the hand doing this, the others
only saw the flower and leaf moving through the air.
Mrs. Wm. Crookes held a rose below the table; it was touched and then
taken.
/ The sound as of a drum was heard on the accordion.
The lath lifted itself up on ita edge,thenreared itself uponone end andfeU
down. It then floated up four inches above the table, and moved quite
round the circle, pointing to Mrs. Wm. Crookes. It then rose up and passed
\" over our heads outside the circle.
" The planchette moved about a good deal, marking the paper.
The cloth was dragged along the table.
Whilst the lath was moving round the circle, the accordion played a tune
in Mr. Home's hand whilst Mrs. Wm. Crookes's hand was also on it.
Mrs. Wm. Crookes put her hand ntl&l' the lath, when it came up to
it, and moved about it very much.
The paper on which the planchette was resting moved about us as if by a
hand. Many present saw a hand doing it. (Mr. Home and Mrs. Wm.
Crookes saw this hand.)
Mr. H. Crookes saw a luminous hand come up between Mr. Home and
Mrs. Wm. Crookes.
Some time during the evening Mrs. Wm. Crookea's handkerchief, which
had been in her pocket, was taken out of it by a hand.
I saw something white moving about in the further comer of the room
(diagonal to door) under a chair. On my remarking this, a message was
given by raps ;-
"William! take it."
On getting up and taking it I saw that it was my wife's pocket handker-
chief tied in a knot, and having the stalk of the rose which had been taken
from her tied up in it. The place where I picked up the handkerchief
was fifteen feet from where she had been sitting.
A glass water bottle which was on the table now floated up and rapped
against the planchette.
Mr. Home said; "I see a face. I see Philip's face. Philip! Brother!"
The water and tumbler now rose up together, and we had answers to
questions by their tapping together whilst floating in the air about eight
inches above the table, and moving backwards and forwards from one to the
other of the circle.
Mr. H. Crookes said a hand was tickling his knee.
A finger was protruded uP. the opening of the table between Miss A.
Crookes and the water bottle. .
Miss A. Crookes, Mr. H. Crookea, and Mrs. I. were then touched.
Fingers came up the opening of the table a second time and waved about.
The lath, which on its last excursion had settled in front of the further
window, quite away from the circle, now moved along the floor four or five
times very noisily. I~ then came up to Mr. T., and passed into the circle
Digitized by Google
Notes oj Seances with D. D. Horne. 121
over his shoulder. It settled on the table and then role up again, pointing
to Mrs. Wm. Crookllll's mouth.
The lath then went to the water bottle and pushed it Beveral times nearly
over, to move it away from the opening in the table. The lath then went
endways down the opening.
The tumbler moved about a little.
The lath moved up through the opening in the table and answered"Yes"
and "No" to questions, by bobbing up and down three times or once.
A hand was Been by some, and a luminous cloud by others, pulling the
flowers about which were in a stand on the table. A flower was then Been to
be carried deliberately and given to Mrs. Wr. Crookea.
Another flower was taken by the hand and brought over to Mrs. Wm.
Crookea j it was dropped between her and Mr. Home.
Raps then said :-
"We must go."
The raps then commenced loudly allover the room and got fainter and
fainter until they became inaudible.
The _nce then broke up.
(1X.) SATURDAY, NOVBMBBR 25th, 1871.-Sitting at 20, Mornington-
road. From 9.15 p.m. to 11.30 p.m.
Pruent :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mrs. Home, Mias Douglas, Mrs.
Humphrey, Mr. andMrs. Wm. Crookea, Mrs. Wr. Crookea, Mias Crookllll,
Mr. C. Gimingham.
In the dining-room round the dining-table; no leAf in.
M'.!IelC. M'.!I!HOME
MISS.A.C. .".fC.
• 'D.D.HOME
MISI.D.
M"WIPC.
M"H. M'W~C.
On the table were two glautroughs of flowers ; accordion ; paper; plan-
chette; some marked pieces of paper; pencilB; handbell; spirit lamps ;
matches, &C. A cloth was on. The lath was on the table.
There was a good fire in the room, which, however, got low t.owarda the
end of the sitting, and a gas light was burning during the greater part of the
time. When that was put out there was still light enough in the room from
the fire and the street to enable us to distinguish each other, and see the
objects on the table.
Digitized by Google
122 Nola of Seances with D. D. Home.
We had IIC&lCely sat down a minute when raps were heard from di1rerent
parts of the table j a strong vibration of our chairs and the table was felt,
and sounds like thumps on the door were heard. A curious metallic tapping
sound was heard on the iron screw of the table.
A message :-" &J.,ftsh," in reply to a remark I made.
A rustling was heard on the table, and one of the glass dower trougha was
seen to move along by jerks, till it had travelled about two inches and had
got a little on to a large sheet of paper. This movement continued whilst all
were watching it. Mr. Home's hands were quiet in front of him.
The wooden lath was then seen to slide an inch or so backwards and
forwards.
Mr. Home took the accordion in the usual manner, holding it under the
table. It immediately began to sound. Mr. Home then brought it from
under the table (he said it appeared to move of its own accord, dragging his
hand after it), playing all the time, and at last held it hanging down at the
back of his chair in a v~ry constrained attitude, his feet being under the
table and his other hand on the table. In this position the instrument
played chords and separate notes, but not any definite tune. The sounds on
it became louder and the table began to vibrate j this got stronger and
stronger until the noise of the accordion playing simple chords was very
great, whilst the table actually jumped up and down keeping accurate time
with the musio. This became so violent that it might have been heard all
over the house. It ceased suddenly and in a minute recommenced.
Miss Douglas said: "Dear spirits, how pleased you would have been
had you lived to witneas the progreas Spiritualism is now making." Imme-
diately a message was given in reply :-
"We are not dead I"
Mr. Home brought the accordion back to under the table,when it sounded
notes again. There was a sound &It of a man's bass voice1 accompanying it.
On mentioning thia, one note, "No," was given, and the musical bar re-
peated several times slowly, till we found out that it was caused by a peculiar
discord played on a bass note. On finding this out the instrument burst out
with its usual jubilant bar.
Miss Douglas saying that she felt touched, I asked if we might get some
direct writing. Two raps were given. I asked Miss Douglas to put the
marked sheets of paper and pencil under the table by her feet, and requested
that something might be written on it.
Three raps.
The power now seemed to go to the lath j it was lifted up several times
at alternate ends to a height of several inches and then doated quite above
the table.
The planchette moved irregularly along the paper, making a mark with
the pencil.
Some of those who were preaent said they saw a luminous hand touching
the paper. I saw the paper raised up at the side away from Mr. Home.
I felt touched strongly on the knee by something feeling like fingers. On
1 See incident on p. 116.
Digitized by Goo~
Notes of S6atnces with ],). D. Home. 123
putting my band down a sheet of paper was put into it. I said, "Is any-
thing written on it1"
"Yea."
. It being too dark to see what was written, I asked that it might be
told me by rape, and on repeating the alphabet I got the following :-
" Rctojdourdanie."
On striking a lighh GIle following was seen neatly written:-
R. O. toJ. D.
Our Daniel.
Miss Douglas said the R. O. was Robert Ohambers, whilst J. D. were the
initials of her own name.
As the paper was a sheet I had marked and it was free from any writing
when put under the table, whilst no one had moved from the table in the
meantime, this was as striking a manifestation as I had ever seen.
Mrs. Home,who for some time past had said a bandwas holding her band,
now said that the band was under her dress. Each of us in turn went round
and felt it. To me it felt very small and I could not distinguish any form
which I could be certain was a band. Mrs. Wm. Orookea, who went next,
said it was at fint very small but it seemed to grow large as she felt it until
it was exactly like a large band, the knuckles and fingers being very distinct.
The band remained with Mrs. Home for half an hour at least. On asking for /'
the name of the band which had held hers, the name
.. Alexandrine "
was spelt out.
A BOund like the snapping of fingers was heard. On speaking of this it
was repeated at our request in different parte of the room.
The wooden lath which was lying just in front of me appeared to move
slightly, whereupon I leaned forward and watched it intently. It rose up
about half an inch, then sank down, and afterwards turned up on one end
till it was upright, and then descended on the other side till it touched one
of Mr. Home's hands. One end remained all the time on the table whilst
the other end described a semicircle. The movement was very deliberate.
The lath then moved away from Mr. Home's bands and laid itself across the
planchette. Both it and the planchette moved slightly. The lath then moved
off and stood quite upright on the table. It then slowly descended.
The aocordion, which had been for BOme time quiet under the table, now
was heard to BOund and move about. Presently Miss Douglas felt it come
to her and push against her knees.
The window curtains at the end of the room furthest from the door, and
seven feet from where Mr. Home was sitting, were seen to move about.
They opened in the centre for a space of about a foot, exactly as if a man had
divided them with his hands. Mr. Home said he saw a dark form standing
in front of the window moving the curtains, and Mrs. Wm. Crookes and
Mr. O. Gimingham also said they saw a shadow of a form. The form was
then seen to go behind one curtain and move it outwards into the room for
a distance of about 18 inches. This was repeated several times.
The wooden lath now rose from the table and rested one end on my
knuckles, the other end being on the table. It then rose up and tapped DIe
Digitized by Google
124 Notu of Seances with D. D. Home.
several times. Questions which I put were answered "Yes" or" No," in
this manner. I said, "Do you know the Morse alphabet7" "Yes."
" Oould you give me a message by it 7" "Yes." As soon as this was
rapped out the lath commenced rapping my knuckles in long and shorttaps,
in a manner exactly resembling a " Morse" message. Myknowledge ofthe
code and of reading by sound is not sufficient to enable me to say positively
that it was a message; but it BOunded exactly like one; the long and short
taps and the pauses were exactly Rimilar, and Mr. O. Gimingham, who has
had practice with the Morse code, feels almost certain that it was BO.
Afterwards at my request the Morse alphabet was given distinctly by taps
on the table. During this time Mrs. Wm. Orookes was standing on the other
side of the table by Mrs. Home. Her chair between me and Mr. Home
was empty and I could see Mr. Home's hands resting quietly on the table
in front of him.
Mr. Home went into a trance, and addressed several of us in turn.
The ~ce ended at about 11.30 p.m.
(X.) TuEsD,A.Y, ApRIL 16th, 1872.-Sitting at 20, Mornington-road.
From 8.50 p.m.
Pt"6llefl,t:-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mr. Serjt. Oox, Mr. and Mrs.
Wm. Crookes, Mr. and Mrs. Wr. Orookes, Mrs. Humphrey, Mr. F. G., in
the following order :-
M"-C.
MIJWISC. M"nc.
SERC'!C It'D.D.HOIE.
MIJ W¥ C.
On the table were flowers, an accordion, a lath, a bell, paper, and
pencils.
Phenomena.-Oreaks were heard, followed by a trembling of the table
and chairs.
The table gently moved from Mr. Wr. Orookes to Mr. Home.
Raps were heard on different parta of the table.
Mr. F. G. was under the table when the movements were going on.
There was vibration and knocks on the floor. The table moved six inches
from Mr. F. G. to me; and there was a strong trembling of the table.
A shower of loud ticks by Mr. F. G. was heard, and thumps as of a foot
on the floor.
The table trembled twice at Mr. F. G.'s request; then twice and a third
time after an interval. This was done several times.
Digitized by Google
Note8 of Seances with D. D. Home. 125
The table becamelight and heavy. Mr. F. G. tested it, and there was
no mistake.
There were 8trong movementa of the table when Mr. F. G. was under it.
Mr. Home'8 chair moved back aix inches.
The accordion was taken by Mr. Home in the usual manner and BOunded.
Mr. F. G. looked under, whilat it was expanding and contracting.
We were speaking of the music, when amesaage was given :-
" It comes from the heart. A hymn of praise."
After which beautiful sacred music was played.
The bell was taken from Mrs. Wm. Crooke8, and tinkled under the table
for BOme ~ime. It was thrown down close to Mr. F. G., who took it.
The accordion laid down und~r the table by Serjt. Cox and played a few
notes, when all hands were on the table. Mrs. Wm. Crookes put her feet on
Mr. Home's. A big hand pushed Mrs. Wm. Crookes'8 feet away. The
accordion played and then pushed into Mr. F. G.'8 hand. Mr. F. G. held it
for some time, but there was no 80und, and it was given to Mr. Home.
Mrs. Wr. Crookes'8 dreaa was pulled round, while Mr. F. G. was looking
on. Mrs. Wr. Crookes put her feet touching Mr. F. G.'8.
The accordion played in Mr. Home'8 hands. He said he felt a touch, on
which there were five raps, and a mesaage came :-
"We did."
"The Last Rose of Summer" was played exquisitely. Mr. Home then put
the accordion down. There was quietneaa for a minute, followed by move-
ments of the table, and a measage was given :-
"We have no more power."
(XL) SUNDAY, APRIL 21st, 1872.-Sitting at 24, Motcombe-8treet. The
residence of my brother, Mr. Walter Crookes.
Prumt :-Mr. D. D. Home (medium), Mrs. Douglas, Capt. C., Mr. and
Mrs. Wm. Crookes, Mr. and Mrs. Wr. Crookes.
In the drawing-room, round the centre table.
M., W., C.
----
MI! D.D.HOME.
MI!W'!C.
Phenomena :-8trong vibratiOns of the cabinet behind Mr. Home: con·
Digitized by Google
126 Notes of SianceB with D. D. Home.
tinuous rape on the table: very strong vibrations of the cabinet. Then a
long silence. Mr. Home went to the piano.
On his return the vibrations recommenced; then there were powerful
raps on the table in front of me.
There were thumps on the table and then on the floor.
I waa touched on the knee.
I was touched again on the knee. The table then rattled about 80
violently that I could not write.
Mr. Home took the accordion in the UI1lI\l manner. It played a tune.
Mrs. Douglas's handkerchief was taken from her lap by a hand visible to
her and Mr. Home, the accordion playing beautifully all the time. A
meBB&ge was given :-
.. Try 1881 light."
The handkerchief moved about along the floor, visible t~ all.
/ ' Mr. Home nearly disappeared under the table in a curious attitude, then
/ he'was (still in hiB chair) wheeled out from under the table still in the same
. attitude, his feet out in front off the ground. He was then Bitting almost
horizontally, hiB shoulders resting on hiB chair.
He asked Mrs. Wr. Crookes to remove the chair from under him as it
was not supporting him. He was then seen to be sitting in the air sup-
ported by nothing visible.
1/ Then Mr. Home rested the extreme top of his head on a chair, and his
feet on the sofa. He said he felt supported in the middle very comfortably.
The chair then moved away of its own accord, and Mr. Home rested flat over
the floor behind Mrs. Wr. Crook&S.
A stool then moved up from behind Mrs. Wr. Crookes to between her
and Mr. Home.
Mr. Home then got up, and after walking about the room went to a large
glass screen and brought it cloee up to me, and opened it out thus :-
~ D.D.H /
w. c.
TA BLE
Mr. Home then put his handa on the screen, and we had raps on the
glaas. (The gas was turned brightly up during theee experiments.)
Digitized by Google
Notes of Seances with "D. D. Home. 127
Then Mr. Bome put his hand on one leaf of the lICl'een. and I put my
hand where I chose on the other leaf. Raps came from under my hand.
The screen W88 then put thus :-
\ D.D.H. /
TABLE
Mr. Home stood behind the screen and had the gas light shining full on
him. He rested his two hands lightly on the top of the centre leaf of the
screen. In this position we had the table cloth moved, raps on the table in
front of the screen, and raps on the glass leaves (either one at request). A
lady's dress was pulled, and the chairs were shaken.
The screen W88 then folded up and laid horizontally on two chairs, so ..
to form a glasa table. Mr. Home sat at one aide and I sat at the other aide,
by ourselves. The light was l"ery good, and the whole of his legs and feet
were eaaily aeen through the screen.
Many experiments were then tried on this glass table. Raps came from
it at my request where I desired. It was vibrated ; and once raps came when
Mr. Home was not touching it.
The light was then lowered and the screen put aside.
The cushion from the sofa floated off it and came between Mr. Home and
Mrs. Wr.Orookes.
Mr. Home took the accordion, and it played " Auld Lang Syne."
Someone was seen standing behind Mrs. Wm. Crookes.
Mrs. Wm. Crookes had severe pain in her head. Mr. Home came behind
her and mesmerised her, and the pain went.
A meuilge came to Mrs. Wr. Crookes.
Nothing more took place after this.
Digitized by Google
128 Experiments in Th01J1Jht-Transjerence.
VII.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE,
By PROFESSOR AND .Mas. H. SIDGWICK, AND MR. G. A. SMITH.
The experiments in thought-transference about to be described have
been carried out with four different percipients while in the hypnotic
trance, Mr. Smith, who hypnotised them, being the agent. The
experiments were usually directed and arranged by Mrs. Sidgwick, who
also took the notes which form the basis of the present paper. On two
or three occasions, however, she was absent and her place was taken
by Professor Sidgwick, who was also present on most other occasions
in July and August.
Most of the experiments were in the transference of numbers of
two digits, Mr. Smith looking at the numbers and the percipient
guessing them. The number of experiments of this nature tried with
Mr. Smith in the same room as the percipient was 644, of which
131 were successes; and the number tried with Mr. Smith in another
room was 228, of which only 9 were successes. In these numbers an
experiment in which two percipients were at work at the same time is
counted as two. By a success we mean that both digits are correctly
given, but not necessarily placed in the right order. Of the 131
successes with Mr. Smith in the same room the digits were reversed in
14; and of the 9 successes with Mr. Smith in a different room the digits
were reversed in 1. We had no numbers above 90 among those we
used. If the percipients had been aware of this the probability of their
guessing the right digits in the right order in one trial by pure chance
would have been 1 to 81, and the probability of their guessing the right
digits in any order half that. But, as· at different times they guessed
all the numbers between 90 and 100,we believe that they were not aware
that our series stopped at 90, in which case their chance of being right
in a single guess was 1 to 90. No one will suppose therefore that 117
complete successes in 664 guesses was the result of chance. Good days
and bad days alike are included in the numbers given, though, as will
be seen in the sequel, on some days no success at all was obtained. It
was clear that the power of divining the numbers was exceedingly vari-
able, but whether the difference was in the agent or the percipient or on
what circumstances it depended we have so far been unable to discover.
Eight persons, at least, besides Mr. Smith, tried to act as agents,
but either failed to hypnotise the percipientll, or to transfer any impres-
Digitized by Google
Eaperiments in Thought-Transference. 129
sion. Nor did others succeed in transferring impressions when the
hypnotic state had been induced by Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith himself
did not succeed except when the percipients were hypnotised.
We shall give in full the account, written at the time, of the first
day's experiments with each of the percipients-not because these
experiments are the most conclusive, or were carried out under the best
conditions, but because they give perhaps more insight than others
into the impressions of the percipients, who were more lively and
interested in the matter while it was new to them. We do not profess
to give every remark made; Mrs. Sidgwick had not time to take down
all that was said, but she believes that she recorded all that was
important.
The first subject with whom any success was obtained was a Mr.
W., a clerk in a shop, aged probably about twenty-one or twenty-
two. Mr. Smith had hypnotised him on three previous occasions,
twice in public and once in private, but. had not tried thought-
transference experiments with him before. The last occasion on
which he had been hypnotised was on June 13th, 1889, on which
occasion we had tried experiments of a different kind with him.
He is a very sensitive hypnotic subject, but to all appearance
a normal and healthy young man, somewhat athletic. Between June
13th and July 4th thought-transference was attempted with several
subjects in vain. On July 4th Mr. W. came to Mr. Smith's house
again, and after some other experiments, it was for the first time
tried with him. First we tried him in guessing colours, pieces of
coloured paper gummed on to cards being used. Mr. W.'s eyes were
apparently closed; Mr. Smith sat in front of him, facing him and
holding the card up with its back to him. We feel practically certain
that Mr. W. could not see the colour normally. After each guess Mr.
Smith said, U Now we'll do another," whether the colour was changed
or not.
The following series was obtained :-
JlBAL COLOUB.
Orange
Same ...
Same ...
Same colour, but another shape...
Emerald Green
BlaCk...
Red ...
Blue ...
Orange
BrowD
liB. w.'s au_a .t.IQ) BBIlABXL
C'Red."
"Red."
.. Red, they're all red."
" The same."
.. Pretty nearly the same."
.. Same colour-red."
" Same. They're all alike."
"That one's different-a kind of
blue."
"About the same red colour as
you had before.·'
"You had that colour just now-
that blue."
K
Digitized by Google
130 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
BBAL COLOUa.
Black...
Emerald Green
Red ...
Yellow
Ka. w.o. OUBSSES AND BBJlAllKS.
II Same as last-blne."
"Haven't seen that one before-
sort of green."
II An old colour-one of those red
on88."
" Bluified."
Up to the seventh attempt it appeared as though he were simply
describing the red light through his closed eyelids, but after that
there ROOmed to be some success, and we were encouraged to try
further. We determined to try numbers. Mr. Smith sat in the same
position as before and Mrs. Sidgwick wrote numbers on cards and
handed them to him.
I'IUJIBBB LOOKBD AT.
7
4
3
... w:. OUESSES AND BBJlABKlI.
" 6 n
"....
"9"
At this point Mr. W. was told that there would be two figures
and the numbers belonging to a "sixty" puzzle were used, and drawn
at random so as to avoid bias.
15
24
11
20
"16"
"24"
" That's got only one figure, 1."
"20 "
Mr. Smith now moved to a place behind Mr.W.'s chair, and for still
further precaution against the posaibility of Mr. W. seeing anything,
the number was-after the first minute or two of the first experiment
that follows (which took a long time)-placed in a match-box held in
the palm of Mr. Smith's hand. We give remarks made by Mr. Smith
as well as Mr. W.
7 S.:" Do you see this
figure! "
18
23
w. : "I hardly see it." " It's not
onefigure I can see." .. It
looks like 6."
"18"
"18 "
After this numbers taken out of a pile of them written on scraps
of card were used.
24
37 S.: I"Do you see this! ..
S. : "Yas. Do you see
any more!"
82 S.:" Now then, Mr. W.,
here's another one."
S. : "Here it is."
"24"
w. : "Where!" (PaUBe.) "I see
him now-a 3."
w.: "No."
W.: "Where!"
W. dropped off into a deeper state.
Digitized by Google
Experiment8 -
in TlLought-Transfe?·ence.131
NUIIBU LOOKED ~T.
S. ; "Mr. W., don't go to
sleep"(rousedhiru).
S.; "Which figure looks
most distinct! "
S.; " Yes. Then look
again at the other.
AreyouIlUreit'sa1!"
S.; .. Well, then, what's
the number! "
KR. wo'S OUB8SBS ~SD IlEIIUKI.
w. ; .. 12, isn't it!"
W.; "The 2, I think."
W.; "I can't eee." (Pause.) .. I
think it's a 3."
,v. ;..Why, it's 82."
Then after a moment or two he suddenly awoke of himself. It was
interesting to watch the gesture and look of intelligence with which he
said" Oh I see it," when he realised the number--sometimes almost
instantly. Mr. W. promised to return on another day but did not do
so, and we have had no further opportunity of experimenting with
him.l
As will be perceived the above experiments were improvised, and
we were not provided with suitable numbers. Before the next
attempt we procured a bag full of numbers belonging to a game of
Loto, and drew the numbers out of the bag. The bag contained all
the double numbers up to 90. The numbers were stamped in raised
figures on little round wooden blocks and were coloured red-the sur-
rounding wood being uncoloured. We give facsimiles as to form of some
of these blocks, so that our readers may have what means there are of
judging whether it was the image of the number or the idea of it in
Mr. Smith's mind that was effective. We may remark here that Mr.
Smith believes himself to have the power of vivid visualisation.
On July 5th, Mr. T., a clerk in the telegraph office, came to be
hypnotised. He is a young man aged about 19, who has been very
frequently hypnotised by Mr. Smith, and with whom many of Mr.
Gurney's experiments described in Proceedings, Y01. Y., were tried.
We had tried some thought-transference experiments of a different
kind with him in the winter and spring-Mr. Smith silently willing
him to hear or not to hear certain sounds or questions addressed to
1 He wrote the following poet·card:-
.. DUB SIR,-Having coDsidered the matter over, I came to the conclusion that
this mesmerism d088 me no good (although it may do me no harm), and also it is no
interest nor benefit to me, but rather to you all, 8Othert'fore you will not expect to _
me this evening."
1( 2
Digitized byCoogle
132 Experiments in Thought-Tmnsference.
himl-but the success of these was not very marked, and they are not
experiments of which it is very easy to estimate the value unless they
succeed every time. We think it hardly worth while giving any detail
a.bout them here.
On July 5th, after some experiments of another nature, we tried a
series of 31 guesses of numbers of two digits drawn from the Loto bag,
above described. They were drawn out by Mr. Smith between his finger
and thumb, which effectually concealed the figures, and placed in a little
box, about an inch deep, which he held in his hand with its back to
T. T.'s eyes were apparently closed, and he kept his head very still,
and we ascertained by experiment that he would have had to move it
several feet to see the number. The impression sometimes came to bim
quickly, and sometimes slowly-as the remarks recorded show. He
was only told that he was to see numbers of two figures.
NUIlBBR DRAWN.
61
84
47
32
80
21
18
56
59
37
61
33
40
21
NUMBER GUESSED AND REMARKS.
T. : "26.
T.: "A 3 and a 2, I believe-32."
T. : "Is it O!~ 2 ; it can't be that!"
T.: "Looks like l-can't see the first figure-I
think it'!! a 6-61."
T. : "11, i8n'~ it! two ones." S.:" Have a good
look." T.:" 11."
T. : "Seems like 2; 25, is it! "
T. : .. I believe it is 1 and 0."
T. : "Can't see anything." S.: "You'll see it in a
minute." T.: "There's a 6, and, I believe,
a 2-26, I think."
T.: .. No" (meaning that he saw nothing).
S.: "You'll see it in a minute." T. : "No,
can't see it • • . Believe it is 14."
T.: .. I see 11.3; there are three of them-147."
T.: "That's 61. I think."
T.: II No, I can't see-can't see that." S.: "Wait
a minute." (Pause.) "Do you see them
now!" T.: "No, I can't." (A long pause.)
T.: "A funny thing that is-a mixture.
5, 8-looks like a 3 or an 8-3. I think."
T.: "4, 0, I think."
T.: "Is it 2!" S.: "Well!" T.: "2,3. I
think." S.:" Sure about the 3!"
T.: "Yes." (After a pause, the number
having been meanwhile put back in the
bag.) .. Oh, yes," as if he got surer and
Burer.
I For a full description of other experiments of this kind _ Pf'ocudifl(l' Vol. I.
p. 256, Vol. II. p. 14-11.
There is an account in the Revue de l'Hypnoti¥me for March, 1889, of some rather
similar experiments by Dr. Mesnet which may, perhaps, be explained by thought-
transference, though as there was contact between him and his patient, it isdifficult to
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Tlwught-Tramje1·ence.
NUJUIEB DIUWI'.
47
60
74
22
38
45
59
66
21
83
80
73
83
21
Not noted. According
to our recollection
afterwards, the guess
WB8 partly right.
I'IUlIBEB GUESSED AND BElIABK8.
T. : "II! it a 5? 5 and 8."
T. : "6, that's all." S.:" Are you aure there's
nothing more? " T.:" Oh, yes, 61."
T. : "Is it a 41" "There's a 4 and a 7. No, it's
not. Oh, dear no, it's 5, I think-54."
T. : "It's 20." (Pause, obviously trying after the
second digit.) "22."
T.: "It's 5 and •• 35 "
T.: "I see nothing at all." (Pause.) "No, I
can't see it. What makes it so long in
coming? Now I can see it. It's a 40 and G."
T. : "'Vhat makes them so long coming? I see
something like a 2. It's a 2-0h, it's a 9 ;
I think 29." S.:" Are you sure about the
first one?" T.:" Yes, 29."
T. : "Oh, yes; it's two sixes."
T.: "Oh, it's a 1 and a 2, 21. Ain't there a lot
of them I"
T.: "Is it 3'" S.: "Well, what else'" T.:
" Nothing else."
T. : "It's 80." S.:" That's right."
T. :" . . . such a lot of numbers B8 this." (T.
spoke very low and drowsily, and Mrs.
Sidgwick failed to catch the beginning of
this sentence.) S.: "Yes, when we're
looking for them." (Pause.) S.:" 'Vhat
are you looking at?" T.:" Nothing.'
S. : .. I thought you said you saw a lot of
figures 1" T.: OJ A "3 to the right. I
believe there's an 8... S.: "Are you
sure?" T.:" Yes; 693." (S. said there
were only two figures.) S.:" You must
have seen the 6 twice over,once reversed B8
9... (Possibly the idea. of three figures
was due to Mr. Smith's remark about a lot
of figures.)
"85."
"24."
T. :."3, I think-83."
no, it's reversed 38."
S. : "Sure?" T. : "Oh,
Possibly the idea. of its being reversed may have arisen from Mr.
Smith's remark above about 6 being seen reversed as 9-80 remark
which had puzzled T. at the time. We asked T. how the numbers
looked when he saw them. He said, "They're a kind of a white--grey-
ish-white." He had not seen the numbers used in his waking state.
feel sure that unClOJl8ciOUB indications were excluded. Dr. Mesnet held the hypnotised
peraon'. hand and Bhe heard or did not hear II friend of Dr. ?Iesnet speaking to her
according lIB the latter touched Dr. Mesnet'. other hand out of her .ight or not.
Digitized by Google
134 Expe,-irM'nu, in Tltought- Transference.
IIUIIBBB DIUWl'I. l'IUlIBKR GUElSKD AliD RBJIARXlI.
33
78
T.: "A 6 and 0.4." (After a pause.) "95."
T.: "38." S.: "Sure'" T.: "Yes."
On the following day, July 6th, 1889, we tried similar experiments
with Mr. P., a clerk in a wholesale business, aged about 19, who had
also been very frequently hypnotised by Mr. Smith, and who was also
one of the subjects in Mr. Gurney's experiments described in Proct.ed-
ing8, Vol. V. He can now be hypnotised very quickly by Mr. Smith,
though he was difficult to hypnotise at first, and he exhibits the
peculiarity that his eyes tum upwards as he goes off before the eyelids
close. He is a lively young man, fond of jokes, and with a good deal
of humour, and preserves the same character in the sleep-waking state.
The positions of agent and percipient and other conditions were the
same as on the previous day.
87 S.: "Now, P., you're going to see numbers. I
shall look at them, and you will ~ them...
P. (almost immediately): "87. You asked
me if I saw a number. I see an 8 and 0.7."
(Number put away.) P.:" I see nothing
now."
19 P.: "18. What are those numbers on' I sec only
the letters like brass numbers on a door;
nothing behind them."
24 P. (after a pause) : .. I keep on looking. . • • I
see it I an 8 and a 4-84."
36 P. : "A 3 and a 5-36." S.: II How did that
look '" P.:" I saw 0.3 and a 5, then 35."
28 P. : "88. One behind the otber, then one popped
forward, and I couldsee two eights." (nIus·
trated it with his fingers.)
20 P. : .. I can't see anything yet." S.:" You will
directly." P.: "23." S.:" Saw that
clearly'" P.: II Not 80 plain &8 the
other." S.: II Whicb did you see best'"
P. : "The 2,"
~ P.: "I can see 7, and I think a 3 in front of it. I
can see the 7." S.: II Make sure of the
first figure." P.: II The 7's gone now."
48 S.: II Here's another one, P." (This remark, though
not always recorded, almost always began
each experiment, until July 27th, when, to
avoid the possibility of unconscious indica-
tions, Mr. Smith adopted the plan of not
speaking at all. ) P.: II Anotller two, you
mean. You say another one, but there are
always two." S.: "Yes,two." P.: "Here
it is. You said there were two I There's
only one, an 8." Some remarks here not
recorded. We think that Mr. Smith said
there were two, and told him to look again.
Digitized by Google
I'IUMIIBll DBAWII.
20
71
36
71
17
12
76
E~ts in Tlwught-Tramference. 135
IlUMBER QUBSIBD AIID JUUI.uutS.
P. said ho saw a 4. Mil!. Sidgwick: ..Which
came tint? " P.:" The 8 firat, then the
4to the left, BO that it would have been 48.
I should like to kDow how you do that
mck."
P.: .. A 2 and an 0; 'Went away very quickly that
time."
P.: .. 71.'
P.: .. 3 • • • 36."
P.: .. I might tum round. Should I see them just
the same over there!" (Changed his
position BO as to sit sideways in the chair,
and looking away from Mr. Smith.) S.:
.. Well, you might try." P.: .. I don't
think I see BO well this way." (He did not
move, however.) .. I see a 7 and a 5-71.
Whydon't you let them both come at once?
I believe I should see them better if you
let me open my eyes." (No notice was
taken of this.)
S. : .. Now then, P., here's another." P.:" Put it
there At once." (Then, after BOme time):
.. You've only put a 4 up. I see 7."
S.: .. What's the other figure!" P. :
.. 4 • • . the 4's gone." S.:" Have a
look again." P.: "I see 1 now." S.:
"Which way are they arranged!" P.:
"The 1 first and the 7 second."
S.: "Here's another." P.: "12. I saw that at
once. I'm sure there's BOme game about
it." (He had said BOmething about this
before, when the Dumber was slow in
coming. He said Mr. Smith was making
game of him, and pretending to look when
he was not looking.)
P. : "76."
P. was now told that Mrs. Sidgwick would look at the number, and
that he would see it just the same, which he quite accepted. Mrs.
Sidgwick then gazed at 82, Mr. Smith not knowing what the number
was. P. saw nothing, and kept asking Mrs. Sidgwick whether she was
sure she was looking at it. After a considerable time she handed the
number to Mr. Smith, still leaving P. under the impression that it
was she who was looking at it.
Then P. began as follows :-
82 P. : "I see 8 and 4, I think; very soon gone again.
There's 2 come up. There I that's gone
again."
We then tried to obtain results with Mr. Smith standing behind a
curtain which divided the room in which P. sat from an adjoining one.
Digitized by Google
136 E~eriments in Tlwught-Tt·ansference.
The distance between him a.nd P. was then about 12ft. P. was
left under the impression that Mrs. Sidgwick was still looking at the
numbers.
!'IU.BEll DIUWN.
44
51 •...
46
NUMBER GUESSED A.ND 1UlMA.RKS.
Mrs. Sidgwick: .. Do you see anything?" P.: "No. If
I was to imagine anything I chOll8 I could
see it-SS, or anything; but I wait for it to
come." (Pause.) "I thought I saw a 3, but
it .wlIDt 110 quick. This is what they call
second sight, isn't i~seeing with yonr
eyes shut!"
The conditions were the same as with the last, but
as no inlpression cante, after some time Mr.
Smith came silently into the room and
stood about 7ft. or 8ft. from P. Tltere was
still no impression, and he moved to witbin
about 4ft. Then, M there was still no im-
pression, we told P. that Mr. Smitlt would
look as well as Mrs. Sidgwick, and that
he would then be sure to see. S.: .. S~e
anything1" P.: "No." (Pause.) II I seem
to see sometlting that turned round. First
a 6 that turned into a 9." S.: "Do you
see anything else!" P.: "No. Yes, I do,
11.1-91.'
" 39."
P. was now woken up, and after an interval Mrs. Sidgwick tried to
hypnotise him, but in vain. Mr. Smith re-hypnotised him, and we
tried the effect of different positions and distances.
Mr. Smith behind P. and close to him.
75 S. : II Now then, P." P.:" Do you mean fA) say
you're going to try that thing on again?"
S.: "Yes; do you see anything!" P.:
" No, not yet." S.: "What do you see ? ..
P. "I feel as if I saw a 7, but it went away
again. S.: " Yes; anything else?" P.
"AS."
88 P.: II 8 and a 8."
Mr. Smith a yard or so from P., and to his right.
72 P. : "1 saw 72, but it went away again. Wait a
minute and I'll see if it comes again. Yes,
there it is, 72. I saw,it, but it went away
instantly at first."
48 S. : "Here's another." P.:"Look at it." (Pause.)
"I see a 4-see it there still. It stays
there." S.: Now you'll see some more."
P.: "Yes, an 8; 48."
Mr. Smith about 7ft. from P., not quite in front of him.
49 P. : "A 9." S.: "Yes 1" P.:" 96." (Pause.)
c. Yes, they come again."
Digitized by Google
E:qJerirrumts in Tlwught-Transference. 137
!'I11JIBBR DIUWl'I. NUJlBER GUESSED AND JlElU.RKS.
50 S. : .. Now, then, P., bere's another." P.:" A 5
and a 7."
63 S. : "Now, then, here's another one." P.:" 8." S.:
"Yes!" P.: "That's all." (Pause.) .. 2.'
85 P. : "85."
64 P.: "4, 3." (Asked in what order they came):
" The 3 came afterwards. H I were to read
it I should call it 34; but the 4 came fint."
57 P.: "7." S.: "Yes." P.: "6-67. Ididn'tsee
them both together that time."
74 P. : ., 49."
14 P.: "31."
3.1 P. : ., 2, 5; that would be 52."
Mr. Smith close to P.
70 P.: "A 0-70."
A blank sheet of paper was now spread out on the table, and P. was
told that he was going to have his eyes opened and that he would then
see numbers come on the paper. He was then partially awoken and
his eyes opened. Seeing the paper he immediately asked where the
planchette was, alluding to former experiments. He was told to look
at the paper and see what came, but saw nothing for some time.
He had evidently forgotten all about the previous state in which he
had been guessing numbers, and appeared so wide awake that it was
difficult to believe that he was not in a completely normal condition
until he began to speak of some former experiments in which we made
him see hallucinatory crosses on paper. Mr. Smith stood behind him.
!'IUJIBBB DIUWl'I.
18
87
37
!'lUMBER SBBl'l ON m.PAPER AND JlIUI.UUtS.
P.: "23." S.: "Is that what you can see!"
P.: "Yes" (but he added later that he
did not see it properly).
P.: "A 7, O. Oh, no, 8, 78. Funny I I saw a 7
and a little 0, and then another came on
the top of it, and made an 8."
P.: "There's a 4, 7." Asked where, he offered to
trace it,l and drew the 47, of which the
following is a facsimile :-
1 We bad, on previous occasions, asked him to trace hallucinations.
Digitized by Google
138 E~rnents in TluYught-Transference.
!'lUDEll DRAWN. !'IUKBBR SUN Oil THB PAPn .IID BBlU.IlK8.
44 P.: II No. I Bee 5, 4; it's gone again." S.: II All
right, look at it." P. : II 45." S. : II Sure '"
P.: II There's a 4 i-the other's not 80
clear." (Then quickly.) II Two fours; 44."
As he looked one of them disappeared, and he turned the paper over
to look for it on the other side; then looked back at the place where
he saw it before and said, "That's funny! while I was looking for that
the other one's gone." When looking under the paper he noticed 80me
scribbling on the sheet below and said, "Has that writing anything to
do with it t" He seemed puzzled by the figures, which were apparently
genuine externalised hallucinations. He could not make out why they
came, nor why they disappeared.
37 P. (after long gazing): "37." S.: II Is that what
you Bee!" P.: "It's gone. I'm pretty
sure I saw ffl."
Mr. Smith then looked at the 37 again and we told P. to watch
whether it came back, but after a little while he said he thought he
sa.w 29.
On the occasion just described we adopted the precaution-which
was continued on subsequent occasions-of not letting Mrs. Sidgwick
know what numbers were drawn till after they had been guessed, 80 as
to avoid all possibility of bias in recording the remarks. She only
knew at the time the number which she herself tried to transfer.
Professor Sidgwick drew the numbers from the bag and banded them
to Mr. Smith, holding them 80 as to preclude any possibility of their
being seen in a normal way during the process.
Our next subject was Miss B., a young lady employed in a- shop.
We had only two opportunities of experimenting with her. She had
been hypnotised on three previous occasions by Mr. Smith, and once by
another mesmerist, and is a remarkably good subject.
She came in on July 9th, 1889, when we were in the middle of
experiments with P., and saw in her normal state the way the experi-
ments were carried out and what the figures used were like. After she
was hypnotised and we had tried some other· experiments with her, we
proceeded to the thought-transference.
NUUD DRAWII.
18
87
IIUKBEIl 011Bll8BD AND BBIIABKS.
S. : II Now, Miss B., I'm going to hang numbers
up." Miss B. : II I Bee 6." S.: II Do you
Bee anything else' .. Miss B.: II No.. • •
6, I'm sure. Yes, 1 ; 1first and 8 after."
S. : II That's all right. Now you'll see another
one." Miss B. : "I think I Bee another 6.
All sixes. You keep pntting up sixes."
• : "Yes, there's a six; you'll Bee another
Digitized by Google
Ezperiments in Thougltt-TransfereTlce. 139
IfUlDIBIl DBAWIf. IfUIDIBIl aU_ED "'IfD RBILlRKIL
in a minute." Mias B. : "I see the 8. • •
There's something more. 1can't quite see
-a kind of a 7, I think."
18 Miss B. : "Oh, not a 6 this time!" S.: "No, not
a6." MiasB.: "land 8."
37 S. : .. Now you'll see another, Mias B." Mias B. :
" Oh, 3,-6 again." S.: "That's right."
71 S. : "Now here's another." Mias B. : "I can't
see it." S.: "You'll see it in a minute."
Mias B.: "I believe it's another 6 and a 1."
88 Miu B. : " Well, I really think 8 and another 8-
nothing else.
62 S. : "Well, now, here'l! another, Mias B." Mias B.:
" 6; 1 can't see the other figure."
60 S.: "Here's another one, Mias B." Miss B.:
" Another I I don't see it." (After a
pause.) "I think I can see something."
S. : "What does it look like?" Mias B.:
"5." S.: "Yes?" Mias B.: "I don't
see anything elae just yet." (Then, after
a pause.) "/) and a round." Mrs. Sidg.
wick: "Ia the round round the /)?"
Miu B. : "No, after U; beside it." S.:
"Then it's 50." Mias B. : "Yes, 60."
84 S. : "Here's another number going up." Mias B. :
"I don't see it yet." (Pause.) "I see
something . • . 8." S.: "What else ! "
MiuB. : "4 . • • 8,4."
16 S. : "Mias B., there's another number going up."
Mias B. : "1 and 6."
lliss B. was now told that she would see numbers gradually come
on a sheet of blank paper in front of her, and gradually disappearing
again, and was then roused into a lighter stage of trance, and her eyes
opened. She was told to look at the paper. Mr. Smith stood behind
her. We believe that in this stage she had no memory of the previous
one.
I'I11MBD DBAWl'l IfUJIBBR 8BBIf 011 TIIB PAPP, AIID RBM.\BKS.
88 Miss B.: "Well, wbat am I to see!" (Pause.) "I
believe there are some figures coming. An
8 and an 8."
She then traced them in pencil, and we give a facsimile of the
tracing.
S8
She said that they looked reddish in colour, but as before remarked,
she had seen the numbers in use, and may have been influenced by this.
Digitized by Google
140 Experiments in Thought-Transfe1·ence.
NUMBER DIUWN. NUMBER SEEN ON PAPER AND REMARKS
15 S.: "See if you see any more, Miss B." Miss B. :
"See figures - no ; where are they!"
(Pause.) "I don't see any figures; you
are cheating me." S.: "You will see some
in a 'minute." Miss B.:" 1 with 5." (Traced
them with' a pencil.) "Red, I think."
Then she was awoken and after an interval re-hypnotised and trials
made at different distances.
During the next six experiments, Mr. Smith was completely silent.
Mrs. Sidgwick, who did not know the numbers, carried on the conversa-
tion with Miss B., but did not think it needful to record her own
remarks.
Mr. Smith behind the curtain separating the two rooms and about
12ft. distant.
NUMBER DRAWN. NUMBBR aUBSSBD AIiD REMAB.KS.
5/, Miss B. : "Whereis the number! I don't see it. It
looks something like a 3, I think. I can
see something. I think it is a 3; I can't
see it very well. Something coming. Let
me see-6 again. There's some 6 there; I
can't quite see. I believe some 6. I think
I see 6."
Mr. Smith in the room, and about 8ft. from Miss B.
64 Miss B. : "I don't see it." (Pause.) " A 1. Is iii
a 1 1 Something coming like a round; 8
perhaps, or 0; 10."
Mr. Smith close to Miss B., as at first.
85 Miss B. : •• Something round again; I wonder what
it's going to turn to-not O-nor 8. It's a
6; 85."
Miss B. was now moved up close to the curtain and Mr. Smith
stood behind it.
49
33
Miss B. : "A 4, and the other one a 5; 45."
MissB.: "Where's the number!" (Pause.) "3
and another 5."
50 Miss B.: "Round rings again coming; 6, the other
looks like a round ring."
We had another opportunity of experimenting with Miss B. on
October 30th. On this occasion 6 attempts were made with Mr. Smith
in the room below the percipient, and 3 with Mr. Smith near her, but
quite silent. The list is as follows:-
NU1IIBER DRAWIi. NUMBER aUBSSIID.
Mr. Smith in the room below.
19 1,7, or 4
60 13
21 52
Digitized by Google
Experiments in TJuyught- Transference. 141
Mr. Smith near Miss B.
NUIlBBa GUESSEII.
I'IUJIBEB DIlAWN.
68
36
16 This experiment was interrupted.
63
69 69 or 61
Mr. Smith in the room below.
14 11
82 36
67 32
It would be tedious were we to describe at length all the experi-
ments, which have occupied us altogether on twenty-five evenings. We
give, therefore, the results of trials with P. and T. in a tabulated form.
The following is an explanation of the Tables.-The left hand
column on each day gives the numbers drawn,l ILnd the right
hand column the numbers guessed. When No. is printed instead
of a number it is because the actual number was not noted down.
A x in the place of a guess means that the percipient had no
impression of any kind. The successful trials are printed in thick
type, and so are the successful parts of half successes. Cases where
both digits were right, but in reversed order, are counted as
successes. An asterisk affixed to a guess means that it was to some
extent a second guess (for particulars of these see p. 146). The letter
preceding the number drawn indicates the relative position of agent
and percipient, as follows: tJ means agent close to percipient (not
actually touching) and in front of him. b means agent two or three
feet from percipient in front of him. c means any greater distance of
agent from percipient in front of him. Usually for position' c the
percipient sat leaning back in an arm-chair on one side of a full-sized
card-table, not quite close to it and rather sideways to it, and Mr.
Smith sat at the other side of the table; but sometimes Mr. Smith
stood 10 or 12 feet from the percipient. d means that the agent was
behind the percipient and ~ear him. e, behind the percipient and some
distance off. f, the agent about three feet or more to one side of
percipient.
Other experiments besides those with numbers are given in the tables,
but not in any numerical statements.
I On two or three oocasioDll numbers other than the Loto numbers, and not drawn
at random, were looked at by Mr. Smith, but &8 this made no apparent difference we
have Dot thought it desirable to oomplicate the table by indicating them.
Digitized by Google
142 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
TABLB I.
TmALB WITH P. WHn MR. SHITH WAS IN THB BAHB RoOH WITH HIH.
July 6th.
a 87 !78
,,19 ..
,,24 84
::::i Ji
,,20 :u
:: 3 :a-
,,3D 3D
,,71 71
,,36 36
,,7S ?~
,,17 ..,
,,52 52
:: i: ~-
Attempt behind
curtain interpola.
ted here.
b .II 91
,,-IfJ .19
Woken, and rest
here.
~~ ~
~ ~ ~
c 49 ¢
"SO ,5.7
,,6.1 8,2
,,35 35
,,64 .14
,,57 67
,,74 49
,,14 .11
".1.1 2S
a 70 70
(RoUsed here par·
tially, and the rest
done with open
ey•.)
cl 18 2.1.
,,87 7B
.. .17 47
,,44 44-
II ~ ~
July Uti&.
a:p :p
,,11 U
,,13 {~~
31
~:
" 23
" .56
" 88
.. ,., ,.,-
.. 10 10
" CAT CAT
.. Picture} L
of Cat
" PAW {gr
.. 19 19
" Picture} x
of Bird
..D~x
"N x
.. DOG x
"Nu. x
July 24t1&.
a 37
" 1.1
" 8.1
.. 20
" 71
" 61
II '4
" 82
" 16
" .11
II 44
" 71
35'
27
~
S4
{~
.II
10
4.1
S4
45'
p
July25t1&.
a -IfJ 72
II 1.1 S7
:: t -j}
.. 81 1,2
.. ,8 27
,,12 21
"P .19
July <J:1tA.
a 7.1 72
,,21 41
,,47 46
:: e e
,,59 Sf
,,40 JO
,,17 17
.. S7 2S
.. S.1 .,a
,,67 {~
,,18 8S
,,81 B4
,,34 24
,,88 8.1
II 7.1 ~
.. 44 ~
" 1.1 6,4.5
,,8S J6
InterVal here,and
other experiments.
a sa 8S
:: a: ~
6.1
89
47
16
.. 4S
89
i: So
a 16
b S1
" 59
II 4S
c 40
" 84
.. IS
II 61
" 10
Woken,
terval.
7S
54
34
6S
7~
~
an~' in·
(Plan of ailence
on the part of all
who knew the nnm·
ber begun at this
point.)
C 16 21
.. 88 88
...1.5 16
.. 43 43
Seventeen at·
tempts behind cur·
tain interpolated
here.
a 7.1 27
,,46 II
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 143
July 29tA. July 30th. Augwt 17th. A fig,", 20th.
a 67 65 d 60 6z c 20 .11 After two at·
"
ro -II
" 49
~
.. 71 71 tempt. 0 u hide
"
~ ~
.. ZI .. 76 75 door, with no· im·
.. " 78 5.1 .. 39 39 pnlll8ion. Then
c
" rx M " 24 24 I No. x
" 79 88 .. " 39 39 a No. x
,,4B 4B "
26 26
" ij ~~
Rest here.
Attempt. behind
" .Jz 4.1
"
c No. x
curtain interpo·
"
8r r5
" 29 29
"
No. x
lated here.
"
66 4.1
" 79 79- Woken, and
c 88 74
" 48
7~ " ~ '/2 begun again.
" 63 53
"
87 ,,76 60 c zz .J.S
" 49 49 .. 57 9/1 An attempt out· .. 47 4T
" :a :a Rest here. side the door, with .. .Jr z6
"
c
flo.
ro no impression. ThE
"
z6 .,.s
"
II II
"
X same No. then
" .18 6.1
Attempt. behind Rest here. brought in.
" .J6 75
curtain interpo. c 3.1 3Z c No. x ,,1.1 90
lated here.
"
66 .tfJ Rest. Rest here.
c 64 64 " 30 30 c 1.5 /1.1 c r6 .tfJ
.. ~ ~~ " ~
Z7 (P. T. together
"
r7 49
" " ~
for next two.)
" 40 ro
,,8.5 75
" 79 c 86 x
" 50 .J7
Rest here. ,,15 51
"
No. x
c 60 7,6 Attempt outside
" 31 34 the door here, with
" 30 30 no impression.
,,30 ~1 c 88 .17
Attempts be ind
" 69 z,o
curtain liere. ,,55 x
cS3 ~ Rest here.
Attempts ind c 79 89
curtain liere.
" ~ 30
c 56 74 A 70 70
Rest here. ttemtt outside
c r.J .Jf the door ere, with
"
.1/1 9,,] no impression.
" 39 39 c 38 38-
" .JO Z/I "Br H
" 4S 45
" 7r ro
•
Digitized by Goo~
144 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
Augwt 211t. September 218t. September 22nd. September 23rd.
f 78 x c 5; 56 c 84 3f c 8z 63
" 8S 35
"
18 10
" J7
~
,,25 20
" 53 71
"
80 8z
"
zz (P. & T. tol{8ther
" .44 Z9 ,,44 64
"
6z 69 for the next eIght.)
"
86 58 Two trials here
" 5z 43 c .1Z f4
"
70 Z4 with Mrs.Sidgwick.
" 6? 10
"
88 .14
" "" ZI C 64 64
" ~
6z
" 49 70
" T7 8.1 .
" :t1 :t1 "
88
" 46 17
Other ext:n.
" '9 x
" 7Z Z9
"
Z4 59
menta here. hen
" 4.1 19
"
84 .12
"
86 91
a rest.
" 75 4.1
"
z8 75
" 4' 7.1
c 16 81
"
10 Z4 It 51 z5
"
80 fx}
... 74 4.1 .. gf gf Pause here, and
"
89 .JO .. 56 40 d8llper hypnotisa..
" 76 IZ .. 51 Z9 tion.
"
15 54
" 54 .J7 c z8 9.1
" 41 5z " 44
x .. 84
;
"
10 .19 Woken, and in· .. 3T
.. fx} 8.1 terval. .. 15 Z9
c 5.1 x
"
50 47
.. '4 Z9 It 77 74
" .J6 x .. 7z 8,
.. 90 .so
.. II z.1
" 4B 17
Digitized by Google
Ea;perimunts in Tlwugkt-Tramference. 145
October 26th. October ~'h. October 28th.
c 4.1 .1r b 85 Z9 (P. & T. together.) (P. & T. together
lI.1r /14 1I.J6 7.8 Afleraomeattempts for all this day.)
,,;U r9 II tI6 .1,3 from another room. Aftersomeattempts
II r5 57 to 64 4.0 c 5.1 r7 from another room.
(P. &; T. together II 6? 8,.] (P. alone for next c 88 90
for the next 20.) II SO SO three.) "ro 50
c 59 IfJ (P. & T. together c 8.1 59 II /15 r6
II 8r 6/1 for the remaining II 4r tI8 II 74 74
II r6 65 attempts on this II 66 47 Pause here.
,,3t ~7 day.) (p. & T. togethe~ c 30 30
II 74 57 b.19 40 for remainder of II 5.1 .10
II 8r 64 d 7r 6sI this day.) More attempts
11.19 /1/1 II 77 /lr c 41 .11 from another room
II 43 93 to 60 r.1 II 57 ~ here, and then tried
P. awoken liere. II.1S 8S to 45 .iIO card - guessing in
Interval.-P. reo II 7/1 r6 II ro .1,7 same room.
hypnotised, an d Rest here. Woken, and in- C /I H 7 H
positions of P. &; T. d /lr .1.7 terval here. .. 5 S 5 S
exchanged. II 62 .1.2 C r~ B3 .. 4 S 5 D
C -"! /1.1 II H .1.< II 45 r4 II 8 H 6 C
.. 8~ 8~ to.1/1 4,r II /14 .18 to 9 H r H
II 59 59 1I.,a 97 II 54 6.1 II ro C K D
:: S~ 56 "~ ~~ to ~t her:.5 :: rD
C ~Se C
II 29 29 J 84 .1.7 C 46 46
.. 80 p to 7r IfJ II 30 30
1I.J8 r.s II 24 2,] Attempts made
,. 7r r6 ,,6? 78 from another room ---.----
.. 8tI 80 ...19 P here.
"r6 56 Rest here. c tI6
.. 8957 fJ2 62
Pause here. (P. ,,35 53
alone after this.) ,,6? 8r
C,' if !JAJ .. 60 94
.L'<I .. 76 67
.. K K .. 78 .14
II 88 x II 79 ro
.. BEE B.E,E.F Woken, and in-
.. HORSE BEE terval here.
again f 7r
II 7S
.. r2
II .1/1
II P
II 33
II 10
.. No.
35
October 29th.
(P. & T. together
for all these.) After
attempts down-
stairs, &c..
6 ]/1
.. 71
" 43
6,4
/II
33
October 30th.
(P.&T. together.)
After attempta
downstairs.
c 78
1'p. had been told that there would be letters, but as a nUID~ ".. afterward.
8pOken of by mistake, we thought it better to take a nUID~.
L
Digitized by Google
146 Experiments in Thought-TmnBference.
SUMMARY 01' TABLE I.
AU Day•.
Total number of attempts... 354
" " IUccel!8eS 79
Of these 79, there were with digita reverse<l 10
" " "to lome extent second gu8l888 9
MOlt probable number of complete SUccel!8el by pure
chance W = 4 or 5.
~ Day., i.e., when there toere 3 or more BUCU88e8.
Number of attempts
.. succel!8es
Other DRY'.
Number of attempts
"
successes
Half 8UCCU8U, i.e., one digit right and in the right place.
Out of the 170 non-luccessfu} attempts on IUcceuful da1l •..
Of these the digit rightly gue88ed was in the first place 35
times and in the lecond place 25 times.
(Most probable number by pure chance ~~ + ¥I- = about 36.)
Out of the 104 non.lucce88fulattempta on other days...
Of these the digit rightly guell8d was in the first place 9 times
and in the second place 12 times.
(Most probable number by pure chance ~ + llfl/ = about 22.)
Number of SUCcel!8e1 with Mr. Smith completely silent
The plan of silence on the part of all who knew the number W88
begun in the course of July 27th and maintained afterwards,
except in special cues noted at the time.
Number of SUCCeBSes with Mr. Smith behind P.
This is out of 7 trials on July 6th, the 13 first trials of July 30th,
and 13 trials, all failures, on October 26th.
109
5
60
21
39
8
Number of successes with a sheet of paper covering P.'s head ... 18 or 21
We believe that it was 21, but it is not explicitly recorded on
September 24th. The plan W88 begun on August 17th after
the first 4 gue88es. On that day a single sheet of neWJ5paper
W88 used. Afterwards the sheet W88 alws1l double.
In the case of those numbers marked with asterisks the gu888 was not
completely right at first. The details of four of these, which occurred on
July 6th, have been already given. The rest were as followl:-
July 9th. 23 P.: II 73." S.: II Which figure is the most distinct?"
"
56
P. : "The 3; the other's gone now. 2."
s. : "What nnmber is it.!" P.: "23."
P. : "I see a 2 and a 6 ... Only a 6 there now."
s. : "What do yon see!" P.:" A 6."
s.: "We'll see if yon see another."
"P. : 5~" S.:" I thought yon said
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Thought-Tramference. 147
.. 79
July3OU&. 38
79
6." P.: "Yes, butit'sgone." S.: "Well,
what is it now?" P.:" A 3 and a 6. 36
.•• 00."
P.: "39." S.:" Which is most distinct?" P.:
9-79."
P.: "I can see a 0." MI'Il. Sidgwick (who did not
know the number): "That's good-well,
it can't. be 0 by iteelf. There must be
something else? " P.:" That O's gone. I
can see 3 up there. . . . I can see 8."
P.: "89." ProfeB80r Sidpick (who did not know
the number): "Were the two numbers
equally clear!" P.:" No, 8 has gone
away and 7 come in its place. I do not
know if 8ought to have been there at all'
TABLE II.
TRIALS WITH T. WHBN' MR. SIUTH WAS IN' THE SAME ROOM WITH HIM.
July 5tA.
a 6r
.. 81-
.. n
.. 33
" 80
" 2r
" 18
" sCi
.. 59
.. .37
" 61
" 33
" 40
II 2r
.. n
.. 60
II 74
..
II 22
II 3If
.. 4S
II J'9
II 66
II 21
.. 83
.. 80
II 73
II 83
II 2r
II No.
.. 3.l
.. 711
z6
33
03
6r
rr
~
10
~
rl-
In
61
53
40
23
58
6r
{ 14
S'4
22
3S'
4S
a
21
.~
~
21
38
~
July2ftA.
a 57 16
.. 31 I
II r2 .p
II 85 7r
II 78 z6
.. 4I 17
II 1-1 23
.. 31 33
II 68 68
II 31 31
II 30 61-
II II- x
.. CAN x
"N x
,,<::1 x
Rest here.
II 'U
It No.
.
16
x
July 25th.
CI 40 ~
1I?6 V'"
.. 13 58
.. 21 28
Rest here.
a 40 13
.. 31 33
.. II 15
:: 7i ~
:: ~ "6
.. 4S 5S
., 33 35
.. 59 55
:: ~ ~
.. r6 4I
,,40 6,
Julll26tl.
rl Emerald
Green
.. Red
.. Brown
" Orange
(colour)
.. Blue
.. Black
.. Red
.. Emerald
Green
Bluish
Green
Red
Blue
Red
Blue
x
Red
GreeD
.. Drawing x
of Key
"Orange Red
(colour)
.. A Sov· A Pm
ereign
II 77
II 70
II
" 24
II 6071
"
" ~
.. "Y
63
6,1,7,3
z6
42
~
36
33
40
31-
oil
II 40
.. 31
" II
.. 44
.. Ci9
c Emerald
t
Blue
Green
.. Red
.. Brown
" 70
II 34
.. 43
Red
Green
z6
L 2
Digitized by Google
148 EJ,periments in Thought-Transference.
August 16th.
c 49 37
,,6? 85
,,52 52
,,71 71
,,37 37
.. 18 IS
,,24 24
,,35 35
,,18 16
,,3Z 3Z
"I5t 51
,,90 I2
Pause here.
e 36 84
" 90
" 2f
" 36
Woken
terval.
I6
I4
119.
and In-
Other experi-
ments tried here.
Black Blue
Light Kindof
Blue dark
Red
Augmt 19th.
IS 2Z 26
,,49 I8
,,28 38
Interval. and
other experiments
tried here.
c 76
" 37
" 46
" 87
" 37
" 64
.. 79
" 12
" 58
" 90
" 90
" 46
" 44
" I8
" 6?
" 50
7I
I4
67
4&{~ or
78
U!
85
5.2
4>3
35
33
83
56
73
85
I6
Yellow
Blue
Orange
White 1--------1
Blue
Li ht
y!how
Crimson Light
Black
August 21st_
f I5 z6
" I I 23
,,46 35
,,45 x
,,83 I7
"60 {23
" 4.5
,,28 3.7
PauBe here.
f 29 57
,,30 z6
,,83 3I
" 10
" S
.. A
4*
Z
September 20th. September 23rd.
c 84 45 P. & T. together.
"I7 72
,,30 J8
,,4B 4B
I6
" 85
,,36 47
Pause here.
c z8 57
~. is if
,,49 I3
",,6 z6
47
:::a ;
.. 38 90
,,42 38
,,55 56
,,41 4,1
,,80 I3
T. alone.
.. 30 I7
,,20 83
,,43 24
.. 40 38
"I8 57
,,20 I7
.. I8 46
"I5 60
,,70 I6
Pause here. and
some other experi-
ments.
------1 c 43 4B
September 22nd. 9"
.. IO .,.
c 6.1 U ,,13 13
6 ,,]I 37
,,'.J 84 ,,25 49
,,55 .12 ,,43 I3
,,87 53 ,,69 20
,,33 27 ,,74 24
.. 24 ~I .. 69 69
,,3.1 00 Attempt outside
,,8:1 29 the room here.
,,5I 43 C 6I 29
,,87 I5 "'0 r
" .,.
Woken. an in·
terval, with other
experiments here.
c 67 65
,,41 41
,,56 38
,,54 57
,,88 39
"I5 67
t All the witnesses agreed afterwards in thinking that this guess had been right
and noted down wrongly as reversed. •
Expe'l"ilments in Thought-Transference. 149
October 26tA. October 27th.
(P. & T. together.) (P. & T. together.) (P. & T. together.) After attempts
c 59 59 C j9 803 After attempts from another room.
.. 81 "..1 f 71 :11 from another room. (T. alone, and with
,,16 61 ,,77 :I,,,. C 5.1 6? eyes open.)
,,3I 3J ,,60 f.03 Rest here. (l z8 :I H
,,7'" 75 ".J5 I,,,. C".I IS ":I,,. .1 8
,,8I 91 ,,7:1 :1,9 ,,57 47 "8,,. 9 8 or H
"j9 5:1 Pause here. "".5 1,:1 {:I or .1
"f..1 j9 I 21 2,1 ,,10 5,:1 ".J.J blacli:
P&11IIe here, and ,,6:z 1,2 Woken, and in· ".1:1 4S
positions of P. & T. "".". .1 terval here. "J6:1.1
exchanged. ".1:1 6,1 C 1.1 8,:1 ,,7:1 f.7
C 3,8 39 "f8 f II "".5 7,8 ,,76 .J5
,,8.1 7() " 1.1,:1 ,,:14 54 ,,:I 8 7 C
,,59 9.1 ".,s :14 " 5". " KfJC Fig.
,,:1.1 0:1 ,,~ 8S ,,49 603 ,,5 7
,,55 6.1 "8,,. 6.1 Rest here. "f. 8 Kve D
"J1t) 17 b 71.f6 {guess Then after fur·
,,80 II ,,:If. .11 c.f6 not ther attempts from
".18 81 ,,6? 79 waited other room, woken,
,,71 8.1 "j9 {.1I for. and interval here.
,,8z 80 " 1.1 ".10 6,1 P. & T. together.
,,16 7f. Rest here. Attempts from b.1:1 .f6.1
G 89 65 b.J2 9,2 the oUier room ,,71 1,:1
".JS 6,9 here. "f..1 6,:1
,,67 68 C 26 2{.
,,60 69
,,76 603 October 28th.
,,78 6,:1
,,79 10 (P. & T. together.)
Woken up, and After attempts
interval here. from another room.
b 71 .J7 C 88 :1,0
,,75 .1,f. ,,10 5,9
,,12 n ,,:15 9,6
".1:1 67 "7,,. 5,:1
,,42 42 Pause here.
,,:1.1 tJ,:I {guess
,,10 .14 C /10 DO~
"No. tJ6 W&lted
for.
,,5.1 70 October 30th.
More attempts ___.____
from another ~m (P. & T. together.)
here, ~d then tried C 78 6 J
cardsm same room. 'T
C :lH 7C
,,51:! 58
" ".8 58
" 8H 6D
" 9H IC
:: QD~ i~D
" KgD 18
Digitized by Google
150 Experilments in Thought-Transference.
SUMMARY 01' TABLE II.
.AU Day••
Total number of attempt." ... 263
" ,. succeaees... 34
Of these in reverse order ... 4:
(Moat probable number of complete SUCC811888 by pure
chance W = 3 or 4:.)
8uccuBJul Day6, '.e., 1Dheft there 'IDfln thne or more IUCCUIU.
Number of attempts
"
SUCC88888
Other Day.,
Number of attempts
"
SUcce8888
Halj.IJUCUII/l., i.e., one digit rigllt and in the right place.
Out of the 102 non.succeuful attempts on succeBBful days ...
Of these the digit rightly gu8888d was in the first place 20 times
and in the second place 16 times.
(Moat probable number by chance 1.f1 + ·'1'1 = 21 or 22.)
Out of the 12'1 non·succeuful attempts on other days ...
Of these the digit rightly gu8888d was in the first place 1'1 times
and in the second place 8 times.
(Moat probable number by chance 1.JI- + W = about 2'1.)
Number of SUCC88888 with Mr. Smith completely silent, viz., all those
in August, September, and October
Number of succe..es with Mr. Smith behind T.
All out of 13 trials on July 26th; 4: trials on August 16th were
failures.
Number of suCCeases with paper over T.'s head...
This was begun during the 11th gue..of October 26th, and about
33 trials made in all under those conditions.
129
9/1
134
'1
36
19
4:
2
The great variation in the amount of success on different days is
strikingly shown by these tables. Thus all P.'s attempts on July 24th
and 25th, August 20th and 21st, September 22nd and 23rd, 82 in
number, produced only 1 success-just what chance might be expected
to give j while in 12 trials on August 17th he had 9 SUCceBBeS and 1
hruf SUCCeBB. Similarly with T. August 19th, 21st, September 20th,
22nd, October 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th show in the aggregate 83 trials
with 1 SUCCeBB j while on August 16th he was succe88fu1 7 times in
16 trials. We have entirely failed to discover any cause for this
variation, nor even whether it depends on the agent or the percipient.
Such things as the brilliant success on August 16th and 17th, and the
toW failure on August 19th, 20th, and 21st, suggest that the difference
is not in the percipient j for why should P. and T. vary together'
Digitized by Google
Eaperiments in Thnught-Transference. 151
But, on the other hand, they did not always vary together, so that it
is difficult to attribute the difference entirely to the agent. Thus, on
September 23rd, when P. and T. were both guessing at the same time,
T. was quite right 3 times and half right 4 times in 9 guesses; while
P. failed totally. During these experiments Mr. Smith was sitting 7
or 8 feet, or perhaps more, from T., and somewhat nearer to P. On this
occasion T. had come in after we had begun experiments with P., and
we hypnotised him partly to get him out of the way and partly in the
hope that remaining for a while in the hypnotic sleep might render
him more susceptible to telepathic impressions. We were much
surprised when, without anything being said to him about it, he began
to guess numbers.*
A similar difference between P. and T. showed itself on the next
day, September 24th, but in a still more puzzling way. T. came in as
on the 23rd, was hypnotised, and set in the same position as before.
P. was failing, and continued to fail, whereas T. had fair success--2
successes and 3 half S1Jccesses in 8 trials. After the 8 trials we stopped,
awoke P., had some talk, exchanged the positions of P. and T., and
re-hypnotised him. Then, for no reason that we could see, P. began to
succeed and T. to fail. Later on in the same day P. made his most
successful set of attempts with Mr. Smith outside the room. During
this he and T. sat together on the same sofa leaning against one
another, but T. failed completely.
This was not by any means the only day on which we had
experience of temporary runs of success within the day itself, as the
tables clearly show. In particular it is remarkable that on October 27th
and 28th, amid general failure, P. should on each day have had two
complete successes running. The successes on the 27th occurred after
a longish rest (without awakening), but this was not the case on the
28th. Before the first success on the 28th P. was told that we would
rest after this one more, which may have had a stimulating effect,but
a similar promise was not efficacious on other occasions. The same
phenomenon-2 right guesses in succession on an otherwise unsuccessful
day-was exhibited by T. on July 24th.
These three pairs of successes are isolated, not only from other
successes, but from half successes; but on some of the successful days
we find half successes grouped round the successes. Thus on July 6th
P. not only has one run of 7 successes and another run of 4, but in his
first 17 guesses there are 11 successes and 6 half successes-not a
• AI Hr. Smith Wall not talking, and no one else had been put in communication
with T., no information could be given to him all to when a fresh number Wall being
looked at. It Wall owing to thia that he made two attempts at one of the numbers-46.
P. wall very long-three minutel!l-in getting any impreuion that time, and T. had
both of his impr-wna with a coneiderable interval between them before P. spoke.
Digitized by Google
single complete failure. On July 9th and on July 27th he had nms of
8 successes and half successes. On July 29th a run of 9, on August 17th
of 10, on September 21st of 6. Similarly T., on the first day he tried, after
beginning with five complete failures, has, in the course of the next 23
trials, only two which are not either successes or half successes. On
July 26th, in 10 consecutive trials, there wa.s only one completefailure.
On August 16th he began with two failures, and then had 10 successes
and half successes in succession, a.ll after that failing again. As we
have already pointed out, there are, on September 23rd, 7 successes and
half successes in his first 9 trials, and on September 24th there are 5 in
the first 6 trials, with no success to speak of afterwards.
Sometimes, a.s the tables show, these runs of success seem to be
introduced or stopped by a change of conditions; but this is by no
means uniformly the ca.se. And in this connection we may ca.ll
attention to two or three sets of attempts where the percipient received
no impression at all. The most curious of these wa.s on August 20th
with P. We began with two attempts while Mr. Smith wa.s outside
the room. Up to this date, a.s will be seen in Tables III. and IV., no
impression had been produced under these conditions. But what is
remarkable on this occa.sion is that the 4 succeeding attempts with Mr.
Smith in the room, and even quite close to P., were absolute blanks.
It Wa.s only after being woken and re-hypnotised that P. began to see
numbers, though this wa.s scarcely an improvement, a.s they were all
wrong.
The position of Mr. Smith relatively to the percipient, so long a.s
both were in the same room, did not seem to us to affect the success of
the experiments on the whole, but with Mr. Smith outside the room
our success wa.s poor, though still, in the ca.se of P., considerably beyond
what might be expected by chance.
Digitized by Google
Experiments in TMUflht-Tramference. 153
TABLB IlL
TRIALS WITH P. WHBN MR. SMITH WAS NOT IN THB SAKB ROOM
WITH HIM.
Mr. Smith in a room divided by a
curtain from that in which P. was.
Mr. Smith in the p~ outside
with the door cloSed.
P. about 10ft. from P. close tAl p. IOfl .....~ P.......... ba....
curtain. curtain. wall. touching.
July6tk. July 29th. July 29"'. July 30th. uguBt 17"'. Sept. 24th.
H x 30 205 Aftt:r the After sue- After~t (P.&T.
051 x 13 051 expenments eeaaea. SUCeeatllllthe together.)
~
05,6 eoorded in No. x room. 43 43
3,6 the previous Other ex· No. x 10 3.5
605 803 column, and perimenta 059 71
z6 3,7 'ust after a andpauae. .51 .59
July '11"'. 42 402 c ompl et~ 38 x 3D 3D
33 f¥ succeaa with I7 .f1
7t 058 Mr. Smith in IS ~
60 U uooessful the room.
~
61
91t 3,7 experiments "a 6,9 05,1
52 62 in the room 053 7,3 20 21
6? 86 here. 16 83 AuglUt !!OtA.
17 83 86 305 3B 16
29 29 17 1,9 61 IS (First ex·
II 058 31 31 23 23 P erimentB
8? 6 30 IS 16 3,8 tried this
10 6,3 17
'R ,6,5 da~)
058 303 16 [;. 803 o. x
79 058 Ex J? erl· 73 10 No. x
80 39 menta m the fx} 3,8 Some elt·
z6 3.5 room, and 33 55 periments in
II 81 pause here. 2I 27 the room,
~ 66 "at. 05,7
~ 0503 with no im·
81 97 705 1,6 17 pression, fol.
61 37 ~ 60 owed.
t This must be wrongly recorded, as there were no Dumbers above 90 in the bag.
:l:Thia Dumber was Dot drawn at random, but aeleoted beoauae P. had twice had a
very vivid veridical impreaion of it during this day's experiment.
Digitized by Google
154 Experiment8 in Thought-Transference.
Mr. Smith in the room below P., floor only between, no plaster.
October 26th. OcUJber 28th. October 29th. October 30th.
(At end of evening. (Firat experi· (P. & T. together.) (P. alone.)
P. & T. together.) menta this evening. ,58 .],0 67 x:j:
22 22 P. alone.) 57 I7 88 ;u
I2 67 I,5 54- H IO (P. & T. together.)
70 73 85 76 n I49 :f1 73
24- 3t; 25 80 I9 24- 32 4-5
I4- 22 24- 6,5 75 2,7
Ii 54-
66 I8 ".0 80
October 27th. (P. T. together.) .]2 ¢ 78 ".6
49 58 89 73 4B I9
(P. & T. together 65 4-3 34- 66 78 36
for all on this day.) 78 29 33 99 64- 49
I2 85 Other experi· I2 75 34 34
34- ¢ ments, &c., here. Rest here, and H 2,0
I9 3,0 I4- 2.] then cards tried. Rest here.
Experiments up· 69 70 6D KveD 7S 65
stairs, &c., here. 54- 89 9C 5C I5 27
Then after two 24- # BC 9 H ".6 a.,
succeaes upstairs. Pause here. 77 a6
78 8,9 66 I,7 .]S 65
7I 29 ,]4- I2 24- 4B
82 9,0 59 25 2I 92
4-5 5,2 35 ".6 23 3,0
4-3 29 7I 72 60 82
76 50 86 5,4-
Rest here. Pa1l88 here.
p 2,,] 6.] n
I8 57 38 39
89 6,,]
I6 49
Pause here.
H 63
7I 54-
::: P. had not been told to look for a number in thia trial.
Digitized by Goo~
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 155
SUlIllllABY 01' TABLB III.
(1) Number of trials with Mr. Smith behind a curtain separating the
two rooma-
(a) P. 10 feet from curtain
(b) P. close to curtain .••
(2) Number of trials with Mr. Smith out of the room and doorcloaed
(3) Number of trials with Mr. Smith in the room below
Total •••
Number of BUCCeaae8 under condition (1) (a)
" " " (1) (b)
., " ,,(2) ...
" " " (3) ...
Total number of BUCCesaes
In one of these, which occurred under condition (3), the digitB
were reversed.
Most probable number of BucceBBe8-1 or 2.
Number of half BUCCe8lle8 under }All with correct digits in Becond
condition (1) (a) place '.' ••• ... •..
Number of half BUCCes&eB under }With first digit right ..'
condition (1) (b) " second digit right.••
Number of half Buccesaesunder }With first digit right ...
condition (2) " second digit right
Number of half Buccesaesunder}With first digit right •.•
condition (3) " second digit right...
37
15
- 52
15
72
139
2
1
2
3
8
17
Number of caaes in which P. had no impression; condition (l)(a) 2
" .. ,,(2) 5
" " ,,(3) 1
8
Digitized by Google
156 Experiments in Thought-Tramfe1-ence.
TABLB IV.
TRIALS WITH T. WHBN MR. SMITH WAS NOT IN THB SAllB RoOK
WITH HUrl.
Mr. Smith in the pa.ssage
Mr. Smith in the room below T. Flooring between ;
outside with the door
closed. no plaster.
T.about 10ft. T. near wall, Oct. 26th. Oct. 28tA. Oct. 29th. Oct.3OIA.
but not
from wall. touching it.
(At end (P.&T.to· (P.&T.to· (P.&T.to.
Sept.23rd. Sept. 24th. of evenin_8 gether.) gether.) gether.)
P. & T. ta- 19 605 S8 6,3 J7 87
gather.) 6S 4,9 .5'1 I7 3~ S,4
43 lC 43 IO 23 ~ 78 ~ 44- 40 7S 9,~
IO S4 I2 n Experiments 47 ~4 4D 80
S9 38 70 .'II upstairs
I9 (;:
78 4,(
S4 83 ~4 S4 here, &c. 48 7,~
30 47 I4 6,3 ~4 S or 78 47
I7 S9 Oct. 'J:itA. 69 405 9 64 49
4S 38 S4 7,~ 66 48 34 74
7S I9 8? 79 ~4 I4 3~ 6,4 n:s 70
36 4S S8 ~ Pause here. 89 73 there.
~ 37 ~.&i.4to.
66 4,8 34 60 7S sr
34 ~,I 33 66 rs 74-
gether.) S9 4,~ r2 p 46 8.1
u 8S 3S I.1 Other ex-
77 {~
.14 89 7r 8.1 ~riments,
Ifes 93 76 ~o5 .,and then .JS 84
t, and Rest here. card trial. ~4 6S
experimentAl 42 42 6D Kve ~r o,~
upstairs,&c., r8 ~o5 9C sC ~3 74-
interpolated 89 7,~ 8C 98 60 7,9
here. I6 6,0 815 7,6
78 8,9 Pause here. Pause here.
71 9,1 44 r,4 63 ~r
8~ 60 7I 57 38 S4
4S S,~
43 ~,4
The one success in 79 guesses is of course only what might be
expected by chance.
Though the success shown in obtaining good results with Mr. Smith
in another room is, 80 far, not great, we do not at all think that hope
of better success ought to be given up. There are, we think, several
points about the experiments, taken as a whole, which look hopeful,
as a discussion of them will perhaps show.
It will be noticed that both in the experiments with the curtain
between agent and percipient and in those where Mr. Smith stood
in the passage, the first attempts resulted in complete blanks-
the percipient had no impression at all. Why this should have
been it is hard to say. We always tried to conceal from the
percipient that Mr. Smith had left the room or that there was
any change in the conditions. Of course we cannot feel sure that
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Tlwught-Transference. 157
we succeeded in concealing it, but at any rate the percipients never
alluded to his absence, never seemed conscious of it, and never
suggested anything of the kind as a cause of failure. T. several
times remarked that the numbers seemed very far away and so small
as to be difficult to see, but he did not seem to connect this with
the distance of Mr. Smith. It seems unlikely, therefore, that the
absence of impression was merely the effect of suggestion-of an idea
working itself out in the percipient's mind. It is perhaps more likely
that. the idea of difficulty in the agent's mind may have been an obstacle
to success. However this may have been, it is noteworthy that the very
first tilDe we succeeded in getting any result at all with Mr. Smith in the
pa.ssa.ge (September 24th), we were very fairly successful-P. obtaining 2
complete successes and 3 half successes in 10 trials. On this occasion P.
and T. sat together on the sofa, near the wall on the side of the room in
which the door was, but not touching the wall. It had been intended
that Mr. Smith should stand just on the other side of the wall, so as to
be near them, but with the wall between. This plan was, however,
forgotten. Mr. Myers, who was with Mr. Smith drawing the numbers
for him, happened to take up that position, and Mr. Smith stood beyond
"he door, so that there was not only the wall with the closed door in it
between him and the percipients, but a distance in a straight line of
perhaps 8 or 9 feet.
We had no further opportunity of experimenting in this room,
as Mr. Smith, who was temporarily occupying the house, was on
the point of moving. The October experiments were carried on in
an arch on the beach at Brighton. It was divided into two floors-
the upper one entirely occupied by a sitting-room, from which a
stairca.tle, closed by a door at the bottom, led down into a lobby. In
this lobby, the door being closed, Mr. Smith stood or sat while trying
to influence the percipients from a distance, they sitting upstairs. But
though he was thus below them, his actual distance from them can not,
we think, have been materially greater than on September 24th. It is
possible, of course, that a feeling of greater separation may have
produced a bad effect on the experiments, but it is not necessary to
suppose this, since the experiments in different rooms in October only
shared in t.he general want of success of all the experiments at that
time. October 26th was the best'of the October days both for P. and
T. with Mr. Smith in the room with them, and we observe that
on this day, out of the only 4 trials made when Mr. Smith was down-
stairs, P. had one success and one half success and T. 3 half successes. It
is to be regretted that we did not begin experiments in different rooms
earlier on this day, but the success had not been striking, and we waited
for a better vein, which did not come. On the whole, though Miss B.'s
want of success is an argument the other way, the result of our
Digitized by Google
158 - Experim,entJJ in Thought-Tramference.
experiments rather suggests that the special difficulty, whatever it may
have been, of obtaining good results with the agent in one room and
the percipient in another was overcome on September 24th, at least, as
far &8 P. was concerned, and that what interfered with success in
October, when by far the larger number of these experiments were tried,
was some general difficulty. Unfortunately, it seems not improbable
that this general difficulty may simply have been boredom on the part
of the percipients in the hypnotic state, of which there were several
signs, and that in that case we may be dependent on new percipients to
enable us to pursue the investigation.
We have now to discuss the nature of the impression received. It
was probably owing to our own suggestion at the beginning that this
was almost always visual, though it is possible that the fact that
Mr. Smith's impression was visual may have contributed to this result.
It would be interesting to find out whether a new percipient could
be similarly made to have auditory impressions. In two or three cases
T. said that he saw nothing, but that something seemed to tell him
that the number was s<Hond-so, but" something II neyer told him right.
The difference between this form of impression and his more ordinary
one is well illustrated by one of the experiments on July 25th. The
number drawn was 66. T. said, "Something says 37, is it '" Mr.
Smith: .. Can't you see that '" T.: .. No." S.: " Well, I want you
to tell me what you see." T.:" I can't see anything." S.:" Well,
look hard." T.: .. Now it's something-6'" S.: .. Well'" T.:" I
can't see anything else." S.: .. Well, look hard." T.: .. Can't see
anything else." (Pause.) S.:" Can you see anything now'" T.
.. I 8fIe a 6; nothing else." The number was then put away, and T.
was told that he saw only 6 because the number consisted of two sixes.
T.: .. Oh, that's it, is it; but I ought to have seen two sixes, then, and
I only saw one."
This last remark illustrates a characteristic point about the
impressions, namely, that they were perfectly definite perceptions,
not to be changed by consciously received suggestions or by an
exercise of the imagination. Another illustration may be given of
this. On August 21st P. was told that he was now to see something
quite different-not a number at all, and Mr. Smith then looked at
the word DOG. As after some time he had had no impression whatever,
Mrs. Sidgwick told him it was a word. As this did not help him she
added that it was something he was fond of. Still P. had no
impression, so she told him to try to see one letter-the first letter of
~he word. Presently P. said: "I see an S or an 8-it's gone again ; II
quite regardless of the fact that a word could not begin with 8.
In saying that the impressions were perceptions-not guesses in the
Digitized by Google
Ea:periments in ThO'll{}ht-Tramference. 159
proper sense of the word-we do not mean that they were always clear ;
but when not clear it was, so to speak, clearly perceived that they were
not clear. It is somewhat difficult to decide whether the impressions
ought to be called hallucinations because the percipients had their eyes
closed, and we have, therefore, no clear conception of what the aggre-
gate of their visual sensa.tions W8o8 and what relative place in the
aggregate this particular one had. The experiments with open eyes
when the numbers were seen on the sheet of paper, though they
prove that the impression could be externa1ised 808 a visual hallucina-
tion, cannot, of course, prove that it had the same characteristics in
80 different stage of hypnotisation. The question is complicated by
the fact that P. was, at times at any rate,-808 his remarks in
the Rance of which the full account h8o8 been given show-conscious
that he W808 not seeing in an ordinary way, but that his eyes
were closed. Nevertheless, the percipients spoke so persistently
of seeing, seemed so clearly to locate what they saw in 80 particular
point in space, and so clearly at times expected others to share the
impression, that we caJl hardly doubt that it had to them the
characteristics of 80 8ensa.tion received through the eyes. In the seances
described at length the reader h8o8 already some of the material for
forming 80 judgment on this point, and we may quote here 80 few more
incidents which seem to throw light on it.
On July 9th, after the successful guess of 10, Mrs. Sidgwick 808ked
Mr. Smith in writing, which W8o8 our mode of communication with each
ot;her about the experiments, to tell P, that he (Mr. Smith) did not
know what he would see now, that he did not think it would be
numbers, but that P. W808 to tell him whatever it W808. Mrs. Sidgwick
then handed to Mr. Smith the letters CAT, taken from 80 spelling
game and arranged in the lid of 80 box in such 80 manner 808 to make it
impossible for P. to see them had his eyes been open. The experiment;
W8o8 quite unexpected by Mr. Smith, who had never seen the spelling-
box, 808 well 808 to P., Mrs. Sidgwick hoping that the mild surprise
would produce some interesting result. P. said excitedly (and we
think pointing, though this is not recorded in the note-book): "There
it is-there's 80 cat, look." S.:" '\Vhat do you see'" P.:" Why,
CAT; don't; you see it' Did you think I saw 80 black cat or 80
tabby' I wish I had; I'm very fond of animals. I mean the letters."
In this connection we may mention another incident which had nothing
to do with the present experiments, but ha.s some bearing on the
question under discussion. P., when left to himself in the hypnotic
state, usually starts dreams and hallucinations on his own account.
These generally relate to the circumstances of his every day life; for
instance, he will carry on conversations with 80 brother or companion
whom he imagines to be present. Once, when left in this way with
Digitized by Google
160 Experirnents in Thought-Transference.
closed eyes while we were attending to sOmeone else, he began to go
through all the action, with appropriate words, of petting an imaginary
cat which sat on his knee and climbed about him and over the back of
his chair. When Mr. Smith asked him what he had got there he
seemed indignant at the stupidity of the question because Mr. Smith
must be able to see that it was a cat.
Such remarks as the following-selected among many-all seem to
show a belief on the part of P. that he really saw the numbers :-
On July 29th, 48 having been drawn, P. said: "These two are
plainer. If you always put them up like that I'll always tell you."
Later on the same day 48 was drawn again. After a pause P. said,
with excitement: "That's that 48 again, just as clear as before."
In another trial on the same day, when 20 was drawn, P. said:
"45; shall I wait to see if they change ~ I see them up in the air
sideways a bit."
On August 21st-a day when we had no success at all-I7 was
drawn, and P. guessed 83, remarking that they were "bigger numbers
to-night. I seem to see them quicker."
Later on the same day he remarked of one of his impressions that
both figures seemed half rubbed out. Similar to this was a remark he
made on October 30th. The number drawn was 44. P. said: "2 and
a 0, the 0 plainest, but not very plain. The numbers are getting too
old, I think."
On October 29th, in one of the trials with Mr. Smith downstairs,
59 having been drawn, P. said: "I can see 5-and a 2, one after the
other-5 again and 2 underneath it. It was 25 afterwards. There it
is now. Do you see it, Mrs. Sidgwick 1"
In the next trial the impression persisted after the guess had been
made and when we wanted to go on to the next. So Mrs. Sidgwick
suggested to P. that he should look away from it. P. said he would,
then laughed, saying he had looked away for a moment and then looked
back, and in that moment the numbers had gone. Similarly on
October 30th, after guessing a number (quite wrong, and also
unlike T., who had spoken first). P. said: .. I did not know there was
another up. I did not look, and there it was in front of me. The five
was the clearer of the two."
On another occasion, October 27th, Mr. Smith being in the same
room with him, P. said: "Would you mind my sitting a little nearer;
I can't see well." He was told that the numbers had been brought
nearer, which satisfied him, but the guess he made was nevertheless
wrong.
T.'s remarks about his impressions were very similar. Thus, on
July 25th, the number drawn being 25, T. saw nothing for some time,
then said: .. A sort of 5." S.: " Well. what else 1" T.:" 5-8-no,
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Thought-Tra'I/JJlerence. 161
not 8-it's a bad shaped one-35." S.:" Sure it's a 31" T.:" It's
made badly."
Again, on October 27th, the number drawn being 34 and P. having
guessed 98, T. said: "8-looks like O-it's a 9-the 0 not quite
plain-I think it's meant for a 9-one over the other." And again in
the next trial: "It's a 9 and a 3-9 at the top. That 9's very bad."
On September 20th. T. said, in answer to questions, that he saw
the numbers right up in the comer~rk on a. light ground-very
small He also complained on this day and at other times of their
being" such a long way oft' you can scarcely see them."
T. gave quite a dift'erent account of his impressions when guessing
numbers with Mr. Myers as agent. He did not then talk of seeing,
though he had been told he would either see or hear a number. When
asked whether he heard or saw it he replied, "No, I seem to imagine
it"; and he said the same when Mr. Leaf was trying thought..
transference with him.
An interesting point about the impressions of the percipients will
already have been noticed by the reader, namely, their frequently
gradual development, along with which we may consider the
varying times which they took to come. Quickness was not specially
associated with rightness. On August 16th, T.'s successful attempts
varied in the time they took from 15 seconds to 21 minutes, and on
August 17th, P. when successful took from 45 seconds to 31 minutes.
We did not always time our experiments, so have no complete record.
The longest time recorded was 3 minutes 50 seconds. This was on
September 21st; the impression, when it came on that occasion, was
wrong and also fleeting, and the attempts before and after it produced
no impression at all. A rather remarkable experience on the sameday,
however, suggests that the impression, Aven when right, may take much
longer to come and may even be deferred-meaning by that that it may
be received by the percipient after the agent has ceased to direct his
mind to it and when he has begun to try to convey to the percipient a
totally different impression. What happened was this. After two
successive correct guesses by P., the number 19 was drawn. We waited
for til minutes, and then, as P. had no impression, gave it up, and drew
another number, which turned out to be 43. Twenty-five seconds after
the new number was drawn P. said 19. This was recorded and another
number drawn, viz., 75, 13 seconds after which P. said 43. Thus two
numbers in succession were rightly given, but one stage late. The
numbers had not been named aloud, and P. had a double sheet of paper
over his head, so that he could not have seen them even if they were
handled carelessly after being given up. It makes it less likely that the
occurrence was due to chance that it happened in a run of successes ;
there had been 4 half successes and 2 successes in the 6 previous trials.
)I
Digitized by Google
162 E:eperiment8 in Thought-Transference.
Once at least-viz., in the experiment of August 1Tth-P. had his
impression before Mr. Smith looked at the number. It was wrong, as
might be expected, but he stuck to it after Mr. Smith began to look. The
impressions often came almost immediately, though we have no shorter
time recorded than 13 seconds. One of the quickest was a right guess
of T.'son October 26th. To stimulate their interest, we had put P. and
T. lin rapport with one another and told them to try who could see the
numbers quickest. Then 21 was drawn, and instantly T. said, "2 and
a I." So instantaneous was it that Mrs. Sidgwick, who did not know
the numbers, thought that T. had guessed at random and without
waiting for the usual visual impression, in order to be before P. She
taxed him with this, but he declared that he had seen it.
The gradual development of the figures was of two kinds-either
one figure coming before the other, or the figures forming themselves by
degrees. A good instance of the first is afforded by one of T.'s
successful guesses on August 16th. The number was 32. He said 3.
Professor Sidgwick said: "Do you see only one 1" T.: "Yes."
Prof. S. : "Try to see another." T.:" 2." Mr. Wingfield, who was
taking the time, recorded 30 seconds for the first and 55 seconds for the
second. Again, on July 29th, the number drawn being 30, P. said:
" I see 3-1 see one of them now. Mr. Smith, please look at both of
them." S.:" All right, I'm looking at both of them." P.:" There's
a 0."
The following is a case of gradual development of one of the
figures. It was on July 27th; the number drawn was 89; P. said:
" 9." S.:" Yes 1" P.:" 8 in front of it. I thought it was going to
be a 0 at first."
Butone of T.'s guesses of cards was as marked an instance of gradual
development as any, though his impression was not derived from Mr.
Smith. Mr. Smith was downstairs looking at a 9 of clubs. P., who
was not en rapport with T., guessed 5 of clubs. Then T. said: "Has
Mr. Smith put anything up yet t Oh, yes, yes (meditatively). I see
it now (then counting), I, 2, 3, 4, 5. 5, yes-a. bla.ck-5 of clubs.
Oh, I see them plain; 5 still."
Quickness and clearness did not necessarily go together; for
instance, in one of the trials on October 30th (wrong, but made more
quickly than his recent attempts) P. said, "That's quick, isn't it'"
Asked whether it was plain, he said, "Not very, but it came
suddenly; the others took some time to form."
Nor, again, did clearness and rightness necessarily go together,
though we do not remember that P. was ever excited by the vividness
of an impression except on certain occasions when it was right. T. was
never excited at all.
T., on more than one occasion, began to guess numbers when we had
Digitized by Google
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 163
not intentionally called his attention to the subject; he had, however,
seen P. doing it before he was himself hypnotised, and this may
have suggested itself to him. P., as far as we remember, only once did
anything of the kind, and that instance was a rather curious one. He
had been left in a deep sleep with a paper over his head and at a
considerable distance from Mr. Smith and T., while '\\'e were trying the
experiments with the latter with his eyes open on October 29th. Mr.
Smith was looking at the 4 of spades and T. had been describing the
imaginary knave of diamonds which he saw on the paper in front of
him. Suddenly P. said: "Let's have a game of cardsl -4 of spades."
S.: "What's that you are saying 7" P.:" About a 4 of spades I saw.
I thought you were putting up cards."
We now come to the most important question of all, namely, how
the impressions, which thus visually presented themselves to the
percipients, reached their minds.
Before discussing the successful attempts at divining the number
on which Mr. Smith was concentrating his attention, it is worth notic-
ing that in certain unsuccessfUl attempts when P. and T. were guessing
together, they influenced each other, or, at any rate, P. influenced T.
There were 156 of these joint trials. In 11 cases the order of guessing
is not noted, in 21, which we may call mixed guesses, the digits were
named singly, and either alternately by the two percipients, or else one
having named a digit, the other named two, and then the first finished.
In 38 cases T. completed his statement before P. began; and in 86 P.
similarly guessed first. Now among these 86 cases in which T. did not
make his guess until after P. had finished, he guessed the same two
digits as P. 16 times,1 in 13 of which the digits were in the same order
as P.'s. This might not have seemed remarkable if we had previously had
reason to suppose that T. could always hear P., but, as a matter of fact,
they were usually not en rapport with each other-neither apparently
knew that the other was present, and when assured that he was and
communication attempted, each would get annoyed with the other's
rudeness in not answering him, however much he raised his voice and
shouted to him. And the proportion of these imitative guesses was
rather larger when they were not en rapport than when they were.
1 One of our devices to stimulate their interest had been to call guB88ing carda a
game, the day before.
I None of these were sUOOllllllfuI guesses. Had they been, the second couId not
of coursehave been counted. But though P. and T. did not influence each other for good,
there is some reason to think that they sometinIes influenced each other for evil-the
impression from the oo-percipient overcoming that from Mr. Smith. Thus on one
occasion (September 24th), when the number drawn was 74, T. said 7, then P. said
57, upon which T. said 75. Asked to repeat, he said: II I think it was 7,4; I said
5 but it was more like 4-had a tail to it." P. and T. were not en rapport on this
oocaaion.
II 2
Digitized by Google
164 Experiments in ThCYUght-Transference.
T. followed P. when not en rapport with him 63 times,l in 10 of which
his guess was the same as Po's, besides 2 where he glwe Po's digits in
reverse order. So large a proportion as this can scarcely be due to
chance, and we could strengthen the presumption that it was not, by
an examination of the mixed guesses and of those in which T. gave
one number the same as Po's, or vice versd. The influence of T. on P.
was less marked, but appeared to exist. We must therefore suppose
that soundswhichfell unconsciouslyontheear yet produced an impression
on: the mind, of which the percipient became aware solely through its
reproduction in a visual form-a supposition which is, of course, entirely
in accordance with observations made by others.
One conclusion to be drawn from this is that for evidential purposes
in psychical research no reliance can be placed on the fact that a
person-whether hypnotised or not-is entirely unaware that an
impression has reached him through his senses, if by any possibility it
could so have reached him. It is, therefore, necessary to examine the
experiments dealt with in this paper with anxious care in order to see
whether there was any possible channel of sense through which the
agent's impression could have reached the percipients.
ThE:' eye is, we think, absolutely excluded. There were a sufficient
number of successful experiments with Mr. Smith behind the percipient
and with the percipient's head covered over, to make it unnecessary to
consider the various possibilities of careless handling of the numbers,
reflection in the cornea, or changing facial expression and gesture.
The sense of touch may also, we think, be regarded as excluded.
There was never any direct contact between agent and percipient
except in one or two cases where it was purposely tried and did not
produce success, and it seems absurd to suppose that vibrations of the
floor caused by rhythmical movements of the agent, of which he was him-
self unconscious and which were invisible to others, can have been
powerful enough to affect the percipient.
We are reduced, then, to the sense of hearing. Here, again, all in-
dications by leading questions or changes in the tone of voice are ex-
cluded by the success of the experiments when all who knew the num-
ber were absolutely silent. There seem to be only two ways in which
the impression could have reached the percipient through his ears-
either by means of faint unconscious whispering of the number by Mr.
Smith in the effort of concentrating his attention on it, or by means
1 It ought to be stated that in two of these cases Mrs. Sidgwick repeated the
number after P. before T. spoke. She was herself, however, not en rapport with T. in
one of these tw~, and as regards the other, it did not appear from othel' experinlents
that T. was easily influenced in his guesses, consciously.
. 2 Com~~ some of the incidents mentioned in the paper on recent experinlents
111 crystal VISIOn, Proceeding" Vol. V. See also in this connection M. Pierre Janet's
interesting volume, L'Automatinnc PB1!cMlogique.
Digitized by Goo~
EXperi1lur1'/,ts in Tlwught-TmnsJe1'e'nce. 165
of faint unconscious counting of the number by breathing, or some
other rhythmical movement producing sound. Both suppositions
appear to involve hypel'll!llthesia in the percipient, since the supposed
sounds were unperceived by attentive bystanders, and nothing else
that we observed gave us any reason to suppose that the percipientR
were hypermstbetic; indeed their apparent unconsciousness of Mr.
Smith's absence when he was in another room seems to show that they
were not. But let us assume. hypermsthesia; let us also assume, what
we have no ground for regarding as at all probable, that Mr. Smith
may have whispered o.r counted unconsciously after his attention had
been called to the danger of doing so; and let us examine the two
suppositions. On either a certain number of failures would almost
certainly occur, in which· the indications given would be imperfectly
apprehended. .
Of the two suppositions, unconscious whispering seems the less
improbable, because the concentmtion of the mind on a written or
printed number with a view to having as intense an impression of it
as possible, is found to cause a certain tendency to say the number
mentally, but no tendency to count it. The symbol for a number is in
this respect unlike, for instance, a playing card, where a tendency to
count the pips often does accompany the effort to concentrate one's
mind on it. Now any whispering or faint pronouncing of the number
would lead, one would think, to numbers whose names have common
chamcteristic letters being mistaken for each other. Thus we should
expect to find fours and fives interchanged because of the f; sixes and
sevens because of the s; perhaps twos and eights, and ones and nines
because of the t and the n ; and possibly fives and nines becauseof the i.
Three would stand by itself as quite different from all the others. We
confine ourselves to the single digits, because the names of double
numbers are pmctically compounded of the names of the two digits of
which they are composed. .
Now if we examine the guesses we do not find that any of these
mistakes are prevalent. The following three tables show the numbers
drawn, with the corresponding guesses, analysed into single digits :-
Digitized by Google
166 Experiments in Thought-Transference.
TABLB V.
P.'S GUBSSES ALONB ON SUCCESSFUL DAYS, MR. SMITH BEING IN THB
SAMB ROOM WITH HIM.
j'
Numbers Guessed.
~~ .~ 3~
'~'i
o I!!
ZA I /I .1 .,. 5 6 7 8 9 0
E-4'O
ZI:I.
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- --
I I7 5 .,. .,. 5 I ... /I /I :I I .,..1
:I I I.,. 5 :I ... ... I .1 ... ... ... :16
.1 :I 8 :II .1 .1 ... .1 I .1 '" :I .p
.,. .,. ... 6 :1.1 I .1 :I I .1 I /I .,.6
5 I :I .,. .,. I6 .,. .1 5 .1 I .1 .p
6 :I :I :I .,. :I I.,. /I .1 I .1 :I .17
7 I .,. I I .,. .,. 27 .1 ... ... ... .,.5
8 I I 8 :I .1 ... 5 :lO ... I .1 H
9 ... I ... I I I I :I I:I I I :II
0 /I .,. r 2 :I r :I .., ... 8 ... 22
-- - r- - - - - - - - - -- --
Totals
.1I .,.I 5:1 .,.6 .17 28 .p .f.O 24 I7 I.,. .176
guesa'd
Digitized by Google
E.rimB'ntB in Thought-Tramference. 161
TABLB VI.
To's GUB88_ ALONB ON SUCCBSSFUL DAYS, MR. SMITH BBING IN THB
SAMB ROOM WITH HIM.
i~
Numbelll Guessed.
3~
.~
~! I :I .1 4 S 6 7 8 9 0
'~'I
~.s
ZI=Io
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- --
I 9 I I I .1 .1 I ... :I ... ... :14
:I .1 10 ... :I ... :I ... ... ... ... ... I7
.1 I .I 9 I .1 I ... I I ... I MJ
4 I .1 .1 II I I I ... ... I .., :1:1
S .I .I I I I ... I ... I I ... I.1
6 ... ~ I I ... 10 ... I I ... ... 18
7 I S I ... .1 I .1 I ... ... ... IS
8 I ... .1 ... .1 I I .1 I I ... I4
9 :I I I I ... ... I ... :I I ... 9
0 :I I I I I .1 I I ... .1 ... II-
-- - - - - - - - - - - -- --
Totals :1:1 IN) .II :1.1 18 :1:1 9 7 8 7 I I66
S-'d
Digitized by Google
168 Experirnenl$ in Tho'Uf}ht-Transference.
TABLE VII.
ALL GUESSES WITH MR. SMITH IN THE SAME ROOM AS THE PERCIPIENTS
OR ONLY DIVIDED FROM THEM BY A CURTAIN.
I 4.1 I8 20 I7 22 I.J IO I.J 6 2
2 ro n n u 8 9 6 884
.J I4 24 54 II IS I.J II 7 9 5
4 2I I6 22 52 I.J IO II 6 9 .J
5 7 9 I2 I6 .J5 I9 7 8 7 .J
6 I2 II I2 I2 II 46 I4 I.J .J .J
7 I.J 2I I.J I I IS I6 40 8 4. 2
8 II 7 26 I.J I.J I2 I4.J4 7 5
9 45II 2 6.J5 6I9 9
o 7 6 IO 8 9 7 8 2 6 I9
4 I68
I40
.J I66
6 I6r;
5 u8
.J I40
2 I45
I 7I
82
Experiments in Tlwught-Tmnsfe1·ence. 169
Table V. gives P.'s guesses on successful days, when he was
guessing by himself, uninfluenced therefore by T. Table VI. similarly
gives T.'s guesses on successful days. Table VII. gives all the guesses
of all the percipients (except one or two where more than two digits
were guessed), whether joint or not, when Mr. Smith was either in the
same room with them or divided from them only by a curtain. The
first column in each table refers to the numbers drawn, the first
line to the number guessed. If therefore,for example,we want to see in
Table V. how many times 5 was guessed as 1, we find 5 in the first column
and follow the line headed by it till we come under 7 in the first line.
The number thus arrived at namely 3, is the number of times 5 was
guessed by P. as 1 on his successful days. In making these tables we
have counted guesses in which both digits were given in reversed
order, as reversed, so they are not included among the cases of corre-
spondence between numbers drawn and numbers guessed. After
allowing for what would probably have happened by chance alone, the
number of guesses with both digits right but reversed is about
5 per cent. of the number completely right. If, therefore, the same
tendency to reverse the number occurred in unsuccessful attempts,
when the number was imperfectly apprehended, we must assume that
about 5 per cent. of the numbers in the tables are wrong, when judged
in relation to the origin of the idea in the percipient's mind.
Now let us consider the effect of counting. This would lead to a
tendency to guess the numbers immediately above and below the right
one, especially in the larger numbers. Here also we confine ourselves
to single digits, since the digits, if there is counting at all, must be
counted separately. It is absurd to suppose that anyone would count
up to 12, for example, because he was concentrating his mind on that
numbel·. Turning to the tables we find from Table VII. that eight
mistakes were made twenty times or more. These were: 1 guessed as
3 and as 5, 2 guessed as 3, 3 guesssed as 2, 4 guessed as 1 and as 3, 1
guessed as 2 and 8 guessed as 3. Of these eight, only three could
possibly be explained by unconscious counting, viz., 3 for 2, 2 for 3,
and 3 for 4. But of these the two first might equally well be explained
as results of the kind of imperfect vision of the number so often
complained of by the percipients, and this is also the explanation
suggested by the most prevalent mistake of all, namely 8 guessed as 3.
And that this is the true explanation is further suggested by the fact
that 3 is very seldom guessed as 8. For though an 8 half rubbed out
might resemble a 3, a 3 could not so easily be converted into a badly
seen 8,whereas with 2 and 3 the possibility of mistake would be recipro-
cal; an imperfect 2 might be mistaken for a 3 as easily as a 3 for a 2.
On the whole, therefore, 'we think that an examination of the facts
affords no support worth considering for the supposition-in itself as
Digitized by Goo~
170 Experiment~ in Tlwught-Tmnsje'l'ence.
we have said extremely improbabl~f unconscious counting hyper-
IeSthetically heard. Further the supposition of counting cannot
possibly explain the successful guessing of CAT and the guessing of
.BEEF for BEE. If this was the result of unconscious auditory
indications at all, it must have been of whispering, a supposition, as we
have seen, quite unsupported by anything in the guessing of numbers.
Finally, though our success with the agent in another room was
comparatively small, it was, in P.'s case, quite sufficiently beyond the
probable amount to afford support to the view that the conditions of
success, whatever they were, were, at any rate, independent of uncon-
scious auditory indications.
Before leaving the tables we may call attention to the fact that a
decided number-habit is exhibited,1 especially by T., which led him to
guess the higher numbers, 7, 8, and 9, comparatively seldom, and that
this seems to have affected successful and unsuccessful guesses alike.
The number 9 had of course a smaller chance of being guessed right on
account of the absence of numbers above 90. There were scarcely
enough trials, probably, to reveal any number-habit as regards double
numbers, but the guesses extended over the whole range. All numbers
turned up, all were guessed. Only fourteen were never guessed right.
These were 14, 25, 28,33,47, 51, 54, 55,60,62,73,77,85,90. One
number, viz., 24 was guessed right seven times including two of W.'s
guesses on July 4th. One number, 48, was guessed right five times.
Six were guessed right four times, viz., 15, 16, 30, 35, 36, 15. Ten
were guessed right three times, viz., 20, 29, 32, 31, 39, 42, 58, 71,
76, 81. The rest were guessed right either once or twice.
1 It is ~]y neoeeaary to remind our readers that a number-habit affecting the
percipient only can have no tendency to increase the number of au_ful gueues.
A diacuuion of this aubject will be found at page 209.
Digitized by Google
