{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__lewis___aude_alterem_partem.pdf","mytitle":"Aude Alterem Partem","mylang":"de"}
T H I S B O O K W A S P R E P A R E D
THROUGH THE JOINT ACTIVITIES
of
The National Membership Defense Committee
and
The Administration and Welfare Committee,
The Grievance Committee,
The Resolutions Committee,
of the
1935 National AMORC Rosicrucian Convention
in San Jose, California
July 14th to 20th
Printed in U.S,A„
THE ROSICRUCIAN PRESS, LTD.
San Jose, California
The Purpose of This Report
' THE 1988 Convention of Roslcru-
dans held In San Jose, California,
pidfh registered delegates and officers
|n w every section of North America
'pttesent, it was unanimously voted, upon
|lttu» recommendation of the Membership
IDefense Committee, and of the Admiui-
on and W elters Committee, that
__committees should complete the
'•iSnqutry and investigation being made
Into the charges made against AMOBC
and its officers, and that the reports of
investigations and inquiry should
•-be sworn to and signed by every person
'isnrotved in ;the investigation and then
' dashed in suitable form as a defease
IAMOBC against the malicious earn*
of injury being carried on by the
"ors.
S|iitse Membership Defense Committee;
ntarily formed by members, and or-.
1for.the purpose of defending the
Ms and interests of the members of
against any interference ere-
-acted by the .activities of the conspirators,
charge of the various reports and
dons made by the convention
trees, , and submits herewith its
and/ arfrument as a brief and
1m utable outline of the facts brought to
' 'tpght^.not only by. these convention com-'
and investigators but by its
activities throughout the past two
fffjfc.r- :(f
H is committee of membership defense
■iteconvinced that the officers of a m o rc
■mt h it interested in m y exploitation of
in character or oilier
characteristics of any of the
nor are they interested in
j t»-the unhappy and unpleasant .
_ retorting to the malicious and
M d jsiHftteTy, remarks of those, who have.
“ ^sponstotently attem pting to destroy
L ’liepute and integrity of AMORC.
Uie whole investigation is like
dfeug into a quagmire of a most
l and deplorable nature.
not for the fact 'that the
•Stwetve years of silence on the
AMORC and its officers, and
to give any considera­
tion to the false and fictitious
brought against them, had enabled these
conspirators to point to the silence as
seeming evidence of guilt, and had not
this same silence encouraged the con­
spirators to feel that they could safely
go into Court and secure injunctions
and restraining orders and other legal
actions th at greatly interfered with the
peaceful activities of AMORC, causing
AMORO to spend large sums of money in
defending itself before the Courts of
law, and In correcting the wrong im­
pression that was, thus created In the
minds of newspaper editors, magazine
writers, public officiate, and a large por­
tion of the public itself, the Membership
DefenseCommittee would not have Anally
decided to issue any printed m atter or
statem ent In defense of AMORC and Its
officers.
In each ease where the activities of
the conspirators or their associates have
brought the m atter into Court; AMORC
and its officers have been able to com­
pletely and. cleanly defend itself, while
the conspirators to re failed utterly to
support any one of their charges or con­
tentions with either evidence or the least
foundation in fact, to w arrant any of
the charges made, Therefore, AMORC
and its officers have bear victorious in
each court issue and decree up to the
present time.
But as months have passed, the m atter
has broadened and is no longer a m atter
for the Courts of law, but for the Courts
of public opinion, because the conspira­
tors have left no stone unturned to
disseminate their malicious pamphlets,
letters, newspaper articles, affidavits,
and manufactured exhibits to the public
a t large. To continue to remain silent
in the face of such a nation-wide cam­
paign is not only absurd and ridiculous
but unfair to AMORC as an organization
whose integrity, honesty of purpose and
sincerity have never been questioned
until these few conspirators started their
campaign.
This entire pamphlet or booklet, there­
fore, was prepared by members of the
—5—
"Membership Defease Committee,” rep­
resenting the membership of AMORC
wxd not the Board of Directors or admin­
istrators of AMORC. I t Is Issued in
defense of the organization and its offi­
cers as weH. as in defense of the mem­
bers, Jt Is Issued in the spirit of Justice.
It Is sent forth as a m atter of informa­
tion to those who have read the books
and pamphlets, letters and circulars, is­
sued by Mr. Clymer, Mr. Saunders, and
their three or four associate, and have
made inquiry of us.
If this pamphlet, like its predecessor, 3
“White Book C,” succeeds in merely *
answering the charges made by the con- ’i
spirators and defending the organization
against any injury which might result S
from such charges, the booklet will havd'5
served its only purpose, and Its mission '
will have-been fulfilled. 1
Fraternally submitted to the member- -
ship at large, and to those who have ■
inquired for such defensive information, %
National Membership Defense Committee,
O. Ray Steven*, Chairman
Peter Falcone, Secretary.
Attested and approved for publication,
H» SESNCER X.SJWIS
. Imperator of AMORC for North
and South America.
Rftit Jose, California
August 6th, 1985.
The Value of Testimony
IMPORTANT FOREWORD
iJta common practice In all civilized
jgSKBts of law and inquiry, and it is good
sense among civilized beings,
^demand that those who bring charges
' as individual or an organization
’support their charges and prove
. true and exact.
la so t ordinarily necessary is any
nor from the common-sense point
(tyiew is it necessary, th at the person
reorganization so' charged m ust prove
_ Iwwrtf guiltless of the charges made.
pE|,those who make the ehargea cannot
Hiiwio them, the other side need not pre-
any defense.
KfiVtoty often, however, those who are
gijBffertag under malidoua and false
im a g es must present their defense in
gppder to reveal the unsoundness, incor­
and falsity of the charges
pgrtfc; otherwise no board of inquiry, no
M gnxt of law, may arrive a t a complete
ilsn d adequate conclusion. That is the
___ . reason why AMORC and its
spim inistration have been prevailed upon
perm it its defense to be offered to
p d a membership.
False Evidence
. - I t is commonly recognized in all courts
j^dC law and among persons of good corn-
sense that when a witness resorts
|to falsehood, falsely manufactured evl-
|a n s e , deliberate deceit, misquotations,
jjauad the tricky use of unrelated elements
U pto produce an artificial impression, he is
W tom ediately disqualified as a competent
‘"iiwftneas or as one to be given any con­
sideration. ,
gfi'^'W hen It is found in any inquiry that
"■.fits principal witness or the one who is
making the charges against another has
■
deliberately and knowingly, wilfully and
i-malicioualy,: falsified in one or two of
, Ids statem ents or pieces of evidence and
exhibits, all. the rest of his testimony be­
comes suspected, and unworthy of con­
sideration as truth. If a witness or
plaintiff against another person has to
■resort to false, malleioas, and artificially
manufactured evidence against a person
to support one or two points in his argu­
ment, the whole of his argument m ust be
weak and all of his contentions must be
worthless, or there would be no need of
augmenting them with untruthful and
deliberately deceptive statements.
If the conspirators against AMORC
had any truthful charges to make
against AMORC and its officers, there
would be no need for them to add to
the truthful ones a number of statements,
charges, claims, and intimations that
are not only false, but deliberately and
knowingly manufactured out of the
whole cloth, and ridiculous and absurd
on. the face of them. If these conspira­
tors are deliberately falsifying, and with
trickery and maliciousness manufactur­
ing evidence in regard to some of the
charges they have made against AMORC,
their whole testimony is disqualified and
should be considered as the Courts would
consider it—wholly unworthy and evi­
dently malicious.
The defense, as presented herewith,
does not attem pt to prove the good re­
pute, integrity, sincerity, and honesty
of AMORC, for these remain unshaken,
but rather to show that in the specific
charges madeby its conspirators EVERY
VITAL. ISSUE AND CHARGE RAISED
BY THEM 13 FALSE AND 3N MOST
CASES DELIBERATELY MANUFAC­
TURED W I T H MALICIOUS FORE­
THOUGHT. THIS WILL BECOME
EVIDENT AS ONE READS EACH
AND EVERY ONE OF THE STATE­
MENTS CONTAINED IN THE FOL­
LOWING PAGES.
$ 1,000 R ew ard
THE DEFENSE C O M M I T T E E
WHICH ISSUES THIS BOOKLET
STANDS READY AND HEREWITH
AGREES AND PROMISES TO FOR­
FEIT ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
UNITED STATES CURRENCY OF ITS
OWN VOLUNTARILY SUBSCRIBED
FUNDS, TO ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO
CAN PROVE: (a) THAT THE VARI­
OUS COMMITTEES AT THE 1935
CONVENTION WERE NOT FORMED
AND DID NOT CARRY ON THEIR
WORK IN THE MANNER DESCRIBED
—5—
Df THIS BOOK, OR DID NOT RENDER
THEIR REPORTS TO THE EFFECT
AND IN THE MANNER DESCRIBED
IN THIS BOOK; (b) THAT THE
PHOTOGRAPHIC REPRODUCTIONS
OF EVIDENCE CONTAINED IN THIS
BOOK WERE NOT MADE FROM GEN­
UINE L E T T E R S , PHOTOGRAPHS,
DOCUMENTS, BOOKS, OR OTHER EX­
HIBITS ACTUALLY IN EXISTENCE
AND BEARING THE NAMES AND
DATES SHOWN; (o) THAT THE QUO­
TATIONS USED IN THIS BOOK BY
THE DEFENSE COMMITTEE FROM
VARIOUS BOOKS, LETTERS, DOCU­
MENTS, OR NEWSPAPERS ARE NOT
TRUE AND CORRECT AND TAKEN
FROM GENUINE PUBLICATIONS AC­
TUALLY IN EXISTENCE.
Heretofore the conspirators h a v e
claimed that no conarifttees were actu­
ally a t work at any convention; that the
conventions consisted at only a handful
of picked members, and not seven hun­
dred to one thousand persona from all
parts of the country; and that the evi­
dence submitted by the Defense did not
exist! But the conspirators have never
been able to prove their statements.
Let them now accept this thousand-dollar
challenge and disprove the evidence!
i
'k
The Membership Defense Committee.
The Conspiracy andThe Plot
_yfBOUT nineteen years ago the Su-
preme Council of A M O R C for
North America was confronted with the
unpleasant tasks of removing from the
editorial chair of its official magazine,
a man who had made many unusual
claims and had given very impressive
answers to the categorical questions
asked at the time of his application, for
membership. 1
Mr, Alfred Saunders of New York City
had declared himself to be an English
Freemason, a French Rosicruclan, and
an experienced editor of wide, business
and social connections. A formal and
customary inquiry was duly carried on,
tlie Investigating committee consulting
the references he had named in his ap­
plication. These individuals seemed to be
impartial and unbiased in their glowing
endorsement of Mr. Saunders. He was
admitted, like all accepted applicants, to
the Neophyte (preparatory) degrees of
the Order, and while still being tested
and tried in these preliminary sections
of the regular work, he was assigned edi­
torial supervision of the magazine.
W ithin a few months, however, a num­
ber of serious doubts were expressed by
members of AMORC, who were also
affiliated w i t h Freemasonry. Finally^
a group of men from this Order, who4|
also belonged to the A, F, & A. M. and;M
the A. A. S. R. ashed the Supreme Com i-J
oil of AMORC to make certain further‘
d
inquiries regarding Mr. Saunders.
The very first inquiry made in the .95
manner suggested revealed that Mr.it
Saunders was not a member of thejg
French Rose-Croix or Rosicruclan Order,f
but the actual "Commander to Chief" ’
a form of Freemasonic "Scottish R ites'^
generally alleged in the United Stab
to be clandestine!
Upon being examined personally
confronted with the indisputable
deuce, Mr. Saunders admitted bis direorj
torshlp of an unrecognized form
Masonry which he had concealed
the officers of AMORC. Thereupon thefL
Supreme Council, in regular session!?
voted Mm out of his position as effitbeif
and as a member of the AMORC.
♦The rites were styled the Third-third and
last degrees of the Scottish Rites of Cerce
unassociated in any way with the recog
Scottish Rites of the United States and
- 6-
All of the foregoing is history written
"into the preserved records of AMORC,
accompanied with the letters gathered
fay members of the investigating com­
m ittee (who were also Freemasons) and
*by Mr. Saunders’ own admissions. How-
1
‘m er, to the past two years, Mr,, Saunders
"'and his cohorts have claimed that he was
affiliated with any clandestine form
”«£ "Scottish Rite” ta t with an organiza­
tion widely recognized in foreign lands,
known as the ‘’Ancient and Primitive
Rites of Memphis and Missmim.” This
^latter d a ta is wholly false as can be
^**en by the official stationery of Mr.
SjBsnnders’ unrecognized body.
psIjA few days after his dismissal, Mr.
pSaapdera called upon the chief officers
td f AMORC and claimed that their action
. deprived Mm of a very profitable
that he had under way and
interfered with his activities in
"lodges" of Mb Demean form
iSjMEaabitty,. and that he would devote
■>wmai»der of his life to destroying
_
■attaching the character of Its
and testifying against its chief
utive, H. Spencer Lewis.1
: a threat was considered trite and
............ _ AMORC, and so it would have
fjfesea, if. In, the course of events, two
M e t individuals— heading other small
fcfMlesophieal groups calling ttsm selves
ipRonterueiaB"—had not been tempted to
in Mr. Saunders' attacks and atti-
the very aid they needed to help
■create attacks on what they con-
a rival body.
two bodies were the "Phllosoph-
JPubhshlng Company Royal Frater-
rio f RosScrnciaas" operated by a
ior Dutch farm er of Quakertowa,
known by the name of “Dr." R.
Clymer,1 and the “Rosleru-
_________ship” of Oceanside, California,
W e eted by the late Max Heindel. These
saw In the rapidly growing, au­
nt and authentic AMORC organ!-
i a serious challenger to the rtdlcu-
pretensions offered fay their small
Despite their claims to being
written to H. Spencer Lewis and
Mr. Saunders signature In the
years have consistently demon-
thla- threat in various forms. This
e and others have seen these letters
a number of years.
large number
a for Ids Utile
SQymer has used a
“ ' end assorted names » , .
■
>
ing company In thft yearsj
recently none at these names even
■resembled tbe true name of tbe Rost.
■Order as found in all ancient records
devoted solely to humanitarian and lov­
ing purposes with a “clean heart and
sane mind,” exemplifying the “goodness
and tolerance of the Great Master,"
these two organizations forgot their
Weals and so-called Roslcrucian spirit,
and saw in Mr. Saunders’ malicious at-
tacks and campaign of destruction an
opportunity. They found it convenient to
give credence to this self-avowed de­
stroyer of character and reputation,
who claimed that he could produce “evi­
dence” that AMORC was a fraud and a
pretense, and that its officers were im­
posters and deceivers In many and varied
ways.
Politics often make strange bed-fel­
lows, and it was surprising to see with
what cunning and alacrity Mr. Saunders
united these two rival and disagreeing
bodies into allies of his campaign by
furnishing them with absurd, ammuni­
tion. Unaware at first that Mr, Saunders
was deliberately deceiving them, they
were, nevertheless, willing to use bis
destructive ammunition in any manner
that might further their interests; then
becoming aware of his unreliability, they
cast out of their alliance the open as­
sistance of Mr. Saunders, but trusted
th at he had transm itted to someone, pos­
sibly one of them, the evidence he
claimed to have.
Thus the two little publishing societies
found themselves in the midst of a cam­
paign of vilification, destruction, and
Blander against AMORC, without the evi­
dence or facts to support it. Mr. Clymer
probably susplcioned that his hated rival
book concern, the “RosicrUcian Fellow­
ship,” had secretly bargained with Mr,
Saunders for the evidence; and the “Fel­
lowship” could have had much evidence
to indicate that Mr. Clymer had out-
martialled them and secured it for per­
sonal use.
To AMORC the situation was Huffing
for a number of years. It said little of
the battle being waged by the two
against one. AMORC did nothing but
occasionally deny, with dignity and con­
servatism, the most serious of the Slan­
derous or critical remarks of the two
groups, or of Mr. Saunders, who con­
tinued his campaign as an independent
destructioniat.
This attitude on the part of AMORC.
however, was a serious mistake, even
though it was adopted with the beat in­
tentions. Mr. Clymer, as well as Mr.
Saunders, became bolder and bolder in
the manufacture of fictitious charges
—7—
against AMORC and the invention of
false “evidence." Latter after letter was
written by Mr, Saunders to newspaper
“letter columns," to fraternal magazine
forums, to public officials, and scores of
others—each letter caatradieting some
fundamental point-la previous letters,
but generally giving expression to newly
concocted “discoveries” detrimental to
AMORC. Mr, Clymer, oa the other tend,
owning- a small, antiquated, but work­
able printing press, Issued pamphlet
after pamphlet tor tea years, each pre­
tending to contain his "discoveries" of
the evils to be found In AMORC and
gradually libelling the personal character
and reputation of AMORC executives.
Thus the plot originated by Mr. Saun­
ders as a means of revenge, was being
evolved and carried out with growing
elaborateness and increasing malicious­
ness.
Month by month the strength of
AMORC wns being increased by its pub­
lication of the tree history of the an­
cient Rosiemcian Brotherhood end the
real facts of its philosophy, aims, and
purposes. These facts, incidentally, were
disconcerting- to the other groups of
“Rosicruciaas” for what AMORC said
and proved in its literature did not agree
with the opposing claims «f the others.
Bow the matter would have ended no
one knows, but in 1030 Mr. Saunders
found a new ally, a man by the name of
Smith, living in California, who became
» "clearing house" for Saunders, Clymer
and the others, by uniting all of their
separate and incompatible charges and
claims, gathering and inventing new and
startling facts and carrying on the
vilification and slander to Ms own name
as an “unbiased worker in behalf of the
gullible pubic who should be protected
against the impostures of AMORC." •
He was furnished with all the "evi­
dence” that each of the "high contract­
ing parties” had accumulated, supplied
with some money and the promise of
support. He, in turn, secured the help
of one Baines in Canada who mailed
the slanderous matter from a Canadian
Post Office in order “to avoid conflict
with the rules and regulations of the
XT. S. Post Office.”
Thus a real conspiracy was evolved,
with all the ancient and "honorable” de­
vices of those who make a business of
wilfully and deliberately slandering and
libelling others with malicious and false
charges. -
Neither Mr. CSymer, Mr. Saunders, nor
the Fellowship knew precisely what Mr.
Smith intended to do, nor how he carried
out his plans, or what "evidence” he had
secured from each point of his alliance.
When, however, AMORC brought this
conspiracy campaign into a Superior
Court of California,,.®?. Smith reluc­
tantly admitted his part in the conspir­
acy and often cowered behind the state­
ment that he refused to answer ques­
tions because his answer "would tend to
incriminate him of felony.” The evi­
dence—
-real evidence this time—secured
by the Sheriff in Mr, Smith's home,
revealed his contact with Saunders,
Baines, Clymer, the Rosicrucian Fellow­
ship and several others.
Smith was perpetually enjoined by the
Court from further partieipatiim in the
conspiracy and enjoined from further
distributing letters, p a m p h l e t s and
printed matter prepared by the conspira­
tors for distribution. This order was
made by the Court after Smith admitted
in open Court that he could not prove
any of the sinister or serious charges
that had been made against AMORC or
its officers and after he had failed to
establish any good motive for Ms wide­
spread attacks. What his real motive
may have been may be guessed by later
developments.
The Climax
The Court decision against Smith, Ciy-
mer, Baines, and their aOies, did not end
the campaign, however. Mr. CSymer;
claimed that since he lived in. a different •
-
State, the California derision did not
affect him, Mr. Saunders was found te/
have a very unsavory police and social;
record and at once withdrew from the
public dissemination of Ms attacks, and;,
Daines claimed immunity because of Ms;
Canadian residence. ■
/
The Court decision did one tiling, how­
ever. It caused each of the conspirators
to feel-suspicious. All behoved that some--'
one had been consciously or unoon-;;;
grioualy careless in guarding the secret!
' activities of their inner correspondence.
Saunders accused Daines and wrote a
number of letters deploring Daines’/
stupidity; Clymer blamed Saunders as '»->
"falsifier," especially since Saunders had-
never produced one lota, of the "trunk-/;
ful” of evidence winch he originally.-;
claimed to have. Smith alleged that;.
Corner had been “too stupid to guard '
his actions."
From letters received it would seem,'/
to 'the best of our belief, that Daine*!
8— •'*
wrote vague and unsagnid notes to
AMORC Intimating that he had cleverly
decayed ati the others in the unholy
alliance to send all the accumulated
-•evidence’*to him for copying, and that
now he was ready, for a certain sum
of money “covering Ms expense* and
ijnss of time from his Important business
affaire" to -come to California and show
to AMORC all the documents and "evi­
dence he had in Ms possession.*
•' Whether Clymer and Saunders as well
as Smith ever learned of the offer made
by Daises*
1to AMORC or not Is not
known, hut they discontinued their asso­
ciation with him la their future activities
and even wrote letters warning others to
be guarded in their correspondence with
him, and at once proceeded to work
separately. ;
' But, conspiracies need spies, and law­
yers, and stupid “tools." Therefore S y -
sner and Saunders contacted an attorney
;%* California, and the attorney won the
support or aid of & disgruntled ex-
cmployee of AMORC who thereafter
signed Ms name to new, absolutely false
and criminally libelous statements. It is
generally rumored that this ex-employee
Kiaeeka as Ma reward, permanent employ­
ment sudor a reorganized AMORC, con­
trolled by those now attacking the Order
and particularly Its officers. It Is known
that the attorney involved baa openly
stated that he expects to collect a fab­
ulous fee from the reorganized Order.
Thus the situation existed at the be­
ginning of the year 1935, One attorney
claiming that he would see that the
wrecked AMORC was reorganized and
good positions given to certain todivid-
' taria it they would help him do the
■wrecking; and Mr. Clymer and Ms tor-
seer associates uniting to issuing three
new pamphlets against the AMORC in
the hope of not only destroying AMORC,
..tart of so completely disqualifying It that
-an one could re-organize it as a future
rival to Ms little organization.
•The situation was becoming unbear­
able not only to the officers of AMORC, 1
hut to all the thousands of members in
■
essay State and Province of North
:America. At both the 1934 and 1935
«m w i conventions of AMORC the hun­
dreds of delegates and representatives at
**1 a * time, Baines was still without say
ent as far as our Investigations Hi­
re do not know what his purpose may
___ ___jn in -wanting to show tlia nrnamUe-
taawtf vvMenee to AMORC officials. They -re-
1 to malt# any negotiations--with him.
AMORC VOTED UNANIMOUSLY1 to
put an end to the malicious campaign
by appointing a number of voluntarily
formed committees to the task of se­
curing the facts—the truth—and expos­
ing it.
Thus came about the official reports
containing the surprising facts and real
“evidence" introduced in the 1935 Con­
vention held from July 14th to 20th in
the city of San Jose, California, and
unanimously adopted by all present with
the recommendation that the facts be
published in mdefensive book by AMORC
for circulation among Its members and
friends, or all who had received the de­
famatory matter issued by the- conspir­
ators.
W ho A re the Conspirators?
It is quite customary in all established
departments of civil Investigation to turn
the spotlight upon the source of com­
plaint—the eomptateer, the critic, or the
one who is making the charges. Very
often this reveals a motive or incentive
for complaint that nullifies the charges
made.
Certainly no report of a complete In­
vestigation of the ch afes made against
AMORC should be considered unless it
included some facts regarding the char­
acters originating them.
It ia a notable fact that although the
charges mad© against AMORC for the
paat nineteen years have been couched
ia words to make it appear that the
actual members of the organization were
dissatisfied'with the administration and
administrators of AMORC, heverfhCIeasl
all of the creative, inventive and schem­
ing members of the conspiracy are non-
members of AMORC, while the active,
actual members of the organization
have unanimously supported, endorsed,
and approved toe administration and ad­
ministrators by vote and enthusiastic
resolution a t each and every annual con­
vention Of toe AMORC,
If, than, the thousands Of members
within the organization (who, naturally,
would feel the greatest eSect of any mal­
administration o r misrepresentation)
have consistently failed in the past nine­
teen years to take any part to the cre­
ation of the charges made, there must
be soma reason why those wholly on
the outside seek to disrupt the organi­
zation. Heye is where the spotlight la
helpful, If turned upon the true lustiga-
tons and active Managers o£ the long
conspiracy*
M r. Alfred Saunders
We have already described this indi­
vidual to some extent in the History of
the Plot. This man with a serious police
record in England (see the Birmingham
Daily Post, Birmingham, England, for
Wednesday, July IS, 1908) was not only
the leader of an alleged- clandestine
Freemasonie body in New York, h it ha
openly claimed and artfully admitted
that he had “a Rosicrucian organization”
of his own, in embryo, and sought to
introduce it in America, under the title
of "Temple of Neith,” which term he
used in his correspondence of the past.
“Dr.” R. Swinburne Clymer
A German or Dutch printer who dis­
covered years ago th at it was more
profitable to spend an of his time a t the
type case.than in fam ing, and leaving
Ms hobby of printing to spare-Ome in­
dulgences in his am ateur press shop;
especially when it enables him to foster
and glorify some of the weirdest notions
that a human mind ever harbored- Hia
fondness for titles, for self-appointed
and self-devised positions of "eminent
authority” supported by diplomas and
charters of Ms own creation and print­
ing, has made its indelible im print on
the records of the Federal Government.
His craze for appropriating or simulat­
ing the names and emblems of other
organizations is second only to Us fan­
tastic love for writing threatening and
“challenging” letters to every person or
organization th at seems to he an ob­
stacle to the impossible goal he has set
for himself—“Grand M aster of the World
and the Islands of the Sea." (!)
Yeans ago he invented (in his mind)
great medical colleges or colleges of
therapeutics, and offered diplomas to
those who had no medical training hut
did have some money, it is alleged by
toe.American Medical Association in its
“Journal” for December 15, 1923. It is
even claimed by this Association that
Mr. Clymer issued to himself a Diploma
■with the degree of “Dr." sometime be­
fore- his “.College” was actually func­
tioning in a small-“Post Office Box.”
At any rate, the *
*
Journal” alleges
that when the Federal Governmentclosed
up various fraudulent “diploma mffla,”
Mr. Clymer was one of those to be found
guilty. All of this evidence,of fraud was
introduced a t a hearing before the Sec­
retary of the Commonwealth Of'Penn­
sylvania again in 1984.
At other times he has Invented strange
medicines and mystic "charms” or sxnu-
lets, and has printed circulars describing
and offering for sale strange "remedies'*
claimed to do things which medical and
scientific men have proven absurd and
ridiculous.
Hia latest and most astonishing con­
viction about himself and his powers, is
that he is the “successor” to a man by
the -name of "Dr.” Beverly Randolph,
who Clymer says was the originator of
America’s first Rosicrucian organization.
As the “successor” to Randolph, this
farm er-printer believes that he has in­
herited a number of titles which Ran­
dolph used only in a novel—a booh of
fiction—and never token seriously by
any of its readers In the 19th century.
. "Dr.” Clymer has, admittedly, suc­
ceeded in printing and selling about one
thousand copies of his own “Rosicrucian”
books to which he attem pts to give his
very poor and unlearned description
of the Kosicrucia&s. His ignorance of
ancient Rosicrucian “landmarks,” sym­
bols, terms, principles, and ideals is so
extensive and colossal that he actually
takes symbols of old pagan cults and
adopts them, and does not know where
to contact a stogie genuine Rosncrucian
center in Europe.
But, “Dr.” Clymer does know how to
threaten everyone with more of his
printed m atter in an attem pt to add a
few more members to the group of
gullible persons who have joined his
"Rosicrucian” society conducted from
the little farm house just outside of a
Pennsylvania town.
This is his great delusion: “If I can
break down the faith of thousands who
are now members of that organization
known as AMORC, some of them may
believe that I am their saviour and ac­
cept my claims to Rosicrucian authority
and join my classes, buy my books and
eventually secure one of my Royal Fra­
ternity ‘Diplomas’.”
Since “Dr.” Clymer has never been a
member of AMORC, is unacquainted
with its toner workings, claims to have
the "only true Rosicrucian Temple of
toe whole world in his farm house," and
has been in so much legal difficulty in
the past, his motive in attacking
AMORC may be justly questioned and
gravely suapicioned by any fair mind—
*
_ _ _ _ _ . |
•See Photo Exhibit# Mbs. 2 and 3.
— 10—
as St has been in cotut actions and con­
ventions in the past fifteen years.
The other members of the campaign
to assist in injuring AMORC are:
(a) An attorney frequently involved
in directing critical attacks against in­
dividuals and corporations, and recently
proclaimed in an official State inquiry
as “the moat stupid man in CaMferaia"
by one of the members of the committee.
He has written tetters to various per­
sons in which he has repeated almost
verbatim, dither in his own letters or in
tetters enclosed, the charges spread by
the campaign of maliciousness con­
ducted by the conspirators. The Com­
mittee further finds that this attorney
has a personal, financial motive back of
hi# activities in this respect.
tb) A young man engaged as a gro­
cery clerk.at times in California, and
at other times as a messenger for others
of the critics, going from one city to an­
other securing signatures from new
AMORC members under the pretense
Butt the said petition is to aid the
AMORC administration. He is a mere
toot in the hands of the others and has
admitted to investigation committees
that he really has no criticism to make
of the AMORC officers "whom, he
loves," but nevertheless signs the mali­
cious and slanderous letters prepared by
Ms elders, in order that they may be
free of responsibility.
{c and d) Two men living in Col-
ittdo, who, as low degree members of
AMORC, never having met any of the
(fleers of AMORC, nor ever having
ieea any of its administration records
hr documents, were induced to make
affidavits to the effect that "they knew
and believed” that the administration
ittairs of AMORC in California were
Mt&O, dishonest, unconstitutional and
aaaBcioiis in intent and result, etc. With
■kit.false charges prepared by Saunders,
E$ymer, and others, they wore used as
Swb for a, new form of attack upon
AMORC in 1984. They were probably
|p d ,,to believe that they were aiding
in "bettering the AMORC’s deplorable
conditions*’ as one of them claims to
the investigators who closed in on his
vacillating arguments, or to "rid Amer­
ica of a terrible fraud that is keeping
the citizens from enjoying peace and
happiness," as “Dr," Clymer contends
in Ms lame explanation for his "un­
biased activity” (!) of fifteen years.
“Dr.” CJymer’s Printed Charges
and the M anufactured Evidence
As we have explained, "Dr." Clymer
adopted, “bait, hook and sinker,” all the
false and malicious charges originally
Invented by Saunders, the originator of
the Hot. But these soon became weak,
for m time passed, each month and year
proved the falsity of most of them and
“Dr," Clymer was forced to invent new
charges and manufacture the false evi­
dence to support them.
His last attack consisted of three large
nondescript pamphlets printed piece­
meal by him in his little shop, and is­
sued for nation-wide circulation in July
Of 1985 just before the annual Conven­
tion of AMORC members and delegates.
These pamphlets were intended to dis­
courage the hundreds planning to go to
the Convention and to tem pt newspapers
and magazines to use the highly in­
flammable charges as the basis for ex­
travagant exposes.
Every old, new and imaginable charge
and malicious idea th at was capable
of expressing itself in the minds of
Saunders, Clymer, or their cohorts, was
paraded in grand array in these books
with more venom, hate and wicked fal­
sity than at any other time of the whole
Plot. “Dr.” Clymer signed these books
with his own name, and anticipating
a wholesale destruction of AMORC'a in­
tegrity, he boasted of his stupid and
contradictory compilation with the hope
that it would bo of benefit to all man­
kind.
i
What AMORCMembers Believe
At our annual Conventions of to*
AMORC held in San Jose, California,
during* the month of July, there have
been assembled for one entire week the
highest representatives of the Order in
North America such ,as:
Regional Grand Officers.
■Lodge and Chapter Masters and Offi­
cers.
Deputy Grand Masters,
Grand Councilors from Nine Districts.
Inspectors-General.
District Commissioners.
Special Delegates and Members.
These representatives have come from
every section of North America and
from some foreign districts as is shown
by the roil call taken at each Con­
vention.
For many months before the Con­
vention & held, the official magazine
that goes to every member, “The Eosi-
erueian D igest/' carries notices Inviting
every Regional Grand Lodge, every
Lodge and Chapter and- branch of our
work, to appoint official delegates or
representatives to come to the Conven­
tion In behalf of their local members.
Every delegate, representative and mem­
ber Is urged to be present in order, to
participate in the making of recommen­
dations, suggestions, comments or crit­
icisms. In these official notices the
membership generally is urged to pre­
pare its comments, criticisms, suggestions
and recommendations in written form,
and to either bring them to the Con­
vention in person or submit them to
their own local Inspector-General or
Grand Councilor, D istrict Commissioner,
Lodge officer, or delegate, in order that
these comments, criticisms, suggestions
and recommendations may be read be­
fore the Convention and voted upon.
A most sincere and honest attem pt is
made by the administration of AMORC
to have its National Convention truly
representative of the membership of
the Order and to give them every oppor­
tunity in a democratic manner to ex­
press itself and to bring before the Con­
vention and before the officers of the
administration every helpful, construc­
tive suggestion or recommendation, and
v
every vital criticism, and every import­
ant ccrasideration of every point and
part of toe work of toe organization,
including its administration.
Convention Committees
■At each Convention for many years
the elected Chairman of the Convention,
drawn from among toe rank and file of
membership, appoints six or seven out­
standing business men, attorneys, news­
paper men, or educators, as Chairmen
of important committees, such as:
1. Welfare and Administration Com­
mittee.
"2. Grievance Committee.
3. Resolutions Committee.
4. Credential and Authenticity Com­
mittee.
8, Auditing or Financial Committee.
6. The Next Year Convention Com­
mittee.
After appointing these committees, or
sometimes uniting two of them into one
committee, toe Chairman announces that
any registered delegate or officer present
a t the Convention, regardless of his
standing by grade in toe Order, may
volunteer to join any one of the com­
m ittees and participate in its activities
or demand certain activities and tores-.;
ligations on toe part of said committees, ;.
No attem pt is made by .the officers of
toe adm inistration to lim it or interfere/.'
with the free and voluntary joining of-'
any one of these committees on the part.;
of anyone attending toe Convention.
A t toe close of each Convention, toes'
Im perator and the officers of toe
ministration have asked from toe p
form whether anyone present a t the CanU
rention was prohibited, restrained, Or i
any way influenced to not Joining
committee that he may have selected '
work with, or prevented in any ;
from securing any of toe informat*
any facto, any records, and data,-
would have been helpful to him or
in solving any of the problems of
organization or overcoming any o f.
possible errors of administration or o"
activities. A t no time, a t any of tea-.
Conventions, has any member ever stated
—IS—
Sblidy from the floor of the Coiwsai-
n, ox privately—so far as any case
can be found—that he or she was pro­
hibited or prevented to a free, demo­
cratic expression of anything they de­
sired in these regards.
Membership Defense Committee
Two years ago a number of members
living in California, having "
the activities of the conspiracy as made
m anifest in Court actions which have
ended victoriously in all proceedings to
date for AMORC, decided voluntarily
and without any recommendation, from
the organization, to form a “Membership
Defense Committee,*' or to other words,
a Defense Committee representing the
membership and not the executive or ad­
m inistrative officers. The purpose of this
committee was to demand from the Su­
preme Grand Dodge the right, or secure
the privilege, of learning the names of
every one of the D istrict Commissioners
and local representatives of the Order
throughout the country, dr to have the
. names and addresses of any member
"living in any locality, if deemed neces-
; saxy, and to appoint certain officers of
the Defense Committee to secure from
.‘Ttvery Regional Grand Dodge, Dodge or
^Chapter, a legal paper of authorization
appointing the Membership Defense
' Committee to represent them in any in-
: vestigation or any legal action, or any
'.plan that they might find advisable,
feted to secure from the rank and file of
.^membership to their own way and
•through their own means of commum-
cation any data,' any comments, criti-
rccommendationa or suggestions
would tend to improve the admin-
and activities of AMORC or
ANY TENDENCY OR DE-
ON THE PART OF THE MEM-
SEIF GKNERADDY TO HAVE
CHANGES MADE IN THE AD-
„TXON OR GENERAL AC-
OF THE ORGANIZATION.
This Membership Defense Committee
“ " itself to defend the members
their rights against the machina-
and deliberate interference on the
of any conspirators.
fP ’
P
The Conspiracy Campaign
w as found through the first two
iltocttons instigated by the etnspir-
Is-and which turned into victories
, that the complainants were
to prove to the Courts of
'an d elsewhere, that they—a
mere handful of six or seven member*—
were authorized to represent the mem­
bership at large In its attacks upon the
administration and general control of
tiie organization. They contended, to
complicated legal verbiage in the form
of affidavits which they presented to
the Court, that the membership gen­
erally was restless, dissatisfied, unhappy
and in open rebellion against the admin­
istration of the Order and Its Board of
Directors, and th at each or every suit
that they had brought or intended to
bring was being brought to the name of
all the members, and by authority of
the members.
The things that these conspirators
demanded. If granted by the court or
courts, would have caused an inter­
ference in the regular mailing of the
lectures each week, to the preparation
of any further secret lectures, lessons,
or monographs, in the carrying out of
any of the secret rituals, welfare ac­
tivities, dr other ideals and purposes of
the organization. Even the judges in
the courts saw th at this would be unfair
and a grave Injustice to the members
a t large unless the membership itself
demanded It.
Since a t every one of the previous
National Conventions the voluntary com­
mittees referred to above had reported
th at there was no dissension, no rebel­
lion, no serious criticism or demands,
and since the reports of the committees
read in open session of the Conventions
were voted upon by every member
present and unanimously subscribed to
without a dissenting voice, it was ap­
parent that the few dissenters did not
represent the membership a t large, nor
any portion of it, except possibly one
or two ex-members who had been sus­
pended previously from the Order for
various good and sufficient reasons; and
that the remainder or active conspira­
tors were those unconnected with the
Order but having personal, mercenary
reasons for desiring an almost complete
suspension of all of the AMORC ac­
tivities.
What the Committees Did
A t each Convention, each one of the
committees was allowed to Auction
freely and without any interference, as
was testified to in their sworn affidavits
a t the close of each Convention. The
Welfare and Administration Committee
was permitted to examine every book,
every financial record, every membership
18 —
record, every felt of correspondence la
the files of the organization and in its
safes and vaults dating back to the
year 1916.
The Grievance Committee was fam ­
ished with every letter, every pamphlet,
every printed or written criticism,
charge, complaint, affidavit, or insinu­
ation made by either the conspirators
or any member or outsider, and to take
each complaint, criticism, or grievance
and run it down in its essence, nature,
and purpose, to determine whether it
was well founded, or false and libelous
as part of a conspiracy, or worthy of
consideration.
The Auditing Committee was allowed
to call a auditors, certified public ac­
countants, and others well qualified, from
outside of the organization to audit the
books and records, financial system, bank
books, and everything else pertaining
to the financial and business end of
AMORC, and to examine the regular
audits of AMORC that have been made
year by year since 1916 by certified
public accountants and auditors.
The other committees were allowed to
work in. the same maimer. Cablegrams
and messages were sent abroad to verify
certain statem ents or claims, these com­
munications being sent to non-members
and unbiased persons who could give re­
liable information. Special letters were
sent to various places. Historical records
were searched % persons communicated
with fey telephone, and every means
was used by these committees to make
their work thorough and unbiased with­
out any control or restriction on the
part of the administration of AMORC.
The Convention Reports
All of the reports of the various com­
mittees read to the Convention at its
official session were In the form of affi­
davits signed by every member on each
committee, sworn to before a Notary
and then certified to by the Chairman of
the Convention. When read to the Con­
vention, these reports were adopted,
paragraph by ' paragraph, often with
long and tedious explanations accom­
panying each paragraph, so there could
be no mistake oa the part of anyone
in understanding what the reports con­
tained. It is a notable fact th at in none
of the Conventions has there been a
single dissenting voice in connection with
any of the reports read, inasmuch as
every member present a t the Conven­
tion had an opportunity to Investigate
the reports during the process of their
making: Bach Convention, therefore, has
gone on record with an unanimous vote,
and in the form of a sworn affidavit,
that it has never found any of the
charges, complaints, insinuations and in­
timations of the conspirators to be true
or based on truth and fact, or other­
wise than MALICIOUSLY LIBELOUS,
SLANDEROUS, AND DELIBERATELY
INJURIOUS. Each Convention has vol­
untarily passed a resolution unanimously
voted upon without a single dissenting
voice approving the administration’s past
year's activities, expressing confidence
in the administration end the admini­
strators, and pledging its loyal support
to the Board of Directors, their chief
executives.
The Astonishing Facts
From all of this is revealed the aston­
ishing fact that it is not the members
within the organization—those who have
the utmost a t stake, who are financially
supporting it and have a right to receive
adequate returns, nor those who are the
most familiar with all of its' activities
and have the greatest facility in know­
ing and determining what is going on—
that make the charges against AMORC'
and its adm inistrators. The charges come
exclusively from those who are outside
of the organization, who have had no
opportunity and no means of learning
the real facts of what is going on within
the organization, but who are either
interested in so-called rival organizations
or who are anxious to promote some­
thing of their own making to take the
place of AMORC if it can. This aston­
ishing situation, that the members of
the organization are wholly satisfied,
and that a few on the outside seek to
destroy it and claim to be doing it on
behalf of the members, constitutes one
of the most peculiar situations that has
ever, been placed before a Court of law
or inquiry.
The Courts’ Decisions
For this reason, in each and every
Court action that has been started by
the conspirators in connection with a
definite issue and based upon false
charges against the organization, the
Court has ruled that inasmuch as the
conspirators have so t been able to sup­
port their contentions and that it would
—14—
be an injustice to the general member­
ship to grant what the conspirators have
demanded, tbs court has refused to sus­
tain the injunctions sought by the con­
spirators and perm itted the administra­
tion of AMORC to continue its activities
without interruption.
In one other case brought tor the con­
spirators, the conspirators have con­
stantly sought a postponement of the
case until more than a year had passed,
and at the present tim e is awaiting
trial. If the conspirators were sure of
the soundness and truth of their mali­
cious charges, they would not be so
agreeable to postponements, and would
have dona.their utmost to secure a de­
cision within the shortest possible time.
“Dr.” Clymer’s Newest Charges
Not satisfied with being a party to one
Court inquiry in which he was named
as a co-conspirator, and wherein the
judge rules against the conspiracy and
warns the conspirators not to continue
their activities, Clymer has persisted in
accepting from Saunders and others cer­
tain false and maliciously deceptive
statem ents about AMORC and its ad­
ministration sad HAS INVENTED a
score of other false charges of Ma own,
and has inserted these in books and'
pamphlets throughout the United States,
Canada, and elsewhere.
The crux of his campaign of malicious
inquiry was attempted fust a few weeks
before the 19S5 Convention, whoa be
sent scurrilous pamphlets to represen­
tatives, secretaries, Masters, and officers
of our Chapters and branches, and to
newspaper writers, publishers and others
who might make m eat of his malicious
statem ents to injure the organization,
and to prevent a peaceful, harmonious
Convention in July of 1935. Scores of
copies of these books were rapidly for­
warded to Headquarters by tom e who
received them, and they were distributed
by the administration officers among the
delegate members and officers attending
the Convention in order th at everyone
present might be fam iliar with the new­
est charges made by Clymer and thereby
be prepared properly to investigate them
through their various committees and
independently.
The Membership Defense Committee,
on the other hand, proceeded at once
with its many members present from all
parts of the country to organize itself
into rapid action and to not only inves­
tigate the charges made by Clymer but
to call personally upon some of the con­
spirators and learn from them their mo­
tives or purposes.
Astonishing Results
Throughout the whole Convention week
tor many hours each morning, afternoon
and evening the committee on "Welfare
and Administration,” the committee on
“Grievances,'' and the “Membership De­
fense Committee,” totalling over' one
hundred members on an three commit­
tees, searched through all the records,
files, bookkeeping system, bank books,
audits, correspondence, official docu­
ments, and everything else pertaining
to the administration and activities of
the organization from the year 1916 to
1935, in an attem pt to find the least
verification of the charges mads by
Clymer or to disprove them as falsa
and malicious.
In its interviews with some of the
conspirators, the committee found mer­
cenary motives and even intimations
that a t least one of them would abandon
his activities against the Order if he
were offered a good position on the staff
of AMORC a t a good salary! Another
intimated that if certain personal and
mercenary things were complied with
to his satisfaction, he would sign a paper
withdrawing from cooperation in the
plan to involve AMORC in further legal
actions. Even Mr. Clymer's motives were
found to be highly colored in nature and
quality as well as in the tricky use of
words and phrases.
The Committees’ Reports
This booklet, then, contains a sum­
mary of the reports made by these
committees to the form of sworn affi­
davits signed by all of the large number
of persons on the committee and voted
upon unanimously without a dissenting
voice by all of the officers, councilors,
enmmissionerB, inspectors, delegates, and
members present a t (he Convention.
THE ANSWERS '
to
THE FALSE CHARGES
In a very involved and badly con­
ceived "Preface” to the largest of his
1985 books, "Dr.” Clymcr says that "In
spite of any and aU appearances to the
contrary, we have no malicious feeling
against Mr. Lewis; we hold no grudge
and entertain no personal animosity
against Mm. . , , We have experienced
no personal delight in the use -of the
harsh terms and odious adjectives neces­
sary to accurately describe his activi­
ties.”
Yet, in that same preface, he cans Mr.
Lewis a "successful deceiver, a vile im­
poster, a clever charlatan, a crafty sor­
cerer, a pilfering charlatan," who is
guilty of "fraudulent activities and
wicked practises, illegal practises, de­
ceptive wiles, insidious trickery, etc.”
Note that "Dr.” Clymer says he is
accurately describing m atters In his
pamphlets. He constantly harps on
“truth, precise terms, carefully worded
descriptions, honest, straight-forward
statements, no deception, no evasions,
no partial, quotations, no falsehoods,”
Well, let us see what "Dr,” Clymer
says in Ms honest, rugged style and ex­
amine the precise and honest EVIDENCE!
he offers.
Herewith follows a brief summary of
the principal charges falsely made by
Mr. Clymer in term s Kid phrases de­
liberately twisted and distorted to read
to the public with the utmost disad­
vantage to AMORC, and intended to be
injurious to the organization and its ad­
ministrators.
Number Oae
Clymer claims th at the first Kosicrts-
dana to come to America did not come
in 1994 but that a Mr. Randolph estab­
lished the first Rosierucian foundation In
America in the Nineteenth Century.
Arthur Edward Waite, the eminent
Masonic historian of London who has
written many books on Rosicmcian and
Masonic history, and who Clymer admits
is a good authority, condemns Randolph
as a self-deceived pretender whose "sex
teachings” brought him into trouble
with the Government and who committed
suicide before he was completely cleared
of these charges, and whose vague wan­
derings and inane writings could never
have been any part of real Rosieru-
cianism at' any time. And he quotes
Randolph as saying. In one of Ran­
dolph's own books, that everything he
had said about Roslerucianism he had
made up out of his own mind or con­
sciousness.
The committee found th a t in no hiafl
torfeal record of the Rosicruclan OrdsjK;
published in Europe, either by W aite.!""'
Fra. Wittemana, a member of the .
gian Senate and as eminent hist
or in any encyclopaedia, was Randolp
name mentioned as an organizer •
leader of Rosicniciaa activities.* !
To prove Ms false Malms that;
early Romcrucians of 1694 who c:
Philadelphia from Europe were not
crucians, Clymer publishes in his
phlets an extract from a book by ,
Sachse, who was a descendant of
early Roslerucians, a Materials, mi
of a number of American historical
•In most of these historical books or
the AMORC of North America la mend,
the true Rosicruclan Order. See also a
Sect of Rosicrucien in the Revised 14th
Encyclopaedia Britannic*, the New
ttonal Encyclopaedia, the Nelson’s ~
iopaedle, the Mo
Encyclopaedia, the Modern Recycle
Americana, th e W ebster's bunbridei
sag, etc,v all of which describe_A
utterly to mention Randolph or <
16 —
. • * — w ,a,»r>
i ii SiM Si
T
i -" ._ , -- >.'•.■■-*-S,<> .£« ** ■
>
•?'; «’ '» »"
■".. V■
. . 1
I ■
■J i :" SCJit-iilrWioa»t|jUB*t 3«wrtt^- .■
■
': ■
■" ' :■
■ .;
"- , »r >u«£-•».-<i b “ i' '" .■■%'■-. -
1 '
3
. t 'M'Wl «<4t ..
- - V ? * r — ^ ^ *
^V/'.?i;“» iV-i!'’ * ;■*-■$* r V*Vr i'-':■*w - v . o « •■
’
i:*
’ -r v
is
S S I
PjPTBbFS II ? t SK ;
! " ’•>*■■' - \ V " * :'l‘" r * * </*’* ''^
■ • • ; i 5 - j‘; .i- &**% ■ ■
m
i J - M
^ Y ; , , ^ Y > v > ? r ' ( & # & , } * ■ i
J rL * -
'\50w above is a reproduction of a letter proving that Alfred H. Saunders was “Com-1 I
er-in-Chief" in 1915 and 1916, of a clandestine “Scottish Rite" organisation■
— '
.. a “Memphis-Misraim" body, as Clyaer and Saunders now claim. Freemasons s
4
readily note the “tricky" difference between the emblem of the “Eagle" used on f:
’{.stationery and the genuine emblem of the true, recognised “A. A. S. R." Note .,:
-that this clandestine body had its “Grand Orient" (!) in New York City-—not !’
“
■
adie recognised Supreme Councils are located.
E*hib»l- No.I : '*
«
n
p
-6
6
£
i’•
1st
— 17 —
The (arm-house and barn in Pennsylvania, owned by Qymer—“Grand Master of all
Rosicrudans" for all the World! The house is his only "headquarters" (or his "large
organisation."
The vacant bam is pointed out to visitors as the "Supreme Temple" of his
organisation. These photos were taken in July, 1935. Doter5 of visitors to his “head­
quarters" have taken such photos and many more. They tell the truth about Oyster's
claims for a great organisation, temples, grottos, large conventions, conclaves, etc. The
symbol shown above is from the corner of Clymer's “Rodcrucian” stationery. He says
it is a true R, C. symbol. Who ever heard of the Satanic snake being entwined around
the Divine Rosy Cross, or of the Egyptian Beetle taking the place or the Sacred Rose,
or. the Cross;
Exhibit* Ho. 2
19
The above is a photo of one of the page* in the book by Sachse, reproducing one of , 3
the Rosictuciar, Manuscripts found in the possession of the mystic community in rI
Eastern Pennsylvania during the years 1694-1800. This manuscript is identical with i 1
symbolic hermetic, alchemical charts found in many European Rosictucian records. : I
Exhibit* No.A.
—W—
i?- ; Another reproduction of a page front the hook by Sachse, proving that the pietirticaf
mystics of early Pennsylvania were Rosicrudans. This page of secret Rostcrodan phil­
osophy was one of many found in their well-preserved instruction papers. If they
were not Rosicrucian mystics how did they come to have such secret papers—and many
Rosicrueian jewels, emblems, and symbols?
ErxHi btV No. 5
■
« The upper photo shows <ut announcement issued in Germany in ISO? inviting mem-
gpbers of the "Rosicrucian Order” to all parts of Europe, and members of its allied
groups, the "O. T. O ." to participate in a Congress or Convention to form an inter'
nations}* alliance. The lower photos show the first and last page of a mimeographed
copy of the report of that Convention concluded in Paris, June 9, 1908, Note that
the report war signed by Papus and Teder, former Supreme Masters of the Martinist
Order, Blanchard, the-present Supreme Master of the Martinists, and Theodore Reuss,
Supreme Magus of the Roskrucians and O, T. O. Blanchard was a participant in the
“Fadosi" Congress in 1934, representing the Martinis* Order.
Exhibit No. 6
n
The above photo shows the cover and one inside page of France’s most dignified
1 and respected occult publication. Note that it is the official publication of the Rosicru'
J dan Alchemical Society of France, and the French AMORC. Note also that its
director—owner and editor—is the very eminent F. Jollivet Castelot. This photo proses
that It reported the FUDOSI Convention, and issued a new "Fama” about it.
Exhibit* No,?
V
K
fffcl*«
•
>
*{V
d
T
k
U
O
tlO
X_
£
ro if ^ Kwterte'£> ,r^
- - — ' - ■
—
L
'*“ *ta’ ' "' •■•’’
4 — t! \ ‘h F ’0 -i ,<
4 >'-"
ORDO TO M jpii 0 ^ K 1 3 & _
_
f o 7 aHi*
Awt*ccTLtnr^iifiTio^]^^'"Fi:o'iujn5 * ~
m^ ...
*
•-»- . rV*.4*jearj.n t •» ^
-riuaialui«m r
-' ■'*’ ' M
““,Jt"
3
r 1*
*
'"T5
.” %9BKaK
mA/QTE REFERENCE
"jurtfeliw:*
**<
*
jW y of the g ^J. Or. ; i„ tB C1^i , n |
» r
» -jmv' ■
>
tfci smssbiiig .;•., „ •;• ,
A
fta»-tH
#.^Uptur* w
ho-
,;«»»4h*„f’. W VtX
,
aV
*tie»H
y omrttfr -*#*•
IT
vauiU
^ A ^ f g z t l & ' s S te ^ u u -
6
W
3i<nirihm'•;•■' -
= ■
•-'-:4 ''
fbf 4 .
Wol ^ *
:
iSa*s^
^X -r
n L y i -i v i
j - ,a' ‘C ^ ' l - ’ T
,, ;
«? , / 1
c.S
5brif,- c*1
) X
*> fir. ■
j£
i—
fc‘,l sfc' "
M
V
j *
;■
•
1%
stvf%-
«• *
&
*
?*
$
>“
A\w**afe-*y'
^Mliftlici Sr
fs$m& * i U
^i v
* *
*t*
;.V
*‘
V
ttKi» «T
.'dl#,<
K
^l»-.**' * f*f ■ ‘
T
K
y
S
t* i I 1 , • rh»oulk2l«tk p > v < T „>' vv>'.:.'
S
i. sSs5
?- Jlfej ’%-ivfe %,
. * , 1S* H
i Jhavhi.
wwofpttffr■
' • s-S S “‘
afi- % 1^,- /|i'
33*
The upper photo shows pages of the 0 . T. O, guide book in English and German,
"according to the Constitution of 1906.” It wm famed by "Supreme Magus Pere-
grimu” ia 1907—-four years before Crowley ever heard of the O. T, Q„ and twelve
year* before Crowley manufactured his mitorioti O, T. O. The lower reproduction
is from a letter on 0 . T. G. stationery written by the Supreme Magus "Peregrinui"
who signed one of the A. M. O. R. C. Charters. It proves that “Peregrinus” and
Theodor Reus*-Willsson were identical. This also proves that Crowley <ud not sign
the A .M .O .R .C . Charter.
E xh ibit Ho. 8
Hie two upper photos are ot Masonic documents issued in Rouznania m die year 1882
(when Crowley was a child) Note that the principal signature is preceded by one of
the kind o f crosses that CSymer says was invented and controlled by Crowley and
never used by others. Other photo dhows Masonic letterhead printed in Boston in 1890,
containing the same mark. Lower photo shows illustration from ‘‘History' of Free'
masonry" by Stillson and Hughson. It is the signature of an eminent Freemason and
high officer of the Knight Templar*. Note the cross before his signature. The other
crosses show the different forms as found on old Rosicrucian and Masonic documents.
BxHibiL* No.9
W # \ r ? \ -Sjs
■ » * . ■
> , «
■ , _
_ , , i : ' t '
d»«
V
i .Hrwaijtia^' aatisw rSfeanit<fcitti-Cl&nT - \ .
*.,/ ._ -r ,* ' / - .-' *3 'i -v | g j ||p
Haa®*
\
NOTE H E m
kMMEOF OR, HARTMANN
*-/ *jMii^A -7
B
*
*f S&
■ >?. Otr •’‘’V -*
enfreuger
»^V^AriV .! »rwT- 'yi.
s*£■* V-
&%»
NOTE HERR THE NAME
FRA PERmWNUS*
-xxrgx.v T**
* :* ' ^
. ‘
• ■ j , .,v -'rjalHii*r*>&f-
'ii' , ; ' ^ f a w - f r •'- "-
■O
O&
t
v**
■f ' t f ~ / f p
, ^ g f e i g g ^
f- ■, tW
iV
K
Ofw-o"^-
1
3
,Z u^H ^' „-.' ; -
^ > ^ s s ^ a 2 5 ^--*
- 3'**~ *& % &
5**-T
r ,.- n oT!« { ca^ ^ o t e ^ t e S S l - -
Wfe^**5^ a**1
* ,«o ^eussr^S^^^
" - •*.. ., .' jaw o r * < .
The above photos give proof that an R r
Austra m xeccr.t years, and jt, 0.„nBr ','■
*• ®*gaane tties published in Germany and
grinus) the Stipreme. Magm u ,i„ ant* Publisher was “T. Reuss-Willraon" (Pere-
of At R, C. It also proves that AmSr t * ^ Franz Hartma; n, was 1
the foreign branches. A*
MURC of Not* America was duly recognaed by
e**K‘
th\k No. 10
Greatest Psychic er of 1906
■y t-t. * * » « i« Q * r* L E W IS,
ffm ittvt at the Site 7ort J**Gw» far Psucww*
stsemfkj
■
9HR rn r m s n i
, on* Of
teW* h* iwd'wnw I . and ten where Sis m *
* 11
1
*Moment'«f naUst, which tarts turn after-
<wMMrtSMI to to* olmvtmt <tMD,
is this dmonstratloB it wte not possible for
H
w* " ................... - -
■ ftM ,
la rerana* to th*
World for an oeominl
adyaneeismii at psfoftl-
cal (MCorek and stogy,
mom wondartat dlacwr-
trial, reretorlops anil
cnucluHiops tiavtB* bean
cifected to tote one y*«r
«Mto h*v« b**» recorded
la the annals of.tb}»sci­
ence since toe ta t
“splrit-raljrf’ were beard
to this country to IMS,
roqnee* from the Sunday
o( the r^Bfksblo
peytMa exhibition of the Fast, ( trill 4e*effl>* the
remmatltoUw before the society ay a young
e-patrlcan Indian, -who palmed that to a tn ses ho
could communicate with the spirit of OB Indian
chldf, and aide with the "Ureat Spirit,” and that
■Jitsshlett wusU describe through hist the hmcei
of thoae gathered 4s ths room.
The medium did deetrlb*, xcenrauly a n t to de­
tail. tho ntosto td atoaf tooaBprtoent. oiieiWrat'
hehw
cto ...
_•:*»■•*»** la te m e n _____________ „
and therefore User* could him been too
lewrai. hat two mtstaattona—that of t»!«-
S«toyand that of att>t«» spirit communication. Of
■smim, thorn jw sepi knew their -morns, and tele-
fntby « f» teexible, for the medium canid have
woetved, leteoathically, the deempthn* ot the
room* Worn tho persona present.
But mooting this, wa Bud that teieptiby could
not eiblato toe method whereby the iiwdtum 4»-
wribea ihe room to which the gentleman before
nnnttoaed wa* spending the arming, nor coold It
isplain tew tho medium wm ambled to tell in
last what tote, gentleman was dota*: for w t w
present knew where th* gentleman waa. and cer­
tainly no one knew exactly whet he and the others
with him ought bo doing. The medium wr.a a
stranger to all preiout, and there cool ! have been
noeutlrnca.
It telepathy ten explain thla demonstration then
w« most admit that telepathy between strangers
at a distance ot any time and under try coato
tloaa, la possible. This to extaodwe tit* ibainunae
of telepathy to an extresab, but even as. It way be
to* real hypothesis, Thla demonstration "g tte
teta wr» tte mom remarkable, e til* tol
"Hie upper photo is a reproduction o{ a photo of "Theodor Reuss-Willsson, jour­
nalist, editor, and publisher; ‘Peregrinus,* Supreme Magus of the O. T. O. and the
Rosicrucran Order of Germany. Austria, and Switzerland," published in a biographical
guide book issued in Zurich, Switzerland, 1918. The lower photo is a reproduction
from the N, Y. Sunday World editorial page, January, 1907. Note the title under
the name of H. Spencer Lewis,
Exhibit" No. 11
—t?
The above ij a reproduction of the ancient “Alchemical and Hermetic'' Rosy Cross
•which AMORC has used in some of its literature. Qycicr, with astonishing display of
ignorance Of Kosicnjcian or Hermetic history and symbolism, says that this ancient,
sacred and dearly beloved symbol, is "a Black Magic Cross invented by Crowley, die
black magician, in 1910 or 1911.” What can one say to such gross injustice and
maliciousness? Every writer on true Rosicrudan symbolism in the best three centuries
has referred to this “encyclopaedic symbol,” which contains ■die “keys” to the most
sacred troths of the Christian Rosy Cross. The letters I. N. R. 1. in the four points
of the star are symbolical of the Christ Consciousness. To associate this with “black
magic” is a deliberate display of sacreiigious insult which the Hierarchy of the Cosmos
can never forgive. Only a mind devoid of respect for the sacred symbol of highly
cultured persons would think of offering an insult of this kind—solely to further his
personal, mercenary grievances.
E x h i b i t - l N o . 1 2
—28—
cieties, and a great authority on the
subject Clymer quotes Sachse as as
eminent historian and then deliberately
modifies and distorts one of Saebse's
quotations which he publishes in his
notebook as follows:
“After remaining in Holland for some
time, the party left Rotterdam for Lon­
don, where they arrived during the
month of August [1683]. "While in Lon­
don the leader of the party had con­
siderable intercourse with the so-called
’Phiiadelphists,’ a society which was
formed in ;England by the celebrated
Jane Lead® [not Bacon and others],
originally for the purpose of studying
and.explaining the writings of Jacob
Boehtne. The outcome of this movement
was •& league of Christians [not Rosi-
cruei&ns] who insisted on depth and in­
wardness of the spirit,” —Page IS.
The troth o f the m atter is that the
original Sachse quotation in Sachse’s
book is as follows: .
“A fter remaining in Holland for some
time, the party left Rotterdam for Lon­
don, where they arrived during the
month of August. While in London the
leader of the party had considerable
intercourse with the so-called ‘Fhila-
delphists,’ a society which was formed
in England by the celebrated Jane Leade,
origiaaliy for the purpose of studying
and explaining the writings of Jacob
Boehme, The outcome of this movement
was a league of Christians who insisted
on depth and inwardness of the spirit."
—Page 15.;
As a revelation of the cunning,
, trickery, unfair and malicious manner in
Which Clymer has quoted Sachse and
. used him to. belie the AMORC, Clymer
-
■
■
■
■deliberately ignored the following quo-
' tations from the same book by Sachse
? from which Clymer quoted the above
‘
it/.distorted paragraph:
“Con^plcudus among the latter elans
the Community of Gutman H etists,
:-./or true Rosicruoiaa mystics, who came
'/;5'in a hody to these shores in the year
Grace 1694, under the leadership of
:AXhCagister Johannes Keipius, etc.” —Bo-
S&rtroduction to Sachse’s book dated Fhila-
H'-'dfilphia, November, 1395.
K s i 'T en years later, June 2d, 1694, Kri-
J " and bis chapter of H etists or true
Lci&ns landed at Philadelphia,
Jted to: Germantown, and finally
„ _tied on the rugged banks of the Wifl-
Im atkon.:’ —Page 4, F irst Chapter.
\ 'y.’Tn that retired valley beside the
■Sawing brook the secret rites and mys­
teries of the true Rosicrucian Philoso­
phy flourished unmolested for years until
the state of affairs brought about by the
American Revolution together with per­
nicious Sunday legislation which also
discriminated against the keepers of the
scriptural Sabbath day, gradually caused
the incoming generation to assimilate
with the secular congregations.” —Page
7, F irst Chapter.
to the first Chapter of Mr. Sachse's
book we find on page S a fun-page illus­
tration entitled: “Title page of Rosi-
crueian mins. (Original to possession of
w riter.)” Speaking of this Rosicrucian
manuscript left by these early mystics
and which Mr. Sachse had in hie pos­
session, and of other stellar Rosicrucian
manuscripts* illustrated to the book, Mr.
Sachse says:
"A number of these illustrations con­
sist of secret symbols of the Rosicru-
cians, copied direct from an ancient man­
uscript, as heirloom in. the writer’s
family,”
Sachse’* Proof
We see from the foregoing quotations
that Sachse positively and unqualifiedly
says that these early mystics were Roal-
crucians, and th at they practiced the
Hermetic and Rosicrucian arts, and wore
not a religious cult. I t is true that they
were called "Pietists” by some histor­
ians because of their pious nature. The
term "Pietist" was not the name of any
religious cult. It is a simple German
word, Sachse explains this in a footnote
which Mr. Clymer wilfully Ignored, It
reads as fallows:
“Christopher Sauer states that the
name first arose from an expression used
by a Professor Vetter, who, in a funeral
sermon on one of the students, said ’he
was a Pietist,1 meaning th at he was a
God-fearing person —Bauer’s Almanac,
178L” —Page 130.
From this it witt be semi that although
these mystics were pious and some of
teem did actually belong to toe Quaker
Church, the German Lutheran, and other
religious denominations Just as Rosicru­
cians do today, they were Rosicrucians
in a colony studying and practicing the
Rosicrucian work from 1694 on up to and
beyond toe year 1800,.
This proves the first falsehood of Mr.
Clymer’s contentions, even though he
tried to present his false charge with a
misquoted or distorted extract from
Sachse’s book,
. •SeePhoto"Exhibits Noa 4and Sto this book.
29—
Number Two
Clymer says sad charges that when
AMORC’s officers speak of the Rosieru-
cian Order end Its existence ia Europe
at the present time and during the past
centuries, or speak of international con­
ventions and congresses being held ia
Europe, that the Imperator of AMORC
is lying and deceiving his membership
and that there are no such foreign,
branches of the organization active, and
that there have been no conventions or
congresses of Rosicrucians held in Eu­
rope or elsewhere.
The Committee has read a mass of
evidence in the form of books by Waite,
Fra. Witteinans and Castella,1 another
eminent Masonic historian,, in which
books idle names, dates and places of ac­
tive Rosicrueian bodies in various parts
of Europe are given for the Nineteenth
and Twentieth Century, and the names,
dates and places of Rosicrucian Conven­
tions and congresses are given.
This evidence was supported by news­
paper and magazine reports of such con­
ventions* which the committee saw and
examined in person, by cablegram mes­
sages from abroad confirming such con­
ventions, by photographs of assembled
groups at conventions and congresses,
and by other indisputable statements
made under oath and even signed and
sealed by members of the American
Council abroad, and by the officers, chief
officials of foreign governments, who
certified the documents.
This, then, proves the falsity of Cly­
mer’s second charge.
Number Three
Clymer charges, and goes to great
length to argue, that what the Imperatar
of AMORC said he attended a great
congress of Rosicrucians and other mys­
tical societies in Brussels, Belgium, in
July of 1934, at which time a union or
federation of all the Rosicrucian and
mystical societies was formed, endorsing
AMORC and refuting Clymer’s claims,
that the Ixnperator of AMORC was lying,
and deceiving Ms members, and that no
such federation as the “Fudosi” was
formed, that there was no congress or
‘Tba Rev. F. de P* Castall*. A. K. C , (P. M.,
P, z., P. P . Grand A. Ch„ P, P. Grand J ., of
Kent, England) VtQmmmsic and Booicraciau
Historian,
_ao
convention; and insinuates that the En-
perator did not attend any such con­
vention. He claims also that no reput­
able magazine or historical record pub­
lished in Europe or America contains
any report of such a ^Congress being
held in Brussels In 1934.*
The committee has examined pass­
ports of persons who attended the con­
vention, records of hotels where dele­
gates from various countries stopped
for over a week in Belgium, newspaper
reports published in Europe regarding
the convention, certification of a radio
announcement of the convention that
was made over one of the principal radio
stations in Brussels, moving pictures
that were taken of the officers and dele­
gates at the convention, and other
matter, including signed documents that
have been verified by cable dispatches
and •by inquiries made by newspaper
men and other unbiased authorities.
In addition thereto, the committee
publishes herewith part of a magazine
called "The Rose-Crote" published in
France a» the official publication of the
Rosicrucian Alchemical S o c i e t y of
France, and of the AMORC of France.*
The magazine is in its fortieth year,
and under the directorship of the emi­
nent scientist and alchemist, and Master
Rosicrucian, Jollivet-Castelot,' The fact
that the magazine has been published
for forty years shows the age of the
organization in France, and the reli­
ability of its statements. It contains a
full report of the Brussels convention
and of the formation of the federation
willed “Fudosi," guaranteeing the gen­
uineness and authenticity of AMORC .
"as the only authentic Rosicrucian Order |
In North and South America, perpetu- §
ating the ancient and true organization
of Rosicrucians, and their genuine pria-jg
ciples and laws.” s i
All of this evidence, which the eom^-j5
mittee verified, unquestionably disprovesj|jj
Clymer’s charges, and refute his state-
meat that the Imperator, H. Spe»c«efp
Lewis, has deceived his memberblrip ia ;
America, and that there are no reporti^M
of the “Fudosl” convention to be fotaSSHgf
in any European or American re c o i^ M
‘Among other '‘reputable” peNioatloas ,s
Funk and WegnaWs Standard Sear Book
■1934, containing fasts about this Congra**
page *J.
‘See photo Exhibit No. T to this Book.
*Se» Photo Exhibit So; 6 in this hook.
Number Four
Clymer ateo charges with many bom­
bastic statem ents and vitriolic words
that a certain "alga," in tie form of
connected crosses, used by Impamtor H.
Spencer Lewis before bis official signa­
tures on documents, is an Invention of
one Crowley of England, and used by no
one else but Crowley and Imperator
Lewis, and therefore a “confession” on
the part of lm perator Lewis that he is
owned and; controlled, and the whole
AMORC organization owned and con­
trolled, by Crowley—a black magician
of Europe—and that the whole teachings
and rituals of AMOBC am filled with
the Crowley black magic ideas; and that
Im perator Lewis is “selling out” the
AMORC to Crowley little by little. He
claims th at the Kosusrueian affiliated or­
ganization known as “Ordre Temple
Orientls” {O. T. 0-), which name ap­
pears on one of the Rosieruciaa charters
, granted to Im perator Lewis, is an or-
, ganization owned and controlled, in-.
vented and.designed by Crowley, and
: is a black magic organization formed
by Crowley in 1911; and that other sym­
bols appearing on the said Charter were
invented by Crowley and' owned and
1eontroted by him, sad constitute further
- “confessions” by Im perator Lewis that
AMORC is a part of Crowley’s Black
magic organization.
The evidence which this committee
; has seen and verified shows that in all
>the AMORC records and advices to
AMORC officers in North America it is
U
officially proclaimed that Crowley is in
bad repute .in Europe and has never
been a part of any genome Rosicrucian
'■organization. He did in 1911 appropriate
adopt for himself without perrdis-
certain ancient Roslcrucian signs,
^Symbols and titles, Just as did Randolph
pwfore Clymer, and just as Clymer has
; as Randolph’s successor. The coia-
ihas seen indisputable evidence in
dte’s book, W ittemans’ book, and the
of other Masonic and Roslcrucian
orians of Europe and In America, to
teffect that the Order «t f
was affiliated with the
icrucian organization as far hack as
Seventeenth Century in Europe and
John Tarker, eminent Masonic
iin London was Supreme Magus
O. T. O. Theodor Reuss-(Wills-
“Peregrinus"— was the elected
or to Yaxker, I t has seen records
convention of the O. T. O. held in
in 1906 and 1908.1 and it has
fftoto Exhibit No. 6 in this book.
seen a copy of the Constitution at the
0. T. O. published in Austria and Ger­
many in 190!,* proving that the organi­
zation was a large one before 1911. It
has seen evidence to prove that the
charter granted to H. Spencer Lewis
In the name of the O. T. Q. was not
granted by Crowley, but by the well-
known European mystic, Magus Theo­
dor Re.uss-Wlllsson of Munich, whose
Latin, official name is known all over
Europe as “Feregrinus."*
It has seen much evidence to prove
th at the ecclesiastical cross emblem
which the Im perator H. Spencer Lewis
uses before bis name on official docu­
ments was not invented by Mr. Crow­
ley, but was in use on Masonic and
Rosicrucian documents in the Seven­
teenth and Eighteenth Centuries and the
committee reproduces herewith photo­
graphs of Roumanian, Masonic docu­
ments and other documents dating as far
back as 1882, showing similar or Identi­
cal marks made before the signatures
Of officers who were in no wise connected
with or known to Crowley. Crowley
m ust have been a mere child in those
years. This documentary evidence is
presented herewith in this report* The
other symbols referred to by Mr. Crow­
ley and the numbers 7-7-7 stated by
Clymer to be one of Crowley’s symbols
have been found of ancient usage in
Roslcrucian documents, and in no sense
belonging to or controlled by Mr. Crow­
ley.'
■Furthermore, the members a t the Con­
vention testified from the floor of the
Convention that although a majority of
them had been in the organization seven
or eight years, and a large number over
twelve years, no member had ever
found in the teachings, rituals, or work
of AMORC the least indication of black
magic formulas, black magic principles,
or black magic Ideas, and th at the pro­
gression of the lectures and lessons and
the principles contained in them would
prevent the introduction of black magic
•See Photo Kxhihit No. 8 in this book.
'Photo Exhibit No. 8 also shows the manner
to which Theodor Renss-WUlsson as "Pere-
grtous,” the Supreme Magus, signed all of­
ficial communications. This signature is iden­
tical with that on the Gennan-Austrian-Siritz-
erlaiul charter granted to Imperator Lewis,
and which Clymer ridiculously or maliciously
says was signed by Crowley. Note also li*e
official Roslcrucian salutation, "Ever yours to
the Bonds of the Order," a phrase never found
in Crowley's papers.
‘See Photo Exhibit No, 9 in this book.
‘See Photo Exhibit No. 12 In this book.
*
—
81
unless all of tie thousands of lectures
already in use l»y AMORC were com*
pletdy controverted, perverted, and con­
tradicted. The fact that Cwwicy wilfully
and wrongly used after 19U some of
the early Roeicruciaa emblems (and net
until 1919 did he use a few of the 0. T. O.
emblems) does not' constitute what Cly­
mer claims Is a ‘'confession" m the part
of Imporator Lewis as being associated
with Crowley. By such reasoning Crow­
ley must have sponsored all Masonic
Lodges formed In England or America
since 1911, because such Lodges use
some of the symbols which Crowley used
in 1911 to 1918, and which he arbitrarily
adopted without warrant!
Therefore, this absurd and deliberately
malicious statem ent was wholly and
completely negated by the committee
and the members of the convention. It
is the most wicked of eiymeris false
inventions—a potion of poison concocted
by Clymer with full knowledge that it
was a lie—a deliberate lie.
Number Five
Clymer further charged th at the title
"Imperator" used by H, Spencer Lewis
was invented by Crowley and never used
by anyone elaa but Crowley until H»
Spencer Lewis used it, thereby again
proving that the AMORC is associated
with Crowley! Mr. Clymer is very posi­
tive and very malicious in his statements
to this regard. Yet, he knows that this
statement is as false as any of bis other
claims.
The Committee finds from the books
by W aite, Wittemans and a score of
others, and from documents and papers
even of &Masonic nature, that the term
"Imperator” was used by chief execu­
tives of the Rosiorucian Order as early
as 1700. Waite, in his book, cites a.
dozen instances of where the title "Sm-
perator” was found signed to ancient
ivoKlcruclnn documents. This absurd, ri­
diculous, and deliberately deceitful state­
ment on the part of Clymer is there­
fore wholly and totally negated by our
investigations. Mr. Clymer would not
dare make such a bold-face statem ent
in any Court. He simply hopes that soma
ignorant person w ill.believe i t Ho is
simply being tricky and crafty in his
maliciousness. Yet, he claims to be a
lover of “truth”—and a "Rosisrucxan
Master” CO-
Number Six
Perhaps the most self-contradictory
of Clymer’s charges is that the Rosi-
cruclan teachings and course of instruc­
tion, ritualism, secret lavra and prin­
ciples, have been taken from published
books, contrary to the claim of Imper­
ator Lewis, who in 1918 offered a reward
for any evidence that might be sub­
m itted to prove that the secret teach­
ings, rituals, laws and principles, and
demonstration work of the AMORC sys­
tem, were taken from printed books or
public books of any kind.
To support his claim and charge, Cly­
mer resorts again to manufactured evi­
dence by selecting m atter that is unre­
lated to his charge and wilfully attem pt­
ing to deceive his readers into believing
that it is legitim ate evidence.
Every member of AMORC knows that
the secret teachings that constitute the
regular Temple grades of instruction,
ritual and demonstrations, end with the
Ninth tirade, and that thereafter only
supplementary reading, not containing
any of the fundamental principles, sec­
ret laws, rituals, or teachings of
AMORC, Is given to the members, for
they receive their teachings in another
manner not understood by Clymor, and
having nothing to do with the printed
or typewritten lectures. But Clymer pro­
ceeds to put forward a few of the supple­
mentary lectures, less than forty of
them, out of the whole AMORC course
of over three thousand lectures, as evi­
dence of his claim. In these few sup­
plementary lectures chosen by Clymer
he shows that m atter has been extracted
from the writings of' Franz Hartmann,
from Ec&srtshausea, and Bucks, Rut,
even the extracts which he presents
clearly show that they have naught to
do with SoBicrucian teachings, Rosicru-
cian principles, Rosicruoian laws, .Rosi-
crueian rituals, or Rosiorucian demon­
strations. They are purely dissertations
on the history and biography of Rosi-
cmcians and on the spiritual value of
the Rosiorucian work throughout the
world. Certainly no one would call bio­
graphical, allegorical, or historical
sketches a part “of*the secret teachings
and fundamental principles of Rnsicru-
cianism.
Furthermore, Clymer charges that Im­
perator Lewis Is guilty as a thief and
a “pilferer,” and charges him with
"plagiarism” because of these extracts
in a mere handful of the many thousands
— 83
of AM0H3D lectures. Yet, the extracts
which. Ciymar publishes show that the
lessons give credit to the authors from
whom the extracts have been, made and
to their books. Certainly it is a unique
thing for & man to be charged with
plagiarism when he admits that he has
extracted matter from the works of
others and gives the names of the au­
thors and books.1
This flagrant charge and maIici0U3
falsehood on the part of Ciymer is there­
fore negated by the very evidence Ciy­
mer submits, for he does not show that
any of the secret teachings, rituals, laws,
principles, demonstrations, or other mat-'
ter constituting the Boslcrnelsn system
of instruction has been taken from any
book published at any time. For years
Ciymer has Speaker
Lrewis "invented and created” all tlie
Hoalcrucian rituals 3t
m
1 teaching's and
that they were not reliable. Now, hs
reverses his claim and says they were
“all stolen from reliable books."
Number Seven
Ciymer further charges that Franz
Hartmann and von Eckartshausen, from
whom the specific extracts were taken,
by AMORC, never wore Rosicrucians,
and Should, not have been quoted. The
Committee finds from the historical
books and other records of Europe that
von Kctartshausen has always been ad­
mitted, and called, a Kosicrucian; and it
presents herewith a photograph of Just
one of the German Kosicrucian maga­
zines in which Franz Hartmann Is listed
as a member of the Kosicrucian Order
to Germany and Austria.3 The Committee
also finds that in James Hastings' En­
cyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Franz
Hartmann is mentioned In Volume 10
under the subject of Roslcruclanlsni as
a member of the German and Austrian
Jurisdiction. That Hartmann was for a
time a Theosophist, and that at times
he veiled Ms Roslcrucian connections,
as many hundreds and thousands have
done in the past and present, does not
'Webster's m O . every other SngUti* dktion-
' ‘ ‘ ‘ "one who steals
ends
*xy deflnas a plaglmriirt as
from the writings of another and m utes them
»ff as his own proanction.” How could
AMOK0 of today— o r any encyclopaedia—
publish any outline or fairly complete history
of the past aetivitiea of the Rosicraciana with­
out quoting or taking extracts from the
records and writing* of past bSatorlana, nreht-
,tints or scribes? So tong ns due credit la
Siren, it ie not only ethically and morally
corr«efe—
but a necessity.
constitute proof that he was not a rec­
ognized and active Fr&ter of the Rosi-
cruciana. Hr. Ciymer either wilfully fal­
sified when he said that Franz Hart­
mann was never a member of the Rosi-
crucians, or he knows nothing about
Koslcnieian history—which is unique in
one who claims to be “Grand Master
of the World."
Number Eight
Ciymer furthermore attempts to be-
little the tmperator Lewis by claiming
that in 1906 he was only an office bey
working in a "magical palace" picking
up a few little tricta "which he now
uses to deceive his members at conven­
tions and lodge demonstrations." (1)
Ciymer claims that in 1906 the Imper-
ator Lewis was not only a mere office
boy, but uneducated and in no way pre­
pared to go to Europe in 1908 and re­
ceive the initiation In the Rosiorucian
Order, because be had never graduated
from public school.
The Committee has seen evidence that
he did graduate from a public school in
New York in the year 1899 under Prin­
cipal Zabrtski, and the program of grad­
uation shows that he had created an
orchestra in the school and directed its
performance a t the graduation exercises.
Other evidence shows that in IMS the
Imperator Lewis was elected President
of the New York Institute for Psychical
Research because of his scientific knowl­
edge in the field of metaphysics and mys­
ticism, and that his associates in that
organization were EUa Wheeler Wilcox,
Fra. Elbert Hubbard, and Mr, Funk of
Funk and Wagnalla', publishers of the
Literary IMgest, and many other prom­
inent persons. Other evidence shows that
Imperator Lewis in 1906 was employed
as a special writer and feature writer
for the New York Herald and the- New
Y o rk W orld, and the Committee repro­
duces herewith a special article written
at the request of the Editor of the
New York World, and published in Jan­
uary at 1907, in one of its Sunday edi­
tions, dealing with the work done by
H. Spencer Lewis as President of the
Now York In titu le for Psychical Re­
search.* This society was composed at
several hundred scientists and investi­
gators who were studying the subject
of psychic and telepathic demonstrations
and of general metaphysical principles.
It was a non-commercial organization
as**Photo Exhibit No. in Id this book. »See Photo Exhibit No, II in this book.
33—
selling no membership, selling no books,
and having no business features of any
kind. An article in the “N. Y. Evening
Journal," In 1908, by Ella Wheeler Wil­
cox, shows that H. Spencer Lewis was
still President of the Society. Further­
more, in 1306 the Imperatar was a mar­
ried man with a sou two years old, and
never In his lifetime could he have been
employed in a magical factory, inasmuch
as a complete record of his activities
throughout all of those years and up to
the present time has been verified.
Thus Clymer's stinging, personal, vit­
riolic slum against H. Spencer Lewis as
a reputable person are negated by indis­
putable evidence, some of which is re­
produced herewith. But why did Cly­
mer have to add such a deliberate false­
hood to bis chain of “accurate evidence"?
Can anyone believe anything that Cly-
mer says in his charges and claims?
Number Nine
Clymer charges that at no time were
the books of AMORC audited until the
conspirators demanded an audit in 1934,
and that the membership was kept in
ignorance of what bad been done with
the funds of the organization. The Com­
mittee finds that a certified accountant,
unconnected with the organization, and
recognised by the Banks and the State
of California aa a reliable auditor, has
made an audit of the books each year
ever since the organisation name to Cal­
ifornia, and other audits have been made
each year since 1916. The .Committee
further teds that these audits were
submitted at each and every Convention,
and to the Convention committees for
examination, and that members visiting
AMORC have had access to these audits
and did examine them at each Conven­
tion. R found that the V. S. Government
had audited the hooks on two occasions
prior to 1884 because of the false charges
made by the conspirators, and that the
Government had given AMORC a clean
bill of health. The Committee also found
that when the conspirators demanded an
audit by one of their own auditors it waa
freely granted by AMORC without hesi­
tation, and that the audit was entirely
satisfactory as far as AMORC was con­
cerned, hut entirely contradictory to the
charges made by the conspiratora,*
Members at the 1985 Convention tes­
tified that they ted been present at
many Conventions and ted been freely
offered all of the AMORC financial rec­
ords for examination. In this regard it
may be noted, however,*that members
of other Fraternities—even of the largest
in America—testified that they had never
seen all toe financial records of other
organizations offered at Conventions. It
is neither customary nor compulsory.
The auditors’ reports themselves were
carefully examined by the committee and
found to be free of any discrepancies,
any maladministration of funds, or any
unwarranted appropriation of funds by
the Imperator or other officers, or any
misuse of the funds in any way. In fact,
all the audita proved that Clymer's
charges that large sums of money had
been sent to Europe or personally mis­
appropriated by the officers were abso­
lutely false and ridiculous. Why does
not Clymer quote one single Instance of
“misuse" of the funds, since he has had
a copy of the auditor’s special exam­
ination made for him and his cohorts?
Just ONE instance of personal misuse of
the foods for personal or selfish use,
quoted verbatim from one of the audits
would have proved their contentions.
Number Tea
Clymer charged that the "Lewis fam­
ily" was "usurping" toe power and au­
thority of the organization and running
it "in their own way” without proper
authorization.
The Committee found that in the or­
iginal incorporation papers the State of
California granted to the Imperator and
Ms wife, the Supremo Secretary and his
wife, and one other fifth person, the
right to have toe sole voting power of
the organization, inasmuch as H. Spen­
cer Lewis and hia wife and the others
were the originators as well as incor­
porators of the AMORC Supreme Grand
Lodge and that all foreign Rosicrucian
authority a te documents were in the
personal name of B. Spencer Lewis and
not a “group of persons.” The Committee
made inquiries through legal channels
and found that the corporation of
AMORC is a perfectly correct one In
every legal sense, and that the Imper­
ator and his family or associates are
not “usurping” any authority that be-
•Stoce the demanded audit was made over tea months ago, and cost the coaspirators a con­
siderable sum of money; and since they claimed that such a complete audit would “prove
that large gums o f money had been robbed or wrongly used by the Officers of AMORC; and
since Clymer and the others have ted' complete copies of that audit far ten months, why did-
not Clymer quote one single Instance of wrong use of the AMORC funds?
—34—
longs to anyone else. Inasmuch aa no
one else {except Charles O, Dean, now
deceased and his place filled by Dr. Le
Brua) was eve? connected with the cor­
poration and no one has put to any claim
to the right of directing the AMORC to
place of the present directors. The Con­
vention Itself voted unanimously that
it would have no one else hut the present
officers. Haw can anyone Be a "usurper”
of some authority if there never was
anyone else in possession of that au­
thority, and no one else comes forward
and claims it? This was the very em­
barrassing question asked by the Court
during one of the conspiracy trials. The
conspirators could not answer. Why does
Clymer use such a tricky word as
"usurper"? And how can he intelligently
and honestly charge that the Lewis’s are
illegally or wrongly managing a move­
ment which they established and incor­
porated? Is not such a charge grossly
malicious to any thinking person?
Number Eleven
Clymer and his cohorts have been
charging for a number of years that the
United States Government found that
the AMORC was a profit-making
"racket” with huge sums of money be­
ing appropriated by Imporator Lewis
and his family, and that therefore the
AMORC organization was not entitled
to income tax exemption, as a "non­
profit” organization.
The Committee found that many years
ago the United States Government had
granted exemption to AMORC in re­
gard to Income tax, and that this had
never bean set aside. It found from
correspondence with the Government and
other records that about a year ago the
conspirators attempted to have the
United States Government set aside the
AMORC exemption on the basis of fraud
in the handling of the AMORC funds.
It found that toe Government had sent
a special auditor to San dose, California,
who spent six whole weeks of seven
hours a day auditing every book and
financial record, including the bank
books of AMORC, covering many years,
and that this auditor found no fraud,
no discrepancies, no errors, and no milt
administration of the funds. As a result
of this investigation on the part of the
Government, a letter was sent to
AMORC from Washington dated May
28, 1985, in which the original ex-
-
. emptioa to AMORC was stated again,
and toe AMORC was assured that It
would not have to pay any income tax
if it continued to maintain the system
of operation it had used for years!
At no time to the history of this or­
ganization has AMORC received a de­
mand for money as income tax, despite
what Mr. Clymer and his cohorts in
California have maliciously stated. The
Committee, therefore, found that this
charge was another deliberate attempt
to injure the reputation and integrity
of the organization and its officers. Why
did they make this false charge? If
they can manufacture charges in this
free-handed manner, how can they claim
to be working with “clean hands” to
protect (!) the membership of AMORC?
Number Twelve
Clymer or his associates also charged
and have stated to letters signed over
their signatures and in affidavits filed
in court actions that the Post Office
Department of the United States Gov­
ernment was conducting serious inquiries
looking toward the cancellation of
AMORC’s mail privileges. This would
be a serious situation, indeed, if true,
for It would mean the possible annihila­
tion of AMORC. To show how sincere
these conspirators are in their claims
that what they are doing is solely for
the good of the organization and to behalf
of toe members, it should he noted that
by filing complaints with the United
states Government to an attempt to have
the Post Office D e p a r t m e n t stop
AMOBC's mail, if successful, it would
have prevented AMORC from mailing
any lecture*, literature, or anything at
all to any member anywhere, or to re­
ceive any mail from any of Its members.
If this is what they call working in be­
half of toe members' best Interests, then,
may we .all be saved from it!
The Committees found that toe Gov­
ernment did make a long and thorough
investigation some years ago, after the
conspirators had filed a malicious com­
plaint, but the Government did not stop
AMORC’s mail, and there* has been no
interference with AMORCfs mail up to
toe present time, and there is no inves­
tigation of AMORC on the part iff toe
Post Office pending now nor has there
been for a long period of rime,
—Thus another very malicious and false
charge remains for Clymer and his co­
horts to wipe away with more manu­
factured evidence or tricky statements.
Or, will they contend that all parts of
— 35—
* ,
the Government are Incompetent to in­
vestigate AMORC, and only the six «oa-
spiraiors are capable of knowing' the
truth?
Number Thirteen
Ciymer's associates claim that every
time AMORC recommends boohs by
other authors and published by publish­
ing houses in Philadelphia, New York,
Boston, Chicago, St, touts, Indianapolis,
San SYancisco, Montreal, London, or
elsewhere, and recommends that the
members buy these books direct from
the publishers or bookstores, without
any profit to AMORC, that AMORC and
the Imperator are deceiving' the mem­
bers, inasmuch as H, Spencer Lewis
“owns and controls" aB of these various
publishing houses throughout the TJntted
States and elsewhere, and the income
from the sale of these books reverts to
H. Spencer Lewis and his son.
How ridiculous it to to say that, such
firms as Doran A Company, MacMillan,
DouWeday & Page, David McKay Co.,
Little, Brown & Co., and scores of others’
are owned by H. Spencer Lewie!'The
members at the Convention testified that
not one of them had ever eem a recom­
mendation, in the Hosicrudan magazines
or lectures, of beaks published by other
organizations or companies that could
have been owned or controlled by the
Imperator. The only books owned and
controlled by AMORC are those which
AMORC admits it has prepared and
printed. The absurdity of such a charge
becomes almost childish in its nature
when one thinks of it, and yet this is
the type of matter that these conspira­
tors publish' in letters and pamphlets,
not for AMORC members to read, bat
for strangers, and especially for news­
paper editors and educators who do not
Know- what books have been recom­
mended or what publishing houses have
been mentioned.
Number Fourteen.
caymer and hto associates claim that
not only are the Supreme Officers rob­
bing the funds of the organization
heartlessly and in enormous amounts,*
♦Remember, not i
tangible Instance
appropriation to
that tltey fc&ve ft <
flnancisf records, covering- many years, and
made by their own selected and pa:d certified
or registered accountant.
but that the membership of the organi­
sation is rapidly decreasing because of
its dissatisfaction with the administra­
tion of AMORC; and that in the city of
San Jose itself, the City Officials and
every person of repute Aeoms the offi­
cers of AMORC and belittles them. The
Committee found that the stories about
the robbing of the funds are not only
untrue but untenable in the face of the
very rigid system which the Board of
Directors has voluntarily instituted
whereby no one receives anything but
a recognized, established salary, and
cannot selfishly draw upon any pt the
funds for any personal, mercenary pur­
pose. The fact that the books Save been
constantly audited even by the con­
spirators themselves and by the Gov­
ernment and no wrongdoing' has ever
been found disproves that malicious
charge. It found that the membership
of the organization has steadily in­
creased, even during the years of de­
pression, and that while two or three
hundred members per month had be­
come delinquent in their dues, they were
not suspended from membership or can­
celled, but return, again when their de­
linquency Is adjusted. The Committee
found that in any month not more than
a small fraction of one per cent of the
membership has resigned from the
Order’s activities, and, these complete
resignations have been due to removals
to foreign countries, inability to keep up
the study periods or other reasons, and
in, only a very small number of eases—
less than one-tenth of one per cent—
do the resigned members make any com­
plaint regarding the teachings or ac­
tivities of the organization. The Increase
of buildings and property, the many ex­
penditures for marvelous improvements,
and the increasing size in the Convention
each year, in addition to the post office
receipts showing the increasing number
of lessons and lectures going to members
each month and each year, disprove the
statement that the membership of the
organisation has been decreasing. It is
very apparent to every business firm in
San Jose, and to every member visiting
San Jose, that the organization has had
a marvelous and steady growth in every
way.
The Committee also found that at each
Convention various Officials of the City
have been present and welcomed the
Rosierueisns -to the oliy of San Jose, and
have paid high tribute to the orgaaizs-
-tion and particularly to its Imperator
and other executives. During the Con­
vention tide very year, a member rep-
k single concrete, definite or
of ouch "robbing" or jnls-
menlloaefl. despite the last
templets audit of all AMORC
i’tkl.i','
resenting tiie City Council and a mem­
ber representing- the Chamber of Com­
merce were present and m behalf of the
city paid high tribute to the organiza­
tion and its officers.
Tbe Committee interviewed newspaper
editors, the Chief of Police, the judges
of the courts, the City Manager, the mer­
chants, principals of schools, the Post­
master, and as many other prominent
characters in the city as they could find,
and found all of them paying the highest
tribute to the organization and its offi­
cers.' In fact, the entire assembly of
members and delegates attending the
Convention in 1985—the largest ever as­
sembled—found that wherever they went
throughout the city of San Jose, that
storekeepers, hotel managers, and per­
sons Of all walks of life paid high tri­
bute to the AMORC organization and its
officers.
;Other Charges
Thus each and every one of the
charges published by Clymer in his
pamphlets and subscribed to by his as­
sociates here in California, constituting
what is, in our opinion, and belief, a
group of conspirators, or originated by
Mr, Saunders, were found to be abso­
lutely false, and In not one single in­
stance was there any evidence to sup-
m at even a slight foundation for the
charges made. For this reason the Mem­
bership Defense Committee herewith
presents the summary of the report by
the Committee on “Administration and
Welfare” which embodies the report by
the Committee on "Grievances,” with
their attestations as to the Investiga­
tions they conducted and the facts as
they found them.
(the Membership Defense Committee
will be watchful of what farther at­
tempts the conspirators make to injure
the organization, and is prepared now to
put into printed form further documen­
tary evidence regarding the activities of
these conspirators, their motives and
purposes, and the injustice of their cam­
paign.
The National Membership Defense Committee.
Whatthe Special CommitteeReported
After the special "Administration and
Welfare” committee, voluntarily formed
at the 1935 Convention, had completed
its five-day investigation and inquiry
into the charges made by Clymer in bis
books, and by tire other detainers of
the Order,, It .presented its 57-page re­
port to the Convention, after each mem­
ber of the Committee had read It and
signed his or hex name before a notary,
attesting to its correctness.
We offer herewith the “Conclusion” of
that long report, as read to the Con­
vention and adopted unanimously-—with­
out a single dissenting voice. (Other
committees voluntarily formed at the
Convention had also investigated many
of the charges from special angles, and
also voted, therefore, on this report):
“The voluntary members of the "Ad­
ministration and Welfare Committee' de-
.sire to report that a careful, exhaustive
search and investigation of the records,
including correspondence, audits and all
available data, as well as lengthy inter­
views with the several enemies of the
Order, reveal that the charges made are
fictitious, without foundation, and repre­
sent a vilification of the various Officers
of the Order, and are also false claims
and exaggerations of petty instances, as
well as heckling. I t is evident that their
motives are: by innuendo, falsification,
and high-pressure means, to place the
officers of the Order on the defensive
and in a false light: and through clever
distortion of the Officers' proper and
well-meaning acts develop friction within
the Order so as to disrupt it and cause
the members to demand a change in the
Constitution, in order that certain sin­
ister influences may assume control of
the Order and dominate its future ac­
tivities for a selfish purpose and private
gain, and thus place the organization
—37—
In the very category with which they
have falsely charged both the Order and
its present Officers.
"This report has been analyzed and
approved by each and every member of
the "Administration and Welfare Com­
mittee' and is signed with the signatures
of .each and every committee member."
(The following are the signatures of
the members of the above special com­
mittee as sworn to before a Notary
Public.)
Elrod Ward, Chairman of the Conven­
tion, San Prancisco, Calif.
A, B. Walker, Chairman of the Commit­
tee, Los Angeles, Calif,
I>r. P. Ralph Moore, Los Angeles, Calif.
Mary A, Burke, Seattle, Wash.
A W. Nichols, San Francisco, Calif.
Evelyn Harper, Webster Grove, Mo.
A. 3V
L W'avta, Los Angeles, Calif,
J, W, Burns, Harrison Mills, B. C,
Mrs. M. L/Emlg, Berkeley, Calif.
P, W. Modersota, Chicago, Hi.
R. L. Bush, San Jose, Calif.
O, R. Edmunds, Balmyria, Wise.
L. C. Stadg, Berkeley, Calif.
W. E. Ruthnuf?, Orofino, Idaho.
Harold Leader, Los Angeles, Calif.
Carl Anderson, Redwood CMy, Calif.
Miss A. E. Smith, Memphis, Tenn.
Hope Grenander, San Jose, Calif.
W a. P. Krehm, Los Angeles, Calif.
Norman G. Boswell, San Jose, Calif.
JDr. J, G. Guidero, Loa Angeles, Calif.
Minnie H. Ludtke, Los Angeles, Calif.
'i
A Challenge to Mr. Clymer
Numerous times during the ' varied
career of ,Mr. Clymer, he has declared
in his acrimonious literature attacking
AMORC and its officers, principally Dr.
.Lewis, that he had hut two aims; First,
that he desired to bring Ms contentions
before the entire world and in some pub.
Bo manner, prove the claims of AMORC
false; second, that AMORC could not and
would not- face him in any public con­
sideration of tiie matter under dispute
because of his "evidence,” and he sought
to make this Known.
Believing at first that Mr. Clymer was
sincere, his challenge was accepted in
faith, the Imperator offered to meet
in a public debate, he to bring Ms
"evidence” and the AMORC representa­
tive Ms, and to permit ADI. Interested
parties, including the general public, to
attend the session. Would Mr. Clymer
accept this fair method? He would not.
He evaded it on the pretense that he was
not interested in a debate (this after all
Ms declaring that he wanted the matter
brought before the public In an open
and fair manner). What was his evasive
alternative? It was that we permit a
committee, mainly composed of Free­
masons, to investigate the claims of both
parties and render a decision. This was
a direct reversal of his former position.
With all due respect to the Masonic
Order, why should its members, of an
the different classes of society, be se­
lected as the judges in a controversy
that concerns many Individuals, both
men and women, who are not Masons?
Further, why should any one class of
persons, or fraternity, be selected as the
,judge in the matter?
- It to quite safe to say that Mr. Clymer
would VIGOROUSLY P R O T E S T if
AMORC were to demand that the offi­
cers of the American Medical Associa­
tion. who are VERY familiar with Mr.
-Clymeris past record, and who have even
published that record, should be the
,Judges in the controversy. Yet, after all,
AMORC would have as much right to
insist Upon them if SINGLE GROUPS
were to be made the judges. But Mr.
Clymer has repeatedly stated that he
swishes to tell the world and the public
at large about AMORC and display his
"evidence” for their examination, mien
why not let this same public, which he
hopes to reach, composed of all groups
and .fraternities, men and women of
every walk of life, be the judge?
The average man and woman has a
natural inherent sense of justice mid of
What is fair, and, therefore, once again
we publish a challenge which was sent
to Mr. Clymer by registered mail, which,
we believe, every reader will admit, after
analysis, is so open, so fair, that if it is
not accepted, it will be to them prime
facie evidence of the hypocrisy of Mr.
Clymer and an indication that he actu­
ally does not seek to meet AMORC in
an open debate and present facta for
t-ramingHryn by all interested parties.
It Is quite true that Mr. Clymer has
published books AND BOOKS purport­
ing to contain the “evidence” for his
Charges but which, in reality, are but
a conglomeration of distorted facts and
misconceptions. HOWEVER, upon an
open platform his “evidence” could not
consist of merely his own quotations;
the originals, IN THEIR ENTIRETY,
would need be introduced and seen by
all interested.
There could be no alterations, dele­
tions, or under or over emphasis of
terms. His "evidence” would have to
stand upon the weight of its own au­
thority. Perhaps It is because Mr. Cly­
mer knows this that he finds it safer and
less embarrassing to PRINT his "evi­
dence.” Furthermore, in his books, Mr.
Clymer prints but his version, presenting
the defendant’s reply in an ineffectual
m anna. BUT OH HOW DIFFERENT
on a public platform, in the presence of
a forceful, eloquent speaker, with com­
plete evidence available, would Mr. Cly­
mer find it! This is perhaps why Mr. Cly­
mer, using every pretense, shies from a
debate. Another may write the books for
Mr. Clymer which he issues as his own,
but on the public platform in the pres­
ence of hundreds, perhaps thousands,
Mr. Clymer would have to depend solely
and exclusively upon Ms own ability to
present his arguments and "evidence,”
Undoubtedly, this also is the reason why
— 89—
Mr. Clymer makes many sacrifices
rather than meet Dr. Lewis on the public
platform in dehate.
The following, then, Is a challenge Is­
sued by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, Imperator
of AMORC, to Mr. R. Swinburne Clymer,
and seat him by registered maSL See,
my good reader, if you can find in this
challenge any reason why Mr. Clymer
should evade accepting it, if he is really
sincere in wanting to bring his “evi-
denes'’ and claims into the open and be­
fore all interested parties. If Mr. Cly­
mer refuses to accept such a frank and
open challenge, Just as it is with all its
liberal terms, obviously to the advantage
of Mr. Clymer, then in your opinion
what, if any, value can be attributed to
Ids statement that he wishes the matter
brought into public light?
August 20, 1935.
Mr. R. Swinburne Clymer.
Dear Mr. Clymer:
As you have openly declared yourself
desirous of presenting to all interested
parties the evidence you claim to have,
which would disprove all AMORC claims,
we are again, and for the last time, go­
ing to test the sincerity of your vaunted
statements by challenging you to an open
public debate sad presentation of evi­
dence.
We do not believe that this matter
should come before any single, private
group or body for investigation aa a Star
chamber proceedings, which you seem
to seek, since no single group or body
is alone interested In the authenticity of
Rosicrucian claims. We would not expect
you to submit your.evidence, for ex­
ample, to a committee composed of offi­
cers of the American Medical Associa­
tion, nor do we expect you to have that
body para upon your integrity. So we
believe, as would every fair minded per­
son, that the interested public as a
whole is the best Judge since Rosicru-
elanism is not for one class of society,
but for all classes. As for the intelli­
gence and sense of justice of the general
pwMio, we are willing to taka our chances
with a public audience. I can see no
reason why you should not—if you are
sincere.
There are three elements to be con­
sidered in preparation for a public de­
bate. They are: First, the east; second,
the place; third, the method of announc­
ing it to the public. To prevent you from
having any logical excuses for once
again evading a challenge of this nature,
we will give you the decided preference
in all three of these elements.
1. You will, in person, represent your
own case and I shall represent AMORC.
2. You will ,bring with you tangible,
definite evidence that wifi be recognized
by any court to support your charges
against AMORC, and likewise, I shall in­
troduce equally acceptable evidence to
disprove your claims and your state­
ments of authenticity.
3. All evidence, yours and mine, will
be submitted to a committee composed
of the audience and three attorneys of
the city in which the debate is held.
You may select one attorney is that city
and we another, .and the two attorneys
select the third. The judgment of this
committee will be the final decision on
the debate.
4. Since the rental expense of the
ball and railroad transportation might
prove a hardship to you, WE WILL,
PAY for the rental of ANY HALI, you
select E
N
T ANY CITY OF ONE HUN­
DRED THOUSAND OR MORE, in the
mid-western states, which would be
about equal distance between your state
and mine, and pay your transportation
to the city. You may, of course, pay
your own transportation if you desire.
3. The meeting must be held upon a
Sunday afternoon or evening, so that as
many people as possible may attend—
not Just one group or committee as you
seem to prefer. You may Invite, in ad­
dition to the genera! public, your fol­
lowers, and I shall Invite AMORC mem-
bens,
6. So that the public may be advised
of the debate and given every opportu­
nity to attend and since you may not
be in a position to do so, WE WILL,
PAY,all newspaper and radio advertise­
ments announcing the affair. You will,
Of course, be given ample opportunity to
examine all such announcements Before
they are made.
7. You will agree that representa­
tives of the press be present to make
notes of your address for publication and
examine your evidence, and, of course,
we shall gladly likewise comply.
5. The debate will be confined to your
changes, the ones you have been making
in books against AMORC, and your at­
tempts to substantiate your authenticity;
and AMORC will be confined to repu­
diating your charges and to substanti­
ating Its own authenticity.
S. The debate is to be held upon any
Sunday in November or December, 1935
— 40
—except upon a holiday, or two days
preceding a holiday, to avoid making It
impossible for the greatest number to
attend
10, You are to accept this fair chal­
lenge In full, without evasion or modi­
fication on or before October 1, 1935.
I sincerely hope that you will not
once again resort to your customary
evasion by -wishing to have only a lim­
ited group make a private investigation,
or that you will not suddenly, as in the
past, find the public platform too large
and wen illuminated for your claims and
that you will not state, as heretofore,
your dislike for debates and your pref­
erence for publishing one-sided books
behind whose covers the real facts are
concealed; but instead will, in a frank
manner, come out into the open, per­
mitting an inquiry by the general in­
terested public.
Very truly yours,
H. Spencer Lewis, Imperator,
KOSICRtTCIAN ORDER,
(AMORC).
Is m . O y m ix A fraid
C$ys*r - » « * $ { ' ft
e the
W fll Mr.
again dodge
statements atic
committee hnestSgshoatl
true that Mr. Qysatr 3* *
of the opes pafcoe | t 0 x
cisJly the experience <i
Lewis in pubiic debate? What
veloua opportunity for Mr. CSjuaer
expose A M O R C and Br, Lr»i» S!'
really has anything that would t
light of an open public platform :
tlgation! la it possible that Mr. <
cannot speak for himself la the j
of those he accuses? Is it also
that Mr. Clymer remains at his “farm
headquarters" because he fears pubiic
scrutiny of Ids ability to meet as op­
ponent face to face where replies to
his charges would immediately be made
in his presence? Will he accept or
evade? Fast experiences seem to bear
out the belief that Mr. Clymer is afraid
to debate Dr. Lewis In public.
;
—41—
