{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__harding___why_red_indians_are_spirit_guides.pdf","mytitle":"Why Red Indians Are Spirit Guides","mylang":"de"}
W hy R ed Indians
Spirit Guides .
* * * * * *
i #
rtjS'
‘S'
By Frederic Harding
WHY RED INDIANS
ARE
SPIRIT GUIDES
By FREDERIC HARDING
Price, Ten Cents in America and Six Pence
in British Isles.
Most people have been brought up without
realizing how real and true is the invisible
world which is in and about this visible world
of ours. Most people never find it out until
they themselves have actually become a part
of that world which ordinary human sight
does not know.
But to a small portion of humanity,—in
one way or another—does come the truth
about Spirit-life and its relation to the earth-
life. That small fraction of knowing ones are
very fortunate. It is a privilege to be among
their number and to have the benefit of that
rare wisdom.
Now when a person first contacts this truth,
there always seem so many strange things
about it. When Spiritualism is met for the
first time, there are so many surprising new
facts to be learned. This is because the ideas
we were taught to believe all our lives were
so different from the real truth.
Perhaps one of the queerest facts which
the newcomer into Spiritualism meets, is the
frequency with which there appear from the
Spirit-side of life, members of a race of peo­
ple which had not been thought about since
childhood’s adventurous imaginings.
Most men and women grow up in a grad­
ually increasing forgetfulness of the original
3
natives of this American continent. But when
they find out the absolute truth of the Spirit­
ualistic phenomena, they are brought into a
vivid and insistent relationship with the Spir­
its of the Red Skins. Indians are everywhere
in mediumship. To be aware of Spiritualistic
truth in America, and to some extent in other
countries, is to ibe aware of the Red Man.
Now it is natural that the newcomer is
puzzled and perhaps a little confused by all
these vigorous Spirits of Indians who make
themselves known. Not having thought about
these people for years, the novice in Spirit­
ualism wonders to himself why these Red
Men and Women in the next life, are so
much at home and so very strong in every­
thing that is done at their end of the com­
munication line in manifestations through
earthly mediums.
Perhaps, too, some of us who have been
acquainted for some time with the true con­
ditions in the Universe as revealed through
modern Spiritualism, may not understand
this matter. We may not have stopped to
think why there are faithful and amusing
little Indian girls to make us laugh when we
are getting too sad in circles and all those
loyal, strong Braves in nearly everybody’s
Band of Guides.
Yet if we reflect upon and examine the
history of the Red Man,—before the coming
of the White Man,—we can begin to under­
stand why all the communication through
mortal instruments today is such a joy to
these discarnate Indians. Let us look into it
and see why things of the Spirit come so
easily and naturally to the Red Man on the
other side of the veil between the two states
of Life.
4
The first thing we begin to learn is that
things of the Spirit came very easily and
naturally to these people while they were still
in the flesh.
Before the white people landed and began
spreading, and crowding the natives here in
America, many centuries had passed by while
these copper-complexioned folk had the
whole land to themselves.
During the long stretch of time, millions
of their Spirits passed the earth-term of
their eternal lives here, in a way which
brought them very close to Nature. Then
they passed on to the etheric spheres of Na­
ture with a marvellous knowledge of the ex­
pressions of the Infinite, to make the way
easy and clear for them over there.
For all this great number of Spirits had
closely studied and greatly loved what we
call the “physical Phenomena of Nature.” In
addition, all this vast number of Spirits for
generation after generation, had had a thor­
ough idea of Nature’s spiritual phenomena.
One of the chief characteristics of this race
of people, all alone here with a whole conti­
nent to themselves, was their great love for
their land and all it contained. They loved
its superb scenic beauty. They were content
with its frugal but sufficient bounty of food,
clothing and shelter, which they had to win
for themselves in constant struggle, making
them keen, alert and active.
They loved their chance to be alive and
thought it a blessing from the Almighty Cre­
ative Power which they spoke of among
themselves as “The Great Spirit.”
Until the white conquerors and missionar­
ies arrived, the Red People never thought of
God made as a Man who sat on a throne in
5
some far-off Heaven. They regarded the In­
finite as a Power with an intelligence whose
might extended everywhere into all things.
They had no creeds nor clergy, no mythologi­
cal systems of deities. They worshipped one
God. And they called this Power that thought
life into all living things, “Manitou” or in
their tongue, “The Great Spirit.”
God, to them, was Unity.
God could not be divided,—not into three
parts nor into any other number.
Modern Spiritualism brings to us the same
revelation as must have been brought, here
in America, centuries ago to these primitive
inhabitants. God is One; God is Infinite; God
is a Power that thinks. The revelations to the
Indians through their mediumistic “Medicine
Men” agreed with ours of today through our
mediums, for they believed that to the brave
and worthy, God proved in the hereafter to
be Love.
“The Great Spirit!” In all the religious
history of the races of mankind, no name
for Infinite Intelligence has been thought of
which was better than that, for truth and
simplicity and forcefulness.
What did all these Spirits of Nature-lovers,
these out-door wandering folk, do when they
found themselves separated from their old
physical identity with the Nature of Earth?
Truly enough, they were in the Spirit
World of wonderful etheric beauty, real in
itself to their spirit senses. A Happy Hunting
Ground with the joy of the chase but with­
out the “kill.” But still they had dearly loved
that old America. They were still aware of
it. Whenever thought-avenues opened to
them which they could use to impress and so
to mingle mentally once more with material
6
conditions, they liked to use them. Further­
more, they tell us that it has always been the
custom of the Angel Masters who act for the
Infinite, to honor the Red Men in spirit with
the responsible duty of acting as pickets or
guardians of the integrity of lines of com­
munication, once such are opened between
the two worlds.
The Indians among spirit Guides must
keep away from and out of the medium’s
aura and range of instrumentality, mischiev­
ous and trifling entities which are attracted
by the light of an operating line of mani­
festations. Even more, they repel the entities,
'—singly and in bands who are malevolent,—
and who would destroy the comfort and as­
surance that mediumship brings to bereaved
and despairing humanity. Such exist!
The spirit Red Man patrols and keeps them
out. As Mr. George Valiantine’s Guide calls
himelf, they are the “traffic cops.” Why?
Because in all the history of the Red Man,
despite false slanders, he was in the begin­
ning before the white man tricked and cor­
rupted him, the most loyal person to his trust.
This trait of loyalty is recognized by the Spirit
World and honor is done the Indian accord­
ingly. And by this service to others, he is
able to progress and to better his nature.
This liking of the Red Spirits to continue
to contact their beloved country of earth, is
very different from that condition which we
call “earth-bound.” The Indians are not
bound. They do it because they like it. They
do not have to return to or linger near their
material surroundings of old.
Now “earth-bound souls” have lead such
unworthy physical careers that their selfish
misdeeds tie them down and hold them back
7
MARION SKIDMORE LIBRARY
LILY DALE,« Y.
some far-off Heaven. They regarded the In­
finite as a Power with an intelligence whose
might extended everywhere into all things.
They had no creeds nor clergy, no mythologi­
cal systems of deities. They worshipped one
God. And they called this Power that thought
life- into all living things, “Manitou” or in
their tongue, “The Great Spirit.”
God, to them, was Unity.
God could not be divided,—not into three
parts nor into any other number.
Modern Spiritualism brings to us the same
revelation as must have been brought, here
in America, centuries ago to these primitive
inhabitants. God is One; God is Infinite; God
is a Power that thinks. The revelations to the
Indians through their mediumistic “Medicine
Men” agreed with ours of today through our
mediums, for they believed that to the brave
and worthy, God proved in the hereafter to
be Love.
“The Great Spirit!” In all the religious
history of the races of mankind, no name
for Infinite Intelligence has been thought of
which was better than that, for truth and
simplicity and forcefulness.
What did all these Spirits of Nature-lovers,
these out-door wandering folk, do when they
found themselves separated from their old
physical identity with the Nature of Earth?
Truly enough, they were in the Spirit
World of wonderful etheric beauty, real in
itself to their spirit senses. A Happy Hunting
Ground with the joy of the chase but with­
out the “kill.” But still they had dearly loved
that old America. They were still aware of
it. Whenever thought-avenues opened to
them which they could use to impress and so
to mingle mentally once more with material
6
conditions, they liked to use them. Further­
more, they tell us that it has always been the
custom of the Angel Masters who act for the
Infinite, to honor the Red Men in spirit with
the responsible duty of acting as pickets or
guardians of the integrity of lines of com­
munication, once such are opened between
the two worlds.
The Indians among spirit Guides must
keep away from and out of the medium's
aura and range of instrumentality, mischiev­
ous and trifling entities which are attracted
by the light of an operating line of mani­
festations. Even more, they repel the entities,
-
—singly and in bands who are malevolent,—
and who would destroy the comfort and as­
surance that mediumship brings to bereaved
and despairing humanity. Such exist!
The spirit Red Man patrols and keeps them
out. As Mr. George Valiantine’s Guide calls
himelf, they are the “traffic cops.” Why?
Because in all the history of the Red Man,
despite false slanders, he was in the begin­
ning before the white man tricked and cor­
rupted him, the most loyal person to his trust.
This trait of loyalty is recognized by the Spirit
World and honor is done the Indian accord­
ingly. And by this service to others, he is
able to progress and to better his nature.
This liking of the Red Spirits to continue
to contact their beloved country of earth, is
very different from that condition which we
call “earth-bound.” The Indians are not
bound. They do it because they like it. They
do not have to return to or linger near their
material surroundings of old.
Now “earth-bound souls” have lead such
unworthy physical careers that their selfish
misdeeds tie them down and hold them back
7
MARION SKIDMORE LIBRARY
LILY DALE, K Y.
in spiritual darkness until a purging occurs
slowly through higher aspiration and service
to others. This is not the case with the red-
spirits. With them, it is a matter of free will
and of service. They have great spiritual
power which is of the utmost use in the deli­
cate “tuning in” which goes with setting up
vibratory conditions which will admit of com­
munication through mediumship. They de­
light in the ease and strength with which
they can help. In a way, this service of theirs
is glorifying God, for it is proving and ex­
pressing their qualifications which they
earned through loving God’s manifestations
which we call Nature.
We white people did not treat the Indians
very well. We broke faith with them, taught
them evil ways and took their possessions.
We now live on that land which they used to
love. We are many. But as a result of the cen­
turies of time that Indians lived here before
we came, their Spirits are many, too. We
have little idea how many there are. They
have forgiven us for what we did to them or
to their descendants.
Among us, they find individuals who attract
them, who give their spirits congenial out­
lets. They attach themselves to these indi­
viduals, to guide and to protect and to
strengthen them during their terms of earth-
life.
So we get some idea why the Indians from
the Spirit side of life like to enter into me-
diumistic manifestations and why they like to
join bands of Guides.
But now let us see why it is that they do
this so well. Let us see why the girls, or
squaws appearing as girls, make such mar­
vellous little “messenger” or “jester” guides
8
to dispell possible gloomy thoughts which
might intensify the nervous condition of the
sitters and so inhibit the functioning of the
phenomena. And why the braves make such
able pickets and why their medicine men
make such strong resourceful healers. We
shall have to look at their spiritual ideas and
at their ways of living, in groups and as in­
dividuals.
To be rightly understood, the moral and
spiritual life of the Red Men must be divided
into two periods. The first is the time be­
fore the coming of the whites, when the
minds of the native Americans were attuned
in a simple and genuine harmony with the
Infinite Spirit in all things.
The second period dates from the Indians'
contacts with the white people from across
the great waters. It is of the Indians of this
latter period that nearly all our literature of
Indian life has to tell. The stories show an
increasingly debased type of people, different
from the Indians’ own stories of what their
race used to be like.
In the .first period extending for centuries
was rooted and built up the spiritual strength
and harmony of their kind. It is this herit­
age of noble appreciation,—of keen and clear
wisdom of Nature in all her moods and as­
pects,—which gives to the discamate Red
Spirits their power and grace in our times.
It was the white man’s greed, his abuse of
the earliest trust of the natives, his false
trading, his loose moral code, his inconsist­
ent religious life, and above all, his “fire
water,” which gradually and inevitably cor­
rupted, embittered and ruined the spiritual
life of the Red People.
Of the countless thousands of free men and
9
women, worshippers of the Great Spirit, who
were here before those tiny ships of Columbus
arrived, there remain today 'but a few thou­
sands of survivors. They have little left of
the spiritual legacy which should be theirs,
from those ancestors so close to Nature. We
should not judge the Soul of the Indian, the
Spirits we know through mediumship, by
these relics of a formerly great race of man­
kind.
No, we must look back at the original na­
tives as they were before their invaders
spoiled them.
When the Red People lived alone in Amer­
ica, they had some beautifully poetic ideas
about what the Great Spirit wanted them to
do with their earth-lives and what awaited
them after leaving their earthly bodies. They
were, originally, generous, fair-dealing and
spiritually humble. They lived the great
maxim of Andrew Jackson Davis, “to hold an
even mind under all circumstances.” Espe­
cially were they silent. One of their wise
men declared that the fruits of silence were
“self-control, true courage and endurance, pa­
tience, dignity and reverence.”
In eating and in all bodily indulgence, they
were temperate. They used a great amount of
hard exercise, especially at running and
swimming. In their original days, they took
frequent vapor-baths, which they managed
by pouring water on heated stones inside of
a wigwam.
They held a high regard for personal honor
and for cleanliness of life and ideals and for
unflinching bravery. Even after familiarity
with the loose and deceitful ways of white
pioneers had spoilt their standards, these
traits lasted. They used to hold annual cere-
10
monies of a somewhat religious nature to im­
press upon the young men and women their
obligation to their personal honor.
They felt deeply that material possessions
held a menace to their prized freedom and
to their spiritual ideals. So they gave away
everything they gained or won until there
remained only such things as they couldn't
do without. Among the Red People, mean sel­
fish individuals were despised and were held
up as bad examples to the children. Those
rare members of their tribes who wanted to
spend their lives in one spot of ground, farm­
ing and collecting domesticated animals, were
regarded with contempt by the true Indian.
To the orphans and the aged, the whole
tribe would be kind. Although a reputation
for bravery in fighting would be eagerly
sought, that same mighty warrior, when at
home with his squaw and children and old
parents, was gentle as he smoked his pipe
by his wigwam.
As they never locked up anything, having
neither doors nor windows, nor strong-boxes,
a proven thief was among them, an object
of life-long scorn.
The great Seneca orator, Red Jacket, in his
reply to a missionary named Cram, declared:
“We have a religion which was given to
our forefathers and has been handed down to
us, their children. It teaches us to be thank­
ful, to be united and to love one another.”
There is a certain familiar ring about these
words, is there not? Not bad for a so-called
VPagan,” supposed by the missionaries from
Europe to be dwelling in dense spiritual dark­
ness.
As children, the boys and girls were taught
that their relationship with Manitou was
11
strictly individual. All their lives, they car­
ried out this idea. The Indian nearly always
worshipped alone, usually at sunrise or sun­
set. Apart from very rare occasions of cere­
mony, they did not worship in groups. The
Red Man went to Manitou in solitude, be­
cause he recognized that the binding of his
own Spirit to the Great Spirit was a thing
with which no one else had anything to do. He
knew that he needed no spiritual interces­
sor with his God. He needed no human medi­
ator to plead for him. He and Manitou were
always face to face.
In this, he was aware of a great truth.
Those white missionaries who, later on,
called him “infidel” and “heathen,” did not
know this great truth that he knew.
Among the Red People, no one meddled
with another’s religious life. They respected
the intimacy of each man and woman with
the Great Spirit. Among all their many tribes
and in all the wars into which their daring
natures lead them, the Indians never fought
over religion.
With a pitiful contrast to this fact is shown
by the history of European races with their
cruel struggles over creeds!
The Red Man had no temples nor shrines
nor sanctuaries. Wherever he was, that place
was where God was. The Great Spirit was
ever near at hand, in all things at all times.
Among them, nobody ever preached God, but
nobody ever denied God.
When the Red Man lifted up his lean
bronzed arms to the rising Sun, his rugged
head thrown back, his keen eyes welcoming
again the glow of Day, a few muttered words
of invocation coming spontaneously to his lips,
he was tuning in closely with the Infinite.
12
When he studied hour after hour, the ways
and habits of every living thing,—animal,
bird, reptile, fish and insect,—until he knew
them all better than has done any other race
of men in history, he was mentally vibrating
as close to Mother Nature as it is possible
for humanity to bring itself.
When he learned by patient search, all
about the trees and bushes and flowers and
more especially about those barks and herbs
and roots which drove away sickness and
were good for burns and sprains, he devel­
oped a lore of medicine.
This lore his healers were able to make
stronger by their spiritual mediumship and
by the co-operation of the spirit healing forc­
es. For there were a great variety of won­
derfully developed mediums among the Red
People. The mental phases especially proph­
ecy, were common and often amazingly true.
The physical phases were powerful and prov­
ed how the Great Spirit was in everything.
For the collection and condensation of the
ectoplastic discharge needed for levitation
and for direct voice and for materialization,
there couldn’t be imagined a better cabinet
than was made by a wigwam with it’s nar­
row slit of an opening.
Is it any wonder that incarnate spirits who
had lived such lives of intimacy with Nature’s
truths,—when passing out of the flesh,—
should make such able helpers in spirit com­
munication through mediumship? Especially
when we remember that these people when
on earth had absolutely no injurious counter-
interests of business or cities or collective
scheming or confinement indoors in artificial
occupations. Remember, too, that the sole
nervous stimulant they had was tobacco.
13
It becomes easier to understand why we
hear so much of the Indians in Spiritualism
in America.
For as we have just hinted, it is a fact that
the life of our modern so-called “civilization"
with all it's complex conventions and un­
natural ways of thinking and living, puts Na­
ture so far away from our souls that we who
live it, suffer a great spiritual loss.
What are those powerful impulses we get
once in a while to go off on, a camping trip
in the woods away from everything? It is the
starved soul crying out to our consciousness
for spiritual sustenance, for a vibration closer
to the harmonies of the Infinite!
Yes, we who adopt the conventional modes
of life, find that it serves best for the end of
material gain and for soft fleshly comforts.
But there are a few of us who realize how
dearly bought, spiritually, are these goods of
this world.
In his original condition, the Red Man had
few settlements which might be called per­
manent, except in the far Southwest. The
Indian of the forest and of the plain was by
nature, a trapper and hunter rather than a
farmer or a trader. He liked to move about.
He wanted to carry as few articles of posses­
sion as he could do with. What little he could
not dispense with, he packed on his pony’s
back, or it must be admitted, upon his squaw’s
back. But this was because he had to keep
his own arms always free to use his weap­
ons for defence or for killing game for food.
•Now it is significant that when the orig­
inal Red Man killed an animal for food,—he
never killed for so-called “sport,’’—he wished
the animal’s departing spirit a good life in it's
next condition, saying he was very sorry he
14
had had to take its earthly body to eat.
No, the Indian could not bear to be housed
in nor to be confined to one place. He wanted
to roam, to see this world which Manitou had
made for his own Spirit to enjoy while it was
still in the flesh. And so, sacrificing as a wan­
derer, the worldly benefits of accumulated
possessions, the Red Man gained despite his
hardships and privations, a rich spiritual har­
vest of power and understanding. So to some
extent have done all open-air wanderers
among mankind. Those who have lived where
solitude and great open spaces were all about
them and vast star-lit firmaments overhead,
have always drawn close to the Infinite. The
men on old sailing-vessels on long voyages
became sensitive to Spirit influences. The
shepherds of all times and all races have be­
come canny in their isolation. On the desert,
the Arabs became aware that they were not
alone on that terrific expanse of sand but that
they were in touch with another although an
invisible world. So did the Red People in
their immense forests and upon their enor­
mous prairies.
Such is the treasure of ancestral traits upon
which the Red Spirits are drawing today in
our own Bands of Guides. This is the back­
ground by which we should judge these well-
known friends in the next Spheres of Life
as they demonstrate through nearly every
medium in America today.
What a pleasure it is to understand these
facts!
Now we can welcome and trust these Red
Friends more than ever before when we re­
alize how close to the Great Spirit they lived
when on this wonderful country of ours that
15
we now call the United States,—and truly,
too, Canada.
We can remember how the Indians scorn­
ed death. They had not the least dread of it!
They knew its real nature. All they sought
was to end this earth-life honorably, and
above all else,—unafraid. Their faith in the
Spirit World knew no bounds.
Ours should be the same!
We who know the proofs of Spiritualism
can face the inevitable transition before us
with the same calm courage as did the In­
dian. And although the loss of the earthly
companionship of loved ones is often a cruel
and bitter trial to us who have been left
behind here, yet we share the Red Man’s
trust in the ending of that distress of sep­
aration in a final re-uniting in a happier
world.
We have the knowledge he had!
It is a knowledge as old as time, always
waiting for open minds to allow it to enter
and to be at home. The knowledge that the
Great Spirit is in all, that it is all, that there
is nothing enduring but Spirit and that Spirit
knows no end and can know no end.
And to my own faithful and loved Guide,
Big Horn of the Cherokee tribe, I now give
my thanks for his aid in the preparation of
this lesson about his people; I know that he
has been helping.
M ARION SKIDMORE LIBRARY
UlY DALE, l i Y ,
