{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__grandon___the_margery_mediumship____ajspr_feb_1935.pdf","mytitle":"The Margery Mediumship","mylang":"de"}
■
---SEjEP
J v L
m
T H E M A R G E R Y M E D I U M S H I P
THE “WALTER” THUMBPRINTS
A letter from the President.
AND
An experiment apparently exhibiting (a) clairvoyance; (b) the apport of a solid
from place to place; and (c) the passage of solid matter through solid matter.
by
L. R. G. CRANDON
Reprinted from the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. XXIX. No. 2.
FEBRUARY
1935
I
DALE NEWS, Inc.
Lily Dale, N. Y. ms*i
T H E “W A L T E R ” T H U M B P R IN T S
ALETTER FROMTHE PRESIDENT
* * * * *
A m e ric a n S o ciety fo r P sy ch ical R esearch, Inc.
Fifteen Lexington Avenue
l^ew Yor^
WILLIAM H. BUTTON
President
27 Cedar Street, New York, N. Y.
January 22, 1935.
Mr. F. Bligh Bond, Editor,
15 Lexington Avenue New York, N. Y.
Dear Mr. Bond:
Will you please print the following as a matter of record of two misstatements of
fact that have appeared in reference to the Walter'Kerwin thumbprint discussion. I
do not wish to imply that these are the only two.
One. By Mr. Arthur Goadby. In Bulletin XXII of the Boston S.P.R., page
71, April, 1934, referring to the thumbprint obtained by the writer at a solus sitting
occurring on March 13, 1931, Mr. Goadby said,
“With its date and identifying marks still clearly recognized upon it, Button im-
mediately brought it to New York where it was photographed and published in the
Journal and an enlarged photograph made which was hung on the wall in the
Board room of Hyslop House, where for a year it was exhibited as the picture of
a particularly fine “Walter” print. When, however, Dudley's discovery was re*
ported it was removed from the wall and disappeared.”
The above statement is untrue. The fact is that no enlarged photograph of the
print obtained at the solus sitting referred to was ever made and no such photograph
was ever exhibited at Hyslop House. There was an enlarged photograph of some
thumbprint exhibited there.* It was there at least a year before the sitting in ques'
tion took place. I have no knowledge as to who took it there or as to what became of
it.
Two. By Doctor Harold Cummins, a professor at Tulane University.
In the Journal of the A.S.P.R. of January, 1934, I had reproduced two micro'
photographs of the deltas of the respective right thumbprints of Walter and of Doctor
Kerwin, with the statement that the illustrations were reproduced because a casual
inspection of them would convince anyone that the two prints were not the same.
In Bulletin XXII, Boston S.P.R., page 12, April 1934, Doctor Cummins remarks
that a casual inspection by one who is not expert would give that impression but that
under analysis these differences are harmonized.
Doctor Cummins, however, was confronted by a troublesome hurdle which he
had to get over in order to substantiate his contention.
In this regard he states,
“One of the most deceptive features of the comparative photographs is that the two
areas are shown at different magnifications.”
*The print in question w
as that obtained at the 24th sitting w
hich took place on August
30th, 1927 in the presence of M
r. 6
?M
rs. Carl Litzelm
ann, Dr. &M
rs. W
hittem
ore, M
r. E. E.
Dudley, and Dr. Crandon. It is referred to in the Journal for February 1928 (p. 112) and
again in the August issue; and is illustrated on p. 467, as N
o. 41 of the series. Ed.
1
_ . , . ■ „...„.vated among other things, by the fact that the illustra-
tions ptnlyn
C
showntha“ the ridges are further apart in one illustration than in the
EsilB*
*IE B sai?e mag-
as a matter oi ia , the difference in distance between
m M M a^rcuiMtance alone sufficient to differentiate the two prints.
Therels no'basS whatsoever for the abovestatement by Doctor Cummins
I 'reiterate what I said in January 1934, to the effect that a casual examination
•of thes^Tillustrations demonstrates the difference between these prints, and I add to
that statement that an analytical examination of them leads to the same conclusion.
• Very truly yours,
WHB.iOW im j H BUTTON
2 THE MARGERY MEDIUM SHIP
T H E M A R G E R Y M E D IU M S H IP
An experiment exhibiting (a) clairvoyance; (b) the apport of a solid from place to
place; and (c) the passage of solid matter through solid matter.
By L. R. G. Crandon
* * * * *
SUMMARY
A plaster of Paris cake was prepared by a perfect stranger, Mr. W.
B. Minthom, Druggist of Petoskey, Michigan, U. S. A. and was received
in New York by Mr. F. Bligh Bond about September 1, 1932, and Mr.
Bond referred it to the Margery circle in Boston. In this cake were im-
bedded several articles known only to Mr. Minthom. As a result of
two years' observation of this cake by Walter, the Margery control, the
following results have been obtained.
(1) Walter described accurately the articles imbedded in the cake;—
(a) a small corked glass vial; (b) a druggist label with W . B. MINTHORN
printed upon it; and ;(c) a small chain of 7 links.
(2) Then with no break-iti. the cake Walter extracted from it the
corked vial containing a label with W . B. MINTHORN printed on it,
but not the chain. When, however, the cake was shaken there could be
heard a sound as of a small chain in the cavity previously occupied by the
vial.
(3) The cake and vial, side by side, were photographed in Boston.
(4) The cake and vial were wrapped separately in cotton, were
packed in a single wooden box and were mailed to Mr. Minthom in
Petoskey, Michigan.
. U ) received by Mr. Minthom the box contained apparently
only the plaster of Paris cake. The vial had disappeared, but x-ray by Mr.
Minthom indicated the vial within the cake. Walter evidently had put
it back m to the cake en route.
(6) The unbroken cake was then opened by Mr. Minthom and the
wal with the enclosed printed label was found intact, firmly imbedded in
the plaster. 7
(7) The 7'linked chain, however, was missing.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 3
(8) In Boston on November 17, 1934, Walter dangled against the
hands of three sitters in the Margery circle (in the dark) an object which
was apparently a small piece of metal chain.
(9) On November 21, 1934, there was presented to Mr. Thorogood,
by Walter, a piece of a small more or less rusty chain containing 7 links.
(10) This 7-linked chain was sent to Mr. Minthom who certified
to the fact that this was the chain placed in the glass vial and subsequently
imbedded in the original plaster of Paris cake.
EXTRACTS FROM SITTINGS AND CO
PIES OF CORRESPONDENCE RELATING TO
THE A
BO
V
E PHENOMENA
The following are extracts from sittings all held at 10 Lime Street,
Boston, Massachusetts, and copies of correspondence pertinent to the ex­
periment together with comments thereon.
About September 1, 1932, Mr. W. B. Minthom, of Petoskey, Michi­
gan, sent to Mr. F. Bligh Bond, Editor of the Journal, A.S.P.R., a solid
cake of plaster of Paris with a statement that it contained several articles
and with the request that it be sent to Lime Street for experiment. The
cake was approximately of the dimensions of three by two by one inches.
On September 10, 1932, this plaster of Paris block was put on the
table in the seance room and Walter was told that there were three things
in it and was requested to state what they were. At the end of the sitting
the block had disappeared, Walter saying that the block had gone.
On September 23, 1932, the following conversation occurred.
Walter: “Who sent that plaster of Paris cake?”
Mr. Button: “A man out West.”
Walter: “I will tell you what is in it. There is a small bottle, a little
bottle like a Carter Liver Pill bottle and a small metal chain with seven
links. There is a cork in the bottle. As far as I can see that is all there
is in that thing.”
Mr. Button: “Shall we send it back to him with that information?”
Walter: “I will verify it and send it back perfect.”
On October 13, 1932, Walter said, “Plaster of Paris will be returned.
Contents noted. Small bottle name Codine. Metal chain of seven links.”
October 31, 1932, the plaster of Paris block appeared on the table in
the seance room and the following occurred. Something could be heard
rattling and Walter said, “Hear the little chain in the bottle.”
Mrs. Richardson: “That didn’t rattle when we received it.”
Walter: “That’s right. When you received it the chain didn’t rattle.
I loosened it in the bottle. There is a piece of paper curled up inside
the bottle. He wrinkled it all up in a knot. It is a terrible thing to read.
Did you say this is plaster of Paris?”
Dr. Crandon: “Yes, it is.”
Walter: “I wouldn’t say it was. It seems like soap-stone to me.”
Thereupon Dr. Crandon wrote the following letter to Mr, Minthom,
4 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
October 31, 1932.
Dear Mr. Minthorn:
Walter has been investigating your cake of plaster of Paris and he bids me to
write to you a preliminary report.
As a preliminary report he wishes us to tell you that the plaster of Paris cake
contains a bottle, something like a Carter’s little liver pill bottle, with a cork, and
also says there is a fine chain containing seven links.
Walter begs your comment on this preliminary report.
L. R. G. Crandon.
On November 2, 1932, Mr. Minthorn replied as follows.
Dear Doctor,
Your letter just received, I can’t tell you how much pleased I am at the re­
port Walter has made. Congratulations, He is 100% correct in so far as he has
gone. The cake of plaster contains a small Homeo. Vial 2 drachm. About the
size of a “Carters Pill” bottle. And a piece of chain—consisting of seven links.
It also has a piece of paper with a name on it. Still this is a very wonderful test.
I sure dowant to thar^Jcyou and Walter also. * * * *
I was hoping Walter might be able to get these articles out of the plaster
block without injuring ifc,in any way. Maybe I don’t fully realize what passing
matter thru matter means: I have supposed it means to disintegrate the atoms of
one article and after bringing them thru the container to assemble them again.
I will appreciate it very much if you will send me the plaster block when
you have finished any further experiments with it. We have an organization here
and I know my friends will be glad to hear what I have learned from this test.
It was in the Aug., 1932 Psychic Research Journal that I saw the account of
Walter bringing the articles”thru the sealed box. Maybe the plaster block was
too severe a test: still I consider it a very great test.
The finger print almost past belief. I have seen some spirit pheno­
mena but never anything to compare with this.
Well, doctor, I want to thank you again. It is fine of you to go to all the
trouble to put this test over to a stranger.
I will be very glad to hear from you further.
Yours truly
(Signed) W. B. Minthorn
Doctor Crandon’s letter of Oct. 31 did not mention the paper label
in the bottle. His letter was written before the sitting of that evening,
at which sitting, Walter first mentioned the label which is referred to in
Mr. Minthom’s reply, dated two days later.
On October 31," 1932, the plaster of Paris block was left on the table
in the seance room, but the next evening, November 1, 1932, upon ex-
amination it had disappeared. During the course of this sitting, the fol-
lowing occurred. Walter: “The plaster of Paris block is in Dr. Richard'
son s hand. ’ Doctor Richardson admitted that the block was then put
in his hand. Bright light was turned on, and all the sitters saw it. It was
taken from his hand and Walter said, “It’s now in Mr. Jones’ right
hand.” The light was put on and it was so observed. Walter then di­
rected the stenographer to take this down. “Word Codeine. Small bot­
tle with a cork with chain inside the bottle. So is the name Codeine.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 5
There is an extra ‘e’ in Codeine. This is an extraordinary experiment.
One side of block a little wider than the other. First base wide. Second
base narrow. Third base wide. Fourth base narrow.”
A t the end of this sitting, the plaster of Paris block had again disap­
peared.
November 2, 1932, the block was not on table. Walter shortly an­
nounced that it was on the table. This was confirmed by Mr. Button
and Miss May Walker, who felt it on the table. The light was put on
and all the sitters announced that they saw what appeared to be a hand.
Walter said it was his hand picking up the plaster of Paris and taking it
away. Something was put into Doctor Richardson’s hand and he was
told to give it to Mr. Button. This was done and it was identified as
the plaster of Paris block which was put on the table.
The block then remained there for sometime but on December 21,
1932, Walter announced that he was taking the block away and when
he brought it back the insides would be outside. He said he had it in the
fourth dimension.
On June 10, 1933, there were present only Margery, Mr. and Mrs.
Bigelow, Doctor Crandon and Mr. Jones. The medium was searched and
in a few minutes Walter came through and there was handed to Mrs.
Bigelow, the plaster of Paris block. Walter said he had taken out the pill
bottle with the label inside and these articles were also put into Mrs. Bige­
low’s hand. Walter then said, “The chain of seven links I have left in
the cake. You can hear it if you shake it. It is free within the space
formerly occupied by the bottle or vial.”
The next night, June 11, 1933, the plaster of Paris block was handed
to Mr. Bigelow and then to Mr. Button, with the bottle outside of the
cake. Walter then ordered the cake to be shaken and a noise could be
heard as of the chain rattling inside of it.
On June 21, 1933, Walter gave Doctor Richardson the plaster of
Paris block which he handed to Mr. Button. The bottle was then handed
to Doctor Richardson and they were instructed to put the block and the
bottle in a drawer in a bureau in the bedroom on the bookroom floor;.
This was done. They remained there for a long period. Walter instructed
the sitters not to write Minthom about it until he gave permission, giv­
ing as reasons, among other things, that he was trying to separate these
articles from the medium and he did not think any report on it should be
published until Thorogood’s report was out.
On tacit permission from Walter, however, Doctor Crandon wrote
Mr. Minthom as follows.
July 6, 1933
Dear Mr. Minthom:—
Walter has extracted a glass vial with its contents from the solid cake of
plaster of Paris. We have not taken out the paper in the bottle. Walter nowsays
that the seven link chain is in the cavity made by the little bottle, and sure enough
on shaking you can hear it. There are no apparent signs of a break, old or new,
in the plaster of Paris cake. * * * *
L. R. G. Crandon
6 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
On July 8, 1933, Mr. Minthom replied as follows.
Dear Doctor, , _. , . ,
I can hardly tell you how pleased I am to get your letter. That surely is good
work. * * * * *
Now doctor here is what I would like to do. If you will send the plaster
block back, together with bottle containing paper, I will I am the only one that
would be competent to identify it—take it to a Dr. Burns—prominent doctor here—
and Mr. Chamberlain he is a scientist, also two other reliable witnesses. We will
examine carefully and, also carefully cut block in two pieces.
I am very enthusiastic about this test, I think that would be fair to everyone
concerned. We would make affidavit,—all of us—and I will send you copy of
findings, also a copy to Frederick Bligh Bond, Editor, Psychic Research Journal.
I want you to have—you, Margery, and Walter—the honor and any publicity
that may come of the test. To me it is a very great test. I am sure I appreciate
the way you have taiken me up on the entire test.
If you have any other plan in mind I will be glad to cooperate. I think it
would be essential to a perfect test that I should identify the block before anything
is done as to opening it.
These two men above mentioned are interested in Psychic Phenomena and are
well qualified on any test.
We have a fairly well organized society of spiritualists in this city: if I can
put this test over here it will help us a lot.
Anyway I will be pleased to hear of any plan you desire.
Yours truly
W. B. Minthorn
On January 16, 1934, Walter requested the plaster of Paris block
be put on the table again. In the meantime, a large number of people had
heard the noise inside of the block as if the chain was loose in the cavity.
On January 19, 1934, the following occurred. Doctor Crandon:
“What about the plaster of Paris block?:sW hen we shake it now we can’t
hear the chain.” Walter: “The chain is stuck.”
For many months nothing happened except that Mr. Minthom wrote
several letters exhibiting some impatience that the block was not sent back
to him, but Walter had not yet released it. Various schemes of sending it
to Petoskey by Mr. Thorogood or others had been discussed but none of
them had been adopted.
On October 12, 1934, ^Valter said he would shortly release the plaster
of Paris block and directed that it be photographed.
On October 15, 1934, V/alter directed that the block be mailed to
Minthom. The plaster of Paris block with the bottle outside was brought
to the seance room and at Walter s suggestion the red light was put on
and all the sitters were able to see both the block and the bottle in which
there was a piece of paper curled up like a label. The bottle was not
opened at any time at Lime Street. A t this time the rattling inside the
plaster block could again be heard. At Walter’s suggestion, Mr. Kenney
went down stairs and secured a wooden box in which to pack these articles
and which had been specially constructed for the purpose. He brought it
into the seance room and Doctor Crandon placed the pasteboard box com
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 7
taining the plaster of Paris block, and the bottle, inside the wooden box.
After this sitting, downstairs in the book room, box was repacked and
cover screwed by Mr. Kenney and Dr. Theodore Hyde of Pierre, S.
Dakota, and addressed to Mr. Minthorn in Michigan.
At this sitting of October 15, there were present: Dr. Richardson, Mr.
O’Neill, Miss Lord, Mrs. Richardson, Doctor Crandon and the Medium.
Miss Barry, the stenographer, outside the circle. Doctor Hyde mailed the
box to Minthom and Doctor Crandon wrote him as follows.
Oct. 15, 1934.
Dear Mr. Minthom:—
Greetings!
Walter has authorized us to send you the plaster of Paris cake Tuesday or
Wednesday of this week. We will depend on you to photograph it, name your
Committee, and open up the box for further description of box and contents.
Faithfully yours,
L. R. G. Crandon
The following certificate was executed.
October 15, 1934
We saw the plaster of Paris cake in the paper candy box with the little vial
alongside it. A curled up piece of paper could be seen inside the glass vial. Mr.
Paul F. Kenney and Dr. Theodore Hyde then took the paper candy box contain­
ing the loose glass vial and the plaster cake (each object being wrapped separately
in cotton wool) and put it into a wooden box, protected on all sides by more cot­
ton wool, and then screwed on the lid.
We were told that this wooden box would be mailed next day first class to
Mr. W. B. Minthom, Petoskey, Michigan.
(Signed) Nonie B. Kenney
Josephine L. Richardson
Paul F. Kenney
Doctor Hyde is also able to certify to this but he is in the West and
his certification will be procured later.
Doctor Crandon also wrote Mr. Minthom as follows.
October 15, 1934
My dear Minthom:—
(1) Walter released your plaster of Paris cake tonight.
(2) Then and there in the dark seance room your plaster of Paris cake was
packed for mail.
(3) The mailing package consisted of a white pine box with the cover
screwed on. In this box was a paper candy box protected on all sides with cotton
wool. The paper candy box contained your plaster cake entirely intact so far
as we can tell. It also contained a small glass vial in which was apparently a
curled up piece of paper like a label. This vial was not opened by us.
(4) You undoubtedly have the date when we reported to you that the vial
had been taken out of the plaster cake.
8 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
• (5) The night that this vial came out of the plaster cake we were told by
Walter that the cake now contained only a piece of fine chain with six links,
and that if we shook the plaster cake we would be able to hear the bit of chain
rattling about in the space formerly occupied by the glass vial.
(6) And, so, indeed, scores of people have heard the chain-like sound on
shaking the plaster cake.
(7) The packing was done by Mr. Paul Kenney of Boston, and Dr. Theo­
dore Hyde of Pierre, So. Dakota. The cover was screwed down by him and the
box was addressed first-class to you and mailed October 16, 1934.
(8) Please let us know your results. Have your Committee big enough so
that a sufficient number of them may be willing to sign the apparent facts.
L. R. G. Crandon
There is reproduced here as figure 1, a photograph of the plaster of
Paris block and the bottle outside, as they appeared immediately before be­
ing mailed.
Fi|i„1
(1) Plaster of Paris cake made by W. B. Minthorn of Petoskey, M
ichigan.
(2) The sm
all vial, with label inside, imbedded in the fluent plaster of Paris, at the tim
e
of the making of the cake.
On October 18, 1934, Mr. Minthorn wrote as follows.
My dear Doctor:—
The box reached me this morning, containing the “plaster block,” packed as
your letter described. The block is the one I made and sent in. It has not been
tampered with.
But your letter says (3)—describes box, etc. says the paper candy box contains,
block and bottle in which was curled up a piece of paper, like a label.
I unpacked the box very carefully: there is no bottle in package. Just the
plaster block.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 9
I have not called my committee in yet. I don't know just what to do. I
wanted to have the block photographed with bottle beside it.
I think I will wait until I hear from you.
Faithfully yours,
(signed) W. B. Minthom
Mr. Minthom then sent the following statement, dated October 20,
1934.
STATEMENT OF W. B. MINTHORN, REG
A
RD
IN
G “PLASTER B
LO
C
K
.” SENT TO
D
R. C. FORTEST
In September 1932, I constructed this plaster block: size about three inches
long, one and three fourths inches wide, and one inch thick, made by pouring
plaster paris mortar into a box. In center of box I placed a small bottle—known
as homeo vial, two drachm—containing a piece of chain, consisting of seven links,
also a label with my name on. When the plaster had hardened I cut the box
away leaving a block of plaster with bottle imbedded in center.
I sent this blockto Mr. Frederick B. Bond, whoin turn sent it to Dr. Crandon,
neither party knowing what it contained.
In Jan. 1933, Dr. C. reported to me that Walter had given a preliminary of
its contents. Walter said “the blockcontains a small bottle, abqut size of a Carter’s
Liver Pill bottle, and a pieceof chain consisting of seven links". Which is correct
in detail except stating that it also contained a label.
Some few weeks later Dr. C. reported that the test was completed. The bottle
had been removed from the plaster block, and the chain was still inside of block
in cavity where bottle had been.
I have been asking that the block be sent to me, which it was, reaching me
Oct. 18, 1934.
The block has not been tampered with in any way, I will make affidavit that
it is the block I sent in about two years ago.
W. B. Minthorn.
Mr. Minthom also wrote as follows.
October 20, 1934
Dear Doctor:—
My letter of Oct. 18, will have reached you by this time, still I wanted to
tell you of my further investigations.
I did not want to call my witnesses in until I heard fromyou.
Here is the case so far. I am absolutely sure that the block is the one that I
sent. Will be willing to swear to it. Some of my friends think there is a chance
for substitution. That’s because they are human.
Next: It has not been tampered with. Next I did not have any trouble telh
ing themwhich end of the blockwas the cork end and which was butt of bottle.
We took it to a doctor P. an expert X^ray man. We marked the end of
block that I claimed was cork end, also marked film
, so there would be no mistake.
I went in the dark room and witnessed developing.
Result: Got a very fine, plain picture. Shows outline of bottle and cork very
plain. We are unable to say if picture is of bottle, or cavity. It sure is a fine
picture.
Now the mystery: You folks say the chain is still in the bottle. None of us
could hear it rattle, and x*ray showed that it is not in it.
10 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The x-ray is so plain it would show the chain very plain if it was there. For
instance, an x-ray of a filled tooth shows the filling a white spot very plain. We
will hold the block until I hear from you. I was surprised at the bottle not being
in the package when I opened it.
And it is a piystery as to where the chain has gone to. I am positive it is
not in the bottle.
Well my good friend, I sure thank you for the part I have been allowed to
have in this great test. It is all very wonderful to me. If you would like to see
this x-ray picture I will be glad to send it to you.
Faithfully yours,
W. B. Minthom
Upon receipt of the above letter a sitting was held on October 22nd,
1934, at which the following occurred;—
Walter: “All I ask Minthorn to do is to find the chain. I want to change
my statement about the label that is in the bottle. On the paper in little writing
is the word “codeine” and the additional information I am giving you is that the
name MINTHORN is printed on it. It looks like a letterhead paper, or some­
thing like that. Tell him to keep x-raying the cake. Maybe the chain will appear!"
Mr. Litzelmann: “Why not show us the chain here?"-''
Walter: “Not here. I am going to show it out there. Don’t get excited
over Minthom, because you haven’t seen anything yet!! Tell Minthom to play
with the plaster cake for awhile. He might find great developments. Let him
split it when he wants to. Maybe chain appears; maybe bottle appears; maybe
nothing appears! You can’t depend on WalterH Tell Minthom he can do what
he pleases with the cake. Especially watch for little chain, and especially note his
name in little bottle.
Doctor Crandon wrote Mr. Minthorn as follows.
October 24, 1934.
Dear Mr. Minthom:
This little experiment of yours bids fair to be much more complex and valu­
able than we expected.
October 1?, 1934, in the seance room, Walter announced that he would re­
lease the plaster of Paris cake, which had come originally from Mr. Minthom. He
then instructed me to get the cake down stairs and pack it securely in a candy box
lined with cotton.
Mr. Paul Kenney (a sitter), went to a bureau drawer in the back room and
from there brought a candy box, into the dark seance room. On handling the
cake several of us thought we heard a sound like a bit of chain within, the cake.
Dr. Richardson could not hear it.
Mrs. Richardson and I took the cake from the box in the dark and wrapped
it securely with cotton wool. We then took the unopened glass vial, which scores
of people have seen, out of the candy box and wrapped it securely and put it back
into the candy box. The candy box now then contained the cake and the glass
vial (containing a label), each wrapped separately, and the cover put on.
Walter then said concerning the glass vial that the paper it contained had
the name “Minthom’ on it.
The packed box at the end of the seance was taken down stairs and there was
shown to Mr. Paul Kenney, Dr. Theodore Hyde (of Pierre, S. D.) and Miss Barry,
stenographer, all of whom saw the cake and the vial separately wrapped and en-
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 11
closed in the candy box. Dr. Hyde and Mr. Kenney then put the candy box into
a white pine specially made box and the cover was fastened on with eight screws
(brass).
Next morningthis packagewas to be sent to Mr. Minthom, first class mail.
Faithfully yours,
L. R. G. Crandon
and he supplemented his letter as follows.
October 24, 1934
On receiving your letter noting the absence of the phial, we suspected at
once tricks of Walter. At a sitting held Oct. 22nd Walter, in a jocosemood, con'
firmed this suspicion. He said he had phial and chain in his possession, but would
not say where.
We also inferred that you might, in some unusual fashion, find these articles
in Petoskey. In any event, Walter made the suggestion that you have the block
X'rayed everyweek, before opening, for severalweeks.
L. R. G. Crandon
Mr. Minthorn replied as follows.
Oct. 26, 1934.
My dear doctor,
Just received your two letters a fewminutes ago. I amgetting more interested
in this test all the time.
I haven't anything new to report: have been waiting to hear from you. I
think as Walter suggests, that it would be the thing to do to defer opening the
block. We may get somethingbigger thanwe expect, yet fromthe test.
We cannot hear anything likea chain rattling in the cake. I amsure it is not
in the cake.
* * * * *
If anything newturns up write or wire me.
Wish Walter would give usmore definite instructions. I sure feel muchpleased
to be in on this.
Will hold Plaster Block until next week anyway.
I think it would be wise to hold until we hear fromyou again.
Fraternally Yours
W. B. Minthorn
Mr. Minthom wrote again as follows.
November 2, 1934
Dear Doctor.
Here is my last report. I ampretty well pleased. I had X-Ray taken of the
“plaster block” last Monday. No difference in picture except these last two are
much better, taken on large film
, and are very plain. Showed bottle but not
chain. Well that’s that
Here is the rest. Last night we cut the block open. I had my committee—
consisting of eight good and reliable people—examine the block very carefully;
they are unanimous in stating that the block had not been tampered with. Dr.
Harold Tillotson is Chief Engineer at a local plant. Mr. P. M. Fetting is Chief
Electrician for the dty. Both fine intelligent men. Both were sceptical on the
start.
12 THE M ARGERY MEDIUM SHIP
Here is what we found. The bottle was in the block intact.—cracked a little
in cutting. It is still imbedded in one side of one half of block, but could be re­
moved easily.
There is no chain in bottle. There is the label, on which is printed; W. B.
Minthom. This can be read easily.
I don’t think there is any writing on it. I can’t remember whether I wrote
anything on it or not. The bottom does not show. And I did not want to pry
the bottle out.
Well I am much pleased. My committee is much mystified. Where did the
chain go to?
Now you folks saw the bottle out of the block. Here is the mystery toi me.
Was the bottle a small 2 drachm Homeo-Vial with cork cut off quite close to bot­
tle? Was it entirely clean? Was the label plainly visible?
Here are the names of the Committee.
H. A. Tillotson
P. M. Fettig Mrs. Russell Johnson
A. Rasmussen Mrs. Wm. Osborn
A. Osborn Mrs. W. B. Minthorn
All of these people signed statement.
I am inclosing statement of myself made before block was cut, and of course
I am signing the one made by committee.
I will be glad to cooperate with you in any way that you may suggest. To
repeat I am much pleased. Please thank Walter for me. This is very wonderful.
Sincerely yours,
(signed) W. B. Minthorn.
On November 21, 1934, Mr. Minthom wrote as follows and there is
reproduced herewith, as figure 2, the X-ray picture taken in Petoskey.
Nov. 21, 1934.
Dear Doctor,
I sent you another X-Ray yesterday. It is much better than the first.
This last one was taken Oct. 31. The day before our committee cut the block
open.
I am wondering if Walter will ever bring the piece of chain out. It would
be very wonderful if he did.
Best wishes to you all.
As ever
W. B. Minthorn
Fig. 2 herewith shows the X-ray of the block as received by Mi.
Minthom. Walter in a seance held on November 16, 1934 dragged a
chain across Doctor Richardson’s hand also Mr. Button’s hand and that
of Mr. Thorogood. Walter also stated that he put the bottle back in the
plaster of Paris cake in a little different position. He agreed to give back
the chain with a little of the plaster of Paris that was displaced. He said
he would have both the mediums draw a picture of the chain. After
the sitting, Margery drew a picture of a chain consisting of seven links,
five in one group and two in another. Sary drew a chain consisting of
seven continuous links. •
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 13
On November 19, 1934, a chain was produced and dropped on the
table in the seance room. All the sitters saw it in red light. Mr. Thoro-
good reported it to be a silverdike chain of seven links. When the red'
light was put on at the end of the sitting, the chain was missing. Walter
said it was on the floor near Button’s left foot. It was there found. Mr.
Button put it on the table. The chain was then exhibited in red light and
all the sitters saw it. Walter said that Minthom had the rest of the chain
and could identify it. At this sitting there were present: Doctor Richard'
son, Doctor Crandon, Mrs. Richardson, Doctor Nichols, Mr. Crawford,
Mr. Litzelman, Sary and the medium. Mr. Kenney, Mr. Adams and
Miss Barry were outside the circle.
Fig. 2
X'ray picture of the w
hole and unbroken cake, with the vial im
bedded in it. Taken in
Petoskey.
The chain was sent by Mr. Thorogood to Mr. Minthom, Doctor
Crandon wrote Mr. Minthom as follows.
November 26, 1934
Dear Mr. Minthom:—
Thanks for notes of November 20th and 21st.
(1) You undoubtedly now have the released 7'link chain which was mailed
to you November 23rd byMr. Thorogood.
14 THE MARGERY MEDIUM SHIP
(2) We shall be glad to get a photograph of the cake as it looks now—cut
and °P“ edpjease ^ me a ^py 0f my ietter t0 you where Walter described the
contents of cake. . . . , , , , „ . , .
(4) Tell us how you identified the cake of plaster ot Paris as being your
own cake. _ ,
(5) Did any one know of contents at time of sending, September 25, 1932?
If so, a letter from him to you would help the story.
(6) We shall, I believe, publish within a week or two. Then, you will get
Faithfully yours,
all the data.
FaiYHfiiTIv vm irs.
L. R. G. Crandon
Mr. Minthom wrote Mr. Thorogood as follows.
Mr. B. K. Thorogood
Boston
My dear Mr. Thorogood
Nov. 30, 1934
I received the box with chain inclosed this noon. Believe me I am very much
pleased. The chain is the one I placed in the bottle in the “plaster block” test.
I hereby attest to the above. It sure is a very wonderful test.
I opened the box in the presence of Mr. Paul Fettig—one of the witnesses of
the cutting of block. AlsoMrs. Minthorn, my wife witnessed both the cutting
and the opening of this block. I wanted these witnesses to protect myself from
charges that I might have made false statement as to having received the chain.
I am getting a photo made today of the block containing the little bottle still
embedded in one half of block. Dr. Crandon wanted Photo, will forward it as
soon as finished.
Just a word as to my identification of block when received by me. I had no
difficulty in the identification. ^We examined it very carefully with a fairly good
glass. I have a scar on fgnt of my left thumb: this shows on block fairly wdl.
I worked block while it was still wet.
If you use this test in the?Journal, Am. Society Research. I would appreciate
it very much if I could have two copies.
Congratulations to you, and many thanks, also the rest of the group, include
ing Walter.
Sincerely yours
W. B. Minthom
The following two letters also were received from Mr. Minthom.
W. B. MINTHORN
Pharmacist
524 Liberty Street
Petoskey, Michigan
n i n /-■ n j Dec. 3, 1934
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon
Boston
Dear Doctor,
f
5 he Ph°u °f the block>1 reived the chain alright. Thanks
all^v frisB B B sffllsgfl over this work as I see more of it Wish with
at (ffiLhand K 1 ^ 3 BoSt°n and meet you a1
1 1
1
1
(1see some of the work
15
It would be hard to describe just how I knew the block, firstly one end of
block was a little thinner top sloped, the sloped end is the end with cork in. I
mean holding block flat or smothe side down—smothe side is bottom—Holding
so brings cork end in left hand.
I told my witnesses very easily which end had cork in. We marked that
end and X-Ray showed I was correct.
There is also mark on cork end of block which three of witnesses pronounced
my thumb mark. I told you of the scar on my left thumb front. Scar is visible
with glass. Evidently left by my work before block was dry.
I showed it to our State Police, finger print man. He thought because of so
many people handling the block, it would be very difficult to find mine, and I pre­
sume he is right.
Well it don’t need any proving of my finger marks to make it a very great
test. The skeptic may claim the block to be a duplicate, I know it is not. I
KNOW IT IS THE ONE I MADE.
Sincerely yours
W. B. Minthom
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Dec. 11, 1934
Dear Doctor:—
Replying to your last letter: the bottle was in the block exactly as I placed it.
Some of my friends thought that my memory could not be relied on, because of
the time elapsed, nearly two years. But, I had no difficulty in telling them which
end of the block held the cork end of bottle.
The bottom of block, as you will remember, is very smooth. The top I
worked before it was completely dry. One end was a little thinner, the end the
cork of bottle was in. I told my witnesses that, before w
,e took the( X-ray. We
marked the end that I claimed was the cork end, and the X-ray showed that I was
right.
The bottle is still embedded in one half of block, and label is in plain view.
I did not want to dig the bottle out and remove cork, and take label out as I was
afraid of breaking the bottle. However, the label is in plain view. There is
nothing written on it. At least, nothing that can be seen without taking it out.
I took a common shop label and trimmed it so it appears like this
W. B. MINTHORN
Druggist
524 Liberty St., Petoskey, Mich.
Date
This is an exact duplicate of the label, and as you can see, there is no room
for any writing on it. It is curled a little, but all of face is visible.
As ever yours,
(signed) W. B. Minthom
16
There are reproduced herewith, as figure 3, which is a photograph of
the plaster of Paris cake after having been cut open by Mr. Minthorn and
his committee and, figure 4, a photograph of the chain.
THE MARGERY M EDIUM SHIP
•S3 .
J r
: e>
v Z
