{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__gaines___the_magic_of_breath_power.pdf","mytitle":"The Magic Of Breath Power","mylang":"de"}
The .Magic of
Breath Power
by
Thomas Robert Gaines
Pioneer Official Breathing Instructor,
New York City Police Training Academy
Author of:
"Health Is In You", "Y. Y. C."
"The Magic of Self Healing"
"Arise and Shine", etc.
CONCORD PRESS
615 Washington Street
Lynn, Mass.
Dtdirattd to
nichard <6. <enright
A greal .roul and a loyal friend
who.re record a.r Police Commi.rsioner of New York City
will alway.r compel high esteem
The Magic of Breath Power
If you are OVERWEIGHT or greatly FATIGUED,
breathe one sniff on the first step and expel the breath
on the second step. You may rest from breathing on the
third step if you are not distressed.
WHAT IS VITALIC BREATIDNG?
VITALIC BREATHING IS A SYSTEM OF CON-
SCIOUS DIAPHRAGMATIC BREATHING, IN WHICH
THE BREATH IS INHALED IN CONTROLLED SNIFFS,
RETAINED FOR A CERTAIN TIME, AND THEN EX-
PELLED FORCIBLY.
Exactly how this is done is taught in this book.
Through Vitalic Breathing extraordinary benefits,
mental as well as physical, have been gained by men,
women and children, well or ailing, whether in laborious
or sedentary occupations. Its value has been definitely
established for many years. It is used not constantly but
only at periods of activity.
Breathing from the dia'Phragm is now generally
recognized as superior to upper chest breathing, for only
the apex of the lungs is in the upper chest whereas the
main mass of the lungs is situated just above the waist
line.
DEEP BREATHING STRAINS
Deep breathing is a form of tensed muscular activ-
ity. It involves strain. Deep breathing is therefore for-
bidden by wise physicians in tuberculosis. Physicians who
are acquainted with the beneficient r esults from the use
of Vitalic Breathing r ecommend it to their tubercular
patients.
VITALIC BREATIDNG PREVENTS
STRAIN
Lie on your back on a bed or on the floor. Place a
book over the region of the stomach and take a vitalic
sniff breath. If properly performed the book shouJd move
outwa.
rd, never inward.
Sit up and place your left hand over the diaphrag-
matic region and take two sniff breaths. If the movement
is out~ard well and good, if upward it is incorrect.
The Magic of Breath Power
In proper breathing there should be no lifting of the
chest. All movement should be from the base of the lungs.
It is more difficult to breathe c·orrectly standing erect
than when sitting or reclining.
Now, sniff in two successive breaths and note if the
action of the torso is downward, outward, or to the sides.
PROPER BREATH '
PLACEMENT IS THE
FOUNDATION OF GOOD BREATH
POWER
Note how a h ealthy baby breathes while asleep -
from the stomach, of course, not from the chest. This is
natural and instinctive.
For adults, who have lost this guidance of instinct,
proper breathing is the result of KNOWING and PRAC-
TISING correct breathing habits.
The better one's posture, the easier to breathe from
the diaphragmatic center. Shoulders that slope forward
prevent good breathing habits.
We can live for ninety days without food but life
ends in four minutes when breathing is suspended.
Breathing is important, isn't it?
"SIT UP WHEN YOU SIT DOWN"
Get in the habit of "meeting the world with your
breast." A faulty posture induces catarrh, colds, snoring
and mouth breathing. It is rare that you can admire the
posture and bearing of any person you meet throughout
the day.
Constipation is rife everywhere because people pre-
fer to slump instead of holding themselves erect. Sit
loosely erect; thus you build power and strength into
your body and find it easy to form the habit of Vitalic
Breathing.
VITALIC BREATIDNG IS THE IDGHEST
FORM OF CONSCIOUS BREATIDNG
Some birds can fly for thousands of miles without
alighting. Watch how a blackbird fiys. Birds breathe by
1
..
• •1
\II
{ ..
f.
T •J
J 4 I:
The Magic of Breath Power
KNEE. Women nat urally walk this way. Men take long
strides and bend their leg at the knee. It is a scientific
fact that women live three years longer than men
throughout the entire wo.,Id. Hip movement of the legs
while walking may account for it.
(g) Whenever the body is active VITALIC
BREATHING should be practiced. Fifteen minutes walk-
ing while observing these seven walking principles, will
be found to prove of more health value than two hours of
walking under uncontrolled conditions.
Begin the practice of VITALIC BREATHING in a
sane manner. Grow into its use; do not strain, rush or
hurry. If you notice a pain occurring from its use, do not
be frightened. It usually indicates the tiny blood vessels
are opening up and hampered blood circulation is being
restored to normSil. However, should a pain present itself,
stop the practice of VITALIC BREATHING for a few
hours until pain has left.
If you have a lung or heart condition, always get
the okay of your doctor before engaging in any form of
breathing or physical exercise.
BREATH IS SPIRIT
THOUGHT IS SPIRIT
We have four instruments of life, THOUGHT,
BR~ATHI NG, FOOD, MOTION. Two of these instru-
ments are spiritual, thought and breathing. Food and mo-
tion are our physical instruments. We are as we think,
breathe, eat and move.
MAKE TillS BENEFICIAL TEST
Place a chair on the foot of your bed. Lie on your
back on the bed and place your feet comfortably on the
chair. Close your eyes and mentally concentrate on your
left leg and imagine you are drawing in air up through
your left leg as you slowly inhale at the same time.
Mentally cross the abdominal region with the retain-
ed breath and imagine you are discharging it through
th e right leg as you expel the breath through your nos-
trils. This exercise performed for five minutes daily, or
longer, will prove of inestimable benefit for all foot and
~ 10 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
leg troubles including that meanest of aH leg diseases,
VARICOSE VEINS.
HINTS CONCERNING VARICOSE VEINS
Long hours of standing imposed on women clerks in
department stores often cripple these women in middle
life. Varicose veins are induced by too much leg strain
and by weakening the blood vessels by the overeating of
food, especially devitalized foods.
Rest, elevation of feet and proper diet are the natur-
al methods of combatting varicose veins.
The constant day in and day out practice of VITAL-
IC BREATHING whenever the body is in a state of activ-
ity is a 'Preventive as well as a vital help in the overcom-
ing of varicose veins.
WATCH A CHILD COOL HOT MILK
The youngest child understands that a breath quick-
ly blown through the pursed lips has a cooling effect.
Consequently when the boy discovers the milk is un-
pleasantly hot, he proceeds to cool it by making his
breath cold.
That self same boy knows when his hands are cold,
he can WARM them by using his breath in a different
manner. He opens his mouth quite wide and exhales slow-
ly and the warm air rushes out upon the hands to effect
the required warming process.
BREATH IS A HEALING AGENT
For a severe head pain try the cold breath on the
center of the forehead. Moisten the forehead with a little
oil or water and get someone to blow a long, sustained
breath against the forehead. Usually a minute or two of
breath bombardment will banish headaches of long
standing.
In almost every instance common headaches are
simply the reaction to improper eating. It is wise, there·
fore, to prevent a recurrence of the head pains by the
scientific change of diet.
-+11+-
II
...
. 1
,, .,
1 .' '
. '
' I
'J
' .
The Magic of Breath Power
proceed to expel the air through the mouth. Make the
expulsion of breath extend over four or five seconds. Even
the most violent type of nose bleed will surrender to this
breathing exercise in a minute or two. The constant
stream of cold air entering the nostrils tends to coagulate
the blood at the point of rupture. The warm air, if ex-
haled through the nose would prevent the sealing of the
ruptured blood vessel, so during the nose bleed the inhal-
ing is done through the nose and the warm air is expelled
by way of the mouth.
If the nose bleed is brought on where it is impossible
to recline on your bac.k, simply tilt back the head while
sitting or standing and proceed to sniff twice through the
nose and once out through the mouth. Usually the bleed-
ing ceases in less than sixty seconds.
If inclined to pick your nose with your finger, use
your elbow instead!
BREATH IS YOUR SECOND VOICE
Learn to synchronize your thoughts with your vitalic
sniffs. For instanc;e, take the most popular walking
breath:
3 4 5 6 7
Steps
Sniffs
1
1
2
1
1 exhale rest - rest - rest- rest
SAY AS YOU BREATHE: Brea thi~ life
I~ simple language, in the sniff on the first step you
imagine "Brea"; on the second step you breathe one sniff
which concludes the word "breathing". The second sniff
on the second step you speak "in". On the third step forc-
ibly expel all three breaths while speaking the word
"life". Thus: in, in - in, out, is S'poken as:
thing .
Brea - in -life.
This is done in just three steps.
You can make up your own affirmations or words to
the various forms of breathing. Where the plan of breath-
ing is in, in, out, a popular thought is "I am Health". Get
in the habit of speaking in breath and you will find it an
-extremely profitable experience.
.... 14 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
WATCH THE RESTING PROCESS
Almost every beginner in BREATH CULTURE is in-
clined to forget or minimize the resting period. You tire
yourself and choke your lungs unless you take several
steps for resting after you·exhale the air from the lungs.
To breath properly is a mighty asset for health, youth
and success. Keep practicing and studying until you
reach PERFECTION.
BREATHING IS A SCIENCE
Desire to become a MASTER of breathing. The re-
wards that follow the mastery of breath are constant and
profitable. In the entire wo.,Id it is estimated that but one
person in every four hundred breathes properly.
Colds, snoring, catarrh, mouth breathing end as
VITALIC BREATHING is systematically practic-ed. The
law of conscious breathing is to breathe vitalically when
the body is in a state of action, but not to give any atten-
tion to breathing while sitting or standing.
MAKE VITALIC BREATHING
A PROFITABLE DAILY HABIT
At least fifteen minutes daily should be allotted to
walking in the out of doors while practicing VITALIC
BREATHING. Walking with breath control is the
-.upreme exercise for the maintenance of health and
youth.
Force yourself to breathe vitalically whenever you
walk and presently it will become a fixed unconscious
habit. No other physical exercises are required save walk-
ing and correct posture.
BREATIDNG IS'A TRANSCENDANT
FORCE
Breath is life's rhythm: a wave of air ascends, anoth-
er descends. Upon this air stream the harmonies or dis-
harmonies of life beat. Breath is the measure of life, for
Jife is but breath to breath. It is life's spirit. When breath
ceases, life stops. Breathing is the symbol of movement,
the PULSE of the Universe.
... 15 +-
c
..~ "r
!'
.·
i '
' r
I
,\
~ ~
••
·r
. ' ,
'
(
'
,.
t:
r ~ "{"
..'
,. I
,., 1-
I.
" .,
\
ol
I '
.,
The Magic of Breath Power
While walking over the course use the Vitalic Walk-
ing Breath at all times. You will be vital and fresh even
after a most strenuous game if you weave controlled
breathing into all of your golf activities.
A BREATIDNG HINT FOR CAR OWNERS
Do not lean back when you drive an automobile.
Place a pillow behind your back and sit up straight when
driving. This posture helps to prevent strain and fatigue
and actually helps to keep the body r elaxed. Let the hand
rest loosely on. driving wheel.
Occasionally it is advisable to cleanse the lungs by
forcing out the air through the mouth. Simply clean out
the lungs about four times an hour while driving. This
hygienic practice will be found preventive of colds.
WHO DISCOVERED VITALIC
BREATHING?
VITALIC BREATHING WAS DISCOVERED BY
THE WRITER IN 1918. IT WAS NOT AN INVENTION,
IT WAS A REVELATION, A FLASH FROM THE INFIN-
ITE. EACH NEW DAY FINDS ME MORE ENTHUS-
IASTIC ABOUT THIS THRILLING BREATHING DIS-
COVERY. IN NO INSTANCE HAVE WE FOUND ANY
INJURIOUS RESULT FROM ITS PRACTICE. ON THE
CONTRARY, MANY THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ~AVE
WRITTEN PERSONAL LETTERS EULOGIZING THIS
SUPREME DISCOVERY.
IT REQUIRES INTELLIGENCE TO STAY
ALIVE
We begin to die at our shoulders. Our shoulders
should be constantly moved, and the perfect way to move
the shoulders is to swing the arms, not from the elbows
but from the region of the shoulders. Every time you
walk, keep your arms free from bundles and bags, and
swing them from the shoulder line; this is both a health
and youth habit. Keep the arms loosely straight while
swinging them.
-+ 17 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
At all times THE BASE OF THE LUNGS IS FILLED
WITH AN ACID GAS, THE ACID OF DEAD CELL
DUST AND CARBON DIOXIDE GAS. THIS GAS CON-
TENT MOVES OUT OF THE LUNGS VERY SLOWLY
WHEN BREATHING IS UNCONSCIOUS, BUT WHEN
VITALIC BREATHING AND ARM SWINGING ARE
PRACTICED T H E S E DANGEROUS GASES ARE
QUICKLY EXPELLED. THIS IS A YOUTH PROMOT-
ING AND HEALTH REGAINING HABIT.
HELP YOUR KIDNEYS!
IN UNCONSCIOUS ORDINARY BREATHING,
ABOUT THIRTY PER CENT. OF THE GASEOUS
WASTES OF THE BODY ARE THROWN OFF
THROUGH THE LUNGS. WHEN VITALIC BREATH-
LNG IS MADE A DAILY HABIT, IT IS ESTIMATED,
THAT FULLY FIFTY PER CENT. OF BODILY WASTE
GASES ARE ELIMINATED THROUGH THE LUNGS.
WHEN VITALIC BREATHING IS NOT PRACTICED,
THE KIDNEYS ARE FORCED TO TAKE OVER THE
WORK NEGLECTED BY THE LUNGS. PHYSICIANS
REPORT AN ALARMING INCREASE IN DEGENERA-
TION OF THE KIDNEYS: FAULTY RESPIRATiON IS
UNDOUBTEDLY A CONTRIBUTING CAUSE.
FIGHT HERNIA
When Vitalic Breathing becomes a regular habit
whenever the body is in a state of activity, the abdominal
region begins to take on a coating of flexible muscle.
When thus exercised by the breathing, the abdominal
walls are strengthened and the likelihood of being rup-
tured is far removed.
In case of existing ruptures, the following breathing
exercise has been found of the UTMOST BENEFIT.
Lie on the floor with the arms extended above the
sides of the head. Breathe in two vitalic sniffs as you
stretch and tense the entire body. Also during the tensing
and stretching period, 'push the toes outward as far as
possible. The tensing period should take about 5 seconds.
The two breaths should be held while stretching the
body.
-+ 18 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
After relaxing the body and exhaling the retained
breaths, proceed as before with the exception that this
time you pull the toes inward and shove the heels out-
ward. About 5 minutes each day may be advantageously
employed for this excellent exercise.
Not only will this breathing movement aid in the cor-
rection of hernia, but likewise it helps to overcome the
tendency to constipation. It will also be found most useful
in the overcoming of dropped organs.
RUN WITH LESS FATIGUE
Running is not recommended for men and women
after the age of 40. However, sometimes there are condi-
tions which may render it necessary for even very aged
persons to run. Young people might profitably run each
day, in moderation of course.
Here are the running breaths:
Steps 1 2 3 4 5 6
Plan 1 Sniff 1 1 exhale rest
Plan 2 Sniff 1 1 exhale 1 1 exhale
Plan 3 Sniff 1 exhale 1 exhale 1 exhale
Unless very tired, use the nose for breathing while
running. For ordinary running, plan No. 1 is found most
suitable. For faster running, plan No. 2 is advised. For
very rapid running, plan No. 3 is suggested. Come down
on the ball of the foot while running and keep the arms
lifted, that is, bent at the elbow, in the usual running
position of athletes. The lifting of the arms prevents un-
due strain on the heart.
The running breaths may also be profitably utilized
for climbing purposes. People who are over weight
should use plan No. 2 or No. 3 while climbing hills or
stairs. In climbing hills, the thumbs should point to the
front. In walking on level ground, the back of the hands
should always be toward the front.
THE BREATH OF YOUTH
This is an ADVANCED breath, therefore it is wise
to postpone the use of this breath until the walking
breaths are first mastered. First learn the ten different
breaths comprising the Youth Breath, then master the
Breathing Song which is to be synchronized with the
-+ 19 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
various inhalations and exhalations. The Youth Breath is
to be practiced only while walking.
Steps 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1
1 Sniffs 1 1 exhale rest- rest - rest- rest
Brea thing
in life
1
2 Sniffs 1 1 exhale rest - rest- rest- rest
Brea thing
in life
1
3 Sniffs 1 1 1 1 exhale rest- rest- rest- rest
Brea thing
health, youth and life
1
4 Sniffs 1 1 exhale rest- rest- r est- rest
Brea thing
in life
1
5 Sniffs 1 1 exhale rest- rest - 1·est- rest
Brea thing
in life
1
6 Sniffs 1 1 1 1 exhale rest- rest- rest- rest
Brea thing
health, youth and life
1
7 Sniffs 1 1 1 1 exhale rest- rest- r est - rest
Brea thing
health, youth and life
1
8 Sniffs 1 1 1 1exhale rest- rest - rest- rest
Brea thing
health, youth and life
1
9 Sniffs 1 1 1 1 exhale rest- rest- rest- rest
Brea thing
health, youth and life
1
10 Sniffs 1 1 1 1 exhale rest - rest - rest- rest
Brea thing t
health, youth and life
-+ 20 +--
The Magic of Breath Power
Here are the breaths and words in two separate
charts:
Steps
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
Sniffs
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1 exhale-rest- rest- rest- rest
1
1 exhale-rest - rest - rest- rest
1
1
1
1 1exhale-rest - rest- rest- rest
1 exhale-rest- rest - rest- rest
1
1 exhale-rest- rest- rest- rest
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1exhale-rest- rest - rest- rest
1exhale-rest- rest- rest- rest
1exhale-rest - rest - rest- rest
1exhale-rest- rest- rest- rest
1exhale-rest - rest- rest- rest
WORDS OF BREATHING SONG
TUNE "THE VESUVIAN VALSE"
Breathing in life,
Breathing in life,
Breathing health, youth and life,
Breathing in life,
Breathing in life,
Breathing health, youth and life,
Breathing health, youth and life,
Breathing health, youth and life,
Breathing health, youth and life,
Breathing health, youth and life.
Remember you are to sniff the tune and words as you
breathe the correct breath. When you can execute this
breathe in a perfect manner, then indeed can you con-
-+ 21 ...
The Magic of Breath Power
gratulate yourself, as you have demonstrated you are
indeed a BREJATH MASTER.
Study carefully the directions for th e YOUTH
BREATH. Do not allow yourself to become confused or
strained in attempting to practice it. Get th e first three
breaths and words correctly and you will speedily be-
come ADEPT in the entire ten breaths.
BREATHING TO RELAX THE MIND
Use identically the same ten breaths as the Youth
Breath. The words alone are different. The Youth Breath
being physical, walk rather rapidly and swing the arms
vigorously during its practice. However, for the RELAX-
ATION BREATH, walk slowly and do not swing the
arms.
Breathing in Peace,
Breathing in Peace,
Breathing ~n Poise and Peace,
Br eathing in Peace,
Br eathing in Peace,
Breathing in Poise and Peace,
Br eathing in Poise and Peace,
Breathing in Poise and Peace,
Breathing in Poise and Peace,
Breathing in Poise and Peace.
These words are all silent and issued only in the
vitalic sniffs. After the practice of this breathing exer-
cise, both mind and body will be found to be calm, placid
and r elaxed. Use the same tune as for the Youth Breath
in Relaxation Song.
WORDS OF RELAXATION BREATH
HOW TO STRENGTHEN YOUR ARM
MUSCLES WITHOUT PHYSICAL
EXERCISE
Place your right or left arm on the table extended
to full length. Close your eyes and begin to concentrate
on your arm. Proceed to breathe in two sniff breaths,
-+ 22 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
mentally concentrating on the finger tips and imagining
that you are drawing the breath up to the shoulder.
Hold the retained breath for a period of 5 seconds,
visualizing at the same time that the breath supposedly
in your arm, is vitalizing and strengthening the muscles
of your arm. Then discharge the breath through the arm
and at the same time allow the arm to RELAX.
Experiments have demonstrated that the majestic
'POwer of controlled thought and breath can actually
strengthen the muscles of the arm. Take about 50 such
breaths daily for sure and certain results if you desire to
build up an increased arm strength.
THE BEST OF OUR LIFE IS NOT BEHIND US
WHEN WE ADOPT THE GOOD HABIT OF VITALIC
BREATHING- THEN- "THE BEST IS YET TO BE".
Millions of people adopt the wise habit of brushing
their teeth once or twice daily. How much more import-
ant though is it to be careful to cleanse our lungs several
times each day.
Bodily gases and wastage are constantly being sent
into the lungs for discharge into the air. When we aid
nature by the conscious use of breath, how mucb better
·are our lungs ventilated, and the annoyance of coughs
and colds is practically ended!
Here is a simple plan of lung cleansing that may be
profitably practiced at frequent opportune times. Sit
down on a chair, drop your chin on the breast and begin
to breathe in a number of vitalic sniffs as you move the
head backward as far as possible. Al3 you expel the
breath, return the chin to your breast.
A decided improvement in your health will follow
the frequent use of the lung cleansing breath. Possibly
one minute three or four times daily will prove the ideal
time to allot to this REWARDING exercise.
Every human being has actually the spark of a full
century of life within his physical organism. We die en-
tirely too soon and the last half of the average person's
1ife is a dying process. When we eat vital food in moder-
ation, also when we use vitalic breathing whenever we
walk, we automatically prevent old age, postpone death
and outwit the undertaker.
We should really be ashamed to demonstrate old
bodies, as we simply advertise our ignorance about
-+ 23 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
nature's laws at work in our body. When we learn to
comprehend how fearfully and wonderfully we are made,
we will be more careful how we eat and breathe.
We can, if we choose, be young mn and women at
70. Simply a little more intelligence in our habits of liv-
ing is all that is necessary. Faulty habits shorten life.
Habits of intelligence increase happiness and prolong
life.
GROWING OLD IS A SIN
WHY NOT BUILD PERFECT VISION?
GOOD EYESIGHT FOR ALL
A few years ago if anyone suggested Vitalic Breath-
ing as a cure for poor eyesight, he would be laughed to
scorn, in all probability. However, time the great reveal-
er, is disclosing new wonders and mighty miraC'les each
new day. Set ideas about anything are becoming out of
date. The wise man is kee'ping his mind OPEN and has
expunged the word "impossible" from his vocabulary.
The eyes are built out of the food we eat. Foods that
are acid in reaction, cannot be expected to build good
eyes capable of manifesting excellent vision. Eat more
fruits and vegetables if your sense of vision is impaired.
Likewise proceed to renew your sight with these breath-
ing exercises.
EYESIGHT EXERCISE NO. I
Place a chart on the wall comprised of letters taken
from a newspaper. Letters should be of varying sizes.
Have all the larger type in the first line. About five lines
of successively smaller type should comprise the wall
chart. Sit away such a distance from this chart that it is
impossible for you to read even the first line of type on
the chart.
As you close your eyes, slowly squeeze them rather
tightly while you breath two vitalic sniffs. Imagine that
your own eyes are doing the breathing, not the nostrils.
As soon as the lungs are filled, mentally expel the breath
through the eyes. Now slowly oipen your eyes, expecting
that you can easily read the chart you placed against the
The Magic of Breath Power
wall. Naturally at first you will fail to read the chart, but
with patience and perseverance, the time will come when
you can read the first line.
The second and following lines will become visible
and clear after many succeeding efforts. Keep the chair
the same distance away from the chart during your prac-
tice of this breathing exerclise. Notice that the invincible
combination of CONTROLLED thought and breathing
can build improved eyesight as it is capable of building
increased muscle power in the arms.
EYESIGHT EXERCISE NO. 2
Lift your chin and tilt back the head, now squeeze
the eyes tightly closed. As you breathe in five sniff
breaths, while speaking in breath:
" My eyes are filled with sight"
SNIFFS 1 1 1 1 1 exhale
The exhalation should require as much time as the
inhalation of the five sniffs. Even in cases of partial cat-
aract, this exercise has been found most valuable.
WHY SUFFER WITH SINUS?
Eminent physicians are daily declaring that outside
of infectious diseases there is but one cause for disease
and that is overeating or eating devitalized food pro-
ducts. Begin to eat wisely, well cooked meats and sea fish,
raw and cooked vegetables and fruits in pro'Per combina-
tions. Within forty-eight hours an improvement in any
sinus condition should take place.
Now concentrate on the region just above the eyes
and hum "TOO YHINE" for a minute or two each day
until the condition is ended. The humming of "TOO
YHINE" should be forceful and the entire head region
should move and vibrate to the powerful humming sound.
GET RID OF SAGGING NECK MUSCLES
Provide a pint of cold water in a basin; add the juice
of two lemons to the water. Sit loosely upright in a chair,
all upper clothing being removed. Place your hands in the
mixture of cold water and lemon juice and firmly draw
-+ 25 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
all loosened neck skin with the back of the hands toward
the back of the neck. As you draw the sagging skin back-
ward, breathe in two vitalic sniff breaths. Hold the loose
flesh between the fingers of your left hand as you exhale.
Release the flesh as exhalation ends.
It will take considerable time to notice an improve-
ment in the condition of the neck. But as the days go by,
the roundness of youth will most assuredly be again
established in the neck. .Do not exceed three minutes
nightly for this neck renewing exercise.
BECOME A IDGH PRIEST OF
BREATIDNG
In ancient times breathing was more thoroughly
appreciated than today, and we find in olden times the
ideu "breathing" and "spirit" were expressed by a
single word.
Latin - "spiritus" ("anima")
Sanskrit - "'J)rana"
Greek - "pneuma"
Gaelic - "beatha"
Arabic -"nafas"
Slavic - "duchu"
Hebrew - "ne sha meh"
By understanding the kinship of spirit and breath,
you regain ancient wisdom.
The constant practice of Vitalic Breathing whenever
the body is walking or exercising, will in due time in-
crease all the forces and powers of mind and body. Pay
no attention to your manner of breathing save when the
body is physically active. The sub-conscious mind carries
on all breathing functions except when the breathing is
under your own conscious will and control.
While walking do not carry on a conversation with
anyone. Personally when I go for a walk,.I invite my most
talkative friend to accompany me. He has a great time
supplying all the conversation - I have a great time
also, sniffing in power, health and vigor into my lungs.
The Magic of Breath Power
AIR IS A MYSTERIOUS FORCE
Bessemer, the great steel manufacturer and inventor
of the Bessemer Process for making steel, as a young man
ventured to approach a group of scientists in London to
explain his great discovery. "I have discovered," he said,
4
'that by the introduction of air into molten iron, the iron
ore will change into steel!"
These narrow-minded scientists refused to take the
statement of Mr. Bessemer seriously and he was politely
escorted from the room and behind his back he was dub-
bed a quack and a crank. But Mr. Bessemer knew both
his air and his steel and his knowledge brought him fame,
fortune and a HIGH PLACE in history.
Westinghouse discovered that by controlling ordin-
ary air a moving train could be speedily brought to a stop.
He endeavored to interest a leading railroad president in
his inventions and he was refused admittance to the office
of this gentleman, who at that time was unacquainted
with the power of the air brake.
Later the Westinghouse Air Brake brought fame and
many millions to its discoverers. Today air-conditioning
is the great new business of this century. People are be-
coming air-conscious and it is to be hoped this air-sense
will continue to augment and increase.
LEARN HOW TO USE .AIR THE VITALIC
WAY
Weave the science of Vitalic Breathing into all of
your physical activities. Whenever you walk, climb, play
or work out of doors, use the triumphant Vitalic Breath
technique and thus you change work into play.
MAKE GARDENING FATIGUELESS
Whenever you use a fork or a spade to dig in the
garden, breathe in two sniffs as you force the tool into the
earth. As you turn over the soil, forcibly expel the breath.
Do not so exhaust yourself digging so that you are com-
pelled to breathe through the mouth. This method for
digging may also be employed for shoveling snow or coal.
'The usual fatigue is lessened fully two-thirds by this
The Magic of Breath Power
simple breathing plan. Simply breathe in twice through
the nose in sniffs as you force your spade in the ground.
As you turn over the sod, forcibly expel the retained air.
Make this breathing plan a habit whenever you use spade
shovel or fork.
CARPENTERS- YOUR ATTENTION
PLEASE!
When you saw lumber in the future, try out this
wood sawing breath and you will adopt it for the rest of
your life. As you begin to saw, breathe in two vitalic sniff
breaths with the first two outward motions. On the third
outward stroke, expel both breaths. Make this form of
breathing CONTINUOUS during the period, of sawing.
When planing or hammering, the same principle of
breathing may be employed. With a little practice, the
ideal system will unfold and soon you will find your daily
fatigue reduced one-half and your output increased one-
third at least.
COLLEGE OARSMEN, SNIFF YOUR WAY
TO VICTORY!
As you proceed to make the stroke with the oar,
breathe in two quick vitalic sniffs. EX'pel the retained air
as you go forward to make the next stroke. This plan of
breathing leads to fame and championship. Try it and
you will increase your strength and greatly lessen your
fatigue.
All athletes should study Vitalic Breathing and use
it in aU track events as well as for the personal well-
being. Wrestlers and fighters- you can wrestle and fight
much better when you get the KNACK of sniffing vital-
ically.
LEARN, YE HEWERS OF WOOD
In cutting down trees or splitting logs, follow these
breathing directions. As you swing the axe upward pre-
paratory to making the stroke, breathe in two vitalic
sniffs. As the axe contacts the wood, vigorously snort out
the retained air from the lungs. Never, never do any
-+ 28 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
strenuous work withou·t harmonizing Vitalic Breathing
with each physical movement. Fatigue, heart and muscle
strain are lessened fully one-half under the beneficient
action of Vitalic Breathing.
KEEP YOUR BLOOD STREAM THIN
After the age of 35, science infers that often our
blood stream, because of diminishing alkalinity, begins
to thicken. With the thickening of the blood, the heart is
overworked and an enlargement of that organ is often
brought about because of its endeavor to force the thick-
ened blood through the veins and arteries.
The steadfast practice of Vitalic Breathing while
walking, helps to keep the blood thin and pure. Thus the
h eart is greatly aided. Besides, as a general rule, harden-
ing of the arteries follows the enlargement of the muscles
of the heart. Actually the lungs control the heart and the
circulation of the blood. Use Vitalic Breathing to VITAL-
IZE the lungs, ease the heart and purify the blood!
GROWING OLD IS MERELY A SIGN
OF BREATIDNG IGNORANCE
The average man or woman of 60 feels old and fear-
ful of the future. This feeling is unnecessary as we are
youthful and vibrant at 60 when we practice Vitalic
Breathing and eat vital food in moderation. The master
key to youth at 60 is to take up the study and practice of
Vitalic Breathing as early in life as possible.
An eminent New York City physician recently de-
clared: "It matters little when you take up the practice
of proper breathing: you automatically EXTEND your
span of life from 5 to 30 years."
HEALTH BEFORE EVERYTIDNG
We are almost in the way, if not actually an incubus,
if we allow ourselves to become ailing or sick. Sickness
is not NATURAL; h ealth is the NATURAL force of exist-
ence. Nature desires us to employ HEALTH as NATURE
is all health. Nature does not visit us with disease. We,
ourselves, are our own trouble makers when we live our
lives by impulse or snap judgment.
-+ 29 t-
The Magic of Breath Power
Health is the most desirable condition of life. Health
is life's most precious WEALTH. It takes intelligence to
demonstrate health throughout our life and be young in
body and mind when we reach sixty. Life is only BEAUT-
IFUL when we can do what we want. When we are weary,
old and sickly, we long for death to deliver us from our
self-made distress.
EAT YOUR WAY BACK TO HEALTH
BREATHE BACK YOUTH INTO YOUR
BODY
Our bodies are created out of the food we have eaten
in the past. Food creates our eyes, skin, teeth, nerves,
blood, bones and tissues. If we lack food -understand-
ing, we eat by impulse or by the spur of appetite, so we
are likely to inflict much punishment upon our bodies.
Health is well nigh impossible unless intelligence
guides the daily selection of food. We must study the
necessity for obtaining essential body minerals in our
diet. We should not eat what is placed before us, but
demand food that is good for our health and happiness.
Health does not maintain itself. It must be safe-
guarded by the consumption of vital, health-building
food. A few people remain well in spite of consuming
acid-reacting food for many years. Gradually the human
race is awakening to the great TRUTH of life -"We are
as we eat and breathe".
BillLD STURDY AND HAPPY FEET
The feet should be bathed twice a week in hot and
cold water alternating for three minutes in all. At the
conclusion of the water bathing, rub the feet, ankles and
calves up to the knee with lemon juice. Allow the lemon
juice to remain on the legs and feet.
Now lie down on the bed, facing its head, and throw
a blanket over the high rail of the head of the bed. Push
your body up close to the head of bed and place your feet
on the blanket, at the same time lifting your legs as high
as possible, without strain of course.
This exercise is called the gravational drain and
tends to restore improved circulation of blood. As you
--. 30 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
rest your feet, close your eyes and imagine you are
breathing in and out through your feet and legs. Also
imagine the feet and legs are becoming very warm and
also IMPROVING in circulation.
With your eyes closed breathe in two sniff breaths,
concentrating on your feet at the same time. First direct
the breathing to the left foot and then to the right. Re-
member always that breath is spirit and it can be actually
sent to the point of concentration. As you breathe in the
vitalic sniffs MENTALLY hold the breath in the foot and
consciously move the toes to and fro as if bathing them in
the retained air.
Not only will this exercise help your feet and im-
prove your cir culation, but likewise it will instantly help
ViARICOSE VEINS if they are present. In all cases of
varicose veins or ulcers, food should be confined to whole
grains, lean meat and fish well cooked, raw and cooked
vegetables and fresh fruits. Devitalized foods impede the
healing of varicose veins.
Another remarkable reaction to this breathing exer-
cise is the quick improvement of vision, if any impairment
exists. "Blood is the life," we are told and there is more
life in the blood when this exercise is made a part of
one's daily life.
KEEP YOUR CHEST FORWARD BUT
NEVER PRACTICE CHEST BREATHING
The upper chest contains the smallest section of the
lungs - the apex. The main mass of the lungs rest on
the diaphragm. Again lie on your back and concentrate
on the diaphragmatic region. Sniff in twice and watch the
stomach region leap upward. Now you are activating the
deep masses of the lungs.
Keep breathing in gentle sniffs until you are con-
vinced that the diaphragm is the only location for breath-
ing that you will use in the future. A lifted chest and a
diaphragmatic location for breath placement will enable
you to be young at 70. Don't forget that the diaphrag·m
does not move outward when you walk. But at all times
know for an absolute fact the diaphragm center is your
breathing CENTER.
... 31 ~
The Magic of Breath Power
BE KIND TO YOUR HEART
The base of the heart rests on the diaphragm. Each
time you pull up the diaphragm when you breathe, you
tend to decrease the chest space of your heart. Contra-
wise, when you flatten out the diaphragm when you in-
hale in vitalic sniffs as you walk or exercise, you greatly
increase the space scope of the heart.
The lungs actually control the heart to quite a de-
gree - as you become proficient in Vitalic Breathing you
will note with joy that a sense of heart constriction no
longer bothers you. If you have a heart condition, work
with your doctor and be careful that you do not overdo
the breathing in the beginning.
Breathe in vitalic sniffs in controlled rhythms a& you
walk, run, climb, work or indulge in any outdoor recrea-
tion. Whenever you decide to breathe Vitalically, under-
stand at that moment you are actually becoming a bene-
factor and FRIEND to your heart.
HOUSEWIVES- HEAR YE!
As you walk about the house in the performance of
your household duties, train yourself to breath vitalically.
If you do breathe in vitalic sniffs, even after a strenuous
day of house cleaning, the usual fatigue will not be near-
ly so apparent. You will feel rested and refreshed instead.
The formation of the habit of Vitalic Breathing when you
move around the house will be found a mighty GOOD
health habit.
When you wield a broom, breathe in one sniff breath
with the first movement, repeat on the second swing of
the broom and forcibly expel both breaths at the third
swing. If there is a lot of dust occasioned by the opera-
tion, do not breathe very forcibly, breathe about one-half
of the usual volume of breathing, but do breathe in vital-
ic sniffs whenever you sweep the floor or perform other
strenuous household duties.
PHYSICAL EXERCISE SHOULD BE
PRACTICED WHILE BREATIDNG
VITALICALLY
As a general rule the majority of college and other
athletes die in middle life. There is a reason behind this
-+ 32 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
- those who are in charge of the training of athletes
usually ignore the question of breathing or teach it in the
old-fashioned, obsolete way called "deep breathing".
As pointed out before, in deep breathing there is a
strain involved. In Vitalic Breathing the diaphragm is
flattened slightly and the air rushes in to fill the resulting
vacuum. If you want to drive a nail into a piece of wood
you do not attempt the performance with a single blow of
the hammer. You drive in the nail with a succession of
forceful taps.
In the practice of exercise, inhale in two sniffs with
the first or first and second movements. Inhale both
breaths on the movement following the exhalation. If
you are exercising in a moderate way, rest from breath-
ing at the fourth movement. If you are exercising stren-
uously, do not allow any movement for resting.
Keep breathing in a sniff breath on the first move-
ment, repeat on the second movement, expel on the thir-d,
and breath in again on the fourth movement. Never exer-
cise without synchronizing breath with every BODI~Y
motion. Heart strain is almost certain to follow exercises
that leave out synchronization of breath. As you accus-
tom yourself to breathe vitalically while exercising, the
habit becomes an unconscious.one within a week or two.
END THE EVIL OF CONSTIPATION
Because of shallow breathing and slovenly posture
it is estimated that fully 90 % of the people suffer from
constipation. Vitalic Breathing is practiced to help to
square shoulders and aids the habit of erect posture.
When it becomes a constant habit, it marks the ending
of constipation. At least three bowel movements are nec-
essary each day to 'Prevent the accumulation of danger-
ous, fermenting material in the intestines and also pre-
vent a repellant odor from the breath as the mouth is a
gateway to the intestines.
If constipated, stand up straight with left arm ex-
tended to the front. Grasp the elbow of the left arm, then
fold back the left hand over the right elbow. Now move
the folded arms so that they rest on the top of the head.
Be careful that the arms_do not become unlocked or sep-
arated as they are lifted to the top of the head.
~ 33 ~
The Magic of Breath Power
Now trot about the room, holding your folded a.rms
over the head and breathe in two vitalic sniffs and then
forcibly snort out the air from the lungs. The practice
of this exercise for two minutes each morning should af-
ford an additional bowel movement each qay. When yoq
have tFained the intestines to eliminate the wastes thrice
daily, the exercise may be discontinued.
ANOTHER CONSTIPATION EXERCISE
Lie on your back about two feet from a wall. Place
your feet as high as possible up the wall. Let the weight
of the body rest on the shoulders. As you climb up the
wall with your feet, breathe in three vitalic sniff breaths.
As you climb down the wall with your feet, exhale all
three breaths.
Continue this up and down climbing and breathing
exercise for several minutes. Thousands of my students
have reported the use of this exercise has corrected even
the most chronic conditions of constipation. Vitalic
Breathing being abdominal, is in itself a corrector of con-
stipation.
CORRECT POSTURE MAKES YOU
STRONG
Whep you stanq up stra,ight, you call into requi.sition
all the muscles of your body so they are exercised with-
out exercise. As you continue to cultivate t.he habit of
proper posture you become stronger and stronger.
Correct posture makea you a natural strong man or
woman.
Push your back against the wall - heels, buttocks
and poll. Lift your head as high as possible without tilt-
ing it backward. Holding your erect bodily posture, move
away from the wall and begin to practice Vitalic Breath-
ing. Sniff two breaths in for two steps and expel both
breaths at the third step. Notice how much EASIER it is
to breathe from the diaphragm when the law of proper
posture is observed.
YOUR HEAD WEIGHS 15 POUNDS
The head should be balanced perfectly on top of
the neck. When the neck inclines forward, the head is
The M~gic of Breath Power
t}lrowp ogt of b&)Ance ~ntl the hariJ!ony of the entire body
is ~isorganized. It reqij~e~ will power and effort to stan~
up straight ~Jl4 keep the head beautifully in place. Any
expenditure of tim~ and energy directed toward posture
hnproveme:qt will be well rep~id in INCR&\SED bodily
~ase and health.
Perfect he~Q. placement is also an invaluable aid to-
ward the acquisition of steady nel'ves. A sound mind in
a sound body is a goal worth striving for. Begin to desire
a perfect pqdy apd do 110t be satisfied with anything less.
We cannot overcome bad habits of posture in a day or
even a month. But we "Yill JllOSt pleasurably notice a de-
cided improvement from the first moment we consciously
strive for pet-feet posture.
MAKE YOUR BACK FLAT AND STRONG
WITHOUT EXERCISE
The deep curve usually found in the back is so pro-
nounced that it weakens the back. There should be a
slight curve in the lumbar region, that is perfectly natur-
al. However, the de~p curve is indicative of weakne~ and
t:Qe back should be broad, fiat and strong.
The skeleton and the spine cannot of themselves
support the weight of the body. It is the muscles, not the
skeleton that holds man el'ect. The spinal column does
not hold the body erect, it is the various muscles of the
body that do that job. Incorrect posture and careless
slumping are conducive to weakness of body and back.
Possibly the best way to make the back strong with-
out exercise is to lie on a flat surface, floor or bed. Raise
the knees and keep advancing them toward the chin until
you feel your entire spine traveling the floor the whole
length of your back. Remain in this position for a min-
ute, then lower your legs back straight along the floor,
keeping your back flat and grimly RESISTING the ten-
dency of the spine to return to a dee'P curve condition.
As the back becomes flattened you will gratefully
notice that your breathing becomes easier and any ten-
dency toward constipation is being overcome. Former in-
ner pressure is being relieved and a larger measure of
health is being restored to the bodv.
The Magic of Breath Power
While lying on the back 'with your knees close to
your breast, place your index finger upon your right nos-
tril and begin to sniff in a dozen short breaths from the
breathing center - the diaphragm. Hold all the breaths
and then forcibly expel them through both nostrils. A
dozen such breaths will prove of INESTIMABLE value
in moving and exercising all the abdominal organs. This
special breathing movement is called "THE INNER EX-
ERCISE."
"MEET THE WORLD WITH YOUR
BREAST"
Form the habit of lifting your chest when you stand
up. The lifting of the chest prevents colds and lung dis-
orders as it allows more air to play in the lungs. Correct
breathing is chiefly based on the observance of proper
posture while sitting and standing. The formation of good
posture is mainly in the beginning a question of desire
and will power in harmonious combination.
It bespeaks lack of pride in our physical make-up
when we stand with our abdomen protruding. Such a
condition indicates we are negligent in our care of our
body. Too many of us expect the body to do all the work
without our own personal co-operation. The law of the
universe is "What we do not protect we lose". Because of
our ignorance or shallow indifference toward the under-
standing of the needs of our body, we presently sicken
and die. Life could be lived longer and better if we devel-
oped the knack of putting more life into our years
through the practice of correct posture and Vitalic
Breathing.
THE WAY TO PREVENT COLDS
There are many reasons for colds, but the chief one
is lack of oxidation. Many, many years have elapsed since
the writer suffered from a cold and I never expect again
to contract a cold or suffer a bodily pain or attract dis-
ease. Mosquitoes are attracted to the swamp because of
the nature of the swamp. Clear away the SWAMP and
the mosquitoes seek another swamp. Colds are attracted
by the swampy condition of the system. When the blood
is pure and the system sweet, cold germs go elsewhere
for refuge to do their dirty work.
The Magic of Breath Power
The eating of VITAL FOOD in moderation is op-
posed to the influx of cold germs. The steady practice of
pure oxygen bombardment via Vitalic Breathing will
keep cold germs on the defensive. Colds go to the person
who attracts them. Colds are never possible where pure
blood and sweet tissues hold sway. Ensure freedom from
colds by adopting these simple health habits that outwit
them and keep them as far from you as one pole is to
the other.
ENDING UGLY NASAL CATARRH
Mucus comes from mucus forming foods and the end
products of bodily wastes. OXYGEN DISSOLVES
MUCUS. The average person is a shallow breather and
his body is crying for oxygen to dissolve the sugary and
pasty starchy foods so immoderately used by the general
run of people.
Vitalic Breathing when faithfully practiced puts an
end to nasal catarrh. The increased intake of oxygen
burns up these mucus wastes and toxins and the need
for a handkerchief is but seldom necessary throughout
the day. Spend the next five minutes walking out of doors
practicing the Blackbird Breath. Note how FREELY you
are able to breathe after this walking and breathing
exercise.
Nasal catarrh like all other acid diseases is self-
made. It is merely an unpleasant advertisement that
shrieks to all who contact us "I do not know how to eat
or breathe correctly !" Mend your habits instantly if an-
noyed by nasal catarrh.
TIDS IS TO SHOCK YOU!
IT IS AN ACCEPTED FACT THAT ONE BILLION
PEOPLE, ONE-HALF THE ENTIRE POPULATION OF
THE EARTH, ARE SUFFERING FROM INCURABLE
DISEASES.
THERE IS A REASON FOR THIS TRAGIC
CONDITION OF ILLNESS
IT IS LIKEWISE ASSERTED THAT EIGHT HUN-
DRED THOUSAND OTHER PEOPLE ARE HUNGRY
OR SUFFERING FROM VARIOUS LESSER DISEASES.
-+ 37 +-
The Magie of Breath Pe~@JI
TOO, THERE IS A REASON BEillND
THIS DIRE AND UNNECESSARY
TRAGEDY
ALMOST EVERY LIFE ON EARTH IS MORE OR
LESS OF A TRAGEDY BECAUSE- WE TREAT
SYMPTOMS INSTEAD OF CAUSES. THIS IS THE
COLOSSAL IGNORANCE OF THE AGE.
When a child brings hotne a notice from the school
doctor that the eyes of the child are weak and advises
glasses to be fitted, then the parents provide the glasses.
The parents think they are WISE in their action, but are
they?
SOMEWHERE, SOMETIME IN THE FUTURE,
WHEN SUCH A CONDITION CONFRONTS THE
PARENTS, THE PARENTS WILL BE SUFFICIENTI.Y
ADVANCED AND WISE ENOUGH TO ASK uwHAT IS
THE CAUSE BEHIND THE WEAKNESS OF MY
CHILD'S SIGHT?"
Today, save with an occasional rare exception,
symptoms are treated as causes. The causes continue to
be overlooked and new hospitals, new jails, new insane
asylums, new court houses, continue to be erected to cope
with ever-increasing sickness, crime, insanity and death.
HOW LONG, HOW LONG, YE PEOPLE OF THE
EARTH, HOW LONG WILL YE CHOOSE TO LIVE IN
DARKNESS OF COMPREHENSION WHEN THE LIGHT
OF TRUTH IS AVAILABLE TO ALL WHO EARNEST-
LY SEEK IT?
MEN AND WOMEN, TAKE TIME
TO THINK!
Henceforth, observe symptoms, but search for the
causes and deal with them rightly and the annoying
symptoms vanish. This is a world of LAW, not chance.
Everything and every creature in this world is governed
by law, subject to law, controlled by law. Let us in the
future study sickness as the reaction to faulty habits of
living and consider it not in itself a cause.
- 38 t-
The Magic of Breath Power
Men can only find TRUTH and life liberation by self-
thinking. Every person who does not think for himself
and reason out the problems of life is subject to exploita-
tion by those who profit by the ignorance of others. It
surely is difficult to think for one's self - a scant five
per cent of the people have the will or urge to become
free through seif-thinking.
Unless we protect our lives and guard them by think-
ing things out for ourselves, we will lean on others prob-
ably more blind than ourselves, and after loss of time and
money, all parties concerned will find themselves landed
in the ditch of failure or death.
YOU DO NOT BR~ATHE WITH YOUR NOSE -
YOU DO NOT BREATHE WITH YOUR MOUTH -
YOU DO NOT BREATHE WITH YOUR LUNGS -
YOU DO NOT BREATHE WITH YOUR DIA·
PHRAGM- {
YOU DO BREATHE BY THE ACTION OF THE
MUSCLES OF THE TORSO.
If the muscles of the torso are paralyzed, death en-
sues very quickly. Train the stomach region to expand
every time you breathe consciously. It is impossible to
breathe unless by muscular action of the chest or abdom-
inal muscles. Train the abdominal region to move in and
out every time you breathe consciously or unconsciously.
Perfection of breathing comes from desire to breathe
vitalically, coupled with everlasting training and practice
in good breathing habits. The results of practicing Vitalic
Breathing are so beneficient that the time and energy
consumed will bring in precious dividends and health re-
wards, blessing every hour of life.
A perfect life of constant health and glorious youth
must be paid for. Rich blessings do not just happen -
they must be earned by the formation and practice of
super-habits of breathing and eating. When we earn our
health and happiness by WISE methods of living, we hold
these assets for all time.
HOW TO BREATHE FOR SINGING
Never raise the clavicles or the u•
pper ribs. Get your
breath power from the extension of the abdominal region
to the sides and to the front. As you begin to sing, extend
-+ 39 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
the diaphragm as much as possible. Make the extended
diaphragm act as the breath support. As you exhaust the
air, at every opportunity breathe in MORE air through
the mouth or nose, the best you can.
In an experiment made by Dr. Mays of Philadelphia
with 82 girls ranging from 10 to 22 years belonging to
uncivilized races, seventy-five of the girls demonstrated
pure abdominal breathing. Seven girls who had lived
with civilized people displayed a tendency to upper chest
breathing. Among all primitive people, breathing is al-
ways abdominal. Among civilized nations, usually there
is a tendency toward chest respiration.
Abdominal breathing aids in preventing constipation
because of the downward churning and massaging action
caused by the abdominal breath. Abdominal vitalic sniffs
are really an inner form of exercise which activate all
the organs situated in the abdominal cavity. Keep up the
health habit of Vitalic Breathing whenever the body is
in a state of activity. Increased energy, body litheness
and augmented bodily grace and ease will most
ASSUREDLY follow.
THE LAUGIDNG BREATH
Lie on back, arms outstretched at right angles to the
body. Concentrate on the diaphragmatic region and begin
to practice vitalic sniffing. Now begin to "Ha, ha, ha,"
and, "Ho, ho, ho," for a few minutes. ·As you relax the
face let your countenance light up with a smile and en-
deavor to behave as if you were thoroughly enjoying the
situation.
As you laugh your "Ho's" and "Ha's", see that the
stomach region leaps up and down "like a bowlful of
jelly." Each Ha and Ho must shake and move all the ab-
dominal region. The more sincerity you display in your
laugh, the better health reaction will be from the practice
of this most important exercise. It is good to laugh, but
when the laugh deeply exercises the abdominal organs,
the act of laughing is doubly profitable.
THE BLOOD REQUIRES AN OXYGEN
BATH TWICE EACH MINUTE
The body's need for oxygen is so great that every
30 seconds from birth until death, the blood must pass
-+ 40 +-
The Magic of Breath 'Power
through the lungs to be bathed in life-giving oxygen.
Oxygen is the life of the body and rarely does a human
being take in enough oxygen for the needs of the body.
Abundance of oxygen is present everywhere to be had for
~he mere effort of inhaling it into our lungs, yet many
men and women die prematurely for lack of oxygen in-
take.
The doctor knows the value of oxygen and often ad-
ministers tanks full to dying patients, but almost always
it is then too late. If fresh air were priced at a dollar a
gallon, everybody would consider it very valuable. Be-
cause it is ubiquitous and free, it is not sufficiently res-
pected or really valued.
The brain is always BATHED in oxygen and oxygen
is needed in all the inner vital functions and processes
of metabolism. If we inhale too much oxygen the body
refuses to accept more than is necessary for normal use.
Resolve this moment that you are going to be good to
yourself and determine that you are going to walk 15
minutes every day and breathe in vitalic sniffs as you
walk. Thus will you pump into your system a necessary
amount of oxygen to supply FULLY your body needs.
WHEN YOU TRAVEL IN AN AffiPLANE
PRACTICE FORCffiLE EXHALING OF
BREATH FOR TWO MINUTES AFTER
ASCENSION
Upper air has less oxygen and less atmospheric
pressure than air in the ground vicinity. Plan to get out
all the high pressure air from your body whenever you
travel by air. As you exhale the ground pressure air upon
rising, there is no danger of rupturing the blood vessels
of the eyes which has sometimes happened. The passage
of all the blood through the lungs every thirty seconds is
not alone to cleanse and purify the blood, but also so
that the danger of different pressures of air in blood ves-
sels might be circumvented.
BREATHE YOUR HEARING DEFECTS
AWAY
We can control and direct our breath toward any
part of the body including the ears. If suffering from
-+ 41 +-
The Magit: of Breath Power
impaired he'aring, concentrate on the inner ear and men-
tally direct the breath toward that point. Imagine that
the breath you are DIRECTING into the inner ear is cor-
recting the impairment of hearing.
Science proves that intense vibrations are pouring
through the tips of the fingets and the vibration i8suing
from the tips of the middle fingers have a decided heal-
ing quality. The particular energy exuding from the mid-
P,le fihg~r is tailed the "gre~n" ot ''odi'c" r~y. It 'Oscillates
in two reverse circles and two reverse straight li'nes.
To improve defective hearing, plaee the tip of the
middle finger of the right hand in the O'pen passage of
the left ear. Place the tip of the middle finger of the left
hand in the pasSa.ge of the right ear. Twice a day until
improvement is noticed, insert the fingers as outlined for
periods of three to five minutes.
SNORING IS TAKING AN UNFAIR
ADVANTAGE OF OTHERS
Overeating and underbreathing are the main causes
of snoring. Be the cause what it may, if it exists it should
be strenuously fought until it is completely vanquished.
Snorers destroy the rest and disturb the nerves of those
who are compelled to be in their environment. Actually,
snoring is DANGEROUS to the health of the snorer, as
well as his family. Those who snore and are indifferent to
its consequences to the other members of the family
should be restrained or punished.
Fortunately we have discovered a method whereby
snoring can be eliminated quite speedily. Change your
eating habits first of all, no heavy food for three hours
before retiring. A few minutes before retiring fill up the
lungs by inhaling six vitalic sniff breaths. Now, place the
tips of the thumb and first finger of the right hand against
the opening of the nostrils and shut off 75 % of the capac-
ity of the nasal passages.
Begin to forcibly blow out the retained six sniff
breaths against the finger tips, taking twice as long to
expel the air as in taking it in. A score of these breaths
taken before retiring will speedily help to restore self-
respect to the snorer. No longer will the members of the
The Magic of Breath Power
family be compelled to stuff cotton batting into their
~rs. The snorer doesn't snore any more and all is QUIET
during the hour8 of repose.
NEVER TAKE IN MORE AIR THAN
IS NECESSARY
Inhaling too much may tire the chest muscles. No
noise is necessary in sniffing. Merely let the diaphragm
protrude and absorb the air into the base of the lungs
when Vitalic Breathing is practiced, while standing or
!'litting. There should be no strain involved in Vitalic
Breathing. There should be no swelling of the neck. No
enlargement of the jugular veins. No spasmodic con-
traction or twitching. Make the breathing gentle, easy,
restful, with all action downward, never upward.
One of the indications of faulty breathing is sore-
ness or tiredness of the lungs. Eliminate the idea of strain
while sniffing. Do not over-breathe in the beginning. Just
let the abdominal muscles gently pull the diaphragm
downward and the resulting vacuum will allow more air
and energy to CIRCULATION through the lungs.
WOMEN SHOULD BREATHE LIKE MEN
Women should abandon the bad habit of constrict-
ing the abdominal region by the use of cloth corsets.
Elastic girdles are quite suited for full breathing as they
are resilient and stretch under the impetus of the down-
ward surge of the diaphragm. Women are more inclined
toward chest breathing than are men.Centuries of corset
wearing are behind this condition.
Free breathing habits enable men to look younger
than women. It is claimed that the average man of 45 to
.50 looks as young as the average woman of 40. With the
discovery of VITALIC BREATHING, women by the
thousands are using this breathing system with the utmost
satisfaction. Women are FINDING new youth, vigor and
vitality through feeding the cells of the body an abun-
dance of life-affording oxygen through vitalic sniffs.
SNIFF WHEN YOU WALK -
TALK WliEN YOU ARE AT REST
Great strain is involved in walking, climbing and
exercising. Consequently, the time to talk is not while
The Magic of Breath Power
you are walking or exercising. The practice of breath
control while the body is in a state of activity prevents
much speech or conversation. The GREATEST of busi-
nesses, is t.he business of living. Become a breathing mas-
ter so that you will have a better chance to live ·better
and longer.
IN VERY COLD WEATHER DO NOT
SNIFF DEEPLY
During severe winter weather do not inhale with
the same volume as in fine weather. Reduce the depth of
the intake at last one-half. Simply nurse the air into the
lungs a little at the time. When leaving a heated room
at night and stepping out into cold weather, be careful
to keep your mouth CLOSED and breathe the cold air
gingerly through the nose.
When stepping from a warm room into very cold
outer weather, be sure that you do not speak. The cold
air may pass in through t.he open mouth and congest the
lungs. The reaction to lung congestion is the liability to
a severe fit of coughing. This spell of coughing may last
for hours; therefore, it is well to be watchful during the
winter months when confronted with these special con-
ditions.
THE M.t\GNETIC BREATH BATH
After arising, sit in three inches of lukewarm or
slightly cold water in bathtub. Allow cool or cold water
to run in in sufficient quantity to cover the legs entirely.
Splash the cool water all over the body, then arise, dry
the skin and gently pat entire body with the hands.
Breathe two sniffs in and one out, resting for a sec-
ond or two before taking the next intake, during the pa~
ting process. This is really a youth bath, and the entire
physical organism is bettered by it; it might profitably be
made a DAILY habit.
Allowing cold water to flow over the head is not at
all a wise procedure. Such a course has been known to
cause incurable deafness. Strenuous cold water showers
on the head are not recommended even for the strongest
person.
-+ 44 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
Nor are very· hot baths advised unless by order of
your physician. The tepid bath does not rob the body of
its oil or electricity; the very hot bath does. Cool or cold
water over the entire body is recommended, but when
there is a stream of cold water directed against the top of
the head, it is too much of a shock to the delicate cranial
system.
VITALIZE THE BLOOD
Provide two basins, one to contain cold water, the
other warm water. Place the right hand in the cold water,
the left hand in the warm water. Place the dripping right
hand across the back of the neck witb a firm pressure,
rub it to and fro four times. Return right hand to the
basin of cold water and apply the left hand twice to the
back of the neck.
About ten complete applications with both hands
will be found of the utmost benefit for blood and spine.
The blood flows in large volume at the back of the neck.
After you have mastered the rubbing of the right
hand four times across the neck, followed by the left
hand rubbing two rubs, then endeavor to breathe in vital-
ic sniffs as you do the rubbing.
Sniff in twice in a gentle manner and immediately
exhale the breath as you use the right hand for rubbing.
Simply rest from breathing as you apply the left hand.
As you again use the right hand proceed to breathe as
before. No sniffing is practiced with left hand rubbing;
it is the RESTING period.
RELAX FOR HEALTH AND EFFICIENCY
Sit loosely erect and drop your head on your chin,
eyes closed. As you lift your chin upward and backward,
sniff in two quick breaths. At the same time imagine that
the entire body is relaxed and calm. After 5 or 10 seconds
gently lower the chin on the breast and at the same time
expel the retained air through the nose.
After another 5 or 10 seconds rest with the chin on
the breast, continue breathing upward as before. If tired,
worried or mentally upset, this relaxing breath will be
found most excellent for the steadying of nerves and the
~ 45 +-
The Magic of Breath Power
banishment of bodily tension. Before retiring is the ideal
time to practice. Hold the idea of reat, harmony an4
peace as you execute the movements. The accruing :re-
sults will be most gratifying.
TEN FINAL BREATIDNG HINTS
When yo.u walk on level grpqn~ l_{eep your body
erect and swing the arms from the shoulders back of the
hands to the front. Knees loosely unbent.
When you olimb hills or stairs bend the knees ~nd
turn the thumbs of hands toward the front.
Coming down stairs rapidly, breathe two sniffs in
and two sniffs out, arms resting by the sides.
Coming down hills, breathe as coqting qown stairs,
but both arms shoulq swing in the ~arne direction from
side to side. Body &hould lean slightly baGkward descend-
ing hills. ·
Never let the body incline :forward or b~c\<ward
while walking on ]~vel ground. The body should be held
erect always while walking on level ground.
If very tired sniff in twice most vigorously and forc-
ibly expel both breaths through the nose. ·Four sl_!ch
breaths will invigorate tired muscles.
Five minutes ea~h day should be spent in voice im-
provement. The nose should be pinched tightly by the
thumb and forefinger of the right hand, and each letter
of the alphabet should be distinctly spoken as the pas·
sages of the nose are pinched closed.
Form the habit of speaking in breath as you walk;
instructions are given elsewhere in book.
Sniff in sunlight rays by using a mirror to deflect the
sunlight up into the nostrils. Sunlight is Nature's health
magic.
If eyes are becoming impaired, concentrate on the
eyes and imagine you are breathing in and out through
the eyes. A few minutes of this exercise daily should
greatly help restoration to normal sight. Sniff twice and
immediately eX'pel in this movement.
