{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__anonymous___journeys_into_the_moon.pdf","mytitle":"Journeys Into The Moon","mylang":"de"}
JOURNEYS
INTO THE
MOON, SEVERAL PLANETS AND THE SUN.
HISTORY OF A
. FEMALE
SOMNAMBULIST,
0? WKILUilM O.N THE TECK. IN THE KINGDOM OF
^ WUEHTEMBERG, IN THE YKARS l832 AND 1833.
A BOOK,
In which all persons willfind important disclosures, con
cerning their fate hereafter.
Translated. as literally as possible. for the publishers in America. from
the orisinal. in German. which was published by a
daily eye-witness. and friend of truth.
THE HIGHER REVELATIONS.
Copy-right tecured, according to Law.
$HCU* eiyn.fa:
FJUNTE1) AT NO. 270 NORTH SECOND STREET, FOH
YOLI.MKR AND HAGaENMACHER.
1837.
I thank tliee, 0! Father,' Lord of Heaven and Eartn/
that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent,
and hast revealed them unto babes : even so, Father (or
so it seemed in thy sight, Luke 10, SI.
For it is written : I will destroy the wisdom of the
wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the
prudent. 1 Cor. 1, 19.
(Isaiah 29, 14.\
REFERENCES.
Pflgo 2. R, of St.. stands for Richard of Stuttgardt.
— 7. Dr. O. of K. stands for Dr. Osterlein ofKirch-
heim. -
— 9. Dr. H. of G. stands for Dr. Hartman of Goep-
pingen.
— 52. Dr. A, of K. stands lor Dr. Abele of Kirchheim
•
INDEX.
enth Journey into Jupiter, .-
Page.
Introduction, / - - 1
Birth of Juvenile years, P -' 5
Commencement of the state of Somnambulism, first
appearance of a guide, - - - - 8
Fourth visit of this guide, - - - l0
First and second Journey, - - , - H
First Journey to the unhappy, - -l8
Second Journey to the unhappy, - - l3
Third Journey to the unhappy, - * 14
First Journey into the Moon, - - IT
Second Journey into the Moon, - - l9
Third Journey into the Moon, - 23
Fourth Journey into the Moon, - -25
First Journey into Mercury, - - 27
Second Journey into Mercury, - - SO
Third Journey into Mercury, - - 84
Fourth Journey into Mercury, - . - 4l
Visits of the guides and consecration for higher -
Journey!), - - - - 40
First Journey into Venus, - . - - 52
Second Journey into Venus, .- .- 54
Third Journey1 into Venus, - - - 58
Fourth Journey into Venus, - . '- 60
~ifih Journey into Venus,
'
_ - - - 63
ixth Journey into Venus, . - - 69
^c*
Seventh Journey into Venus, - - 73
k— -
First Journey into Jupiter, t 76
^Second Journey into Jupiter, - - 78
Occurrences after the Second Journey into
y
'
Jupiter, - - - - . .- 8l
-> Third Journey into Jupiter, - - - 84
^"""Occurrences
after this Journey, - - . , - 9l
Fourth Journey into Jupiter, - - - 92
.n Occurrences after this Journey - 96
*"< Fifth Journey into Jupiter, -
-(
- 98
Occurrences after (his Journey, -
'
- l0l
Sixth Journey into Jupiter, - - - l02
Occurrences after this Journey, - 104
Seventh Journey into Jupiter, .- - 105
IV
Occurrence* after tins Journey, -. - lOT
Eighth Journey into Jupiter, - - -. 108
Occurrences after this Journey, - - 112
First Journey into Ceree, - - - 114
Second Journey into Ceres, -
v
- - 118
Third Journey into Ceres, - - '- 12S
Occurrences alter this Journey, - . . - 125
Fourth Journey into Ceres, - - - 127'
Fifth Journey into, Ceres, - - - 131
Sixth Journey into Ceres, - - - 134
Seventh Journey into Ceres, - - - 1 39
Eighth Journey into Ceres, -
*
- 142
Occurrences after this Journey, .- - 144
'
Ninth Journey into Ceres,, - - - 145
Tenth Journey into Ceres, - - . - 150
Eleventh Journey 'into Ceres, - - 153:
Twelfth Journey into Ceres, - - 156
Occurrences after this Journey, and Consecration
for the Journeys to Saturn and Uranus, - 158
Journeys into Saturn and Uranus, - ' - 16*
Occurrences during the last Journeys to Uranus,
Consecration for the Journeys to the Sun, - 165
First Journey into fhe Sun, - - - 169
Second Journey jnto the Sun, - ' - 178
Third Journey into the Sun, - - -
- 1**
Continuation of the Journeys into the Sun, - 187'
Fourth Journey into the Sub, - - - 188
Fifth Journey into the Sub, - - 188
Sixth and Seventh Journeys into the Sun, - 189
Eighth and Ninth Journeys into the Sun, - 190
Te nth, Eleventh, Twelfth and Fourteenth Jour
neys into the Sun ,
- - 19"
Fifteenth, Sixteenth Seventeenth and Eighteenth .
Journey into the Sun, - - ,191
Consecration for the Journeys into the New -
Jerusalem, - -
^
193
Journevs tnto the New Jerusalem, - .. J.W
- • ' •
'
- SOS
INTRODUCTION.
Not without interest will the honored reader of this
book remark the wonderful occurrences to a maiden, —
which, as the following relation of her life will prove—
were caused neitherby excitement of mind, nor the day-
dreams of an overwraught imagination, but solely the
effect of a feeble system of the nerves; by means of
which the girl was transported into a periodical state of
Somnambulism. In such a magnetic situation her spirit
each time rose from the Earth into higher regions, and
was enabled to see things, which remain concealed to the
terrestrial eye 1—In this manner-the scenes are brought
before the proper reader, from the hitherto unknown em
pire of spirits in those worlds, that glisten on the firma
ment.
This faculty of second-sight is founded on no kind of
illusion, & still less fraud; men of credibility come forward
as unexceptionable witnesses, and if they should not suf
fice, there are a number of such indubitable examples re
corded in History.
Supported by the opinion of former phisiologists, Dr.
Weber of Dillingen, (director of the Royal Lyceum and
Professor of Medicine, and subsequently Dean of the Ca
thedral at Augsburg) has in more recent times, also said
a word on the subject of " Somnambulism," in the third
chapter of his pamphlet, which appeared atLandshut (in
1816) entitled: "Animal Magnetism, or the Mys
teries of Human Life."
Important and remarkable notices on those, possessing
the faculty of second-sight, have been adduced by We
•2
serman in his work, entitled: "Magnelitm and ike Lan
guage of the Universe,'''' published in 1822.
What the sentiments expressed by Professor Eschen-
mayer of Tubingen, the 24th of November, 1835, and
2d of January, 1833 were, is communicated to the ho
nored reader in his following two letters:
I.
"I rejoice very much, that you give me some particu
lars relative to the state of Magnetism, in which the young
lady, your daughter, finds herself at present. Undoubt
edly is this a case of voluntary Somnambulism, combined
with second-sight, which does not seldom occur to girls,
that have approached their age of developement: Me-
thatesis into other regions or planets, does sometimes
happen to such persons. Particularly was this the case
with the Somnambulist R in St . : . . .
who was treated magnetically by Mr. Schelling, Coun
sellor of Medicine. All these persons, placed in tome
degree into a state of second-seeing, allege that, they have
a guide or guardian, angel, who inlorms them of all things,
which they cannot know themselves.
My advice, drawn from my own extensive experience
with Somnambulists, is as follows:
1. Leave the affair entirely its own course, as it may
develope itself; keep off' all useless intruders, who ge
nerally intermeddle but to disturb, and procrastinate the
eure, which of itself would take place.
2. Ask the Somnambulist, each time that she is placed
in a state of second -seeing, whether she cannot indicate
«yr means, that might be salutary to her? Those pre
scriptions given by herself, must then be accurately fol
lowed and will certainly effect a cure. Other medical
means are generally superfluous,
3. 'Record every thing accurately that may happen in
each time, when she is m a state of Somnambulism, and
be careful that she„may not be interrupted by useless ques
tions, except it be that the Somnambulist had permitted
questions to be put to her.
4. If this person should be able to bear a magneti*
-treatment, she wiH jio doubt also be able to name him
3
who is to administer the same to tier, and to indicate the
method, agreeably to which the treatment is to be effect
ed. But he would have to be previously told, that he
must neither spare time nor trouble, in the least fulfil
ment of her injunctions. I know it from my own ex
perience, that it requires uncommon exertions. He that
has not time to devote himself' thereto, had better not
mmd the whole concern; for, when once begun, it cannot
be interrupted, without the greatest injury to the invalid.
Cheerfully would I convince myself of the character
of the Somnambulism of this person, but my health which
for some time has been very frail, docs not permit ma,
at this season of the year, to undertake the journey, tftc.
n.
"I have'received your two last letters. The symp-
toms, mentioned in your second letter, are remarkable in
many respects. As it respects the many reports, Of
which you complain, you must disregard them, because
the incredulity and silliness of mankind are not to be al
tered. Only then can such reports be avoided, if access
be refused to such people, and such a parson be managed
without attracting notice. At the time, when I magne
tised the twd Somnambulists here, that were my patients
none were permitted to be present, except two friends
and their relations, and hence it happened, that both
Somnambulists recovered without hindrance, on the very
day, they had at first predicted. If this rule be not ob
served, interruptions often occur, which procrastinate
the matter and render it very embarrassing.
Magnetism ought to ba considered as a remedy, and
not as an instrument, whereby to explore miraculous
things. The symptoms are not miraculous, but only ex
traordinary, because thev do not happen to a person
when awake. The Phenomena, of which you write, I
have generally observed on those Somnambulists, who
were my patients; but in the female ojie, at Weinsberg,
1 saw them most strongly exhibited, &c. "
The history, so long since universally expected by
many, is now submitted to an honored public; it is couch
4
erl in terms destitute of all rethorical ornaments, and the
female Somnambulist herself generally introduced as
speaking, but always in the same language, used by her
self with a child-like simplicity, in order that the words
may not be disguised and rendered indiscernable.
Consciousness, in publishing this book to have yielded
to a sense of duty, not to keep the revelations therein,
contained from the knowledge of the world, the pub
lisher shall despise the incredulity and stupidity, where
with it will be assailed by mockers and scoffers; and he
begs in conclusion to call to mind the following lines from
Kalis:
NOAHS DOVE.
(4 Parable.)
'Ere Noah once his Dove did send,
To seek the land of faith,
Unknown, in distant ocean placed:
He of a Haven first the trial made,
Whose keen eye-sight,
Acknowledged was, by all,
But ah! his flight was deep and 9I0W!
"Now if the old, experienced seeker
"High up in air, cannot himself maintain,
"Where but the eye, the aim can see,
"The Falcon bold to fly may try,
"He knows appearance well, and anticipation
"How false they are, and deceiving,
"His head is quite the source ot recognition."
High did he raise himself.-
And moved around in narrow circles,
Comparing, doubting, thinking freej
But soon returned to prove quite clear, ^
'
. .
To hope for land would be illusion,
The Crane now had his flight begun,
And much was hoped, that he the land would see,
The clouds he pierced with strong desire,
But certainty he did not bring;
Alarm now spread, and tears flew,
5
The feeble now to doubt begun;
When a meek-eyed Dove with resolution,
On wing arose to heavenly spheres,
To save the crew, and her companions,
From deep distress, and false opmion.
She sought, discerning through the gloomy vapours,
The looked-for Land, bright with Aurora's rays,
And that sweet Olive tree —of Peace the token sure,
Eternal — reaching high above all minor things below,
A twig of this she plucked,
And brought it back to those,
That met her with loud acclamations,
When humblv she laid it down on the Altar's steps;
The Falcon with his crooked bill,
And bloated up with pedantry,
Defies the message as a fable,
The Crane does sigh, the Raven scold;
But Noah's glance commands their silence,
And bids the pious Dove draw nigh:
"Behold the Pure God as his witness chose*,
"And shows Humility her path;
"Would you the ImtuI of Faith descry, '
Obedience you must learn and Trust in Heaven!"
BIRTH AND JUVENILE YEARS.
Pauline Dorathea Beverlv, was born at Weil-
heim in the year 1816, on the 2nd of June, as on the
holy festival of Whitsun-tide. She was in her childhood
always somewhat weakly, but not to say sickly ; in the
fifth and sixth years of her age, she suffered much in re
spect to her eyes, and for a considerable length of time,
received the medical attendance of the Oculist, Docter
Schrag, who at present resides in Schorndorf, and with
the help of God, was fully restored.
In her days of childhood, she exhibited no particular ta
lents; her faculties to learn were quite mediocre, reading
and writing which she understood well, but as to sing
ing she never had any talent. —Female companions and
amusements she never was very fond of, nor had sh
an inclination for dissipation; but for all that was rcli-
g'ous, she uniformly showed a particular predilection.
After passing her school years, she remained always
in the house of her parents, nor had she during that time,
(constantly) a female companion.
Every diversion, of which dancing formed a part, she
always loathed. In her thirteenth year, she was once
sent to a marriage feast, which took place at a distance
of an hour's walk, from there. This was done for the
purpose of giving her a little pleasure, but before three
hours had elapsed, she had already returned. When she
came back to her home, she said:
"They also invited me to dance, but I refused; I must
iay that it quite disgusted me, and I rejoiced from the
bottom of my soul, when I had left the turmoil. How
can people be so mad ! I will but tell you, that you must,
neither here, nor elsewhere, send me to another wed
ding."
She too has kept her word, for to this hour, she could
not be persuaded to go to another wedding.
She devoted herself most faithfully to domestic af
fairs, and shewed in all great dexterity. At the age of wo
manhood, she arrived already in her 15th year.
Public worship she attended very diligently, after
which she usually staid at home, and passed her time in
reading ecclesiastical books; what she could not well com
prehend, she desired to be informed of.
Before she fell mto a state of Somnambulism, she com
plained for some time of nervous debility and sleepiness;
out no one would have thought, that Somnambulism
would be the consequence.
Amongst the main traits of her character were the
following. 1. That she always found apeculiar pleasure,
in comforting the poor and indigent. 2. That she never
slandered her fellow-creatures, and always was a hater and
enemy of lies. 3. To prayer she always attended assi
duously, doubly so. near the commencement of her State
of Somnambulism, but only in retirement; often would she
withdraw and seek out for herself some little spot, where
she thought herself concealed, fall on her knees, and pray
to God!
It was most pleasing to her, when she could accom
plish this, altogether unlistened to by others, a method
which she yet pursues- Her parents she often implores to
warn and punish her, if she should commit the least of
fence, in word or deed. In regard to ostentatious
clothing,she hasduring her whole life time, not embarrass
ed her parents,and much less afflicted them, although she is
a great friend to cleanliness.
It is true, that since Somnambulism has ceased to affect
her, she has become more perfect, in regard to her body,
but her nerves still remain very weak, -and she frequently
fell asleep before the usual time. Company has still no
particular attractions for her; to be in the circle of her re
lations, is the most agreeable to her; amusements, during
which something frivolous or sinful might appear, she
shuns entirely.
-
COMMENCEMENT OF THE STATE
FIRST APPEARANCE OP A GUIDE. ...
In the beginnwgof the month of January, 1832, this
girl complained of being frequently attacked with spells of
weakness, and soon after, about evening, actually feli into
a short sleep,. This at first was considered an illness,
and finally an idea occurred to those around her, to waken
her, which however did not succeed; for they were com
pelled to wait, until she would awaken oi her own accord.
On the question being put to her: how she felt in
her sleep? she replied: "that she could say nothing more
of it, than that when asleep, she always found herself
in profound darkness."
Dr. O in , was then consulted on
the subject, and the spells this person labored under wer«
related to him, whereupon, he answered, that they were
symptoms of Somnambulism, adding at the same time,
that it would be salutary to her in future, if this state
could be re-pressed, and giving it as his advice, to mag
netise her a few times for doing which, he indicated the
method, to which he, however, added, that if the sleepy
symptoms should increase, it might be taken for granted
Magnetising had no effect ; it was therefore immedi
ately abandoned aud everything left to a turn of nature,
no one is the least harboring a belief, that this girl would
SOMNAMBULISM.
-teeaS38ai>-
9
ever fall into such a state of Somnambulism, But as
her spells rather appealed to increase than decrease,
Doctftr H..,, of G the physician of the Oberamt wai
applied to; whose views in every respect corresponded
with those of Dr. O , and who recommended in addi
tion, to take frequent walks with her in the open
air, when the weather would admit thereof, that she
might loose her inclination to sleep ; and that it would
not be advisable to use medical means, to prevent it; he
made particular enquiries as to her age, the development
of her sexual constitution (which had already occurred a
year before,) her occupations and what books she was in
the habit of reading. Whereupon he was told : that her
age was lGJ years, that her occupations consisted in
knitting, sowing, spinning, &c ; that the books perused
by her, were ecclesiastical, such as the Bible, John
Arndt's real Christendom, Hartman's Sermons, Freder
ick Starke's prayer-book, his morning and evening devo
tions. and other instructive prayers, also excellent hymns
in our Wirtemborg Hymnbook ; worldly books, except
, she was not acquainted with any.*) That
was without reproach, that she was by no
ilissipation and that it might be asser
ted, that she had until then not fallen from the state of
grace conferred upon her at the baptismal font.
The advice to take her out to walk was strictly fol
lowed, and a journey on foot to U. undertaken with her,
even in the middle of March, which going and coming
amounts to two and twenty post- hours, and was comple
ted in two and three quaiter days ; but instead of her
spells decreasing they gradually became more violent until
at length, about the end of the month of March l832, in
a sleep of somnambulism, which lasted nearly three
quarters of an hour; she stated that a Guide did shew him
self to her, whose person she accurately described, and de-
linaated asfollows, namely as:a handsomeyoung man, ap-
parentlyaged twenty fouryears, of a bright-red face, sharp
eyes, but notwithstanding all their seriousness, very affa->
ble; with hair somewhat curled and his clothes dark blue,
*) What here has been stated, can be proved by the
most creditable testimonials.
10
but which, as he informed her was not his real heaven I j-
habiliment, but that he was obliged this time and would
be the next, to show himself in this form, as she was .not
yet prepared to see him in his heavenly one."
Hereupon; she stated, that her Guide would visit her
again in three days, in order to make further revelations
to her, and to prepare her.
Further visits of this Guide-.
As our Somnambulist had stated, so it came to pass,
three days after, when at half past eight in the evening
she fell a sleep, during which time her Guide did present
himself in the form ajready described, and as it were,
consecrated her. At ihe same time he gave her this pro
mise :
"that she would attain a much higher faculty of second-
seeing, but as yet she was not qualified for it; that also
he would not immediately appear to her again, but that
sleep would overcome her more frequently, in which
state however she would not observe any thing but dark
ness, and now and then, a strong light ; bv this she
would be weakened, and prepared for what she should,
become."
All this actually happened. Not before the month of
August her Guide appeared to her again, but his visit
was quite short, nor did he reveal more to her, than
this :
"that about the middle of September he would again
appear to her." . . ,
This occurred punctually ; his stay was somewhat lon
ger, and he gave her to understand :
"that he would not return before the 19. October of
the second year, but on that day, at half past one
o'clock in the afternoon he would appear to her and
thenceforth more frequently — and undertake with her
the first journey." - .
But he did not tell her, which and to what place. . .
The appearance of the Guide became observable -by
this, that she always received him with her right hand,
and so retained him until he again disappeared.
11
Once for all it is here remarked : that this Somnambu
list, when awake, never knew the least of what she had
said in her Magnetic sleep, and each time asked :
"What is it then that I have spoken !'.'
First Journey.
On the 19. day of October 1832 at a quarter past one
©'clock in the afternoon she actually fell asleep; as soon
as the Clock struck half past one, the Guide presented
himself. But this journey only went so far, that she was
conducted by her Guide into a very dark valley, where
—as in her sleep she had previously said and always did
afterwards :
«' The darkness was so great and dense, as to be
tangible."
When this was past, she came into a light place,
.where her Guide told her :
~ *
"that he would have to take the same walk with her
back again and that this was but a preparation for the
three following journeys."
No peculiar object was shown to her at this time.
Second Journey.
The 2S. October, at the same time as before, her Guide
performed with her a similar journey and signified to her :
"that after these two journeys he would take two
journeys with her into the empire of the dead, where first
of all he would show her the situation of the unhappy."
These she desired to be exonerated, the two jour
neys performed
i
having already much weakened her,
whereupon her Guide replied thus :
•'that frightful as these dark valleys had appeared to
her and terrified as she had been at their sight it would
in order to lead her further, be indispensibly requisite,
that she should previously make a journey through the
I2
th ree regions of the unhappy; at the same time he in
formed her, that the first journey would take place on the
26th, the second on the 28th and the third not before the
3lst of October, so that she might somewhat regain her
strength ; each would be of longer duration, as he had to
show her objects of consequence."
First Journey to the Unhappy.
The 26. October in the afternoon immediately after
one o'clock she fell into a profound sleep.—The forenoon
during which the girl was quite cast down, was already
a harbinger of a momentous scene. — Her Guide having
appeared to her, he said :
"Now I will show you the first degr«e of the unhappy,
that have left this world, and added, that these had
yet a hope to be released therefrom, the time of their Jiber-
ation, being divided into days, months and years."
Arrived there, she said:
"That this abode was a dark valley, no end of which
was discernable, where the departed spirits felt neither
happy nor unhappy, and that the place was neither warm
nor cold; that in the midst of this valley, there was a pas
sage of considerable breadth, but that on both sides, they
were like spades set up, leaning close against each other;
that the higher up in the valley, the nearer was also the li
beration, the lower down, the longer would be the period of
their punishment."
At this declaration, she was asked by her brother, who
carried on with her the conversation; whether the unhappy
did receive no instruction from the spirits that werebless'
ed, how to promote their release? To which she replied:
"At present I perceive none."
Then she discoursed again with her guide, when it wa»
remarked, that her lips and tongue moved,—which also
ever after happened—but not the least word could be
heard, nor much less understood. —When this was past,
she began to^speak in the most distinct words, like one fully
awake:
13
."Mv guide tells me, that frequently blessed spirits
descend to preach: also to give them instruction,
and, as soon as one or the other has been re
leased from this place of punishment, they arebiought by
blessed spirits, and then taken to the last abode of bless
edness, (the Moon,) and this also does not remain their
constant dwelling-place, for the felicities increase from
Eternity to Eternity/'
On this occasion she was asked: whether she had not
met in this place such spirits, with whom she had been
acquainted in this world? she said:
"Yes, certainly, but she had been gravely and positive
ly forbidden by her guide, to indicate them; as it was
against the will of God. Such as were happy, she might
name, but only so far, as-she would be permitted by her
guide.
"
Second Journey to the Unhappy.
The 28th October, at half past one o'clock, in the af
ternoon, she was led by her guide, to the second class of
the unhappy.
This place- she again designated as a valley, larger,
darker and colder, as the former; the forms as more hi
deous, describing the number of those, that dwell here,
as innumerable, and not to be taken in at one view, not
only leaning closely against eacli other, but some of them
bent up like spades. — She became so much afflicted with
this situation, that she burst out into an unusual fit of
weeping.
Continuing in this distressed state, she was asked :
whether these unfortunate beings, had not also to expect
a better state? —After a long silence, she at length re
plied: . .
"I receive no distinct answer, eternities may elapse,
'ere amelioration will ensue." Upon which she prayed:
"Lord! teach me to act according to Thy will, for Thou
art my God, Thy good spirit, lead me to go the wav, I
should go,"
2
l4
Then she continued thus, ;
'Those in the first degree
are much to be pitied, but these still much more. Only
imagine, how dreadful it is, when the soul of man after
his death, is no longer refreshed by sleep, but pain*
and torments, eternally continuing in equal degree!
My guide tells me —
"You wonder greatly at those in the first and second
degrees, but how much more will you be surprised, when
in the third degree, you will be led to those that are quite
unhappy."
When she had finished, her Guide left her, and after
a quarter of an hour, she awoke, complaining or debility.
Although her features, but too plainly betrayed the
sorrow of her soul; she did not know the least of
what had happened.
Third Journey to the Unhappy.
October the Slst at half past one o'clock, as she had
predicted, she fell again into a deep sleep. Tins time
she was led by her Guide through a large passage of
dense darkness, and whilst going through the same she
often exclaimed :
"O dear Guide! do not leave me alone!5'"
It was very distinctly observed, how firmly she
grasped him, so that the strongest man would not have
been able, to open her right hand. Her parents be
lieved that before the accomplishment of this journey, she
would sink and her spirit take its departure.
On her arrival at the third degree, she burst into a
flood of tears and an unusual loud fit of sobbing. Hav
ing recovered a little, she began of her own accord to
speak, as follows :
"I have given you a description sufficiently sad, of
the first and second degree, but these sketches are not
in the least to be compared, with the third degree. The
valley is much larger and the number of those that are
here are infinitely greater ; here is nothing but dismal
l5
sighing, murmuring, lamenting and gnashing of teeth,
the forms are more loathsome and hideous, and hardly
to be looked upon ; they execrate and cursed each other
and wrangle even with God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit
itself. The place appears to be densely dark, sometimes
insufferably cold and at" others again intensly hot.
My Guide tells me; this is a real Hell, from this there
is no release to all eternity, these bear the name of ;
"the Damned."
Then she 'conversed again for a length of time with
her Guide, which was observed on her mouth and tongue,
and then resumed by speaking these words—
"The following I am permitted to reveal to you.
Namely I had asked—Having met amongst the three clas
ses of the Unhappy and Damned, not only multitudes, nay
innumerable millions, which by far I could not take in at a
glance, who then can be saved ? To which my Guide
replied —are you then unacquainted with the dear and
true Gospel of Jesus ? what do you read in it ? Is it not
written therein ? "Straight is the Gate and narrow is the
way which leadeth unto life (felicity) and few there be
that find it" and again— "For Many be called, but few
chosen ; further — "The Kingdom of God must be taken
t>j- fu. Jc" —alia than continued — my Guide says, that
the number of the Unhappy and Damned- is undoubtedry
much greater, than that of the Happy, but that the num
ber of these is also by no mean3 inconsiderable. That it
is the earnest will of Godithat all men be led into the
right way, and that All should arrive at a knowledge of
Truth, (those that perish, being lost by their own fault)
and that all those, that do not truly and earnestly strive
to be saved, according to the rules of the divine Scrip
tures, are rejected. Tell the inhabitants of the Earth
with emphasis ; that here there is no respect of persons,
whatever their state may have been in your world. I
give you the most solemn assurance, that the greatest
miser on your Globe of Sin, does not so closely watch his
accounts, where his interest is concerned than God does,
Sin ; for God does not permit the inhabitants of the
Earth, to prescribe to him his work, if they will accept
Salvation, so truly and more than kindly offered tothem^
16
for the conditions are and remain unalterable by Go<\
Particularly do I enjoin it upon you to tell it loudly to
thos^ that with you dwell on Earth ; if that, which-
was. foretold by Jesus the Redeemer and'after his resurj
rection, by his Apostles, here in this world, which wil
continue to all eternity, not a letter will be taken away,
sinful man may believe it or not, for here notfiing will
avail unto Salvation, but Regeneration, Why then do the
sinful inhabitants of the Earth lay not a greater stress
upon the attributes of God* so well established that He
is omniscient, omnipresent, attseeing, just, holy and true,
and abuse his forbearance so unwarrantably. — O! how
much are those to be pitied, who obstinately will neither
accept of, nor believe in a reward of Good, nor punish
ment for 111; how do. I pity those, who only then bdeive,
that they are punished, when tbey already have been
punished, &c. &c.
After this, whilst soliciting her Guide to. prolong his
siay and [after breaking mto a flood of tears, she implored
her parents and brothers and sisters, no other persons
then being present—
. "For God and Jesus Christ's sake, to use aU possib\e
diligence, to be preserved from the abodes, that had
been shown to her. Dear Parents and Brothers and Sis
ters! oliw exclaimed —if tttctj drop ot Tfty blood should
change into a thousand tongues, it would be impossible
for me, to paint sufficiently the torments of those so
damned to Eternity, all Eternity. Leave these words,
although they are all recorded in the word of God, aot
undisclosed to the world and be not silent!"
After promising this, she said—"now my Guide re
turns with me,"—
During this her return, it was observed, that she again
clung to herGuide with a grasp of iron. When he had left
her, She slept again for about a quarter of an hour and a
half. When she awoke, she said —
"0 how fatigued 1 am! I feel as if I had travelled
over the whole world, and again do not know the least,
what to say !"
17
The first Journey into the Moon.
On the 2nd of November at half past one o'clock she
performed the first journey into the Moon, as already
predicted by her on the 26th October, as upon the day
when she was conducted to the first abode of the Unhap
py. Her Guide having arrived and the journey com
menced, she said without being solicited —
"The Moon is the nearest body to our Earth, in four
minutes I shall perform the journey thither."
Immediately a watch, showing the seconds, was laid
upon the table, the moment the four minutes, up to the
second, had elapsed, she commenced by speaking the
following words —
"Now I have arrived here."
Soon after she was asked by her brother, how the
Moon did look in comparison witK. our Earth, when she
replied —
"She much resembles our Earth, only the Atmosphere
here is much brighter, the Climate finer and milder, here
are mountains, valleys, rivers, lakesr trees, forests, beauti
ful gardens, towns and many buildings, some standing by
themselves and others near each other."
After this, enquiry was made concerning the inhabi
tants, to which she replied —
"The Moon contains the- 1'owest Stage of felicity;
those who after death are not immediately fit for a higher
state of felicity, come here, as well as those, that are
released from the first degree of the Unhappy. 1 shall
perform three additional Journeys to the Moon, what I
cannot indicate at present, 1 shall state during the others.
Although the Moon is nearly forty times smaller than, the
Earth' we inhabit — it is far from being possible, that I
should be able to wander over the whole' of it, as I never
dare detain myself longer than thirty minutes. I am
only led to principal places. Now I am conducted by
my Guide into a considerable and large, very large
building, in which a very large Hall is shown to me,
where I meet with none but grown persons, of different
ages, males and females seated promiscuously in long
rows near each other. I know here several person*
I8
(whom she also mentioned by name, but who cannot be
enumerated here) of both sexes-"
Then she was asked concerning the occupation of
these inhabitants of the Moon, when she replied—
"This place is for all a place of education, where they
have their instructors, worship God, sing, pray and learn,
in order to become qualified for a higher state of felicity*
This is their legitimate employment, but as soon as they
attain a higher felicity* they are removed thither. I can
not leave it unnoticed, that tbey perform delightful music
amongst themselves, and what I am particularly pleased
with, is the great harmony and love, which they bear to
wards each other; hatred, envy, quarrelling do not find
place here ; how happy they are, I cannot tell you. I
would deem myself the happiest being, if I dare always
remain. here. On our Earth the richest and most honored
are by far less happythan the lowest of these inhabitants
of the Moon."
"0 how strange it is, that if I want to" touch one, it
seems precisely, as if I did reach. at a shadow. And yet
all can Love God, sing and pray. Sleep overcomes none
any more, night is here no longer, and of eating and
drinking, they also stand in no need. It is also some
what singular, that the deceased, the happy, as well at
the unhappy, know each other, and every cue knows di
rectly, what and who, each have been in this world. This
you may all take as a lesson, the deceased recollect in
Eternity, where they do no longer die, every thing more
vividly "and perfectly, a" they have done in this world,
where we are, than tbey did in this life. Nay, every sin,
even those whom they were unconscious of, becomes ma
nifest to fhem heret and not only those, but every thought,
good or ill,. are plainly and clearly perceived by every
one.
Full of zeal, she continued:
"My Guide informs me, that now commences our rtr
turn -journey, but tellyour t'ellou -inhabitants of the earth ;
that if during their life time, they attain a lively knowledge
of their sins and a state of repentance, they will gain im
mensely, as the progress is here, but by very slow steps.'
. Hereupon she was asked; When she would perioral
19
the 'second journey to the Moon? To which she re
plied —
"To-morrow evening after three o'clock, I shall fall
asleep, at which time, however, my guide will not appear,
I shall only perceive places of light. Not before Sunday
the 4th of November, in the afternoon, between one and
two o'clock, shall I perform my second journey into the
Moon, but only during my last journey into the Moon,
shall I be permitted thence to look down upon our
Earth."
"Now my guide has left me, and this journey is accom
plished,"
Only ten minutes after, she regained her consciousness;
but did not remember the least, that had occurred to her,
and only said—
Leave me rest, my body is exhausted, but in my soul I
leel a peculiar "hilarity."
An hour after she left her bed, and became quite
serene.
Precisely according to her prediction, she fell asleep
the following evening, at three o'clock, she uttered no
sound, awoke in half an hour, left her bed in a quar
ter of an hour after, and again became active.
Until this period, all that had happened to this Som
nambulist, remained a family-secret, because we parents
had not the least conception of a state of Somnambulism.
They now consulted each other, and it was resolved, to
make other persons, particularly physicians, acquainted
therewith. No sooner was this done, than the matter be
came so public, that curiosity and a thirst of knowledge
induced people to come in multitudes, which, to be sure,
ought to have been avoided.
*«ieiw
Second Journey into the Moon.
The 4th November, precisely at half-past one o'clock,
she fell into a profound sleep.
Here it is particularly to be remarked, that during her
first journey to the Moon, as well as the present, and in
20
all her journeys to the Stars, she respectively assumed,
each lime, another attitude or different features, which
was more than plainly observed by Iriend and foe, as well
as every unprejudiced individual, for every feature dis
played honesty, love and serenity, the color of her cheek
was brilliant, and as red as a rose.
Her guide having made his appearance to her, she be
came all love and friendliness. A few minutes after, her
brother asked her, whether she had arrived in the Moon ?
she answered —
"No, it wants yet three-minutes, before I shall arrive
there, and at the same time gave him a rebuke for his
, premature questioning,
She then remained four minutes quite silent, and then
began to speak voluntarily, as follows —
"I am not only in. the Moon, but my guide has con
ducted me into a City; on our earth, none can compare to
it in beauty, the buildings are both large and handsome,
the streets, however, not very wide, but the pavements
comfortable and good, it appears to me as if I was walk
ing on velvet. 'The walks, however, are not covered
with velvet, but only with the finest sand; but of my
footsteps, I see no traces.'"
She was asked, whether she could tell the name of this
City, to which she replied —
"When 'I entered the Gate. I saw it written above, I
will now ask my Guide, he will be able to remind me of
it!"
It was clearly observed, that this was done, and soon
after she said —
"The name is Gethsamene, my guide perambulates it
with such quick steps, that [ can hardly keep up with
him.
Inhabitants, she spoke of none, inadvertently she was
not questioned concerning them, and after a short while
she continued —
"Now a very long and large building is shown to me,,
into which I am led>" —Altera short pause, she said:
"Now I enter, the entry therein is but the width of a
board, it is enormously long, and quite light; now I en
ter into a large aid long hall, here the departed set pro-
21
miscuously near each other, ia long and innumerable
rows, that love and harmony, which I found with the
first, have also here their home, and it almost pleases me
better here than with the first,"
"But I must ask my guide, why it is here so quiet, it
appears to rae, as if all were to hear, attentive exhibiting
great 'reverence."—Soon after she said: "My guide
tells me, turnaround and look, whether you do not sec
two teachers standing here? At this present moment
they receive instruction; for this reason, they sit here w ith
attention. Eh! she continued, the very exterior, so se
rious and affable, as well as clothing quite different, must
inspire each learner with greater respect. However
beautifully as the teachers are dressed, the habiliments of
my guide are still more brilliant. Instruction i* deferred
during our passage; teachers and pupils, have for my
guide, a great regard. It appears tome, that visits of this
kmd are very scarce and I, as an inhabitant of the earth,
walk about here exactly with the same kind of a dress,
as I have on, on my bed; I must tell you, my soul
abides with me; only my spirit wanders; I did never
know before, that besides the soul, there is also a spirit,
that dwell9 in us; and only this is capable to undertake
She was then asKerr:' now m*. '.M ,
did look, and how they were dressed? To which she re
plied:
"As it respects those, whom I knew on our Earth, 1
perceive it quite plainly, that their forms are much
younger, but notwithstanding easily cognisable, their
dresses are white, but they bear otherwise no distinc
tions, their heads, too, are not crowned; the clothes of
the teachers are glistening-white, around their loins they
wear a rose-*olored scarf; I am unable to tell you, how
well these garments become them." So saying, she ex
claimed: " Tell Mrs , who is so much concern
ed about the happiness of her husband, to quiet her appre
hensions, he is amongst the happy, 1 have found him here,
amongst my other acquaintances; he would not change
the contentment, that he already here enjoys, for all the
world, althongh it contists in but the lowest state of fe
22
licify, being onlv formed here for a much higher; for in
regard to the higher felicities they are approachable
step by step. Those, who at their decease are immediate
ly qualified for the enjoyment of greater felicity, are
amongst the Adults and old people, taken altogether,
they are but very few; for those, that in our world-of sin,
grow up so far, follow rigorously the commandments of
God and Jesus Christ, and, although they are in this
world, their minds are not of this world, they say with
Paul: "Our conversation is in Heaven!" My guide
fells me, their sensations are of such a nature, that they
feel happy, in this world already. —O dear Guide! — so
she entreated him—use all your influence, that I, and all
that belong to me,—may also attain such a degree of per
fection — for oh! how much 1- desire so great a blessing
for each of themi
After this discourse, apparently in communion with
herself, she remained silent for some minutes, but every
by-stander perceived it plainly by the motion of her lips
and tongue, that she again was conversing with her
Guide, Soon alter she recommenced speaking, thus :
I have made enquiry with my Guide concerning ray
two brothers, F F.".... born in the vear 1808. and
Jii—i.-l-l. J •
ii —j mm il l i, iinii I l*i writ fl'i
an infant of fourteen days in the year 1820, I should
fain wish to see them also, and he told me : "Perhaps
you actually see one of them." Whereupon 1 answered :
In the empire of the Happy we are all brothers and sis
ters, 1 well know : who are you then, and who were you
on our Earth ?—To which my Guide replied : "The-
mother, who carried you under her bosom and gave you
birth has also borne me, 1 am your brother Frederick,
and by divine command was appointed yspr Guide. I
see my parents, brothees and sisters and all the others
that are present, most perfectly, and know also each ot
them, but their power of vision does by no means extend
so far, as that they should also be able to see' me ; for
they are flesh, but I am Soul and Spirit. Tell them,
that 1 dwell in the Sun, where 1 am appointed a teacher,
to instruct those children, who, if yet alive, would b?
between 8 and 9 years old."
23
When she had finished this speech, she burst into a
flood of tears with joy at having a brother raised to so
high a state ol felicity. She then was asked about his
dress and form, which she described as follows :
"His face is more brilliant than the Sun, his eye full
of fire and yet replete with love, his head is adorned
with a crown of jewels, his garment is of more than a
shining whiteness, and, as- it were, fastened round the
loins by a red scarf; its redness I am at a loss to com
pare, and I am unable correctly to express the beauty of
this color with words. My Guide she continued
—is now returning, and conducts me back to
our terrestrial Globe ; he told me that during our next
(and third) journey he would shew me some livers, that
are in the iWoon ; this will take place the 6th of this
Month, at one o'clock in the afternoon. As soon as my
jounrneys to the Moon will be finished, I shall be taken
to a Star."
Thus the discourse ended ; a few minutes after, she
re-opened her right hand, by which she always held fast
her Guide, as a signal that he had departed : not until
ten miuirtes more. had expired she awoke with pleasant
ness, and asked the by-standers —
"How long this time her sleep had lasted, and what
meanwhile she had spoken, as in her state of waking she
was entirely ignorant, what had occurred to her."
Every thing being related to her, she was greatly as
tonished, and could hardly believe, that she had said any
thing of the kind, because she was no longer conscious of
the least of all that had happened.
Third journey into the Moon.
Each time that she fell aleep, she became previously
quite silent. So it also happened on the 6th November
in the afternoon before one o'clock. The clock had no
sooner struck the said hour, than she was already asleep.
After receiving her Guide, she said—
"In four minutes I shall be in the Moon."
24
This proved correct to a second, as after the expira
tion of that time she announced her arrival there, with
the words — ,
''Soon shall I be led into a City, called Btthuealcin.''''
Alter a short pause she resumed—
"This City pleases me still somewhat better, than the
former, although that is also quite handsome ; the streets
in it are again as narrow, as in the former, but the walk
ing on the pavements as pleasant.
After passing through the same, she continued :
"I am also this time conducted into a large building',
without the City, which yields in no respect to the other.
The Entry thereiii resembles that of the former in everjr
respect ; now I enter the Hall, which is somewhat wider
than the former ; here the number of the deceased is
greater, and I also meet with some, that I knew on our
Earth, Their garments are like those, which I have
already described. They have likewise their teachers,
and the purest Love, Harmony and Frankness reign
amongst them. The respect shown to my Guide is as
great, as I stated it to be, during both my first journeys ;
but I only excite surprise, for every one knows, that my
soul still remains in my mortal tenement."
"Now I come to a place, around which water, as cical
as crystal, is flowing in a circular ring, it appears to
stand still, which however is not the case. On the place,
or the Island, enclosed by the water, that flows around
it, stands a large and long building, which is higher than
the one into which I have already been conducted; over
the river leads a beautiful bridge."
Arrived at the building, she said :
"I am also conducted into it ; but here the Hall if
not below; as in the former, but I have to ascend a flight
of steps. —I now enter a large Hall, in which again there
are none present, but such, as died on our Earth ; here
too Harmony and Love reign throughout ; only, says my
Guide, those he showed me before, are a little in advance
of these ; they have also their teachers."
Soon after she said — .. . .
"Now I am conducted back."
During her return-journey she was asked : when her
25
curth journey to tne Moon would take place ? To which
she answered :
"Nexi Thursday, the 8th November, at half past one
,o'clock in the afternoon."
She then accosted her brother, who kept up the dis
course with her, with the following words —
A...., as soot> as my Guide has quit me, make ten
strokes from the pit of my heart to the crown of my head
backwards, when I shall awaken sooner and easier."
This was punctually followed, for ten minutes after
she fully regained her consciousness. Although other
wise lively, she complained of languor, but had not the
least recollection of all she had said.
Fourth journey into the Moon.
November 8th l832 several learned and other persons
were present. She spoke to them, but when the hour of
her sleep approached, she said —
"Now I must lay myself down."
Arid having done so, she fell asleep as usual. Her
Guide having joined her. she was^sked : where she wasf
to which :-he answered— .
"Still here, but row my journey begins and in four
minutes I shall be in the Moon."
At this all those that were present, took out their
watches, and when three minutes had elapsed, she was
asked, whether she had completed her journey ? she re
plied —
"Not yet, but it does not quite want a mimite."
The four minutes having expired to a second, she said
without being asked :
"Now I am here, —after a short pause she continued —
this day I am led by my Guide up to a mountain. —Ar
rived at the foot thereof, she said : in three minutes I
shall have ascended it with my Guide."
This time also the watches were referred to, and the
time stated having elapsed to a second, she exclaimed
"Now 1 have gained the top."
3
26
She was then asked its form, height and magnitude,
when she replied—
"It
is.
round, and around
it
stands trees,on t^e top there
is also
a
beautiful plain with some trees, but which are
not as large, as those around the mountain
;
the air upon
it
is
extremely agreeable,
1
should like to be permitted to
remain here. The
J
mountain much resembles the
J.impurg of Weilheim, but
it
lacks its great circumference
and height. From the top of
it
I
see
a
great many other
mountains, forests, part of which are small, and others
large, rivulets. Towns, Villages, buildings, some of which
ftand by themselves and others near each other. The
environs are quite pleasant
;
the mountain
is
called
Sinuo — Now lam returning."
Immediately the question was put
:
what length of
time do you need to reach the Valley
?
"Only two minutes" — she answered
;
and this also
agreed to
a
second.
"Now she said,
I
am again conducted
by
my Guide
into the Mall, wherein
1
was the day before yesterday
on the firm land, my Guide tells me that he has there to
show uif several things yet." Arrived there, she contin
ued
:
'.hci
e
I
observe several teachers, as with the former
;
at present they are singing, and
I
never on Karth heard
such
a
melody, nor can anv be compared thereto, other
iv.usic however
I
do not hear just now. That Union,
Love and Harmony, which have here their home-stead,
I
am unable sufficiently to give you
a
description of.—
I
am not again conducted through the City, through which
I
was led during my third journey
;
but
I
am conduc
ted to
a
spot, whence
I
can look down upon the Earth."
She was asked how large the Earth appeared to her?
''Considerably larger than
a
large nine-pin ball. The
Earth
is
a
dark body and looks blackish from here, and
- is, as
I
have once already stated, probably forty times
as large as the Moon.
I
would not have known, that
this round Ball, which
I
see,
is
the Earth,
if
niy Guide
l
ad not informed me thereof, with the words
:
Upon this
black spot YOU live."
At the desire of those present i>he was repeatedly
asked, what the Temperature was in the Moon, when she
said —
"I have already told you during each journey, that I
find it mild. I well remember that the Learned state the
Moon to be a cold body, but she is positively not so ; the
person that travels through a country, must surely know it
bitter, than one that only judges at random, and how could
it well dilfer from my statement, being, as it is a place of
felicity 1— My Guide tells me — that we inhabitants of the
Earth are always ready to give our opinions, when one of
our acquaintances, or a person we know, dies ; but these
are generally quite erroneous, for God alone is the tho
rough-searching knower of hearts; here none are judged
according to their exterior, but most accurately according
to their hearts. Therefore I beseech every one as much
as L can entreat—Judge not! for let every one take care
of himself, that he may save his soul and make no com-
parrisou with others, for every one has enough to do
with himself.
Having finished this speech, she signified :
''That now her return was commencing;, and thai
she would be back in four minutes, and' that in the
same manner in which her Guide had led her upwards,
he was also now leading her dow nwards to the Earth."
During her return she was asked: when she
again would undertake a journey? to which she re
plied —
"Next Saturday precisely at one o'clock."
Directly after her Guide left her and soon after she
said —
"A now waken me in the mannncr I told you."
Not long after she awoke with chearfulness, but alsu
quite ignorant of what had happened to her.
First Journey into Mercury.
As soon as the clock struck one the 10th November
1832 in the afternoon she again fell asleep. Each time
a lew minutes elapsed, before her Guide joined her , and
23
as soon, as according to the symptoms he seemed to hare
presented himself to her, she was asked —what length
of time she would need, to arrive at the place mentioned f
she said—
"Seven minutes."
which again proved correct to a second, wherupon she
'aid— '
"This too resembles a world ; I am led by my Guide,
into a City, but which is much handsomer, than those Ci
ties, which I have seen in the Moon.
When asked the name of this City, she said —
"Isaisalem, there I am led into a most beautiful Edifice
and. into a great Hall."
After having entered
it,
she became exceedingly over
joyed, and burst out into these words
:
"I again see here, as my Guide tells me, no others
hut those, that had lived 0T1 the Earth; but they are all
clothed in most beautiful white garments, and they have
all red ribbands around their loins; they are happier, in
a considerable degree, than those that are
in
the Moon,
although they also have their teachers. The Music,
which
I
du hear,
I
am unable to praise according to
its euphony
;
musicians of the world can in no manner
be compared with those in Heaven,"
Then she was asked, whether she^new anybody there!
which she answered with "No."
Thus contentedly reposing, several questions were
put to her at the instance of others, but which she an-
dignation appeared on her features, at being disturbed in
her delight
;
at length, she spoke out
:
"My Guide tells me, every thing has its time
;
tell
our brother, not to molest you nor me any more with
such questions, —
I
am now disturbed, and my Guide too
does no longer appear as friendly as he was at first;
what
I
have neglected to-day,
I
will endeavor to retrieve,
during my three journeys into Mercury. Afterwards
I
shall make
a
journey through Venus."
The question was then put: whether her Guide would
not also state remedies to her for sick and afflicted per-
»ons
B
swered with
20
"Not yet, for this I have still to travel to other pla
nets."
She was then asked : by what means she could see ,
her eyes being so firmly closed ? when she gave the fol
lowing answer :
"I see by means of the stomach."
Hereupon a watch was laid upon her stomach, and she
was asked whether she could state the hour of the real
time of the day ? when she said :
"Not just now, not until 1 travel through Venus.—
During the most complete stale of Somnambulism every
object cannot be minded and judged. I regret it but
too sensibly, that there are so very few physicians, that
truly understand such a case and know how to treat it.''
Now the question was addressed to her : How it hap
pened, that she travelled to Mercury sooner than to
Venus, the latter being so much nearer to the Earth
than the former ? whereupon she said :
"This question is not deserving of an answer for the
present; 1 do not depend on myself but on my Guide,
perhaps I may hereafter be permitted to answer this
learned and worldly question."
After this she was asked, when she would perform
her second journey into Mercury ? when she said —
"To morrow noon at one o'clock."
All these latter questions were put to her during her
journey hither from Mercury, and answered by her
Soon after she opened her right hand, as a signal, that
her Guide had quit her, and immediately after her bro
ther wakened her. Returning to a state of wakefulness,
she said immediately :
"That she did not at this time feel quite so well, as
formerly, but could not account for it."
Learned men ascribed this to the interruptions, that
had occurred ;—she too remained this time longer in her
recumbent attitude, took very little nourishment and
soon after returned to bed.
*3
30
Second Journey into Mercury.
The ll th November she fell asleep precisely at the*
lime she had predicted. The number of attending per
sons, learned and unlearned was very considerable,—
When she had been asleep six minutes, her Guide ar
rived with her, and after a short pause she said —
"Now I commence my second journey to Mercury."
Being questioned — what length of time this journey
would require ? she said—
"In Seven minutes I shall be on the spot."
When three and a half minutes had elapsed, she said
of her own accord :
.'Now it is half accomplished."
"Now I am on the spot ; just now I arrive at the Gate
of the City, into which I am to be conducted to day; but i
do not pass immediately through the Gate, the entrance
resembles, a rampart, and glitters like gold; but my
Guide says, that it is not made of gold ; but that this
kind of stones resembles it. I cannot sufficiently de
pict the splendor and beauty of this City, which 1 now
pass through ; the street is paved with large, white
Hakes, the whitest marble is not as white, and not near
so bright.
She was asked the name of this City, when she re
plied :
"It is called Jeremia ; the town is pretty; but the
streets are by no means wide, and the buildings on both
sides are builulike. My Guide tells me: Those, that dwell
on the south side are a little in advance of those, that live
on the west-side ; that each has to pass through all the
buildings periodically, until they are removed to a higher
state of felicity. — Now those blessed beings are also
shewn to me, to whom, on their departure from the
Earth, habitations are assigned here, and those again is a
separate building. My Guide tells me, that these are .
the lecture-rooms, where they often have to meet; tasks
are also given to them, which they have to learn by them
selves, but these are not onerous, but a real pleasure t«
them." -
|
"Now I am introduced !"
31
she exclaimed with gaiety, and atter a short pause con
tinued —
"I perceive here several, whom I knew on our Earth,
ah! now the Music begins; — after a liltle pause she
said —now it is accompanied by singing, the melodies and
voices, which are heard here, cannot possibly be com
pared with those on Earth ; they are entirely different,
I know of no words. to give you the least idea thereof,
or but one tune of the melodies."
The Harmony and mutual Love, which exist here,
I cannot sufficiently express, for here prevails no respect
of person ; here the person, who was the most respected
and wealthy in the world, is not more thought of, than he,
who was not minded at all in the world ; according to
the deeds done in the body, he is here, in this life ad
judged."
She burst into tears of joy, but began soon to speak
again in the following; words —
''I am called upon by my Guide, to tell all of yon,
that. are here present, the following;— During my last jour
ney, which I made to : — I must call them, what they are)
the Damned, I heard the following expressions amongst
them, which I then durst not tell, because I had not yet
travelled to any abode of bliss—here children curse their
parents, and parents their children ;-l heard some of them.
say—I curse the second, when I was conceived, and the
hour in which I was born ; why did I not as a monster
come into this world, and why, like the tenderest suckling
infant was I not by violence deprived of life, as unlit for
the Earth, which I inhabited and on it committed all
sorts of crime ? Why not a day-laborer or a cripple ? Ah !
exclaimed another one, equally damned, to him —Exist
such thoughts also here ! Birth, Descent and Wealth have
not damned us, but the nut keeping, dis-obeying and dis
believing the commandments of God!"
"Here no suicides happen any more, to commit them
would be impossible ; for all men, from Adam, have the
breath of God in them, and it is indissoluble. My Guide
tells me, that God himself could dissolve
it,
as little, as
renders that undone, which has happened; therefore says
32
the revealed word of God: "Their worm does not die,
and their fire will not be quenched."
After a short pause she exclaimed —
My Guide tells me—sins of Sodom, Fornication, (be
fore this I did not even know what actually was meant in
the essential sense by Fornication,) the cause of most in
fanticides, Adultery will be punished eternally, in the
third degree of damnation, if man in his life-time does not
attain a lively sense of his olfences, and obtains a full
pardon for the same ; these sins equiponderate with the
crimes of Murder and Witchcraft. —I did not know, what
Paul meant by the words : "Secret sins; "My Guide
tells me : These happen during fornication and but too
frequently in regular marriages, whereby the begetting of
children is wickedly suppressed and frustrated. I do
not understand the essential sense of the meaning, ray
Guide wishes to convey by this, but that which I have
said here, do not keep it a secret. My Guide tells me;
not the tenth part of the trespasses transpires, which
are committed in your world of Sin, or are at least but
.slightly punished ; the punishments for a sin of tVtis kind
in the world, if man dues not become converted with all his
heart, meet positively with no abatement in the other
world."
She now became a little quiet and then resumed —
"My Guide tells me ; you are surprised at the felicity,
which exists here, how greatly will you be astonished,
when you perform your journeys into the sun."
She now proposed that —
"If any one wished to enquire after deceased parents,
consorts, children, &c. it should be done through her
brother ; if she remained silent, and gave no answer, it
would be a sign, that her Guide had also remained silent,
but if she answered, the person would be at the place
mentioned by her; because her Guide knew it to be a
fact."
Those who doubted, kept silence : those, that enter
tained a sure hope, caused questions to be put ; she then
would say to the One—
"He—she—is in the Sun—another in Uranus, in. Vt-
nus, &c."
33
She then continued —
"My Guide tells me —During my journeys to the Sun
1 shall obtain an additional Guide, as 1 otherwise would
not be able to endure the splendor, and he is my Cousin-
Gesman and yours, named George Goelz."
She then burst again into an extacy of joy, after which
she was asked the employment ol the blessed spirits, and
she answered —
"They do have to learn, I count here eight teachers,
for learning never ceases throughout the eternal eterni
ties, (as my Guide expresses himself,) the use of which
words by him I do not comprehend. He tells me—how
many thmgs happen in your world of sin, about which
the question is asked millions of times — Why does God
act so and not otherwise ? We cannot reconcile it with
a divine wisdom and the government of God. Alas! he
continues, it constitutes in the other world a protracted
occupation of the Unhappy as well as the Blessed, until
they can unriddle that, which appears to them mysteri
ous in your world — that world, in which you now arc-
Then are they astonished at the wisdom of God, and
suhamed of their follies ;— man has no idea, how short
sighted he is "
"My Guide tells me—Many, nay an innumerable mul
titude, who appear very learned in your world of sin and
distinguish themselves, arrive here, the most of them, as
the greatest fools ; they exclaim one to the other — We
fools have missed the right aim !"
'•Let no one be sparing of, and put off his repentance
to his deathbed, for he, that does, is truly deceived! Do
you believe then, that God, the Redeemer of the world
and the Holy spirit are so soon reconciled ? What I tell
you, I say to every one, infinitely much is required to-
words Salvation j previous repentance must prepare us
for death, but not death lead us to repentance , we must
become dead to sin, herein this temporary and transient
world, if we will not perish eternally ; to gain Salvation,
is truly no trifle. Man must be born anew, and regenera
ted in regard to his inner value; but this requires time,
earnest and trouble, and inexpressible vigilance."
^Another remark I am enjoined by my Guide tq add—
34
IF for instance a person has been on the road to repen
tance, and conversion, but has withdrawn his hand Iron*
the plough and relapses into his former vicious course—it
will bv no means avail him, for in order to be saved, con
stant vigilance and faithfulness are required, and there
ought to be no intermission. Refer to the word of God,
and examine, whether it does not say the same!''
This she exclaimed with enthusiasm, and then said —
"My Guide has this time made a long star, but now
my return commences." •
Meanwhile she was asked, when she would undertake
her third Journey into Mercury ? To which she re
plied—
The 15th of this month at 1 o'clock in the afternoon,
for I require at this time a special relaxation.
As soon as her Guide had taken leave, she said —
"Brother, waken me now, but make two strokes more
than formerly, for I shall awake later this time than £
have done heretofore."
Twenty five minutes elapsed, before she awoke. —
When she awoke, it was with great hilarity, but she com
plained of weakness, and then remained two hours Ion-,
ger in bed.
Third Journey into Mercury.
On the 13th November the Somnambulist fell into a
lethargv, as usual, at the precise time she had predicted.
The number of those, who desired to see and hear her,
was so great, that hardly the third part of them could be
admitted, as the room, in which the Somnam
bulist had laid herself down, would not have con
tained them. Hardly half a minute had elapsed, after
she had went to bed before all the persons present, than
she already reposed in the profoundest slumber.
'
Five
minutes after she stretched out her right hand and re
ceived her Guide ; soon after she said :
"Now I commence my third Journey and in seven
minutes I shall also perform it again,"
35
Which proved true to a second. Then she said :
"I am again conducted into a City, called Meaopotha-
mia, here also such blessed spirits, as dwelled on the
Earth, have for the present their home, — It is always to
be taken for granted, that the purest Love and Harmo-
ney dwell with all the blessed, here nothing can be
tolerated for a moment, than would in the least disturb
their felicity. — Whilst I approach the building and hall,
.where I find the blessed at their meeting, I hear such a
remarkably sweet music and melody, that if all the Mu
sicians of Europe, as well as all its delightful Singers,
could be heard in Concert, their music and singing could
>not in the least be compared with what I hear in this
place. You would turn quite beside yourselves, could
you listen to this music. —Mortal eyes would not be able
to behold the beauty of the Hall, the gracefulness of the
blessed Spirits, especially that of the teachers, who wear
crowns on their heads, by which they are distinguished
from the rest, nor mortal ears to hear the sound of the
music ; if they were led on the .Earth into the most mag
nificent Castles, Palaces and Edifices it would be intoler
able and quite onerous to them. — If I were not here ac
cording to the spirit, and could not see by means of the
Stomach, and
if,
when
I
awake, were conscious of what
is shown to me here,
I
should be quite unfit for Earth,
and
a
real trouble and burthen to all persons, with whom
I
would have to keep up an intercourse,"
The City, through which
I
pass,
I
have not described
to you yet
;
it
much resembles the former,
I
don't know
whether
I
judge correctly or not, but every one appears
to me handsomer than the preceding, only this
I
have to
remark, what
I
have mentioned so often, that the street*
within the City are not very wide, but the Gates are verj
wide and broad.
At the instance of
a
Theologian the question was ad
dressed to her, of and from what class of people the
blessed inhabitants do consist
?
—
a
short pause ensued,
and
it
was more than plainly observed, that she was con
sulting her Guide
;
whereupon she said —
<'Have
I
not every time said, that inhabitants from
the Earth or World are here, by whom
I
meant those of
36
all nations and sects of religion. Are you then nnne>
quainted with that passage or tenth Chapter of the Acta,
wherein it was shewn to the Apostle Peter in a vision—=
"that God pavs no respect to persons,but in every nation
he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted
of him," this is the state of things in blessed Eternity. He>
who worships flatterers and hvpocrites as Saints
is struck out in the list of God — whereas he, to
whom this testimony is not (riven, '3 conducted
into felicity. —In regard to nothing does mankind deceive
themselves, mote than in their judgments respecting
such as are deceased. My Guide just now tells me ; that
in Eternity justice and impartiality prevail to such a de
gree, that the keenest human understanding would be
unable to comprehend it ; that no departed soul receives
to the breadth of a hair, either too much or too little, be
it either punishment or reward, but both are balanced
most exactly. Nevertheless a great distinction is to be
made those, that had the revealed word of God
and amongst those, that-have not had it ; the latter arc
judged according to the scale, by which they have obey
ed the voice of conscience and the law, that was written
in their heart ; that the Eternal Wisdom knows how to
equalize every thing so well, that we shall be more than
surprized, not only here, but also in the Moon. I
have met amongst the blessed spirits such as were Jew*
and Heathens, and belonged to all nations and reli
gions.
"
Having finished this speech, she said voluntarily :
"This day questions may also again be put to me con
cerning deceased persons, my Guide tells me : that he
will remain longer with me."
Thus called upon, a much afflicted mother of litis place
eame forth, who desired information relative to her son,
named G.... S — He had learnt the mercantile busi
ness with G.. . M .. K.... S. in St..,.., and had went
on a journey of business by order of his emplovers the
28th of October 1819 to VV , in the "OberamC
Geisslingen. Between H and E he lost his
life j not until some days had elapsed his body was found
near O in the Neckar, and taken out still quite r«
37
cognizable ; he was twenty years ot age. Much was
said concerning this unfortunate accident ; some even
suspected, that he had thrown himself into the river
Neckar ; but as he could not be charged with the least
misdemeanor by his employers, being beloved and
esteemed by them, nothing else was to be supposed,
than that he had been violently murdered by some high
wayman, in order to gain possession of the mule which
he had ridden, laden with some hundreds of florins in
cash.
Very little was known to the Somnambulist of the
story here related, this unfortunate accident having
occurred so long since as fourteen years. Being
asked. what had happened to him, and where now his
soul was, she replied as follows :
"Whoever has considered S. as a suicide, has
done him wrong in the highest degree, as he was not such,
but he was violently massacred. First he was flung
from his beast to the ground; and then received some
severe cuts, which caused him to faint; then he was
thrown into the Neckar, whence he could no longer
save himself, owing to what before had happened. He
that committed the murder on him, entirely missed his
aim, he had believed, that the creature would stay with
its rider, but it escaped and the murderer could not over
take it, because it hastened in full gallop to St and
brought to the ligitimate owners the full amount of the
money — The murderer is still in this world, but on ac
count of his bad conscience enjoys no rest, neither day
nor night'. — 'The unfortunate youth hnwever dwells
in the City of Mesopothamia ; just now he is pointed out '
to me by my Guide, he plays on a harp*)and is very happy.
His parents are bv all means to compose themselves, as
he certainly would not return, if the whole world was
bestowed upon him-"
Of this story the Somnambulist had hardly known any
thing, and as it was related by her, so the events had
occurred according to all the proofs extant ; all the per-
*) On this instrument he, in his life-time also liked
much to play!
38
*ons present were astonished at this narration in so pro
found a slumber, particularly as the Somnambulist had
also never known the joulh to whom the misfortune had
happened,
Hereupon a widow caused enquiry to be made con*
cerning her husband, deceased several years ago; after a
little while she said —
"He has not long since been removed from the first
degree of the unhappy to the Moon."
Immediately after a sister caused enquiry to be made,
concerning her brother, who had been killed during the
night, in a field, near a flock of sheep, no fact having
been elicited by all the investigations that had been in
stituted in relation thereto. After a little while she
said —
"He will be eternally happy, his Soul is in the Sun,
he came over as a bachelor and was a noble youth—I
have never learned any thing concerning this affair. But
further forbear to ask me ; the murdered individual
is in a place of perfect felicity, and her murderer^wiW yet
come to the place, where he will receive what his deed*
•deserve."
To this she added—
-"All those, who come into Eternity from this world,
in which they suffered deat/i by violence or assassination,
bear a mark, they are however for that reason not particu
larly more blessed than those, that dwell with them in
the same Region of Felicity."
When this was past, enquiry was made concerning an
unmarried female of this place*) who had died in the
58th year of her life, alter passing through many inward
and external sufferings, but who had led s,uch an exampla-
«, ry, pious course of life, that it could be said of her with
full force of trhth, that she had never fell off Jrom
her baptismal state of grace j it was desired to
known, where she resided. After a consultation she
said: —
*) This was Dorothea Neufer, a daughter of the '.right
eous and pious preceptor Weitfer of this place, who died
50 long since as the year 1806.
39
"I have not known licr in this world, but my guide
told me —that she had already been an Elect of God i:i
this world and had from her tendcrest childhood suffer
ed herself to be formed and educated lor that purpose
she has her dwelling in the Sun, and enjoys a high, verj
high degree of felicity, she was at 0 ice removed fro.u
our eartli into the Sun, where she received more than
ample amends for her afflictions on our earth. All the
pomp and enjoyments of the kings on earth are but like
a dark shadow in comparison with the pleasures she
Then she exclaimed with solemnity —
"Oh! such, such we should all become"
Revealing so many remarkable things of the other
world, and speaking of still more important journeys —
she was asked at the instance of a Clergyman ; whether
she would not also attain to a contemplation of God ?
When soon after she replied —
" This is not granted to me , my guide tells me ; the
highest gratification which will be permitted and granted
to me, is : that I will be allowed to cast a glance at the
New Jerusalem, where I shall be permitted to see but a
part of tiiose attendants who wait on God ; that no Som
nambulist had ever been conducted so far.— My guide
tells me, that m the blessed eternities their are millions
of blessed Spirits, who have never yet arrived at a con
templation of God, that this requires the^ highest degree
of felicity.''
"So many persons, who die on the earth, say so fre
quently : "my Redeemer calls me," this is incorrect;
those who die happy, are taken away by blessed beings,
who come from the spot to which they are conducted ;
just so the unhappy and damned. When a human be
ing is on the borders of life, and he perceives beautifuP
and clear Forms, it is always a good sign ; but if they
perceive black forms, it is very ominous and lamentable.
There are at this time several individuals present, who have
been impelled to come here, merely from curiosity, and not
a sense of integrity ; I would be able to indicate them by
name, but my guide tells me, to refrain from
it,
that the
responsibility will fall on the incredulous, and the unbe-
40
lief of others, will do me no injury," After finishing
this speech, she recommenced, cordially entreating all
«nd every one of us to become converted with all our
hearts, and produce pious fruits of repentance ; that she
was unable, to stale the least particulars of the peace and
content, which the blessed enjoy.
'; Eh !" she resumed, " mv guide tells me, that he did
direct me during my former journey s to promulgate many
things, which I have not stated minutely enough, and
asks me whether 1 do not call to mind, that he told me :
avarice is so great a sin in the eyes of God; that Paul
has by no m>'ans said too much, when he writes in one of
his own letters: "that it is the root of all evil,"that it
leads to fraud, theft, lying, &c. nay, to suicide and
murder, that where but a deed can be discerned, suscepti.
ble in the least palliation, a 7niser is capable to execute it.
Further says mv guide: Drunkenness is a high road, that
leads mankind by its many bye -ways, into all sorts of
fin and vice, because it bereaves them of their sound rea
son and all reflection. Oh ! may every one strive to
iiv: :zt;;t'y, Icr t»u: *r r.zu> ?aUl
is soonest found.
^
My
guide tells me : that the least sin is great enough, to
briiig mas into a state of u"!~pp;..c«,H, «r he attain not
during life, to a knowledge and pardon of the same,
through Jesus Christ. — Good deeds and a course of righ
teousness, must proceed from the purest love of God and
Jesus Christ, that which remained undone, merely from
self-love, ambitiiTn, and a fear of the operation of the
threatened divine and human laws, has in this world al
ready received its reward. We mortals, says my guide,
must do good, because it is good, and avoid and shun
evil, because it is evil, then will it redound to our salva
tion."
m After finishing this her speech, she turned particular
ly to her brother A., who kept up the conversion with
her, and admonished him, always to endeavor to lead a
righteous and pious course of life, because he, on ac
count of his own connexion with her, would also draw a
special judgment and accountability upon himself.
"Now, she continued, my guide gives me yet another
injunction ; tell my dear parents, that, en account of the
41
situation in which I find myself, they may by no means
indulge me'too much ; but that they may most assuredly
admonish, warn and punish me, if in aught I should com
mit the least offence, by words and deeds, because I,
when awake, do not know what has happaned to me, for I
am, when returned to my usual slate of watchfulness,
like any other person, and commit the same and similai
faults as others, therefore conceal by no means any thing
from me, that I have said :
Immediately after she said —"In one minute my
journey commences," during the same she was asked—
how the Mercury was formed and constituted ? when
she said quite briefly :
"Like the Earth, but every object is infinitely more
ennobled ; during my fourth and last journey thither,
which I shall perform next Thursday, the l5th instant, in
the afternoon at one o'clock, precisely, I shall be per
mitted to look down from it upon the earth."
Her return being accomplished ; and her guide
being departed, she said —"A. now waken me." — Five
minutes after this had been done, she re-awoke with ex
traordinary affability, and smiling, but afterwards again
experienced great debihfy.
It is yet to be remarked, that every time she awoke,
both her hands were as cold as snow, and that afterwards
»he frequently fell unconsciously asleep, but never spoke
a word, and generally awoke of her own accord.
Fourth Journey into Mercury.
The l5th November, at one o'clock in the afternoon,
she tell again into a magnetic sleep as usual, at the time
she had predicted. — She conversed with those, who paid
her a visit and to whom it was known, that she would fall
asleep, the very minute she would lay herself down; at
the tune this happened, she fell likewise asleep directly,
and remained quite still for seven minutes, but as soon at
4»
42
.her guide had approached her, she exhibited the warmest
love and friendliness ; the rejoicing was far greater, than
when two trusty friends unexpectedlv meet each other
again, who have not seen each other for a considerable
length of time. —Immediately she was asked, when she
would begin her journey ? to which she answered :
"Just now, and in seven minutes, as I did before, I
shall have performed it."
This again proved correct to a second ; when she had
arrived, she said —
"I am again conducted into a city which is called Ti-
lia."
Then she was asked, whether it was also built like
those, which she had seen in her former journeys ? when
she said —
"In regard to size it does not yield to the others, it ia
also very beautiful, but it appears to me, as if the former
were handsomer; I cannot understand the reason, why
my guide at first showed me the handsomest."
Saying thisj she smiled and continued —
"My guide says —this also belongs to the matter,' but
adduced nothing else. —This time also I am led to the
Blessed, that have their home, the building is uncom
monly large.
Enquiry was made, of what materials it was con
structed, and what it looked like ? To which she re
plied —
"It is built of stone; but on earth I never saw any
of this kind, they are transparent, and of a clear-white.
In the Hall, the interior corresponds with the exterior,
as it also was the case with those, which heretofore were
shewn to me —This hall is of immense length and
proportionable breadth —the blessed sit in three divisions,
as at a table, and each has three teachers, who, as said
before, distinguish themselves by crowns, more bril
liant garments and scarfs tied around their loins ; and al
though the blessed, that are here, have also a very hand
some appearance, yet the others visibly excel them. A
mortal eye would absolutely be incapable, to look upon
the splendor that exists here, and this, my guide tells me,
is far inferior, to what hereafter will yet be shewn to me|
43
for if that, which I actually perceive, was shewn to a per
son of the Earth but for a few minutes, he would become
quite disqualified for our terrestial world."
Then she was again asked concerning the occupations
of the Blessed : to which she replied in a somewhat se
rious tone :
"This question appears to me superfluous, did I not of
ten say before, that the employment of the blessed con-
sists in nothing, but singing and praying, the worship of
God, His Son and the Holy Ghost, and in learning, this
never ceases to all eternity. They now sing the
hymn : "Lord God, we praise Thee, &c. The teach
ers stand at the head and are Leaders. That I might but
be permitted to stay here! but this is at present refused
me. How delightful the singing and iqusic are, I am
quite unable to describe, but must refer you to my form
er disclosures."
But she herself appeared by her gestures to be quite
transported.
"
After a short pause she continued—
"I have asked my Guide, how it happens, that, when I
walk through the Cities I perceive no inhabitants, nei
ther in the streets, nor in the buildings f To which he
has given me this answer : As long as the children are
atschool, they are not in their dwellings ; the blessed are
at school, in the Halls, where they are instructed, their
lessons and tasks are given to them, partly to be salved
by them, and partly for meditation on the grandeur of
God, which they take with them to their dwellings, fop
the spirit, or the soulof man remains, and constantly is ac
tive; tasks are no trouble to them, but a real delight and
the greatest pleasure ; here exists a spirit of emulation,
productive of no hatred, nor envy, else it would not be
a state of felicity."
She then became quite silent for some minutes and
thereupon resumed . .
"I have asked my guide the state of mind of those, for
instance, who as a married couple, are, the one in a state
of felicity, and the other in that of the unhappy; or when
parents are saved, but either the whole or a part of their
children are amongst the damned ; whether the felicity
of the blessed is not thereby clouded? To this my
0
u
V
guide has answered me : In the blessed eternities all
love of kindred ceases, because the great love of God, .is
well as his justice become too obvious and manifest to
every one that is in a state of felicity, as that it should in
the least be hindered or disturbed thereby. If parents,
children, ancestors and others, whieh loved each other in
this terrestrial world, already find each other all and
every one amongst the blessed, their delight certainly in
creases, but they are for that reason not more felicitious
than those, that miss it. On the other hand the unhap
py are in great distress concerning those they have left
behind, anticipating for them a similar fate j particularly
parents concerning their children, and so throughout the
different gradations, because reproaches made to their pa
rents by children, and others, that had a share in
it,
in
the other world, augment their pains, wretchedness and
misery considerably.
Then she uttered
a
deep groan and said—
"I constantly learn more, and shall, agreeably to the
express injunctions of my guide, never discontinue my
exhortations touching
a
real repentance and reformation
of mind,"
Having finished this speech, she became quite silent
for some minutes and
it
appeared as if she felt exhaust
ed, although the period during which, according to her
statement, her guide would this time stay with her (more
than twenty minutes) had not yet elapsed. On accountof
the remarkableness of the above declarations; the follow
ing questions were put to her at the instance of the most
Reverend Mr. M. E., pastor of this town;
I.)
What
fate did Deacon Brehm, who in the year, 1829 had been
executed at Reutlingcn for infanticide, meet with in eter
nity, to which she answered
:
" He
is
in the moon, there he holds an inferior and
low station as teacher, but he
is
improving and progress
sing; this grace has been conferred on him, because he
arrived in this world at
a
lively knowledge of his sins,
and became well converted. He
is
one of those, who
from time to time have to make
a
journey to, and preach
in the first degree of the unhappy.
'* ' "'
,
45
2) What fate did the poet Goethe, recently deceased,
meet with ?
"He is a teacher in the planet Uranus.
S) Enquiry was made after Henry Jung (called Stil
ling):
" He holds a considerable station as teacher in the
planet Jupiter."
4) W here the great heathen teacher Socrates now
is?
" He is an eminent teacher in the planet Venus, but
he will soon be removed to a higher grade of felicity."
Enquiry was then made, and concerning each sepa
rately, after the fathers of the church : Luther, Melanch-
ton, Jirndt, Spener, JiengeL, and Lavater ; to which she
answered, in regard to each respectively ;
" These are no longer teachers, but they are servants
of God ; there exists a remarkable difference between
teachers and servants of God ; for the servants of God
have to attend the Throne of God ; for although God
,
does not stand in need of the advice and aid of the
most blesseri -spirit; vet the Holiness and Glory of his
Deity rssurree servants to bring orders, and again te
commit the same to such as are less blessed, for execu
tion. My guide too, has to call for orders, but not oa
God himself, but he must apply to the servants, what h»
may show me and how far he may lead me, for in the
empire of felicity reigns the very greatest and best order,
from it there is no deviation by the breadth of a hair."
Alter a short pause she said :!
"I have asked my guide, how it is possible, that the
orders of God can be brought and executed so quickly t
regarding this he has informed me as follows : the bles
sed spirits travel much quicker than lightning, —they ge
far very soon ; in the same manner, blessed spirits are
also able to pay visits to each other, the higher to the
lower, and again the lower to the higher, but to do so, a
permission is always requisite, which is refused to none,
but the one as well as the other must again return to the
place assigned to him."
She became again a little quiet, and another question
.# was put to her, where the Prelate Oettingerh&d his resi
dence ?
4G
.
1
.n-r
'' My Guide says : that he is at present in the
Uranus, playing on a harp."
This declaration excited much attention, especially of
the literati, who, from his writings and other accounts
were acquainted with his conduct in life, because they
knew, that with playing on the harp, he chiefly amused
himself in his hours of relaxation and that it was the most
pleasing musical instrument to him.
Besides this, she was asked concerning several indi
viduals, whose residence she indicated to be in different
heavenly bodies. After replying thereto, she said :
" In the moon, in the Sun, and in the heavenly Jeru
salem are the habitations of the blessed, in these consists
Heaven ; for in every star there are inhabitants, not one
of them is empty : if I should h ive to travel to all, it
would require a long eternity. As to those, of whom it
ran be foreseen that they led no good life in this world
forbear to ask ine, because I would have to omit answer
ing your questions,"
Hereupon she a^ain
became silent, but soon after held
stich an exhortation to a!! that present, thai <!im*
was not one who did not burst into a Hood of tears. First
she depicted the situation of the damned and unhappy as
more than wretched and deplorable, and then continued :
"The Hymn" O Eternity, thou thunderbolt ecc.
&c.* speaks most awfully of damnation, but this is
but a type of its horrors if I would speak of it for
days, I would be unable to depict more than but a
part of their magnitude. The third degree of damnation
is too terrible and painful, there is not a second of alle
viation ever occurs, but the torments re-commence con
stantly anew. If, when I was led thither, the vesture of
my guide had not given ine a little light, I would have
been quite unable to observe them in detail, on account
of the dense darkness which pervades the place, although
I only but entered a little distance, and therefore could
but contemplate and behold the least part thereof- How
will, she exclaimed with enthusiasm, the atheist, and
deniers of a life-hereafter, who yet are living, be astnn-
*) A hymn which hardly will be wanting in any of the
- of the Evangelical congregations.
4f
isheo1, that they have so shamefully erred in their opin1
ions and deceived themsel ves in their views. If they
could but hear one of their companions, who knows every
thing now from his own experience, moan, wail, sigh and
speak for a minute : certainly they would repent in dust
and ashes, in order to escape from this place of torture.
Those, that say ; I believe in a Creator, but deny a Re
deemer, are not much better off, than the former, for my
guide says ; that there is, as the word of God teaches ua,
but one God but three persons in the Deity : a mystery,
which the most blessed spirits are unable to solve !"
During this discourse she was full of enthusiasm, to
such a degree, that it cannot be written down, with what
emphasis she spoke. Lamentable as on the one
hand she described the situation of the damned to be, so
on the other hand she glorified that of the blessed, and
repeatedly besought every one most earnestly, to become
converted with all thier heart and soul ; but that a tho
rough reformation of the mind would previously be indis-
pensible.
" Consider only —she said in conclusion— the word
** eternal"—where no longer any end can be looked for.
I will pray my guide, to interpose particularly in my
behalf with God, that I may in this world be well puri
fied, and qualified ; every suffering, whieh God subjects
me to, I will fain bear with all patience, so that I may
gain my soul's salvation.''
Then she was asked, what was the fact in regard to
Jieitgel's explanation of, and orations on the Revelation
of St. John ? Whereupon she assumed an air of unearth-
liness, which was truly remarkable, remained quite still
for several minutes, but it was well observed, that she
held a conversation with her guide; after this she said :
" Bengel
is,
as
I
have stated,
a
chosen instrument of
God and
a
servant of God, and has received his calling
from God, to write this and other books, but
it
is
to be
remarked, that he has committed an error of three years
in his account, instead of saying, that when the year
l836 shall have arrived, the time of trouble would have
an end, he ought to have said, l839,"
., She was then asked, whether his predictions would be
fulfilled
?
to this she rep lied
48
ii He has to be sure described the times as very deplo
rable and wretched, but they will become worse, than he
has stated them."
Then she resumed of her own accord and said :
" I shall nut grow old ; before the time of trouble ter
minates, I shall be gathered home : 1 could tell many
of those, that are present, still a great deal more, but
they would not be able to bear it, therefore I will be
silent. "
After this she declared, that she perceived a great
anxiety in her soul, and begged leave from all those that
stood around her, to disburthen her heart, She then
again delivered such an impressive exhortation, with so
great a zeal and decorum as to excel those by far, which
have been enumerated already ; all that she said, was
referred to by her in the word of God, the holy Bible ;
without exaggeration, nay with justice and truth it may
be said of her, that the best orator on the pulpit could
never have proved himself her equal ; a cold shuddering
seized every person present, and tears streamed from
every eye. Fain would her speech be communicated to
all the readers of this work from word to word, but the
quickest stenographer would have been unable to appre
hend and write down every thing. In regard to her
former energetic admonitions it must be added, that she
did depict the abodes of the unhappy and the damned, as
still more terrible, and detestable, than she had done be
fore."
"Imagine also, she said, how the unfortunate are
tormented besides, by the damned and devils, some of
which suffer with them an equal degree of torture, and
others a greater. —To which this is to be added, namely;
that if the damned, by means of their sins and atrocities
committed in this world, have induced others, that are
yet living, to commit, from consideration to them, simi
lar sins, the torments of these damned souls will ba
augmented thereby. Therefore let every one be most
carefully on his guard not to give the least umbrage, by
words nor deeds ; bear it well in mind, and engrave it
deep on your hearts and souls ; that an account must bs
rendered to God of every useless word; if we do not
previously and in this world already obtain a know
49
.edge and pardon for our sins, For in the next world, the
sins of man are so vividly put before his eyes, that he
can remember each of them as clearly, as if they had been
committed by him, but an hour before. Well may it be
said then, amongst a thousand questions we cannot answer
you one !" You will not agree with me, when I tell you :
that God condemns even from love, and yet it is so; for
God is nothing but love, and his justice requires
it,
that an
unrepentant and stubborn sinner, should perish. How
bad off
is
the srnner, who begins to believe that he
is
punished for the sake of his sins, when he
is
punished
al
ready."
"Believe me truly, that all
I
have said to you, collec
tively and individually,
is
no fiction, for every word
was put into my mouth by my guide; examine and con
sider well all
I
say, whether not the whole of
it
corres
ponds with the plain word of God. Again
I
must repeat:
that
I
regret nothing more than that when awake,
I
know nothing of what
I
disclose when asleep in any of
my spells. My guide also repeatedly aks me, whether
I
do not actually comprehend, that
it
is
owing to the noblest
wisdom of God that if
I
remained conseious thereof,
I
should be totally unfit for this world."
Then she became quite silent; after
a
short pause, she
was asked concerning the cholera, which had found its
way into Europe
;
whether no remedy for
it
could be
suggested
?
and whether
it
would also find its way into
our native country? These questions she answered as
follows
:
The first
:
" Against this sickness no physician in the world will
be able to suggest
a
sure remedy. Who will and can
resist God
?
This sickness has been introduced
by
the
angel of God. who strikes with his sickle,
it
must exist."
The second
:
"It will also find its way to us; but
my guide does not inform me when
;
Watch and pray,
that you may not fall into temptation, {the spirit
is
willing,
but the flesh
is
weak
;"
before the year l839 does ensue,
it
will come. Happy will be those, that then are taken
away, for after the harvest there
is
yet an autumn in
store for the world, before
it
be quite completed
;
those
who then perish, will go into the vessels of wrath
;
alas
so
they will lake a more than deplorable end. My guide
tells me that he cannot iuform me of that, which will then
happen, even if it should be revealed to him, that expe
rience will give us the clearest explication, only this
much am I permitted to communicate to you, that you
are to pay the greatest attention, to what shall occur.—
Now I am commanded silence. —
She then became a little quiet, but soon after she said:
"Now I begin my return, and in five minutes from
this I shall have performed it."
This proved correct to the second, because in it her
kuide left her 5 immediately after, she said :
"Brother, now waken me."
- After a space of ten minutes she awoke,' with that
lovely, friendly, and smiling air, usual to her, and this
sleep, after so many and momentous disclosures had an
end.
Jin! of the guide and consecration for higher journey*.
The l 6th (if November she arose with great anxiety
;:iid continued to complain of it more and more the whole
forenoon ; after eleven o'clock she fell into a sleep, which
<Tten recurred, but never did her guide appear, she also
always awoke of her own accord, but her af.xiety did not
cease.
At half past three in the afternoon her sleep became
more profound, when it had lasted nearly sis minutes,
she assumed an air of gaiety; being asked, w hat this
meant ? she said ;
"1 perceive such a brightness, as is usual, when my
guide comes to me."
After the expiration of a minute she actually received
Tim, and she said directly :
This time he does not accompany me on my journey."
Hot soon after she burst into a more than loud and al
most inconsolable fit of weeping on her own account, and
then said—
5l
" Recording to my opinion I had considered myself
better and more pious, than what I really am, but now
my guide shews me' the scroll of my sins, it is very large;
much is recorded in it, what L never thought sinful.
Alas, she sighed, —dear brother ! implore with me, most
earnestly and from the bottom of our souls, Jesus Christ
the Redeemer of the tVorld, that t may be exonerated
therefrom for ever and ever ; and unite therewith, my
heartfelt prayer, that I may by no means have to sUy
here too long.''
Then she exclaimed with the greatest energy:
" To how great an extent must the register of sins In
crease, of a man who attains an age of sixty, seventy, nay
eighty years, even supposing that he did pass with the
world as quite an honorable, moral and popular man, liable
to the charge of no offence, such as we call vice. Of those
who wantonly and wickedly extend their register, I for
bear to speak at this time, only the remark I cannot ne
glect to repeat, that mankind be, they toid ever so plainly
and emphatically, will absolutely not believe how rigidly
God judges every sin ; —not only those, we commit by
words and deeds, are entered upon the register or scroll ;
but every bad thought is also charged to account, I d >
not know how to express myself, but itappears tome, as if
the register of my offences laid open before me, was stat
ed in several columnss, in such a manner, that every
thing that has been done, by deed, word, and in thought
was each separately enumerated."
She now became silent for a while, and it wa3 plainly
perceived, that her gloomy countenance by degrees be
came serene ; when she was completely revived, she
6aid with extacy :
"My guide tells me, that my trespasses are now for
given ; that this had to happen to me, that I might not
dispense with the higher revelations, and deem myself
better than what 1 really am, but I am to use that which
hat been shown to me, as a memento. —Now my guide
consecrated me for the higher and more important jour-
Beys. " .»
f She now in the profoundestsleep, quite erected herself,
and adjusted herself for the act. When this was pas;.,
52
her guide left her, and she asked her brother to ^vaken
her. When she awoke she became per fectly serene,
and said :
" Now my anxiety is entirely gone."
first journey into Venus.
The 17th November, she made her first journey into
Venus. This journey she predicted so early as the 10th
November, being the day, when she was visited by the
physician of the Oberamt, Dr. A...... of K. and
caused him to be informed, that, on the lTth of this
month he might enter into communion with her, in the
manner she had previously indicated, but at which time
none aught to be present but himself and her brother
A
With these declarations, Dr. A was very well
pleased ; and he actually arrived at the appointed time,
but instead of coming alone, he brought also three other
gentlemen with him.
In the forenoon already she complained of anxiety and
was also dejected ; before she laid down, Dr. A
had to be reminded, how he could enter into communion
with her.
Having Said herself down at the appointed time, it
was plainly observed, that she did not assume the same
appearance as formerly. Her guide regularly appeared
to her, and as soon as he had come, she said :
" 1 shall require six minutes to accomplish this jour
ney." Which proved correct to a second.
When he had arrived, she said :
" 1 am in a beautiful city."
Doctor A was requested to ask her the name of
this city ? " What do I care for the name of this city
and liow it looks ;" he said, and instead of it, he put
quite another quesflon to her, ulid addressed her in the
plural; whereupon she said :
53
"Thou mast use the word thou, if thou wilt «nter into
communion with me."
Instead of being led on in her career, she was quite
led oft" from it. The questions, which Dr. A
put to her, were of such a nature, that no angel could
have answered them, and such as ought to have been ad
dressed to the deity only. Her answers however corres
ponded with his questions.
The question put to her by Dr. A was as follows :
"How she would prove, that she was a real Somnambu
list f" To which she answered :
"This day eight weeks my spell will terminate, there
fore visit me in four or five weeks, because I shall then
perform journeys to Saturn and Uranus, whence I shall
suggest remedies for different sicknesses, which no phy
sician has yet thought of, then will I give you the clear
est proofs. *)
Then she was asked, what other journeys she would
perform after this ? Whereupon she said —
"Again into Venus, because the one of this day has
been so miserably disturbed. When my journey to
Venus shall be completed, I shall make ajourney intu
Jupiter."
Finally she was asked, whether she could not lo; k
down upon our earth ? When she said —
" Yes, it looks blackish and appears to me not larger
than a large ball, such as children play with. Now I
commence my return, and will perform it by two minutes
sooner, than my journey hither."
Having completed it, she said to Dr. A ;
"A , now waken me."
He replied : What if I do not waken thee, when wilt
thou waken P To which she replied—
"The consequence will only be, that I shall lie here
in a state of stupor, after which you will have to waken
nte for all ; but I shall shortly become still more weak
ened."
u But being already greatly debilitated, and as an ab
solute repugnance was entertained, to heighten her weak-
*
) but he that did not come was Dr. A. .....
54
ness still more, he wakened her. When she had awoke,
she was far from being as lively as formerly, but treated
Dr. A with the greatest respect.
The whole being past, Dr. A sincerely avowed ;
" that he had no knowledge of such a case, nor could he
comprehend it ; Professor Eschenmayer of Tubingen or
Doctor Koener of Weinsberg had therefore better be con
sulted/'
The former was applied to, as evidenced by the letters
communicated in the introduction.
Second Journey into Venus.
The l9th of November she made her second journey
into Venus. Flaving laid herself down, she became quite
still for about six minutes ; her guide having appeared,
she said ;
" In six minutes I shall accomplish this journey
which again proved correct to a second ; she then said of
her own accord —
"Now I am again in a city, called Zeniria.''
She then expressed great indignation, that her first
journey had been so miserably frustrated, in future she
directed the putting of useless questions to her, to be by
no means tolerated, as they would lead to no useful pur
pose. —
Having composed herself, she was asked, whether
questions might also be addressed to her this day ? To
which she replied—
" Yes, but by no means such as are useless and of no
avail, for thereby I should much offend my guide."
Then enquiry was made, at the instance of a reverend
clergyman, concerning a Clergyman, named Helferich,
who for more than seventy years had not been heard
from, who had not returned from a walk, whose fate to
this hour remains unknown, not the least information
concerning him having transpired ; his relations having
55
conceived the very doubtful opinion, that, on account of
his remarkably pious course of life, and having been so
zealous a defender of leligion, he might have been re
moved alive to the abode of the Blessed (?!) To this she
replied —
"His relations and friends have erred in their opinion;
he was killed by enemies, who would not tolerate hia
zeal, and he was burried with all his clothing, near and
under an oak, which has long since been cut down ; if it
had been dug up by the root, his bones would have be
come visible. His soul lives now in Uranus, where he
is appointed as one of the principal teachers."
Alter this she was asked ; how far distant is Venus
from the earth ? When she said :
"Five and a half millions and fifteen millions of miles
from the sun.
Thisdeclaration made a deep impression upon thelit^ra-
ti,
w/io were present, because the best astronomers assume
the same distance.
Then enquiry was made concerning the highly en
lightened, learned and pious, principal preacher of the
Court, Dr. Storr, who died at Stuttgard, the 17th Janu
ary 1805
;
whereupon she said —
" My guide says, he
is
a servant of God."
Then the martyr Huss was enquired after, and the
following answer was given —
'« He too
is
a
servant of God, and stands at the right
hand of Luther. —The Prophets and Apostles are all
servants of God likewise, for God
is
surrounded
by
in
numerable servants."
Another literary character caused enquiry to be made
relative to the emperor Joseph II. when she said—
" He
is
in Uranus.''
The question was then put
;
where Gustavus Adol-
phus King of Sweden had his residence
?
"He, she said
is
in the sun, an elect of God, and en-
Finally enquiry was also made after Pope Clement,
XIV. known in History, as a pious and upright man
;
of
him she said—
"He
is
appointed as an eminent teacher in Saturn."
reat felicity.
56
Thequestion was then also stated; how the planet Ve
nus was constituted? to which she replied :
" It resembles a world, but it is far nobler, upon it are
beautiful plains and also mountains, but not as many a*
on the moon, trees are here, and the most splendid parks,
and the finest of flower3. Next Wednesday I shall again
ascend a mountain in Venus. —I see again a great many
blessed, and those of all nations and religions ; let no
one believe, that do profess this or that religion, indu
ces a preference in eternity. God does not judge ac
cording to this or that religious profession, but agreebly to
the heart, in which real piety and a living faith in the
Redeemer of the world shall exist. Amongst the many
nations, tongues and languages, that are here, reign the
greatest love and harmony, and all know each other.
My guide tells me : It is true, you cannot explain it
to yourself, the origin of so great a love and har
mony amongst such a variety of nations from your sinful
world. From the source of all himself, my guide doe»
add, for here there is no longer any disputing about re
ligion, where this one will reproach the other, j our doc
trine of faith has these defects : and the other, yours hat
those ; my guide says, here the many syllogisms carried
to so great a heights, are all dropped, for to every one it
is but too obvious, why it is so and not otherwise, for here
there is an end at once to much of the patch-work in
many, many things of your former world, but that which
encroaches on the attributes of God, progresses but slow
ly, whereas that which belongs to God alone remains in
dissoluble to all eternity, for God is God, and remaini
God. Only that which is insenitable, my guide tells me,
leads no longer to any arguments ; for not only diffidence
and the most profound reverence restrain every blessed
»pirit, be he ever so highly gifted, but every one that i»
blessed, is convinced beforehand that this is only possi
ble to a Deity ; the happiest of all the blessed, and evea
the angels created from the beginning refrain from it
cheerfully, for my guide says, that the most blessed of
all spirits have enough to do, with the admiration of the
grandeur, wisdom, and almighty power of God, that to
all eternity they not cease doing so, because God can
St
never stop his operations, and that gives them constantly
occasion to admire anew. My guide tells me, that of the
grandeur of God, neither the Angels, that were created,
nor the blessed from the creation of the world, can form
any idea whatever, and much less the sinful and often so
shortsighted inhabitants of your earth, for God is from
the beginning equally great to himself. If, says my
guide, your globe of sin could be touched with but a
pin, it could not in the least be compared with the uni
verse of God, but to make any comparison whatever with
the grandeur of God, was out of the question. My guide
concerning this addresses tome words, which cause me to
sink with humility, nor am I capable to even express
them."
Then she exclaimed, replete with a reverence visible on
Vier brow and all her features :
"Holy! Holy! Holy is the Lord God, our God!— Oh I
if but (he heart ol every human being was somewhat im
pressed with the greatness of God, the names of God and
his Son would not be so often used in vain by all man
kind; this sin, is one of those, which are not acknowledged
by man, yet are great trespasses, not one of which will
be left out of the account.
When she had finished this speech, her features rc'
mained serene, but she herself quieted, except that it was
observed, that she constantly conversed with her guide
without, however, uttering the least sound.. Aftera pro
longed pause she was asked ; whether she would perlorm
still more journeys into Venus ? whereupon she said :
"Yes, five more besides the one of this day, but I have
to deprecate the very great crowd of people", that crave
admittance, for they make me afraid."
Finally she was asked ; that as here and there doubts
were still entertained concerning her situation, it would
be very desirable, that a physician possessing a know
ledge thereof, might be called in, and that therefore it
was desirable to be informed, who would be the
fittest and best to be consulted. Whereupon she re
plied :
"That Professor JSschenmayer of Tubingen, was the
most eminent ; that Koerner of Weinsberg, would also do
very well, but that the former was preferable, that she wish'
til most cordially, that her innocence might be saved."
Observing, that she was very weak, no other question
was put to her; her return being accomplished and her
guide having left her, she said to her brother:
"Now waken me."
Seven minutes after this she awoke with the most un
clouded serenity, but soon afterwards complained of lan
guor.
Third Journey into t'enut.
The 2lst November she made her third journey into
Venus, with the same punctuality as heretofore. Hav
ing arrived there, she said—
"Now I require yet two minutes, before I s/iaU arrive
at the mountain, which I have to ascend.
And when arrived there —
"Now I require four minutes, to ascend this moun
tain." . .
Both of which proved correct to a second. Then she
continued —
'.Beit known to you, the mountain is called Tillig ;
now I shall require yet one minute, before I am conduct
ed on what appears to be a kind of rock, yet is no rock,
but quite another sort of stones, it is quite brilliant. I
had to ascen I up one hundred and eighty steps,
which were all pretty high, here the progress is by no
means so rapid, as it was on my journey hither from the
earth ; this is effected in the same manner as it is done
by men, the path and stairs to the mountain and upon the
mountain are very narrow, around the stone, upon which
I am led, there is a splendid railing, for the surface of it
is small, and exceeds not the double breadth of a table!
Thence I overlook a great part of this starry world, oa
which there are many towns, but as far as I can see, fev
er mountains, I only perceive one yet, which however i»
lower than the one I have ascended. But I regret, that I
59
lack words and strength, to tell and describe to you all
the beauties, which exist here. I can only refer you
with the greatest earnest and emphasis to my former ad
monitions. Ifbut the miserable mhabitants of the earth
would believe, that the enjoyment of felicity is so delight
ful : certainly the earth we inhabit would be quite differ
ent, but as it is, it is full of wickedness ; I say not too
much, if I say, it is a world of devils.''
"All the stars are, as I have stated several times alrea
dy nothing else but world, only that I cannot bring them
in the least comparison with the world we inhabit, for
here every thing reflects rays of brilliancy and light.
This star shines even on the earth so brilliantly,
imagine then, how beautiful it must be, when you arrive
upon it.''
Appearing to rejoice thus with all her soul, the persons
present were ditfident, to question her ; yet after a short
pause, she resumed then ot her own- accord :
"I see here no blessed spirits walk about, and yet is the
mountain more transcendently beautiful; my guide con
tends himself at this time entirely with my own delight .
Below,atthe foot of the mountain, there is a lovely park
laid out, the trees standing all in the finest order, they
look like firs, but they are not. There are) several
paths in various directions, but they are extremely small;
flow ers of various kinds are also here, exhaling so delight
ful an odor, that'I am unable, to convey to you the least
idea thereof, 1 cannot in the least compare them with
any flower on earth, be it ever so odoriferous. Around
the mountain too, there are florets, which are more dimi
nutive, but of as delightful and refreshing a scent—and
the green surface, which we call turf is truly beautiful.
Every thing, as I have already stated to you, reflects the
most splendid rays in all possible colours, and there is
nothing left me bat to admire. In two minutes I shall
again leave the mountain."
Then an honest, well disposed man begged leave, sepa
rately from all other persons, to direct some questions to
her, whereupon all those who were present, withdrew ;
which questions she did not only answer to his satisfac
tion, but so correctly as to excite his astonishment.
60
Then she commenced her return, during which enquiry
was made by a person concerning a deceased female,
which question she answered in such a manner, that the
person who had caused it to be put, afterwards said —"I
have received the most authentic and correct answer, for
that which she said, hits at my earnest and continous
prayer been shown to me in a dream, which as yet nobo
dy knew; who will then doubt its truth, I have been
more than convinced of it. " Sad, but comforted, she
left the bed of the Somnambulist.
After completing her return, she said to her bro
ther—
"Now waken me."
When she awoke, she was cheerful and gay, but
complaine3 of great weakness, and remained another
full hour in bed, *
Fourth Journey to Venus.
The 2Sd November, she fell into her usual trance at
the time predicted ; no sooner had her guide appeared,
than she said— . .
' 'In six minutes I shall be again in Venus."
Having arrived on the spot and in the city, she was
to visit, she was asked its name, and replied — "
"It is called Sodia; one city is always handsomer than
the other ; the gates are to be sure spacious and magnifi
cent, but the streets are narrower. The blessed, that
live on tbe south side, have a preference over those that
inhabit the north or left side, because the former will be
removed somewhat earlier to a place of higher felicity,
for every one that is blessed, passes through several habi
tations, before he attains a higher felicity."
After perambulating the city, she said —
.'I am again conducted into alarge and splendid build
ing, which stands without the city.— In it I have to as
cend a flight of twenty steps, the stairs are not very
Si
broad, but exceedingly beautiful, and the railing* are so
magnificent t nd br-ght that I do not dare io touch them .
I hear delightful singing ; I come to the doors of the hall,
these excel in beauty. I enter and listen to the hymn —
"Praise je the Lord, the mighty king of glory, <kc." At
the heatl of each row stand the teachers; they again bear
marks of distinction from tire learner, their faces appear
supernatural and brighU At the side of the hall, but
somewhat elevated nearly fifty are standing, who play
upon harps."
She was then asked how these harps were formed, ami
she gave the following account concerning them—
."They are not unlike the harps u .ed on earth, but they
are far more elegant, and handsome, and the tone, which
resounds from them, is heavenly. The splendor, love and
harmony, which reign here amongst the blessed, I am un
able to express with words, nor to convey an idea there
of—all I say, is tee incomplete."
The question was then asked : How it was there in
regard to coldness and heat i to which she replied —
" The atmosphere here, is much milder than upon the
moon, and pleasantly warm. Although one does not
count here any longer by days, because night exists here
no more, a thousand days appear here to the blessed not
so long, than with us but one day, if even it should be
passed ever so cheerlully and satisfactoriJy, because they
can never become weary of felicity. Imagine only, 'that
no sufferings from without, nor from within, disturb the
blessed any longer, for here there exist neither affliction
nor pain; all that, which is called terrestrial and evane
scent, exists no more ; that happiness, which is enjoyed
here surpasses by far, that, which we call happiness; that
life, which we mortals lead, is more than distressing, may
we deem ourselves ever so happy .''
She then was asked, whether she did perceive or meet
with any animals, like those on our globe ? whereupon
she said—
"As yet I have neither perceived nor seen any. '
She then was asked, whether she would not also come
into Paradise, where the malefactor who suffered with
Christ, found a reception ? To which she replied—
62
."Yes, but this will happen during one of my lait jonp.
neys.—I must yet mention something else, the hall,
which is shewn to me to--day rs not near sofuWaithe one
in the moon ; and ihave also met with far more blessed
spirits in the stars, which I have already visited; mj
guide tells me, that the higher the degree of felicity, the
less I shall meet with any, to attain afeltctty, such as ex
ists in Venus, infinitely much is required, improvement
in eternity does netprogress so rapidly, but only from
step to step.
** '
She now again delivered a very serious discourse to
all, and concluded with the most heartfelt praver—
"That they might aH use every possible c#ort, to be
saved; it is impossible for me, to describe a state of fe
licity, and if I had years to speak in continuation because
I should always lack words, to depict it as it truly is in
asmuch as our language has no words to express. Paul did
say correctly, when he spoke of his extacy : "that he
heard unspeakable words," it is more than true, that they
are unspeakable,"
After this she was again asked whether the blessed
were always in the hall ? when she said —
"No, but I have told you once already, that they have
their habitations in the city; when they are in the lec
ture-rooms, then in the eity as if it were depopulated,
whence it happens, that I never see any one in it. They
also perambulate the environs around the city, in which
there are the handsomest gardens, but the paths in them
are all very narrow and yet very pleasant to walk upon;
these are flowers so beautiful, as the earth neither does,
nor can produ-ce, for the soil does not bear them ; these
retain their refreshing perfume, nor do .they decay, the
blessed also never become weary of them, for my guide
tells me, that they constantly discover something new in
them, which inspires them with admiration and the great
est veneration 4'orthe infinite greatness of God."
These words she also again connected with a very se
rious admonition, to repent and become converted, where
upon she continued as fellows—
"To-morrow, as I have heretofore already stated, I
shall become very weak, whereas next SunrKy morning,
63
I shall be tolerably well. By twelve o'clock, at noon, 1
shall fall into a trance, during which I shall speak, and
also point out the small herb, b^ which I shall be restor
ed to my former state of health, but this must only be
applied, when I shall indicate it; I have to point it out at-
present, for this reason, that it may yet be collected,. be
fore the ground be frozen too hard and too deeply covered
with snow. —When I visit Saturn antt Uranus, I shall be
-
able to suggest remedies and cures for external sores, as
well as sicknesses of the body ; but this is not to be un
derstood, that I shall be of service to every one,. but
certainly t» many, if they duly observe and follow my
prescriptions. I desire, but too ardently, that during that
period I may be attended by a physician, who has a know
ledge of, and understands a state of Somnambulism, be
cause then a great deal would certainly be accomplished,
but as this will not be the case, a great deal will also be
frustrated. — Eh ! says my guide to me; be satisfied with.
that whieh you will actually perform."
Immediately after this, she said—
"Now begins my return."
When it was accomplished, she desired to be re-
awoke. When she awoke she was replate with love and
cheerfuJness, but complained of being somewhat fati
gued.
Fifth Journey into Venut*.
The 25th November, when the clock struck twelve,
she again fell into a trance, the effect of Somnambulism,
as had been predicted by her. Having received her
guide, she said—
"In six minutes I shall have completed my journey
hither."
When she had arrived on the spot designated, she com
menced to speak—
64
"Now I am taken into a most beautiful little park, I
*hall require three minutes for my passage through the
same ; the trees stand in well arranged rows, they are alt
«f the same height and fhickness, and their tops incline
inwards each other, in a most beautiful manner ; in this
tittle park there are a great many, but narrow pattis, and
flowers, which excel in beauty; the delightfulness of
their scent, and the pleasantness of this little grove, I
nm not in the least capable to describe. — Men too, form
rill kinds of sceneries, which are often admired, but the
best and most excellent of them are all but a miserable
phantom, for this scenery always remains equally hand
some end agreeable; no tempest injures it,. no cloudy
day deprives the same of its pleasatness, and neither frost,
coldnor snow derube the trees of their foliage or
strip the flowers of their bloom, in eternity all changes of
this kind have ceased." (
4' Now I come to what appears to be a gate, it is of
the size of a common gate, and has pillars, which arc
quite round, and although white, yet their wlii'feness is
mixed with a rosy redness, and as I often am at a loss t»
describe beauties, I mnst also now be silent. —Broiler,
the little herb has been shown to me by my guide, by the
use of which I shall recover, you must incline towards
me ; it is called mallow, there are a great many plants
, f the same growing around our house, but these I dare
wis!? make use of, when I shall have to perform no more
tourneys, and then only for eight days, when I shall have
to take of them each time three leaves, in the morning,
noon mid evening, in this will consist the whole of my
cure.
After a short pause she continued to speak-—-
" Now I am introduced into a garden, which appears
to be surrounded by a wall, at the entrance or gate
stand two pillars, adorned above as with crowns, the
stones are again of a peculiar kind, they are white, of a
blue shade, and resemble alabaster, but they are much
liner, I observe no joints, the whole seems to be compos
ed of one piece. To describe to you the beauty of the
interior of the garden is impossible for me, be satisfied
with this ; whatever is terrestrial, is terrestrial, and
65
what is heavenly is heavenly, the one is evanescent, the
other never decays. The perfume, exhaled by the flow
ers and herbs, in this spot —my guide tells me— no mor
tal could bear ; here are also trees, and upon several I
see the most beautiful and delicious fruits."
She remained quiet during a few minutes, when she
re-commenced and said : .
''I have asked my guide how it happens that the
blessed who are here, having adopted refined bodies, yet
do they speak, sing, and play upon harps, and when I
stretch out my hands to touch one, it is as if I were to
seize a shadow ; whether they enjoy the odour which
prevails here, and the fruits that are on the trees ?
Whereupon my guide tells me : You are but spiritually
here, not with your soul, and yet you partake of the de
lightful scent ; but the blessed enjoy it in a much higher
measure. As respects the enjoyment of the fruits, the
matter is thus : they do not eat them in reality, but they
derive from them a sense of taste, as if they actually en
joyed them. My guide further tells me : when a person
dreams (which is the constant waking of the soul) it
often happens to him, as if he had enjoyed the most de
licious viands, fruits and beverage, and when he awakens
he finds that his body and soul are empty ; with the
blessed it is different, who although they do not taste
them, yet find themselves satiated. More I cannot tell
ou, adds my guide, the remainder is only known to God
imself. There are many walks in this garden, but the
whole of them are quite narrow, and yet the blessed
walk about on them in great number. Whilst wander
ing through the garden with my guide, two ereated an
gels pass me who look upon me with the most cordial
love and affability. At a distance I again see sis created
angels, who are coming to meet me ; they pass me in a
similar manner.
" Now I am led into the City, named Sorizzia, which
it far handsomer than the former, of this beauty I can
give no one an idea. The road thither from the garden
is of a bright red color, but also narrow ; the gate or
entrance into the same is adorned with several magnifi
cent little towers, which are inexpressibly betiUtifuU'*
66
Whilst she wandered through the City, nothing was
observed on her features but an extraordinary indication
of astonishment ; after thoroughly passing through the
same, she said :
" Now I am again taken into a great edifice, where
those Blessed, that live here, hold their meetings j be
fore it there are four flights of steps, in the interior I
'have again to mount a flight of twenty steps j if the for
mer were splendid and beautiful, these are much hand
somer ; before the entrance into the hall, two bright-red
columns arc erected, which are more than admirable,"
"Just as I am entering the hall, my guide shews me
a youth of 21 years, from America, who arrived here but
two hours ago, who died of the cholera; this morning at
eight o'clock he was attacked by this sickness, and at
ten o'clock he was already a corpse. His father, a cler
gyman, is 61 years old, the mother 56, and he also has
t'irec brothers and sisters."
When she was asked where he formerly lived, she
named :
" Philadelphia."
Then the name of the father was also asked, but she
replied : /
" Be satisfied for the present with this. The joy
which pervades the Blessed, if there be one introduced
amongst them straight from this world, is inexpressibly-
great. In our world, Kings and great Lords are often
received with extraordinary pomp, music and honors,
but these are worthless gewgaws in comparison with those
displayed, when a blessed spirit is taken to his home
The music, songs and joy, which pervade heaven, that is
in felicity, with the blessed, can neither be described nor
expressed. for there is no admixture which would form
a drawback upon that which is actually real, splendid
and beautiful, every thing there is as clear as the sun,
unsullied and pure ; whereas in our world, if the best
grace be added to a reception, so much of that which is
impure is mixed therewith, particularly on the part of the
receivers, that only one versed in a knowledge of th*
heart can expound it."
67
When she had finished this speech, she said, without
any one being in the least aware of the fact :
" The man *) who lies now a corpse in this place, has
just escaped the first degree of the unhappy, he has been
received in the moon."
After this she again addressed an exhortation to all
those that were present, in which she always placed the
state of felicity into juxta-position with the abodes of the
Unhappy and Damned, she was each time so zealous and
enthusiastic, that one was forced to believe, as if she
wanted to compel every person by force to be saved, so
anxiously had she the felicity of every individual at heart.
Then she resumed :
"What I cannot leave unpromulgated is this : if a
blessed spirit is removed from this to a higher degree of
felicity., he is consecrated by the teachers present, and
thence he is accompanied by the created angels. During
my last journey into Venus, my guide tells me, I shall
be permitted to witness such an act of consecration.
The created angels bring with them the orders, that this
or that person be qualified for a higher felicity."
Inquiry was then again made about men, whose op-
right conduct and piety had been exemplified by deeds,
and she satisfactorily indicated their places of residence.
Then she continued to speak :
"It has been vouchsafed me to touch the feet of the
created angels, they wear laced boots, which are glitter
ing white, with loops of rose color ; they are no shadows,
but real bodies ; their hands, which they keep folded
over their breasts, resemble white wax, but glistening,
and their faces reflect quite a clear brilliancy, —Ah ! how
wisely does God act, that, when awake, I do not
know what I hear and what is shown- to me! —I should
be quite unfit for this world. The love, harmony and
fidelity, which dwell with the blessed, I can not agaia
leave unmentioned ; they are actually singing the Hymn
composed by Frederick Starke :.
"In God I always (h> rejoice,
In God I find my purest joys,
») Constable B r.
63
Blesa'd am I and rich in God,
Felicity!—thy name is God! &c."
In this hymn there are also some reminiscences touch
ing life on earth.
" Again I must repeatedly remind you, that in a stats
of felicity there exists absolutely no respect of persons,
certainly has he, to whom pounds were given, also to ren
der an account of what he has received ; in the same
manner have kings to tender an account, according to the
degree to which they were elevated ; and when they
bring their magnificence into a City of God, they enjoy a
preference only in regard to the great amount wherewith
they were here entrusted, but on the other hand receive
also a proportionally greater punishment ; so that from
the lowest to the highest on Earth, the surest and truest
equilibrium is established. But do not for this reason
understand me, that in Eternity the teast respect of per
son does find room, for God only judges according to tha-
heart, as I have several times already toid you, here
there is no privilege, nor preference granted, neither to
religion, nation, ses, new descent. In the empire of eter
nities reigns alone a true and just Equality ; in.
^this
world it is as impossible to establish it as to find it ; this.
is only possible in such regions, where neither self-love,
nor pride, hatred, envy, strife, &c., exist any longer."
When she had finished these speeches, she said :
" Now begins my return."
When it was accomplished, she desired to be wakened ;
eight minutes after, she awoke and again was full of
sweetness, she asked what she had said, because it ap
peared to her, that her sleep had this time been of longer
duration than heretofore. When the most important of
it had been related to her,. she said :.
" But is it then possible that I should remember not
the least of all that happens to me! When I am asleep
it is the same with me as with a person who, when awa
kening from a profound sleep, cannot even tell that he
had been dreaming ; but I also. could not be wakened*
Uke one that enjoys a natural sleep, for every member of
C9
.my body might be severed from
it,
without my becoming
aware of
it
m the least."
Experiments were also made, during
a
previous epoch
and afterwards, by deeply pricking the soles of her feet
with needles, which certainly any one would have pain
fully felt, but she remained quite insensible and there
was likewise never the least symptom visible, neither in
her face nor any other part of her body, vhich might
have led to
a
supposition that she felt the smart, but en
deavored to suppress it.
.
Sixth journey into Vcnut-
*
As she had predicted during her last journey, she
again fell into
a
trance, at precisely twelve o'clock on
the 25ih of November, and required precisely the same
time fyr the performance of the journey, as she had dono
before.
''
I
am again conducted
by
my guide into
a
City, called
Sora
;
but
it
again
fs
handsomer than the former, the
farther
I
proceed, the more glory
I
behold.
I
hear
music resounding from harps, but as yet from
a
consider
able distance. The gates and buildings are again hand
somer than the former, the street through the City
is
again not wide* but
is
exceedingly beautiful. Ah! so
manifold
is
the magnificence, that
I
am at
a
loss whera
to begin, and find Jjiat
I
have omitted to state so much
of what nevertheless can be so easily comprehended,
namely
;
that the buildings in all the Cities are like each
other, only with this difference, that they increase in
beauty, as the felicity rises in degree
j
it
appears as
if
one side of the street was but one building, but
it
is
not
so
j
the whole o-C them are also amply provided with the
most splendid windows
j
bye-streets
1
have never ob
served. Eh
!
says my guide
;
in these towns there aro
no lanes, they only extend in length
;
he asks me whe
ther
I
have not observed, that the towns always resemble.
70
each otlier in k-tlgth and breadth ; they are all square,
each is a model of the main City, but only in miniature,
not in height."
" Now I am led again into a splendid edifice, without
the city, the windows in this are again as large and beau
tiful as they were in those in which I was heretofore 5
whereof, to give you but a very small comparison, I must
say: it appears as if the windows were illuminated "by
the rays of the setting sun, assuming and reflecting a yel
low, gold-like lustre 5 by this I want to give you but a
.
very small idea thereof, for I have by no means fully ex
pressed myself concerning
it,
because
I
lack words to,do
it. —
I
have again to ascend twenty flights of steps
;
if
the stairs and railings in the former buildings were hand
somely and splendidly executed, these again excel them
in beauty
;
before
1
enter the Hall,
I
come to
a
large por
tal, for all the convention-rooms, which
I
have yet seen
and were shown to me, are all very high, but this
is
the
case with them more or less, for these too are constructed
according to the degrees of the felicities
;
at the entrance
of this portal there are two magnificent, nay more than
beautiful columns, the tops of which are adorned with
crowns, which excel in beauty*—Now
I
am .introduced
into
a
Hall, where they actually sing the hymn composed
by HUler, which
is
to be found in his Casket
of Divine
Songs, on page 130 of the 2d volume
;.
the text for which
is
taken from the prophet Isaiah S5, 10, which reads
thus
:
"Everlasting joy [shall be] upon their heads
:
they
shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing
shall flee away." -'
The hymn
is
as follows
:
4' One day in Heaven to live,
Imparts more joy than thousands here
5
[on Earth]
Why then to Earth should
I
cleave
?
No—that disgusts me —makes me fear—
..
.'
Could man be here
a
thousand years,
And live in joyful vanity —
Tormenting pains would be his gains.—
Compared with Thee
;
—Felicity!"
71
This Verse she pronounced quite slowly, from word to
Word, with this addition :
" My guide gave it out to me, for it was hitherto un
known to me, and it has peculiar interest for me, in so
far, that I may never become enamoured of the World.'*
This caused the question to be put : where Hiller had
his place of residence in blessed Eternity ? to which sho
made answer t
"
'..
" He is in the Sun and an Elect of God, he will soon
qualify himself to become a servant of God."
She was then asked : whether she knew none of the
teachers present ? to which she replied :
Why do you ask, not having known them ; a clergy
man is here, named Wutm, my father is well acquainted
with his son. The teachers are also removed, and do not
always remain in the same spot, as Felicity constantly
increases in bliss. The brightness by whieh the blessed
are surrounded it is impossible for me sufficiently to de
scribe. In the centre of the Hall, which is large and
very commodious, a very large crown is suspended.
" Oh! how will those, that now scoff at my declara
tions, yet be cast down and humbled ; if not in this
world, certainly on the other side of the grave ; let them
be saved or not, they will every one of them have to givo
me the testimony, that what I have stated was the fact.
God, the omnipotent and omniscient is my witness, that
truly I am no Impostor ; I proceed not a point further
than -what my guide says, and commands me to say."
She was then asked the number of the Blessed here
present ? to which she replied :
"Their number is 2384 ; but the Hall could contain a
considerably larger number. What I have so often said,
is also here again applicable in the most extensive sense ;
that the Harmony and Equanimity of the Blessed cannot
be sufficiently praised and eulogised : as little am I ca
pable to express the euphony of the music and singing.''
After a short pause she continued :
"I have repeatedly besought my guide : that if it co
incided with the wisdom of God, to cause the dissolution
of my terrestrial frame, I might be pirmitted to remain
here ; but he tells me, that if Miat could even happen, I
would not yet be qualified for such a state of bliss, but
that I must first proceed further ; that I should use ever;r
endeavor to deserve immediately such a felicity, but that
this will require the most zealous care and vigilance )
but that I way rest assured, that I shall not have to stay
much longer in our world of sin. — On Wednesday the
28th I shall perform my list journey into Venus, when I
shall be conducted into a temple, where those that attain
a higher state of felicity will be consecrated by their
teachers and then accompanied by the created angels.
My sincerest wish remains always this : that I might but
be permitted to stay here!"'
She now commenced her return, and during the same
declared, that the Cholera would certainly come within
our frontiers, but when this would happen, she, on being
asked, did again not state it more explicitly, than -what
she had done already ; she only said, that physician*
might spare themselves the trouble to suggest a re
medy against
it,
as none would discover one, and then
added
:
"The Cholera will destroy
a
considerable number «f
people, but more of those that are old and grown up, than
of children. Mankind, being of opinion that this epide
mical disease has passed our native country, and the
countries adjoining it, will previously become so secure,
as they became during the times of Noah, going on court
ing and suffering themselves to be wooed, until Noah en
tered the Ark."
After this speech she assumed
a
distressed appearance,
but
a
few minutes subsequently the said
:
" My guide whispers me
a
word of comfort, by say
ing
*
** Let Him, Him rule and govern,
He is a Lord that's wise,
His actions with
a
purpose stern—
(No odds how great your grief)
Will bear him out to your surprise .
'
And bring you strong relief—
When he the work shall have fulfilled
His mind has planned and wisdom willed."
73
Unexpected to every one. she then said :
" Henceforth I shall remain yet seven weeks in this
situation ; only when that period shall have expired, I
may make use of the herb that has been prescribed to me
personally. When I travel to Saturn and Uranus,
whence I shall suggest remedies, I shall often become
yery weak. After Venus, I shall visit Jupiter."
All this she said during her return. During those
moments, whilst her guide took leave, it was observed,
that she paid peculiar attention —at length she was asked;
what had been the purport of the remarks of her guide,
when he took leave from her ? to which she replied : .
"He quit me with these words:"
"The Lord bless thee and guard thee, and let his face
shine upon thee, and be gracious to thee, and give thee
bis divine peace."
Seventh Journey into Fenut,
On the 28th November she pe formed her last journey
to Venus, in the manner she had predicted. Her guide
having joined her, she said :
''Open the house*) for a person comes to visit me,
worthy of being admitted."
She also mentioned the name of this person and of
another, that had arrived a minute before. When omr
Somnambulist had arrived on the spot, above alluded to,
she said :
"The city, which I now pass, and which I shall but
be permitted to wander through on my return, is called
nearly like the one before, namely Sorr, and from it*
outside again appears to me, to excel the other in beauty,
I shall yet require four minutes in order to arrive at the
temple, that has been indicated and which in our laa-
*) From this time onward the house of her parents, had
' Ha «hut up by order of the public authorities.
74
guage has the name of the Temple of consecration. I
hear from a distance music and singing, that excel in
sweetness. —Now I have passed the outside of the city,
and am introduced into a garden, the beauties of whose
flowers and trees, I am for want of words, again una
ble sufficientlv to express ; ah ! every thing is divinely
beautiful 1—Now I have arrived at the temple, the exte
rior, magnificence, height and beauty of which, I am in
capable sufficiently to admire. I am conducted into it ;
it is quite round and very high, all around it runs a gal
lery, upon which the singers and harpers are standing ;
these perform so delightful a music, that no mortal could
btar it. The interior surpasses the exterior by far in
beauty, and I am utterly unable to state the least par
ticulars or to convey to any one the least idea of it. In
the centre of the temple stands the altar, on both sides
of which two of the blessed spirits of those that died long
since are standing, who, as it were as witnesses, attend it.
Those persons or blessed beings who are to be promoted
to a higher degree of felicity, I do not yet see. —Now the
doors are opened and those that are to be consecrated,
enter with the quickness of lightning with the teachers.
Now the holy and solemn act begins. Those, that are
consecrated, lay their hands upon their breasts, but the
teachers lay their hands upon their heads, and pronounce
benediction over them, but what is said, I do not under
stand, my guide tells me ; it is spoke in a language,
which as yet is unintelligible by you, and cannot be in
terpreted to you. —But with what dignity, yet profound
ness of respect and humility towards God, the teach
ers stand here, and what virtue must be in their words
judging from the seriousness and reverence, with which
they pronounce the same, I am unable to tell j in like
manner those, who are consecrated, stand here in the
deepest humility, only with this difference that the fea
tures of the latter seem to me to indicate a peculiar glad
ness ; but I am entirely at a loss for a proper expression.
I. am quite ignorant, what has happened to me since the
termination of this act ; the witnesses, teachers and those
that were consecrated have at once disappeared, and
music, and song have ceased to resound.—Peculiarly in
75
dulged, I am permitted to stay two minutes longer, in or
der ts behold but a few of the beauties of the Altar ; the
least I can say of it is this : the altar is square and pretty
large, each corner is ornamented with a high, round
column of the thickness of a man, and the top of each
with crowns, and around it there are again several smal
ler and thinner columns all transparently white and shi
ning, the material which they are composed of, I do not
know ; the plate of the altar, is covered with a cloth of
the clearest white silk. My regret has no bounds, that
I can state but the fewest particulars, for the beauties
which exist here, are inexpressible, for if I were to depict
them plainly and comprehensibly, I should render the
world we inhabit not only disgusting, but loathsome to
every one,"
She was then asked, to what place those that were con
secrated, had been promoted ? To which she replied :
"They are removed into Jupiter, to which planet I
shall perform my first journey to-morrow. This resem
bles a school, as soon as one becomes qualified for, and
capable of a higher degree of felicity, he is promoted thith
er. "To Jupiter I shall perform in all eight journeys. —
Now I return to the garden, in which the blessed
spirits enjoy peculiar delights —every thing with them is
so child-like, yet far from being childish. In this gar
den there are many paths, but the wjiole of them very
narrow, the blessed spirits walk to and fro, and »ften
vanish again so suddenly, that I hardly perceive it. —My
guide has quit me, but this makes no difference; if I was
only permitted eternally to remain here. —The sweet
scent, exhaled by the flowers and trees is stronger than
heretofore. The garments of the blessed are shining
white, but the teachers wear crowns upon their heads.
I approach the city, and again hear the most delightful
music, but I am unable to mention a single tune. The
city is exceedingly beautiful, and the environs are quite
level and extremely pleasant—alas! that I have to leave
them ; now my return commences, in four minui«
I shall have performed it."
When she had said this, she communicated nothin
further, and thus this journey ended, '
76
3
First Journey into Jupiter*
The 29th November she made her first journey into"
Jupiter, she staled that she would perform it in eight min
utes which proved quite correct. On her arrival there,
she said, that another minute would be required, until she
could arrive in the city ;—when she came to
it,
she could
not sufficiently admire the beauty and height of the gate,
and still less describe
it,
she remarked, that the entrance
into the same was pretty wide, but the street through the
city narrower, yet very handsome, nay admirably beau
tiful
;
the city was called Nerr, surpassing all those in
point of size and beauty which had been shown to her in
the stars, she had previously visited.
If she had hitherto exhorted every one present to re
pent and reform, she now admonished them with so great
a
solemnity and zeal, that the best orator could not have
emulated her. She reminded every one very emphati
cally, not to be saving of their knees whilst at prayer to
God and continued thus
:
"The stubborn knees of our wicked race, will yet
have to bend, and the tongues of the scoffer confess
:
" that he
is
the Lord to judge the living and the dead."
That man, who appears to the world wholy unblameable,
tins notwithstanding daily
a
great deal
;
not to mention
she gross frivolous and wanton sinners. He that attains
a
state of felicity,
is
saved to be sure, through the merit
of Jesus Christ, out of pure grace and mercy, yet nev
ertheless his felicity
is
to be considered rather as
a
re
ward for his piety and living faith. For without faith
it
is
impossible, to please God, and he, that wants to come
to God, must, believe, that
it
be he, and will re
ward those, that seek him
;
but mankind are sunk so
deep, that they presume to prescribe to God the
conditions, on which they will accept the felicity, that
is
offered to them.—My guide tells me, that any sin, how
ever slight in the eyes of man,
is
great enough to forfeit
felicity
;
that^it requires not the perpetration of foul and
very palpable sins, but that constant striving and earnest
endeavors art necessary to gain salvation. But by this,
77
l do not mean to say that we are to neglect or delay our
own proper calling. Every person ran be at prayer
and entertain noble thoughts, whilst he is faithfully and
honestly attending to the concerns of his business."
Having finished this colloquy, she said :
« I am again led into a building, situated without the
city, in which there is a great hall, this again excels in
beauty and splendor ; if I had thousands of tongue?
I should be incapable to describe the delights there
of. The number of the blessed, therein present, is
not very great ; they distinguish themselves from those
I have met with in Mercury and Venus, by this, that
they wear crowns on their heads, which however are not
very large, the crowns worn by the teachers are larger,
just now they receive instruction, for which reason I hear
neither music nor singing. —Now I am conducted into a
garden, at the beauty of which I am quite astonished and
cannot sufficiently extol the sweet scent, which pervades
it ; there are here again a great many walks, but they
are all very narrow. Blessed spirits I do not see walk
ing about here, for I find myself and guide here quite
alone. Besides the many splendid flowers and trees,
that are here, there are also herbs, which my guide tell*
ine are very salutary to man in several diseases."
She then said to her brother, with whom she kept up
the discourse :
"Go into the kitchen-garden before the house, there
you will find a small herb, near which lies a small piece
of white paper, pluck it ; and precisely under the kitch
en-window there is another, which is serrated, fetch this
also to me." *
Having brought the same, he laid them on her stomach,
and alter a short pause she said ;
These are the right ones —and then continued : up in the
the garden —describng- the spot distinctly — there stands
another, bring that also to me."
This was likewise laid upon her stomach, and after a
short pause she resumed :
"This also is the riiht one, of this gather as much as
you can, when I travel to Uranus, and Saturn, I shall in
form you, in which diseases these herbs are to be used."
•
78
Hereupon the became silent, and enquiry was made by
particular request, concerning a teacher not long since
deceased ; to which she made answer :
" He is in Cere* as teacher. But do not at present
molest me with any more questions for I feel very weak,
for the sight of the many extraordinary beauties, that have
been shown to me, and which became almost insupporta
ble to my vision, has much debilitated me. To morrow
atone o'clock in the afternoon, I shall perform my second:
journey into Jupiter."
With this the journey terminated.
Second Journey into Jupiter.
On the 30th November at one o'clock in the afternoon
she fell again into a lethargy. Her Guide having joined
her, she said :
"This time I am apprehensive there are two indivuals-
amongst those, that are here present, who at this time do
not at all deserve to be here, which will cause a procras
tination of my journey by one minute ; instead of eight, I
shall require nine minutes.* I could mention these un
worthy persons by name, although they did not appear,
until I had already fallen asleep ; but my Guide tells me,
that they will go away in a better state of mind than they
came; but it is Co be regretted, that it will take no root,
and turn out a judgment against them."
When she had accomplished her journey she said : —
" Now I am conducted into a city, called Raguel, which
is handsomer than the former, I come again into a large
edifice without the city, and have to ascend in it again a
flight of twenty steps, ere I shall enter into the meeting
Hail. Whilst I am led into
it,
a
hymn
is
sung, after the
melody
:
This did prove correct to
a
second
70
"Oh Jerusalem! thou beautv, how splendidly thou
shineth &c.
The number of the Bingers here present is not large,
they sit far apart ; their garments, as well as those of the
teachers, of whom I count six, perfectly resemble those,
which I have described during my last journey."
She was then asked about some learned men, whether
she perceived none of them ? To which she answered :
"No, altho' they were considered in. our world, as
highly gifted men' t which certainly they were, their em
ployment in the sun, consists only in the teaching of
children, for in the sun there is also a multitude of
children, .|
" I must tell you again that felicity has a great signi
fication ; if each of my drops of blood should change in
to a thousand tongues, I should not be able to express the
tranquility, pleasure and indescribable happiness of the
blessed ; not for the splendor of the whole world, would
one of the blessed miss such a minute."
" Bring mv two brothers, C— G— aged 18, and F—
aged 14, who are both beginning their worldly career,
singly here to me, that I may tell them how they have to
conduct themselves. For my Guide tells me, they are
my brothers, as well as yours. I too feal a great con
cern about their eternal welfare, although I should
not be a loser in the least in regard to my salvation even
if they should perish, the words, which I put into your
mouth, you will repeat to them, with this remark j by
all means to impress every word deeply on their minds."
Then did she alternately direct such energetic admoni
tions to them, that not only her brothers, but all those
that were present burst into fits of weeping ; in con->
t The deceased, relative to whom enquiry was made,
were Pastor Renz. of the town of Weilheim, Pastor
Frederick of Kornthai, and Pastor Storch of Aithlingen :
all three were very fond of children.
% The particulars concerning this will be told during
her journey thither.
80
1
elusion she gave them the hymn to learn, which ap
pears in the Wirtemberg Hymn book, No. 290 : '< Rise
to thy God, thou melancholy Soul ! &c., adding, '' But
comprehend it well, it will inspire you, during many af
flictions, that yet await you with consolation and courage.
After this she urgently and seriously admonished her
parents, to educate their children, in the first place, with
love, and then, if it should become necessary, with rigour,
continuing thus : " My guide tells nie, that the number of
parents, who did ill-educate- their children, gave them
bad examples, and even. led them astray into . the com
mission of sin, and bad actions, in which they partici
pated, whereby both parties came to be damned, cannot
be counted ; for children being a gift of God, their blood
will be demanded ot their parents, instead of increasing
the number of the blessed, they diminish it. Not only will
the mischief extend to the one party exclusively, but
children, who have received a bad and wretched educa
tion, generally again bring up bad children. Ah.' dear
parents think of the damnation, parents may load upon
themselves ; the charge will not remain confined to
them, but will often descend, as my Guide tells me,
to the fifth and sixth generation, and still much far
ther, during the whole of which the one will cast the
blame on the other. Oh! how sincerely and cor
dially do I desire, that each of the parents may
rightly consider the measures they ought to take
and pursue, in regard to the education of their chil
dren, for it is of vital importance. As soon as a spark of
intelligence is displayed by a child, the foundation must
be laid for that which is noble and good ; if even not all
the precepts that are given them, should strike root, many
will, and good examples set by the parents, leave a
lasting impression upon their minds,"
After this she appeared somewhat exhausted, for which
reason no further questions were put to her, After a
few minutes she however voluntarily resumed, as follows :
"Somnambulism is of a three-fold character; that,
where those subject to
it,
have Guides,
is
of greater mo
ment than the rest
;
those are also conducted, more or
81
less, into the regions of the blessed, but the others are
hot."
Then she gave a hint touching art impending important
event, soon to occur, but did not state the period, and
only added :
" Watch and pray.
"
She then emphatically recurred to the inexpressible
punishments, that await the unhappy and the damned &c,
repeatedly exhorted to serious repentance and conver
sion. She then with a deep sigh complained of great
anxiety with this addition :
In five minutes my return will be accomplished."
Her Guide having left her, she was asked in what man
ner he had this time taken leave ? To which she replied,
that he had said :
" Dear Sister! the holy Trinity be with and near you."
«*
Sing, pray and go the way,
God has assigned thee,
" Act well your part, go not astray,
"But trust with deep humility,
" In Heaven's choice reward ;
"For he that trusts with all his heart
"In God, and future bliss,
Lost and forsaken, never is."
Thus ended her present trance.
Occurrences after the second Journey into Jupiter.
On'the same day, (November the SOth,) she again re
peatedly fell asleep, from 5 o'cloek in the afternoon, as
had been predicted by her, in her former sleep ; but
these frequent returns of slumber.she only called infirmi
ties, and were of a longer or shorter duration, during sev
eral of them she said nothing whatever, and always
awoke of her own accord. Night having commenced,
62
she fell into a slumber, during the continuation of which
she spoke : but in the very beginning mentioned, that her
Guide was not present, yet that she would be able to
make disclosures, relative to several worldly objects and
concerns, but as the brilliant lights she did perceive, also
at intervals changed to darkness, it was her desire that
her statements in this situation, might not be taken as in
fallible, inasmuch as some of them might be erroneous.
But about eight o'clock she became so strongly enlight
ened, that she demanded Hymns to be laid on her stomach.
-
which she would read herself. Judging every thing that
passed around her, so accurately, although wrapped in a
profound slumber, her wishes were complied with.-
First the Hymn No. 4l9, from the Wirtemberg Hymn
book , " To the life I shall penetrate, for which myself
God did create, &c. , was laid on her stomach, and after
this, No 436 from the same, " On God and not my own
advice, my fortune I will build, &c. She herselt dhl
not suggest, that these hymns might be Jairfupon her, nov
had she ever committed them to memory ; both were
read by her with so great a solemnity and emphasis as t«
excite admiration. Then a piece of writing was laid on
her stomach, which was entirely unknown, which she al
so read with great gravity and readiness, without any
light, but altogether in the dark ; but what was the most
remarkable is this, that she always directed her book to
that part of her stomach, by means of which she did see
She then arose from her bed, remaining asleep, seated
herself ill a daik spot, and required, that a watch should
be laid on her stomach, when she would distinctly tell
the relative positions of the hour and minute hands;
both of which proved correct to a hair.
Althong-h these occurences w£re striking, yet it was
still more so, that she knew, what was spoken of her. in
an adjoining house, during this her situation, she recog
nised in the same manner every one, who at this time of
the night approached the house, and could mention the
person by name, even before he entered the room. In
conclusion she stated the thoughts of tine and all in the
most distinct manner then soon after she awoke, but
83
was so very weak, that she had to be carried to bed, and
knew not the least of all she had performed.
On the lst. December, at two o'clock in the afternoon,
she said, that she now had to retire to bed, as a great
weakness overcame her. After a little while she fell
asleep, which was taken by every one for a natural sleep,
having predicted no journey for this day. Half an hour
having elapsed, the attempt was made to awaken her, but
it was impossible to rouse her. Then her brother was
called, with whom she stood in communion, to whom she
made answer, the moment she was spoken to, and it was
then ascertained, that her Guide was not present, during
this trance.
Meanwhile a person entered the room, to whom she
immediately correctly stated the last occupation she had
attended to, before she left her dwelling, and then com
mended the Hymn for her comfort :
"He that to God's kind rule does trust, &c." but
especially the second verse thereof, which runs thus ;
" Of what avail is eur sorrow,
" Of what avail are our groans,
" Of what avail that every morrow,
" Renews our sighs and troubled moans'?
'
" Our fate by them we wont relieve,
* But make it worse by our grief." *
Meanwhile some strengthening viands were sent to her
by afemale friend, of which she ate but very little, whilst
asleep, but in a short time said, that what she had eaten
did hinder her to see clearly, because she had swallowed
two cherry-stones in the victuals.
After seven o'clock, although asleep, she arose from
her bed and seated herself upon a chair; with her eyes
wide open, directed upwards, having a staring and death
like appearance, and her eye lids without any motion
•This person had a family affliction, which terminated
to her satisfaction, as had been predicted to her by th«
Somnambulist.
-1
whatever. She was then asked, how long she would re
main in this situation ? Whereupon she said t
" Precisely at ten o'clock I shall awaken."
She then visited some of her relations abroad and ac-
*
quaintatices in the neighbourhood, and stated the domestic
employments, the former and the latter were then en
gaged in. Strict enquiries were made in relation there
to. Some individuals could remember that, what she had
stated, had happened, and confirmed the same, others but
partially, a period of time having since intervened.
The moment the clock struck ten, and when she awoke
were the same ; when she awoke she said :
"lam very tired, take me to bed."
During the night she had a very tranquil repose.
Third Journey into Jupiter.
The 2d December, she performed her third journey into
Jupiter ; during her second journey she had mentioned,
that precisely a quarter before one o'clock she would lie
down, which happened so to a minute. Having received
her guide, she declared that this time she would perform
the journey thither in but eight minutes, Approaching
the city, to which time she travelled, she commenced to
speak thus :
" The further, the handsomer ! The name of this city
s Gidon ; the gate, that leads [into
it,
is
again beau
tiful. How much
I
desire, that but one of those
now present, could cast
a
glance on
it
and at the city, but
I
know that to the eye of a mortal
it
would be quite in
sufferable
;
I
can hardly bear their splendor and brillian
cy. The pavement
is
composed of large flakes of stone,
of
a
bright red colour, well joined into each other
;
in the
other cities
it
consisted of flakes of stone, partly of
a
white, and partly of
a
yellowish colour. In this city
I
again perceive no inhabitants, my Guide tells me that
none dare stay, when instruction
is
given, nor does any
85
one choose to absent himself, and that for this reason, the
cities are so vacant, but that when the lessons are ended,
every one returns to hi.s dwelling, that every thing has it*
appointed time, although my ttuide does add : in eter
nity there is ho longer any reckoning by time. Nor have
I as yet noticed in all the cities, through which I
have passed, anv watches or clocks ; nor is there any
need thereof, lor here it is quite different, in as much as
night never lowers on the blessed : sleep overcomes none,
for every thing like human infirmity has ceased here"
" Now I have already passed through the city ; now I
mi again conducted into a building situated without,
whi- h is called the .Meeting hall, a name, which the for
mer also bears ; the bjilding itself is more than beautiful $
1 have, from within the interior to ascend five and twenty
steps b Tore I can enter the meeting hall. lam intro
duced into the Hall, which again excels the former in
beauty, it is very high, and every twentieth pace chande
liers appear to be suspended, but they are none, (because
candles are here needless,) notwithstanding they reflect a
strong l":j>ht and brilliancy. Here also, six teachers are
appointed, they wear crowns, that are all equally beauti
ful; their faces and garments shine with clearness j
the blessed too, who are receiving instruction, wear
crowns, with this difference, that they are obviously
smaller than those worn bv the teachers. The number
also of those present, is by no means large, they do not at
all set *ery close to each other."
She was asked the reason of this ? To which she re
plied : " The greater the state of bliss, the smaller m
the number of tlvo blessed."
She was then asked : What the employment of the bless
ed reallv was ? To which she answered : " They actually
now commence singing the hymn, composed by the noble
Starke, which is to be found on page 487 of the older,
and page 459 of the newer edition."
"Ml unite in saying, there
.< Is joy in Heaven above,
'' Who palms and crowns, theft always wear,
" And garments bright, wove by eternal love.
86
*( Oh ! ho\v happy are we here !
" Comfort is us always near ;
" Of anxiety we are free,
'' And here exists no misery, &c.
After this she continued :
" The harpers stand elevated and wear crowns, like
the learners. I have heretofore already been asked, how
many strings there are upon a harp, I count ten of them ;
but they are more than beautiful ; the singing and music
surpass all human comprehension."
"Just now i have asked my Guide: how it happens
that my spirit can wander abroad here, whilst my- person
walks tlnis about on earth, or reposes on a bed ! To
which I received the following answer : because you still
wander about bodily, and in the terrestrial world it cannot
be otherwise ; all the blessed are dressed according to the
degrees of felicity they have attained, of the gradations
whereof there is an immense number { thus will jau a/so
be dressed, if you shape your course of life accordingly,
as well as your actions and deeds: As I lead you higlier,
so I also appear to him in a corresponding manner, if I
had exhibited myself to you, as I do now, it would have
been insufferable to you, because you then would not
vet have been qualified therefor. * If I had millions of
tongues, H would be impossible for me, to describe all the
glory, that has been shown to me. My Guide tells me,
that to an intuitive vision of God I shall not arrive, that
the indulgence to be led into the city of God, the New
Jerusalem, and to be permitted to see some of the ser
vants of God, amounts to a great deal; that he himself
has not yet seen God, it beisg a great favor, to be per
mitted to see only the city, and to get into communion
..with the servants of God. But this 1 am by no means so
to understand, as if God was not Love in the highest
sense ; but that from his sanctuary all commands are
issued, and the lowest and most despised are not unknown
to him ; that all worldly governments? however absurd,
are tolerated by him and eventually lead to au excellent
*
Compare this with page 9 . . ; ..
87
result. That it would one day make a mighty difference
to the learned and unlearned, in eternity to arrive at a"
knowledge nf those counsels, that appeared cruel to them
when only they will obtain a glimpse of the wise govern
ment of God, Ah! added my Guide, I cannot elucidate
the matter further to you, what I have said must suffice
for the present. I have entreated my Guide, by all
means to bring me soon home, but ne tells me, that lam not
yet fit, that I am not yet regenerated ; he refers me to
the Gospel, asking me, whether I do not know that it is
written there thus: " Except a man be born again, he
cannot see the kingdom of God."
She then turned to her brother, with whom she stood
in communion, with the following words :
" By all means take that well to heart, which you hear
from me, for you incur a double responsibility."
Then she resumed her discourse as follows :
" My Guide tells me ; God aims at a complete salva
tion ot every one, but this must be preceded by real re
pentance, conversion and regeneration, unless man has
first underwent this change, it is impossible. No matter
how great the number of persons that perish, every one
is lost by bis own fault. "There is not a hurtran being,
especially amongst those, to whom the word of God is
revealed, who does not often receive a gracious call in
many ways, and by different means, but he that rejects
and will not listen to tha same, must take the responsi
bility, lie .assured, that mankind will after death be
made most vividly sensible ot this, whereby they will be
come their own accusers. Those that now judge me,
with so much derision and contempt, will learn by their
experience, that I have spoken the truth. Not those
will hereafter be my judges, but God is the judge of my
cause. God is certainly a God of mercy, but his justice
stands as it were in equipoise with his compassion.
Only by a serious and firm adherence to a living faith
in the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, joined by
a sincere repentance, conversion and subseqnent regener
ation, can salvation be gained. The Son of God is th«
only and sole mediator and intercessor between God and
man."
" .
i . -'* "' '
88
Then she was asked whether there are also any stars
beyond the sun f to which she replied :
"Yes undoubtedlv, an uncountable number, even in a
fixed star, far beyond the sun, is the New Jerusalem, where
in fact, God has his abode ; the greatness of God is quite
inconceivable and incomprehensible, for every star has its
inhabitants and is a world. If mankind would but in
Rome degree conceive the greatness of God, or endeavor
to comprehend it, they would melt with humility from a
sense of veneration for the grandeur of God ; the earth is
to be deemed as nought in comparison with the whole
creation of God, yet notwithstanding all this is the love
of God towards us of the human race so great! — Manjr
millions of men, as 1 have once already said, may die
blessed, yet will they not arrive at a vision of God j not
withstanding they are eternally happy* for they are, sa
tiated already "ith the grace of being what they are, and
the grace, which is vouched sate to them is infinite, con
stantly renewed and still in a rising degree."
"Not before the great day of judgment Jehova, who
is, was, and is to come, will show himself to those that
are sentenced to eternal damnation as well as to the bles
sed j to be sine to the former as a strict and just judge,
for their torture is increased by the reflection, that they
might be as happy as those that are really blessed, for
this thought torments them to all eternity, and an un
speakable number of those will be accused, that have
contributed to this condemnation."
Then she was asked, whether not already the bodies
of such have arisen, that did die in the Lord ? After a
short pause she replied :
" My guide says, that at the time the Son of God yield
ed his life unto death for a sinful world, the bodies of
several saints had risen from their graves, but that, from
that period no similar case was known to him, but that
he must declare, that God does infmitely much, which is
iiot equally revealed to all the blessed, or perhaps never
may be made known them, that he has answered many
of my questions, concerning which he himself had to get
information -ere he could have given nie an answer and
requisite advice, and that this had been done, on account of
89
his own good will and pleasure. —My guide tells me s tell
the inhabitants of the earth that the resurrection of hu
man bodies, in whatever way they may have yielded, or
been forced to surrender their lives, is postponed to the
impending great day of judgment, when God will sound
his trumpet, which undoubtedly will waken all, and the
Son of God approach with a host, commensurate with
his greatness and grandeur. —My guide tells me alse,
that those who in this world were aflicted with bodily in
firmities, such as blindness, humpbuckedness, lameness,
deformity, etc. will cease to be so in the other world,
(but only if saved,) because every imperfection cease*
there."
She now became silent, and at the i:is(.-.nce of a %ery
well disposed person, the question was put to her, wheth
er every person has his guardain angel ? Alter a little
while she said :
"My guide says, God suffers his sun to rise over the
good and bad, so also has his all seeing eye, every one un
der his own supervision, but this you must not so under
stand, says my guide, that this being the case, no misfor
tune can happen. Unfortunate accidents or what are
considered as such by mankind do occur, being ordered
by God, they lead to an excellent result, if even thev
should prove actual judgments, whether their extent be
great or smatL Then there are again misfortunes per
mitted by a special dispensation of God, for man is able
in many things to exercise his own will, and then there
are such, whore men, as it were wantonly, incur a disas
ter, bec.isse they will make no use of that reason, which
was given to them by God,"
" In order to answer the question, which has been put,
1 must say, that in the first place chihlnn without excep
tion have their guardian angels and sentinels, adults
ami old people have them. likewise, those on the contrary,
who deny a God, and consequently do not also acknow
ledge an immortality of the soul, cease to have a special
guardian angel, because they are no longer deemed
worthy of one."
After a short pause she said :
"A person in the hall looks upon me with an air
8»
90
of peculiar affability —I cannot speak to her, and also do
not know her very well ; I will ask my guide who she is;
my guide tells me, she is Barbara liauer of Weilht\m<
who died in the seventeenth year of her age, of a long
protracted consumption, and was purified in the erueibl*
of misery."
"Now I am led out of the hall and my return begins?
\ have this time been much interrupted by questions and
the giving of answers. Alter the Hymn which I have
mentioned, I was generally but looked at by the teach
ers and learners; the former had a great deal of conver
sation with my guide, which has also happened formerly;
but I regret, that I did not understand, what they said;
it isa rare occurrence, that spirits of my description ap
pear here, but all beheld me with the same love and plea
santness, and were delighted with me."
"On my return I am again conducted through a gar
den, which again surpasses the former in beauty in every
thing ; as it respects, what are called flowers, trees anci
walks, they nearly resemble the former. A small herb
is again shown to me, which also grows in our garden,
but only the leaves of it can be used as a remedy ; my
guide is by no means a friend to any thing, that has tlvo
name of being terrestrial and it is only by great solicita
tion, that I can obtain a knowledge thereof."
She stated with great exactness the spot, where It
grew, but reserved to herself the indication of its use. —
After this she was asked, whether that be true, which is
predicted by naturalists, that our Germany in particular
is again threatened with inundations? After a little pause
she said :
Yes, some of minor extent will soon happen, and in
some quarters a great storm, next summer, the particulars
of which I will state on my next journey, during which t
shall be conducted on a mountain."
Then she said to, her brother, who stood in commu
nion with her :
" Put your ear to my lips^nd then continued : Tov
morrow at half past twelve o'clock I shaH again fall
asleep, but do not inform more than but a few persons ot
it ; after the paroxysm I have had to day, 1 shall be
91
attcked by twenty more, (luring which I shall now and
then speak, and again recover from them, but after then
I shall become very weak.'*
Immediately after* this sleep fended;
Occurrences after this Journey*
As she had predicted, so it happened ; scarcely had
she partaken of some very light soup, when she had be
come awake, that one paroxym after another overcame
her, when her eyes most generally remained open, and
quite motionless ; she neither moved herself backwards
nor forwards, and her eye-lids were quite stiff. In thr»
situation she not only knew every person that approached
her, but she also told every one, what he was doing, and,
likewise stated the thoughts of several persons present
with the greatest exactness.
All at once she said :
"There is a person in this company who is very thirs
ty, which is occasioned by the victuals she has eaten at
dinner.''
Then she arose quite refreshed from her bed, put on
her shoes herself, without noticing any person, took from
the cupboard a pitcher with her left hand, and the key of
the cellar with her right, and went with quick step*
towards the cellar, she then opened the lock of the same
with great dexterity, and filled her pitcher with cider,
also secured the spigot of the barrel, locked the cellar
door well, took the key, and on her return laid it in its
proper place, then warmed the beverage in a vessel ot
warm water, took a pint-glass and filled it more than one
half, with this remark : "for women we are not in the
habit of pouring out so much into a glass," and then pre
sented it to the thirsty person, with all the grace of due
politeness; in the same minute she laid herself down again
on her bed and soon after awoke. Coming to her con
sciousness, and being told what she had done in her sleep,
92
she wxs greatly astonished, unable as she was, without
aid to reach her own chamber.
As soon as she had finished her remarks, she again re
lapsed into tits of weakness and sleepness. New experi
ments were then made; one person took this article into
his hands, the other another, as for instance, money,
keys, ribbons, &c, and in such a manner, that she could
not observe those, that did so, the same having always
been concealed without the chamber, wherein she was
lying, when she not only most accurately stated, what
each article was, but also told each time exactly to whom
it belonged. She again caused watches to be laid on her
Stomach, and stated the respective hours, minutes and
seconds. But as soon as she appeared to get into tho
dark, she said :
''Truly I do not see quite clearly, and therefore re
main silent." .,-
During her sleep she also got up several times from
bed and heated herself on chairs in the room ; but when
the awoke, she was unable to return to her bed. But
when the four last paroxysms were comvng on, she said
every time, that she was becoming weaker, after predict
ing the duration of the same to a second ; having over
come the last, she exclaimed ?
" God be praised! now they are past!"
Then she took some light nourishment, but was unable
Xo leave her bed ; during the night she slept and in the
morning was again so much refreshed, that shecould aris*,
and dress alone, without the help of any other person,
but complained of great debility, otherwise of no ailment.
Fourth Journey into Jupiler.
On the Sd oT December the fourth journey into Jupiter
came to pass, which she again accomplished in eight
minutes, and then began to sppak as follows ; ,
"My path at first leads through a forest, the tre«i
93
whereof stand quite in order; at the top they sprejd asun'
der, and then close together like an umbrella.
She was asked, whether there were any animals there,
to which she replied :
" No, in Ceres anil Uranus, says my guide, I shall find
animals, -but none of those, that as happily defunct,
came over IVo-n our earth. My guide tells me that men
also, commit great sin against animals, especially such ai
are created tor their benefit, and thereby do incur a
great responsibility,"
" The forest I passed soon ; I am now on my way on
a plain towards the mountain, which is not far off. — Now
1 have to ascend
it,
it
has
a
height of 260 steps, on both
sides of which the railings are erected because the moun
tain
is
steep, and the path again verv narrow, but the steps
and railings are again most beautiful. The mountain
ia
surrounded by the most delightful garden*,"
Then she was asked the name of the mountain
?
"
It
is
called jithaufttl, she said "its figure
is
oval, and
all around
it
stand frees well arranged in avenues, again
meeting above, and through each avenue Itads a narrow
path all the walks, are covered with a brilliant green
sward, glistening like precious stones, yet they are not
Stich,
it
being easily seen, that they ate but paths.''
Then she was askeil, whether she did see no blessed
spirits wandering about the mountain
?
to which she
answered
:
" Not now, but my guide tells me, that they olten as
cend
it,
and frequently walk around it, coming as they
do, from various parts of Jupiter.
I
have reached its
apex,
if
I
could but always remain here
;
its summit
level contains about half an acre. From hence
I
see ma
ny cities and forests, but no mountain."
She was then asked, whether on this Star there wero
no oceans
?
to which she replied
:
" No there are upon
it
some small lakes, but the water*
thereof stand still
;
during one of my journeys thither
I
shall pass bye one. — Now
I
have to leave the mountain,
by order of my Guide, thence
I
am led into
a
garden,
situated below at the foot of the mountain, in which small
herbs are again shown to me, which r- will have to
94
gather, on the spots, I shall point out to him." Not only
the place, but every tiring around the herbs, she des
cribed so distinctly, that not only those, who heard her,
but particularly also the persons, who went along in
search of the herbs, were greatly astonished. For this
purpose they had to go four times, and each time on their
return had to lay the herbs, that had bee.i b ougV, o i her
stomach, that she might judge whether they were of the
right kind. Having then pronunced the whole of them
genuine, she said :
" Gather of these in season, as many as possible, and
dry them, but each separately, but not upon a stove, by
which they would lose much of their virtue ; of some the
It-aves are only used as a decoction; vthen I slr.ifl
visit the planets Saturn and Uranus, as lung since intim
ated, then will I indicate the use of each of them re-'
spectively. This night we shall have a storm, which w ill
. be followed by rain'and snaw."
No preson anticipated such a change of weather, but it
actually occurred. Respecting the inundations and
great storms, which were predicted, she said :
" But they will not happen yet very soon, not before
the months of December l833, and January l834, will
the storms become very violent, and in many places
cause considerable damage."
She then continued to speak of her own accord, as
follows :
" In the regions of the blessed there is never any win
ter nor storm, the climate in one is like that in another,
all equally beautiful and agreeable. The difference to
be sure, between the habitation of the blessed and that
blackish earth, upon which we dwell, is so immeasurably
great, that no comparison whatever can be drawn be
tween them."
She then was asked, whether from Jupiter she could
also look into the Sun ? to which she replied :
This is impossible for me, from this place, because for
the present his splendor would be insufferable to me, but
you know I shall also go thither, the further I pursue my
journeys, the more delightful they become,"
Then she was asked, whether there are also any kings
95
er potentates in the stars, ruling and governing as it
were the whole ? After a short pause she said :
" Is tuis,not a pitiful question r—There is but one,
who rules and governs the whole and He is God, for it
is written in the souls of all the blessed, from the lowest
to the highest, and they hear it incessantly from their
teachers, in what consists the will of God.
I will give you a worldly example. If a prince or king
hud in his domains none but equally well disposed sub
jects, ''and all had conceive the same affection for him
and none offended the other ; how pleasant, don't ymi
think, would it be to live in such a country ? This is
but comparatively speaking quite a small type of the
state enjoyed by the blessed. For amongst them reigns
but one mind and one spirit. Charges and offences can
never take plaee there, else it would be no state of felici
ty. The teachers too deem themselves no better than
the learnsrs ; respect to be sure exists for them, but not
such as servile, but a regard, which is filial, which is a
real delight to them and as it were, impels them to
higher felicities. As it respects that which is the essence
and support of all in this world, God governs it as well as
the Universe ; let those, who ascribe every thing to
chance in nature, believe it or not, God is for all that,
not by a hair's breadth the smaller. For God is in his at
tributes, so says my Guide, to all eternity, incomprehen
sible and unsearchable, to the created angels as well as
to the defunct, and yet in the highest degree blessed
spirits, how should this be possible to the miserable,
short-sighted bags of maggots of this world, who all and
every one are but to be pitied, and not pitied only, but
on account of their boldness, to be lamented ; the judg
ments, which these human beings load upon themselves,
exceed comprehension, how blind and naked will they
one day stand exposed!"
My return soon begins, I have requested my Guide
to tell me, why he is this time in so great a haste and does
not remain longer with me, but he says, that by a prolonged
stay my body would become too much weakened, because
06
i shall after this sleep have to encounter ten more violent
paroxvsms.
During this discourse a person approached the house,
residing at a distance of two hours walk from hence,
and another person opened the dour of the house ; when
ncasked she said :
"N. opens the house door, for N. comes tome."
Having stated every thing so distinctl v, some of the in
dividuals present wanted tu learn cun's from her, but she
admonished th-'m to have patience, until she would visit
Saturn and Uranus. She then stated, that she would
be back in five minutes ; in conclusion she was asked,
in what manner her Guide had this time taken leave ?—
To w hich she replied :
*' He laid his hands on me, pronounced the benedic
tion over me, and dismissed me with the verse in the
Psalms : ''Mark the pei-feet man and behold the upright j
for the end of that man is peace."
Occurrences after this Journey.
After this trance she was seized bv ten cataleptic pa
roxysms of which however but the little which follows,
can here be related. During one of these spells she
went twice into the garden, situated behind the house,
in search of the herbs, which she had indicated. In her
second walk she led several persons to a spot, where ma
ny herbs were growing and ditected them to pluck them.
During her last attack, she stated several things, that
passed around her, which excited great astonishment, but
for certain reasons cannot here be narrated.
On the 4th ecember, she had four cataleptic par
oxysms, two of whieh passed in the forenoon, during which
she said little or nothmg of importance, at half past twelve,
she was overcome by the third, and she required to be
taken to bed. Having reposed upon it for a quarter of
97
an hour, she was asked, whether she would also speak, to
which she replied ;
"Now I am too weak, and tired, leave me alone for
about an hour, for my sleep will last until 4 o'clock,"
Being thus requested every one present withdrew to
the sitting room; the room, wherein she reposed, was
well locked-, so that no one could approach her, and the
speaking in the sitting-room took place only in low whis
pers. After the expiration of an hour, it was observed,
that she fetched her breath very deep and groaned, where
upon her brother, who stood in communion with her, was
desired to aik her, what was the cause of this j she an
swered somewhat angrily and hastily, and told ef every
one, not only what they had said, but also what they had
thought. Every one had to acknowledge, that, what she
had said, was perfectly true ; when she continued thus :
" The consequence of this will only be, that my sleep
will last four hours longer, and that I shall not awaken,
until the clock shall strike eight j had this not happened,
both paroxysms would have been over in four hours.
Then she became still until seven o'clock ; from this
time she asked frequently for a watch, which had to be
laid on her stomach, that she might be able to see, how
long she would yet have to struggle, each time she stated
the minute exactly and positively ; at half past seven
o'clock she said :
" Lay the evening prayer for this day upon my
stomach."
"She read the same from word to word ; turning the
leaf with the syllable, and always held the book towards
that part of her stomach, through which she obtained
light ; after this she read the hymn : " Commend thy
ways &c."
From seven to eight o'clock she told several important
truths, some of which have already been realized, but
which neither can, nor dare here be stated. Awakening
with the striking of the clock, at eight, she exclaimed ;
" God be praised, now it is past!"
She then took no further nourishment this day, nor did
9 .
98
she leave her bed ; during the night she enjoyed a tolera
bly refreshing sleep, and arose the next day with recruited
strength, but complained of slight weakness.
Fifth Journey into Jupiter.
On the 5th of December the Somnambulist performed
her fifth journey into Jupiter, which she again accomplish
ed in eight minufes. Having arrived there, she said :
"This country is quite level and beautiful, and on my
return I shall be conducted to a small lake. Around
the city, which I visit to-day, there are beautiful gar
dens, in which trees and the most beautiful flowers are
growing, the walks are again narrow, but they shine so
beautifully, as if they had been strewed over with filings
of silver. The name of this city is Juda, the gate,
through which I enter is very spacious, immensely high
and has four towers, which shine like gold ; the street
in the city, in comparison with the gate is very narrow,
the buildings are all alike handsome afld of considerable
height, every thing is perceptibly handsomer, than what
it was in the city I last visited ; the gate, through which
I pass in going out is perfectly like that through which I
entered, when I was introduced. I am this day again
conducted into a meeting or lecturing-hall ; the building
in which it is located, is very large, the hall is in the up
per story ; in the interior of the building I have to ascend
a stair-case of not more than twenty steps ; the stair case
as well as the railing are again much handsomer than
the former, as well as the hall, which is very long. —
What appear to be eight chandeliers, are therin suspend
ed but tliey are none, and form, as my Guide tells me, an
ornament to the hall. The number of those therein now
present, is not great, and I also see here four teachers ,
they are actually singing and perform music, both not
99
Very loud, but of delightful euphony, the hymns which
they chaunt, as well as the melody I can however not
state. The brightness of the blessed here, is already
extremelv great, if there was an acquaintance here from
our world, I should not recognise him if my Guide should
not inform me. The crown, worn bv my Guide, is some
what larger than that of the -blessed, who are here pre
sent, but again a little smaller than those of the teachers."
Here she was asked : where then the region occupi?U
by the children was ? to which she replied :
"This is in the sun, there I shall also meet with the
greatest multitude, for the region occupied by the chil
dren, constitutes a h'.rge part of the kingdom of God,
nav an incomparably larger one than that in the stars."
Alter a silence «f
'
a lew minutes duration, during
which she reposed in a reclining pasture, as if her spirit
had left her, she again resumed :
"Now I have to quit the room, and am conducted to
a sheet of water, as I have already intimated. It looks
like a sea, stands quite still, sparkles with light and clear
ness, and I cannot cempare it with any water on earth-
A bridge lesds over this sea, over which I am conducted,
on each side [ count twenty pillars, each of them about
tour feet thick, no alabaster is so, clear and shining as
these are ; they represent the most beautiful gates, but
are pone, the pavement constructed over them is moie
than beautiful. The passage over the bridge is so wide,
that five parsons can walk alongside of each other, it is
very long, but in the centre somewhat elevated. The
lake forms a beautiful circle and is surrounded with a
wall, which shines like a precious stone ; on the outside
of the wall, trees are standing all around like poplars all
of equal height, and in the same manner over the bridge,
only not quite su close to each other, as around the lake,
the trunks of the trees and their branches and foliage are
more than beautiful and exude the most delightful scent,
the lake is called Bethsebada, it appears to me not to be
very deep, for I can see, by reasoa uf the clearness of
the water, quite to the bottom.
Then she was asked ; whether she did see no fishes in
it ? to which she replied ;
100
" No, because the blessed, who are here, require no
nourishment."
Then she was asked, whether the bodies of the blessed
are transparent ? to which she made answer :
" No, but this is a fact, that their faces and garments
shine more or less according to the degree of their fe
licity."
After this she was asked, in what language her guide
was in the habit ot speaking with her ? to which she
replied : ,
'iIn the German language."
Then the qnestion was pat ; whether the unhappy
could also perform journeys to the blessed, and vtce
verm, the blessed to the unhappy ? to which she replieti ;
" No—adding altera pause —but well may the damned,
so says my Guide, cast glances at the state of bliss,
which however,is of but short duration, thereby increasing
their misery and wretchedness, but not diminishing the
same ; which is so lo be understood, that the recollection-,
that they might be in the same situation with the blessed,
increases their torment."
Then she was asked : whether the region of the un
happy and the damned is beneath or above the earth, to
which she answered- :^
" Those, that were shown to me, were above the earth,
but in no stars ; God has every where dominions and
dwelling places which mankind can have no idea of
whatever. Now I am yet led through a delightful copse
of wood ; as soon as I shall have passed through
it,
nr
return will begin, which
I
shall again complete in five
minutes."
During her return she was asked, whether the planet
Jupiter, which she was then visiting, was also called by
that name in the other world r* to which she replied
:
" No, its name
is
here Aathan —and thus continued
to speak.
I
have now three more journeys to perform
thither, then twelve into Ceres, namely every day one,
* It
is
to be regretted, that amongst the rest this en
quiry has not been pursued further.
10I
theh, alter some short relaxations shall I perform two and
three journeys in one day, otherwise w oultl the time, du
ring which I shall remain in this state, not prove suffi
cient.
She then took leave from her Guide, observing that
after this trance she should have eight more paroxysms,
and then said to her brother :
" Now waken me in the name of God."
Occurrences after this Journey.
After this journey she had eight additional paroxysms
each of which however was not of lung duration; she
made disci ismts respecting several worldly subjects,
which proved entirely as she had stated.
On Earth too exists a world of spirits.
Of her discourses on!y the following can find room. —
Murderers, whose deeds were not avenged, punished and
brought to light in this world ; and again such, as have
narrowed the limits of their neighbours and removed
land-marks, hover about here and there, and particular
ly over the spots, where they perpetrated their enormi
ties, but not always over and about them, but only at
certain times ; from this they obtain no alleviation of
their punishment, but it always tends, on account of their
wanderings, to increase their tortures. Those, too wan
der about, who, from ill-will, envy and avarice have hid
den worldly treasures, for "where their treasure is,
there is also their heart yet are their wanderings not
so painful to them, as to those, mentioned before. This
may ever so much be denied or disputed by men, yet it
is undoubtedly a fact.
" But in nothing do men deceive themselves more,
than in regard to apparitions, by far not every thing, that
in respect to them, is related, is to be taken for granted.
It is however, a very wise dispensation of Providence,
that men's eyes are so often blind-folded, that they do
102
see by far lest, than what passes around them in etear
day-light, else would many a one go about the whole
day with fear and trembling."
Sixth Journey into Jupiter.
At half past 12 o'clock in the afternoon of the 6th of
December, she performed her sixth journey into Jupiter;
having received her guide, she said, that she would ac
complish this journey also in eight minutes.
Two days before this trance, two learned gentlemen
asked, whether they could be permitted to put questions to
her; in presence of her brother, who stood in communion
willi her, but in the absence of all other persons, those
questions were addressed to her, during her journey
thither, and of these, the following ean here find room :
namely, what may be the reason, that such large and
strong bones, called mammoth bones by the learned, are
found, in Europe as well as in Asia, yet no human bones?
This question she answered after a short pause as fol
lows :
• " My guide tells me : at the period of the deluge, there
were animals in the world, that are no longer to be found,
and in order to save their lives, fled to the highest moun
tains, and having met their death even there, their
bodies remained exposed, and were hurried- under the
rubbish. Human bones and bodies eould net well re
main on the surface of the ground, because they were too
tight, these were washed away, and for the most part
trarried in the ocean."
"The desire of knowledge of these individuals having
been satisfied, the rest of the persons present were re-ad
mitted, and immediately after she said :
"I just row approach a city, which is- again hand
somer in every point of view, than the former, and is
called Laban. My guide shines more brilliant to-day
than he did yesterday, his voice resounds with clearness.
In three minutes from this, I shall have passed through
the city, and I am again led into a building without the
103
city, and in
it,
into
a
lecturing hall
$
there
I
have again
to ascend
a
flight of twenty steps, before
I
can enter the
hall. Here again
I
meet with none but human spirits,
who again have their instructors, but
I
have to regret,
that their number constantly diminishes.
I
have depict
ed to you the felicities heretofore shown to me, as more
than splendid and delightful, —to describe these,
I
want
strength and words, for their attractions surpass all
imagination. The music and singing are quite divine
;
if a mortal could hear but one sound of them, he would
taint away
?
ah
!
what do
I
say,
it
would be quite insuf
ferable to him. For a hundred thousand millions of
worldly luxuries, wouldInot exchange an hour of this.
To be sure all the states of felicity abound with glory,
magnificence, peace and contentment, but with this dif
ference, that the one
is
still greater, and more delightful
than the other, if this were not the case, there would be
no improvement !"
After
a
three times repented ejaculation of the inter
jection
;
" Ah !" she exclaimed with solemnity
:
" Why do mankind not incessantly strive to be saved
!
—my guide tells me, the felicities in the planet Nathan
(Jupiter) are of
a
pretty high degree, how much will you
be surprised, when you shall visit the sun, and the New
Jerusalem ."'
Then she was asked, whether her guide could, of his
own accord undertake to lead her to the places, she had
mentioned, or whether he had first to obtain permission
to do so
?
"My guide can do nothing whatever of his own accord,
he had to bring permission from God himself, through
his servants, for every journey he has performed with me.
Just now my guide tells me, that no Somnambulist has
yet been permitted, to cast
a
glimpse at the New Jeru-
.
salem, and that
I
am the first, to whom this great favor
shall be granted."
From
a
peculiar motive, the question was put; where
the first martyr Stephen was
?
to which she replied
r
" He
is
in the New Jerusalem, awaiting his fellow ser
vants, although he also, attends the throne of God."
l04
Then she was asked, whether it would be agreeable,
if Doctor Justinus Kmnier of ll einsberg should visit her,
to whick she replied :
"This would exactly suit me, as he is the man, who
has a knowledge of, and understands a case like mine. —
Now I commence my return, cooh alter I shall awaken,
and 1 shall be attacked by eight additional paroxysms,
during which however my guide will again be with me,"
As soon as her guide had withdrawn, she said to her
brother :
'' Now waken
.\Yhen she awoke, she was again all love and friendli
ness, and only complained of slight debility.
Occurrences after this Journey.
Half an hour after this truly cataleptic sleep, the first
paroxvsm ensued, the duration of which she had predicted,
as well as that of every subsequent one. Her father and
brother, who stood in communion with her, were just at
that time, on a visit at the house of a friend and neigh
bour; she stated the occupations and conversations, they
there had been engaged in, quite distinctly, and from
word to word, and the correctness of her statement was al
so literally confirmed by a witness, who had both seen and
heard all that had passed ; this person could not realize
the possibility of her performance ; hereupon she said :
"I come again into a daik place, which fills me with
terror and anxiety. —Ah! a person approaches me that
belongs to the first class of the unhappy, whom I knew so
well, whilst he yet was a sojourner amongst us; he is de
termined to seize my right hand. —At length I have to
extend it to him. —O! howl pity him!"
She was then asked, who that person was ? whereupon
she said :
" Such questions refrain from asking we—and nertr
indulge a thought in guessing, whether it be this or that
I05
person, for I shall never name him, no matter what price
be offered me. This unhappy being believes, that if I
but reach him my hand, it will bring him relief, he can
speak with me, and desires me to intercede in his behalf
with my Guide, that he may the sooner b* liberated from
his unhappy situation. But I can not give him the least
comfort, because the time once fixed admits of no alter
ation. I can assure nobody, that the prayer of the living
for those, that died in a state of unblessedness, can ever
be efficient."
During her two subsequent paroxysms two similar ap-
aritions were mentioned by her, with this additional re
mark however ?
" That the latter, yet entertaining hope, were some
what more consoled, than the others were."
The the last paroxysms were of short duration, and
nothing occurred during the same, which it would be
worth while here to record.
Seventh Journey into Jupiter.
On the 7th of December, at half an hour past twelve,
she performed her seventh journey to Jupiter ; after re
ceiving her Guide, she stated, that this too would ba
completed in eight minutes. Having arrived there, she
said :
I now come to a Gate and thence again into a city
named Bethel; this again excels all the others in splen
dor and beauty."
Then she was asked, by whom the cities, that had been
shown to her, had been built and laid out ? To which
she replied with great gravity :
" Is this not an absurd and miserable question ? God
himself is the architect, of the whole of them ; for what
ever he saith, that comes to pass, and what he commands,
is called into existence. Neither the understanding nor
the powers of man, nor of angels would suffice, to con
struct such an edifice ; no terrestrial handiwork,'howev
IOC
er scientifically executed can ever be compared with
one that is of heavenly structure."
" I am now led again into a meeting or' lecturing-h nl
without the city. The windows shine so brilliantly that
I cannot look upon them ; I have within again to ascend
a stair,case, of thirty steps, before I can enter the Hall.
This hall is again not full, and could contain many
more. The gradations of felicity constantly rise in per
fection ; of those that are here, I again know none, al
though they were living persons ; their forms quite rcsem -
bl e those of the human race, but the unearthliness of
their features renders every one of them incapable of
recognition. If I but were permitted, to tarry here a
long while, but my Guide is always in too great a haste ;
telling me, that he lias also to attend to his CHllin<r in the
Sun. Just now instruction is given by the teachers, but
the words pronounced by them, it is impossible for me to
repeat. This I observe well, that the learners have at
tained to great proficiency ; every thing here in eternity,
whether great or small, is quite different from what it ia
in our world, and I know not how I could make any com
parison, that would be intelligible : —Now the lessons
are ended and music and singing commence ; both are
again more agreeable and delightful, than the former
were; the hyinn has the melody —"Shining is the Chris
tian's innate life, \c. Oh, if I durst but stay here seve
ral days, willingly would I relinquish all meat and drink."
Then she again exhorted all her hearers in a most im
pressive manner, with the greatest earnest and diligence
to cultivate love, harmony and piety, because in the re
gions of the blessed, no hatred nor other passion, tending
to affect a state of felicity can exist.
Some other questions were about to be addressed to
her, but she said :
" Molest me now no longer, for it is painful to me,
when I observe a disposition to mislead me in the region
where I actually am ; for if I should attain the most ad
vanced age, I should be incapable to describe and to state
in its whole extent and magnitude, all the glory, which
this day has been shown to me, and which I behold, be
cause I should always be in want of such words, as would
107
be requisite to elucidate the same. Oh ! how great, in
finite and benign is God! When I awake, I pray you,
treat me with special indulgence, for a different treatment
I should not be able to bear. 1 have already to leave
the Hall and am led through a pleasaut little grove."
She was then asked, whether in it she did not perceive
any birds and other animals ? to which she replied :
" No, in Ceres 1 shall meet with animals, but none of
those that existed in our world, but such as were created
there. Now I have passed through the grove and my re
turn begins. I shall this day again fall into eight parox
ysms, which will last five hours, in some of them spirits
from the regions of darkness will appear to me, in hopes
that they shall the sooner be liberated therefrom, but they
will be disappointed."
^ - . „
Occurrences after this Journey,
What she had fortold during her return, came duly to
pass, soon after she awoke. Spirits, namely, that par
tially hover over this world, appeared to her ; speaking
of one of them, she said in one of her paroxysms :
"I shall this night, at about eight oxlock, be able to
see a person from my chamber-window, and in so doing
fall asleep —but the sequel I must refrain from mention
ing on account of the crowd it would raise. Not one of
you will be able to see him, but the course he will pursue,
I can positively inform you of. The person is a male,
who has hovered about this great while, and at certain fix
ed periods, shall yet for a long time have to hover about, for
he has murdered a child begotten in legitimate wedlock.
First his wife died in child-bed, and when she was buried
the child became a burthen to him, and being destitute
of all sense of religion, he killed it, pretending that the
child had also died. It is true he was suspected by some
of having committed this crime, but no legal investigation
108
Relative thereto was ever instituted , which is the reason,
that he escaped with impunity in this world, which is the
cause of his hovering about."
Beholding the person again from her window, at half
past 9 o'clock, who has just been described, she wanted
to call to him, but was suddenly deprived of her speech,
so as to be thereby disabled, to utter another sound ; she
then made signs, that she wanted to write, when paper,
ink and pen were put before her, when she signified that
she really did not see quite clearly, yet notwithstanding
she wrote quite legibly the following :
" My brother is to magnetise a glass of water by means
of seven strokes, and take three mouthfuls thereof, after
which I will drink of it, when
I
shall regain my speech.
'
This duly happened so, and immediately after sh*
said
t
" Before my Guide left me to-day, he told me, tlv
these apparitions too are beneficial to me, inasmuch as
am debilitated and rendered more capable thereby of see
ing more clearly." ...
When she was near awakening she exclaimed
:
" God be praised! this too
is
past
;
but now
I
am very-
weak, take me directly to bed."
Whereupon she had to be carried into it.
Eighth Journey into Jupiter.
On the 8th of December she performed her eighth and
last journey into Jupiter. Immediately after the arrival
of her Guide she said
:
that she requested this day by no
means to be molested with many questions,
it
being her
intention to state every thing of her own accord, what
she would be permitted to mention
;
observing at the
same time, that after this sleep twenty additional parox
ysms would befall her.
Having arrived in Jupiter at the time specified she
said
:
109
*"'Kow I again arrive at a gate,. the pillars whereof are
tof a blue shining colour, the city is called Israel; the
gate of the city again excels the former in superior and
admirable beauty. During my journey into the Moon
and Mercury, the cities that had previously been shown
to me appeared to me somewhat inferior, than these Ia9t
visited, but now the reverse is the case. The stones, of
which the pavement.is formed, are- as smooth as glass,
and of a purple redness ; the whole city is in a blaze of
light and has quite a divine aspect.
Now I approach the meeting-hall of the blessed. One
of the blessed comes to meet nie, and seizes my left hand .*
Now I walk as fast, as if I had wings. I have but ten
wore steps to ascend, in a few minutes I shall have reach -
' ed the top. With the angel, who accompanies me, I
cannot speak, but he is very friendly and affable to me.
''
Now I enter the Hall, and the guide, that accompanies
'
«ie quits me, he is a teacher and places himself at the
head ; now I will however ask my guide who he is.— It
is the deceased Henry Jung, called Stilling, ortha gtay
man, whom I have already mentioned iu my fourth jour
ney into Mercury t as a teacher in Jupiter. The teachers
I perceive enjoy a trifling superiority over the learn
ers, and are much nearer to God. In the centre of the
3 1 all stands a golden column, several chandeliers seem
also to be suspended but in reality are not such, serving on
ly as embellishments to the room, but do not illuminate the
same, for the Tiall itself is refulgent with light and clear
ness. The number of those present is again small in
comparison with the size of the hall, and y«t says my
Guide, there are blessed spirits here from all nations anil
religious denominations. There are people so foolish, as
to say where will God find room enough for all the people
thai have lived through all ages ; these are very silly
questions, for there is room enough and to spare, however
long the world may exist ; God never discontinues his
* Here she graspeJ both her Guide and the other
tightly.
t See Pa;je 45
10
II0
operations, nor ceases to form new creations. The lec
tures I have again not been able to comprehend, owing
to the language used —they are to me, who yet am dwell
ing in flesh, quite unintelligible. For the present the
lectures are at an end, and music and singing recom
mence. Both put me in a double transport of extacy,
they sing the hymn, which appears in the Wirtemberg
Hymn book, No. 274, of which the first strophe runs
thus :
" 0 God we praise thee and confess,
" That thou the only Lord
" And everlasting father art,
" By all the earth adored.
"To thee all angels cry aloud,
'' To thee the powers on high,
*. Both Cherubim and Seraphim,
" Continually do cry :
" Holy is our God.' holy is our Lord!
" Holy is our God! the Lord God of Hosts!
'' My stay here appears to me to pass too quickly, and
as if it had lasted but for a few moments. 1 rejoice too
much beforehand, at the approach of Christmas, then will
I stste the true time of the year, day and hour, when
Christ was born ; this festival is not celebrated by us on
the proper day. My Guide tells me: then shall I be
surprised to what glory I shall be conducted ; but until
then shall I grow still weaker than what I am already. —
At theoonclusion of my last journey thither, I shall also
be permitted to look down upon the earth. Now I am
taken through an admirably beautiful garden, again ac
companied by. two Guides, the flowers and trees are
lure inexpressibly beautiful, and the sweet scent they
exude, is more than refreshing ; but the walks are again
quite narrow,"
During this walk she again mentioned a small herb,
enjoining it on her brother, to pluck
it,
and distinctly in
dicating the spots, wherein
it
was growing, at the same
time remarking
:
that grape vines, cut fine, boiled, and
Ill
used as a foot bath, are very strengthening te the limbs.
Then she continued :
" I shall hereafter be also conducted into a drug-shep.*
Concerning witchcraft and the like, be sure to ask me
"no questions, for every such question, and all others that
are useless, I shall leave unanswered."
Being on the point of quitting the garden, she was yet
asked its name ? to which she replied :
" It is called Sodamna. Now I am permitted to look
down upon the Earth, it appears to me as if I looked
through a window, the size of it appears to ine not larger,
than that of a small ball, such as children usually play
with, and looks blackish ; I should not even mind
it,
if
my Guide did not particularly draw my attention to
it,
nor does
it
shine with any light, but the Moon does. Ju
piter appears to stand, as
it
were, in the centre between
our Earth 'abd the Sun, namely at a distance of eleven
millions of miles from the Earth and ten millions from th«
Sun. My Guide tells me, that from the Sun the Earth
will not appear to me larger, than the head of
a
large pin.
I
have already risen very high. Now my Guide
is
taking
leave, and on account of the great delight
I
enjoy, dis
misses me with the eleventh verse of the hymn No. l60
in the old Wirtemberg Hymn book, commencing with
the words —" Commend thy ways to God &c.
''
Happy thou! thou child of truth!
'' "With honour thou hast won
'' The crown of victory!
" Thy glorious thanks now rise
"To Him, who He Himself,
"Of palms the holy branches,
" Gives to thee, with his right hand
;
*' And thou,
if
faithful thou remain'st,
'' Wilt loud Hosannatis sing,
M To Him, who has at length
.*
Turned into joy thy misery!
Thus her journeys to Jupiter terminated.
»
This actually came to pass, but no further account
tan be given concerning it.
1l2
Occurrences after this Journey*
The paroxysms which she had foretold, occurred soot*
after she awoke, ajid at first only lasted from five to six
minutes ; during these she spoke very little, and on
ly of what happened around her* but that she stated all
correctly before she was seized with the ninth parox
ysm, she said that it would continue half an hour, which,
by watches taid upon hen, proved correct to a second. —
At the very commencement of it she said :
ltNow I will communicate something* which was dis
closed tome by my Guide, during my last journey, but
which discretion wisely taught me to keep secret a course
which was also countenanced by my Guide, because the-
concourse of people would haie become too great* al
though a great multitude will notwithstanding be present.
An unknown blessed spirit appears to me, who can speak
with me, I ask him who he is ? He answers : I am a.
near relation of yours, and partially of the same lineage
from which you are also in part descended, for your father
and my mother are the offspring of the same parents,. I
am George Goelz, who died in his 19th year. Oh! sur
rounded as ha is by glory acd brightness, I should
not have recognised h-im at all, hat! he not made himself
known to mo by name ; he tells me* that in my next
sleep which will not be a cataleptic paroxysm, I shall be
consecrated for my next journey by Henry Jung Stil
ling, for which reason I was also to-day accompanied in
to the Halt by hire, together with my Guide, andfrom it*
into the garden ;. I* said G- G. and your brothee Frede
rick appear during this act as witnesses, but soon after
it shall have taken place, Stilling will be removed into
the Sun. After this trance I shall ha.ve half an hour's
rest awake.
This followed in succession, and when past, the tenth
paroxysm actually befel her, but this, as well as those*
that had preceeded it were in reality cataleptic slumbers.
Soon after she burst into an extacy of joy, on account of
I13
the great grace and mercy, which were granted to her.
"Ah! she exclaimed, if I had but wings, to hasten into
th e embraces of those, that come to meet me."
Then she put her bed-ciothes in order, asked for an
apron, which she tied around herself sitting up in bed, and
when she had done so she said :
, » Now make room for me, for I must get out of bed,
the act will now commence."
Then quite strong she left her bed, took a carpet,
spread it out on the floor, and fell upon her knees. Then
with admirable awe she received Stilling, as well as the
other two witnesses, and tendered to each her hand with
great humility. The consecration commencing, from a
sense of true humility she prostrated herself on her face,
but immediately re-erected herself of her own accord,
and raised her hands folded to heaven, then she reached
her left hand to the witnesses, standing to the right and
left, but her right she extended to Slilti?tg, who stood be
fore her ; during this act she gave a sign, that the impo
sition of hands on her head was then taking plaee.—
When this was past she took leave from every one with
demonstrations of the deepest-felt humility ; when they
had parted from her, she rose of her own accord and
without any other person's aid, went to bed saying :
" The energetic words, pronounced over me by Stil
ling I am totally incapable of expressing. This act was
more than holy, I have thereby taken a most sacred ob
ligation, to remain eternally faithful to the triune God ;.
you will learn, that I am surely a true christian ; but do
not expect me to be so already, for that requires a longer
period. Stilling reached me a golden cup, from which I
twice drank the water of consecration,* which was ve
ry strengthening and delicious, and left a deep, deep im
pression on my soul ; this and the words penetrated
through my very bones and marrow."
She was then asked, why she had prostrated herself
with her face on the earth ? when she said :
* All the persons present perceived,. that slie was ac
tually swalluwing.
10*
114
" >fy inferiority and the great grace, that had been be
stowed on me, raused me to prostrate myself at the feet
of Stilling, but he would by no means suffer it, but imme
diately lifted me up with these words t "Such an act
of humiliation is alone due to, and acceptable by God."
I shall hereafter, when I visit another star, always be
re- consecrated ; my consecration, when I shall leave the
Sun on the eve of my entering the New Jerusalem, will
be the more solemn. Stilling was also somewhat of a
Somnambulist, and could always recollect what had hap
pened to him, I see a dovo living around me."
She made a molion with her right hand, as if she wan
ted to catch the dove, but it was impossible for her. Im
mediately after this she awoke and socn after the other
ten paroxysms occurred, each of which were of short du
ration, and passed without any particular disclosures,
when they were all past she said :
" Now I am very weak, permit me to rest;" and thcn>
she took. no further nourishment that day.
Ilrst Journey into Cera,
On the 9th of December at half past twelve she per
formed her first journey to Ceres, and in order to do so,.
required for it the formerly mentioned time of ten mi
nutes, to a second ; during her journey thither she related
the following :
'' To-day my guide told me something, which was a
great consolation to me and that I shall be permitted to en
joy the sabbath, that ( shall not have to endure, any pa
roxysm?, of which I am very glad. Besides the favor
will also bi; granted ir.e, to be allowed to look down upctu
the earth."
As soon as she had reached Ceres, she said :
'. M y journey thither is always very quick, and my re
turn still more to, but as soon as I have reached such \
bolr, and wander upon
it,
then my progress
is
nuciV
115
slower, else how should I be able to perceive any object
whatever? —Now I want yet two minutes to arrive at a
gate and in a city ; in this region I see no mountains,
the whole country around is perfectly level, but well do
1 discern some towns glistening at a distance, and also
some forests, which are not of considerable extent. The
town which I now enter, is called Giltiath j every thing
around me is again much more splendid and beautiful,
and I again lack words, to depict every thing, a* it here
actually is. On the gate, aad at the buiMings of the
city, little lowers are erected, which above are oval, and
shine with the greatest splendor. The city is long, but
the street is again not stall wide ; the pavement of the
city is of all possible colors, but the stones are so hand
somely fitted into each other, that it appears to me as if
the whole of them consisted of but one piece ; but this is
an illusion, because everyone of these stones reflects the
rays of its color, and the whole mass has so fine an effect,
that it cannot be sufficiently seen, and contemplated.
That which the houses are covered with, and would be cal
led by us roofs, seem above to be very flat, yet not quite
so, being; of a concave form, and shining most splendidly.
I am again quite unable, even if gifted with millions of
tongues, to describe the essence of the least of all these
beauties, therefore take it not amiss, if I never speak of
any thing else, but heavenly beauties, and do not became
tired of them. If any one of you could behold with the
quickness of a flash of lightning but one of the objects,
that were shown to me, such a person would sink to the
earth as if thunderstruck, therefore let no one take um
brage at me, for he would commit a great offence — (not
so much against me than against God,) should he censure
me on that account or perhaps even decry me as a fanatic.
/ must repeatedly acknowledge, and I am altogether in
capable of expressing bow great the Lord God is; for it
is impossible to all mankind united, to form the leajt
idea of the greatness of God."
"I now enter the meeting hall ; this too is again pretty
empty, not more than four teachers are present; they
are actually sinkmg a hymn, of which however I can
jjeithsr slate the melody nor the text, which is also ac
116
cempanied by the sound of harps ; having never seen any
other musical instrument. Teachers and learners shine ir*
no other light, than that of the sun, except with this dif
ference, that the farmer again distinguish themselves from
the latter by the size and brightness of their crowns.
The gracious looks, the harmony and reciprocal love
which are visible here, I am utterly incapable to express;
I walk about amongst them, in this my simple dress, anil
yet is every one affectionate and affable towards me only;
this I have to regret, that I must so soon take my
departure; and I should wish te be permitted to remain
but four days and four nights, (according to our method
of computing time,) with the blessed, during which
time I shouM certainly neither feel hunger nor thirst, for
with them an hour would appear to me shorter, than with
us a minute."
She was then asked, whether she knew none of tha
teachers present ? after a little pause she said :
" Hartman, the special councellor, issue of the Uach-^
ers here present the father holds his book of sermons in his-
hands, the others had been members of other religious de
nominations. I now quit the meeting hall, and shall be led
through a forest, in which I shall meet with birds,_ creat
ed by God, but which did not come over from our* world.
I require two minutes for my passage through the woods-
Now I see the birds, how they sing and whistle so de
lightful ! —their forms are small, and their plumage is
yellow and white; they are not at all frightened, for they
lly around me and my guide, I now and th«n want to-
catch one of them, but they always elude me ; I should
wish so much that I could be able to bring but one back
with me to the earth, and should certainly cherish it well,
but it is impossible. The forest is incomparably beautiful,
there being net a tree in
it,
the trunk of which
is
crooked,
and all stand inorder, and are of an immense- heighth
;
there are many walks in the woods, but they are all
very narrow. On the trees
I
see no fruit, many resem
ble poplars, yet do not belong to that species of trees,
for they are much more splendid and beautiful. Flow
ers too are here of the most superb kinds, and every
colour
;
I
am sorry, that
I
cannot name thei»; although
117
my guide tells me their names — I am unable to repeat
them. — Now [ am permitted to look down upon the
earth, if it had not again been pointed out to me, I should
once more have overlooked it) it again does not appear
larger to me than a whipping top, such as children play
with, and it looks blackish. The Karth is a dark body ;
with great sadness I already return hence, I should have
liked to remain here for a longer space of time ; in six
months I shall be back. I shall perform five more jour
neys, every day one, but afterwards two every day, for
three days in succession, but afterwards, when I shall
visit the other stars, it may be three and four journeys,
that I shall daily undertake, and on one day five. My
Guide enjoins it upon me, to abstain from all food, that
is loo strengthening and solid, because the more my body
be weakened, the better qualified shall I become,"
Durir.g her returtn he was asked, whether dancing bo
a sin ?—to which she replied :
" By dancing, says my Guide, no one has yet been
saved, but an unaccountable number have thereby been
\ost; no man dances with a man, nor any woman with a
woman. Think only of the sinful temptations, which
are thereby excited, how many have by that means lost
their innocence and health ; remember but, what the
apostle Paul in general terms tells you : "Be not like
those of the world." Dancing is, and always will be,
more or less a sin;''
As soon as her Guide had taken leave from her, she
laid to her brother.
" Now waken me."
When she had become awake she remained more than
half an hour in bed, but afterwards partook of but a little
light nourishment and conversed with those around her
until about nine o'clock in the evening, at which time
she voluntarily retired to bed, and during the night enjoy
ed an uncommonly tranquil repose,
118
Second Journey into Ceres.
On the 10th December at half past twelve she perform
ed her second journey into Ceres ; having accomplished
about one half thereof, she said :
"Near my Guide an unhappy spirit shows himself,
who fain would accompany us, and whose intention it is
impossible for me to determine ; he wants to take me bj
the left hand, but I do not give it to him."
Immediately after she laid her left hand upon her right,
with which she firmly grasped her Guide, and said :
" This uninvited guest had to retreat; now I require
yet five minutes, ere I shall arrive in Ceres, Now I
have reached that planet ; I see a number of cities ata dis
tance, I shall to day be led into one only ; ah ! the gate
of <his city is again much handsomer and magnificent,
than all the former. Nothing remain to me, but the
most profound adoration and astonishment, I hardly know-
how to eempose myself; my guide tells me, that these
felicities are already very considerable, but that they are
much more splendid and delightful in the sun, and in the.
New Jerusalem. The city, into which I am conducted,,
is called Gath, the pavement in the street and along the
building are all alike transparent, and beautiful, of va^
rious colors, and shining with the most brilliant hue j
performances like these, no artist on earth wswld be able
to emulate, even if he could spend and improve in his art
for a thousand years ; in comparison with them, he would
always remain a bungler, and if ever, so much admired
by those in our world, the difference would always re
main as great as that of heaven from the earth. —As soon
as I shall have passed through this superb city and after
wards through the lecturing hall, I shall be led to a stream
of tha water, whereof I shall be permitted to drink. —.
Now I approach the lecturing hall, which again is situated
without the city ; in the interior thereof I shall have
to ascend thirty steps, ere I enter
it,
each step
is
ot
another color, reflecting the rajs of that color. QUI how
119
infinitely great is God! ascending the stairs I am met by
a'glorified spirit of the dead, of female sex,* who leads
me by my left hand ; she died in her l4th year, has a
beautiful crown on her head, and her dress is of so beau
tiful a whiteness, that it shines ; I should not have known
her, had my guide not told me, who she was in our
world and to what family she belonged, with pleas
ure would I converse with .her, but she gives me
no answer, although she can speak with my guide.
It is certainly a matter of great moment, that the
blessed know each
other?
from whatever family they may
be descended ; but the same is also the case in regard te
the unhappy and the damned. Now I am introduced in
to a Hall, my female companion leaves me and seats her
self in her place ; the blessed that I here meet with, I
*an hardly look upon, on account of their brightness, as
they are almost transparently brilliant, and that which
rejoices me particularly, is this ; that I see here again
«ix teachers and that the number of the blessed is per
ceptibly larger, than what it was in the other meeting-
halls ; t» which he replied, that there are here several
youths and maidens ; who at an age of from twelve to
fifteen years died, in seme degree of innocence, certain
ly, but yet not altogether sinless, like other children,
.of a minor age, and who, although they died penitent
and regenerated, still were not yet fit for the Sun, but
new are grown up for
it,
which
I
shall yet perceive in
some of my journeys thither. Now again IJiear singing
and music, which
is
too delightful and divine, but the tune
And melody
I
cannot state.
Of the mutual love and harmony, that exist here,
I
can again not convey the least idea to any one
;
the
teachers have books lying before them, the characters
whereof resemble the purest gold, but near the learners
1
perceive no books. Now
I
must quit the Hall, and in
* Of her she stated correctly the name and other cir
cumstances of her family, no one would have remember
ed, that this goodwil
l,
whohad|died some years since, was
dead, if she had not made mention of her, for she had
long since been forgotten.
126
doing so I yet cast side-looks, but this will not suffice
me. Oh! how happy are the blessed! here nothing oc
curs, which in the least can mar or interrupt their felici
ty ; I should, if permitted to remain here, neither desire
nor ask a higher and greater felicity through all eternity.
The-country I travel through is quite level, and excels
in beauty ; if I could relate to you for eight days with
out interruption all the 'glorious sights that has been
shown to me, I should by far, be unable to describe to
you any but the very least part thereof, and yet my
Guide tells me all these beauties are in no respect to be
compared with the New Jerusalem. The water which
is given me to taste from the stream, serves to enable me
to bear all the. slander, which may be spoken of me by
bad and ill-disposed persons, with the greatest compo
sure and tranquility ; I should not have improved in re
gard to my way of thinking as a Christian, if I should
repay ill for ill. What has the Son of God, Jesus Christ,
and Redetmtr ofthe JVorld,not all borne during his min
istry in this world —nay to this hour! " He did not threa
ten, whilst he suffered, but left it all to Him, who judges
rightly." In this I will endeavour to imitate my kind
Saviour, with all my might. Oh! how can 1, poor worm,
ever be compared with the Son of God ; if that which is
wicked in me, be not exposed in this world, it surely will
be in the next!"
Hereupon she again addressed an impressive exhorta
tion to all the audience present, replete with the most
powerful admonitions, and concluded the same with these
words :
"That which has been shown to me, has besides Paul
been shown to none, that yet dwell in flesh ; the whole
of it has as yet never entered into the mind of man. Oh!
how inexpressibly delightful is the state of the blessed in
eternity! Oh! Oh!! how greatly do I pity those, wh«
on the day of judgment, when all will be decided, shall be
placed to the left and doomed to eternal, eternal dam
nation ; and how many, many millions of the human race,
pass their lives so wickedly and securely!
12I
She then became quite still, and conversed with her
Guide, but it was observed by all, that she was much
troubled in her mind ; after a while she began to speak :
'4 Then shall I see in brilliant light,
" What dark on earth appear'd to me,
'' Then holy call that—wonderful and bright,
" What here appeared a mystery ;
'' Then shall my soul God's wisdom trace,
4' Through all creation, time and space!*
" Although in eternity there appears to be an end to
time, thousand days, to speak according to the manner of
man, seem to a blessed spirit not near so long, as to a
person one day here, if even he should have passed tlwi
same in peace and contentment ; on the. other hand one
day appears to an unblessed being much longer than athou-
sand here, if even he should hare to pass the same with
hunger, arid in pain and sorrow. I beseech you, with all
my soul and ail my streng'th, by all means to be mindful of
what I have said, for these words are true and sure ; I
say not this of my own accord, but that* which my Guide
has put into my mouth, is what I announce to you." .
My heart feels quite oppressed and full of anxiety re
posing as I lay here on a bed -; for man is composed of
spirit, soul and body, and as long as the latter is not sepa
rated from the former, they stand in communion with each
other, and the one is influenced by the other, for only my;
spirit wanders here. I see several of the blessed walk
about in the Elysian fields.
After a little pause she continued to speak :
" I see the stream, from which I shall be given to drink,'
and the bridge oyer it, lying before me, but yet somewhat
at a distance ; over the bridgel shall have to pass. Now
a created angel approaches me, by whom the water will
be presented."
Hereupon she opened her right hand, and extended her
teft, saying : ,
* From Gellert's hymn : After a trial of a few short
days, &c.
l1
" My Guide on the approach of the angel, has with
drawn to a short distance in the rear, and seized my left
hand, but my right has been taken by the created angel ; i
his name
is'
Zacharias. Now he hands me the water in
'
a
transparently golden cup * Water of this kind
I
never
drank before,
it
penetrates through my marrow and bones,
as well as all my veins and joints, its taste
is
sweeter,
than that of honey. The angel also pours some drop* of
this water on my head, but before doing so, he said a
benediction over it, of which
I
know but the concluding
words, which run thus
:
May thy faithful Saviour always
guide thee in the even path." Now this angel departs
from me
;
his voice was very strong, his person too, is
large and powerful, but his lace full of love and pleasant
ness. An angel, that has been created. may be touched
and taken hold of, but
a
glorified spirit cannot, for adopted
bodies are too refined. Now my return begins."
'
During the same she was delighted, and having ac
complished the same, she said
:
"Brother, now waken me, but when awake tell me
what
I
have spoken, for
I
feel
it
in my spirit, that
I
have
underwent
a
change.
It
has always been
a
mystery to
me, that, when awake,
I
cannot recollect the least of
what has just occurred to me.
As soon as she awoke, she was quite cheerful, but soon
after several trances betell her, during some of which she
wrote letters, and during others she read in several books,
which excited the greatest astonishment of all, who sav/
and heard the same. When the trances were past, she
went to bed and during the night enjoyed
a
tolerably tran
quil rest.
* All per;ons present saw her swallow as naturally, a9
if
she actually had drank before our eves.
123
Third Journey into Ceres.
On the 1 lth of December; at half past twelve, she per
formed her third journey into Ceres. During the same
she was asked concerning the father of a family, who had
been missed, whose fate, as the event subsequently proved,
she stated exactly. .Another disagreeable travelling com
panion shewed himself, and being asked, how it happen
ed, that such appeared ?—She said :
" During my journey upwards, I pass close bye the
regions of the unhappy and damned, and the unhappy in
the first degree being permitted, to hover about here and
there, having seen me frequently wander, and knowing
me, (having partially passed through their regiuns,) as
well as I know them, they are of the opinion, that they
may obtain through ine or my Guide some alleviation, or
an earlier liberation, which however is impossible, but as
soon as my Guide gives a wink to retire, they must with
draw ; and besides this they are otherwise incapable «t
injuring me in the least."
Then she burst into a transport of joy and said :
"Another companion is given to me, I do not know
what I shall do for joy; — water shall again be presented
to me to-day. Now I have finished my Journey, and I
shall immediately arrne at a City Gate ; the City iiself
is called Noasphat. The angel, who accompanies me, is
in person largerthan my Guide, his raiment more shining-
ly splendid, red his crown too, larger and more brilliant.
He has come down from the New Jerusalem, such an an
gel is highly regarded, by^ those, that inhabit the stars;
his voice is very strong, resembling thunder, his name is
Gabriel, The blessed who meet him and are in the lec-
turing-hall, salute him with these words : " Hail to
thee, Angel Gabriel !" Every one out ot respect for him ,
rises, the teachers one after another embraced him, as
friends embrace each other, that have not seen each other
for a great while. Such a reception is not coupled with
any malice, euvy or grudge; this is all pure and clear as
124
the sun ; this angel does not deem himself in the least
superior to those, whom he saluted and embraced,
amongst the blessed reigns but the purest love ; the angel
Gabriel was also once an inhabitant of the earth, amongst
the angels there are manv, who bear the name of Gabriel.
In regard to the beauty of the gate, city and lecturing-
hall, I can but say this much — that even the blessed, that
are here, are unable to describe the glory and beauty,
tbat prevail here, according to their magnitude; what
can you then «-xpect from me, a poor worm ol the earth !
Two angels again approach me, who also were poor des
pised beings upon earth, * and now enjoy such felicitv.
God is incomprehensible and unsearchable. Let no one
believe, that the least object escapes the attention of God,
the least worm, and those insects, that are hardly risi
ble to us, are not unknown to him, much less men,
for whom Jesus Christy in order to save them, yielded up
his life unto death. Oh! what a love is this, who can
conceive and comprehend it ?"
Now she was also asked concerning the Seer of Pre-
vorst ; after a short pause she said :
" My Guide tells me, that on account of her many-
trials and purifications on earth, she had been removed
into tho New Jerusalem. The Angel Gabriel and my
Guide lead me on both sides, altho' the path is so very
narrow. The water, which is now handed to me, tends
1o render me more fit for that which is higher, and is now
shewn' to me."
Kv-ery one present plainly observed her swallowing as
greedily, as if she had been tormented with the greatest
thirst ; thereupon she continued to speak : .
" The angel Gabiiel has laid his hand on my head, and
blessed me, and then bid me farewell. This visit has
hindered me, to describe a little more circumstan
tiallv, what has been shewn to me, be content with
what L have already stated, for my return is just begin-
* Two Sisters of Weilheim, who again would not have
been thought of, by any one, had she not mentioned them
by name. t
.
125
ning : true I am now led through a most beautiful gar
den, but I am not permitted to tarry therein. The most
superb flowers and trees are in it ; I actually see many
blessed spirits, wander about therein, but the paths ate
again very narrow awl it is incomprehensible to me, that
you on my return, should not scent any of the perfumes
of the flowers and trees, which the air wafts upon me.—
My Guide tells me something, that strikes me forcibly,
that I this day shall have twenty paroxysms more, and
that they will terminate only to night, when the clock
strikes ten,—pray for me, that God eventually may carry
me through my work triumphantly. My Guide dismiss
ed me by way of comfort with the seventh strophe from
the hymn :
"Commend thy ways to Godv&c. —it runs thus :
'' Arise! arise! bid sorrow be gone,
« And grief, and affliction's sore train!
" For there is one sitting high on his throne,
J' Who, better than you, can drive away pain I
Thereupon she required to be wakened, and when she
awoke, she was again all affection and friendliness, but
that feeling; of anxiety, which had oppressed her, she was
unable entirely to suppress.
Occurrences after this Journey.
Having partaken but very little of some light soup,
hardly half an hour expired, ere the paroxysms she had
predicted occurred, some of which were more, some less
violent. Of what she said and did, during their duration,
the following can find room.
Whilst under the influence of one of them, she said :
" I hear a voice calling to me ; ii Take courage my
child, light your contests through, you will be amply re
warded therefor, here, as well as hereafter."
H*
126
-
During another paroxysm she asked for ink, pen and
paper, stating that she had to write to one of her absent
brothers ; this she performed in the presence of many
persons, during the night, with her eyes firmly closed,
deprived of all light, with the greatest accuracy. Hay
ing finished her task, she folded the letter and wrote upon
it the direction, so that all the persons present were aston
ished thereat, and could form no idea how she could poss
ibly perform such a feat ; every thing, that might have been
instrumental to her, having first been carefully removed."
During one of her last paroxysms she said :
.
,
''I actually see so clearly by means ot my stomach, ai
to be able to read."'
She then required her brother to hand to Mr. P
V — a hymn, or other book, and to open it at some
passage ; saying, that she would lay the book upon her
stomach and read in it. He took the book, and opened
it at the hymns".—"To be a Christian, requires pains," .
not a word of it being told her. She took the bonk,
pressed it upon her stomach and read the hymn with the
greatest readiness, and the most perfect decorum, always
turning the book so, as not to deprive her stomach of light.
Having finished, she said :
" But now I am truly fatigued, take me to bed."
The other two paroxysms she underwent in bed ; as
soon as the clock began to strike twelve on the church of
this place, nil twenty paroxysms, an exact account where
of had been taken, were overcome, and when they were
at an end she exclaimed ?
" God be praised, now they are past!''
After this she again appeared quite well, but took no
further nourishment whatever, and during the night ea-
joyed quite a natural, good and sound sleep,"
I27
Fourth Journny into Ceres.
On the l2th of December at half past twelve, she per
formed her fourth journey to Ceres. During her journey
thither, she received a secret commission ; but soon af
ter said:
'* My guide has riot granted the request I preferred to
Kim —An uninvited individual again wanted t» accom
pany us ; but he was suddenly dismissed by my guide. —
Molest me as little as possible to-day with questions, I
have'to-day to converse with my guide, for. my journey this
day becomes very important. I shall enter to-day a city
and a lecturing hall, ascend a high mountain, and on my
- return arrive at a sheet of water.*'
"Now I have reached Ceres —a blessed spirit again
.joins us as a fellow companion, who has come to meet
me from the purest joy. My «;uide tells me, that he
has ascertained from those blessed spirits, already alluded
to, that I was to make a journey thilher this day. Henry
Herrman is here, who in his youth died with the con
sumption ; my guide is distinguished from Herrman by
the brilliancy, and a large size of his crown for accord
ing to the degrees, the blessed have taken, the bright
ness of their appearance is regulated. Herrman now en
joys the highest felicity, although in our world he ap
peared to be overlooked, being minded by no person, on
account of his low birth and poverty, yet he is now se
blessed an angel of God! He is full of love and affabili
ty, and although he speaks with my guide, he does not
speak to me."
She was then asked, whether he walked at her right er
left hand ? to which she replied:
"In the regions of felicity, honors are not regarded ;
yet is this so to be understood, that if servants of God
shew themselves and other blessed spirits of lower de
gree are visited by inhabitants from the New Jerusalem,
a great respect is shown to them, but not so, as in the
least to impair those honors that alone are due to God. —
Now I arrive at the gate of the city j that which I enter
128
to day is called Dann ; thence I look into the Sun. It
appears to me very large ; from hence no clouds, nor
mists are visible any more, the sky too has no longer
a blue appearance, but is as clear as crystal, and
the sun seems infinitely larger and more brilliant, than
what he appears to us on earth, and yet we are not well
able thence to look at him. Herrman rejoices greatly
he is also permitted to accompany me ; we have not
quite passed through the city. —Now I am led into the
lecturing hall, which again is more splendid than the for
mer ones were."
Then she was asked whether besides Herrman she
knew no other person ? to which she answered :
" No, he too would have remained unknown to me, if
my guide had not mentioned his name and circumstancev,
although the blessed have human forms, they are quite
changed by the brightness, that envelopes them, and he
longer recognizable. as I have stated already. Between
that which is permanent, and that which is transient, the
difference is immensely great. —In this hall there are
again six teachers, they have books before them, from
which they give lessons ; the books are in quarto form
and their very covers are shining. I behold a column,
resembling a tree ; angels again are incapable to express
the splendor, which here exists. I can say nothing more
than this : every thing is divine and -heavenly, for every
comparison is too defective ; even my guide cannot
suggest to me any words, whereby to render myself suf
ficiently intelligible.—Does this not strike you as won
derful and strange ? here I lay on my btd and speak of
heavenly things ; and in the same dress and form, in
which I lay here, I also wonder there; but -only my
spirit is there, my soul remains in its mortal tenement.
—Oh! if I but could remain here!—Of the lessons, to
which I listened, I cannot communicate a word ; it ap
pears to me, as if every one was spoken in the German
language, and all those that are here present understand,
and comprehend every word, whatever portion of the
earth they may have come from. My guide tells me,
that I can say nothing of this, it being most wisely with
held from me, because my fellow inhabitants of the earth
129
would neither be able to conceive nor comprehend such
instructions. Now I have to quit the hall, and in about
two minutes I shall be at the Toot of the mountain, which
I shall be permitted to visit. I shall have to ascend
three hundred and fifty steps, ere I shall reach the sum
mit, and to do so, I require five minutes, the steps being of
easy ascent and not very high. The mountain bears the
name of JVego, its form is admirable; around it stand
the most heautiful flowers and trees, some of" which bear
fruits, part of which are of a red, and others of a whit*
color, I should fain wish to be permitted to taste but a
few of them. The trees and Dowers exhale a delightful
fragrance ; around the mountain run many roads, but
they are narrow. With pain I proceed, as I perceive
two persons, who make a deep impression on my spirit ;
they have mocked and derided me, I can however remain
comforted and unmoved thereby, for God is the judge of
my course. —Now I. am on the summit, —level of the
mountain, which is very extensive, and upon it stands a
large edifice, of such beauty and siz(yas I never be
held any before, it has several gates and entrances, and
is inhabited by blessed spirits, the number of which how
ever is very small."
Her brother then wanted to address one or more ques
tions to her, but she replied : .
" Do not now molest me with questions, I now want
to recreate myself by viewing the beauty of the moun
tain and edifice, where nothing remains to me, but the
most profound adoration and admiration ; 1 h«ar front
within the sjuiv.Is of the most delightful music and sing
ing, but I am not in the hall, where thispasses; the interior
thereof is replete with brightness. I regret not to be per
mitted to "pass through the whole of
it,
and although
I
have asked my guide to grant me leave to do so, he tell*.
me, that he deems me not capable, to hear the whole.
I
wish to be permitted eternally to stay here, but for this
I
am also pronounced as immature."
Having uttered
it
deep sigh, she continued thus
:
"
I
have already to return the level;
I
cannot suf
ficiently describe this mountain
;
the soil
is
green, as
if
covered with
a
skort grass, which glistens
;
the steps are
130
of various colours, and each do shine. —I have reached
thelowergrounds, and L am led toa river. Now Herrman
leaves me again, wilh the same love and affability, with
which he had received me; he sends me word by my guide;
"Not to neglect, as long as I may have to wander in this
f' world, my attention or prayers, but in regard thereto
" constantly to increase in zeal ; to practice love towards
"all men, as much as possible, to shun pride and haugh-
" tineas like the plague: to cherish more than any.
"thing else, the Holy Bible, especially the keeping of
'' the commandments ; likewise never to forsake the foot-
" steps of the great Redeemer of the world, and to give
''free access to the inspirations of the holy spirit ? then
"shall I be qualified for such a state of felicity, as he e-fe
"joys, which for innumerable worlds and worldly trea-
" sures, he would never exchange.*' Ah! with what
pleasant, innocent and friendly looks, he takes leave from
my guide and me. —Now I have arrived at the river, it
is called Sideron; its water is as clear as crystal, and
its current hardly perceptible ; no water on earth can be
compared thereto. The bridge, that extends over this*
river is more than beautiful, the stones, of which it is
constructed, glisten like diamonds.—But how can it be
possible, that mankind can be unmindful of such glory.
I am becoming tired of mankind, because I always speak;
of heavenly things, and they want to hear and learn but
terrestrial arguments from me '5 to be sure a number M
them will hereafter follow, and more would be given, and
have a good effect, but many will not attend to what 1
state, or not perseveringly attend to
it,
and many on ac
count of their unbelief, are unworthy of the aid, which
has been recommended."
" Now
I
commence my return, but do not molest me
during the same with any question; but tell me when
1
shall be awake, whatT have , all said this time. —Some
paroxysms will certainly yet befall me this evening, but
what l-shall state during the same, take no account of,
nor make
it
public,
it
is
absolutely not advisable, al
though
I
shall say the clearest truths."
Having finished her journey, she said to her brother,
that he should waken her, and having returned to
a
state
of wakefulness, she was full of love and friendliness.
131
fifth Journey into Ceres.
On the 13th of December she performed her fifth jour
ney to Ceres at the usual time. On herjouroey thither,
a spirit, yet entertaining hopes, again showed himself,
but she made motions with her hand, signifying that he
should withdraw, and again conversed with her guide.
Having arrived at the spot of her destination, she said :
'« Now I am up. Just now a ray falls from the sun upon
Ceres, but here he bean another name,* my path lead*
this time through a very large garden, ere I arrive in the
city ; it is surrounded by a wall, and has several gates ;
and it also contains the most beautiful trees and dow
ers, i
Now she was asked, whether she could draw no re
semblance between the Bowers there and those on earth?
to which she replied:
"Yes, I see for instance pinks, roses, &«., but they
differ widely from those on earth, in regard to their for
mation, beauty of the exceedingly delightful odor, which
they spread around them. In the garden a great many
blessed spirits are actually wandering about, who are
partly those who died, and partly created angels, all
shining with a light not inferior to that of the sun. In all
the stars, which are the abodes of felicity, created angels
are to be met with, only more in some, and -in others
less. The created angels appear to me somewhat more
perfect, in regard to their brightness, and firmer in re
gard to their bodies, but they move as briskly, as the
spirits of the glorified dead. Now 1 hear the sounds
of music, again excelling that formerly heard by me. I
shall certairily strive with all my might, likewise one
day to attain to such a state of felicity ; the higher I am
led, the more eager shall I become for it. —I have beheld.
* But she has never stated
it,
and
it
is
a
matter of re
gret, that
it
has been neglected to ask her concerning
it.
132
from the stars, formerly visited by me, the Bun also, but
did not know, what a body constantly increasing in size,
and brightness it was ; for the nearer I approach him,
the clearer and more brilliant he appears to me."
My guide tells me repeatedly, that in the state of bles
sedness, there exists absolutely no respect of person; de
scent, standing and office having here no weight whatever,
but every one being judged according to the degree of
fidelity, and the deeds done by him in the bod v. Here
an individual, who by the world, that is by men,
had been entirely- overlooked, may sit down at the side
of a potentate or prince, whose soul departed from his
body in faith : for the justice, equity and impartiality of
God can neither be conceived nor comprehended. Even'
person however upright he may be deemed to be, is, mil
remains but human in his resolution ; doing either tw
much or too little, which however will on his arrival in
eternity not be charged to his account, provided he but
always remained faithful, incapable as he was, to arrive
at more than but a trilling knowledge. —Now I have to
quit the garden ; it is called, according to our language ;
the garden of peace tind harmony."
She was then asked, what is meant by the Bible ex
pression, of being in Abraham's* lap? to which she an
swered :
1 " That state of felicity enjoyed by Abraham. My ex
planation just now given, can thus be justified. Abra
ham in his time was a prince ; but Lazarus, one of the
poorest on earth, yet did lie come to the same state of
bliss, enjoyed by Abraham. By this I believe to have
sufficiently proven, that there is an end to respect of
person" in eternity. The road on which 'I approach the
city, is very beautiful, and of various colors ,' the city
which I enter, is called " Rage]."
After a short silence she- resumed :
"Tell my mother if she should survive me, by no
weans to deplore my departure, for I long but too ardent
ly to be removed to a state of blessedness. If I bit
could remember, when awake, what is shown to me when
in a state of Somnambulism ; it would be entirely im
possible for me to remain longer in our sinful world."
The beauty of the city, and of the lecturing hall, she
133
stated again as excelling that of those she had previouslv
described, but without mentioning particulars. Here
upon she again addressed the audience by an impressive
discourse, on the delights of felicity; amongst the rest, she
also said:
" Let no one believe, that my disclosures are fancies
or the offspring of an overwrought imagination; the glory
that has been shown to me, has never >et been seen, nor
heard by, nor has it ever entered the heart of mortal man.
—As little as I am capable to give any description of
the state of blessedness, according to its magnitude, as
little am I enabled to describe the inexpressible lormeots
of the damned, in the third degree of the unhappy. If
it were but in my power, to impress this deeply on the
mind of every individual, it should give me the greatest
pleasure. I can do no more, than urge it upon every
one, to become sincerely and truly penitent and convert
ed ! Ah! if but every person would turn to Jesus Christ
the Saviour of the world in true faith ! — (have now I a task
which to learn, my guide has particularly enjoinetl upon
me, arrived so far,) that I shall pray with all my heart
lor my enemies and persecutors ; every offence commit
ted against me, 1 cordially forgive ; whether they believe
my statements or not, is indifferent to me. Who am I
in comparison with the Son of God, who lived and
taught in our, world, and met with so much opposition ;
being, as 1 have once already said, so poor a worm, why
should I not be able to bear every affliction!''
She was then asked, whether in this hall, she knew no
person? to which she replied:
" Only when my guide points one out to me, for other
wise f am unable to recognise any person, for the bright
ness, that surrounds the blessed, renders it impossible to
recognise them; but there are glorified spirits here of all
nations and religious denominations. —Now there is one
pointed out to me by my guide, known from his writings,
namely iQellert. 1 have used the expression; this is
" terribly beautiful ;" this I am no longer to use, but
shall say in future : this is delightful or heavenly."
Being asked, whether the blessod have also book* lying
before them ? she replied;
12
I34
" Yes certainly, some look as if they were bound, and
others like scrolls, I hope hereafter to be permitted to
look into them, then shall I tell, whether they are printed
•r written, for I have to behave myself with discretion.
Now to quit the hall, and my return from home is begin
ning, but do not during the same molest me with any
further questions, wishing solely to converse with my
guide."
When he had left her, she was asked with what words
he had taken leave f to which she answered:
"I can only give you the conclusion; he dismissed
me with the last verse of the hymn, No. 393," Awake
my soul !
"Nay, watch and fight, and pray!
" God sees thy struggles, and one day
" Will richly thee reward.
*'Remain thou faithful, firm in heart!
."Think oft' of death —of judgment think —
'' And of the crown, that vict'ry brings! —
Having finished this speech, she desired to be waken
ed, but at the same time predicted^ that after this sleep
she would have to encounter several more paroxysms.
When she awoke, she was affectionate and friendly, and
again requested, as she always -had done before, to be in
formed of what she had said.
Half an hour after this she had several violent parox
ysms. During some of them she spoke, but very little,
which however here can find no room.
' '
Sixth Journey into Cent.
On the l4th of December she performed her sixth
journey into Ceres. When she had already commenced
the same, she was asked, whether questions might be put
to her, whilst on her journey thither ? to which she re
plied.:
135
" Yes, only do not ask too many, as they disturb me
too much, in that which is essential."
Early in the morning of this day, a rery disconsolate
mother from a place in the neighborhood called Vutingen
on the Teek arrived here. A daughter, aged fifteen, had
.been brought home to her dead, in the month of May ef
the present year, from the forest, called Teekberg, to
which she had. went for the purpose of collecting come
dry wood. Thisga^e rise to a variety of thoughts, in
the~ minds of her distressed parents'; whether their
daughter had been killed by a fall, on the very steep
moantain, or by a stone thrown by another person, or by
.a stone rolled into her path in the forest? Being asked
about it, she gave the following answer :
"Of all these suppositions, not one is correct; she
died by a blow on the breast, which threw her backwards,
by which fall she certainly received several wounds on
the head, but which were not mortal, nor would they
have proved fatal ; the same would have happened to
her, if she had stayed at home, for the thread ef ber life
was run to an end. Now I will ask my guide,. where she
resides ? He told me, that she is in the Sun, enjoying
great felicity ; her parents are by all means to take com
fort, God had ordained that she should die, and they are
now to draw a moral from it regarding their own. salva
tion."
The mother whnse auctions wore n i.v past, then
acknowledged, what before she had not avowed : that
the body of her daughter had first been exan;ined by sur
geons, 'and then by physicians, and that all had declared,
that the wounds received by her on the head, had not oc
casioned her death, but that she had been hit by a blow,
the nature of which they however had not been able to
tell. Quite enlivueed and consoled the good woman then
returned to her home with the werds : God at my earn
est praver had already given me a hint) now I have re
ceived full confirmation."
'> At the particular request of another, also very dis
consolate couple^ from Oberlenningen, in the Oberumt
Kirchheim, whose son whilst an apprentice to the trade
el a weaver had hung himself in the work-shop,, ques
136
tion9 Were put to ner : what ha<l induced this young man
to commit such an act ; and what had been his fate ?
Having consulted her Guide, she answered :
" My guide tells me, the parents were not altogether
blameless, having compelled him to learn the occupation
of a weaver, for which he had no disposition whatever. —
That although he had at first shown no remissness in his
application, he bad wanted all inclination for this trade,
and that this had produced a powerful effect on his mind.
At a time, when every person weuld enjoy themselves
in the open air, he was generally shut up in his shop, and
saw nobody to cheer him up. Thus anxiety and melan
choly befell him, which he could not resist, aud finally
becoming a prey to imbecility of mind, induced him to
commit suicide, which to be sure he ought not to haNe
_done. The taking away the life of another, as well as
our own, is forbidden in the fifth commandment, which
says : "Thou shalt not kill.*' At first he did certain
ly not fare very well, but now he is 'in the Moon. Per
haps on some future day, I may be permitted to say mot e
on the subject."
More questions were about being put to her, but she
would not listen to them, referring those that desired to
ask them to a future period, saying: ^
My journey will soon be completed. Some spirit
again sought to accompany us, but had to be turned off'.
There is also another one present, who did not co'me from
the best of motives ; but who returns with a mind alter
ed for the better, Now I have arrived in Ceres ; I see
before me a mountain, which is admirably beautiful, and
above me the, Sun." -
"Theft she uttered a deep sigh, exclaiming :
"OGod! how inconceivably great art Thou! —To
day I shall be permitted to ascend tins mountain]
She then warned every one again against sin, in the
most impressive manner, and concluded with the words :
. " Except a man be born again, lie cannot see the king
dom of God."
" Now I am at the foot of the mountain. In the blessed
eternities seeing a mountain close before us causes no
anxiety, for the bright light that issues therefrom, is a great
137
help ; this mountain is called Joel and is again handsomer,
than those, that were heretofore shown to me. Whilst I
ascend the mountain, I am met by a cheated angel : they
change not their forms, never become older, but always
retain their youthful appearance ; the name of this angel
is Jacob. The crowns, worn by the blessed, cannot be
Tieavy, although composed of the purest gold and adorn
ed with jewels'"
" I now approach the summit, which is surrounded by
the most shining wall ; at its entraace there is a gate,
that opens, and having passed through, shuts again, of
itself ;' this gate is admirably fair. The buildiug, at
wiich 1 arrive and into which I am conducted is of im
mense length, breadth and size- being six stories high,
each story of proportionable height; here it is visible,
how great an architect God. is! Even to go rousd this
building, would as' men usually walk, reqnire a consider
able length of time. The mountain, wall and building
.abound in magnificence, I am at a loss, to what point first
to direct my looks ; to a mortal eye it would be impossi
ble to bear the brilliancy of but one of the minerals, with
which the wall and the bedding are garnished much less
that of the whole united. My prayer, to be permitted to
stay, was absolutely refused me. U is at present incom
prehensible to me, how it can be more delightful in the
Sun and in the New Jerusalem, than here. — I am now
conducted into the building and have te mount twenty
steps, ere I shall enter the lecturing—or meeting-hall. —
The beauty of the Hall, the music and singing which
there I hear, excite my astonishment and 1 have no
words, to give you a description thereof."
" I do not know the cause of the great joy, which at
once arises amongst the blessed present, I must ask my
guide. Mv guide tells me : that the news has arrived
that a very great sinner in our world has become con-.
verted, who no longer relapses ; a dream having awaken
ed him, in which the third degree of the damned was
shown to him, which would not have happened had it
not been foreseen, that he thereby would be actnally.
awakened and saved. That God has many, nay innu
merable means, to save mankind, but only that it is to be
l2*
138
lamented and regretted, that they are so unmindful} of
them. — Remember here the parable of the lost sheep and
piece of silver."
" The four divisions of this building are inhabited by
the blessed, when the lectures are over. The lecturino-
hall is by no means filled ; although a considerable num
ber of the blessed are present therein, it couh; contain a
great many more ; and l also cannot name any one of
them, that is here.
But I can tell you, how it is in regard to the increase
of felicity ; for, if for instance a person is removed from
the first degree of the unhappy into the moon ; he is not
immediately put to the place, whence he is again remov
ed to another Star, for such a person has then again to
pass through several gradations, ere he can proceeA
further, promotion in eternity being not a very
easy matter. But if a person is at once removed from
the earth into the moon or another star, he is considera
bly better oft'; for no one can believe, the virtue attach
ed to faith, repentance and conversion in our worlil in
preference to the slow gradation in the nest. Whilst I
shew my great del.ght with the blessed, my guide tells
me : that it is impossible for. him, to make me compre
hend, how much the Trinity, and again every individual,
that is blessed are concerned : that each human being,
without exception be saved whoever he may have been in
our world; it being impossible, that self-love or ambition
can enter here, in as much as none of the blessed would
ever be the loser in point of the degree and increase of
their felicity."
" The roads which wind around the mountain, ere
many, but the whole of them are again very narrow, and
the summit-level of the mountain is very broad ; the en
virons of the building appear to form a garden, and are
very pleasant. I would have much more to tell you, but
have just now to quit the hall, the building and tht
mountain. To-morrow I shall perform two journeys in
to Ceres, and one in this world to one of my brothers.
In legard to the Jatter visit I request my father particu
larly, to note down every thing which happens, with ac -
139
curacy, and then make enquiry, whether he had felt no
anticipation or made no observations."
She then became still, and having completed her jour
ney, said :
'. My guide has dismissed me with the last verse oF the
hymn No. 290, —"Soar up to God on high &c." which
reads thus :
" Be still my hear^, and waver not in faith,
" Let neither joy nor grief deprive thee of the crown
" Praise be to Him, who conquer'd death,
" And to His holy name renown!
" Thus may my song forever rise,
"To Him, that ruleth high above,.-
" In endless realms and boundless skies,
" Who help us will, and grant his love! Amen."*
When she awoke, she was very cheerful, but soon
after.had again several violent paroxysms, in which she
did not speak. At her request several books, with which
at the time she was entirely unacquainted, were laid
upon her, from which she read quite intelligibly and with
greatgrace, likewise a watch, the hands of which had pur
posely been set wrong; but she stated correctly both the
hour and the minute. The. paroxysms past, she com
plained of great langour, did not again leave her bed and
also partook of but very little nourishment.
Seventh Journey into Ceres.
On the ISth of December at half past twelve, she per
formed her seventh journey into Ceres. At the very
* Here it must be remarked, that the Somnambulist
had never learned by heart, either this or the hymn quot
ed during the last journey, nor those that will yet follow,
and yet she did, whdst asleep, also always state the right
number of the hymn.
I40
outset she complained of the presence of six unwortlijr
beings.
I have, she continued to deplore this particularly, be
cause they have an effect on my mind. I have however
now advanced so far, that I can pray ior them. God
judges between me and them, nay the very stones that
encircle you and me, shall yet hereafter bear witness,
that I h ive spoken the purest truth. Every word that
my guida tel'.s me, is faithfully stated by me ; all I have-
said, in respect to both the situation of the unhappy and
the damned, as well as that of the blessed, is more than
true; altho igh I do not even possessjthe ability sufficiently
to describe what either the one or the other are in reality
beigs far t o deficient in words to do so.
" I have now reached Ceres ; but my passage was ve
ry difficult, and I feel afraid.. In two minutes I sUa\\
be led into a City in the country, through which I ac
tually travel, are cities, mountains, vallies, forests, gar
dens and water, all exceedingly pleasant and beautiful -
A landscape on earth, be it ever so delightful, cannot be
put in the most remote comparison with this ; the differ
ence is as great as the distance of Ceres Irons the Earthy
I'now approach the city ; the ga'te is more than admira
bly beautiful, the town has a name, signifying in our lan
guage,
" City of Peuc.t,1' its length is that of an eighth of
a German mile, the street, which passes through
it,
is
quite narrow, each row of buildings appears to be
but one block, yet
it
is
not so
;
this town again seems
to me somewhat handsomer than the former."
She now again extolled the blessedness of felicity, and
on the other hand painted the torments of the damned
as most horrible. Then she said
:
"I heare the sounds of music and singing at
a
distance.
Now
I
have passed through the city,;the gate which leads
out of it,
is
as beautiful as the one, through which
I
was
introduced. A meeting-hall
I
shall not enter to-day, but
a
garden, where
I
shall find all the'blessedj that are here.
Now
I
am conducted into the garden, the gate which leads
into it,
is
again more than beautiful
;
in this garden are
the most superb trees and
a
vast variety of Bowers. The
delightful scent which issues from them,
is
truly divine;
141
and there are many, but narrow paths here, crowded with
holv angels, walking about. The cheerfulness and tie-
light, ohservable in the forms of the blessed, tiie uniform
ity of their shining raiment and crown?, rannot be des
cribed ; but I remark, that the pearls in these crowns
are not all uniformly alike. I have asked my guide what
is the reason of this ; to which he gave me lhis answer:
that each virtue, practised by men, has its appropriate
pearl ; one crown being deficient in this, another in that ;
vet notwithstanding- they ar# all equally blessed, their
sins having been forgiven them through the death of Je
sus. The most splendid crown of a kins; on earth, and
the most magnificent diadem of a princess are dull whea
compared with the crowns of the blessed; every thing
here being of quite a different character. Now my re
turn begins. The outlet from the garden is adorned wilh
a gate as fair and beautiful as the inlet ; the beautiful
green sward at the outside of the garden, 1 again cannot
praise sufficiently"
She then conversed with her guide. Before she asked
to be wakened, she said :
y My guide has again dismissed me with a verse,,
namely" the tenth, from the hymn No. 596, — " Oft sighs
my heart, how hard-it
is,
a
Christian's life to lead etc,"
It runs thus
:
" Be strong, be manly still,
" And see thyself
in
mind,
" Streched on an humble bier —
" (The certain lot of all mankind!)
" With these few years of worldly strife,
" Compare the joys of endless life!
'l The jewels of thy faith,
" New courage shall impart,
" And powers of
a
future world
" Re-animate thy heart!''
When she awoke she was somewhat disheartened, and
soon after had
a
paroxysm. During two attacks which
followed, she suffered more than one hundred palpita
tions of the heart,
,
which caused every one to believe, that
142
she would not be able to overcome them. She ascribed
much of the blame to the unworthy amongst the visiters,
that had been present.
Eighth Journty into Ceres.
On the sanve day (the loth of December) at half past
u:ie o'clock in the afternoon, she performed her eighth
journey into Ceres. The moment her guide appeared,
she was m:>st cheertul and expressed herself on that head
as follows :
Now no wicked intruders are present. I now come
neater to Cf-res ; in this journey t shall again- ascend a
mountain, * but before I shall arrive at the mountain, I
have to pass through a small grove. This is more than
pleasant, abounding with beautiful flowers and small
Golgalha, its circumference is about ten German miles,
and is surrounded by gardens ; the mountain does not
appear to me much smaller from above, than from berowr
and I have to ascend 420 steps, to reach its summit. I
sec Angels wandering about below at the foot of the
mountain, who do not appear to me to walk, but to fly.
Below the mountain is -surrounded by a wall, for which
reason I now enter through a gate and. only here the
stairs begin. I have ascended the second flight of steps,
and am joined by an angel ; my guide has went around
me ceizing my left hand, but the angel my right. He is
a created angel, called Mieha. '
My progress now is quite
easy, and I hardly know what to do for joy and delight,
I see already the gate, that leads to the summif-level of
the mountain, closing as;ain of itself. I have heretofore
seen so much glory, but this excels all the rest."
" On the mountain stands a building, covering nearly
*
Pointing to it with her finger.
143
its whole surface ; a man would nearly require fifteen
hours to go around it, but the blessed spirits here present
do so in a few moments.
The clearness and beauty, which here are visible, sur
pass all imagination. In the same manner, as I am now
conducted and accompanied by two angels, persons, that
die happy are taken away by two angels, liere there
are no angels, but such as were here from the beginning-;
I could shed floods of tears of jov, for here every thing
glistens again with splendor and brishtness. Now 1 see
also angels fly. O what glory! Let me beseech ye,
to turn with ail your hearts and souls to tbc Lord, your
God and become converted J Whatever I mar sav and
speak, it amounts to nothing, in comparison with the re
ality here ; all my talk convey but a faint image there
of. The pavement around the building consists of stones
of various kinds and colors. I am unable to describe
even these colours whose beautv is so much increased by
the ravs of the sun, as they shine thereon.'
"My guide has received permission from the angel
Micha, to conduct me into the interior of the building—
but into the hall 1 dare onlv cast a glance of the eye, as
I would not yet be able to bear its splendor. None but
angels created from etertnity are here, their crowns arc
all perfectlv alike, and adorned with precious stones.
No teachers are present, these angels equal each other
in knowledge, and instruct each other, and rejoice to
gether ; the music and singing, which I hear, again sur
pass all imagination. These angels wander about in
numbers in the abodes of felicity. Nay the verv
wish, to be here or there says my guide, transport them
to the desired spot. — Now 1 enter the gate through which
J was introduced, there the angel Micha, is going to give
me a drink of water : * the benediction was said over
me by the angel Micha before 1 drank, and after ;
the water serves to strengthen me, and promote my pro-
gi ess^Now the angel Micha has left me, and my return
commences."
It was believed by every one present, that she was.
ally drinking.
144
It was observed, that she conversed with her guide ;
when he had left her, she said :
" My guide in conclusion has left the following, name
ly, from the hymn No. 4S6." "On God. and not my
own advice, will I my fortune build &c. " the second
verse which reads thus :
" Me saw from all eternity,
" What good for me would be,
" And fix'd the time whilst I should live,
" My joys and hopes, and grief. —
" Why doeth thou lrem'>led then, my jieart ?
" \\ nil faith like this, ci;n any pain
.' A pang to thee impart ?
She then requested to be wakened, and when awake,
was full of affection and friendliness*
Occurrences after this Journey.
At the espiration of an hour she relapsed into a slumber,
in which she again was joined by her guide. She then
madn a journey with him to Chur, in the Canton Grau-
buendlen in Switzerland, where a brother of hers resides.
She stated the situation of the town quite correctly,
described the building and the room, in which she had
found her brother, and even described the occupation,
he was just then engaged in, saying : „He actually makes
a pen, true I touch him, but cannot make him sensible of
it, being with him but in spirit, my guide and I stand be
hind him, but he cannot see us ; his appearance indi
cates a good state of health. In Chur it actually wants
a quarter of four on the town clock; now I return, in two
minutes I shall again be with you, on account ef the
dense atmosphere of the earth I cannot travel so fast, ai
in ascending.''
The two minutes being past, she said:
145
*.Now my guide returns with the worths
•'Adieu! to-morrow we shall gee, and speak to each
»ther again."
This journey she had already predicted the day before,
with the addition, that it would be of but short duration.
From this sleep she awoke of her own accord, and soon
appeared refreshed.
Xinth Journey into Ceret.
The 16th of December at half past eleven o'clock in
4he forenoon she performed her ninth journey to Ceres.
During Iter progress thither, she answered sonic secret
questions and besides conversed with her guide.
Her form changed visibly, bearing an uncommon ex
pression of love and cheerfulness. Soon aJter she be
gan to speak as follows:
"To-day I am conducted into a garden, surrounded
.by a shining wall ; in eternity walls serve as no protec
tion, but merely as an ornament. Thence I shall arrive
at a city, and on this day two weeks in the sun, where
I shall visit the realms of the children.'— I shall hereafter
have some dreams, in which now and then something will
re-occur to me of what was shown to me in my state of
somnambulism, in order that at least something may re
main to me."
"Just now I arrive at the garden, laid out in a pleas
ing circular form ; my guide tells me, a person would
require four and twenty hours, to pass around it. The
blessed call
it,
according to our language the garden
of
joy. The garden
is
crowded with blessed spirits, some
of which are created angels, and others glorified human
beings;
a
created angel actually approaches me, his
name
is
Jacob. The beauty of the garden
I
cannot suf
ficiently depict to you
;
the trees stand in such fine
ranges, and the many various sorts of flowers are so beaii-
tilul, and their perfume so refreshing, that
I
find
it
impos
146
sible to convey to you an idea thereof; the trees and
flower* sparkle with beauty, but the walls in the garden
are again quite narrow. The affectionate and friendly
air, with which angels meet each other, I am again una
ble to describe : here it may with truth be said, their
faces are the indices of integrity, for here, there exists
no hypocricy. True the created angels have also human
forms, but how great is the clearness with which they
shine! Now I have to leave the garden and arrive in
a city, where I mostly meet with created angels ; in
rpgaid to beauty and perfection, they excel those, who
before were human, and are here only according to the
spirit and the soul. The created angels wear admirably
beautiful pearls in their crowns. Now I approach the
city gate. —How unfathomable and past finding cut
is God! rnto the depths of the deity no angel can pens-
traie, much less, a poor worm. The name of this city is
Phioel, again surpassing all the former in beautv, and 1
see a great many angels wander about. The angel Jacob
comes to-morrow to my consecration, he can speak with
use, his voice is very strong. 1 must say, that the glory
which is shewn to me, as it were, renders me weak be
cause I can hardly bear the same ; for this reason, water
is also handed to me by the angel Jacob, to strengthen
me.* You see me make several motions, yet if all my
limbs were scperated from my body. I should not even
stir, nor in the Jeast feel it, the situation of a Somnam
bulist is somewhat singular and peculiar, inexplicable to
myself, and my guide, whom I have already asked several
times about it, gives me no disclosures thereon, but dis-
missti me with the words: "this you need not know at
present, when you once are here in spirit and soul, y«u
will be able to explain it to yourself." I would have so
much to tell you of the beauty of the city, but 1 cannot
command a word to do it; for \tet me say whatever 1 1
my expressions are always too weak,"
After a short pause she again resumed, as followsj|fP
hjitma',1 tfjlwis .■. vi-' . . . .'T ^..V^i
"'
* Every peeson present believed she was *
dr'mkinff.- ''
Ml
*. I again receive an injunction from my guide to lay
something to the hearts
of'
you, inhabitants of the earth
;
he tells me
:
although the words, which
I
put into ymr
mouth*, with several of you evaporated as quickly ;'.s
drops* of rain
;
yet there are some present, with whom
they produce fruit, and on some occasions remain not
unimproved. Tell them the following: that disaffection
towords our fellow-men
is
a
very great sin whereby an
unaccountable number of men have lost their salvation
;
he that enters tiie other world with an unreconciled heart,
can never be saved, for in eternity mutual love in fact ren
der* felicity agreeable; for God and man's ftllow-erca-
ture stand alongside of each other
:
but
by
this
it
is
nut
meant, that,
if
one, who
is
quite impenitent, does not for
give another, who sincerely seeks and desires
a
re
conciliation, will injure the latter
;
'tis sufficient that he
is excused by God. At the same time
I
am to remind
every one, most impressively, not to approach the Lord's
supper, with an unreconciled spirit and heart
;
for other
wise they will load
a
heavy judgment on themselves. —
'Jh tell ties concerning our fellow men, to rob them of
their good name and honour,
is
an abominable sin. To be
tmcfiaritahle and hard- hearted against our fellow-crea
tures
is
a
great and heavy offence, but he that practises
charity ought not to let his left hand know, what the right
does
;
this
is
the doctrine of the Saviour, otherwise he haw
his reward. Particularly do riot despite your poorest
ftllow-men, and do not deem yourselves better and above
them; the good you do your fellow-men, must be done
from the purest love to God, and your fellow-creatures.
for God only regards the heart in all our actions
;
men
we may deceive and impose upon, but to do so to Goo,
is
impossible, To exhibit haughtiness and supercilious
ness against our fellow-men, by word ami deed,
is
*n
abomination in the eyes of God.
I
have here again at
the particular instance of my guide, been obliged to allude
to several capital sins
;
if
I
should enter into
a
detail,
I
should never be done. For my guide says, in how many
ways man commits sin
is
innumerable
;
the very persons
that do not believe themselves conscious, deceive them
selves unspeakably, let every one watch his own heait,
148
then will they soon become aware what a chaos of sin
in concealed therein. I am to implore every one, to tarn
to the Lord, in trutti4 and alter their mind according t»
the word and will of God, aod be born again; That salva
tion is a matter so inexpressibly important, that it' I had
millions of millions of tongues, I should not be able ts
express what felicity
is,
and if mankind would believe it,
they would repent in sackcloth and ashes.''
It
is
a
great folly, when spouses mourn for their spous
es, children fortheir parents, parents for their children,
provided they but die happy: although at the particular
instance of my guide I
have to declare, that an immense
deal
is
required to gain salvation. In regard to nothing
do men commit
a
greater error, than in their judgments
of persons deceased
;
many a
one
is
bv them raised tolta
sky, who
is
amongst the unhappy,
if
not the damned,
whilst another
is
considered as damned, but who
is
in the
empire of the blessed. My guide tells me, that the equi
ty
of God is, as
I
have so often stated, iasciutabfe, that
no one receives too much, and another too little. He
that
is
damned, cannot be too deeply lamented. During
my journeys into Ceres,
I
pass everv time close by the
abodes of the unblessed."
After
a
short silence she recommenced, saying
i
"
.
.
.
.*«
I
have ask«d my guide, how
it
happens, that so ma
ny persons dying on earth, every day,
1
meet with none
on my journeys up and down
?
to which he has replied
:
These go
by
different roads, that
I
should only be disturb
ed, and that he can take no other road with me, than the
one appointed, because the greatest order and punctuality
reign in
a
state of bliss. The angel Jacob now leaves
me, before he took leave, he laid his hand upon my head.
Now however begins my return, during which molest me
not with questions, for
I
want to converse with my guide.
During her return she said the following
:
'' There appears one again from the abodes of the un
happy, whom
I
know,
1
pity him much, but neither my
guide, nor
I
can
i
ender him the least assistance. My guide
tells me, that
I
am to tell freely and without hesitation,
that persons deceased, whoever they may have been
in
the world, and
if
they now 6hould even be servants
of
149
God, can with God contribute not the least, neither to
their salvation, nor damnation ; for that which they are,
they have become from pure grace, for the sake of Jesus
Christ. That he, that wantonly and frivolously trans
gresses against the commandments and laws prescribed
by God, does not turn to the Son of God, as the sole and
true mediator and intercessor with God, and does not
lend a trilling ear to the inspirations of the Holy Spirit*
is lost beyond redemption. My guide still adds, that God
could not have done more for mankind, than he actually
hasi done, (this was before not near so well known to me)
and although the love of God for the human race, through
the death of his Son does display itself in the highest de
gree, he still remains a just (iod in despite of his grace
being despised ; for God will not suffer men to prescribe
laws to him, according to the terms whereof these sinners
will accept of his grace."
.
Then she exclaimed in a tone of commiseration :
" Why will men not discern, how wretched, poor, blind
and naked they are! Now my Guide leaves me."
Immediately after this she was asked : —What her
^uide, being always in the habit of leaving her some com
fort, had said this time ?—to which she replied :
"That I shall retire more and more from the world,
and being entirely ignorant, when awake, of previous
events, he has dismissed me with the Gth verse from the
hymn No. 436, "On God and not my own advice 8cc."
which reads thus :
" What are the pleasures of this life,
" A span of time of worldly strife—
"-How soon are they not past
" And in oblivion cast?
" Hope in the Lord! His aid is- nigh,
" Ye just and good, that do His will,
" May always on His help rely!
This afternoon precisely at two o'clock I shall perform-
my tenth journey into Ceres. Brother now waken me."
When she awoke she was affectionate and friendly,
which was always a cause of joy to those by whom she
was surrounded.
150
Tenth Journty into Certt.
On the same day, (the 16th of December) at precisely
t^vo o'clock in the afternoon* she performed her tenth
journey into Ceres. During her journey thither an un
blessed spirit again offered to accompany her, but he was
immediately turned oil'; at the same time she exhibited
her joy, in anticipation of the journey to be performed oa
Christmas and during the remainder discoursed with her
guide. Arrived in Ceres, she said :
I am this time neither conducted into a garden, nor in
to a City, the landscape, wherein I now find myself ta*
the appearance of a fine champagne country, in which
angels, created from eternity are wandering about ; they
walk by pairs. The contentment, that exists amongst
them, 1 cannot extol sufficiently and how delightfully
warm the atmosphere on Ceres is, I cannot at all express,
unable to compare it with any degree of heat on earth ;
the air is perfumed with the sweetest scent, although I
here do neither perceive trees nor flowers, buj an abun
dance of roads, which all however are again quite narrow ;
lean say no more, than that every thing is divine and
heavenly.
Of this country she gave no name, nor was she ques
tioned coneerning it ; immediately after she said : -
" Directed by my guide, I have again to give you ad
monitions : in regard to the love, which we ought to bear
to our fellow men, and refrain by all means from dis- ,
pising any one, especially on account of his religious
opinions, because he, who does so, commits a great
sin. In the stars, which I visited, 1 have met with bles
sed spirits from all nations and religious denominations.
As it respects christian sects, I must acknowledge, that
there are more Catholics there, than of any other sect,
which on account of their majority of members, compared
with that of the rest, it is easily to be comprehended,
must be the case j but the same is also the case, in res
pect to the reverse. All mankind have the same claims
151
•n the kingdom of God; with God there ii not the
least respect of person, for the salvation of every human
being solely depends on his doing the will of God. M y
guide says, that hatred amongst men, envy, deceitfuln*it
and infidelity towards each other have reached their high
est pitch. That a great judgment is impending over the
world, and that God will soon bring about a great re/or-
mat ion upon it.* Humility is also particularly to be re
commended, for amongst the blessed it has its real home
stead, it being impossible that a proud person should
enter the kingdom of heaven. If I possessed but energy
and words enough, to commend to you the love, harmony,
humility, integrity, modesty, and courteousness, which
exist here and can be only experienced, but not describ
ed ! I will give you only a small example : if married
couples and children, bear an equally true affection to
wards each other, they enjoy in this world already a fore
taste of felicity ; only this feeble type and parable, am I
capable to adduce, now all of you, that are present, can
readily conceive, that a man dying in his sins, cannot
possibly obtain salvation; a state of blessedness is in
consistent with what is impure —there only a new crea
ture is appreciated ; man must be created in the image
of God and have been regenerated through righteous
ness and holiness. How many various sins are com
mitted, says my guide, is innumerable ; however much I
may call and expostulate, still I cannot sufficiently en
courage men to repentance and conversion. He that
seeks salvation, ought indeed not to be sparing of his
knees, but prostrate himself before God and implore for
giveness for his sins, through the marks of Jesus. The
world may cry me out as a fanatic, and whatever else
they may choose, and do as they like,—it is entirely in
different to me ; God who dwells on high, is my witness,
that I speak the truth. Now I am returning."
After a little pause she said with the greatest zeal :
" He that sins is of the devil!"
-
.:;i..;<;
. -
* Rut the time, when this is to happen, she has not
stated. '
•;.
„
152
Then she recommenced speaking of the third degree
of the unblessed or the damned, and continued as fol
lows ; • . '
"Although I have described the same to you as horri
ble and dreadful, I have by far not depicted the same to
you in its whole extent, as it really is. The forms in
which the damned appear are loathsome and frightful,
their tortures more than terrible — enveloped in darkness
so dense, that not the least ray of light penetrates through
itj—the constant gnawing of teeth, cursing and accusing,
which prevail, without a moments interval of peace,—
for in eternity there is an end to a'.l sleep, is this not
more than lamentable? The, worst to bear besides1 is this,
that they see no termination whatever to their miserr.
There are so many persons who say, that they believe inws
devil and that there is no devil; these 1 pity with all my
heart, that they should oneday learn to believe in, and
know them from their own experience. I know full well
that to a number, my many admonitions and exhortation 1
not always acceptable, but I cannot avoid to utter them, are
for ( ha*e t.> obey the injunctions of mv guide, which 1 do
most cheerfully, because I have become more than con
vinced of their truth.— If by what I have said. I shall
bring but one soul to repentance and conversion, so that
it may be saved, I shall be more than indemnified for all .
But above all I will begin with myself, that I may not
be rejected ; — V shall certainly, most earnestly endea
vour, to gain the palm of my soul's salvation."
Then she moved her right hand, with which she grasp
ed her guide, pointed her lips as for a kiss, and said :
"This time my guide lias kissed me, and I have
kissed him, this is the first time, but now he-bids me
farewell."
After a short paure she said <
"My guide has inspired me with new courage in re
gard to what I have yet to perform and to say, and in as
much as I am ignorant, when awake, of what occurred
before, and however innocent I am yet persecuted by the
incredulous, by dismissing me with the 5th versed from
the hymn : Commend thy ways to God, &c." No. 160,
in the old Wirtemberg hynra book, which reads thus t
l53
" And although ev'ry devil
" Resistance here would make,
M There is no doubt : God never,
" His promises will break—
** For all the orders of this will,
"The tchote Creation must fulfill/'
Then she called upon her brother, to waken her, and
when she awoke was full of love and pleasantness, but
complained a good deal of fatigue.
Eleventh Journey into Cera.
On the 27th of December nt half past 12 o'clock in the
afternoon, she performed her eleventli journey into Cere*,
but at the very outsit complained of her progress, being
somewhat diticult on occount of two great a concourse of
people ; a circumstance which had a bad effect on her
spirits. Having arrived in Ceres, she resumed her dis
course thus :
<*
Already I approach the city, into which I shall be
conducted to-day, my guide says its name is Etkana}
the gate and the city are equally magnificent, and by far
out shrine the former, in brilliancy. Here I meet with
no other inhabitants, than created angels, but these move
about, and wander from place to place. Their crowns
are all equally beautiful, as well as their raiment, alto
gether sparkling with clearness; their bodies appear to
me to be of flesh and bones, looking much firmer and
more compact, than those of the blessed, who came over
from the earth, my guide can speak with them, but I can
not, this is a favour, which is only now and then granted
me, with some individuals, especially such as enter into a
closer communication with me.'' With what love and
affability they look upon me, I am incapable to express.
Of their language I understand nothing, but it sounds
most delightful. Here is also a meeting hall, but teachers
154
especiallv appointed l do not perceive; my guide tells
me again, that their occupation consists in praising God
and executing his commands, they are also frequently em
ployed to bring the happy departed. But I more than
sincerely regret, that I am so little enabled to recount
the charms of felicity. The higher 1 rise, the more at- (
tractive they become. In eternity there is no longer anv J
counting by hours, days, months nor years — theie every
thing of the kind is at an end, for in heaven it is never
night, for it ever remains the same in delightfuUess and
glory. 1 must again speak according to the manners of
man: thousand days and nights pass quicker to one^that
is blessed, than what appears to us only one day; for my
guide tells me, that it is as impossible for a blessed sprit
to become satiated with the sight of the grandeur, hoV\-
ness, purity, justice, or in fact of what belongs (o the
deity, as to scrutinize the same. Although felicity bi
constantly increasing, yet no blessed spirit can arrive at
its termmation, but may well at a higher and more pro
found veneration ef God, this being an essential ingre
dient of what renders felicity so agreeable. My guide
charges me to imagine, how a blessed spirit can no longer
experience the least sensation from without, nor within,
whereby his felicity can be checked; he tells me, how
often does not an honestly and well disposed perBon, in
your sinful world fall into sorrow and impatience by the
fault of his fellow man ; as to the* est he should remain
silent, intending to leave me soon."
She then became a little quiet, but soon after, as if dis-
tressed at something, resumed thus; of her own accord :
'-' I regret but too deeply that all 1 say, of the great feli
cities as well as the situation of the damned and unhappy
friends, so little entrance into the minds of my hearers. ,
Believe me, that every thing 1 say is true, and realy at
first I was unable to express sufficiently what cither the
one or the other in reality is."
After a short pause she continued :
"My guide says; tell your fellow inhabitants of the
earth without reluctance, that their immorality in everv
sense has risen very high. The members of those who
die happy, stands with those who are on the rozd to the
l55
abodes of the unhappy and the damned in a vary great
disproportion. That God has already brought about
several great sifting*, but that the greatest will soon fol
low ;
The time, when this is to happen, was not stated by
her more distinctly and when asked, she replied :
Hepent and watch, for the time is quite near at hand .
What I say, I positively say not of my own accord, but
I am directed by my guide to say it. To-day I again
heard the mon delightful singing and music, I hardly was
able to endure it ; bat to give to i an idea of the melo
dies I am unable ; these being symphonies, only suitable
for Heaven, in our world they could not be executed.
My return is just now beginning.'1
.
After a pause of ft.ur minutes she said :
" During my journey hither, no spirit gone astravhas
shewn hi nself, but now one of tire in again wants to ac-
company me, but he returns immediately, not daring t»
transgress his limits."
Now she became still and conversed with her guide,
when he had quit her she said :
" Being so much concerned about my own salvation,
my guide has prayed with me the 6th verse of the hymn
No. 419. " To life I shall penetrate" which reads as
follows :
."Thine do I wish to be, oh Lord!
*' Thine gracious God, alone,
*' If Thou but sayest the dear word :
'.
" The work commene'd is donel
" Accomplish God thy holy word
" For into Thy hands, oh Lord!
"My spirit I commend."
Then she mentioned in addition, that this afternoon
precisely at 2 o'clock she should perform her twelvth and
last journey into Ceres, and during the same would be
conducted on a mountain ; then she desired to be waken
ed, in order to have time previously to enjoy a short relax
ation. W hen awake, she made no complaints, but was
aBectionate and friendly to every one.
156
Twelfth Journey into (kre*.
On the same day (the 17th December) at twe o'clock
P. M. she tell into one of her usual paroxisms of somnam
bulism. Having received her guide, she mentioned,
that in ten minutes she would be in the highest regions.
Several watches were drawn, and when the time to a se
cond had expired, she said :
'* Now I am up.—During my journey hither, two un
believers have sneakingly gained admittance, but they
will go away with a better mind, tl an that whercwitfc
they came. I now approach the mountain, it is called
Lorier ; its circumference is eight German miles; it it
of a beautiful spherical form, similar to that of an apple ;
shining with a strong lustre, and is not much smaller above
than below ; round the same below I see several created
angels walk about. Many roads wind around the moun
tain, but tbey are all very narrow, trees are also standing
about, yet not a great many, but plenty of beautiful t\ow-
crs ; their sweet scent I cannot give you the least idea
of, it is too delightful and not to be compared with that
of any ilowers on earth. Railings are fixed on both
sides of the stairs; which are almost perpendicular. I
do not know, to which, in point of magnificence, to
give the preference, whether to the steps or the railings.
Now I approach the summit-level of the mountain, which
is surrounded by a most beautiful wall, glittering all
over, and shedding its rays while yet below, upon me. —
The gate, through which I am introduced, again opens
and closes of itself. Now I have reached the level, here
every thing sparkles together, I myself appear clearer
than what I was, which is solely effected by the rays re
flected from the created angels, a great number of whom
I here behold. Ah! the love and harmony, whiclvexisti
amongst them, these certainly surpass every thing hu
man! The created angels are formed of skin, flesh and
bones, but notwithstanding they are full of cleanness,
and move as quickly as the forms of the glorified from
157
earth, who are here but according to the spirit and the
soul. As it respects the fineness of the skin of the crea
ted angels, of this I cannot speak at all ; it is much finer
and clearer, than the very finest and whitest alabaster,
which is but like a shadow in comparison."
;4 "On the level of the mountain stands a building, quite
resembling a temple ; the pavement around the same
shines with a lustre, peculiar only to precious stones ;
of the splendor in the interior I am absolutely incapable
to give you the least description ; the created angelt,
present, woukl not be able to conve}- to you the small
est conception : and my guide says, that he too would
be incapable to inspire me with words, to render myself in-
telligibe. Whilst I listened to the music and the singing,
I felt as if my spirit should die within me from emotiou.
When I first set out on my journeys, I should certainly
not have been able to endure this."
• She then began to speak of the quite incomprehensible
granduer of God, and concluded with the words :
If bat one of you, that are present, could have cast a
single glance, with the velocity of lightening, at the glo
ry, that has this day been shewn to me, he would as if
thunder-struck have dropped down in a swoon. Now I
have to quit the mountain ; on my descent therefrom I
am accompanied by an angel, whose name is affixed to
his garment, written with golden letters across his back,
as is also the case with the rest,—the one, who accompa
nies me, is named Zacharias. My return begins. In the
course of an hour I shall be consecrated for the journeys,
which I shall have to perform to Uranus and Saturn ; my
guide and the angel Jacob will then appear as witnesses
and the angel Micha, performs the act of consecration .—
I shall perform twelve journeys into Uranus, every day
two, and then twelve journeys to Saturn, likewise, two
daily, whence I shall indicate several medical remedies ;
theso would prove of much more consequence, if partly
they were not exposed to so many objections by others,
partly because they will not be used neither in the man
ner prescribed, nor for a sufficient length of time, and
partly because they will not be used at all, but several
will derive essential benefit therefrom."
14
158
" My. guide tells m> also, that during the journeys to
Saturn and Uranus I shall be attacked by paroxysms of
considerable violence, during which he shall not be with
me. During the same, 1 shall to be sure have some lu
cid intervals, which however will be of but a very short
duration, whence it follows, that my statements made dur
ing the same, are not to be taken as true, unless after
wards repeated by me two or three times, because much
that is incorrect may creep in, which therefore I mention
by way of precaution. Now my Guide leaves me with
these words : —'"God be with you —ere an hour elapse?,
we speak to each other."
Then she demanded to be wakened ; she was when
she awoke, friendly, yet her countenance serious.
Ocatrrence* after this Journey,
K * t
Consecration for the Journeys to Saturn and Uranus.
Yesterday she had alreadv stated, that to-day her con
secration would take place for the journeys of Saturn and
Uranus, and directed, that when she would throw herself
upon her knees, every one present should also kneel
down and say, for her a pious Lord's prayer, to be en
abled to accomplish the work yet to be performed by her,
o the praise of God, and for the welfare of mankind
eeking advice and aid from her.
Ere an hour had elapsed, after the last journey she had
this day performed to Ceres, she exclaimed :
"Now my consecration commences."
She then, profoundly asleep, arose from her bed, imme-
'
diately prostrated herscif on her knees, and together with
her guide, received the angels Jacob and Micha: She
then first of all renewed her oath of fidelity, and then
•continued :
** The angel Micha aai laid his hand upon my head,
159
this I felt sensibly, in the same manner as if a man had
laid his hand upon me, except that I felt a peculiar virtue
and agreeable sensation, issuing from the hand of thean-
gel ; and he also gave me to drink of the water of life.'
The spectators actually saw her drink, and after a short
pause she said ;
.' Now these three angels leave- me at once, except that
my guide has told me something which i shall disclose to
my brother alone, during a paroxysm, which will soon
follow, and wherein I shall be blessed with a lucid
interval. "
Then without the least assistance, yet in the profound -
est sleep, she retired to bed ; and after a short pause,
resumed thus :
" That you could see none of the three angels present,
I am not surprised, because their brightness would have
been insupportable to you ; but" that yuu have not heard
the least sound of the energetic words, pronounced with
a strong voice by the angel Mitha, during my consecra
tion, is much less comprehensible to me. —This tin.e I
shall awake of my own accord."
When about six minutes had elapsed she awoke ; her
spirit and body' then appeared to have been particularly
refreshed. About half an hour afterwards she had the
paroxysm predicted by her and required, that all should
withdraw, and-only her brother A.... remain with her.
To him She then said the following:
" My guide told me, that the solemnities of this. day,
have suffered a great drawback, and has exhibited grejit
indignation, that the spectators have shown themselves
so reluctance, to throw themselves on their knees, in
order to humble themselves before God, and say the
.Lord's prayer in my behalf,"and the same ot Jesus Christ,
as requested ; alleging, that they, the blessed spirits did
not come of their own accord, and by means of their ow n
power, but had received permission from the throne ut
God to. do so. That they can claim no honors, nor ado
ration, for such an acception would precipitate the most
blessed into the lowest pit of damnation, this bains; the
blackest crime against the most high majesty of God
they could commit. I therefore now apprize you, that
160
by neven o'clock I shall again fall asleep, during which
period I shall undergo a second act of consecration; my
sleep will last full three hours, consequently until ten
o'clock, but the angels and my guide will not near so
long remain with me, but when they shall have departed
1 shall constantly enjoy very lucid intervals, until I
awaken."
She then requested, that all the persons, worthy of
them being present, should be mentioned by name ad
ding the following, and most impressive injunction.:
" By all means dispense not with genuflexion and
prayer in my behalf, for I am determined, that nothing
shall then be neglected, nor omitted."
Soon after she awoke of her own accord, and felt some
what weak, yet rejected all meat and drink. Until sw
. o'clock in the evening she remained in bed, then rose
voluntarily and went into the sitting room, took a seat
and conversed with those that were present. As soon
as the appointed time approached, she unexpectedjy fell
asleep upon the chair; and when the clock struck seven,
her guide also joined her, whom she received with every
demonstration of joy. Two minutes afterwards she rose
from her seat, went out through the door, leading to the
"Oehren,"* and advanced about fifteen steps, then re
turned to the room, with her hands folded, saying:
"Now 1 have received the angels from the " Fountain
head."
She then did not sit down again, but immediately fell
upon her knees, with such a grace, and such a visi
ble lifting up of her heart to God, as to excite the aston
ishment of all that saw her. Every one present also
knelt down. The most profound silence prevailed dur
ing this act of consecration ;-she laid the left band upon
her breast, but extended the right straight forward ; she
was also seen to drink. This act being past, she fell
upon the floor with her face, and remained prostrate for
more than five minutes; having erected herself, it was
perceived, that secretly she prayed to God, raising as
* Court house yard
161
she did, her hands Folded, and quite wrapt in devotion,
up to heaven. After a short pause she rose strengthened,
opened the floor, and accompanied the angels as tar as to
the spot, where she had received them, then returned to
the room with her guide, who took his leave when two
minutes had elapsed. Immediately after she again knelt
down and addressed n loud prayer of thanks to God, in
behalf of all those, that had been found worthy of being
present at so solemn and dignified an act.
Then she pronounced such an energetic and spiritual
prayer, that every one exclaimed : she is rilled with the
Holy spirit! The spectators were so deeply affected,
that they all shed tears, and- acknowledged freely, that
oaly those coming from eternity, were able to pronounce
prayers like these ; in as much as to a worn, and ad
dress, with which it was delivered, did far surpass every
thing human. It is however to be regretted, that this
lofty prayer could not be taken down from word to word.
The main contents thereof were as follows : First she,
thanked the Lord God or the Trinity, that she as a poor
norm had been found worthy of so much grace and con
descension ; Secondly she prayed that all her sins might
be pardoned ; Thirdly that she might increase and grow
in piety, be truly" born anew and guarded against every
relapse; Fourthly, that God might bless her prescrip
tions for the risk and suffering, and finally, Fifthly, that
God might not detain her long in this world, but soon
take her to himself. It was just nine o'clock, when she
had finished this divinely delightful prayer; she then
arose and took the same seat, which before she had occu
pied.
Soon after this she fell twice more on her knees, and
again delivered several fervent prayers, which excited
the greatest suprise. In these she prayed particularly
for the human family in general, that God might have
commiseration on all, and yet bring many, very many
to repentance. She extolled a state of blessedness with
all her might, but regretted, being almost totally deficient
in words, to enable her to describe and depict the same
according to its magnitude — unable as she also was to
14*
162
state the situation of the unblessed and the damned ade
quately to its (rightfulness :
Dunag all these prayers her enunciation was so clear
and sonorous, that no human being would be able to utter
a similar tone, or to pronounce a word in such a manner.
Having finished the last prayer, it wanted but ten mi
nutes of ten ; she then seated herself, profoundly asleep,
in her former place, but when the clock struck ten, she
awoke of her own accord.
Thus ended the preparations ftir her journeys to Saturn
and Uranus.
When returned to a state of wakefulness, she com,
Slained
of very great fatigue, but immediately desired to
e informed, what had happened to her, not being con
scious of the least that had occurred. She was muck
surprised, when on occount thereof was given to her.
During this night she enjoyed a pretty refreshing repose.
Journeys into Saturn end Uranus.*
From the l8th to the 29th of December, both days in
clusively, consequently in twelve days she performed
the journeys to Saturn and Uranus, two each day. The
rumor had previously been spread, that she would then
suggest medical remedies, which caused her to be so fre
quently applied to, that the house of her parents was
fil
led with strangers, from seven o'clock in the morning,
until five in the evening. The crowd of people, claim
ing admittance was so greatj that frequently person*
from
aj
distance had to stay in this place over uight,
if they wanted to avoid departing without having accom
plished their intended purpose.
At the commencement of the journeys,
it
was during
*
She visited .Saturn before Urauus, which
is
hereby
Boticed, to correct
a
former statement..
163
the space of ten minutes, that she prescribed remedied,
but this peri»d was daily prolonged, by two minutes, on
the last day to thirty five. Every day she predicted to
a second, the length of time during which she would
continue to give said prescriptions, and each time it
proved couect to a second, which excited the greatest
astonishment in both the learned and unlearned.
There were always several individuals present, who
constantly had an eye on their watches, in order to ob
serve whether no trick was played, in regard to the exact
stating and hitting of the minutes, but every one became
convinced, that not the least symptom of deception pre
vailed,
Of the remedies, indicated by her, none arc herein
communicated, although the whole of the recipes were
put into the hands of a physician for examination, who
had expressed a wish to obtain the same.
Of both stars she stated the following : That they
resemble worlds; containing va I ties, mountains, forests,
gardens, and a great many cities, as well as solitary
buildings, water and lakes. That they abounded with
blessed spirits, consisting both of created angels, as such
who had been removed thither from the earth ; the latter
being provided with their teachers. That these stars
are not inferior in beauty to Ceres, but others appear to
be somewhat more perfect.
" [ am, she said, conducted, in both stars, only into
gardens, and to mountains — passing however close by
cities, but you overwhelm me so much with questions, as to
render it impossible for me to speak of their beauties and
splendor. It is to me a matter of regret, that no physi
cian is present, possessed of the requisite knowledge to
treat me in as much as then a mucli greater benefit would
be derived. Professor Eschenmnyer of 'J'uebingen, and
Doctor Koerner of ff'einsberg would be the right men ;
Doctor Nik of Vim would also be suitable, and abroad
there are still others." .
.
.
. .
That which excited the greatest surprise in regard to
medical remedies and tended to convince, is this : —that
all thi* kind of things she was previously as ignorant of
and uninformed, as a new-bora infant ; for herbs, and spi
164
:
rituousaml fluid articles were entirely unknown to her.
She often mentioned things, of which no one believed, that
they possessed the least medical virtue, or that they could
prove of use, when applied on this or that occasion, and
yet, the remedies indicated uy her, "often proved speedi
ly servicable to persons of respectability as well as other*.
A great many proofs might be adduced, and still more
would be extant, had not many individuals after receiving
actual relief, had not remained ungrateful and silent. *
The remedies which she suggested, were generally
very simple, yet notwithstanding, if properly and perse-
veringly administered, of the greatest efficacy.
On her return from her last journey to Uranus, (the
20th December) she said :
"My guide tells me, that I shall this night fall into »
profound sleep, induced by Somnambulism, during which
he together with my sec. md guide, George Goels, who
is also in the Sun, and Pastor Kenz,\ deceased, latr of
this town, who is appointed a teacher of children in the
Sun, will join me, and the latter will perform ihc act of
consecrating me for the joruneys I am to perform to the
Sun. This however will not take place here, but I shall
have to perform a journey, which will be to Uranus, but
in that time I shall suggest no remedies, nor are any ques
tions to be put to me concerning any. During my jour
neys to the Sun and the New Jerusalem, 1 shall, my
guide tells me, now and then be permitted, to state cures,
but not near so many, as I heretofore have suggested, but
that only during thu journeys to and fro' he will, if per
mitted, communicate the same to me."
Immediately after this she desired to be wakened
her guide having left her ; she was serene, when she
awoke, but complained of great fatigue.
« Not the least compensation was ever asked for «uch
prescription, by the relatives of the Somnambulist.
t See page 79
1G5
Occurences during the last -
Journey to Cranu*-
Consecration for the journeye to the Sun.
R»nn after she awoke from her last journey to Uranus,
she fell into violent paroxysms, during which she had to
overcome l l0 successive palpitations of the heart, which
would most likely have induced the belief, that she would
fall a victim to the same, had she not previously predict
ed that she would have to endure that Number, and that
they would do her no injury, but only render her weaker.
These palpitations, as they occurred, were counted by
several individuals, and as soon as the ll0th was past,
she became quiet, but spoke not a word during that pe
riod. Seven minutes afterwards she awoke, complained
of great weakness and langour, and afterwards partook
ot only some thin soup ; a little of very good old wine
was offered to her, but she would not accept of a drop,
and afterwards likewise left her bed no more.
The moment the clock struck eight, she fell into a
sleep, during which, having received her guide, she ex
pressed herself as follows :
"Now begins my journey."
-During the same, she again most assiduously exhorted
to repentance and conversion, and amongst other senten
ces said the following :
" 1 believed to be pure—yet only since I was confirmed
Buch a register of sins has accumulated against me ; but
my guides" assure me repeatedly, that if I continue in my
course of conversion, all my sins will be forgiven me, for
ever ; because if I had not underwent such a chang« of
real conversion, I should also not have been deemed
worthy of, or qualified for such a journey. No one be
lieves, how much every person sins every day only in
words and thoughts, for of works I will not 'even speak
—which he does not mind at all, yet all of which are re
corded with accuracy ;—I am incapable, to impress it
160
Upon you, how rigidly God regards sin, the breaking of
the Sabbath is also a great sin.
She then enumerated a series of sins, which man con.-
mits and then exclaimed :
"Seek that ye be saved with fear and trembling."
Atthe same time she remarked however, what had al
ready been stated hy her on a former occasion, that n<>
one for that reason ought to discontinue his labours and
business, but by alf means prove faithful therein. Xhcit
214 she adduced the following verse from the hvnin Nu.
" Faithful father. O! thy love &c."
*' Lord ! convert I pray,
" Ml that are dear' to ine—
" Point the road and shew the vfav,
" I'o all the human family.
"Shew them quick Thy lace divine —
" Draw them up to Thee with might,
i' Let Thy light before them shine,
" Doom them not to endless night!"
u I shall certainly shine with all might,
\>y
means of
a
divine power, to obtain and carry off"the jewel,*' which
is
typical of the, heavenly mission bv God of Christ Je
sus." The harvest has long since began, and the angel,
tcho carries the sickle in his hand, certainly does not over-
jOok
us, hut comes assuredly, and soon."
After
a
pause of
a
few minutes, she said:
"Now
I
have arrived on the spot. To be here
is
in
comprehensibly delightful;
I
am upon an acclevity, upon
which stands the most magnificent temple, in this
1
shall
be consecrated for my journeys to the sun. Renz too
is
already present.
"
Then she remained quite still for several minutes, her
features were observed to indicate great humility, she
was closely regarded and every one believed, that she
actually drank. , Whereupon she said
:
,
•'Now the consecration for my journeys to the sun
ij
'past
;
Renz has retired, but my guides still remain with
167
me. Rmz suddenly recognised me and called, me by
my christian name, how friendly and affectionatly he dc-
uianded himself towards me, 1 cannot sufficiently tell
Tou,and the words, which he pronounced over me during
his imposition ot hands, it is impossible for to repeat after
him. Of it- may be said with justice :
The teachers will shine like the sun," on account of
the clearness, which envelopes this blessed spirit, the
beautiful crown, which adorns his head, the glistening
white reiment and the scarf around His loins, he would
remaia recognised by me. He gilds mv two guides in
nothing;. He also gave me to drink of a verv invisorat-
ing and refreshing water. Although I am here but ac
cording to the spirit and essentially cannot drink, 1 yet
enjoy spiritually the sensation and taste thereof, as if I
-actually had drank, just as my features become serene or
clouded, according to the object, which is shewn tome,
so I also immitate it with the mouth and by swallowing.
This feeling and sensation very far surpasses that, expe
rienced by a person who is dreaming."
" Te-morrow precisely at noon 1 skall perform my
first journey into the sun, but previously put a white
dress on me. Scoffers at the word of God, and dispara
gers of the divine truths, do not admit, for they would
render my journey very onerous which to perform, will
any how not be an easy task. Do you not know the in-
juction of the redeemer of the world. " Give not that
which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls
before twine." God employs in behalf of mankind, all
possible and innumerable ways and means, to bring them
to salvation, but they will not yield; and it is, my guides
say, his earnest desire to see them saved. Think only,
what a heavey and great responsibility, the thoughtless
scoffers and despisers of the grace of God incur ; 'I will
not convert men, but I only want, that they should suf
fer the word of God, the Old and New Testament to
•convert them."
Then she repeatedly began to describe as most lamen
tably and horrible unexpressible torments of the damned
and the already, in the highest degree, deplorable situa
iton of the unblessed, wi th this addition :
j .
' •
.
'
'.
I68
" I speak not of my own accord, but the words onlr
laid in my mouth by guides, I have to utter. In eternity
I shall one day hunt up those in all heavens and hells,
who have heard me, as well as those who, when my dis
closures shall have become public, descry me as a fanatic
and an impostor, and ask them, whether I spoke the
treth or not? I am assuredly convinced, that those who
are damned are unblessed, will give me the testimony,
that I have given too mild a description of their state ;
whereas also those, who are blessed, will exclaim, that I
have said but too little of theirs. Be the whole submit
ted to Him who judges rightly!"
Then she prayed again with real devotion, from the
fullness of her heart and with energy, the following hymn
from Miter's casket, Vol. II Page 22.
" I will strive for the lifa
Of blessedness—
I will strive to enter
Till I gain the victory.
Am I detained, I'll run a head,
Am I fatigued, I hear the words :
"Forward run with all thy might,
For the jewel is in sight."
As.if called, to the steps
Of the throne of the Lamb,
I will hasten ;—by procrastination
We often loose rewards.
He that runs, but runs not well
Gomes too late to claim his right
With what is past, I am dane,
May it be forever gone.
Jesus! pray direct my looks,
Only to the aim in view —
Guide my steps and strengthen me,
When by taintness overcome.
Tempts the world, speak to me—
When reviled, comfort me—
May thy grace unawares
Free me from the world's snares.
169
'Thou must draw me, ray endeavor,
Is by far too weak
For what 1 languish, j
My soul with anguish,
Well does feel ; but thine the power,
Through thy blood now live to give.
Hark the cry, that Heaven pervades?
"it is God, who all creates!"
Immediately after she saul :
" Now ray two Guides leave me, and dismisses me
. with the blessing : "The Lord bless-you, and keep you;
.*the Lord make his face to shine qpon you, and be gra
cious unto you ; the Lord lift up his countenance upuii
•you, and give you peate.*
Then she called upon her brother, to waken her,—
When awake, <she wanted as usual to know from word to
-word all that she had said j the same.having been related
to her, and that according to her prediction, she was to
morrow to perform her first journey into the &un, she
became transported with joy and said :
I can hardly watt until the time arrives j I feel bow
-quite refreshed."
Soon after she~fell into a natural sleep and did not
awaken once throughout the whole night.
iFirit 'Journey into the Sun.
On the SOth December, at half past 11 A. M. the
'went to bed, and after going asleep she crossed both her
hands, but breathed with great difficulty, when the clock
struck twelve both her guides appeared to her, whom she
received with the greatest serenity and affection. She
* This blessing she received also from her second guide
when he quit her entirely.
13
170
had hardly conversed with them for aruinute, when she
said:
'*I require eighteen minutes *ere I reach the sun, and
now, this very minute my journey commences."
Soon after she said;
"There is one, that is unworthy in my road, and my
journey progresses with some difficulty."
At the same time sTie somewhat extended her hands,
firmly closed, and said:
" Now I proceed with a good deal more ease."
Soon after she exclaimed:
" Now my progress is quite easy."
During her journey thither she moved her lips continu
ally, because she conversed with her guides, and turned
her head alternately to the right and to the left. Hav
ing accomplished somewhat more than one half, she said:
" It appears to me as if all the constellations of the
'firmament were in motion. I hear at a distance, in va
rious directions, nothing but music and singing, those on
earth should learn it."
After a short pause she said ; .
" 1 hare asked my guides the signification of this, tp
which my brother answers: I have several times already
intimated that, on your arrival in the sun, I would statu
to you, according to the method of computing time in
your world, the correct hour, day, month and year, when
the King- of all Kings, and the Lord of all Lords, was
fborn as man for a sinful world. This is one of the great
est festivals, which is likewise celebrated every year in
Heaven according to your method of computing time ;—
although there is here an end to all computation of time,
not only the created angels, but also those who by the
mediation of this Man-God have come over with a true
and living faith in him, are entirely at a loss, with how
great an adoration to worship God, and on the other hand
'* Six watches, amongst which there were three that also
shewed the records, were laid down, and when the time
fixed bad-expired, to the second, she declared that she was
in the sun. . . ,
. . ' *H
.
. '< .. I V' ".11 " '
:> '\ v." ..
.
171
i f •
. . .>
tve do not know, how we can sufficiently humble ourselves
before God, on account of his so incomprehensibly and
inscrutably greatgrace, love and compassion. Here tliu
annunciation: Glory to God in the highest and on earth
ptace, goodwill toward ment resounds in its real grandeur.
" Now my second guide Goely begins to speak, and
says: The damned and the unblessed are aware at thh'
time as well as we ; we that are blessed, cannot rejoice
enough, but the damned and the unblessed feel their tor
ments, and they are unfortunate fortius reason in a higher
degree, because the sound of joy penetrates to the lowest
bell. At the thought, and whilst they accuse themselves,
and others, that they might be equally happy, they now
say " but we deeming ourselves wise, have become fools,
and missed the right road entirely, and by their lamen
tations are so extraordinarily increased. "—The time of
rejoicing and enjoyment, last continually, for in a state
of bliss there is no night whatever ; but the holidays ac
cording to your time, namely "the festival of the na-
livity of Jesus, the day of his circumcission, the anniver
sary of his death on which he deprived death of his pow
er, that of his resurrection, the dayof his ascension, and
the festival of YVhitsontide, form an axception in the
heavens, on account of the super-abuudent joys, which
prevail.
" Now my brother begins again to speak, his voice to
day is very strong and persevering. Tell your fellow
inhabitants of the earth, that you have now been commis
sioned, to tell them, when "Jesus Christ the son of the
.most High was born." Namely, 1835 years ago, con
sequently, three years earlier, aud not on the 25th of
December, as you are in the habit of reckoning, but oa
the 30th of December, in the morning between three and
four o'clock, this is ihe very hour, day, menth and year.
After a short pause she exclaimed:
"Now I am in the sun!"
The joy- amongst those, that had laid down their
watches, was extremely great and every one was surpri
sed how it could be possible, as the eighteen minutes had
elapsed to a point. She then immediately continued to
speak as follows ;
l7ST
The sun is an uncommonly large body ; if there was
fione but (he sun, God would have room enough, not an!*
for those, who, since God peopled the world have lived,
but there will also be plenty of room for those, who will
yet follow, and if the world should yet stand for a thou
sand; nay thousand, of thousands of years, so say my.
guides. It appears-to we, i:s i!'oiie.and.the.same instrumen
tal and vocal. music pervaded every part oftbis-indiscr-ibar
bly large body. Now it is very plain tome, why 1 requiis
two gutds fur my journeys to. the sun and. the New Jeru
salem, for I have very firmly to grasp. them, because I
am hardly able to bear — (I do not know, how to express
myself). the glory, I behold. 1 believe, that if it were
j.'OS3ible,.for my. spirit t.i be dissolved, it would do so, at
the si^ht of the clearness, glory and beauties, which ire
nh.iH'u to me, and at the sound of the music and singing,
which 1 hear. —My two guides smile at my expression,
my brother tells me ; dear sister if all the glory, which
exists in the sun, should have to be shown to you, your
spirit alone, unconnected with ynur body, would not be
Me to bear it. A. very small part, especially of the rc -
giant Of the children will and can be shown to you, for a
great part of the kingdom of Ged is composed of the .
children, although there is also a great part of older per
sons here, who on earth arrived at- an advanced age.
Those who very duly pious teachers, were notwithstacd.-
ing but seldom appointed teachers of the children here.
J ti order not to disturb you, I will only remark, that in
one more remote journey hither. I shall- have to tell you
something, which will have a particular hearing, (as I
have heretofore already intimated to you,) empire of tlvc
children, which yau, as. well as all' those, who shall hear
it, arc then not to keep a secret, but sutler to strike deep
noots in your hearts."
'f.Now- do not ask me any questions.— The climate in
the sun. is more than refreshingly and plcasantly warm :
we inhabitants of the earth believe the sun to- be a real
ball of fire, which he by no means is. The Sun does not
move, and beyond the sun are still millions, nay an un
countable number ol stars, which are always visible ; in.
une of taem is the city of God, but this is also a sun,."
I73
After a short pause she said:
" I have asked my brother the name of the sun con
taining the City of God, to which he has replied, not'in
a tone of anger, but great seriousness, this behoves neither
you, nor your lellow-inhabitants of the Earth to know,
come here first in spirit and soul."
" Now I approach the City, into which I shall this day
be conducted. The cry of jubilee, singing and music,
which I hear near me, humble me, before the great, nay
surpassingly great " majesty of God," so as to induce a
belief, that I shall dissolve with transport; of all this I
am totally incapable toconvey to you the least idea. The
walls glisten, as if they were strewed over with pure
dust of gold. The City, into which I am led, is called
Jam ; the gate and the City, as well as the style of their
architecture is again much more splended, as in the stars.
The buildings are very high, as well as the windows, re-
Hecting rays of beauty; this city is of giVat extent, the
street through which I am conducted, is again not broad,
but beyond measures beautiful and splendid ; I am sorry
that I can tell you but so little thereof. In this city
there are a great many angels from the fountain head,
and such as also came over from our world, I hear the
more than delightful, and quite exquisite instrumental'
and vocal music, but perceive neither the musician, nor
the singers, but observe well a peculiar shouting, and ex
ulting amongst the blessed, and see them wander about
in the city. Now I have passed through the city, the
out let gate is as beautiful, as the one through which I
entered."
.'Now I am conducted into an immensely long and
broad edifice, situated without the City, inhabited by in
fants conceived in the womb of their mothers, although
they came to the world still-born, to those of the age of
one year. Those have also, already their teachers, and
nurses or governesses; a majority of them skip and jump
about, the fewest are seated, but upon what beautiful lit
tle stools! They arc not larger, than they well could
be, according to their respective ages, if they were still
alive, and a'l of them have a small crown upon their
heads. Infants of the highest and greatest rank on earth,.
1.74'
enjoy in the other world, not the least preference over
the lowest of those that are here present, for God loves
them all equally alike. Their little garments are as
bright as the sun, their breasts and shoulders are adorn -
ed with most graceful bows of rose-coloured ribbons, re -
sembling small roses more than bows. Children of »
larger growth and more advanced in age that have come
here, wear scarfs around their loins, and are more per
fect, I might say more corpulent. A more delightful and
charmrng aspect no one can imagine, than that offered
by such i:ttle blessed spirits, skipping and jumping about
amongst each pthcr, and rejoicing in such numbers; and
how great the lure and harmony, that reigns amongst
ihese children! I 5ee many, that are not larger than lit
tle children's dolls, and yet they are so cheerful!
"My guides also direct my attention to children be
ing present here, of all religious denominations, nations,-
tongues and languages, in one word, from every region..
of our whoie globe. They tell me further, that here I
behold by far, but the. fewest number of children of this
description, there being a great many more such build
ings and halls in the Sun, where such children reside."
She then made a pause,. and it was observable, that
she was discoursing with her guide. Then .she resumed;
of her own accord:
''I'have asked my guide, .whether (he size of the chil
dren remains what it is, or wJir.iher they alsoj grow; to
which she replied; You might in regard to this, have
taken the hint from me, having on earth lived but to the
age of six years, and somewhat more than five months,.
then I was not so tall, than what I am now. The chil
dren grow in regard to their mental faculties", as well as
in body, and arrive at the same stature, which they
would have attained, had they remained'on earth. Their
spirits and souls are here completely cultivated, but this
i* to be well kept in mind, that children remain here
without sin, and improve. much quicker, than if they had
remained on earth. They retain their nurses, until, ac
cording to the world's reckoning, they have attained their-
i\inth year."
After a few minutes, during which, however, it was.
175
not' observed, that she conversed with her guides, she
continued her discourse as follows.:
"My brother asks me—Have you not already remark
ed on one of these children (for there are several pre
sent) a peculiar mark? I had to answer him: not asyet,
but I will look again around'mc. Yes, now I observe
upon some of them purpel.red'litUe loops underneath the
ribbon, which they wear across the breast and shoulder,
and a peculiar pearl in their little crowns. — This is what
I mean, says my guide; these are children, that were
murdered, for this reason they wear such a distinction,
but they are on that accounts not happier than the rest.
In their formation all children resemble each other much,
jet they are still not quite like each other; the hair of
the most appears- whitish, and their eyes sparkle with
brightness. The teachers and nurses here present, came
also here as infants; the former have to instruct
their pupils, in the first principles of knowledge, the
nurses have also their assigned occupations. Hut — my
guides tlo add—think hereby of no impurities, these are
the fifth of sin; thinking of the blessed, not the remotest
idea of the kind ought for a moment to be permitted to
outer the mind, far every thing, which is the concettant
of sin, has ceased here. The blessed pass here in a.state'
of increase to a still rising perfection, as well 'as the chil
dren, teachers and nurses. In a state of bliss there
reigns a system of which no mortal can. form a concep
tion. The children are also very often visited by the
created angels, and frequently by the blessed, that have
long been here; these, a? it were, have the superintend
ence of the whole. . ,
'.I had believed, that I should appear more worthy
to-day then formerly, but there is as great a difference
between the riamentofthe blessed and mind, as there is
between the clearest mid-day and the darkest night, al
though this expression of mind is by no means sufficient
ly definite. To describe the beauties ofthe hall, 1 lark
words —they excel, as the common saying is, beauty it
self—the music and singing are also.very delightful, yet
is there still. room for improvement in the part of those,
that here practise those arts; the music which I heard
(luring my passage through the city of ha, was infinitely.
- 176
more perfect, for such I never listened to Sefore.
guide tells me, that the blessed too, are not all gifted
alike, seme possessing talents in one, and others in ano
ther branch; that God makes use of the one for this ser
vice, and another for one different; although all possess
information in regard to every thing, yet that the differ
ence in this respect is \ery great, this being required by
the wisdom and government of God. Soon I sha'.l have
to quit this hall. Fall, I beg of you, those parents, whose
children die early, that they are by no means to mourn
or fret after them; because they are eternally so happy.
If parents and others, could but cast a glance into tbe
empire ol the children, they would certainly no longer
complain. But, my guides tell me, that God cannot per
mit this, for this reason, because every one, to whom
this favour be granted, would become quite unfit for our
world. And just as painful would it be for the survi
vors, if a spouse, parents or child, or any other indivi
dual, with whom they were more particu/arly or closely
connected in this world, should be shewn tothnm, in the
first or second degree of the damned. These would not
only enjoy no longer any rest, neither day nor night, but
fall a prey to diseases of the mind,"
Now my return begins ; this will be more rapid, than
my journey hither; in fourteen minutes I shall have per
formed the same. To morrow precisely at half past ten
o'clock I shall undertake my second journeyinto the Sun,
when an empire of children will be shewn to me, whoare
in their second and third years. In the region visited by
me to-day, I see no mountains, but quite a champagne
country, resembling a garden, yet being none. The sur
face is most beautifully green, intersected by innumera
ble walks, which however are all very narrow ; this place
serves the dear infants, who already more than- enjoyed
themselves in the Hall, as a change of amusement.
She then conversed For nearly four minutes with her
guides, and then resumed as follows :
" I have asked my guides, that having met with bless
ed spirits of all religious denominations, «nd sects, Jews,
Heathen, and of all nations of this earth, I should like to
know, how this happens, in asmuch as Jews,, Heathens,.
177
&c. do not believe in the Son of God, and that i:e did
die and rise again for them —and yet no one can be
justified in the eyes of God, without such a faith? To
this the one as well as the other-gave me the following
answer: that God judges these two according to the
principles of their faith, and especially agreeably to the
(tlpgree, in which they have been faithful to their consien-
cps, and the laws written on the tablet of the heart of
p;icb. That the omniscient God knows very well be
forehand, what progress each of them should have made
and if he had been instructed in the whole of the re
vealed word of God, accordmg fo this, as I have already
been once told, he will be judged. That in the moon par
ticular institutes of instruction have been established for
such individuals, where 1he son of the most High is made
known to them according to his divinity and his inex
pressible merit and? love to the human race. My guid<!
tells me, that their progress is very quick in regard to
'.his knowledge, and in regard to removals parallel with
those who possessed the revealed word of God. The
dispensations and means, applied by God from the be
ginning to mankind', and which He yet applies, are and
remain a mystery to many to the end of their lives. The
admiration of the unspeakable greatness of God, consti
tutes in eternity, with mankind something extraordi
nary, especially with such, to whom their own, and the
fate of others, was often so enigmatical. In two mi
nutes there will be an end to my journey. My guides
Have left me; the farewell they took, will tend to my in
struction, whereby, in regard' to my last question, 1 can
compose myself now and for ever, for the future. Mv
brother repeated to me the 8th verse from the hymn,
No. 160, in the old Wirtembcrg Hymn Book, which
runs thus:
Afj*l Him, Him rule and govern,.
He is a Lord that's wise,.
His actions with a purpose stern —
(No odds how great your grief)
Will bear him out to your surprise
And bring vou strons: relief—
l78
When the work shall have fulfilled
His mini} has planned acid wisdom willed."
"My enemies will certainly all be fubdueil, it" not til
recti r, certainly somewhat later. —Now, brother, wakei'
me, but you must this time, make fifteen strokes backf
wards. ''
Replete with affection and friendliness, she awoke,
buj
immediately exclaimed:
"My journey has this tinic, been of considerable du
ration, tell me now.
I
beseech ye, all from word to word!
what
I
have spoken."
Second Journey into the Sun.
On the .list December, she performed her second
journey to the Zua, at half-past ten o'clock, in the fore
noon. When she had fallen asleep, she commenced'
speaking:
"This journey will last again eighteen minutes, and
I
shall have to perform
it
alone, until
I
shall have passed
the first degree of the unhappy. A stray spirit from tht
first degree of the unhappy, wanted to accompany me.
but as soon as my guides appeared, he went back of his
own accord. To-day
I
am quite contented, for
I
pro
ceed on my journey with
a
great deal of ease. No one
can believe, what an influence unbelievers have on my
spiiit.
She then remained silent for
a
few minutes, and then
said:
.'My guides have entertained mc by an agreeable
conversation, which
I
am not to withhold from you, and
although what
I
am going to say, will not prove very ac
ceptable to
a
number of those present, —although well
disposed yet can't
I,
nor dare
1
remain silent.
I
have
to tell you again
:
repent and turn to the Lord your God
!
For
I
can tell you, that even
if
a
person dies happy?
l79
ft seldom directly removed to the Sun, except children,
<>r if once any one reaches the Sun he has already attain
ed the highest state of bliss. Let no one speak a useless
,;word, let every one love his fellow-man true and faith -
:yuUy ; do net rejoice, if any of your fellew-men should
jujricet with misfortune, curse none, even if he should have
iver so heavily offended against you. I cannot sufficiently
. charge you, what a difference it makes, if any one leaves
his world with an unreconciled heart ; such a one cer-
oiiiainly never becomes blessed. Every virtue has in the
uoifrowns 0f the blessed its own pearl. To tell and propo-
:ate lies is a very great sin ; he that lies, puts himself on
i level with Satan. To overreach any one in trade is
iqual to theft. To rob him secretly, by cunning and
iorce :.s a sin, which if it should pass without impunity
in this world, not made amends for and be confessed,
ivith a penitent and sincere heart, which even in eterni
ty will not be forgiven. Let no one believe, that to ro'),
cheat and overreach a person, that is rich and wealth jis
KJt minor offence, than to commit such an act against one,
fofJMio
is poor and indigent ; the sin is the same, so say my
.nce|uides, I cannot sufficiently enlbree
it,
of what moment
fidelity is, in all our actions, for every one will be judged
ml; kecording to the degree of fidelity exhibited by him, in
SJi.i|egard to all, that was entrusted to him,
in
this world.
uihe
" Murders, which in this world, remained unpunished,
.
n^jneonfessed and forgiven, by means of sincere repen-
f
stance, will meet with no pardon to all eternity. Sui-
procides will not be judges according
by
the same rule, for
3
Mlmy guides say, that the gradations are very diverse in
n
nl,
this respect, that of idolatry there
is
an infinite variety,
'
yet still the same, and that he, who loves and adores any
w object more than God, commits
a
heavy and great sin
;
that this one of the offences, not only acknowledged,
eJye
committed by so many millions of men, yet without their
alll;
being aware, that they are sunk so deep in this sin. My
K. guides tell me, that there
is
such
a
vast number of sins,
rf/; as to be unaccountable, and inasmuch as so few men ever
are
arrive at
a
vivid knowledge of their sins,
it
is, that in
j;i
proportion to the aggregate number but so few attain
a
l,c
state of felicity. For this reason
I
am so often called upon,
!.
^rs::uJ:«r' r..v'i!rtb oupi .
r
:\ ;,..". , :»s
180
to call mankind to repentance ; be therefore net aggriev
ed, when 1 am compelled to speak an that subject. My
brother says : "Besides shewing vou the great glory of
felicity, the task has also been enjoined upon me, to tell
the people of your sinful world their faults, and to caM
them to repentance : Although eveTr.y word you say by
higher commandment, is recorded, plainly, and serious
ly in the word of God, yet may your voice, as extraordi
nary, not be without good effect. Tell your sinful world,
that the judgments of God, impending ovtr it,iare nigh
at hand, let them believe it or not?'
After a short pause, she resumed ':
" Now I am in the Sun, —how delightful 'is it to be
here! all the angels here present are as incapable, as-*
am, by words sufficiently to express all its divine glory.
My Guides tell me, that this sun obtains, its light
from another sun, much larger and millions of miles
further distant from that sun, which illuminates the
Earth, and add, that God remains unfathomable and un-
scrutable to the most blessed of spirits, for there is ne
end to his empires. In that sun, from which the sun of
our universe derives his light, I shall not come, my guide
tells me, but that I shall reach that sun, in which is the'
New Jerusalem, and that then there shall be an end to
my journeys ;—nor should I absolutely be capable to
bear more. Now I am permitted to look down upon the
Earth j if my guides did not so distinctly point her but to
me, I should not perceive her at all, for she appears to me
like a large point of the bigness of a middle sized pin'i
head ; and yet, say my guides, are crimes committed
thereon, so great, that they rise to the highest heavens.)
"Now I am conducted into a hall, in which children
are from two to thpee
years of age. They were restore*
hither partly from the first degree and partly also
from the Earth ; and I am informed, that of halls
for this age, there are a great many more in the
Sim. Those children, who from their birth, to the
third year come directly in the empire of the children im
mediately continues to progress. But children may die,
from the fourth to the ninth year of their ages, who are
not always removed amongst the class of children of their
age j for those kthere are again different institutiens^
wherein the/ are'cducated, because they are not equal in
^knowledge to such as are younger, nor some of them al
together pure, especially those of from four to nine years
old, because there being already several, who are not im
mediately placed in the sun ; the whole of them however
gradually grow up to the same destination. The glory
amougst these children is already somewhat greater, than
with those, who have net.yet completed their first year."
,*.
My guides tell me, the Mother
of
Jesus Chri.it the
i'on
of
God, has the first and highest supervision over
these children, that she
is
a
queen oyer the same, yet that
she too receives her behests from the throne of God.
That the mother of (rod enjoys
a
great and high state of
fe
licity, and conies frequently into the New Jerusalem, the
dwelling place ui'the 'FrinUy, out that with the government
#
of God she dare not interfere, which
I
am to declare openly
aiul freely: For that alons " the blood of Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, cleanseth us from all sin'; and that no
one that
is
blessed can teach God anything new, not- that
any one doai attempti', this being
a
privilege only enjoyed
by the son of God, to whom Gotl
is
known, more than to any
one eUe, because he w identified with God. My guides
yet add
:
that
if
all the hosts of heaven stood congrega
ted together, they Mould be unable, to express in the
:riost remote sense the inscrutable greatness of God."
When she had said this she uttered
a
sigh from the
bottom of her heart, and soon after continued as follows
:
" Children in
a
state of bliss generally receive other
names, appropriate to the blessed
-;
they are also con
stantly visited by both the created angels and the spirits
of the happy defunct, here present, for to all of them
they are
a
source of the greatest detight."
Besides this
I
shall perform sixteen more journeys to
the Sun, but during the same
I
shall not have much more
to state, than what
I
have said already, only that the glo-
;ry and magnificence which
I
shall behold, will each time
be greater. and as
I
shall daily perform two and three,
nay one day five journeys thither, my respective stays
in
the same will not be of long duration."
" This night at nine o'clock
1
shall perform my third
journey to the Sun, during my passage thither
I
shall yet
l6
, IS2
have to give some serious admoeition relati ve to the same'
particular heavy sins." -, . ".
" I am already on my return. Ere I commence my
third journey, I shall lock myself up in m v chamber, ami
in private address a prayer to Godj during that spaing, of
time disturb me not." r;«jl
" Now 1 am back, mv eyes will open and appear
quite dim." -
V?*^*
This actually proved to be the case, immediately after
she caused herself to be wakened, in the marmer hereto
fore mentioned, and her demeanor was quite friendly and
aff'ectionate, and her eyes had entirely regained their
clearness.
'Third Journey into the Sun.
On the same day, (the 31st of December) at half past,
eight o'clock in the evening, she went unexpectedly into
her chamber, and bolted herself in, so that no one could
enter to her. Every thing remained quiet in the setting-
room, but through the key-hole, she was seen on her
knees, in the attitude of praying —only now and then a
sound being heard to escape her lips. Six minutes be
fore nine, she entered the room, immediately went to
bed, and when the clock struck nine, she said :,
" Now my journev begins, I shall again require -eigh - ;
.teen minutes to complete it : as soon as I shall have
•passed the first degree of the unhappy, I shall receive my
guides." , .
She then remained still for a few minutes and then re
sumed as follows :
" Now 1 am going to tell you, what at the instance of
my brother, I have yet to disclose, although I have
once already spoken of
it,
yet not sufficiently ex
plicit
;
namely this: that in fornication many in
fanticides are committed,
a
sin, which
is
alaa but
too frequently in actual wedlock, and these are called
183
t
liy the apos tie Paul secret sins: Parents, who commit
tfcis sin, are in some measure punished in this world
Already for having forcibly prevented the obtain-
'
ing that number of children, which had been intended for
Them, those children which they have, usually being de.
*
generate or cripples, whom they live to see "grow up in-
misfortune and disgrace ; and that the responsibility,
which such parents incur is excessively, heavy. That
the sin of adultery is by no means less aggravated, than
this. That baggery —what this sin consists in I did not-
cven know —and sins of Sodomy, so called, are with it
on the same level. My guides tell me that it is impossi
ble for them, to fmprcss me sufficiently with the abomi-
nableness of these sins—that some sinners of this latter
description assume forms of beasts in the other world. —
L am to declare it freely, that those persons, who have in-
euired these sins-j have lost all grace of God, for they
commend themselves, when they rise and lay down,r
neither to God, nor his grace. He that omits to pray —
stands up—I must say it — naked; for then the devil, tho
world, their own flesh and blood, the original sin, have
all free access. Be sure never, to neglect your prayers!*
My guides tell me, that all these sins stand with .suicide
and murder, in the closest connexion."
I have asked my guide ? whether it be possible, that
such sinners can be saved ? to which they replied, that
no sin is so great, as not to be forgiven to man, provided
he truly repent, become duly converted, and be truly
sorry therefor, and also partially confess the same to
others. But such a state of repentance and conversion
are not so easily acquired, but require a much longer
space of time and perseverance in. doing good. That if
a person from a diminution of his strength should leave off
sinning, it will absolutely not be deemed as if he had be
en me converted, much less could it be expected, that he
will be pardoned; it being a matter of but too great regret,,
that so few of this description arrive at a lively sense of
their offences. That they are those, of whom the Reve-
* Qu this admonition she laid particular stress.-
1841
'
» . - -
1'ation of St. John says : For without are iWgs, atttl
sorcerers, and whoremongers>,-and murderers, and idola
ters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie." 01' these
not one. will escape the third degree of damnation, if be
fore he did not truly repent." '.
I pray you all with all my might, let no one put off his*
repentance, until his death-bed, for such incur .great
danger, livery case of real conversion requires time, it
is most assuredlv the work of a moment. 1 hat which is
done by man in the seasou c>f faith, is of great impoi--
tance, compared with what he cat) do, on the other side
of the grave, should hejeven fare tolerably well there, in
asmuch as-every thing must be effected by means of see
ing and experience, fur there the progress is but slo\v.--r
I dare not leave it unmentioneil, that the moon too has
its divisions, and if even a man is at once removed from
hence directly into the Moon, he will still have to pass all
the gradations therein, if his' progress is not at once for
ward, ere he can be promoted to a higher state of felicity-'
Those in particular, who come from the first degree ofthe
unhappy into the moon, have to pass on it through all the
degrees, the higher one rises, the happier he becomes. —--
The same is likewise the case in the other stars. .
She made a short pause, but soon after said :
" Now 1 am up. To-day I am introduced to the-
abodes of such children, as are in the eighth and ninth
years of their age ; I know of no reason to assign foriK.
These are the last children, that arc yet under the care
of female nurses, bat they remain under tuition of in
structors, who again have their teachers. My teachers
say ; that although they are als» teachers, they have al
so notwithstanding their instructors, 'receiving lessons
from -the created angels. Until »tty> one, that camu
hither, be removed from the Sun into a higher state of
bliss, a considerable period of time elapses, the number of
gradations in the Sun being a great many* The inhabi
tants ofthe Sun are able and permitted to make visits,
having previously. received permission, extending as far a9
theNew Jerusalem, butthey neither can nor dare take up.
then-abode there forever; inasmuch as theorderof the Dei
ty is not to be transgressed in the least, _A.s it respects
185
professors of the word of God and in the schools, who'
came from the Earth into the Sun, and of whom several
were conducted to a state of felicity on account of
the zeal and fidelity in the service of the Lord, they
enjoy extraordinary privileges and the same is also the
case, with those rulers, that were particularly well dis
posed and pious, whether their dominions were large or'
small."
" But what a judgment, responsibility, and condemna
tion, those professors incur, who are lazy, live immoral,
and prove themselves unfaithful in the service of their
Lord and master, who is Jesus Christ, is, as my guides
say inexpressible 5- for the souls of all those, who
perish by their faults,- whether it be by their con
duct, doctrine, &c. are all demanded from them J*—
imagine, say ivy guides, the charges against them in-
the regions of the unhippy and the damned! The du- .
ties incumbent en rulers involve great difficulty. 1 am
ashamed of myself, that ere now 1 had such little know
ledge and so few ideas, concerning so many things, and
•
that so much did hitherto not even enter my mind. My
brother has several times appeared surprised at my igno
rance, on the other hand some questions have now and
then excited his surprise, which were put to him by me."
« My return will soon commence, The degree of
bliss, enjoved by the children, is commensurate with their
ages. Into a city I shall this day not be conducted, but
into a very large building and into a hall, This contams
a great many; the children are -therein divided into'
classes, and have many teachers, and I also perceive here
books of instruction. The hall excels in beauty, and the
appearance of the children with their crowns and in their
attire is more than splendid ; and I am entirely at a loss,
how to admire that love and harmony enough, which
reigns amongst them. Around the building there are
gardens and other open squares, which however yield
. but little to the gardens in beauty. I am this day taken
into no garden, but what gardens these are! —the more I
see of them, the more splendid and beautiful they are:—
My return has already commenced. Not far from ths
I86
building, in which I was. lies a large city, but into which
l'have not been conducted.
The name of this city was not stated by her, nor has
she inadvertently been asked it. It was observed that
she had a conversation with her guides ; al ter a silence,
protracted for a few minutes, she resumed as follows :
" I have ask«<[ my guides, where those children have
their dwelling places in the abodes of felicity, who were
so cruelly slain by order of the then kinp: Herod, when
our Redeemer was born ? — to which I received the fol
lowing answer ; These have all been removed, -as Mar
tyrs, for the sake of the sole Saviour of the world Jesus
Christ, into the New Jerusalem ; these are the l44,000,
who sing the new song before the throne, before thefour
beasts, and before the elders, these are those, that have
never poluted themselves with women, for they are bach
elors. They are bought from the human race, as a first- .
ling to God and the Lamb. But as my guides add, these
are by far not all tire elect, these composing but one hosf, .
there being a great many more, and. here and there con
sisting of a much larger number, but all of them accor
ding to their respective kinds and deeds."
"After a little pause she said :
*S My guides have now repeatedly accompanied me on
ly tO IS? spot, where I passed by the first degree of the
unhappy and there also received me. There is one again,
that wants to keep me company, but much as. it grieves
me, I have to turn every one back ; if t then represent
to such beings, the impossibility of my being of any man
ner of service to them, which they themselves also know
but too well, they retire. v
She was then asked : why she never mentioned any of .
them by name ? when she replied : *
"How often have 1 not told you already, that I dare
never do it; my guide has told me several times, that
this would be
counteracting the laws of eternity, to be
further molested with such questions, would sadly afflict
me. Now I am returned. Brother waken me in the
manner I told you." ..
'' When she awoke the clock struck ten i full of love
and hilarity she said :
187 .
,
" No paroxysm-shall this day attack me, this is all I
fcnow." .
She then conversed with the persons present, during
not quite ten additional minutes, and t'.ien fell into a
sound natural sleep. Not before half past seven o'clock
the succeding morning she awoke, fel-t refreshed and was-
^uite "cheerful.
Coteiiiiuation of the Journeys into the Sun%
As it respects the remaining fifteen journeys into the
sun, that which'can bo related of each particular journey
will be stated in the following ; .it must however be gen
erally remarked here, that the further she proceeded,
the more delightfully she described the glories of felicity. .
Very often she admired the infinite Universe of God, of
which* she repeatedly spoke as follows:
'i Looking again afterwards from the sun, it is in re
gard to the heaven of stars, the same, as
if,
duringa clear
night we on earth were contemplating the firmament
;
only with this great difference, that from the sun, the
stars are also visible in the time of day, because in the
blessed eternities night no longer ensues. Here
itj
is-
much lighter and clearer, than when on earth we have
the purest day and most unclouded sky, on earth there
is
but twi-lighl, compared with the clearness, that prevails
on the sun. The atmosphere
is
lighter and more ratified-;
a
cloud never obscures it, .and
a
change in the air never
happens. Its temperature
is
not debilitating, nor oppres
sive, but the air
is
full of the most delightful odours. In
the sun there are also mountains, but which are not very
high, yet of the most pleasing form. Cities, gardens And
flowers
I
have not seen any yet whatever, but trees are -
here in abundance, on many of which
I
have observed
the most delicious fruits. Forests and rivers are also in
the sun, but animsls
I
perceive hone."
?
4
My guides tell me
;
that
if
i
were to visit the..eat
.
188
and behold every thing in detail, that would be sheiva
me, and according to the menner of man, I should re
quire many thousand years for the purpose."
hi her
Fourth Journey into the Sim,
she amongst other things, said the foljowing:
" fain this time led into a city, which bears the name
of the son of God, Iii the meeting hall of the same/
where the children are from four to five years of age, 1
see the mother of our Saviour^ seated as upon an altar,
her crown and garments are quite majestic ; 1 can hard
ly look upon her for clearness and. glory, her crown is
adorned with'three strings of the most precious pearls."
" My guides tell me, that it is not owing to the part,
of having born the Son of God the Almighty, that it i*
attributable to this she enjuys this high slate of felicity,
but that from the time of his conception, and mosftender
infancy she felt convinced that he was no common hu- .
man being, that there was actually something divine in
him, and that she remained undaunted, . until the end of
her life, in her humility, fidelity, and faith towards him,
and in the observance and keeping of his commandments,
that so high a place of honor has been assigned to her.
My guides tell me, that if God makes use of a person for
the execution of great deeds, it gives him not the least
advantage in regard to his salvation, if he, like the lowest,
does not become truly repentant and neglects to turn
with all his heart and soul to the Lord his God ; but that
those, who at the same time are unmindful of the ways
of God, prepare themselves a great judgment."
''My guides tell me also; that the conception of oar
Saviour will remain a secret to all eternity, both to the
created angels, and those that died happy. The curse:
« I will greatly 'multiply thy sorrow ; in sorrow thou shalt
bring forth children," had no reference to the mother tl
our Saviour, for He as David says, "was not shapea ».
fttiquity, nor iu bu» did his toother conceive himJ*
V ISO
Of her
Fifth Journey into the Sun..
the following statements can begivfn:
« I am this day conducted into a magnificent garden,
the inclusure around the same, and the gates into
it,
ara.
exceedingly beautiful. This garden is crowded with
angels* both such as were created, as these that died hap
py
5
there are also, a number of children here. Alt the
paths ate however narrow again, of trees there
is
no,
abundance, but of Bowers there is
;
these exude a scent
bo delightful and strong, that
l
am as
it
were overcome
thereby, Into
a
hall
I
shall not come this day, but into
.
a
marvellously beautiful city, whosti appellation
is
Noha.
During her passage through the city, no symptoms
jverc observed on her, since those indicative, of great ad
miration, having passed through
it,
she said
:
"1 pass again through
a
garden, which
is
exceedingly
beautiful,
if
an invigorating water was not given me by
my fellow-guide Goelz,
I
should become too weak. My
brother has during my journey
h
'into the stars reminded
me of the charms,
1
would find in the sun
;
but he has
told me by far the least, for every thing
is
much hand
somer and more magnificent,, than what he has stated."
Oa the
2
\
of- January she performed' ,.
the Sixth and Seventh Journeys into the Sun.
In pursuance of permission previously givc-:i by her,,
applications were made to her during the same, each
time on her passage thither. She again described every
thing as much more splendid than before, tset with pastor
Sens
;
and one of the elect, whom she knew on earth,
and was taken to the children of six and seven'years.
She again saw tha mother of the Son of God, apparently
seated upon
a
throne, and finally imparted cnergeitc
admonitions calling upon all to exerciscthe strictest vigi-
liance. «
'
I00
The Eight and A'inth Journeys Into tJie Sun^
were performed on the 3d of January.
On these she was conducted to nochildren, but to old
persons, who had grovVn up to the enjoyment of the fe-
Ifcities in the sun, but did not describe them more expli
citly. She re;nai fc.ed, that the exceedingly gr^nt glory.
music and sinking, which she witnessed, were almost in
supportable to her, being much weakened thereby and
well needing the aid of her two guides, and that she
would have to succomb, if not strengthend from above,.
on account of the super-abundant glory, prevailing there.
Before she awoke from her ninth journey, she said :
"To-morrow I must make live journeys into the sun ;
the first will begin at nine, the second at twevle, tbo
third at three, the fourth at five, and the fifth at seven
o'clock."
She was asked, if the two journeys of to-day having
weakened her so much, how she would fare on five jour
neys ? to which she replied:
'
'.'pod, who has selected me for this, will grant me the
necessary strength, I am not uneasy on that score. Do
not during my performance direct too many questions to
me about remedies."'
When she awoke from her ninth journey, she wr*.
quite weak .
The Tenth, Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth
Fourteenth Journeys into the Sun,
i
took place on the 4th of January,.
The whole of them only consisted in repeated account* .
of recurring glory and beauties, the last ever excelling
fhe former, she came during the same to no more chil.
llren, hut to adults, and created angels, and extolled
their constantly increasing love, harmony and content
ment. Amongst other things she stated the existence oa
the sun of two small mountains,' serving rather as ar>
ornament to the environs ; having perceived.no larg«.
191
—
,
.i
snee. Cities, gardens and. the open places excelling
every thing in marvellous beauty, of these she^said:
" Refrain from asking me to make terrestrial compari
sons, it would be impossible for me to do so. If all the
angels, should every one -Speak with one hundred thou
sand tongues, they would still be far from being able to
express even a part of these gleties."
During one of these journeys two doctors of medicine
were present, one of whom caused this absurd question
to be put -to her ; whether the damned have also horns
and feet like goats ? After a short pause she answered v.
" The damned which I saw, looked abominable, but-
with horns and fvet like goats, I have perceived none.
Their forms pre more than loathsome. Let him, who
caused this question
t<>
be put to me, well beware that
he, by his own experience, may not become acquainted
with those of the third degree, for his fate would then be
Eiost deplorably unfortunate."
As often as she fell asleep, her form always assumed
a
clearer and more supernatural appearance, which dl-
-
ways became more so, the more her weakness increased.
After every journey she had to be awakened. — Her natu
ral sleep after the fourteenth journey was very refresh
ing.
On the 5th and 6th of January she performed
. ilie Fifteenth, Sixteenth, Seventeenth and Eighteenth
Journeys into the Sun.
During those journeys she came upon
a
mountain,
which was not very high, into several gardens and cities.
The fallowing are her statements.
"My guides have
in
these journeys again conducted
,
me somewhat higher, than what agreeably to order,
I
should have been taken.
I
again see every thing much
more perfectly, then whnt'I did 'before. Of angels from
the fountain head there are many present, and the name
of each stands on his back with more than brilliant char
acters in gold,
a
distinction not possessed
by
those who
192
came from the earth, being a particular one, which they
also have on their crowns. My guides tell me that it m
the chief office of these angels to bring the happy defunct
who attain directly from earth a higher state of bliss.'—
Those that are at once taken- fiom the earth into tlie sun,
> or into the New Jerusalem,' are even brought with inusrc
and songs, but that of these. general I y speaking-, excepting
children, the number consists in but y.ery few ; that at
the sight of these the sun resoutftis with hosanahs and re
joicings. The blessed spirits, which I meet with on
these journeys, that have come hither from the earth, re-
flecta sunny ray from their eyes, which is also general! y
the case with the created anjrels, but in a still higher
degree.'
I acknowledge freely, that the glory, ransic and sing
ing, which I witness, are almost insufferable to me and
that if not previously strengthened for my journeys into
'
the New Jerusalem, I would be totally unable, to support
the same. That love, harmony and contentment and the
friendly conversations, which prevail between the created
angels, and those that came over from the earth, I can
by far not extol enough ; the latter receive instructions
from the created angels. Here it may be said with the
greatest truth that this is a real brother —and sisterhood . -
Jiet no soul imagine, that amongst the blessed any act
.of infidelity, of self-conceit, or what would be worse, of
superciliousness can in the remotest sense find place in
the least. ; here every thing here is clear and pure. My
guides tell me, that any thing like deceit absolutely can
and dare not obtain with the blessed, from the lowest to
the highest degree, that every one is not only satisfied
with his own felicity, but that he also is fully convinced,
that what he is, he is merely from pure "grace and mer
cy, for the sake of Jesus Christ; that every one deems
himself more than blessed, and that already the presen
timent. of the certainty of further promotion, increases
their felicities more and more. Blessed spirits are here
of all religious denomination, tongues and languages,
among which children are not alone to be understood.
My guides say, the sun is not empty, but there would
still be room tor innumerable millions.
193
*« The heavenly bodies beneath the sun, all receive
their light from the sun, which illuminates the earth. We
believe, when we contemplate the firmament during du
ring a clear night, that the stars nearly all stand at an
-equal heighth, but that this is far from being the fact,
for they stand far, very far from each other j of those,
which stand beyond the sun, but the very fewest are visi
ble from the earth. If mankind would be but mindfal
of the creations of God, in the least degree, which are
above them, should not every one think how it can be pos
sible, that not every person should believe in the Almighty
Creator of Heaven and Earth! I will net speak of those,
who acknowledge no Redeemer, nor Holy Ghost, —nor
wish to hear a reward for good and punishment of evil."
."My guides tell me, how-much the trinity is concerned,
that every human being be saved, angels themselves are
incapable to express, but they add, that by this want of
volition, nay this forced, wanton and even wicked re
nunciation of these so immensely great felicities the dei
ty does not lose the least in regard to her high dignity,
and glory. These Wretches prejudice God by this, not
in- the least, but only themselves, and do-so by their own
fault, the deity all the time remaining freehand pure.—
In the Sun I have heard an infinite number of words
spoken, which even to repent, I should be incapable, but
. on the other hand I have reason to feel ashamed, that I
have known and understood but too little, of what I
might have said ."
During these journeys she also indicated many impor
tant cures, but it is to be regreted, that they were not
every where used agreeably to her prescriptions, and
therefore were often underrated.
Comtcration for the Journtys into the JVet*
Jerusalem.
Dorme one of her last journeys to the sun she once said:
that on the 7th of January, but not before eight V«teofc
17
I94 .
she would perform a journey, on which she would be con
secrated for the journeys, which she would be permitted
to make to the New Jerusalem. That day she remained
mostly out of bed, conversed much with her -relations,
and those, who visited her ; but took very little nourish
ment the whole day, complained of no particular feeble
ness, but remained always in good a humor.
It did nut quite want six minutes to eight, when unex
pectedly to every one, she fell asleep, whilst in sitting
posture, whereupon she was immediately taken to bed.
The moment the clock struck eight, her guides appeared
and immediately after she said:
"One of my brothers is not present, bring him direct
ly, for I do not wish, that during this solemn act he
should not be present."
Amongst the many persons, that were attending, no
one was particularly missed ; but she gave the names of
those persons, in whose company her brother was at the
time ; on his return —whilst already on her journey— she
addressed him as follows :
" Dear brother, I entreat you for the sake of Jesus
Christ, nay his sufferings, and death, shun and avoid all
bad company! If even nothing remarkably sinful should
happen, during your intercourse with them, it is for this
reason surprising and injurious, because foul talk takes
place, which tends not to improvement and repentance :
And I have the more to encourage you in that is good, in
piety and every virtue, as you shall soon have to leave
your paternal house and encounter a sinful world, where
innumerable temptations await you.* I recommend to
you the following verse from the hymn : Jesus thy deep
wounds &c. No. 47, in the old Wirtemberg Hymn
Book:
"Does the world your heart assail,
With seduction's vvonton wiles —
Do not taste her tempting pleasures,
'Tis the serpent you beguiles.
* This brother was however neither unmannerly nor
disobedient, but only loved sociable conversation. ;.
m
To the cross direct your looks
Where your bleeding Saviour suffers—
The:\ with devotion's sacred effort, *
Will you spurn the \vorld',s offers."
*. .
"~How happy will you then feel one "day, when cn
your death bed, if you can say j
'
''That I have share in Thee
Is my comfrrt, guard and joy —
.-
*
For thy grace will iirpart
Eternal j1>ys, without alloy —
insurrection, ah! this word)
Draws ihee lo my Saviour Lord."
" What I just now told. my brother, has also reference
to every other individual."
The forgoing verses—the last strophe of which
being from the same hymn —she had never comtnited
to memory. —She then exhorted every one in general
most fervently to love God and their neighbours, as welt
as to- be trulv Iwroble and charitable toad, that are
poor and indigent. Then she railed upon every one
present lo ad diss a silent, prayer to God, in consideration
of her consecration, saying:
"This is the last that will take place ; for the ensuing
journeys 1 shall bu consecrated by a servant of God,
namely John Jirndt. — Now [ am up upon a mountain
called Golgotha, on which stands nothing but a Temple.
During this consecration two created angels aUo appear,
besides r; v two guides, as witnesses; before my introduc
tion into the temple, a more than refreshing water is han
ded me to drink of, by the created angels. —Now I poor
worm of tile earth, I am conducted into the temple."
After a silence of seven minutes she said:
'' Now my consecration is past. —Jirndt appeared at
once, and without my taking notice, falso withdrew.-
With what a divine clearness, glory and crown on his
head, h« appeared with what a high dignity and benign
words he blessed me, 'it is impossible for me, to express ;
could you but have heard a sinjrle word, you would have
- . 196
dropped to the ground. Notwithstanding tiiis Atnit
shewed nothing but affection and affability towards me,
and the fourwitnesses ; the thought then occurred to me:
if the servants of God are so dignified and glorious, how
,much more must God himself be so! The two created
angels laid their hands upon me and pronounced a short
benediction over me, ere they retired."
" I have asked my two guides, whether I was then ac
tually worthv of such favor and grace ? to which they
replied : If God deems you worthy to receive it. you will
have to compose yourself, but never elevate yourself for
that reason above your fellow-men, but continue \o cher
ish humility, in faith, love and hope, God will finish and
terminate all with glory,"
Having remained silent for five minutes, she said:
" My journey is accomplished and my. guides have left
me ; brother waken me."
When she awoke her features retained traces of pecu
liar gladness, yet united with seriousness, but which
gradually disappeared the more she returned to a state of
wakefulness. She then conversed for two hours in ad
dition with those that were present, accompanied their
voices in ^singing hymns, and then demanded, that the
faithful might stay -a while longer with her.
Journeys io the New Jerusalem.
Of these she performed twelve, the events of which
must also be related collectively, because her statements
were mostly of the same tenor:
To accomplish a journey thither, she required thirty i
minutes, but to return, but eighteen, because the descent
she said was much more rapid, but her sojourn lasted
never longer than twelve minutes, so that each respective
journey was peformed in one hour. On her first journey
she stated already, that she would always have to discribo
the glories, witnessed by her, as equally transcendent;
she then said further; ' i
l97
'' There exists not one city only, in which God has a
dwelling place like that, which ha has here. —God pos
sesses more such, which not only do not yield to this in
glory, but far surpass it. My guides tell me, that they
themselves, are not yet qualified, to travel in order (o be
hold these higher felkites, but that only those blessed
spirits possess this faculty, who dwelt in the New Jeru
salem; that they can go on journeys, but, that it is as
impossible for them to unravel the greatness of God, as
it is to themselves, because the creations of God continue
to all eternity. My guides tell me, that God has also his
residence in a sun, distant, many, many millions of miles
from -that sun, which is visible to us. J again behold
from this as many stars, as I have seen from the earth.
and from the sun ; I am entirely at a loss, what, trans
ported by a setise of exceedingly great admiration, I shall
say of the infinite grandeur of God,"
'. Oi if only mankind would reflect on the greatness of
God, according to the common understanding bestowed
upon them by the deity, and according to those objects,
which daily strikes their vision, it would be hardly possi
ble, that an Atheist could exist on this earth. If I could
but as vividly imagine the greatness of God. when awake. .
as it is shown to me in my cataleptic sleep, I should be
ukogether incapable to prolong my existence in this
world."
On every precedent journey her admiration of the-
greatness of God rose higher and higher, so that she could5
hardly cease' speaking thereof and if all her descrip
tions should be literally taken down, several. pages might
be filled therewith.
,
Touching the New Jerusalem, she already on her first
journey thither spoke .of it as follows:
"Had 1 not during my consecration been particularly
strengthened lor tt.it would be impossible for me to bear
all this glory. True, St. John has correctly depicted it
in- his Revelation but it is far, far mote transcendent..
The city, on account »f its immesse size, cannot be over
looked in one view, it is quile four- square, the length,
and the breadth, and the height of it are equal. Quite in
ttve centre of the city stands the dwelling of^the nutst
198
High. The city has many and immensely great -streets,
which are not very wide, but the main streets are of con
siderable width. One gate rises above the other, namely
three on three, but the sentinels do not stand at the en
trance of the gates, but above, on the gates, for they are
not here to protect the city, but merely to serve as an or
nament, because any thing that detileth, neither whatso
ever wdrketh abomination can in no wise enter."
" During my twelve journeys butone gate is each time
shewn to me, whence, at no great distance, lam conduc
ted into the Cityj The gates are composed of precious
stones, yet not joined together, but as it were, consisting
of one mass."
"She then described the gates as follows, namely : the
fifst is white as marble j the second blue like the sky;
the third red as lire, but with a dark-red lustre; the fourth
green, like fresh-grown grass ; the filth of p.n apparantly
light-red colour, intermingled with seemingly small white
stripes ; the sixth of a still deeper red ; the seventh a
deep yellow ; the eighth dark green ; the ninth again of
another green colour, apparently subsiding into yellow ;
the tenth not very unlike the latter colour, but of a yel
lower tint ; the eleventh more yellow than red; the
twelfth violet, mixed as it were with dark-red stripes. —
She further expressed herself concerning it thus : ,
" Rut how splendidly these gates shine, I am incapa
ble to express, if the rays, they reflect, did not strike me
at a distance, and if my guides had given me an explana
tion of the various colours of the precious stones, it would
•have been beyond my power, to say any thing definite
on the subject. In a mirror we may behold ourselves,
but the lustre of the precious stones is so great, that we
cannot see ourselves therein ; this would exactly appear
to me, as if looking into the Sun, we expected to see our
own figures, as in a mirror." -
"The walls around the city are shining white, the
buildings of the purest gold, like unto a clear mirror,
and Hie streets so likewise, - The buildings are quite
alike, save the one, which is the habitation of God bijn-
self, "and forms a great exception ; if I cast but a single
glance upon the same, 1 feel, as if I should sink down
190
and as if it were impossible to endure a sight of its bright
ness for but half a minute. The sun himself compared
with this more than transcendent clearness, is but a dark
body, not even to mention the Stars. The windows in
the buildings are so shining white, as to render their
brilliancy almost insufferable. In addition, imagine also
its height, and it must become evident, that the whole
united, cannot but surpass all comprehension."
-< '.The gates stand respectively on one side of wing,
three and three. together, yet not very close to, and at
proportionate distance sfrom each other; yet not
withstanding, can the dwelling-place of the most high be
seen from each gate. I am not led by my guides into its
immediate vicinity. I see many of the servants walk
about, some of whom have been named to me by my
guides." v
" I ajso asked about the one hundred fourty-four thou
sand, concerning whom 1 already had made enquiry when
I was in the sun, when my guides'informed me of their
being in the building, and actually singing. Whilst I
stood contemplating all the grandeur, beauties and glo
ry before me, I entirely lost the sense of hearing ; not
until my attention was directed to it, I heard, besides
the harps, also a loud sound of trumpets ; it would be
impossible, long to bear this sweet and delightful music.
T11 my four last journeys to the sun I have also listened
to thesounding of harps and trumpets, whi.ch was almost
insufferable to me, but is by no means to be compared
with that which now I hear."
" In all the streets of the city, I see an unaccountable
number of angels, amongst whom I am told, there are
many, that came hither from the Earth ; but the number
of those who came over straight from the Earth, I am
assured the number consists of but very few. Amongst
several whose names were mentioned me bynny guide, I
only know John Jirndt, by whom I was consecrated for
these journeys. Others, w.hom I formerly indicated as
servants of God, and who were also promoted to a high
state of bliss, still required improvement, but enjoy now
as great a share of felicity, as Jirndt." .
" Each door in the New Jerusalem has its own proper
200
name written thereon in Hebrew ; their beauties having
twice, as it were, enraptuied me and excited my aston
ishment, I neglected to ask questions concerning the.
same. If I had as many tongues, as there are grain* of
sand on all the sea-shores of the world, 1 should by far
be incapable, to express the greatness and glory of God.
which have been shewn to me in so short a space of time. ''
.'"The felicity and glory, which exist in the New Jt-
rusalcm excel all others by far, although the latter are
also, without exception, most glorious and divinely beau
tiful. Around it there are nothing but gardens, divided off
agreeably to the plan of the streets, Into a garden how
ever, 1 am not conducted, although f see in these gardens,
larger and .thicker trees, than in these heavenly bodies,
1 have visited. 01 flowers and shrubs I can also give no
account, but well do I scent the sweetness of their odours,
the whole air being full thereof. Our finest seasons of
the day, are in comparison with the brightness in which
God dwells, like the .darkness of night cam-pared 'with
the light at noon-day. No mortal would be able to en
dure but for a second the light thereof, for he would sud
denly drop down into a fit of unconsciousness. How
large the sun is, in which God dwells, and what other
cities it contains, I am unable to state ; what with all
the great glory I have seen. I have neglected a great ma
ny questions, I should have asked."
During each respective journey to the Sun, as well' as
the New Jerusalem, she always exhorted in the most
energetic manner to repentance and conversion ; descri
bing with inspiration the sublimity of felicity, as well as
the state of the unhappy and the damned, in all its
horrors.'
Although two reporters were always engaged, in re
cording what she said, whirst in a situation capable ti>
speak, yet was it not every time practicable, to take
down every word ; but if all' her exhortations, which al
ways accorded with the . pure'woH of God —all her state
ments of those felicities, she had witnessed from the
Moon to the New Jerusalem; her terrible description!
of the unhappy and the damned and their situation ; the
many remedies n so many cases ; should have b*eu eaA
201
mera ted, this book would have resulted to twice its size."
When her twelfth and last journey into the New Jeru
salem was accomplished, she being not doomed to per
form any more journeys into higher regions, took leave
form her, concerning which she stated the following :
'' My friend Goelz. said to me : " My dearest friend !
<'
although when you are awake, you cannot remember
*'the many and important revelations, which have been
** disclosed to you, — the eternal Wisdom having well or-
*' tlainetl it so —yet be ever mindful of what has been
*' written down and told you ; engrave it deeply not only
.' upon your heart, but also in your soul ; for
it'
you should
" relapse and not keep the commandments of God, you
"would more than load
a heavy responsibility upon
Lt yourself.
I
beseech you, by all that
i.s
divine and ho-
" ly, not only in eternity but also whilst yet in your sin-.
" Ful world, to remain forever faithful to the tri-une God,
" that no one may rob ypu of your crown. Strive with
" all the powers of your body and mind, that you may
" one day come into our company. True
it
requires
a
" re-nunciation of all that
is
sinful and displeasing to #'
" God, and
is
so called
;
but all this cannot bo put in
" the least competition with the reward." Ah with what
" earnestness did he not say to me
?
Remember Eternity
;
" the glorious felicities and
a
constant improvement.
"
Having uttered
a
deep sigh, she said
;
"
I
regret but too deeply, that
I
cannot express the
words so energetically, as they were pronounced
by
him
:
his last words were :"
u
The Lord bless thee and keep thee
:
the Lord make
,
" his face to shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee:
*
" the Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give
" thee peace, Amen." How great
is
the love, how inno
cent the looks which he regards and cast9 back upon me,
whilst lie leaves me. My first guide tells me, that he
will not yet bid me farewell, but shall yet pay me several
other visits, without, however, performing any more
jmuneys with me, saying only
;
"My dear sister; the
Almighty be with you! —"soon shall we see each other
again.
" ..
202
CONCLUSION.
Prom her first guttle she received several oiher visit*,
but journevs he did not perform with her any more.
During his presence, which, however each time became
shorter, s>he yet now and then stated sonic remedies. • On
the 15th of January, she commenced of her own accord to
»c the remedies she herself had suggested, which produ
ced the happiest effects, trueshe continued still to fall into
short slumbers-, but they were each time shorter and less
profound ; only in regard to her nervous and bodily system
her recovery was less rapid. With paroxysms she was
yet seized several times, bat they vrete not very violent.
Her, faculty of clear-seeing decreased faster, than it
had increased, as had been also predicted by her repeated
ly. When this situation of hers drew to a termination,
she stated, that she would fall but twice more into a cata
leptic sleep, namely, in three anil six months ; which prov
ed true to the day and the hour. During her last sleep she
had prescribed a remedy Kir a person in " Kaufbeyern,"
which, according to accounts received, did produce the
most desirable effects. At the termination of the last
sleep, she said : >
" My guide tells me, that although he will still visit me
frequently, yet he shall no longer render himself visible
to me. When he took leave, he' kissed me three times,
and reminded me of all he had told and shewn me, with
emphasis and great earnest.
1
His last words penetrated
through my marrow and bones, of this I can only repeat
the following : " Improve steadily in piety and the fear
"of the Lord, shun sin as you would the plague, Ihv no-
"thing is more contagious thansin ; men become not sin-
"ners at once, but sin increases jn them with the strides
" of a giant. Lose not the crown that has been shewri
«' you, and endeavor with all the faculties of your mini),
"one day to get into our company, for here we are i»
" happy, "eternally happy!"
203
-••Looking back upon me, with the most tender look, as
a brother, he has left ree suddenly.
"
Thus closes the history of one of the most remarkable
cases of somnambulism, true but briefly related. The
publisher for weighty reasons, had to leave out many par
ticulars in part, and others altogether, but can give the
most solemn assurance, that every thing has been stated
in this book with truth, without ornament and foreign
additions. Considering this declaration due to the dear
reader, he takes from him a most cordial leave, with a
sincere wish, that this book may answer the purpose for
which^it is intended, namely: the promotion of a true faith
in the promises of the holy word of God!
Revelations, 21. 7-
