{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__curtiss___inner_radiance.pdf","mytitle":"Inner Radiance","mylang":"de"}
THE
INNER RADIANCE
By
Dr. and Mrs. F. HOMER CURTISS
Founders of The Order of Christian Mystics
and The Universal Religious Fellowship. Inc.
Authors of 'The Curtiss Books
THIRD EDITION
TUE CURIISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
Hollywood, California
Copyright. 1935. by
THE UNIVERSAL RELIGIOUS FELLowsxIP INC.
Translation and all other rights reserved
LOWDOK ACZNTI
L. N. FOWLER & CO. LTD.,
29 Ludgate Hill.
Lcad, LC.4
Printed in Grsas Britain by
Lowe & Brydone (Printers) 144., London, N.W.1O
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
THE INNER RADIANCE . . . 1
TUE GOD MAN . . . . 11
As IN TUE DAYS OF NOAH . . 19
SPIRITUAL CO-OPERATION . . 28
MAN AND THE ZODIAC. PART I. THE
12 SIGNS . . . . . . 36
MAN AND THE ZODIAC. PdutT II. THE
CONSTELLATIONS . . . . . 45
THE LORD FROM HEAvEr . . . 53
Trn SOUL-LANGUAGE . . . . 61
TRANSMIGRATION. PART I. THE Doc-
TRINE . . . . . . . 71
TRANSMIGRATION. PART II. THE
ATOMS . . . . . 81
COSMIC CAUSES OF WORLD CONDITIONS,
AND THE REMEDY. PART I. PLAN-
ETARY AND KARMIC EACTORS . . 94
COSMIC CAUSES OF WORLD CONDITIONS,
AND TEE REMEDY. PART II. THE
REMEDY . . . . . 102
TUE Myric ROSE . . . . . 111
THE GREAT AND THE SMALL . . 121
THE LoEI)s OF KARMA. . . . 129
REDEMPTION . . . . . . 140
RELIANCE . . . . 149
THE Gr WORK . . . 157
KING DESIRE . . . . 168
V
vi Contents
CHAPTER PAGE
TUE MYSTERY OF TUE ELEMENTS. . 176
MAN AND THE ELEMENTALS. PART I.
EARTH AND WATER . . . . 188
MAN AND TIlE ELEMENTALS. PART II.
THE AIR . . . . . . 198
MAN AND THE ELEMENTALS. PART [II.
THE FIER . . . . . . 208
THE REALM OF BE-NESS . . . 216
SATURN AND CYCLIC LAW . . . 224
GOD, MAN AND THE PLANET. PART I.
THEIR RELATION . . . . 233
GOD, MAN AND TIlE PLNET. PART II.
THE Boox OF REMEMBRANCE . . 241
THE THIRD EYE . . . . 251
THE MOUNT OF ATTAINMENT . 258
THE ROUND TABLE. . . . 266
DIVINE FIRE. PART I. THE FIRE OF
LIFE AND MIND . . . . . 275
DIVINE FIER. PART II. THE BUDDHIC
FIRE . . . . . . . 286
TIlE GLORY OF THE LORD . . . 294
LESSONS BY TIlE WAY. PART I. THE
ANCIENT CONTINENTS . . . 303
LESSONS BY TEE WAY. PART II. LES-
SON OF THE SAGEBRUSH . . . 311
LESSONS BY THE WAY. PART III. NA-
TURE'S SYMBOLOGY . . . . 319
XXX VII. TIlE KING OF GLORY . . . . 327
THE CHRIST STAR. PART I. THE FIVE
POINTS . . . . . . . 337
THE CHRIST STAR. PART II. THE
SHEPHERDS AND THE WISE MEN . 345
XL PREPARATION . . . .. . . 354
PREFACE
The material for this volume has been available for several
years, but the long illness of Mrs. Curtiss, and the subse-
quent great growth of The Order of Christian Mystics as a
result of our extensive lecture tours and our exhibit at A
Century of Progress exposition in Chicago during 1933 and
1934, together with the tremendously increased activities
which followed, have further delayed its preparation for
publication.
But this delay has not been wholly unfortunate, as it has
enabled us to include several chapters dealing with present-
day conditions in the world which have been in great demand
and which we are glad to make available to all in permanent
form.
We trust that this new material will enable our readers
and students to understand more intelligently the revolu-
tionary conditions through which humanity is now passing,
while the more general philosophical and spiritual material
will give them both philosophical and scientific, as well as
spiritual, reasons for a greater realization of their vital and
personal relation to both the lower and the invisible king-
doms of lives which surround them in Nature, their relation
to their fellow-men, and to that great Cosmic Source of all
light, life and consciousness, that Eternal Being, whom men
call God.
Tiia Aurøoas.
CHAPTER I
THE INNER RADIANCE
u the light Shineth in the darkness; and the darkness compre-
hended it not.' St. John, i, 5.
"For God, who commanded the light to shine out of the darkness.
hath shined into our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of
the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ."!! CorinSManf, iv, 6.
flack of all evolution there is an inner power, a mani-
festation of life, an Inner Radiance which pushes the
unfoldment Of all forms of lifefrom atoms to planets
on to their destined perfected manifestation. The essence
of this Inner Radiance is the out-breathing of the Supreme
Being, the Divine Breath, which manifested as the sacred
Word which brought all things into expression, and which
in man becomes embodied in flesh as the Divine Indweller.
Science has proved that every form of life expresses some
aspect of radiant energy or Inner Radiance; in fact, each
form is fashioned by and exists for the express purpose of
permitting its particular aspect of that Inner Radiance to
manifest on Earth, much as the hard shell of the wholesome
nut exists for the purpose of enabling the soft, tender meat
to survive and manifest in conditions which without the
outer shell would crush and destroy it and prevent its ex-
pression here on Earth.
Every physical form is but an aggregation of material
and other substances held together by, and through which,
a particular aspect, current or vibration of the divine One
Life finds expression. And only by the steady pressure
from within outward of the gyrations of the Inner Radi-
ance, this mysterious life-force, can the inner and unseen
1
2 The Inner Radiance
pattern unfold, materialize in matter and evolve into the
full expression of perfection it is intended to manifest.
For, like the nut, the inner pattern' which was breathed
out by the Creator through the Divine Mind, must have a
protecting covering of physical substance crc it can fulfill
its destiny, which destiny was imprinted upon it crc it was
sent forth into manifestation. And it is through the evolu-
tion of these outer forms2 which are continually modified to
accommodate the progressive unfolding of the inner pattern,
that the Inner Radiance moulds all physical matter ultimately
to embody God's will for that form.
These outer forms are not created in an instantaneous
flash; for after God spake the Word and the inner pat-
terns or ideals were projected into manifestation, it required
untold ages for their Inner Radiance to overcome the
inertia of matter and mould that dense and resistant sub-
stance into the meshes of the delicate, ethereal inner patterns
so as to permit their progressive unfoldment and correct
materialization in the physical world.
It requires tremendous constructive power to unfold and
evolve these outer forms; to gather the materials and trans-
form and synthesize them into living tissue; to collect the
tons of earth which compose a giant tree, for example, and
to absorb and lift hundreds of feet into the air the countless
barrels of water which are daily required by such a tree.
All the outer forms which protect and more or less crudely
outpicture their inner patterns are therefore sustained and
evolved by the dynamic cohesive power of their Inner
Radiance, the downpouring and inflowing of the life-aspect
of the Godhead; that ever-renewing Inner Radiance of the
Divine which constantly pushes all forms on to perfection;
that Eternal Urge upward and onward from the primitive
to the perfected through the progressive new presentation
and new revealing of the inner pattern or Ideal of all things.
1 Pot detail, see TM Tr4k 4b1 EvoMijo,s sad Ike Bible. Curtu, Cbap.
teT UI.
2 Ibi1.
The Inner Radiance 3
This is equally true of suns and cosmic systems as it is of
the lowliest forms. All are but manifestations in matter
of the Divine One Life.
This law applies to man as well as to all other expressions
of the cosmic currents of the One Life. To accept the
statement that "God formed man of the dust of the ground,"
and to ignore the previous statement that "God created man
in His own image and likeness" is to accept the letter which
killeth all true understanding of the subjectthe mere shell
of the nutand ignore the Spirit or Inner Radiance which
maketh alive. For just as in the nut there is its kernel,
which is destined to unfold into the tree, and which is
wrapped in the hard outer shell, so in man there is an inner
kernelcalled the Christ Childwhose Inner Radiance,
although wrapped in the swaddling clothes of the outer shell
or personality and therefore little realized and understood,
is ultimately destined to accomplish its mission, namely, to
spiritualize the flesh and unfold the inner pattern of the
Divine Real Self. But only as we remove the restrictions
of the swaddling clothes, by allowing the Christ Child to
manifest through us, can we enable Him to grow up and
become the Carpenter who can utilize all the experiences
of life as tools and all the conditions of life as materials
with which to make our body a temple of the Living God,
leaving behind as chips the superficial things of the outer
life.
Once man realizes that his Real Self is truly a Ray of
God, made in His image, and allows that Image of Gods
to manifest, the whole world will be changed. Man is there-
fore far more than the physical formwhich was not created
but formed or evolved' out of the dust of the ground
through which his Inner Radiance manifests. Man is a
microcosm or an epitome of the universe. The same Eternal
$ See "lb. Image of God' In The Trash Ab.as EvdaHms .i.d lb. Bible,
Curtis., Chapters XIX. III.
4For detail, see TI.. Trt.sl. About RvohHon cod Ike Bible. Curtis., Chap-
ter IlL'
4 The Inner Radiance
Being from whose Divine Mind the inner pattern of all
lower forms were projected also projected the Inner Man,
created in His image and likeness and destined to be the
Lord of Creation and His highest manifestation on this
planet.
The Inner Man or first Adam of the first chapter of
Genesis was the Real Self or Spiritual Man, while the sec.
ond Adam of the second chapter of Genesis was but the
outer, physical form or animal body into which the Spiritual
Man was to incarnate. But only when the Earth and its
lower forms had evolved to the requisite point did this
human-animal form appear. And only when this human
form had evolved to a point where it contained the necessary
organs and centers could the Spiritual Man be breathed into
that human form. And it was only after the incarnation
of the Spiritual Man into the body of flesh that man "be-
came a living Soul" and the unfoldment (evolution) of man
as we know him began.
If this fundamental distinction between the outer form or
body of man and his Inner Radiance is understood, the
so-called conflit between religion and science disappears,
for both are true in their own realms; one is talking about
spiritual man and the other about his physical body. Only
as we allow the Inner Radiance of the Spiritual Man to
shine forth in our hearts and manifest in and through the
body of flesh can we express our Real Self, the Image of
God, which shall illumine, guide and ultimately redeem from
ignorance and sintransgression of the Lawthe man of
flesh.
Because of the effect of the Inner Radiance on the evolu-
tion of the outer form, one of the chief characteristics of
all living things (forms) is change. This is due to an
ever-progressive unfolding of the inner pattern, a new mani-
festation or ideal for each form. That which is incapable
5ee The Orgn of 3f in TA, Voice of hi, Curd.. 22*.
IFor dctzilg ice TA, Truth About Evolutioi. Dull the BiI,, Curtlu, Oiap.
ter UI.
The Inner Radiance S
of change has ceased to grow and will soon cease to live.
Then the lower forms of life of which that higher form was
made up, or connected with,atoms, cells, bacteria, etc.,-
wiU have a brief form of separate existence until the old
body of which they were a part is entirely disintegrated.
Then the Inner Radiance which formerly inhabited the now
disintegrated form is freed to manifest in the higher worlds,
and in its next incarnation must build up and inhabit a new
form which will be less limiting to its unfoldment and mani-
festation.
This Law of Change is a Law of Life and applies to
peoples, civilizations, customs, ideas and religions as well as
to physical forms. When the Inner Radiance, or the Spirit
which quickeneth, no longer finds free expression througha
previous form of manifestationno matter how vital and
radiant with life and power that form may once have been
that form, be it civilization, custom, idea or religion, becomes
but an empty shell; for its Inner Radiance has withdrawn
to seek a new avenue or form of manifestation.
Applying this Law of Change to religion, we will readily
understand that every form of religion must unfold and
change its mode of expression in accord with the advances
in man's conception of the universe and its laws, if that
religion's Inner Radiance is to continue to shine forth anew
and reveal its inner pattern more perfectly.
Like the rose whose petals, at first folded tightly over its
inner golden center, gradually unfold and open its heart to
the Sun and permit its perfumed breath to pour forth upon
the air, so must religion follow the same Law of Change
(growth). The "air" of mankind which religion must per-
fume is composed of the principles and ideals which it
inbreathes and which vitally affect the spiritual, moral and
social health of the nations. Air, when illumined and vital-
ized by the rays of the Sun, becomes to the physical universe
the very breath of God, whose Voice pronounced the Word
that was made flesh. Sunshine and air have been essential
6 The Inner Radiance
factors in the formation of all flesh since the beginning,
but air, too, must change or it becomes "dead air" and often
poisonous.
The inner mystical truths upon which the outer forms
creeds and ceremoniesof all religions are built remain un-
changed throughout the ages, for they are spiritual verities
eternal in the heavens. But the outer forms which veil and
only partially express them must evolve, and should grow
ever more transparent that the Inner Radiance of Divine
Truth may shine through more brightly to illumine the
minds of men and reveal all the Divine Truth that it is
possible for man's spiritual unfoldment in each age to grasp.
If, instead of evolving and more dearly revealing its
Inner Radiance, a religion becomes materialized through ad-
herence to the letter of its man-made dogmas and creeds,
then it ultimately disintegrates and disappears, after having
served its purpose for a cycle, as though blown away by
the winds of heaven. But if it is willing to modify its
former conceptions, its Inner Radiance will illumine the
heart and mind of someone, or of many, to break through
the crust of misconception and materialization which has
gathered around it, that new conceptions of its vital truths
may shine forth in forms suited to the New Age.
Thus do all religions have their reformers and regenera-
tors. And the old forms of expression drop away as the
petals of a rose which has spent its life-force fall to the
ground, although its Inner Radiance still persists, either as
a seed of a new rose or is indrawn into the bush that it may
manifest greater beauty and fragrance in another, or per-
haps several more blossoms on the same bush. Therefore,
the crying need of religion today is to put forth new blos-
soms from the same Eternal Roots of Divine Truth. For
no longer can the man-made interpretations of the medieval
ages satisfy either the intellect or the heart-hunger of en-
lightened minds of the present twentieth century, the be-
ginning of this new Aquarian Age. Hence, if our present-
The Inner Radiance 7
day religions are to remain a vital factor in the lives of
modern men and women, there must be a new and vital
interpretation of the world-old spiritual principles concern-
ing the manifestation of the Divine to man and within man,
such as The Order of Christ ian Mystics is endeavoring to
set forth.
In former ages the heat and light of the Sun were about
the only forces recognized by the mass of mankind as coming
from it, but today we know that the visible rays constitute
only a small part of the Sun's vital forces. Important as
the visible rays are to the life of man and the planet, it is
the downpouring of the invisible rays (ultra-violet, etc.)
of the Inner Radiance of the Sun which penetrates to the
center of the planet and there forms the four inner realms
of radio-active ethers which, together with the upward-
streaming rays from the various radio-active substances in
the Earth itself, are the most potent and which have the
most important effects upon health, vitality and growth,
whether of planets, animals or men.
Just so it is with the Spiritual Sun. For although the
spiritual Inner Radiance, which has manifested visibly in the
various world religions and teachers, has been of great im-
portance in the outer spiritual life of mankind, yet it is only
the inner, invisible and mystical rays of the Christ-light-
which has always manifested under various names, even
though unrecognized and unknown by the mass of mankind
which has been the most potent force in the inner spiritual
life of humanity.
And just as we have now reached an Age in which we
have begun to recognize the invisible rays of the Sun and
begun to understand something of how to use them for
health, healing, growth and vitality, so we have reached an
Age when we must recognize and learn to use through actual
practicethrough prayer, meditation, aspiration and radia-
tion in speech and conductthe invisible rays of the
Spiritual Sun, the Christ-light, for our spiritual health, heal-
8 The Inner Radiance
ing, growth and vitality. For it is this, at present little
known, mystical Inner Radiance of the Christ-light which
must be recognized and used to bring humanity a truer un-
derstanding and fuller appreciation of the laws of Its mani-
festation as set forth in the Gospel story. "That Light was
the true Light1 which lighteth every man that cometh into
the world." But the Light shone in the darkness of man's
incomprehension and he recognized it not, just as the in-
visible rays of the Sun and of radium have shone forth
in the physical world for countless ages until the expansion
of man's consciousness enabled him to recognize and use
although as yet only partiallytheir powers.
To obtain the healing, revitalizing and regenerating effect
of the Sun's invisible rays, we must deliberately expose
ourselves to the direct light of the Sun, for the healing rays
are cut off if the light passes through ordinary window
glass. Likewise, to obtain the regenerating, redeeming and
illuminating effects of our Inner Radiance from the mighty
I Am Presence within, we must have certain definite periods
daily when we deliberately expose ourselves to, or bathe in,
the inner mystical Christ-light or the Inner Radiance of an
individualized Ray of that Eternal Being which is sent to
Earth to draw all things unto Him that all may have life,
and life more abundantly. Hence the vital necessity for a
specific time each day for meditation, prayer and worship.
Every advance in science which results in the alleviation
of the hardships, discomforts, sorrows and suffering of hu-
manity comes, firstly, because enlightened minds have de-
liberately turned their attention to the unknown forces and
laws of Nature and meditated upon them until they have
conceived something of their possibilities and uses. Then
comes the recognition of those forces and their deliberate
application to the problems of humanity. In a similar way,
if we wish to quicicen our spiritual growth and unfoldment,
we too must deliberately turn our attention to the unknown
The Inner Radiance 9
forces and laws of the spiritual life and meditate upon them.'
In other words, just as we have solar and radium solariums
in our sanitariums, so we must establish a spiritual solarium,
as it were, in which we consciously bathe in the Inner Radi
ance of the Christ-light of the I Am Presence within.
To help us gain this realization and apply its power to
our personal lives, we should visualize our Real Self, not as
a finite mortal, but as a great and glorious i,nmorlaj spiritual
being, the mighty I Am Presence, overshadowing us and en-
deavoring to find ever greater and greater expression
through us, according to our recognition of and response to
His divine guidance. We should picture Him so radiant
with the spiritual emanations of His divinity that He is
bathed in a dazzling white light which pours down over us,
fills our aura and thus surrounds us with its snowy white-
ness, much as though we were encased in a giant bottle of
snowy white glass. Every time we visualize this ideal of our
Real Self and reach up in aspiration to and correlate with
its divine reality, we enlarge the channel through which that
Inner Radiance can descend into our human personality.
There its presence will help us to overcome our limitations,
redeem our mistakes, illumine our minds and flU our lives
with its radio-active emanations, so that we will uncon-
sciously be a blessing to all we contact, just as the perfume
of the rose unconsciously delights all who contact it.
As we make a practice of this we will gradually begin to
recognize and respond to many invisible rays of spiritual
light, life and truth which formerly were unknown and
unsuspected by us. Once we recognize them we will be able
to apply these forces as health, happiness, spiritual uplift
and unfoldment in our lives and radiate them to others, thus
helping to counteract, and ultimately entirely banish, the
seemingly inevitable ills of mankind. Thus will we manifest
our Pr.wr for L.iht. the Pr.j.r go the DuO, I.4dI.r, etc. See
Pr.j.,: of the 0. C. M.. Curtlu, 1-6.
B
10 The Inner Radiance
not only physical health and infellectual growth, but spiritual
health and intellectual illumination which will malce our lives
spiritually radio-active. And thus will the Inner Radiance
shine forth in blessing upon all mankind because we have
removed the swaddling clothes that obscured the Christ-light
within; because we are unfolding new petals on the Rose of
Life, and we have begun to bring the Inner Radiance into
visible manifestation in joy, health, power and happiness in
our outer lives.
CHAPTER II
THE GOD MAN
"We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that
is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth
him not. And we know that we are of God, and the whole world
lieth in wickedness."I John v, 18-19.
"CJO4 is in us of a truth."I Corinthians, xiv, 25.
"Thus every mortal has his immortal counterpart, or rather his
Archetype, in heaven. This means that the former is indissolubly
united to the latter, in each of his incarnations, and for the duration
of the cycle of births."The Key to Theosoj'hy, Blavatsky, 59.
The object of physical existence is still one of the greatest
mysteries for most of humanity, even in these days of great
scientific advance and enlightenment. But it is still a mystery
only because the attention of the most progressive minds of
the world has been focused on material things, problems
and aims in the world outside of the Self, instead of being
focused within to find out what the Self really is and its
object in manifesting in the physical world.
In these days of turmoil, of uncertainty and of wavering
faith, of growing antagonism and even atheism, the under-
standing of this mystery is of far more importance to our
Soul-growth and even to our worldly welfare than any
amount of information on psychic or occult topics, however
informative and intellectually interesting they may be.
The fundamental concept for us all to realize and firmly
establish in our minds is that we are essentially Sjiritual
Beings here and now, as much so as we will ever be; that
we have nothing to do with Earth conditions except when
we come down from our heavenly home to manifest for a
few short years in this world of matter. But when we are
11
12 The Inner Radiance
once incarnated in these bodies of flesh, we so lose the mem-
ory of our heavenly home and who we really are that we
often manifest so little of our Real or Divine Self or
I Am Presence that we seem to be but mortals instead of un-
mortals, and seem to be limited to the functions of the
bodily organism in which we find ourselves.
This feeling arises because of our lack of proper training
and teaching as to the difference between the human per-
sonality and the Real Self which is striving to find expres-
sion through it. Most persons have, therefore, never really
conceived of the fact that the Real Self of us is an individ-
ualized Ray of the Divine, and therefore necessarily is made
in the image and after the likeness of God or the seven-
fold Elohim; an actual enanation from or partide of the
Godhead that has been consciously projected from Himself
for the purpose of manifesting Himself in individuality
in the worlds of matter and form. Since we are His direct
emanations we naturally contain all the potencies and powers
of the Godhead, such as the God-consciousness to grasp and
understand the truth which shall make us free from the
bonds of ignorance and illusion, the Divine Will to manifest
that Truth, the Divine Love to cherish and bring it forth,
and the Divine Life to vitalize and establish it as a living
power in our lives.
We must therefore never for a moment entertain the old
medieval conception that we are worms of the dust, poor
miserable sinners, weak human creatures, mere human ani-
mals. For we are far more than animals, more even than
human beings. Instead of piteously praying for God to
come down and save us from the results of our own igno-
rance, mistakes and selfishness, we must realize that God
is right here all the time now, within us as the God Man,
made in His image and after His likeness. Hence God does
not need to come down. He merely needs to be recogthed
within and be allowed to manifest without. As our text
says: We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth
The God Man 13
not; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and
the wicked one toucheth him not."
We are indeed Sons and Daughters of God, children of
the Most High, who are seeking to manifest our Divine
Selfhood here on Earth through bodies of flesh. "And if
children, then' heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs with
Christ."1 Even if the God Man within is as yet only in
the babe stage of His unfoldment and manifestation, He
nevertheless is filled with the love, the power and the glory
of the Divine. And the more we meditate upon Him and
strive to express His divine qualities, the more He grows in
His power to manifest them through us and guide our per-
sonality. There is therefore nothing that cannot be accom-
plished in His name if we realize in all its intensity, in the
depths of our hearts, that we, the Real Self, are Divine here
and now; that we are Gods in the process of manifestation
in matter. Hence the ancient axiom: "Men are mortal gods
and gods are immortal men."
However, some may ask: Where does the animal part
of us come in? Here we must realize clearly that the ani-
mal part is not us, is not the Real Self, the God Man. We
possess an animal body not because we are the highest type
of animal, but because it is a highly evolved physical instru-
ment which is absolutely necessary for the God Man to
manifest through in this world of form and matter.' It is
given to us so that when we reach the stage of unfolding
consciousness wherein we recognize our Divinity, when we
realize that we are more than mere animals, more than mere
mortals; that we are truly Sons and Daughters of God;
when we realize our power to reach up in consciousness to
the throne of our Father, to become one with Him, to feel
His love and His power and His blessing filling us, then we
will have a perfected and trained instrument through which
to manifest our Sonship and Daughtership here on Earth,
1 Rein.,.,, vifi, 17.
2or detail. see The Tvatk Abo.t Rvoisttois and lh. Thð., Curtis..
14 The Inner Radiance
even as it is done in heaven. Thus shall our life on Earth
become a mirror of our celestial life.
But how are we to perfect our human instrument so that
the God Man can manifest through it? First, we must rec-
ognize that the animal nature, with all its passions, appe-
tites and desires, has been fashioned and given to us by the
Father for our use.2 It is therefore not to be despised or
ill-treated. For there is nothing that He has made, from
the lowest one-celled microscopic organism up to man, or
from the sands of the seashore up to galaxies of blazing
suns, that has not a manifestation of His divinity within it,
whether seen or unseen, whether understood or not under-
stood by us. Hence, we should think of everything we con-
tact on Earth as being a partial manifestation of God. By
so doing we can gain a greater understanding of God and a
greater power to help us manifest the God Man within.
For there is nothing manifested that is not made by God,
except the inharmonious, impure and abominable things
which are created by nan through the perveriion of his crea-
tive powers of mind and body because of his ignorance, his
disobedience to the inner guidance, and his selfishness and
perverse wickedness. Every thought we think and every
word we utter creates after its kind in some realm' It either
adds to the inharmony and misery of the world or it helps
humanity onward and upward, and it also sinks down into
the lower kingdoms and blesses and lifts them up. Hence
there must be no refusal to face anything, no denial of ob-
vious facts or of the existence to us of the things that our
senses report, but a willingness to see and recognize each
manifestation for what it is and either use it, learn a lesson
from it or pass it by as the God Man within may direct.
Realizing our real, Divine Nature and our power to tran-
scend and control our animal self, we must strive in every
way to train and perfect and uplift it by radiating and cx-
SFo detail, ice R,.Iiui, of Siw Liviag DceÅ Cueths.
The God Man 15
pressing in our daily lives the powers and forces that come
from the God Man within: our highest aspirations, our in-
tuitions, our highest thoughts and ideals, so that their radio-
active power will refine and make the animal nature and the
whole human personality more and more responsive to the
God Man within. Thus will the lower nature and all its
faculties be purified, uplifted and glorified to their highest
uses in the service of the God Man for His manifestation on
EL
But the manifestation must be from the Diyine within,
radiating and expressing outwardly. No amount of assumed
or outward show of religion or pretense or claim of spir-
itual advance, no hypocrisy or self-delusion, can long cover
up or conceal the real character or stage of unfoldment of
the God Man within. Each person unconsciously but in-
evitably reveals his stage of unfoldment in his outer conduct.
Daily, hourly, in every act of life and in all our contacts
with others we evidence and prove the degree of our reali-
zation and manifestation of the God Man within.
It is comparatively easy to demonstrate our God-con-
sciousness and our God-powers in the higher, finer realms
whose substance is so immediately responsive to our every
thought. But we can only complete the full cycle of expres-
sion of the God Man by demonstrating His characteristics
and powers in the dense and relatively unresponsive condi-
tions of Earth-life, and thereby gain the rudiments of self-
knowledge through the physical senses. It is therefore both
our duty and our privilege to learn to utilize our divine pow-
ers of will, wisdom and love here in the physical world. And
since we are Sons and Daughters of God we must learn to
live like Gods; must practice thinking and speaking and act-
ing as near as we can imagine Gods would do here and now.
We must strive to manifest that absolute poise which re-
suits from an inner quietude. Manifest serenity under all
conditions because of our realization of our high destiny:
manifest self-control because the Real Self controls: pa-
16 The Inner Radiance
tience and no need for hurry because we realize the time-
lessness of Eternity in which we live; purity because of
mastery of the flesh: radiant health without because of Life
Divine within: cheerfulness and happiness because of our
inner joy: kindliness of speech and act because of our great
love: a melodious voice because it has lost its power to
wound:4 a quizzical humour because of our understand-
ing of man's foolishness: tolerance because of man's igno-
rance: courage because of a realization of our immortality:
a soft answer that turneth away wrath because we do not
respond to inharmony and realize man's spiritual childish-
ness: words and deeds of helpfulness and comfort because
of our great compassion and our desire to help others: un-
selfishness and charity because of our inner store of riches.
The necessity for demonstrating the degree of our un-
foldment in our daily conduct was clearly recognized by
that illumined leader and founder of Quakerism, George
Fox. He and his followers believed that the visible "signs"
of the inward grace must be manifested outwardly. In
every act of life they kept in mind the necessity of evi-
dencing the real, positive proof of their realization of the
God Man within, which they gained by meditation upon Him
in regular periods of silence and communion with Him. It
was not alone the manifestation of His power from within
which carried them through persecution and martyrdom,
that so puzzled and baffled their persecutors. It was their
unfailing kindness, their gentleness in word and act, their
courtesy, their tender care of the weak and ailing, their un-
compromising stand against all inharmony and sin, even the
mildest forms of wrongdoing, which demonstrated the power
of the God Man within to guide them in the practical af-
fairs of daily life. Theirs was the strength of gentle non-
resistance, yet none could be so staunch and unyielding when
faced with a question of principle or faith. No personal sac-
4 "Before the voice can speak In the presence of the Masters, it must have
lost its power to wound." LigbJ ou She PCSk. Collins.
The God Man 17
rifice was too great, no suffering was too much, no impris-
onment or persecution half so terrible in their eyes as to lack
courage and fail to live u to the Divine Guidance of the
God Man within as revealed to them through prayer and
meditation. And we can do no better today than to emulate
that attitude of mind and that daily practice of the presence
of God in our lives.
To the extent that we recognize and correlate with the
God Man within, the more we feel the warmth of His burn-
ing love, the more we feel His sympathy for all mankind,
the more we realize His Christ-consciousness, the more do
we respond to and radiate His qualities and forces to the
upliftment and blessing of all we contact. For the more
we are blessed by a realization of His God-powers within,
the more we are able to bless, help, comfort and enlighten
others. As we respond to the harmony and joy of His pres-
ence within, so will we be gloriously happy, kind, poised and
serene under all conditions. We will thus be a shining ex-
ample of what humanity, as manifestations of the God Man,
should be: not by seeking to dominate others or to compel
them to be or do what we think is right, but by inspiring
them to manifest their own God Man within.
We must remember that this physical world is the realm
in which we must learn to demonstrate our divine character-
istics, just as a violin factory, wherein the material instru-
ment is manufactured, is necessary before the musician can
demonstrate the Soul-rapture of his musical genius. Our
short visit to this Earth-plane should therefore be regarded
as a great privilege, another opportunity to manifest as much
of the God Man within as we have been able to unfold dur-
ing all our previous incarnations.
But the God Man within cannot force us to follow His
guidance nor can He manifest within us against our will.
He therefore must have, first, our recognition of His pres-
ence within, and then our glad and willing obedience and
help, so that He may find expression in and through our
18 The Inner Radiance
daily lives. For even God and His Archangels cannot mani-
fest in the human kingdom except through us as Their in-
struments of expression. They are our Archetypes and we
Their counterparts, Their mystic shrines, temples of the
Living God. If we make mistakes, if we give way to
temptation or to impure or destructive thoughts or words,
nevertheless the God Man is still within us, but crucified by
and suffering from all the inharmonies of our creation. He
does not condemn or scold us, but speaks to us in the Still
Small Voice.
As we recognize our mistakes and strive to correct and
redeem them, He holds out His hands in love and says:
"Come unto Me and I will give you rest and peace.
I will give you My power to overcome. Only ask for
it. Only take it and use it to master the personality and
make it your servant. For the uplifting of humanity and
all the lower lcingdoins is a mighty task and I need your
help. Come and help Me to uplift and bless all manifested
things. Thus will you become My Chosen Ones. Thus will
you learn to manifest Me, your Real Self, the God Man
within." Then will we be able to demonstrate that; "The
gods are come down to us in the likeness of men," as the
people of Lycaonia said of Paul and Barnabas.
I Sce Icusc H., Chou. Oae: Curtiu.
Ac*, ziv 11.
CHAPTER III
AS IN THE DAYS OF NOAH
"AsitwasinthedaysofNoah,soshallitbealsointhedaysof
the Son of man .. . until the day that Noah entered into the ark,
and the flood came, and destroyed them alL... Likewise also was it
in the days of Lot; . . . the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it
rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all. Even
thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed?'SS.
Luke, xvii, 26-30.
Everything in the universe finds expression in rhythmic
waves of cyclic expression: periods of outgoing into mani-
festation and indrawal into obscuration and rest. History
therefore ever tends to repeat itself in greater or lesser
cycles. Nations, peoples and races tend to pass through
similar conditions, especially toward the dose of their greater
and lesser cycles. And just as at the dose of the cycle of
the year all Nature passes through the disagreeable condi-
tions of rain, mud, frost and snow, as a result of the storms
of the closing cycles of the year, so do nations and human-
ity as a whole have to pass through similar conditions of
stress and strain at the dose of their respective seasons or
cycles. This is due both to planetary and to national causes.
Through their cyclic revolutions the planets periodically tend
to return to their former relations to each other and there-
fore tend to subject this Earth and its humanity to condi-
tions similar to those which obtained in previous ages when
the planets formed the same combinations and relationships
with each other and with the Earth.
Astrologers tell us that as the Sun (in 1931) was in ad-
verse aspect to Saturn, Uranus and Jupiter, and especially
19
20 The Inner Radiance
as Saturn was afflicting Uranus, it tended to retard all prog-
ress. Such combinations have a very adverse influence both
upon finance and labor as well as upon agriculture. Hence
we are now experiencing planetary influences which tend to
bring about "hard times," unemployment, financial depres-
sion and panics, as well as unusual storms, droughts, floods,
crop failures and famines. These generally adverse influ-
ences did not cease until Saturn passed out of the thrifty but
earthbound sign of Capricorn into the airy but erratic sign
Aquarius on November 20th, 1932, although they were modi-
fied for the better by the benign rays of Jupiter, the planet
of finance, when it passed out of Leo into Virgo on August
11, 1932. But since astrology teaches that we should "rule
our stars," instead of passively and helplessly giving way to
their influences as if they were fate, the results are greatly
intensified by man's personal reaction to the planetary influ-
ences, that is, whether he gives way to them or utilizes them
for his learning and his ongoing.
The most important factor, therefore, in such unusually
upset conditions of humanity as we find at present is the in-
dividual and collective Karma which man himself has created
in the past and has not entirely redeemed. This unredeemed
Karma naturally accumulates toward the end of the greater
and lesser cycles, at which time it must be faced and re-
deemed or it will overwhelm all those whose personal ad-
vance has not enabled them to learn their lessons and thus
escape participating in any but the general or racial Karma.
As the combinations of planetary aspects and influences are
now similar to those which existed at the close of the former
great cycles in the days of Noah and of Lot, humanity is
facing a similar crisis.
Again today we see "that the wickedness of man was great
in the Earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of
his heart was only evil continually.... The Earth also
was corrupt before God, and the Earth was filled with vio-
lence.. . for all flesh has corrupted his way upon the
As in the Days of Noah 21
Earth."1 And since the great mass of mankind today will
not listen to the prophets of this age any more than they
did to Noah and to the angels who came to Lot, similar
cataclysms must take place to deanse the Earth and pre-
pare for the new and spiritually advanced conditions of the
incoming Aquarian age of Altruism. "Even thus shall it be
in the day when the Son of man is revealed." For only so
can humanity be cleansed, awakened and prepared for the
greatest event in the two-thousand-year cycle of the Aqua-
rium Age, namely, the descent and manifestation of the
Christ as the coming Avatar.1
Noah symbolizes those illumined ones or prophets of the
Lord who are able to hear His voice and give out His loving
counsel and helpful warnings to mankind. Those "of the
household of Noah" are all those who are willing to listen
and heed the words of the many modern prophets of the
Lord in all races and languages and religions who are warn-
ing their respective peoples to prepare for great changes in
the Earth and all outer conditions, as well as for the near
advent of the Son of Man, whether as the reappearance of
the Asiatic Rigden Jyepo in Shainbhala or of the phenom-
enal manifestation of the Christ in America. Therefore it
is most important to broadcast the Cosmic Philosophy which
explains the conditions which humanity is facing, and also
the how, why and when of His coming, so that this knowl-
edge shall be the leven that shall leven all humanity and give
all who will, the understanding and the help which will en-
able them to pass through the coming conditions in safety
and help them to prepare for His coming.
It should be understood that it matters not what the Soul
has done in the past or is doing today: it is still divine and
is beloved of the Christ. The Great Law, therefore, metes
out to every Soul not the Karma of punishment, not of ar-
l(igm vii. 5. 11, 12.
2 Such cc recently raised the enalt of New Zealand 70 feet. See our 1931
4iiiisssi News LoUsy for further examplei, also Coouag World Che.sgu Curt...
Z See "The Doctrine of Avatara, Voice of isis. Cariss. Chapter .
22 The Inner Radiance
bitrary tests merely to wring their hearts and overwhelm
them with suffering, but our Karma is apportioned by the
Lords of Kanna4 to each of us so that it will act as the law
of adjustment which brings to each one at just the right
time that which shall ultimately awaken him to a realization
of the Christ within and to his divine heritage. Or, if nec-
essary, it may remove us from incarnation to prevent us
from generating further adverse Karma until we have
learned our lessons and have attained greater growth and
unfoldment.
The planets come back into their same relative positions at
the appointed time, not to punish mankind, but again to touch
the hearts of men with their vibrations of purification and
redemption and to pour out the forces needed by man to
cleanse himself and his environment and creations. Only
that which is not deansed and cannot respond to the octave
of vibration of the new cycle needs to be swept away and
allow this little planet to pass safely through its "days of
tribulation" and again prepare for the coming of the Son
of Man; for planets, like nations and individuals, must be
tested and proved or disintegrate and be withdrawn from
manifestation.
While all planets are His temples, yet at this particular
cycle this Earth has been chosen as His sanctuary in the
midst of them all, because it is here that He has chosen
to manifest again to teach us to recognize Him and the help
He can give us to awaken us to a fuller realization that we
are His children and therefore Divine, and to bring to us
the memory of our heavenly home and the great mission for
which we are incarnated here in the flesh. Only a God of
Divine Love would create man in His image and watch over
his evolution and unfoldment through the long ages of gno-
rance and lack of realization and mistakes until he awakened
to the realization of the I Am Presence of the Christ within
4 See Cbapter XV ber.n.
Is in the Days of Noah 23
and learned to listen to His guidance and serve Him on
Earth even as it is done in heaven.
Our Karma comes, therefore, not merely as a mechanical
reaping of that which we have sown in the past, but because
those past experiences have left certain tendencies, vibra-
tions or grooves in our lives, in our characters, in our
dispositions, which we must either fill up or perfect into
constructive channels of expression and realization. To
bring this about, some need one thing, some another. Some
need "hard times," poverty, sickness, surprising experiences,
perhaps disappointment and disillusion because of the dark
shadows of their past lives. But that which comes is just
that which is needed to wake us up and bring to us a reali-
zation. of our Real Selves and our mission n Earth.
Think you that the Lord of Love sends these things as
mere punishment? As mere tests? Not so. All these
things come in the greatest love. For like humanity in gen-
eral, and also the planet, even His awakened ones must be
cleansed and readjusted and strengthened and fitted to do
their part in preparing for His coming. Although we can
always contact the Christ within when we turn to Him in
prayer and aspiration, crc we are worthy to greet the Coin-
ing One face to face, we must prove that we have worked
out or transmuted the old Karma which so often clings to us
like a vampire, sapping our spiritual and psychic life and
making us far from that which we should be manifest-
ing.
We cannot trust and rely upon Him utterly, however, until
we have conquered our fears. We cannot truly believe
until we have faced and conquered our doubts. We cannot
have perfect health until we have been cleansed from all im-
purities and live in harmony with Nature's laws. But since
we know that all that comes to us is but part of our training
for His service, we can pass through it willingly and under-
standingly. And with His help we can triumph over all our
experiences, and so, from our own experience and realiza-
24 The Inner Radiance
tion, be able to help, enlighten and comfort those who are
in distress and spiritual darkness around us.
The book of Revelation in the Bible is an allegorical pres-
entation of the conditions which the world must pass through
at the dose of the cycle of the Fifth Great Race. And as we
are now passing through the closing days of the fifth sub-
race we must naturally expect to pass through similar con-
ditions, but in a lesser degree. Many persons fear to read
Revelation, both because they cannot understand its sym-
bology and because of the many dire disasters and terrible
sufferings which it outpictures as the result of the cleansing
process. They therefore often fail to read the last chapter,
in which there is depicted the conditions which will prevail
duHng the Sixth and Seventh Great Races after the cleansing
has been completed. -
To a less perfect degree similar conditions should pre-
vail as we enter the sixth sub-race after the cleansing of the
fifth sub-race which precedes His coming. For after His
coming, if the humanity that survives the cleansing will live
according to the Divine Law of love, harmony, purity,
brotherhood and co-operation under His guidance, then in-
deed "there shall be no more curse." The results of the
former curse of inharmony and impurity will have been ad-
justed and wiped out and humanity, having learned its
lessons, will no longer generate the antagonism and inhar-
monies with which mankind cursed the Earth and himself
during the previous cycle. Also then "there shall be no more
night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the
Sun; for the Lord God giveth them light."
In other words, when we realize the light of the Christ
within we will no longer struggle blindly in the darkness of
spiritual ignorance, nor will we turn to the "candle" of our
human intellect, nor to the authorities of the outer world
which correspond to the physical Sun, for guidance; for
the light of the Christ within will thenceforth light our path
through life and illumine all our problems and give us the
As in the Days of Noah 25
peace and happiness which should be his here and now.
But to help humanity to pass through the troublous times
of the necessary cleansing which must come, and be able
to enter into the new conditions of peace, love, harmony and
co-operation, all those who are "of the household of Noah"
must set to work seriously, now while there is yet time, to
build an Ark of the Lord wherein all who will may enter
and be saved. Not only are all the spiritually awakened
ones needed in this great work, but also all the enlightened
minds of the race; those who are leaders in science, litera-
ture, religion and art, as well as in the fields of economics,
industry, politics, etc. All should be brought to realize the
significance of present-day conditions and use all their tal-
ents tb further the constructive working out of the rev-
olutionary planetary changes and the .results which these
changes will have upon mankind. All should be made to
understand that it is a great cosmic event that is being pre-
pared for and not merely the adjustment of man's Karma;
for this is the cycle "when the Son of man shall be revealed."
Spiritually, this Ark of safety for humanity is the spir-
itual aura of the Coming One, which is so vast as to include
all mankind to the extent that they "tune in" to the vibratory
rate of His life, love and power. Yet into His aura there is
drawn the essence of all the aspirations, the loving thoughts,
Icind words and helpful deeds of all those who are seeking,
even if ever so blindly and ignorantly, to do His will or
more understandingly to prepare for His coming; in fact,
the constructive forces df all who are united in the one idea
of preparing both themselves and humanity for His advent.
Since all our spiritual vibrations are thus united in Him,
to that extent we become a part of Him and He of us. Then
literally "in Him we live and move and have our being."
Through such an aura of the united-spiritual forces of God
and man the Master can more directly reach into the hearts
of mankind and help to awaken their consciousness of the
Christ withid and thus help to save great masses of hmn2n-
26 The Inner Radiance
ity from the suffering they would otherwise undergo during
these "days of tribulation." Those who thus respond to His
presence constitute the Elect, because they have elected to
follow His guidance. And it is for the Elect's sake or be-
cause of their activities among their fellow men that we are
promised that the days of tribulation shall be shortened, else
there should be no flesh left alive.
In the physical world The Order of Christian Mystics can
be made into a corresponding Arkone among many such
that are neededin which all who will listen to its message
will find not only a warm welcome, fellowship and encour-
agement, but also that comfort, peace and sense of security
which comes from an understanding of the Law and the
Divine Plan which is working out through the present
stormy trials in their lives and the turbulent conditions in
the world.
The planks of this Ark of the Order are the universal
spiritual principles which its Teachings present, all indis-
solubly bound together with the indestructible bonds of love.
Hence they embrace all kingdoms and creatures, as well as
mankind. And those who will enter into this Ark and rely
upon its planks and follow the guidance of its Captain will
surely pass through the deep waters of these changing con-
ditions in safety and learn the lessons of such events. Even
though they may be storm-tossed and wave-bound at times,
they will surely land upon the mountain top of the higher
consciousness when the storm is over. Then will the dove
of peace bring them the olive branch of true understanding
and realization.
With this understanding we need not be dismayed if in
the next few years we see even more extraordinary changes
and revolutions, both in the Earth itself and in all conditions
of life, than in the past few years; if we witness revolutions,
new wars and what appears to be the world gone mad,
turned upside down. For we will know that all this is only
the process of cleansing and purifying; the painful breaking
As in the Days of Noah 27
out of the diseases which have been bidden in the body of
humanity during the past cycle that they may now be recog-
nized and cured.
Since we have the planks of this Ark of Safety already
sawed, planed and fashioned and ready for our use in the
dear, scientific and inspiring explanations of life and the
ultimate destiny of mankind and the planet, as set forth in
the Teachings of this Order, it is our duty to help to spread
this understanding of life to all who will listen.
Our responsibility is therefore great, almost beyond our
present comprehension. Realization of this duty and respon-
sibility and a faithful and self-sacrificing acceptance of it
"in His service" will be the measure of our love for Him.
Therefore, let us all make haste to spread abroad the call
of the prophets. Let us use the planks of spiritual truths
to build an Ark of Safety for ourselves, for our neighbors
and for all mankind. Then shall the flash of lightning that
shines from the East unto the West at the time of His com-
ing be the flash of spiritual intuition that shall reveal to us
the truth of His coming and how we may serve Him in help-
ing to succor and save all who will listen.
CHAPTER IV
SPIRITUAL CO-OPERATION
"In that place I beheld a fountain of righteousness which never
failed, encircled by many springs of wisdom. Of these all the thirsty
drank, and were filled with wisdom, having their habitation with the
righteous, the dect and the holy."TIze Book of Enoch, xlviii, I.
"But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall
never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well
of water springing up into everlasting life."SI. John, iv, 14.
At this period of manifestation, or the New Aquarian Age
into which humanity is now entering, the most important
question confronting all classes and all nations, in one way
or another, is that of co-operation. In a vague way this is
spoken of as the one thing most essential to bring peace out
of discord and to harmonize the many divergent views of
life and the seemingly conflicting interests of classes and
nations. Yet without unselfishness and spiritual enlighten-
ment each tends to hold tenaciously to his own idea of what
co-operation means. Each is assured in his own mind that if
all the rest of mankind would co-operate with his pet theory
all would be well, hence the difficulty of securing practical
co-operation even among those who are striving for it.
The majority of advanced thinkers admit that only true
co-operation in its highest and best sense can at this time
bring about a solution of the world's problems, and such
international events as the acceptance of the Dawes' plan,
the Locarno Treaty, the London Conference on the reduc-
tion of naval armaments, the Kellogg-Briand Treaty, etc.,
indicate a decided advance toward the practical working
out of this ideal. Yet the great mass of mankind must also
28
Spiritual Co-operation 29
understand what true co-operation means; hence the need to
spread a knowledge of its principles.
Because co-operation is a fundamental principle under-
lying the whole manifested universe, when its principles are
widely understood and practiced, it will manifest peace, bar-
nlony, prosperity and plenty in its predestined and God-
ordained manner among men, just as it does among the
planets of the solar system, among the organs of the body
and among the parts of the growng tree or plant. Let us
realize then that the present individualistic and disorganized
expression of thought and interaction among men and na-
tions is abnormal, and is but a passing phase of adjustment
preparatory to ushering in the New Era, just as storms and
disagreeable conditions mark the transition from winter to
spring.
This New Era will mark the next step in the increased
unfoldment of the minds and hearts of all mankind; for by
passing through the stress and strain of coming world con-
ditions and learning their lessons, we may the more quickly
develop the innate possibilities which, in the majority of
mankind, are now like seeds deeply buried in the soil of the
earthly or physical consciousness. Although with the great
majority this development may require considerable time,
just as a deeply buried seed must be left alone for a long
time crc it can unfold according to the inner pattern of that
which it is destined to become, yet this New Era will see an
ever-increasing overshadowing of all devoted hearts and
enlightened minds by the Divine Wisdom received through
the spiritual facultiest
Divine Wisdom is always a God-given gift, not an in-
tellectual attainment; for while knowledge is man's intel-
lectual understanding of a fact or a truth, wisdom is the
inner knowing and realization of that which the intellect
conceives. Hence, it is often possessed by those who have
little intellectual development. On the other hand, the in-
tellect may be highly developedthrough training, study,
30 The Inner Radiance
etc.yet if the unfoldment of the spiritual consciousness
be lacldng, the intellect alone can never receive or grasp
Divine Wisdom. For "The natural man receiveth not the
things of the spirit of God; for they are foolishness unto
him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually
discerned." 1
During this new springtime of humanity we are told that
the time is very near when that which may be likened to an
examination as to the fitness of each and all to go into the
New Era will be upon us. All who can pass such a testing
will be given new and greater powers and have greater re-
sporisibilities for promoting the advancement of humanity
and the globe, while all who fail will have to step aside or,
to continue the simile, will be dismissed from this day at
school for a time until they have had an opportunity for
further study elsewhere (in the higher realms) that they
may come back at some fúture cycle when they will be bet-
ter prepared to pass the examination. But with these latter
we have little to do in this lesson; for we desire to give all
the explanation and help possible to those earnest ones who
are determined to pass their examinations and tests, and
advance and help the world here and now in its time of
greatest need.
As this new spiritual consciousness springs into manifes-
tation the great Gardener of Souls must carefully train,
prune and divest this spiritual growth of the many opposing
parasitic forces which, like plant pests and diseases, may
attack it or which may have been acquired during its ges-
tation. Some of these adverse forces and conditions have
been brought over by the individuals from past lives, per-
haps even while the spiritual seed was preparing for its en-
foidment, while some may have been acquired from the
Earth conditions in which the seed is germinating, just as
the seed of a plant may be contaminated by disease in the
I Coriistt.i..s II, 14.
Spiritual Co-operation 31
soil or in the very manure which has been supplied to help
on its growth.
But while the above conditions are karmic, both racial
and personal, there is still another Icarmic condition not
usually known or understood which accounts for a great
deal of the evil in the world and for much of the definite
opposition to all things good. This is the force of evil
created by the so-called "fallen" angels' who became the
terrible sorcerers and black magicians whose monstrous in-
iquities caused the sinking of the continent of Atlantis.
Many of these evil beings are still living in and teaching and
exercising their powers from the astral world, and it is the
sum-total of their evil machinations which is called the force
of the Antichrist which is now having such a widespread
manifestation in its effort to blot out all forms of worship
and religion in Russia. It is this concentrated force of evil,
which draws to itself all mankind who can be influenced by
it, and forms the invisible army which consciously opposes
every effort for the good, the enlightenment and the uplift
of mankind put forth by the army of the Christ. And it is
this army of evil forces which is today fighting the terrible
Battle of Armageddon in the astral world and which is
beginning to be precipitated upon the physical plane.
As we have explained elsewhere,' the giants which were
created by the unlawful and unholy relations of the fallen
angels with the daughters of menalso referred to in
Genesis wiwere giants not alone in stature, but also in in-
tellect and in their control over the forces of Nature. Pos-
sessing superhuman powers, they were able to bring into
manifestation on Earth many forces of tremendous power,
which were withheld from the knowledge of that infant
humanity, and use them to dominate, enslave or destroy
mankind. And it is some of these same forces which are
being rediscovered todaysuch as poison gas, the so-called
2Secicuon TMMirùly44.gd,. Put I, Curthi.
32 The Inner Radiance
"death ray," etc.and their physical aspect only too often
being used to destroy instead of uplift mankind.
It is still the influence of these diabolical Atlantean
sorcerers which directs the forces of evil which are forever
fighting against the forces of good, and which has been re-
sponsibleworking through those who have opened them-
selves to their influencefor much of the degradation of the
human race ever since. Not only have these evil forces
opposed every effort and every movement for the enlighten-
ment and advancement of humanity, but their sorcery and
black magic have created a great vortex of evil which draws
into it many an unwary Soul, and whose influence spreads
out over mankind as an astral cloud of temptation and evil
suggestion, influencing to evil rather than good all who
open the door of their minds to selfish or evil thoughts.
Hence, only as we determine to shut out evil and inliarmoni-
ous thoughts and fill our minds with thoughts of the Inner
Radiance of the Christ-light will our minds be impervious
to the astral influence of this cloud, for then there will be
no room or opening for its entrance. But thank God that
we are now fighting in the last days of this terrible warfare,
for "Iniquity passes away like a shadow, and possesses not
a fixed station"; hence the good must ultimately prevail.
All followers of the Christ should consciously enroll under
His banner, not only that they may pass safely through the
awful cataclysms and possible carnage which are so soon to
manifest, but that they may help to neutralize and counter-
act the evil and prevent the suffering such disasters will
bring. These changes in Earth conditions are destined to
come, for they are a part of the regeneration and evolution
of the planet, but they can come gradually and gently if the
prayers of mankind are sent out with such power as to
counteract the destructive vibrations of the evil generated in
the past
The first definite work that each can do, and it is by no
nn, an insignificant one or over-easy to perform, is at
Spiritual Co-operation 33
each period of meditation and devotion and every time the
thought occurs during the day, invoke the aid of the higher
spiritual powers and thus give them an avenue of manifes-
tation on Earth through true and unselfish prayer' for the
salvation of humanity and the speedy success of the pre-
destined victory of good over evil. This can be done with-
out regard to race, religion or creed, and will constitute true
spiritual cooperation; for prayer has a mighty and magical
radio-active spiritual power which holds at bay and dissi-
pates the forces of evil. To the enemy it forms a barrier
of living Light, something like a screen of fire-mist, through
which they cannot penetrate, while to all who are striving
to follow the Christ, it is like a benediction of blessing, com-
fort and protection.
Let us remember then that as members of God's en-
lightened host we each have a pressing duty and an inescap-
able responsibility to perfonn and a definite part to play in
the salvation of mankind and the mitigation of the coming
disasters' For the evil created by the fallen angels and their
followers all down the ages has about run its cycle and must
now be conquered once for all, that the surviving humanity
may enter the New Era unhandicapped by the terrible bur-
den of its past evil Karma. Let us therefore co-operate
with the Divine in its effort to manifest through us in peace,
love and harmony. For only by the increased development
and broadcasting of peace, love and harmony can the accu-
mulated evil of the past and the opposition to all good in the
present be overcome without cataclysms of disaster and suf-
fering, and allow mankind to co-operate unselfishly for the
best good of all.
Another most important phase of spiritual co-operation
is a united, wise and determined effort to prepare ourselves
and the minds of our fellowmen for the advent of the Lord
$ Such u the Prayer for World Harmony in Coms.ig World CM.Qas,
CurtIs., 114, and Pr..,: of tAg o. P. M. Cuita.., 14.
4Por detail, see Cosu.iag World CMisgu Curtis..
34 The Inner Radiance
of Life who is so soon to manifest on Earth to give man-
kind the teachings for the New Age. We should let no one
discourage us by statements that, because He may not ap-
pear publicly before 1975, He will not make Himself known
to His faithful followers long crc that time. In fact, He is
even now being seen and felt and heard by those who can
correlate with Him or "meet Him in the air," and is giving
all sincere and aspiring hearts His personal help, comfort
and loving counsel.
Since we are definitely promised that "This same Jesus,
which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like
manner," we have every reason to believe that just as He
appeared thirteen times to His disciples of old after the
resurrection,' so will He appear to His true disciples of
today "in like manner." Therefore, as we go about our
daily tasks many may expect to hear the comforting "All
hail," such as was given to Mary as she sought Him at
dawn. And if we worship Him in our hearts and hold to
His "feet"hold fast to Him in understandingas did she,
we will surely receive His assuring, "Be not afraid." Even
when the doors are shut where His faithful ones are as-
sembled in the upper chamber in His name, He will stand
in their midst and each heart shall hear Him say "Peace be
unto you." And many whom the Great Law will not per-
mit to "tarry until He cometh" will be vouchsafed a vision
of Him long before He manifests on Earth in the flesh.
But there is much preparation necessary crc the world is
ready to receive Him. And in a far more definite sense than
many can now understand, those who are ready to receive
Him will be gathered together with one accord in certain
places to meet their Lord. And they shall hear Him speak,
each in His own tongue in which he was born. To those
whose hearts are filled with love and understanding this will
be no miracle, for long crc the many cataclysmic changes in
SAcs:. 1. 11.
See TA. K, ol D.thsy, Curtiu, 140.
Spiritual Co-operation 35
both humanity and the planet have been finished they will
have learned to know and understand. And through true
spiritual co-operation they will have prepared a place for
Him on the regenerated Earth where all can worship with
one heart and one mind.
Let no one who reads this lesson ask, as did the disciples,
"Lord, is it I who shall be there ?" But rather answer in the
fullness of their hearts, "I surely will be there in spirit and
in truth. For I shall no longer tarry in the market place
idle all the day because no man hath hired me. I will go to
work at once to prepare for His coming, knowing that be I
early or late in His vineyard, if I serve in truth and sin-
cerity according to my abilities, I shall receive the reward of
seeing Him face to face, even as will those who have borne
the heat and labor of the day." Yet, the longer and the
harder we have worked for Him, the better do we under-
stand His mighty love, hence need no greater reward. For
each day brings its own blessing and each accomplishment
its joy. Even the long weary waiting for His coming per-
fects our Souls in realization and love until we seem to be
one with Him in spiritual co-operation, He in us and we in
Him. We feel His presence and know His voice. To us
there is no waiting, for He is with us always, even unto
the end.
CHAPTER V
MAN AND THE ZODIAC
PAIT I. TUE TWELVE SIGNS
"The planets are not merely spheres twinkling in space and made to
shine to no purpose but they are the domains of various Beings with
whom the uninitiated are so far unacquainted, but who have, never-
theLess, a mysterious, unbroken and powerful connection with men
and globes. Every heavenly body is the temple of a God, that these
Gods themselves are the temples of God, the Unknown.... There
is nothing profane in the Universe."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky,
i,63Z
"An immaculate white disk within a dull black background
represents Kosnios in Eternity, before the reawakening of still slum-
bering Energy. .. the same disk, but with a central point. Space
and Eternity in Pralaya, denotes the dawn of differentiation. It is the
Point in the Mundane Egg, the Germ within it which will become
the universe."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 31.
In addition to that which we have said elsewhere as to the
relation of man to the zodiac, the stars, planets, angels and
the Garden of Eden,' we wish to add the following further
explanations. That which we call God or the great First
Cause is universally represented in symbology as the Central
Point or Creative Dot in the Circle of Manifestation, the
germ within the Mundane Egg from which the manifested
universe unfolds and the center around which it revolves.
This Divine Dot may be compared to an arc-light which
radiates outward to a circumference, forming a circle of
light which is but a manifestation of the potencies of its
central point2
In the Vedic philosophy the manifestation of the divine
1 Look up these term, in the index of our ,atiou. book., especially Tb, X.j
of D.stmy, and Tb. Trash About Evoi,hon and Me Bibis. Curtis..
2 Pc. detail. ace Tb. Kay to the Uaav.rse Curtis., Chapter. I to V.
36
Man and the Zodiac 37
Creative Dot is described in terms of the human form, thus:
"Heaven is his head; the Sun and Moon his eyes; the Earth
his feet; Space his ears, and Air his breath." Following
this same symbology man, made in the image of God, may
be called the circumference or limit of a special outshining
of his Spiritual Self or Divine Dot. Each human being
would thus be a condensed and limited expression of one of
the seven differentiated aspects of God, as manifested
through the seven-fold Elohim or Cosmic Rays through
which the Divine Light of the Central Point or Godhead
shines forth. Hence in each individual the Spiritual Sun,
shining through the Higher Selfman's individualized cen-
ter or Divine Dotbecomes in its turn a primal point or a
focus through which the Divine Light shines out to the cir-
cumference formed by the limits of man's bodies, his en-
vironment and his sphere of influence.
The Higher Self thus radiates throughout its circle of
manifestation the divine qualities and attributes received
from the Spiritual Sun to the best of its ability, according
to the development and purity of man's bodies and the
clarity of his reflecting power. Therefore, man's circum-
ference or his sphere of influence containsat least poten-
tiallyall the godlike power, beauty and holiness of his
Divine or Higher Self, as well as that possibility of per-
fection which inheres in the Divine Dot of which he is an
emanation, aitho more or less distorted by his density,
lack of response to the Inner Light and his imperfections
as a reflector of that Light.
But with all his imperfections man is and must be to some
degree a reflector of the universal God-consciousness shining
through the limitations of the human personality, even
though the light he radiates may be clouded by much that is
crude and imperfect. Yet, standing as he does as the chosen
avenue of the Divine Light, he must ultimately know as he
is known and radiate even as he is the result of the radia-
tion of the Divine Light, aitho he may have to pass through
38 The Inner Radiance
much sorrow and self-created suffering, much destruction,
labor and rebuilding ere he learns to profit by his mistakes.
It is precisely because man thus inherently possesses the
attributes of the Divine, focused in his seven sacred centers,
that he is called the microcosm of the macrocosm or a Cos-
mos in miniature, an epitome of the universe, "A sentient
microcosm, pulsating in silent harmony with the more stu-
pendous macrocosm."
Therefore all the phenomena of the Cosmos $ are con-
nected with and reproduced in man. But if man deter-
minedly refuses even to try to correlate with, unfold and
manifest his innate God-powers, and chooses for his own
gratification to live only in the outer consciousness of his
animal self, that he may give free rein to the indulgence of
his lower appetites and desires, then the centers which con-
nect him with the seven planets of our solar system remain
either undeveloped or their development remains subcon-
scious or below the threshold of his consciousness, and he
remains unaware of them and their influences. Thus,
aitho the brain of such an one may be highly developed, he
remains little more than an intellectual animal. For his con-
sciousness reaches no higher than the lower realms of the
mental world and is used merely to make money his God,
to indulge his appetites, to strut before the world for ad-
miration and to glory in his ability to rise above his com-
rades, no matter how shameful and cruel the means used to
attain these ends.
We all know that when a ray of white light is passed
through a prism it breaks up into the seven colors of the
spectrum. "As below, so above." The Divine Light
which is Godcrc it reaches the limit of its special creation
or circumferenceman--shines through the Prism of Dif-
$ Astrononucally spealcine the Cosmos consists of the Sun, Moon and planet.
of this solar system. Our whole planetary system movea In a retrograde
direction through the twelve signs ot the Zodiac, which like a gigantic ring
encircle our Cosmos with numerous other solar systems. AU ,h... solar
systems revolve around one Central Sun, which I, supposed to be in the
c-'-'n Pleisdes (Mcycee)."
Man and the Zodiac 39
ferentiation and is manifested as the seven Divine Rays, the
Elohim or the seven Planetary Deities, which are the pris-
matic centers through which the white Light of Divinity
passes to be differentiated into the seven aspects through
which God manifests in the objective worlds. To illustrate:
If we had a 'lighthouse surrounded by seven windows, the
glass in each window being of one of the seven colors of
the spectrum, the rays of the pure white light in the center
would not only send out light of a different color through
each window, but the colors would take different directions
as they radiated out to the circumference. And as the
potency of color is known, each color would have a different
activity and sphere of influence, also an overlapping region
where it blended with the colors on either side.
If we hold such a picture in mind we can apply it to the
CosmosGod in the center of the seven prismatic expres-
sions (the Elohim) which stand round about His throne, and
humanity at the circumferenceand thus get a better com-
prehension of what the zodiacal and planetary forces are.
For altho God is reflected in all parts of the circumference,
each part receives directly but a portion of that Divine Light,
colored and differentiated according to the particular place
on the circumference which he occupies. Moreover, since
the colors are ever circling around the Center and since man-
kind (the circumference) is divided into twelve "tribes" or
twelve "projections of the Christ Spirit and its twelve dif-
ferentiations or subsisting intelligences upon the plane of
physical existence," man receives not alone the influence of
his Parent Ray, but of all the other Rays as well.
The "twelve tribes" are therefore the twelve aspects of
the power of God sent forth in humanity to accomplish
their ultimate work of evolution in each age. "It is not by
accident that man, struggling in this life, inwardly and out-
wardly anxious, lifts his heart up to the stars which seem
unmoved, inexorably fixed, untouched by all that stirs down
here. Indeed, their rest and calm come back to him. Their
40 The Inner Radiance
quiet and their fixedness make him quiet and fixed. Does
not man know that just as his wheel of life revolves from
cradle to grave, the planets do from coming into being until
setting?. . . But above all, he, looking at the stars from
below, is conscious of the fixedness in their revolution, the
certainty in their whizzing, the law in their fieriness. The
law which bears all these things bears him also.... This
great thought that nothing proves to be chance, is the thought
which makes man quiet when regarding the starry sky above
him."
The biblical allegory of Adam and Eve and the Garden
of Eden is an exemplification of all that we have said above,
for while this allegory has its interpretation in the body of
man, as we have explained elsewhere,' it also has its cosmic
application and is outpictured in the zodiac. Looking at
the zodiacal map, such as the one opposite page 30 in our
Key of Destiny, we find Paradise or Eden is the path of the
Sun during the summer season from Aries to Libra after it
has moved eastward from the winter solstice (Capricorn,
the manger) to the spring equinox (Aries, the resurrection).
This point in Aries is called "The Gate of Paradise" and is
formed by the horns of the Ram. In the early spring the
ram goes before the flock and with his powerful curved
horns tears up the thick underbrush of the past season and
"opens the gate" or makes a path so that the sheep and
lambs can find and feed upon the tender grass underneath.
Hence Aries is sometimes called "The outstretched arms of
the Christ" (1'), a symbol of the Good Shepherd, who points
out the path and leads His flock to the green pastures. In
this Eden we next find Taurus the bull, bearing upon his
head the solar symbol (j), who toils for us that we may
plough the ground and plant the seed or "work in the vine-
yard of the Lord."
4 4,ir.ðogj Ju T,clsrÅc: mad Eshics. C.
STbm TraSh 4b..S Rv.luti.a mad ih Li?aispten viii. ix.
Al.. ...tb. adez m cur other booke.
Man and the Zodiac 41
In the dual sign Gemini, "the Portal of the Temple," we
find that dual Soul, Adam and Eve. In Cancer we partake
of the nourishing milk in the breasts of Mother Nature (the
sign Cancer rules the breasts) on which the dual Adam and
Eve must feed. at first. But as soon as we begin to partake
of the fruits of the Garden we are confronted with the ser-
pent, for we cannot be "Born again" of a virgin (Virgo)
and reach balance in Libra (the Balances) until we have
been tempted. The serpent is said to be "more subtil' than
any beast of the field." Aitho it is absurd to class the
serpent among the beasts, yet in the field of the zodiac it is
among the beasts of that cosmic field, for it is none other
than the constellation Hydra (the Serpent) which extends
across the heavens from Cancer to Libra. It thus covers
four signs, which is one third of the zodiac, and hence is
that same "dragon" referred to in Revelation, xii, 4, whose
"tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast
them to the earth." We cannot complete the tests, work
out the results and acquire the wisdom of the serpent as long
as we remain in Eden (or evolving from Aries to Libra),
hence we must descend into the lower or physical world and
put on "coats of skin" or bodies of flesh. Astronomically,
therefore, the "fall" occurs when the Sun reaches the
autumnal equinox in Libra (the point of Balance) and be-
gins to descend or fall into the southern hemisphere, the
"pit" or the winter half of the year.
After the experience in Cancer, whose influence tends
strongly toward sensation and thus makes it the scene of
our temptation, we enter the fiery sign Leo, the Lion. Here
the Fire of Divine Love touches our heart and develops
our love and compassion, and also arouses its lower pole,
sex; for without the development of these qualities we can-
not attain our spiritual birth in the next sign, Virgo, and be
born of the Virgin, and reach the point of balance in Libra,
S$e, anng of sul*Ii in Tb. K.7 S. Sb. U.iv,ru. Curtlu,. 3!.
D
42 The Inner Radiance
where we can be guided henceforth by the characteristic of
that sign, Intuition. For after we have received our spiritual
birth it is upon our awakened Intuition that we must depend
during the rest of our journey through the period of dark-
ness while the Sun is below the equator. We thus unfold
and progress through these signs, following the same events
that Nature passes through during the seasons as the Sun
journeys eastward through the "garden eastward in Eden,"
until we have entered into "the covenant of grace" (Libra)
at the end of our summer period.
Some astrologers hold that Adam and Eve symbolize
Gemini, the Twins. Hence, as they fall from Eden
and sink below the western horizon, the constellation Perseus
(the Angel with the Flaming Sword) appears in the East
to guard the gates to Eden until we have passed through all
the experiences of the lower physical world (the winter
period of the Soul) and have conquered death and reached
our resurrection and are ready to re-enter Eden, thus com-
pleting the cycle of manifestation or out-going, the "Cycle
of Necessity" and becoming one with our Father-in-
Heaven.
In common with the symbology of all spiritual truths, we
must find them manifested on all planes. Hence, could we
not find their expression both in the zodiac and in man, we
would be justified in doubting their spiritual origin and uni-
versality. Applying this symbology to manT we find that,
in the path of the Spiritual Sun as it finds expression
through us, Eden is the perfect spiritual body which we in-
habit while existing in the higher realms, but out of which
man cast himself when he disobeyed the command not to eat
of the fruit of the Tree in the midst of the Garden,1 and fol-
lowed after the desires of the flesh instead of those of the
Higher Self. In this personal application of the allegory
TL0& up "Edus" in our The Voic, of lass. TA. Key of Desii.y, The
Messog, of 4qisari. and The Traits 4bouI EVOMHOa .ad the DiSk. Curt,u.
$ See The Voice of 1w. Curtiu, 244.
Man and the Zodiac 43
the Angels who guard the gates of Eden are the Lords of
Karma, whose flaming swords "which turn every way" will
keep mankind from entering into the higher spiritualized
bodywhere he shall eat of the Tree of Life and live for
ever moreuntil through great toil and labor and by the
"sweat of his brow" he has purified himself and lifted the
curse which his disobedience brought upon himself and all
the lower kingdoms.
The Lord God who walked in the Garden was not God
the Father, but the embodiment of the Law of Good. This
is made plain by the fact that when Adam and Eve ceased
to live in harmony with that Law that mighty Angel could
no longer see them, and could commune with them only
when they answered the vibrations of His call. Up to the
time of their fall into matter they were spiritual and semi-
ethereal beings, who had "walked and talked" or lived in
perfect harmony with the higher aspect of the Law, but by
their disobedience in eating of the forbidden fruit they "hid
themselves," i.e., their vibrations were so lowered that the
Angel could not see them.' Hence the Angel was obliged
to call "Where art thou?" to which Adam answered, "I was
afraid, because I was naked." Only then did the Lord
(Law) make for them "coats of skin"; in other words they
became completely clothed or incarnated in bodies of flesh
on the physical plane, just as at this point the Earth became
clothed with thorns and thistles (antagonistic and opposing
forms of life) because of man's misuse of his creative
powers. And as a result of his disobedienëe, in sorrow has
man eaten of the fruits of the Earth ever since.
Ever since the disobedience of the early Races, who lis-
tened to the beguiling of the serpent-force which led them
into the black magic which resulted in the sinking of At-
lantis, man has forgotten that the serpent was in reality
Saturn, the Tester, one of the sons of God, who had to de-
Sec TIE. Mi*isfry of 4.sgdz. Curtise, 4.
44 The Inner Radiance
termine how man would use his newly acquired creative
powers before he could be allowed to go on. "The so-called
temptation was but a test as to man's ability either to use or
abuse this divine gift.... The power was given him not
as a temptation, but as a step in evolution through which he
must pass in perfect purity Man has chosen to become
'as gods,' knowing the evil through the misuse of this power,
but crc the cycle closes, he must become 'as gods' to know
the good."1'
lOS TÅe Voice .f Sw. Coido.. 2464.
CHAPTER VI
MAN AND THE ZODIAC
PAIr IL THE CONSTELLATIONS
"Humanity and the stars are bound together indissolubly, because
of the Intelligences that rule them."TlIe Secret Doctrine. Blavatslcy,
ii. 36&
"Just as we imagine the coining into being of the material centers
of power of the planets, by contraction of matter around a center, so
we may imagine the human body as having arisen by the condensing
of the more ethereal chicles of the Ego."Astrology, C Aq. Libya,
"There is one glory of the mm, and another glory of the moon, and
another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star in
glory."! Corinthian,s, xv, 41.
It is well in this chapter to answer the criticism of cer-
tain astronomers that students of astrology frequently seem
to confuse the zodiacal signs with the constellations having
the same name, and use them as synonymous terms, while as
a matter of fact the constellations are neither equal in size,
as are the signs, nor do they coincide exactly with the 300
of each sign. On this account the Sun could not remain in
each constellation the same length of time in passing through
them as it does in each sign. Were the ancient Chaldean
(later called Babylonian) understanding of astrology more
widely known today there would be less confusion in the
use of such terms. But, like all scientific subjects translated
into foreign languages, unless the translator is also a student
of the subject and thoroughly familiar with its technicalities
and their mode of expression, many inaccuracies, misconcep-
tions and vague expressions are bound to occur and thus
mislead those who study such translations.
45
46 The fnncr Radiance
The Chaldeans, when spealdng of the influence of the
signs, referred to the mystic potencies of the constellations
contained in the signs, rather than to the physical or astro-
nomical forces of the particular stars composing their con-
stellations. That these characteristic influences were well
known to the ancients is evidenced by the seemingly casual
inquiry of Job: "Canst thou bind the sweet influence of
the Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion ?" This teaching
the Hebrews evidently got from the Chaldeans, for their re-
puted founder, Abraham, is represented as coming from Ur
of the Chaldees. Therefore, since the constellations vary
widely in size and in the number and brilliancy of the stars
composing them, the twelve groups of stars comprising the
zodiac cannot be divided into twelve equal parts covering
30° each as are the signs, although the constellations do, with
some overlapping, fall fairly within the limits of the signs.
Furthermore, in Chaldean astrologyas well as in the
more ancient Wisdom Religionit was an axiom that the
macrocosm, or the universe, and the microcosm, man, were
epitomes each of the other, one not being a copy of the
other, but both being the result of the outshining df the Di-
vine Dot in the center of their respective circles of mani-
festation. Hence to know man the ancients studied the
constellations and their influences, and vice versa, to know
the constellations they studied man. For the various organs
or viscera of man are but the counterpart in him of the
constellations ruling the zodiacal signs, and the influence of
the organs in man's body is similar to the influence of the
corresponding constellations (organs or viscera) in the body
of the Heavenly Man of the zodiac, and vice versa.
Just as the stars of heaven are grouped in certain forms
called constellations, grouped together because each group
is the radient or distributor of a characteristic force and
performs a definite function in the universe quite different
from the stars in other groupsthe individual stars cor-
responding to the cells of the organ or group, so in the body
Man and the Zodiac 47
of man we find certain cells, specialized in form and func-
tion, grouped into tissues and orgahs which express a char-
acteristic force and function. Each such group, organ or
constellation of cells is necessary to the health, life and per-
fect functioning of the body as a whole. Each organ is
separate and distinct, yet they all correlate with and re-
inforce each other in perfect harmony, just as the con-
stellations influence, sustain and help to hold in mundane
manifestation the body of the Heavenly Man, the Cosmos.
Scientists tell us that we must regard the body 'as a col-
lective organism consisting of a huge colony of micro
organisms becoming capable of a common life by common
and mutual arrangement and differentiation of function, and
by toleration and utilization of each other's peculiar prod
ucts." In this co-operating colony of organs we find the
heart as the central organ. And although the liver, lungs,
brain, stomach, etc., are much larger in size and contain a
vastly greater number of cells, nevertheless the influence of
the heart on the organism is far more important, for with-
out its force and function none of the other organs could
live and carry on their functions, while many of the other
organs may be removed and the body still live on after a
fashion. Similarly, although the adrenal glands are very
tiny organs resting upon the upper end of the kidneys, with-
out the hormones which they elaborate and contribute to the
blood stream the tonicity of the arteries, and therefore the
circulation of the blood, could not be maintained. This
shows that the importance of the organs does not depend
upon their size. In fact, we see that this is a law of Nature,
for nothing is really great or of vital importance except as
measured by the quality of the function it contributes to the
welfare and evolution of the whole.
This is as true of the starsin which the tiny group of
the Pleiades contains the heart center (Alcyone) around
which the whole Cosmos revolvesand of society, in which
we see the great masses of the ignorant and unevolved led
48 The Inner Radiance
and guidedand we are sorry to say often wrongfully ex-
ploitedby the enlightened few. Yet the few who lead in
the various fields of the world's advancescience, industry,
art, religion, etc.accomplish more for the advancement of
the whole by their activities or functions in the body politic
than do the combined activities of the great masses who are
thus led. Nevertheless, all classes are needed, just as are all
the organs of the body and all the constellations of heaven,
each to perform its own function in its own place and man-
ner, yet all co-operating with each other, the few to plan,
lead and direct, the mass to execute or manifest the plans for
the good of all.
True democracy and co-operation must therefore follow
the pattern written by the hand of God both in the stars and
in the body of men. And only when the leaders of man-
kind awaken from their selfish aims to this fact and are
willing to copy that Divine Plan, can the nations truly co-
operate and function together harmoniously and fulfill the
angelic prophecy, "On earth peace, good will toward men."
When we speak of organs in the body of society we mean
types of thought or ideals or groups of persons who hold
similar ideals, each individual finding his own work and
most perfect expression within the organ or group to which
his thoughts and ideals affinitize him.
The physical Sun is the heart of our solar system and like
the heart of man it sends out a stream of the Divine One
Lifewhich it receives from the Spiritual Sunto all the
members of our solar system. As it makes its yearly jour-
ney through the circle of the zodiac this stream of Divine
Life-forcethe Cosmic Christ-forceboth focuses its force
in the signs and constellations and also gathers up their spe-
cialized influences and cleanses them, just as the blood in
man, as it passes through each organ, both nourishes it and
gathers up its products, eliminating or transmuting the de-
structive elements and utilizing the constructive forces and
radiating the latter to the circumference of the body and of
Man and the Zodiac 49
the aura. The zodiac may therefore be likened to a gigan-
tic switchboard upon which the twelve differentiated aspects
of the Christ-force--the One Lifeare focused and through
which these specialized aspects are radiated to the Cosmos
and to man. Por man, being the microcosm, has within him
focal points through which the forces of the signs and con-
stellations contact and influence him.
The zodiac is divided into twelve signs because twelve is
the number of the Manifested Universe.' Since a circle con-
tains 360°, as the Divine Dot of God Consciousness (focused
physicaily in the Sun) unfolds into a circle of Divine Light,
it must be expressed in twelve divisions, for the Divine Trin-
ityGod the Father, the Mother and the Sonmust mani-
fest its three-fold power in the material universe in each one
of the four elements, earth, air, fire and water (3 X 4= 12),
through which the Godhead must find material expression,
thus showing that the Divine cannot manifest in matter com-
pletely except in a twelve-fold manner.
Therefore, when man has completely developed and ex-
pressed the Trinity (body, mind and Spirit) within his circle
of manifestationthe microcosmic zodiac of his personality
or has balanced all the microcosmic forces which he re-
ceives from the zodiac and which he is destined some day to
correlate and radiate in perfect equilibrium, he will have de-
veloped within him the twelve avenues through which the
God within him will find complete manifestation (Mastery).
But at present, since each individual expresses but a part
of the forces he receives, Sand that imperfectlyalthough
he receives the forces from all the twelve signshis aura is
not a perfect sphere, and we speak of him as a Leo, a Taurus
or an Aquarian, etc., according to the predominant force he
expresses (usually the force of the sign in which he is born),
as revealed by his horoscope.
But ultimately each one must balance all the forces in him-
-
-
I See Th X. of Dessiisy, Curtis.. Chapter V.
SO The Inner Radiance
self during his many incarnations on Earth. To do this he
must be born under the influence of each of the twelve signs
until he learns their lessons and correlates with and balances
their forces. This will require at least twelve incarnations
in each sign, but when he has completed this cycle of 12 X 12
he becomes one of the mystical 144,000 who were the first
because they have consciously striven and made definite cf-
forts to advance faster than the slow stream of evolution of
the massesto be sealed with the seal of Christhood and
become ready to re-enter Eden or the perfect spiritualized
boc!y out of which they were cast because of their mistakes
when they descended into the cycle of material incarnation.
But the great mass of mankind, who make no conscious cf-
fort to advance, may require several hundred incarnations
in each sign, since most of us do not learn our lessons the
first time we go over them, but go over and over them many
times before they are mastered.
There can be no effect of spiritual force manifested in
matter without, firstly, a radiant focal point or spiritual cen-
ter of forcewhich being spiritual is invisibleand sec-
ondly, a visible circumference of matter as the limit of the
circle of its radiation. This circumference will naturally
divide into twelve regions, corresponding to the twelve signs,
because the twelve streams of force from the spiritual cen-
ter must each find focal points and register in a correspond-
ing and suitable environment. The New Jerusalem or
Sacred City is therefore represented as having twelve gates,
at each of which a sentinel stands to guard the portal so that
no thing unworthy or inimical to the safety, harmony and
peace of the city may enter.
There are also twelve vital salts in the body which, car-
ried to the tissues and organs by the blood, are necessary to
the health and functioning of the body, just as the cosmic
currents of force or "blood of the Cosmos" carry the twelve
influences of the zodiac through the body of the Heavenly
Man. This cosmic stream of Divine Life-force is called the
Man and the Zodiac Si
blood of the Cosmic Christ, which both nourishes and
cleanses, just as does its counterpart in man, the physical
blood. It is to this spiritual "blood" or ri rce' to
which so many references are made in the New Testament,
especially as to its power to cleanse from sin; for only as we
imbibe or are literally bathed in the stream of this radiant
Cosmic Christ-blood can we be cleansed from our sins or
impurities of mind and body. We therefore seek the truth
of the mystical injunétion, "Except ye eat my flesh and drink
my blood there is no (spiritual) life in you," although it is a
most revolting and cannibalistic idea if taken literally.
We are also told to "Feed on Him in thy heart with faith
and thanksgiving," i.e., through a definite effort understand
what 'the "blood of the Christ" is, and so let the understand-
ing of its mystical Divine Presence within us give us the life
that is one with all manifestations of life in ourselves and in
the Cosmos. Thus will this understanding feed and nour-
ish our Inner Self even as the blood of the body feeds and
sustains the physical body and its functions.
As we cannot accomplish all this at once, nor perhaps in
one incarnationalthough in some incarnation we must com-
plete itas we feed or meditate upon the idea and seek to
understand and assimilate it we find the mind of our divine
Higher Self radiating through and permeating more and
more our lower human mind and consciousness. And since
it is in our Higher Mind that the results of all experiences
in all lives are stored up, as we correlate with the Higher
Mind we are enable4 to go back in consciousness through
past lives and gather the stored up lessons of the experiences
of the past, much as the Sun recedes backward through the
constellations (through precession) and gathers up their
forces. Thus do the great Lords of Karma bring about the
adjustment of all conditions, both in the Cosmos and in
man; for they make man face conditions until he learns just
wherein he has failed and how to start out on a new cycle
2Rcview tbc iwomi on The R.du.v Cattle..
52 The Inner Radiance
in a New Age of cosmic unfoldment with new ideas and in-
creased powers. This also accounts for the apparently sud-
den changes in the mind of niankind at certain cyclic periods.
Just so in the individual. As he comes into closer and
closer union with his divine Higher Self he is more and more
washed in the blood of the Christ and enabled to take up the
conditions and Karma of the past with greater comprehen-
sion and greater power and thus work with the great Law
of Karma to straighten out and adjust the legacy of the past
in the life of the present. But since it is only through the
consciousness of the Higher Self that the experiences of the
past can be understood and utilized, let no one attempt to
penetrate, through the use of mere psychic powers, the veil
tht is mercifully drawn over the past, for the knowledge so
gained is usually misunderstood and misleading and often is
disastrous. It is far better simply to rely upon the Divine
Law to bring to us that which is necessary day by day, know-
ing that when the time is ripe and it is best for us to know,
all things now hidden will be revealed.
CHAPTER VII
THE LORD FROM HEAVEN
"The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord
from heaven.... And as we have borne the image of the earthy,
we shall also bear the image of the heavenly."! Corinthians, xv,
47-49.
"The Progenitors of Man, called in India 'Fathers, Pitaras,' or
(lunar) 'Pitris,' are the 'Creator' of cur bodies and lower principles.
The Endowers of man with his conscious, immortal Ego, are
the 'Solar Angels.'... The esoteric name of these 'Solar Angels'
is, literally, the 'Lords.' "The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, ii, 92.
Change is essential to all growth and progress, even the
changes of disintegrationwhether of old forms, customs,
habits or thoughtsthat new and better types may manifest.
The sweet and helpless babe, passing through great changes
in outward form and appearance, becomes the stern and re-
lentless man of affairs. The tiny sprout becomes the sap-
ling and the giant tree, oftenas with the eucalyptus tree
changing the shape and color of its leaves and its manner
of growth at different ages.
But when we are asked to apply this same Law of Change
to mankind and to the Earth, many in amazement shrink
back with fear at the rumors of unrest and the seeming dis-
astrous changes, in thought and belief as well as in condi-
tions, which are revealed as necessary and inevitable in the
growth and progress of humanity and the globe.1 But if we
once understand that all change and progress take place ac-
cording to the divine, cyclic Law of Manifestation,2 we need
not fear the outcome, either for ourselves or for humanity
iSee Coini Wodi Cheep,:. Curttu.
See The Vows of iÍ,, Curtlu, 192.
33
54 The Inner Radiance
as a whole. What we should do is to open wide.through
aspiration, prayer and meditationthat inner door of our
consciousness which unites the human and thern Divine, that
we may understand the Divine Plan and teach humanity to
work in harmony with it.
In the quotation at the head of this chapter St. Paul epit-
omizes the distinction and the relation between the physical-
intellectual human personalitythe man of earthand that
immortal Spiritual Self which seeks expression on Earth
through the personality. "The first man is of the earth,
earthy; the second man is the Lord from Heaven." And it
is the pressure of this Inner Man, the Lord from Heaven,
for ever greater recognition and expression in this new
Aquarian Age, that is the cause back of the great unrest
and the great seeking for new and higher manifestations of
Truth in all avenues of expression in the world today.
Quite naturally some seekers go to the extreme, some cults
holding that since there can be no imperfection in God and
since man is a son of God, man as he manifests today is nec-
essarily perfect and divine, and that his obvious defects and
limitations are only errors of thought. But St. Paul reveals
no such limited knowledge of the Law and makes no such
mistake in philosophy, for he clearly distinguishes between
the imperfect man of flesh and the perfect Man of Spirit,
and reveals to us the method of their correlation. To under-
stand this relation we must remember that during the early
Races man was far from being as perfectly developed and
intellectual as he is today, and that he is still unfinished and
evolving. For the body was created by a lesser hierarchy
the Lunar Angelsof Creative Beings, and many experi-
ments and mistakes were made and discarded in their efforts
to build up a material organism which would ultimately em-
body the Divine Ideal and become a fit instrument through
which the Spiritual Self could find expression in this world
of matter. For to express in any world the. Spirit must have
an instrument composed of the substance of that world
The Lord from Heaven 55
which it must learn to use and control.* And it was only
when this primitive animal organismsymbolized by the
Adam who was created out of the dust of the groundhad
reached the human stage, that the higher Creative Hierarchy,
the Solar Angelswere able to endow him "with his con-
scious, immortal Ego," so that he only then became "a living
Soul," i.e., a human body plus the incarnation of an immor-
tal, spiritual, individualized Ray of the Divine, called both
by St. Paul and occult philosophy "the Lord from Heaven."
Is it any wonder then that the Spiritual Man has not been
able to manifest more of his divine perfection through
a bodily organism which is still so imperfect and unevolved
and which responds so sluggishly to the guidance of that
inner Spiritual Self? Is it any wonder that thought alone
cannot bring this imperfect organism to instant perfection?
Yet, this human body is the kingdom which the Lord from
Heaven must learn to rule and perfect until the "celestial
body," of which St. Paul and occult philosophy speak, can
be manifested through the physical. The word "Lord" is
used by both the authorities quoted to signify one who has
been given a kingdom and the power and authority to rule
it, and for which he is responsible; for the Lord from
Heaven was sent from God to this Earth to help on and
perfect its evolution and rule it through perfected Man.
As the mind of primitive man developed and expanded,
his body became more nearly perfected, refined and sensi-
tive; yet it also reacted more strongly to his states of mind,
his emotions and the thought-forces which he created as his
intellect developed. And as many of those forces and cre-
ations were inharmonious and destructive, his body has re-
acted in sickness and disease. From the days of the most
primitive ucave man," the development of man's mind has
enabled him to help on the evolution of himself, the Earth
and all its kingdoms. He learned how to use fire, how to
* See Tb. Vow, of 1w,, Curtiu, Chapters XII and XVIL See also Tb.
Trust, 4bo,us E*JuSw,, ..,d she DIM. Curtis..
56 The Inner Radiance
cultivate the soil and improve the crops, how to breed higher
types of animals, how to harness the streams, tame the
lightning and later create higher types of thought (altruism,
literature and greater expressions of beauty, art, music,
etc.), all contributing to a greater manifestation of the Ideal,
aitho all his creations still bear the imprint of his limita-
tions and mistakes.
All these changes have followed in great cyclic waves of
civilization, alternately manifesting in a crest of achievement
and advance toward the Ideal, and then as a trough of reac-
tion during the so-called Dark Ages. But today the great
changes which all mankind more or less vaguely feel impend-
ing, without dearly understanding, will not be simply the
result of the next upward surge of the waves of evolution
and civilization, but will be the result of a mighty tidal wave
due to a very particular cycle; for it will be the gathering up
of the lesser waves of many separate cycles, all of which
now culminate together to usher in the new Great Cycle of
the Aquarian Age. And altho we are now passing
through the stormy season on the sea of life which ushers in
a new springtime for humanity and are now deep in the
trough of the sea, when the coming mighty tidal wave
breaks, many, many old things will be swept awayphysi-
cally, mentally, politically, industrially, socially, etc.and all
things be made new: new not so much outwardly as new in
man's understanding of and attitude toward them, because
that which has long been misunderstood or hidden from his
consciousness shall be revealed. And this revelation will be
possible because of man's increasing response to the inspira-
tion and guidance of the Lord from Heaven within.
The fundamental reason for this inner quickening and
changing of the thought of manicind is that the culminating
together at this time of many cycles permits the manifçsta-
tion and reappearance of the great COinic Lord from
Heaven, the Solar Logos, the Divine Ruler of Mankind, the
mighty Avatar or Son of God, with His holy angels, whose
The Lord from Heaven 57
advent is expected so soon, under various names and condi-
tions, by nearly all the races of mankind His near approach
quickens and gives greater power to the individualized Ray
of the Divine in each Soul, the mighty I Am Presence or
the personal Lord from Heaven, and stimulates it to seek
greater manifestation in the individual through whatever
avenues of expression it has been able to develop in the
human personality.
But the potency of the spiritual force of the Cosmic Lord
from Heaven also stimulates all the unconquered opposition
of the man of flesh to the reign of his personal Lord from
Heaven. Hence we have the strange paradox that while we
see around us a greater desire for brotherhood and co-opera-
tion Between nations, a greater revival in religious and spir-
itual matters and psychic investigation of the unseen, a
greater expression of altruism and sympathy for the unfor-
tunate, a greater outpouring of philanthropy, charity and
help from fortunate persons and nations to those in distress,
than the world has ever seen before, amidst all this we also
see a greater materialism, a greater lawlessness and selfish-
ness, crime waves, racketeering and general loss of respect
for all law, authority and restraint, and a greater individual
and national ambition and pride of separateness (national-
ism) than the world has ever known heretofore.
But just as the solid and seemingly impervious and un-
alterable barriers of ice and snow of winter are melted and
swept away as the Sun of springtime rises higher and higher,
so will the rising of the Spiritual Sun, the Cosmic Lord from
Heaven, melt the barriers of opposition, separation, inbar-
mony and strife among the classes and nations and usher
in a new spiritual springtime of peace, harmony and en-
operation among the various dasses, nations and races of
mankind. For those who refuse to respond to this new out-
pouring of the Sun of Righteousnesswhether individuals
or nationswill be swept away in the coming ratarlysins,'
}or ddalb .es Co.g WorM Cksuges Cartiu.
B
58 The Inner Radiance
together with the great forces of evil created by man which
have accumulated as the debris of humanity's past winter
period.
This is not a picture of disaster and hopelessness, any
more than the freshets of any springtime necessarily spell
disaster and hopelessness; for St. Paul tells us plainly that
the Lord from Heaven shall triumph and "As we have borne
the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the
heavenly." How thoroughly we have borne the image of
the man of earth! How it has dominated and been allowed
to rule us, permitting only a vibration now and then to reach
us from the Lord from Heaven! And because of this, how
we have been taught to despise the man of earth and have
struggled to kill him out! But we now see that, as an in-
strument and necessary vesture of the Soul, the man of flesh
must be purified and trained to respond obediently to the
Lord from Heaven, and ultimately be redeemed and fully
spiritualized by Him; for "flesh and blood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God; neither can corruption inherit incor-
ruption."
We therefore should not make the mistake of denying our
obvious faults, mistakes, incompleteness and limitations, nor
need we affirm that we are now perfect or able to mani-
fest perfection; for we know that our bodies and minds will
not be fully evolved before the end of the present Fifth
Great Racewe are now just entering its sixth sub-race-
and our spiritual development cannot be fully perfected be-
fore the close of the Sixth Great Race millions of years
hence.' Even though we do not know exactly what we shall
be in those far distant days, we can say with the Psalmist,
"I shall be satisfied when I awake, with thy likeness," le.,
with the likeness of our individual Lord from Heaven.
Hence we will not all be alike, but each will be the perfect
expression of the individual Soul which God intended us
to be.
IPor dctala see The Voice .f lair CurtIs., 230-9.
The Lord from Heaven 59
But we should realize that we are constantly evolving to-
ward that perfection more rapidly now than ever before, and
our pressing, personal duly now is to prepare ourselves for
greater service i this coming New Age. Our steadfast aim
should therefore be to open the door of spiritual understand-
ingthe Door of the Silenceand realize the perfection and
power which the Lord from Heavenour own Higher Self
is trying to manifest through us now, that through this
realization the radiations of the spiritual life-force and the
Christ-consciousness of that Spiritual Self may more fully
penetrate into and permeate every particle of our human
personality and thus more rapidly drive out all opposition,
inharmony and imperfection and embody those Divine Ra-
diations within our very flesh. As we thus express more
and more of the inner Spiritual Man we will grow more
and more into the image of the heavenly man and thus make
possible the manifestation through us of the Lord from
Heaven.
When this has been accomplished we will no longer have
to lament with St. Paul: 'When I would do good, evil is
present with me"; for the Lord from Heaven will have
given us the victory over the man of earth, and we shall
be able to say: "I delight in the Law of God after the in-
ward man."
Therefore, when we hear of wars and rumors of wars
and have to face change, disturbance, upheavals and cata-
clysms, either in our own conditions and lives or in those
of the world at large, our hearts need not be troubled nor
our faith in the Divine Overshadowing be weakened, for we
know that all these things are but passing phases of the great
cleansing and preparation so necessary for the coming of
our Lord from Heaven. Those who are of the earth, earthy,
or who ding to the things of Earth must perish with the
Earth, but they who have separated that which is earthy
within themselves and have placed it under the dominion of
Rowais. yji, 21-2.
60 The Inner Radiance
the Lord from Heaven will live thereafter with their Lord.
No tribulation can affect us if we trust and believe and
tiy to correlate with our Lord from Heaven within and
endeavor to manifest Him without. Let us kneel, there-
fore, in glad and humble adoration before his Shining Pres-
ence and be baptized with the spiritual waters of His divine
Life and Love and Beauty, and realize that all is well.
It will be a great help to this realization if we repeat the
Prayer to the Divine Indweller as given by us elsewhere?
"Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou who art myself and yet art God!
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection,
That the flesh may outpicture all that Thou art within!
Even so, come, 0 Lord. Amen."
Tm. MesJ.ge 4 Aqis.d., Curtiu 477. Pr..vs of tA, 0. C. IL, Cur-
CHAPTER VIII
THE SOUL-LANGUAGE
"For then I will turn to the people a pure language, that they may
all call upon the name of the Lord, to serve Him with one consent."-
Zepisoniak, iii, 9.
"My lips shalL utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
My tongue shall speak of thy word; for all thy commandments are
righteous."Psalms, cxix 171-171
"Oh that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for
His wpnderful works to the children of men.... Then they cry unto
the Lord in their trouble, and He bringeth them out of their dis-
tresses. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are
stllL"Psalms, cvii, 21, 28-29.
In the biblical story of man on this planet one of the early
symbolic pictures represents all mankind as being of one
speech, gathered into one place, and as saying, "Let us build
us a city and tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and
let us make us a name, lest we be scattered upon the face of
the whole earth."1 This story allegorizes firstly the innate
tendency of mankind to seek approbation and recognition.
So ingrained is this desire that it is one of the great, almost
unconscious, well-springs of human endeavor and is largely
responsible for that laudable ambition whose effort to excel
is one of the important factors in the progress of mankind.
In fact, it might almost be ranloed as the third great human
hunger, following closely upon the hunger for food and sex
expression. So fundamental is this tendency that it is ex-
hibited alike by the child who cries: "Look at me! See
what I can do!", the strut of the general clad in a glittering
uniform and decorated with medals, and on up to the king
upon his throne.
1Gj,, xi. A.
61
62 The Inner Radiance
This desire for personal recognition springs not from mere
vanity, as it would seem at first sight, aitho it often re-
inforces and encourages it, but from a vague realization of
the Soul's essential divinity and the necessity of the human
personality to reach up to and become worthy of recognition
by, and ultimately become one with, the Soul, the Spiritual
or Higher Self. Not understanding the source and purpose
of this innate desire or urge upward man naturally uses all
his physical powers and all his mental faculties to build a
great tower of personality not, as it should be, that such a
perfected personality shall be a more perfect instrument
through which he can reach up to heaven, gain greater un-
derstanding of God and realize man's oneness with the Di-
vizie Self, but merely to gain humaninstead of spiritual
recognition and make a great name for himself.
This tendency was acquired even before he put on "coats
of ki2 and incarnated in a body of flesh; when he was
still an ethereal being, long before he was born on Earth.
In fact, his ability to recognize and manifest his oneness
with the Divine while still incarnated in the flesh in this
lowest physical world was one of the great lessons he had
come to this planet to learn. Therefore, having passed
through certain ethereal and spiritual stages of evolution on
other planets, the Lord or the Divine Law decreed that he
must learn the lesson of unity in duality, i.e., both by in-
carnating in separated sexes and by learning to differentiate
the human and the Divine in himself and give perfect serv-
ice to both. He must learn to recognize, give absolute al-
legiance to and use the powers of the Divine Self within
him, and also learn that as a man it is his duty, under the
direction of his Inner Guidance, to develop all his human
faculties and functions and thus perfect his personality, in-
stead of starting with the personality and hoping to develop
a Spiritual Self. In other words, he must recognize that
he is essentially a spiritual being made in the Image of God,'
2For c1-''- ace Tb. Trtk AbceS EV.iIIHce .ad Sb. Bible. Ortiu.
The Soul-Language 63
endeavoring to manifest through a physical body, and not a
God masquerading in the image of man.
This dense physical planet is the school-ground whereon
man must learn primarily to conquer and use constructively
both his physical and his God-powers; his creative powers
of spirit, mind and body, as well as his physical powers,
within the limitations of Earth conditions. Only so can he
conquer his physical limitations and win his spiritual free-
dom; for both must be perfected because both are but oppo-
site sides of the shield given him for his salvation.
After the dramatic lesson of the Tower of Babel, man
should have learned that he cannot climb to heaven and "be
as gods, knowing good and evil," through physical and men-
tal prowess alone. But the vast majority of mankind have
not learned this lesson as yet. In fact, humanity is only
beginning to find out, through sad experience, that all things
and conditions can and should be used for good and as God
intended but that even good things can be turned into evil
if used to oppose the Divine Law or for mere self-indul-
gence and the aggrandizement of the personality.
Man has had to learn through repeated failures that his
human body and his mental faculties are not all-powerful
or even completely satisfying; that they are but "of the
earth earthy," capable of both good and evil according to
their use. It is his Inner or Spiritual Self that is the Lord
from Heaven,' one with the everlasting Father, and it is
through the power of this Spiritual Self or Image of God4
that he must learn to rule the personality and all its thoughts,
desires and acts, and thus conquer this world of materiality;
a new and important world wherein mighty lessons must be
learned. For he must learn to find in this world all the
physical helps needed for his evolution and perfect manifes-
tation here on Earth, just as he must find the spiritual helps
in the higher realms.
$See aiapter VI! herein.
4See The Truth 4bo.S Evdutbu mud Ike BbIe, Curtis., (.$er XIX.
64 The Inner Radiance
The allegory of the Tower of Babel S tells us that the
Lord caine down and confounded the speech of those who
were building the tower. The various races of men were
never intended to speak the same physical language, for they
were evolved, not in one spot or from one primordial pair,'
but as independent races scattered over the Earth under
varied conditions. Language is developed as a method of
expressing thoughts, desires and instincts under the condi-
tions of a certain locality and of a certain race-type. Physi-
cal man looks outward at physical problems and must express
his reaction to the problems of his environment. Therefore,
it is inevitable that different Races see things from different
angles, hence express them differently. This is a wise pro-
vision; for the mortal man is limited, and varied aspects
give a more perfect picture of the whole. But the inner
Spiritual Man is not limited. The same Spiritual Essence
animates all humanity. Hence we must recognize the great
truth that while outwardly humanity expresses the seven di-
verse race-types of thought, the God-consciousness within
all has the power to unite all types of thought into one uni-
fied spiritual consciousness. This is the law of "unity in
diversity," a lesson of great importance for mankind to
grasp, especially at this particular era of changing planetary
conditions.
We have already laid before our students an outline of
the great changes that are pending in this world of ours?
Especially have we emphasized the power of man to mini-
mize the destruction and suffering due to these changes,
provided he will unite to that end in the use of his spiritual
forces and in the use of the powers he can invoke from the
higher worlds which surround him. But to do so he must
listen within to the one Soul-language of the Inner Self
which speaks silently yet distinctly in the hearts of all who
S Ce,s,su. xl.
Se. Ti.. Vice4Isu C
7 Ses C.mu.g WvId L6irXVIL
The Soul-Langua9e 65
will listen. But if man persists in identifying himself exclu-
sively with the outer physical personality and its diverse and
separative languages he will find his way of looking at things
so confounded that, like the builders of the Tower of Babel,
he will find that the cataclysmic changes will be the neces-
sary instruments of the Great Law to scatter rather than
unite all mankind, so that they will be obliged to leave off
building their towers of personal conceptions of world con-
ditions. The Lord "bringeth them out of their distress,"
not because our prayers have induced Him to change His
mind, but because we have learned to work with His forces
according to His laws; because we have learned to speak
with one tongue, the Soul-language.
Broken law inevitably brings about unbalanced conditions,
and a rebalancing must necessarily take place, either con-
structively by consciously working with the Law before the
unbalanaced tower topples, or destructively after the top-
pling over takes place. The world will continue to "reel to
and fro" or have its cyclic changes in a more or less disas-
trous fashion until a sufficient portion of mankind has
learned the great lesson of uniting in speaking the one
tongue, the Soul-language. It is those who call upon the
Divine Law in this language who will be "brought out of
their distress." The great lesson then for humanity to learn
is that while the language of physical man may be ever so
diverse, the language of the Spiritual Manthe Soul-lan-
guageis one and must ultimately become the language of
all in guiding their relations one with the other.
Let us then begin to learn this lesson at once. During the
coming days let us concentrate upon realizing (i.e., making
real) that we are both body and Soul, and that each of them
can speak, yet each awakens quite different vibrations and
causes different reactions. Think of the Soul, not as some
part of us that we must "save," nor yet as a great Being
who watches our every act and thought in a critical attitude
and marks down each mistake in a great book to be corrected
66 The Inner Radiance
through bitter struggle and much suffering by the personal-
ity. Think of the Soul as an individualized divine Ray of
God and one with Him, which has come down to Earth and
voluntarily clothed Itself in various vestures until it mani-
fests in the physical body, that it may inform, inspire, guide
and help the man of flesh until he can understand this mys-
tery of the Divine manifesting through the human. Thus
will we learn what we truly are, and how to look within for
the God-powers given us with which to accomplish the mani-
festation of our True Self in the flesh. Until this is learned
mankind must ever be in turmoil.
Once we understand this mystery, whenever we are con-
fronted with a task which to our outer consciousness seems
impossible, we will call upon our spiritual consciousness, the
Higher or mighty I Am Presence, for illumination and help,
realizing that the Soul has the power to guide us even in the
physical and seemingly little things of life. As we practice
this reoJizalion of the presence of the Divine within we will
soon be surprised to find that by calling upon the Inner Self
we can accomplish anything that the Great Law brings to us
as our duty or as the next step in evolution and progress.
Many earnest seekers have been taught that they must
find this help and guidance through the powers of their own
mentality, but after many heart-breaking disappointments
they find that while the mind has marvelous powers it is
often confronted with problems it cannot solve of itself.
Then it must appeal to the spiritual guidance of the I Am-
consciousness and make itself but an humble instrument so
that the Soul can use all the faculties of the mind and all
the functions and powers of the body to manifest Its will
and accomplish Its desired ends.
Since all Souls are individualized Rays of the one Spir-
itual Sun raying out in all directions and gathering all the
experiences and forces of the planet, all Souls meet in one-
ness at the Center where Divinity is found. When our
minds grasp this picture we can understand how God and
The Soul-Language 67
His Christ can be everywhere and manifest unto all beings
at the same time. Just as the physical Sun gives its light
and heat and all its powers to everything it shines upon, and
without being diminished itself, so can the Spiritual Sun
shed all its powers upon and illumine every heart, all at the
same time, with that "true light which lighteth every man
that cometh into the world."
True religion is but the organized expression of the tui-
tion or Soul-language which each Soul receives from the
Divine. Yet, alas, because of the tendency of the unen-
lightened mortals to consider the physical body supreme
since it correlates with physical conditions, can be seen,
etc.the tuition from within (intuition) becomes material-
ized or disregarded entirely. Each religion expresses this
intuition in different terms, for each has different concep-
tions of the Divine Realities, yet the outer expression is not
the true religion, but its inner meaning is. All awakened
Souls feel the inner tuition and recognize that it comes from
some mysterious source, yet words are so inadequate that
among all peoples religion has to be expressed in parable, al-
legory, myth and marvelous tales. And each thinks its own
expression the only true interpretation of the Realities, hence
condemns all others who use different expressions, ceremo-
nies, symbols and allegories.
Thus religion has grown more and more sectarian and
more and more mental, and the Soul-language has been more
and more ignored. Even those who have heard the Inner
Voice and would fain teach mankind in the simplicity of
the Soul-language find that they must use the familiar ex-
pressions. For the Soul must speak to the mind through its
familiar channels to illumine it and enable it to grasp and
understand the true inner meaning or Soul-language. There-
fore, there must be those who are true priests and teachers,
God's messengers to man, who are capable of understanding
the Soul-language and of translating it into the language
of the daily life. For a deeply learned priesthood, corn-
68 The Inner Radiance
pelled to express religion in a way foreordained by man,
with a definite vocabulary and recondite expressions, has
tended to create a great gulf between the affairs of every-
day life and the great inner urge which each Soul is ever
sending forth for Its expression. And because the inner
Soul-language often disagrees with the outer orthodox in-
terpretations set up by man, many try to silence or turn
away from the Inner Voice and refuse to listen to the Soul-
language.
Is it any wonder then that we find the world today facing
the cyclic changes now taldng place with no united com-
mon spiritual unity, no understanding of how to unite its
Soul-powers to adjust itself to outer conditions? If human-
ity will not remove the causes of inharmony, then the Great
Law must sweep away the disturbing factors crc humanity
can enter upon a new and better day. To counteract inhar-
mony and evil man must gain wisdom and brotherly love;
must learn to listen to and use the Soul-language. And if
he finds it not in religion because, like the builders of the
Tower of Babel, he has listened to and followed the many
outer voices and silenced the Voice within, then the tower of
his mighty civilization must remain incomplete or perhaps
fall and its builders be scattered.
The call of the Christ forever is, "Suffer the little chil-
dren to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is
the kingdom of God." By "little children" was not meant
those young in years, but those young in spirit, teachable,
ready to listen to and obey the Voice of the Christ within.
Some Souls may be so oppressed by worldly conditions or
business affairs that they have little time for study, and hay-
big been taught that only the learned can interpret religion
or the Soul-language, they feel that they must accept what
is given them by the authorities, even though the Inner Voice
is always asking questions which theiç authorities cannot an-
swer. It is all such who like little children are bidden to
The Soul-Language 69
"Come unto me." And they are glad to follow the Christ
when the truth is given them in the Soul-language whkh
they can understand.
The little child is the type of simple trust in the Father;
trust in the knowledge that the Inner Man is made in the
Image of God. And even though the manifestation of that
Image be today but as a little child, yet if brought forth in
the midst -of the teachers and eldersthe mental faculties
and orthodox outer conceptionsit will confound them with
its wisdom and the simplicity of the Soul-language. The
little child also symbolizes the new-born, yet rapidly grow-
ing, realization that in the midst of all the confusion of the
outer world there is this Image of God, and all who listen
to its Soul-language "shall not perish, but have everlasting
life."
Be not disturbed, therefore, though the Earth shakes;
though empires crumble and civilization fails. The Lord
Christ has sent forth His call that He may gather all His
children who will, into the nest of His love and there shelter
them under the wings of His protecting care. No cataclysm
is too great if it destroys the tower of Man's pride and self-
sufficiency and opens his ears to the Soul-language of the
Christ and brings Him to the recognition of humanity. Al-
ready the angels' song is thrilling through the world today.
"Behold! He is risen I"
"0 King of Kings, above all earthly powers!
Help us Thy children in these our darkest hours.
Thy radliant Light, Thy mighty Love, now showers down.
Rich be the hearts this Love shall bless and çwwu.
No longer in a manger laid
Now in transcendent glory He
The debt of sin bath paid.
Down from high heaven the gladsome chorus rings.
To waiting hearts its joyous promise brings.
70 The Inner Radiance
Hark! Hark! Beloved, hear the heavenly songs I
To Him the blithesome joy of this New Age belongs.
Glad at His feet, behold all offerings laid:
Offerings of Love, of service, of sin's redemption paid."
Harriette Augusta Curtiss.
CH&PmR IX
TRANSM IGRATION
Pm I. THE DOCtRINE
"According to the Egyptians, 'At the end of 3000 years, some-
times more and sometimes less, after endless transmigrations, all
these atoms (of the mummy) are once more drawn together and are
made to form the new outer clothing or the body of the same monad
(the real soul) which they had already clothed two or three thousand
years before.... Life is ever present in the atom of matter, whether
organic or inorganic; .. . when life-energy is active in the atom, that
atom is organic; when dormant or latent, then the atom is inorganic."
Five Years of Theosoj%Iiy. Blavatsky, S31-534.
"Thou takest away their breath, they die and return to their dust.
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest
the face of the earth."Psalnu, civ, 29-30.
Many of the processes of evolution in Nature are very
slow in their outworking and often cover vast ages, not only
in the laying down of geological strata, but also in the pro-
gressive adaptation and unfoldment of life-forces and forms
to outer conditions. This slowness of evolution is due both
to the density of the materials in which the life-forces must
manifest and to the fineness of the forces and 'vibrations
working upon those materials to fashion them into more
advanced forms of expression.
When left to the slow progress of mass evolution alone,
the process of man's evolution (unfoldment and spiritualiza-
tion) is almost as slow as the laying down of the sedimen-
tary rocks and their subsequent upheaval during vast
geological ages. But we know that ultimately those seem-
ingly unalterable rocks are uplifted out of the darkness of the
ocean depths into the light of day; out of the mud and slime
of the quagmire into the purifying light of the Sun; out of
n
72 The Inner Radianie
the dense and rigid conditions of their materialization into
the region of freedom in the air. Thus what was once the
bed of the ocean may now form mountain peaks which seem
to touch heaven and are crowned with a mantle of eternal
snow: which bear aloft many forms of vegetable life
flowers, shrubs and treesand also many forms of bird and
animal life.
Following the sante Law of Eternal Change and progress,
just so will the forces of spiritual evolution ultimately raise
the mass of mankind up out of the dark waters of ignorance
into the light of understanding; up out of the quagmires of
sin and disease into the sweet fresh air of health and hap-
piness; up out of the dense and hampering conditions of
materialistic thoughts and conceptions into the bright illu-
inination of the Spiritual Sun, and ultimately into the free-
dom of Divine Realization.
Through the light and warmth of the Spiritual Sun, shin-
ing within man as the I Am-consciousness, he will be able
to see and realize the light of Divine Illumination and the
warmth of Divine Love, and realize that he is indeed a Son
of God. So will man be raised up in his spiritual unfold-
ment until he, too, touches the skies of heavenly conscious-
ness and is crowned with the clear white mantle of eternal
purity. Thus will he lift up with him the countless millions
of cells and atoms and other lower forms of life which are
a part of his outer.personality.
This is the picture. This is the hope of mankind. This is
the eternal promise of the Father. This is the Law. But
since the mass evolution of mankind is almost as slow as the
geological evolution of the planet, are we content to wait for
that slow, even if inevitable, process which requires ages of
incarnations and the countless buffetings of karmic condi-
tions for the fashioning and perfecting process? Or shall
we not realize our power here and now consciously to corre-
late with the streams of Divine Life and Eove and Con-
aciousness so freely poured out for us? By such correlation
Transmigra:ion 73
we shall grow as the flower grows, pushing up our tender
sprout of divine re2li,ation above the limiting physical con-
ditions until we put forth the blossom of I Am-conscious-
ness and the fruit of Immortality.
This is ou goal. This is our destiny. It is for us as
atoms of God to transmigrate through all these lower con-
ditions as rapidly as possible, but now willingly and un-
resistingly following the Light of the Spiritual Sun, and
drawn by the Jaw of spritual affinity into the bosom of the
Father to be one with Him here and now forevermore.
The origin and destiny of the Soul, and the reason for
its appearance on Earth has, throughout the ages, been a
theme of vital importance to humanity. But we can have
no satisfying philosophy of life and the Soul unless the
doctrine of reincarnation is one of its fundamental postu-
lates. But many persons refuse to investigate the doctrine
of reincarnation because they have confused it in their minds
with the mistaken exoteric Hindu doctrine of the transmi-
gration of the Soul through the bodies of lower animals.
This doctrine of transmigration, arising through a misunder-
standing of the law of reincarnation and through ignorance
of the details of its processes, has quite naturally given to
the Western world a great disgust for any doctrine even
remotely suggesting that the human Soul incarnates in lower
animals, and so prevents the rational study of reincarnation.1
As a matter of fact, transmigration is quite distinct from
reincarnation, for reincarnation refers to the repeated incar-
nations of the same immortal spiritual entity or Soul, while
transmigration refers only to what becomes of the atoms of
the various bodies occupied by the Soul after they are thrown
off from the body or after the Soul has left them entirely
through the gate of death.
Transmigration into lower animals could not apply to the
human Soulthe three higher principles Atma, Buddhi,
iPor a general itudy of di. eubject a.. Rdcora.Si.., by Walker, alao
Rsùsc.rneti.a. by l"'
F
74 The Inner Radiance
Manas 2as there is no animal form lower than the human
which could contain a human Soul; no form which has the
organs, centers and functions necessary for the incarnation
and expression of a human Soul. And since the lesser can
never contain the greater, no animal form less developed than
or below the human in evolution could possibly contain a
human Soul. So we may dismiss such a doctrine from our
minds as basically and scientifically unsound. How, then, did
such a misconception arise and become a doctrine of large,
but ignorant, masses of people?
The confusion probably began, firstly, by a misinterpreta-
tion of a certain passage in the Laws of Mann (Sec. xii, 54-
5) which states that "a Brahman-killer enters the body of a
dog, bear, ass, camel, goat, sheep, bird," etc., and secondly,
to a lack of understanding of two very simple facts. The
Brahinins have applied this passage to themselves and, by a
play on words, have allowed their followers to assume that
the passage alluded to those who killed a member of the
Brabmin caste. But the word used is not Brahmin-killer,
but a Brabman-killer. The word Brahmin refers to a mem-
ber of the Brahmin caste, while the word Brahman, in this
connection, refers to man's seventh or spiritual principle, the
immortal Monad. Therefore, "he who kills or extinguishes
in himself the light of Parabrahm, i.e., severs his personal
Ego from the Atman (or seventh principle) . . . becomes
a 'Brahman-killer.' "S
In other words, instead of aiding the union of the per-
sonal consciousness and the lower principles with the Higher
Self or Father-in-Heaventhrough prayer, spiritual aspira-
tion and a virtuous lifeit is possible to cut the lower
personality off from contact with the Higher Self and thus
condemn every atom of his lower principles to disintegrate
and become attracted toby the magnetic affinity created by
his lower passionsand assimilated by the bodies of cor-
3See The K.y to the U,Åtwse. Curtis., 2S5.
3Pw, Ye.,. of Thro:.phy. BIavatak. 537.
Transmigration 75
responding lower animals. But it is not the Soul or its
emanations that are thus drawn into animal bodies, only the
atoms of man's lower bodies and principles.
The first of the two simple facts referred to above is that
man tends to become and look like that of which he thinks
most persistently. If he is a glutton and thinks chiefly of
food and how much of it he can gorge and enjoy, such
thoughts imprint themselves upon him and he grows to look
bestial and even like a hog, both in form and feature. If
his major trait is cunning he may take on a fox-like look;
if avaricious or miserly he may have the appearance of an
eagle or a vulture, etc. We are all familiar with such types
of humanity.
But more important still in forming the misconception as
to transmigration is the second fact that on passing out of
incarnation cur astral bodies take on still more definitely the
impress of our characteristic thought-forms. Therefore,
after death, in extreme cases, the hog-like man may actually
assume a still more hog-like appearance than while on Earth;
the cunning man that of the fox; the avaricious that of a
vulture, etc. Thus, one who was sufficiently clairvoyant to
see such animal-like astral forms might easily conclude, un-
less properly trained, that such persons had become or would
inhabit corresponding animals in their next incarnation,
which of course is not possible, as we have seen above.
A third fact leading to the confusion is that the atoms of
man's bodies, once they are releasedeither gradually dur-
ing life or rapidly after deathand allowed to disintegrate
by the withdrawal of the cohesive force of the animating
Soul, do return to the dust from whence they came and are
thus taken up and built into various forms of plant and
animal life and thus do transmigrate through many different
nonhuman forms.
Among the Egyptians it was taught that a mummy, in
spite of all the chemicals used in its preparation, neverthe-
less goes on throwing off invisible atomsaltho not as
76 The Inner Radiance
rapidly as when the corpse is allowed to disintegrate nor-
mallyand that these atoms enter every form of vegetable
and animal life by which they may be taken up according to
their affinity. The Egyptians taught that this process went
on for approximately three thousand years more or less, at
the end of which period the atoms, having transmigrated
through innumerable substances and forms, were once more
drawn together magnetically to help make up a body for the
incarnation of the same Soul which they dothed in the previ-
ous incarnation. A corruption of this doctrine was one of
the reasons why the Egyptians mummified their dead, as
they were allowed to believe that the Soul would return to
animate the same body it had left at death, which of course
was not possible.
This form of reincarnation was the belief of the masses,
the exoteric doctrine for these too ignorant to understand
the philosophy of the more subtile changes. But it was not
the esoteric doctrine held by the Priests of Isis, the true
Initiates, whose real doctrines were even more veiled from
the ignorant masses than those of the Chaldeans. In fact,
there were three doctrines or sets of teaching in vogue at
that time, i.e., that of the Initiates, that of the priests of the
outer temple and that of the ignorant masses who were al-
lowed to worship certain animals and birds as divine, much
as the members of certain Christian sects today are allowed
to worship the cross, saints' pictures, bones, relics, etc., all
of which tends to arouse either disgust or pity in the minds
of the more enlightened.
But today the researches of science are enabling anyone of
ordinary intelligence to understand the truth hack of the
vulgar superstitions of the ignorant masses. We now know
that no matter, force or consciousness that has ever existed
can cease to exist. Things which seem to have been de-
stroyed only change their form, their essential constituents
remaining and reappearing under other forms. A log of
wood when burned disappears as a form, but every atom
Tranimigration 77
can be traced, weighed, measured and chemically accounted
for in the water vapor, carbon dioxide and other gases and
volatile oils thrown off and in the ashes which result from
the burning. And all these atoms can be taken up by and
built into other forms of life such as grass, vegetation, trees,
etc., and reappear as other logs, animal bodies, etc. "E'en
wasted smoke remains not traceless."
In fact, this scientific law of the indestructibility of mat-
ter, force and consciousness has always been one of the
basic laws of occult philosophy long before it was confirmed
by science. Our planet itself is composed of the atoms and
forces which once composed the previous chain of globes
which preceded the formation of the Earth-chain, namely,
the Moon-chain,4 while our bodies now contain particles and
forces which we failed to spiritualize and redeem while on
the Moon-chain, as well as those used by us in former in-
carnations on this planet.
The Egyptian doctrine, therefore, when properly under-
stood, agrees both with the most recent experiments in the
radio-activity of matter and with occult philosophy. It also
agrees with the account of creation in our own Bible. For
if we properly understand that account' we will find it
quite as esoteric as the Egyptian teachings and quite as
thoroughly misunderstood by the ignorant mass of Chris-
tians as were the teachings of the Priests of Isis by the
ignorant mass in their day.
The Fundamentalists would have us believe that, because
the incarnation of the Spiritual Man in the body of flesh
took place at the time God is described as breathing into the
animal body the breath of life, there was no such thing as
evolution as applied to man. This shows how little they
understand their own Bible, for it specifically points out that
there were five great "days" or vast ages of creation and
evolution preceding the creation of man, during which the
'For dctaIs see Ti.. Vow. of h4, Curtis.. Chapter XV.
Sce Tb. Trust. Aboul ZVO.SW,. mud (k thbir, Curtis., 102-3.
78 The Inner Radiance
successive lower forms were evolvedand in the exact order
claimed by sciencebefore man appeared at all.
In Genesis i, 9, "God said, Let the waters . . . be gath-
ered together . . and let the dry land appear." Then
"God said, (i, 11,) Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb
yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind
and God said, (i, 24,) Let the earth bring forth the
living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping thing, and
the beast of the earth after his kind," etc. And only in the
sixth day of planetary evolution are we told that "God
formed (animal) man out of the dust of the ground." As a
matter of fact, it required countless ages for the atoms of
matter to be built up into more and more complex forms
and associated with higher and higher manifestations of life,
as they passed upward through the successive kingdoms, crc
they were fit to be associated with the Spiritual Man by be-
ing incorporated in the body in which he was to incarnate.
For until they were so prepared, by the development of their
successive spirillae, He could not utilize them in His body.
Altho animals are composed of the same chemical ele-
ments as are the rocks and minerals they cannot live on
rocks and minerals or utilize them directlywith certain ex-
ceptions such as salt, etc.,until those materials have been
built up into the colloid forms of a lower kingdom, the vege-
table, and thus be prepared for their nourishment. No more
could the Spiritual Man use the atoms with the lower rates
of vibration until they had passed through countless lower
forms and thus been prepared for His assimilation and use.
While the animals are also animated by the universal One
Life-force like man, they do not have the capacity of assimi-
lating the higher octaves of spiritual vibrations, for their
atoms are many octaves of vibration below those which ani-
mate man, unless man deliberately lowers his vibrations to
those of the animal kingdom by his low desires, thoughts
and acts.
Thus Genesis, by confirming both modern science and
Transmigration 79
occult philosophy, proves itself to be one of the most esoteric
and occult books ever given to man. In fact, it is but a
condensed story of the gathering together of the materials
of the former chain of globes and their bombardment by
the life-atoms until the life-force evolved from those ma-
terials first the simple and then the more and more advanced
forms, until finally there were evolved human forms or
"coats of skin" into which it was possible for the Spiritual
Man of Genesis i, 27, to incarnate here on Earth. When
the Lord God breathed the breath of life into the nostrils of
this animal man he then became "a living Soul," because
only then had the Spiritual Man incarnated in him. It is
this animal body, and not the immortal Soul, that is referred
to in the words: "Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou
return."
It is through incarnation in such evolved human bodies
and not in the lower animalscomposed of the atoms and
forces we had not finished spiritualizing either on the Moon-
chain or on this Earth that we must reassume and finally
complete that process until, through the unfolding and use
of greater spiritual powers, we ultimately build up a com-
pletely spiritualized body in which we can dwell on any
plane without having to die and leave the body behind as
dust.
The Egyptian doctrine of the life-atoms emanating from a
mummy for three thousand years, therefore, has a certain
scientific basis, for we know that even certain mineralsthe
radium grouprequire nearly three thousand years of con-
tinuous emanation before they lose more than half their
weight, approximately the same time given by the Egyptians
as elapsing between incarnations.
According to the laws of chemical affinity certain atoms
combine only with atoms with which they have more or less
affinity. If a substance contains atoms held loosely within
it by slight affinity and other atoms having greater affinity
IFor detail. i.e TA. V.1cc of Isis, Curdi., Cbapter XV.
80 The Inner Radiance
are brought near, the loosely held atoms will leave the first
substance and rush to the one with the greater affinity.
Often this process is so rapid and powerful as to cause dis-
integration of what are apparently the most solid substances,
as witnessed in the action of acids upon steel or granite or
the instant disintegrations of gunpowders which cause ex-
plosions. And if chemical affinity is sufficient to produce
these tremendous results with the hardest substances, surely
magnetic and spiritual affinity are amply sufficient to draw
together the atoms which are strongly affinitized to a cer-
tain Soul. For it is the occult doctrine that as the Soul
descends into incarnation it awakens the permanent T
on each plane, and through this gradually draws to itself
many of the atoms which belonged to it in past lives. This
process is not completed at once, but goes on throughout
each life as former atoms are relased from other forms and
made available for us.
(To be concluded)
TYor details see The Kej of Dest;sy. Curtu. 17.
CHAPTER X
TRANSM IÓRATION
Påxr II. Tu AtoMs
"Occultism teaches that the life-atoms of our Life-Principle
(prana) are never entirely lost when a man dies. That the atoms
best impregnated with the Life-Principlean independent, eternal
conscious factorare partially transmitted from father to son by
heredity, and are partially drawn once more together and become the
animating principle of the new body in every new incarnation....
As the individual Soul is ever the same, so are the atoms of the lower
principles (the body, its astral, or life-double, etc.), drawn as they
arc by affinity and karmic law always to the same individuality in a
series of various bodies."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, u, 709.
"And the Lord God formed (evolved the body of) man out of the
dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of (sçiir-
Itual) life (the Spiritual Man); and man became a living soul.'
Genesis, ii, 7.
During the latter part of the last century, in the days of
gross materialism in science, the definition of the atom was
"the smallest particle of matter that could exist alone; the
ultimate indivisible particle of matter." But from the
astounding discoveries of this century concerning radio-
activity we now know that the atom is not indivisible; in-
deed, that the atom is not matter at all as we are accustomed
to view it. The atom is now defined as "a center of force,
a phase of electrical phenomena, a center of energy, active
through its own internal makeup, and giving off energy, or
heat, or radiation."1 This atom or "center of force" is
made up of a central positively-charged nucleus, called a
proton, surrounded by a duster of negatively-charged cor-
puscles called electrons and neutrons, which revolve around
ISS.,44,i Dicijowy.
81
82 The Inner Radiance
the nucleus in orbits corresponding relatively to the orbits
of the planets about the Sun of our solar system, proving
that the same Grand Plan of Manifestation exists from
cosmos to atom.
These combinations of electrons or atomic dusters impress
our senses with the various characteristics of matter accord-
ing to the arrangement of the various electrons in the
duster. And just as the arrangement or aspects of the
planets at the time of birth indicate the main characteristics
which the incarnating Soul must manifest or encounter, so,
if we could view the predominating arrangement of the elec-
trons in the atoms of our bodies and correlate them with the
planetary aspects, then would astrology be the exact science
it was of old, instead of the art it is today.
Like the planets of our solar system, the atoms have their
cycle of activity or ,nanvantaras and their cycles of disin-
tegration and inactivity or pra!ayas. As each planet begins
its period of manifestation, the same old atoms of which it
was composed during its previous nianvantaras or cycles of
objective manifestation, are once more attracted around its
nucleus, first as fire-mist, then as astral substance and then
as the mineral kingdom or "dust of the ground." Thus is
the physical planet as we know it materialized out of its in-
visible laya-center. As the various forms of life appear, the
atoms of the mineral kingdom are built into these forms,
first transmigrating into the vegetable kingdom, then into
the animal and finally are so advanced that they can be used
to make up the body of man.
Just as the nucleus of each atom exercises a selective
action and attracts to itself only such electrons as are affini-
tized to it, so does each cell of the body and each form of
life attract to itselfthrough affinitythose atoms in its en-
vironment which will best contribute to the manifestation of
that particular form. The body-cell selects the particular
substances it needs from the food given it; the plant selects
from the mineral kingdomalso from the air and water-
Transmigration 83
the particular atoms needed by its species; the animal selects
the particular plants or animals best suited for its food, and
man selects from all the kingdoms as foodthrough the
selective action of taste and appetitethat which contains
the atoms necessary for his particular stage of unfoldment.
If man was careful to follow the guidance of the subcon-
scious mind of his animal-soul as to food, and eat it properly
masticate it thoroughly in reasonable amountsand did
not insist that everyone else should follow his tastes,
idiosyncrasies and theories, there would be no such thing as
indigestion and few intestinal diseases
Just as the positive, radio-active nucleus nf the atom is
constantly bombarding and impressing upon the electrons
which make up its cluster or body the characteristics of its
own emanations, just so does the radio-active nucleus of life-
force or "soul" in each form of lifeVegetable, animal and
humanimpress its characteristics and stage of evolution
upon all the atoms composing its body, thus raising those
atoms to its vibratory rate and stage of evolution. The
atoms, therefore, advance in evolution according to the stage
of evolution of the forms of which they are a part. Also,
advanced atoms transmigrating into lower forms hi.p to
promote the evolution of those forms. Thus does the Law
of Compensation adjust and compensate for the sacrifice of
one form of life to another.'
Through the life-force's gradually raising the vibratory
rate of the atoms in the higher forms, it becomes possible for
still higher and finer and more intelligent forms to be built
up and evolvesuch as the dog, horse, elephant, etc.,
capable and worthy of associating with man. Finally, atoms
are evolved which are so impressed with the vibrations of
intelligence of the highest forms through which they have
transmigrated that they are fit to be used in building up a
brain for man which is capable of responding to the vibra-
tions of the higher mental worldeven as the animals re-
See "Tb. Lw of Sacrifice," The Mw.gs of Aqii.n. Curtiu, 254.
84 The Inner Radiance
spond to the lowerand ultimately to spiritual aspirations
and longings for something more than the material world
can supply. Only when such a form was evolved through
the ages could the Spiritual Being which is the Real Self,
created in the image of God,' descend from the higher
worlds and incarnate in it. Again we see how impossible it
would be for the human Soul to incarnate in any animal
form lower than man. It is through this human body and
not that of a lower animal that the Soul must continue the
unfolding of its spiritual qualities and powers in the world
of matter, and through it work out the unadjusted Karma
generated during previous incarnations on this and other
planets.
The study of reincarnation teaches us that not all Souls
born here on Earth began their evolution in matter on this
planet: only those who emanated from the Planetary Ruler
of the Earth. It is only these latter who are properly called
Earth-children.4 These are less unfolded spiritually because
they have had less experience in material conditions on this
or other planets, hence are largely concerned with the lower
and more material interests in life. These make up the ma-
jority of mankind. But vast numbers of Souls also caine
from the Moon-chain and lesser numbers came from other
planets to learn the lessons õf Earth.
After having learned many and deep lessons during the
period of rest (pralaya) between planets, the Egos from
the Moon-chain incarnated on this new planet, Earth, to con-
tinue the mastery of the problems and forces left uncon-
quered on the previous planet, and also to teach and help
onward those less advanced than themselves. Thus every-
where do we see continual unfoldment, evolution and ad-
vance. Even the globe itself belongs to a higher octave
than the globes of the previous Moon-chain.
Naturally there are miliions of atoms upon which each
'See The Tndk About Evoiut(oii au,d Ike Bible, Curuu, Chapter XIX.
4See Cousuug Would CMu.:, Cuitlu, 60-I.
Transmigration 85
Soul has placed the radio-active imprint of its stage of un-
foldment. In the early days of mankind, when the animal
form was untrained and incapable of responding consciously
to the indwelling Soul, the animal selfishness, passions and
desires predomihated and impressed their vibrations upon
the atoms of the body. As these atoms were thrown off they
were built into the lower kingdoms and thus carried with
them the vibrations of cruelty, enmity, impurity and an-
tagonism with which the largely-animal man had impressed
them. Need we be surprised, therefore, to find that, instead
of all the lower forms of life co-operating with man in peace
and harmony, there are many forms in each lcingdom-
poisonous minerals and gases, pathogenic bacteria, poisonous
plants, blights and fungi, insects and animals, etc.,which
are antagonistic to man? As we have said elsewhere:
"The curse which God is represented as placing on the
lower kingdoms when man was turned out of Eden was in
reality a prophecy of the Karma which man must continue
to reap from the lower kingdoms because of the forces he
places upon them, his resulting suffering and death slowly
bringing about an awakening to his true heritage, se, his
power as Priest to bless all kingdoms. And verily just as
the curse has operated and still operates today, so shall the
blessing, until some day man shall find himself King and
Ruler over all the kingdoms of the Earth." s Since by man
came evil, sin, sickness and death into the world, even so by
man must come the redemption of the Earth from all such
disintegrating and antagonistic forces. Hence, the sooner
man begins to learn this mighty lesson of personal responsi-
bility for the conditions of his life and environment, the
sooner will both humanity and the lower kingdoms attain
their true place in the Divine Plan.
The millions of atoms upon which the Soul has placed the
imprint of its perfections and imperfections must be taken
up again and again and be built into its new bodies during
STAr Xey S. Ike Uisw.rse. Curtis., 177.
86 The Inner Radiance
many incarnations, each time taking them at least one step
upward as it advances through experiencing the Karma and
conquering the conditions encountered, on the path of spirit-
ualization. For as man advances and radiates higher forces,
he raises the vibratory rate of the atoms which he embodies.
If the qualities which the Soul is unfolding at a particular
time attract atoms whose transinigrations have been largely
through forms in the vegetable kingdom, such atoms natu-
rally bring a preponderant essence of that kingdom, and such
a person would naturally crave a largely vegetarian diet. If
one's evolution needs and attracts atoms whose transmigra-
tions have been largely through animal forms they would
bring the vibrations of that kingdom, nd such an one would
naturally desire and need the vibrations of animal food,
milk, butter, cheese, eggs, etc., which often bring the animal
vibrations almost as much as meat. But most of us are
unfolding more than one important quality and have many
atoms from all kingdoms, hence need, enjoy and thrive best
upon a mixed diet. Hence, there are no two persons exactly
alike or who continuously need exactly the same food com-
binations.
When there is any great change, either gradual or rapid,
in the character of our unfoldment or in large numbers of
our atoms, our desire for certain foods changes, often quite
suddenly. In such cases the desire of the animal-soul (sub-
conscious mind) for a change of food should be followed,
but controlled by reason. But to force one's self to subsist
on a particular diet that is not appetizing or satisfying, just
because someone tells us it will advance us spiritually, is
only postponing our taking in the transmigrating atoms for
which we are responsible and to which we are attracted by
our natural appetites and which are waiting to be redeemed
and spiritualized by us; for some time later on in our evolu-
tion we will have to go back and take up those atoms, per-
haps at a time when it will be very much more hampering
to do so than now at their normal time for such transmuta-
Transmigration 87
tion. One thing we should keep clearly in mind. Spirit-
uality does not come from the stomach! It comes from the
heart. Our food should be that which satisfies our taste
and appetite and which makes our bodies positive and full
of energy and efficiency and our spirits happy. Physical
food feeds the physical body, not the Soul.
If our diet leaves us pale, anæmic, negative, irritable,
"cranky" toward others and lacking in energy and positive
magnetism, then obviously it is not the right diet for us, no
matter what the theories of other people. But in any case
we should not let our food occupy too great a part of our
attention or thoughts, but keep it in its proper place as a
mere detail of our physical supply. In no case should we
allow.thoughts about food or the vibrations brought to us
from either vegetable or animal kingdom to dominate us,
but should place upon every atom we take in the key-note
or impress of our present stage of spiritual unfoldment and
make all subservient to our uses and welfare.
Just as the Sun, as the positive nucleus of our solar
system, attracts the planets necessary for the manifesta-
tion of its system and holds them under the radio-active
bombardment of its rays, and just as the protonic nucleus
of the atom attracts the electrons necessary for the mani-
festation of its duster and holds them under the bombard-
ment of its radio-activity, so does the Soul, as the positive
nudeus of man, attract the atoms necessary for the mani-
festation of its body and hold them under the bombardment
of the refining and spiritualizing influence of its spritual
radio-activity. As we have said elsewhere: "No entity can
attain Mastery and final liberation until all the atoms for
whose expression he is responsible have been redeemed.
This includes all the atoms thrown off from all his various
bodies during all his incarnations, as well as all the entities
Sm. whole pve&eIu of diet Ii an j Skalt Not Kili." The V.we
if ins Curda., 393.
88 The Inner Radiance
he has created either with his physical creative force or by
the creative power of thought."7
The fact that we draw to ourselves a vast number of
atoms which we have used in past lives is one of the reasons
but only one of severalwhy we in this life look and act
so much as we did in the last life. This resemblance is so
great that in most cases if our friends could see a picture
of us in our last incarnation they would instantly recognize
it as our picture or at least enough like us to be readily
taken for a brother or sister. This also helps us to under-
stand why we bring over so many strong inborn traits,
peculiarities, aversions and affinities, not xhibited by the
other children of the same family and therefore not merely
inherited from our parents, and otherwise inexplicable.
We bring over so many influences from the past that it
is no wonder that many persons claim to have been persons
of importance in the last life. But these claims can readily
be verified or disproved by a careful comparison of the
pictures, and especially of the distinguishing traits of char-
acter, of the great personage claimed with those of the
claimant. While the circumstances of the present life may
be entirely dissimilar, the stage of Soul development, or the
lack of it, and the most prominent traits of character, to-
gether with the capacity and powers, of the past life will
show dearly in this life, no matter what the environment.
Abraham Lincoln was born into an environment in which
all outward aids were denied him, but he demonstrated his
greatness of Soul in spite of his hampering environment.
Unless the innate traits do show clearly and confirm the
claim made, the claimant is surely mistaken, even if told it
by someone in the astral.
For instance, the atoms which belonged to our brain in
the past and which may again be built into our brain in this
life, aitho modified by tli physical heredity of the family
-
I L.st.r, fres. *6. Tesc6.r Curtis, 1. 76-7.
ISes "Memories of Past Live,." rha Voice .f isis,, CuitI.., 269.
Transmigra:ion 89
in which we now incarnate, would nevertheless enable us to
exhibit mental qualities and powers similar to those in the
past. A reincarnated Caesar would not exhibit the traits of
a Nero, and vice versa. The reputed reincarnation of a
Pharaoh (Akhenaten) in the person of a young English
engineer call be proved, not by spirit messages or by auto-
matic writing produced by him while under the control of
some disembodied entity, but by carefully comparing the
traits, habits and capacities of the two.
The brain is but the instrument of the mind, hence can
be played upon by the lower mind and made to cater to the
passions and appetites of the animal-soul, or it can be made
to respond to the guidance of the Higher Mind, the mind of
the Spiritual Self or Soul. If we refuse to permit our
brains to be oupied exclusively with the affairs of the
lower mind, and refuse to build into them only the atoms
cast off from our former brains, then the Higher Mind will
have a chance to build in new and higher atoms in addition
to those from the past; new atoms capable of responding
to more spiritual vibrations. This will enable us to grasp
more and more spiritual ideas, until ultimately we can con-
sciously respond to the overshadowing Higher or Spiritual
Mind, and receive the guidance and outpouring of the
spiritual ideas with which that mind constantly bombards us
in an effort to inspire and awaken in us some conception
of the God-consciousness, and also an eagerness to strive
for its realization and attaimnent. For the emanations from
the higher mental and spiritual worlds, as well as those of
the physical and astral worlds, are continuously bombard-
ing us. But they can be assimilated and built in only to the
extent that we prepare the soil by spiritualizing our physical
atoms and purifying our minds until we can tune in to their
octave of vibration and affinitize with them. For man, un-
like the lower animals, has free-will to select that to which
S.. Tb, Occ,Ji RrÅ,w. Aizgvd, 1926.
C.
90 The Inner Radiance
he will respond, instead of responding automatically or
reflexly to everything that contacts him.
While intensive study of higher things enables us to at-
tract to us the most highly evolved atoms of our past which
are in our environment, and build in new atoms from this
and the higher worlds, nevertheless it is only the assimilation
of atoms and forces from the spiritual outpouring of the
Christ that is the greatest factor in our spiritual advance.
To advance harmoniously, body, mind and Soul, we must
continually build in the highest atoms we can draw to us
from each world. Just as the physical atoms of the Earth
remained in f'ralaya and dormant in the mineral kingdom
until lifted up by the cohesive power of the life-force and
built into the higher forms of lifefrom vegetable up to
manso the spiritual atoms and centers in man remain
dormant until awakened and animated by the bombarding
currents of the spiritual life-force of the Christ, who thus
literally stands at the door of our hearts and knocks.
Man's ability first to sense his great possibilities, then
desire their attainment, and then consciously work toward
it, enables him to transmute the atoms he builds in from
former lives and from the lower kingdoms and to dominate
themno matter what their transmigrations have been
and make them subservient- to the key-note of the higher
ideals which he has set for his life's attainment.
Just as the physical Sun will ultimately rejuvenate and
transmute devastated areas into unsefulness and beauty, so
will the Spiritual Sun ultimately transmute the evil and
devastating vibrations and experiences in us into usefulness
and beauty. This process of continuous transmutation, if
perservered in, makes it possible for man's body to become
so purified and spiritualized as literally to be a temple of the
Living God through which he can manifest his Real or
Higher Self as the Lord from Heaven and rule himself and
all the kingdoms of the Earth.
Since man has the power to select and attract finer and
Tranimigration 91
more spiritualized atoms and forces from the higher worlds,
and also of transmuting the less evolved atoms he builds in
through Karma and otherwise, he is in very truth the Lord
of the Earth, as,indicated in Genesis, ii: 15. For not only
through scientific plant and animal breeding, but also through
broadcasting into the lower kingdoms of the atoms he has
transmuted, and their countless transmigrations through the
various forms, he can so uplift and improve the lower king-
doms as literally to remodel the Earth and the products
thereof and redeem it from the curse of inharmony and
disease which his previous misuse of its substance and forces
placed upon it.
This is a great duty which he must accomplish ere his
"cycle of necessity" in Earth conditions is completed and he
is free to progress to higher worlds. But this he will accom-
plish only as he advances and spiritualizes himself through
the radio-activity of the Cosmic Christ-force. Often after
death those who have wantonly killed birds and animals for
mere sport and not from necessity or for some constructive
end, learn the lesson of cruelty and in the next incarnation
are born with an innate revolt against all unnecessary suffer-
ing and become supporters of, if not enthusiastic workers
for, the prevention of cruelty to animals. For ultimately,
just as God looked upon everything that He had made and
pronounced it very good, so must man be able tp do likewise,
ere the Earth can be redeemed from man's curse and again
become the Eden of peace and harmony it was when given
unto man to dress and to keep.
How true and grand in its comprehensiveness do we find
the simple language of the Bible! The more we unfold and
grow in comprehension, and the more we understand the
details of the Grand Plan of the universe, as set forth in the
cosmic philosophy of Christian Mysticism, the more do we
admire and wonder at the simple language which includes
so much in so few words! Most of us are but children in
spiritual things and as well might we criticize and take cx-
92 The Inner Radiance
ception to the A B C's and the multiplication table as to
condemn the grand allegories of the Bible or the older re.
ligions and the philosophy of peoples who have gone more
deeply into the philosophy of life. Since there are many
types of mind, many forms of presentation are necessary to
explain to all types the one fundamental truth that man him-
self is responsible for the conditions which surround him
here on Earth, and that because of this responsibility, by
him must all be redeemed, i.e., through his correlation with
and radiation of the Cosmic Christ-force.
We are so used to thinking of our spiritual life and its
heavenly reward as pertaining to some far off future, that
we are apt to overlook one of the most vital of truths, "As
a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." This influence of
thought is not confined to the Spiritual Man or even to the
mind, but reacts upon the body as well. Nor are the spiritual
virtues all that we incarnated to unfold and manifest. If we
look from a new angle of vision at the injunction, "Seek
ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all
these things shall be added unto you," we will see that in-
stead of crying out like children for some Divine Being to
save us from the results of our mistakes and sins and bring
about the conditions we desire, we must realize that by our
thoughts and actions and by the radio-active effect of our
lives, we must perfect and spiritualize the streams of atoms
as they transmigrate through our bodies. Then as they fly
away and bombard all things in our environment and are
built into the lower kingdoms, according to the infallible
law that man must reap whatsoever he sows, they will send
back to us the harmonious co-operation and the spiritual
forces with which we have impregnated them. This is the
problem of redemption, as we explain in the next chapter.
"By redeeming our own body, that much of the Earth is
uplifted and spiritualized. And that is the only way the
Earth can be redeemed; for every vibration of spiritual force
to which the human monad responds, sends an answering
Transmigration 93
wave of force through the whole cosmos. Thus, by man
and through man, shall the Earth be redeemed."
"When it is once grasped that the working out of a per-
sonal salvation is the only way really to help the world, the
man who neglects it is a retarder of the public good'1
IOL$t.,.g fr.i. SAy Tg.chr I, 209-10, 44.
U Ibijd.
94
CHAPTER XI
COSMIC CAUSES OF WORLD CONDI-
TIONS AND THE REMEDY1
PART I. PLANETARY AND KARUIC FACTORS
Mr. Chairman, Members of the Orlando Chamber of
Commerce, and Friends:
For the first time in our twenty-four years on the lecture
platform we ask permission to read our address. This is
due to the fact that we propose to make certain concrete sug-
gestions and prophecies, some of which may be of an un-
usual and startling character. Under such conditions we
naturally wish our carefully chosen wording to express ex-
actly what we mean, so that we will not be misunderstood
and misquoted in a sensational way, as has already been
done by certain newspapers.
The fact that the present world conditions of financial de-
pression, unemployment, crop failures, floods, famines, and
political unrest affect practically all countries and peoples,
shows that the causative factors lie far below the surface
appearances. Some writers have attributed present condi-
tions to "the breaking down of the foundation of things
upon which civilization has been built." Even if that were
true, why should those foundations crumble just at this par-
ticular time after having withstood the varying conditions
IAn sddrcsi by Dr. F. Homer Curtis. of Washinitoi. D. C. President of
TA, LJ,s,rersml Kdigwuss Foiu.4.Sioi, I.e. and Co-founder of 'Ar Order of
Ckr.*i.. MyjIe:. delivered before tile Orlando (Fin.) CIiunbe of Commerce
on March 29. 1932 sod broadcast over atatmn WDBO of the lumbia netS
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 95
of the past two thousand years? Others see the depression
as the result of the literature given to the world by Nietzsche
and his followers. But even that has little effect outside of
Germany. Others hold that the sudden liberation of the
lower passions of selfishness, greed, self-indulgence and lust
for power and pleasure following the World War has been
the causative factor. While all these things may be factors
in present conditions, they are really only symptoms rather
than causes, and they are relatively limited and do not cover
the facts. Hen they are no adequate explanation for why
the tribulations now being suffered by all mankind should
come just at this time. Therefore, we mystics claim that
the causes must be sought in a far wider field of causation,
namely, cosmic causes which naturally affect all mankind in
varying degrees.
Now a mystic is generally supposed to be a very imprac-
tical person who, if not exactly mentally unbalanced, is at
least a dreamer and a visionary. In view of the prevalence
of this misconception we are greatly pleased to see so many
men of large business interests present with us today. Their
presence here shows that they belong to that broadminded
class of business men whose advanced thinking along other
than strictly business lines is responsible for the great change
in the attitude which practical men of affairs are now taking
toward such intangible factors as psychology, business
morals, good-will, co-operation and mutual helpfulness which
are now recognized as important factors in the success of
modern business enterprises.
The mystic has been considered impractical because in the
past he has devoted himself largely to religious ideals and
to visions in the higher realms of manifestation and to the
realization of states of consciousness far above the physical.
And to that extent he does seem to be impractical. But we
only need to remind you of some of the great dreamers and
visionariesfrom Joseph in Egypt and Jesus of Nazareth,
down through the ages to Joan of Arc, Martin Luther, John
96 The Inner Radiance
Wesley, and Abraham Lincoln, to mention but a few whose
"impractical" visions have changed the course of
history and revolutionized human societyfor you to real-
ize the role that the mystic has played in the practical af-
fairs of the world.
This astonishing result is due to the fact that a mystic is
one who is not content to accept surface appearances, but
sees behind the outer phenomena of physical manifestation
the unseen and mystical causes which produce them: the
realities which exist in the unseen. All life is a mystery:
the mystery of causation and manifestation. For all mom-
festasion comes from the unseen. Science has proved that
there is no life, consciousness, creative power or ability to
plan, design, originate and execute in matter itself. Matter
is mçrely the substance with which unseen forces and un-
seen intelligences use to build up vehicles of manifestation.
Hence science has abandoned the doctrine of materialism of
the nineteenth century for the doctrine of dynamism. Yet
seeds germinate: forms appear from the unseen, apparently
self-generated, flourish for a limited cycle, then disintegrate
and disappear, leaving behind as their only trace the ash or
material particles of which their forms were built up,a
mystery indeed; a mystery of causation, plan, purpose, de-
sign, manifestation, and result
We therefore see that all forms, including the physical
body of man, are but outer shells or instruments through
which some unseen and mystic cause, "the thing in itself,"
manifests in the physical world. Everywhere we see the
inner mystical causes moulding the outer manifestations.
Ideals govern ideas. Ideas mould thoughts, and thoughts
find expression in words and actions.
Everything in the universe finds expression in rhythmic
waves of cyclic expression: periods of outgoing into mani-
festation followed by periods of indrawal into obscuration,
as we see illustrated in the cycles of day and night and the
miracle of spring and fall. But there are still greater cydes:
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 97
those of nations and races, of centuries and ages, in each of
which humanity must inevitably reap the results of the
causes it has created and set into operation in previous
cycles, just as surely as the farmer must reap the results
of the seed he has sowed, whether or not he has sown tares
and thistles instead of wholesome grain. Jesus stated this
lawwhenHesaid: "Asamansoweth so also shall he reap.
. . For not one jot or tittle shall in any wise pass from
the law until all be fulfilled."
History therefore tends to repeat itself in greater or lesser
cycles. Nations, peoples and races tend to pass through
similar conditions, especially toward the close of their greater
and lesser cycles. And just as at the close of the cycle of
the year all Nature passes through the disagreeable and
trying conditkms which result from the storms which close
the cycle of summer, so do nations and humanity as a whole
have to pass through similar conditions of stress and strain
at the close of their respective seasons or cycles. This is
due to both planetary and to national causes. Through their
cyclic revolutions the planets periodically tend to return to
their former relations to each other and to the Earth and
therefore tend to subject the Earth and its humanity to con-
ditions similar to those which these relations set up in the
past cycles.
Humanity as a whole is now in the throes of such a great
cyclic reaping. We are now experiencing the culmination of
several lesser national and racial cycles which at this par-
ticular time coincide with the still greater 2160 year cycle
called an Age, namely, the closing of the old Piscean Age
and the beginning of the new Aquarian Age. In addition to
this, many years ago (1917)' we predicted that theEarth
was lilcdy to encounter a dark, invisible planet whose emana-
tions would poison the atmosphere and upset the nervous
systems of great masses of peoples, making them hyper-
2j The Phil.soÅy .f U'., Cianl...
98 The Inner Radiance
irritable, suspicious, quarrelsome, and even frantic and
homoddal. Now comes astronomer Boothroyd of Cornell
University with a recent newspaper announcement that we
are now beginning to enter a cloud of invisible cosmic dust
which he calls a "dark nebula," which he says will become
so dense that it will ultimately interfere with the amount
of light which we receive from the Sun, and will mark the
twentieth century as the "age of darkness." Thus, to the
planetary and karmic influences already mentioned, do we
have added actual physical particles of poisonous cosmic dust
for humanity to contend with. Please understand us clearly
on this point. We do not claim that this "poisonous star
dust" has caused present day conditions, but it may have
been a predis posing factor of importance.
This statement has been mis-quoted in front page sensa-
tional headlines by certain papers3 in such a way as to make
us say that this poisonous star dust is responsible for all the
ills of present world conditions. But as you will note, that
is not our statement. You have just heard us say that pres-
ent world conditions are the mathematical results of the in-
harmonious, evil and destructive causes tnan has generated
during the past long cycle of the Piscean Age, and that these
must either be redeemed by mankind or be experienced by
him through physical manifestations of an inharmonious or
destructive character. The poisonous star dust is but one
factor in this reaping, a physical vehicle by means of which
the past creations may be precipitated upon humanity, just
as the adverse planetary conditions form other factors work-
ing toward the same end.
Astronomers tell us that all these things indicate that the
planets are returning to the same relative positions and sub-
jecting humanity to the same combinations of forces and
"cosmic rays" as they did in the days of Noah and later on
in the days of Lot. And naturally we find human society
3 Orkisde (Fla.) Monuag Sethad, March 30, 1931.
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 99
in a similar state of unrest, inharmony, selfishness, lust,
crime, war and bloodshed. It is therefore high time, if we
really have learned anything from those former catastrophes,
to pay attention to the modern mystics and prophets who are
able to discern behind the outer forms of our present chaotic
conditions the mystical causes which are producing them.
For if humanity does not accept the warnings and apply the
remedy which the prophets set forth, we must expect to reap
results similar to those which followed the ignoring of the
warnings of Noah and Lot. That is the law.
Astrologers tell us that the Sun is in a very adverse as-
pect to Saturn, Uranus and Jupiter. And as Saturn is es-
pecially afflicting Uranus, it tends to retard all progress.
Such combinations have a very adverse influence both upon
finance and labor, as well upon agriculture. Hence we are
now experiencing planetary influences which tend to bring
about "hard times," unemployment, financial depression, and
panics, as well as political unrest and unusual droughts,
floods, crop failures and famines. These generally adverse
world influences will not cease until Saturn passes out of
the thrifty but earth-bound sign Capricorn into the airy but
erratic sign Aquarius on November 20, 1932, altho con-
ditions were modified for the better by the benign rays of
Jupiter, the Planet of Finance, when it passed out of Leo
into Virgo on August 11th of 1931.
But according to the Pyramid Measurements, whose
prophecies as to the exact days for the beginning and end-
ing of the World War and subsequent events have proved
so remarkably accurate, we need not look for the end of
these "Days of Tribulation" before September 15-16, 1936.
The length of first Low Passage of the Pyramid, allowing
one inch to a year, gave the exact dates for the most terrible
catastrophe in human history, the late World War, beginning
August 4-5, 1914 and ending November 10-11, 1918. On
the latter date we entered the period symbolized by the Great
Antechamber of the Pyramid, the chamber between the First
100 The Inner Radiance
and Second Low Passages and symbolizing the "Truce in
Chaos" between the two Tribulations.
The Second Low Passage indicates that the Second Trib-
ulation began May 29, 1928, and will extend until Septem-
ber 15-16, 1936. This Second Tribulation is indicated as
the "Tribulation of the Elect," during which they will adopt,
adapt and lend themselves as living materials for the build-
ing up of His kingdom. According to Mr. Davidson:4
"The First Low Passage is in limestone, and signifies a
period of chaotic conditions of a physkal nature. The Sec-
ond Low Passage is of granite, and signifies a Tribulation
of a different nature (apparently spiritual), with burden-
some conditions due to chaotic factors emerging and con-
tinuing over a prolonged period. . . . The dosing date of
the Second Low Passage, September 15-16, 1936, is a date
which is tremendously interesting to all, and involves the
closing of affairs of this state of world conditions along with
the problems of the actual Second Coming of Christ and the
establishment of a new race of people and a new system of
living. ... In every direction we now see threatening
chaos. Upon every horizon is observed fundamental reac-
tion. Mystery seems to surround natural tendencies. Hu-
man nature is stormy. Peculiar gravities pull at situations
religion, statecraft, philosophy, manners and customs.
Herculean efforts are made to veer the shipreforms, pun-
ishment of high crime and low, prohibition, League of Na-
tions, disarmament agreementsbut in vain.... Away
down deeply, something fundamental and foundational is
sensedblurred and out of focus as yet, but looming, pro-
digious and portentous.... Before the goal is reached
many will look back with understanding to the sequence of
now apparently unrelated events in physical phenomena,
trade, commerce, finance, economics and international rela-
tions, and will then realize the truth of the Pyramid mes-
sage." According to these prophecies (whichare not ours)
4Lber.ti... J4nuar7 3932, 319-20, 334.
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 101
September 15-16, 1936 is the date set for the phenomenal
appearance of the Christ upon the Earth in the flesh to in-
augurate the reign of a New Age of peace and harmony
and to lay down the laws and policies for the Aquarian Age
of love and brotherhood.
(To be concluded)
CHAPTER XII
COSMIC CAUSES OF WORLD CONDI-
TIONS AND THE REMEDY
PART II. TUE REMnY
If these are cosmic and karmic conditions from which the
whole world is now suffering and which are still impend-
ing, what can we do about them? As the cycle of the
Piscean Age doses and the results of man's unredeemed
wickedness becomes concentrated in the last few years of
the cycle, it must manifest destructively, both by inter fer-
ing with and deflecting the magnetic currents by which the
crust of the Earth is sustained and by unusual storms, floods,
droughts, plagues and pestilences. Thus we may expect
widespread cataclysms expressing through all four kingdoms
of Nature-forces, namely, earth, air, fire, and water. Ac-
cording to the Rev. Walter Wynn,1 whose astounding pyra-
mid prophecies have come true to date, these days will mark
the last hattie of Armageddon and the fulfillment of the bib-
lical prophecy: "Immediately after the tribulation of those
days shall the Sun be darkened and the moon shall not give
her light," because of the terrific volcanic eruptions whose
dust will so fill the air and sweep around the world that
they. together with cosmic. dust of the "dark nebula," will
interfere with the light of the Sun, lower the temperature
and markedly change the climate of the globe.
But instead of being entirely pessimistic, we teach that
if mankind can generate and broadcast sufficiently powerful
currents of righteousness, justice, international friendliness,
brotherhood and cooperation, such constructive forces will
1 LÎbCV,JWIS. Jan. 1932. 321.
102
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 103
neutralize the destructive forces and leave little to be ad-
justed cataclysmically. Much has been done toward this
end recently by the many international conferences of pre-
miers and statesmen, good-will airplane flights, meetings of
business associations and peace societies, etc. But alt this
constructive force thus generated can be dissipated by one
war of aggression and land-grabbing, such as is now going
on in China, which leaves us about where we were before,
if not a bit worse off.
But cosmic and planetary and karmic influences are not
fate. For an ancient axiom tells us that "the stars incline,
but do not compel." Also we are told to "rule our stars,"
instead of passively and helplessly giving way to their in-
fluences. That is, we must take advantage of their influ-
ences to attain our ends, just as the mariner takes advantage
of favorable winds or adjusts his sails to adverse winds so
that he uses their opposing power to push him on toward his
predetermined port. In other words, we must learn to turn
every adverse condition or force into constructive channels.
And with this cosmic background in mind, let us see how it
applies to present day conditions.
The remedy must be applied upon the plane of the causes,
namely, in the mind and heart of man, to control his reac-
tions to and the use he makes of the planetary and karmic
conditions. But how can the mind of man affect these con-
ditions? One of the strangest phenomena of the World
War was the sudden collapse of the Central Powers. This
was due, not to any serious lack of men and munitions, but
to a so-called loss of morale," both in the trenches of the
Central Powers and among their people at home. Why was
this? In 1916 our Order of Christian Mystics inaugurated
a world-wide prayer service each day at noon, praying that
righteousness and justice should prevail. And as we have
students in seventy foreign countries, and as it is noon some-
where every minute of the twenty-four hours, the forces
generated in all those countries were joined with ours and
104 The Inner Radiance
circled the globe continuously every minute of the day and
night.
This idea of community prayer was taken up by many
churches and other organizations and as a result a
tremendous psychological and spiritual force was generated
and set sweeping through the mental world in great cur-
rents of thought-force which naturally affected every mind
at all sensitive to its radiating wave-length. It therefore
operated against continuing the war and neutralized the war-
thoughts spread by the smaller number of miitarists and
ambitious politicians and nationalists. These great interna-
tional prayer currents became more powerful and potent
from day to day as the futility of the terrible carnage of war
was brought to man's realization, so that finally the war psy-
chology was neutralized and overcome by thoughts of peace,
and the sudden collapse from the so-called "loss of morale"
took place. Now if psychological and spiritual forces gen-
erated en masse upon an international scale and consciously
directed to a definite end could stop a World War, so can
they stop a world depression.
First, let us take the stock-market collapse. While therc
were economic factors back of it, the precipitating featurt
was psychological, namely, FEAR. The bad aspect of Sat-
urn to Uranus, the planet of sudden changes, and especially
Saturn's adverse aspect to Jupiter, the planet of finance, was
a predominating unbalancing influen toward unreasoning
and frenzied speculation. It even upset the judgment of
financiers and managers of big business. For they arc
largely responsible for allowing stocks to be traded in far
beyond the point where they could possibly pay interest or
dividends upon the price paid. In other words, the bad
planetary influences against the planet of finance warped the
usual good judgment of all but a few financial leaders, and
their warnings were not heeded. Even the Federal Reserve
Board was swept by the same force until too late to stem the
tide.
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 105
But why did it not continue? Why the sudden collapse?
It was due to a sudden wave of change from Uranus and
a wave of fear from Saturn which the financial and stock-
market leaders allowed to go on to a panic. Therefore Sat-
urn's chilling and congealing influence upon Jupiter, the
planet of finance, naturally produced "frozen assets" as a
psychological result of fear. There was just as much money
in the world as ever, since it had not been suddenly destroyed
or buried. But those who had it and controlled it were
afraid to put it into circulation. For instance, there were
some thirty-five billions on deposit on the savings banks
alone, the greatest amount in the history of the country. Be-
tween September 1st and lSth (1932), newspaper reports tell
us that more than twelve hundred millions were paid out in
cash in New York alone in interest and dividends by the
great corporations. Not a paltry two hundred million Eng-
land wished to borrow, nor the four hundred millions Ger-
many wanted, but twelve hundred millions. The U. S.
Treasury loan of eight hundred millions was over-subscribed
six times and at the low rate of 1$%. Hence never was
moneý so cheap when once the influence of fear was over-
come by confidence.
Turning to the constructive side of the picture, what are
some of the remedies the "impractical mystic" sees for such
conditions? Firstly, our whole financial system must be so
revised that a few groups of uncontrolled banks and cor-
porations cannot tie up the assets of the Nation for selfish
purposes and without regard for the good of the whole.
Secondly, all deposits must be either insured or in some way
guaranteed. The savings of a man's lifetime of industry
and frugality must be made absolutely safe in some way for
his use in time of need. If the banks do not voluntarily
work out this problem from within, it will be worked out
from without, even if it comes to the point where the Got'-
ernment should take over the eiitire banking system as it has
the postoffices, perhaps keeping some of the present officials
H
106 The Inner Radiance
as managers, but at reasonable salaries instead of exorbitant
ones now often paid. We have been advocating this for
years and we are glad to say that steps have already been
taken in this direction by the Glass bill and the one now be-
fore Congress to insure deposits.2 We are not financiers
and we do not care how details are worked out, but we can
see the results if conditions are not adequately remedied.
Men of great wealth and those in control of great wealth
must stop and realize that they cannot take their wealth
with them after death any more than Kreuger and Eastman
did. They can take only the memory of how they used the
funds that were entrusted to them by the Great Law to ad-
minister for the greatest good of all. They will then realize
that they are but te,nporary custodians or trustees for the
Great Husbandman to Whom they must ultimately give an
account. Therefore they must neither waste the funds in
riotous living, nor bury them in a napkin for their own
selfish uses, but put them out to constructive use in such a
way that they will benefit the greatest number, including the
spread of spiritual and moral principles and a real under-
standing of the mystery of life and why we caine here to
Earth and what we can take with us when we return to our
true home in the higher worlds.
Even if the stock market collapse and the entire business
depression was but one phase of a deliberate conspiracy
among Jewish international bankers for the ultimate de-
struction of Christian civilization and Christian governments,
as claimed by some authorities and as some Jewish periodi-
cals boast, nevertheless such conditions only emphasize the
necessity for either closer governmental supervision or en-
tire governmental control of the financial structure of the
country.
As to hoarding, long before President Hoover's campaign
against it, we had advocated the spending of cash now for
every permanent improvement and c6nstructjon needed and
2 Later this blfl was passed, Insuring deposits up to $2,SOO.00.
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 107
also for investment. For now the dollar will buy more than
ever before. And as President hoover has said, a dollar
spent now will release ten dollars in credit.
Next let us look at the business depression. The stock
market collapse was a factor, it is true, but that should have
been limited largely to speculators who paid far more for
stocks and bonds than they were worth or who sold some-
thing they did not own (short selling) and hence should
suffer for it. That is a practice which should and must be
stopped. And we are glad to see that it is now before con-
gress for investigation and remedy. Therefore let your Rep-
resentatives and Senators hear what you think of it as soon
as possible. But in spite of the collapse of the stock market
the factories and mills and mines are still here and just a
efficient as ever, but each had gnne ahead independently in-
creasing production without regard to consumption or de-
mand, and so they were forced to waste their assets in trying
to create and force artificial markets and demands for their
unwise over-production. But the Manufacturers Associa-
tion or some similar body recently reported that over-pro-
duction could not be assigned more than 25% of the causes
of the depression. The others resulted from fear, frozen
assets, greed, and cut-throat competition.
Nevertheless there must be some kind of organization for
planned production which will control production in due re--
lation to consumption. Whether this will be done by regional
monopolies for each product or by control boards which will
license manufacturers and assign to each the amount of pro-
duction needed by their specialty these are details which
can readily be worked out when their fundamental necessity
is grasped. We are glad to see that this process is already
being put into effect voluntarily right here in Floridaas
it has long ago been put into operation in Californiawith
the organization of its Otrus, Grape, Celery and Potato
Growers and Poultry Raisers associations.
But especially must agriculture in general be put on the
108 The Inner Radiance
same or similar basis as manufacturers, and not be at the
mercy of auctions for the sale of their products. What
manufacturer could long stay in business if he shipped his
goods to the big cities and took whatever they would bring
at auction? Neither should agricultural products be at the
mercy of such a system, but should be paid for either at the
farm or f.o.b. at the nearest shipping point. This method
is already being put into effect for certain crops which are
now bought and paid for either on the trees or in the field.
But before this process can be more widely extended there
must be some method either of voluntary or compulsory
regulation of production to demand. Also the price must
be determined not by auction but by a fair profit to the pro-
ducer.
Now what is the remedy? Production must be geared to
consumption either by voluntary co-operation within each
industry or by limited regional or national monopolies under
state or governmental regulation. Big business must also
learn that business exists to serve the needs of the people,
with only a reasonable compensation for that service, and
not that the people exist to be exploited up to the limits the
traffic will bear. If real co-operation and co-ordination and
control of supply and demand is not instituted from within,
it will be from without. Since we have been advocating
these ideas we are glad to see the Swope plan and others of
a similar nature now being seriously considered.
As to unemployment, again we must realize that accord-
ing to the great underlying law of brotherhood and co-opera-
tion the state and society exist to serve man and not man for
the state or society. In other words, some plan must be de-
vised whereby every person shall be guaranteed some avenue
of productive employment according to his abilities. Prop-
erly arranged, this need not eliminate private initiative and
responsibility nor put a premium on laziness and inefficiency
nor put the unemployed working man on a dole. Those are
details of management which the experts in various lines
Cosmic Causes of World Conditions 109
have plenty of brains to work out. Much has been done in
a preliminary way by profit-sharing, unemployment insur-
ance, industrial indemnity, old age pensions, etc. But this
,nust be extended in a comprehensive and inclusive system.
Until this is accomplished, after the unemployed have
sought for every avenue of activity, even if it be not to their
exact taste, they should take the mental attitude that they
will not be unemployed. If they cannot work for others let
them work for themselves. They should busy themselves in
some constructive activity of body or mind. Let them make
repairs to the house or the car, mend the fence, paint the
garage or the roof, dig in the garden, or if such activities
are not open to them, they should do something for a neigh-
bor or for some one else. Let them even offer to work for
their keep and let the balance of payment wait for six
months or a year. Many a business could use extra men if
the major part of the payroll could be postponed for a few
months. In any event, such an attitude of mind would tune
the worker in with the constructive currents of the cosmos
which have brought all forms in the universe into manifes-
tation, and as they flow through him in some activity, it will
not be long crc some remunerative avenue will open for him.
In any event it costs nothing to try it and see.
To sum up: what the mystic sees coming is that mankind
must learn that the ultimate good of the whole is the basis
of all progress and prosperity; that true brotherhood and
co-operation is the basis of humanity's happiness and suc-
cess; that while nations and races may have definite bound-
aries, as do the various organs of the body, they must not
be allowed to become selfish barriers which prevent the or-
gans of the body politic from cooperating with one another
for the good of the whole of humanity, by which co-opera-
tion alone their own individual good is assured.
And finally, after we have recognized the effect on our
civilization of the foul ulcers of narcotic addiction, white-
slavery and organized vice and their diseases, also drunken-
110 The Inner Radiance
ness and organized crime, and have cleaned tJ:'.;t, up, we
must realize that the destructive forces of national and in-
ternational non-co-operation and selfishness, which inevitably
culminate in war, is the great cancer which is sapping the
vitality from every organ of the body of humanity, and that
if these conditions are not corrected by the enlightened in-
telligence of the practical men of the world, they will be
operated upon by the great cosmic Law of Adjustment in
such a cataclysmic way that the terrible suffering which will
result will break down the barriers between nations and open
the eyes of mankind to the fact that only through the co-
hesive and regenerating power of love, brotherhood and
co-operation can the body of mankind survive. Only as we
seek to manifest the Christ-consciousness within in our daily
dealing with each other and realize that we are indeed "our
brother's keeper" can humanity be saved from reaping de-
structively the results of the inharmonious and destructive
forces we have generated.
We mystics may not be practical,' but we do see funda-
mental causes of world conditions and glimpse their results
if they are not corrected and neutralized. And we would
not be doing our duty if we did not give our vision to the
world, in spite of the ridicule and abuse of minds whose
consciousness cannot expand to grasp ideas that are beyond
their immediate environment. It is therefore a great pleas-
ure to speak to a body of business men of so wide a vision
as to be willing, not only to invite us to present our visions
of coming events, but to give us such careful and considerate
attention and such a courteous reception. I thank you.
Every one of the recommendatIons prophetically prasqtted In this speech,
made during the Hoover adininlstraton in 1932. has been adoeed, either di.
racily or 1* a tort., by the Roosevelt administration In 1933.
CHAPTER XIII
THE MYSTIC ROSE
"1 (the Real Self) am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the val-
leys."S'ong of Solonson, ii, 1.
"Look to the Rose that blows about us'Lo,
'Laughing,' she says, 'into the World I blow:
At once the silken Tassel of my Purse
'Tear1 and its Treasure on the Garden throw?"
The Rvbaiyat of Omar Khayjam, xiv.
There are no words which can exactly express Divine
Realities because those Realities exist in the higher dimen-
sional worlds, the worlds of four or more dimensions. A
four-dimensional idea can be expressed in this three-dimen-
sional world only by a symbol, analogy or allegory which
manifests something of the qualities of the Reality that is
being presented for our comprehension. For countless ages
and, in many lands the rose has been used as such a symbol;
to symbolize Divine Love, because of its ravishing perfume,
its cheering beauty, and' its other innate qualities which
help man to forget the commonness and sordidness of every-
day life.
The object of evolution among all forms is the perfect
manifestation of the highest type-form of each species.1
Such a state of perfection is called Mastery in each species.
This state we are told has already been attained in many
kingdoms. Among the various earths the diamond has
reached this perfected state of Mastery. Among metals it
is gold. Among trees it is the oak, and among flowers it is
the rose. Among animals it is man. Among mankind it is
the spiritually illumined Initiate. Doubtless man could have
iSis The Tmth Abiss Ev.I.si.. aid the Bihi Curd.., Chapter IlL
111
112 The Inner Radiance
learned his lessons and ultimately have achieved Mastery in
a world devoid of beauty, but to be surrounded by the won-
drous beauty of those kingdoms whose highest forms have
attained Mastery not only affords him example and encour-
agement, but gives eloquent evidence that God is Love.
The rose symbolizes Divine Love and the spiritual unfold-
ment of mankind because it pictures forth the various stages
of the mystical unfoldment of Divine Love within the heart
of man which are evidence that man is made in the Image of
God; that Image or Higher Self of man which is destined
ultimately to blossom as a Mystic Rose and manifest in the
heart and life of each human personality.
While the rose is said to be the most beautiful and mysti-
cal of all flowers and to reach its perfection only in Para-
dise, yet even its simplest and least cultivated blossom never
fails to awaken in the most untutored heart a wave of joy
at its beauty, and at least a temporary, even if unrealized,
vibration of aspiration and hope for a manifestation of that
Divine Love which is God. This response brings at least
a dim realization that if God manifests through Nature in
such beauty and fragrance, no one should think that He
could forget or overlook even the poorest and humblest of
His own children, but manifests in the heart of each in the
beauty of holiness and the odor of sanctity.
Primarily the rose symbolizes the oneness underlying the
many, or unity in diversity. It has many individual petals,
yet is one blossom. Each petal has its own individuality, yet
each draws its life from the one source. Its petals have no
rootlets, yet are firmly joined to a common center. Human-
ity may, therefore, be likened to the petals of the Rose Di-
vine. Each Soul has its own individuality, yet each has its
roots in the common spiritual center and draws its life from
the one great spiritual Source. All are equal in the possi-
bility of expressing the aspect of the Divine that is within,
but each varies according to the degree of his manifesta-
tion of that Inner Self. In the personality the number and
The Mystic Rose 113
beauty of the qualities unfolded like petals and the perfume
of the life mark definite stages in the manifestation of the
Mystic Rose within.
Some roses, like some Souls, are more advanced than
others and manifest in greater beauty and perfection, and
exhale a greater quantity and rarer quality of perfume.
Many Souls have opened but a few petals like the wild roses
which require a whole hillside of blossoms to express the
beauty and perfume that is concentrated in the many petals
of the American Beauty and other advanced roses. Yet no
matter how primitive a blossom, how few its petals or how
faint its perfume, its blooming brings joy and beauty to
someone and its presence transforms the poorest dwelling
or the most desolate garden. No matter how undeveloped
and far from our ideal the manifestation of our Mystic
Rose may be, our life and environment are transformed
and beautified according to the degree that we express Di-
vine Love, be we but simple wild roses or advanced culti-
vated ones.
Many Souls who are still on the lower rungs of the ladder
of evolution, and whose lessons lie largely in the material
world, are 111cc the rose bush which has as yet put forth only
leaves and thorns. Such need the storms and lessons of the
outer life to teach them that intellectual attainments and
worldly successes alonemere leaves and thornsno mat-
ter how brilliant, pointed and shining, are not the ultimate
attainment or blossom of life. Many such are now realizing
this and are beginning to put forth buds, although as yet
there is little understanding that a blossom is forming, and
no conception of the beauty and perfume of that which is
to come. Yet if they keep on striving to assimilate the ex-
periences of life, their bud will surely come to bloom in due
season. Sonic1 however, reach the bud stage but fail to go
farther because of some blight of selfishness or canker of
impurity within. These are roses which need severe prim-
ing. For all advanced roses reach their richness and beauty
114 The Inner Radiance
of perfection only after repeated pruning, many bitter ex-
periences and the constant attention of a wise gardener.
There are as many varieties of roses as there are types
of humanity, yet like each type of humanity, each rose has
within it the possibility of manifesting an outpouring of Di-
vine Love and beauty which shall awaken in humanity a
mysteriously touching inner gladness. For there is not a
single type of rose which does not bring delight and which
is not loved by someone, because it embodies some aspect
of beauty which touches the heart and correlates with a
similar stage of unfoldment of some Soul. As wild roses
require many masses of blossoms to fill the air with perfume
and many seasons and much transplanting and culture to
transform them into roses of greater beauty and perfection,
so do the blossoming of simple human virtues among the
ignorant masses of mankind bring joy and happiness to
many. Yet it will require many incarnations and much
patient striving crc their Mystic Rose can come to perfect
bloom. Only as each rose grows in its own place and ex-
presses its own aspect of beauty and gives forth its own
perfume, can all parts of the world be beautified and the
hearts of all types of humanity be touched and uplifted.
The blossoming of the rose must not be forced if it is to
endure, but must unfold according to the nature of its spe-
des. The bud must not be pulled open from without, but
must follow the Law of Manifestation, i.e., that all growth
must come from within outward. The buds of the rose
may be lilcened to the mystical centers in man's body which,
in some incarnation, are destined to unfold and shed their
perfume in his life. If their unfoldment is forced they are
apt to develop abnormally and confront the student with
forces and problems he is not prepared by normal growth to
master Only when we have been firmly rooted by experi-
ence in the soil of Earth conditions and our buds begin to
open normally, because we are responding to the Sun of
Righteousness and are absorbing the waters of Divine Love
The Mystic Rose 115
can these centers blossom in our lives as true spiritual un-
foldment or petals of our Mystic Rose within.
When a rose is analyzed it is found to consist of an out-
side protecting sheaththe green calyxwhich surrounds
the petals composing the corolla, while within is a golden
center composed of stamens. From this standpoint the
calyx corresponds to the physical body which is so neces-
sary to enclose and protect our mystic centers, while the
petals correspond to our inner spiritual faculties and pow-
ers. But as long as the petak remain tightly closed and
undeveloped no one can perceive the beauty or enjoy the
perfume of the rose that is to be. Only as we open our
higher faculties and begin to bloom spiritually, can we really
exprcss the beauty of the indwelling Soul or exhale the per-
fume, which is its spiritual essence. Our petals may be few
and small, as in the wild rose, or many, as in an advanced
rose, but each petal unfolded is a thing of beauty, and the
perfume is delightful, even if faint.
The golden center is found in the heart of all roses, just
as the golden Light of the Christ-force is found in the hearts
of all mankind. This golden center represents the Divine
Flame; for the curved, yellow stamens are as perfect a pat-
tern of a flame as Nature can outpicture. They also act
as wireless antennae which catch the vibrations or key-note
of the perfect pattern or Ideal Type' which each particular
rose is intended to manifest, and register those vibrations in
form and color instead of sound. They also transmit the
special characteristics of each rose to the seed as it adheres
to the stem after the'petals have fallen. Through our spir-
itual stamens or the upreaching aspirations of our hearts,
we catch the key-notes of the Flame of spiritual life of our
Ideal Type or Higher Self and register them in the beauty
of our lives and transmit them to the permanent atoms upo'
which our future incarnations are built.
Just as the unfolding of the petals into full bloom;
ZScc Tke Trrik Abo.S EV.J.HOII .aJ she BiN., CurtIs., 34.'
116 The Inner Radiance
to the Flame of Life or the manifestation of the Spirit of
the Rose, by causing the growth and expansion of the golden
center, so is it that only as the heart awakens and begins to
unfold and the sacred Flame streams forth from the Divine
Self, can our spiritual petals come into full bloom and the
Soul-essence, or the perfume of Divine Love, be shed abroad
upon all we contact.
If a petal lets go its hold upon the golden center it falls
to the ground, for there is nothing to hold it fast save its
own power of cohesion. And no matter how fresh and
beautiful the petals may be in themselves, they are a part
of the rose only while they cling to their proper place around
the center. Like petals, we absorb our spiritual life from
the Sacred Flame within our hearts. And only as we vol-
untarily ding dose to the inner Flame of the Christ-force
can we bring forth the beauty and sweetness which must
manifest as we unfold the blossom of the Mystic Rose
within. Therefore, must we deliberately and continually
choose to dwell, in thought and with faith and thanksgiving,
upon our Mystic Rose, if we are to make it the visible mani-
festation of the Christ within us. And no matter how won-
derful the petals we may unfold, if we do not retain our
touch with the heart-center and draw our life from the
Christ within, we can never express the Rose of Divine
Love, for our petals will fall to the ground or manifest only
in their earthly aspects. But when all have been manifested
to perfection we will drop all our outer expressions and
withdraw from Earth conditions and manifest in the higher
worlds.
Considering the Mystic Rose as the Real or Divine Self,
the blossoms, as they unfold season after season, may be
likened to the personalities through which the Flame of
our Soul-life finds expression age after age, all of which
are required to complete the full blooming of the Soul on
Earth. After each blossom or personality has drawn from
the Mystic Rose as much of its Soul-qualities as it is
The Mystic Rose 117
capable of expressing, or if for any reason it no longer
clings to the heart-center1 it falls to the ground. But even
though it disappeirs and seems to die, yet it has built its
experience into and added its strength and beauty of ex-
pression to the one Eternal Root the Mystic Rose which
is our Real Self, from which new and more perfect blos-
soms will put forth in each incarnation.
Every rose has its thorns, some more, some less, which
are necessary to protect it from those forces which would
consume it or prevent its manifestation. Thorns and leaves
represent our outer characteristics while the petals repre-
sent our inner spiritual gifts. Uncultivated roses run largely
to bush and leaves and have few or primitive blossoms. But
with cultivation the rose gradually modifies its thorns, in-
creases the number and beauty of its petals and the amount
and quality of its perfume. In our earlier or wild-rose
stages of spiritual unfoldment, we may have but a few primi-
tive blossoms and little perfume, and may retain many harsh
thorn-like expressions, but as we deliberately make an effort
to cultivate our spiritual petals, as persistently as a gardener
works over a rose, and try to radiate more and more of the
perfume of love, our blossoms will be more beautiful and
more numerous, and the need for harsh defensive expres-
sions will grow less and less until all our force of growth
will be continually concentrated upon blossoms which shall
manifest the beauty and sweetness of our Mystic Rose, the
Real Self.
No matter bow wild and uncultivated a rose may be: no
matter how unimportant, unnoticed or neglected we may
seem to be, we can each bring forth some flower of Soul
unfoldment. When sad or despondent or when discouraged
with the stony soil of our environment and our seeming lack
of growth, we should visualize the Mystic Rose within and
inhale its perfume. OEng to the thought that if God can
make roses bloom on a barren hillside or even in a desert,
if we try to correlate with our inner Mystic Rose, so can
118 The Inner Radiance
He bring forth some beautiful Soulquality to bloom in our
lives, no matter what our environment.
If we realize that we too have a golden heart where the
Divine Flame manifests as life, love, cheer and beauty, we
can send up our stamens of aspiration no matter how gloomy
and sunless the day, and draw down and absorb the warmth
of Divine Love which shall enable us to put forth blossoms
instead of thorns in our life. Therefore, day after day let
us concentrate on the Mystic Rose within and the ideals
we desire to have bloom in our life and let the undesirable
qualities fall from us like faded petals, because we no longer
hold them to us or give them life-force by our attention
or by thinking of or expressing them.
While we must all manifest in the environment and
through the body in which we have chosen to incarnate,
nevertheless we can choose our path and guide our course
through those conditions if we will. But we must cultivate
each ideal and vital principle which we have thoughtfully
chosen to guide our lives until they become beautiful petals
in the unfolding of our Mystic Rose, that we may express
on Earth that Image of God in which we were created.
God intended this Earth to be a perfect Eden, a perfect
garden of roses, yet He will not compel His children, because
He has given us free-will. Nor would He be wise to force
even the beauty and joy of His Love upon an unreceptive
or unwilling heart. He has planted the Mystic Rose of His
life and love within our hearts, but there is something we
must voluntarily choose to do to bring it into manifestation.
Unless we purposely cultivate our Mystic Rose it may bring
forth only leaves and thorns. For when untended even the
finest roses may become only cumbering, tangled thickets or
even like noisome weeds, when despoiled by insects or cov-
ered with mould.
Realize that the students of this Order are not merely a
band of occult students selfishly seeking only their own en-
lightenment and psychic unfoldment, but are meant to be an
The Mystic Rose 119
enlightened regiment of trained warriors, understanding the
conditions which confront humanity and determined to do
all in their power to shorten the dark days of tribulation
that are now upon us.' They stand hand in hand and heart
to heart to make their garden of roses radiate such a beauty
of holiness and such a perfume of Divine Love that it shall
help to illumine the minds of mankind, cleanse the Earth and
counteract or neutralize many of the destructive conditions
which humanity is bringing upon itself4 as the old Piscean
cycle draws to a close, and which must be cleared up and
eliminated, crc the new Aquarian Age can fully manifest.
Thus can this Order become a mighty rampart of protection
and also a giant broadcasting station to help prepare the
mind of mankind and also Earth conditions for the coming
of the Divine One. Realizing the mighty Power that is
back of us and which is seeking expression through our
united efforts and thought force, we can say with David:
"Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall
not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I
be confident."'
Think of The Order of Chrictian Mystics as a garden of
roses, a Garden of the King's Delight. Realize that each
one who finds in it his true Soul-home has been selected and
transplanted into it from his former spiritual environment
by the Great Gardener to see if all can grow together in this
especially prepared soil and under His personal care. Here
we must forget self and our own development in the greater
work of helping humanity to meet the "days of tribulation"
which are now upon us; for we have been transplanted into
this Garden of Souls because we have eagerly responded to
His call to do the will of Him who bath chosen us.
As we all grow together we shall make this Order a spir-
itual Garden of Roses whose beauty shall attract the atten-
See C.,.1,,g W.di Cheeg.:, Curtis..
IPz.Siiss, xxvii, 3.
120 The Inner Radiance
tion and touch the hearts of all who are ready, and whose
perfume shall fill the air with the emanations, the very Pres-
ence, of Divine Love, bringing comfort to the sad, peace and
rest to the weary, cheer to the discouraged, and beauty and
love to all.
CHAPTER XIV
THE GREAT AND THE SMALL
"Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end shall greatly
ancrease."Job, visa, 7.
"Oh, how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them
that love thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee
before the sons of men."PsoIms xxxi, 19.
"Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with
all thy. getting, get understandang."Proverbs, iv, 7.
"He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me
was love."Sony of Solomon, ii, 4.
The mighty Law of Life is moving, ever moving, to its
destined fulfillment. Out of Love and Wisdom did it come
forth, and back into Love and Wisdom must it indraw all
things. It moves on the wings of silence, for all things that
are divine and destined ultimately to manifest, move silently,
growing after the Divine Pattern, building in atom by
atom the Divine Substance which is forever chang-
ing, ultimately glorifying earthly things into their heavenly
pattern. Alas, however, man, who was breathed forth in
God's image, has so distorted and hidden his heavenly pat-
tern in physical matter of the earth earthy and fashioned his
thoughts after the desires and ideals of the man of earth
each following his own ideas as to what pattern he thinks
will appear most attractivethat the heavenly pattern is
often scarcely recognizable.
But as the great Wheel of Life turns steadily onward and
upward the time draws near when mighty changes must
come both to man and the planet, because the Earth never
goes back over the same path nor should man, if he learns
his lessons. For while the Earth rotates on its axis as it
I 121
122 The Inner Radiance
revolves around the Sun it is also moving onward through
space with the rest of the solar system. So should it be in
man's spiritual life. That which is up today shall be down
tomorrow, and that which is down shall be up, yet each time
in a different region in space and subjected to different
combinations of forces and conditions. When all things
seem topsy-turvy; when those things we have considered
great shall be seen as of small account and those that we have
thought small shall prove to be great, it is because of the per-
spective in which we then view them. it is therefore well
for each Soul to know that there are certain realities which
are eternally great, no matter how seemingly small they may
appear at times, and certain weaknesses and human mistakes
whjch are always small in the sight of God, aitho they may
loom large to us at times. For God is Love, wise Love or
Wisdom-Love. And His banner of Light is over us, even
though we cannot see it because of the clouds of our own
misunderstanding.
There is not one of us who has not the great things, the
etetnal things of the Real Self within, and who has not also
the small things, the transient things of the personality to
manifest. By small we do not mean minute or of little
consequence, for at times they fill our whole consciousness
and horizon. We mean small in the sense of being so little
worth while, so petty, so non-essential that they are not
worthy of a place in our consciousness or life, yet have a
lesson for us to learn. If we know positively that in a
definite length of time certain things which now seem im-
portant and which we are manifesting in our lives would
then appear, even in the eyes of our worldly friends, as too
far beneath us, too small to be given such importance or even
to be taken notice of, how quickly would we try to transmute
them, to turn our minds from them and change our conduct!
Therefore it is wise for us to examine our lives and our
acts, our ideals and our thoughts, and determine just what
qualities we desire to manifest and what we should trans-
The Great and the Small 123
mute; just how we would like our name to go down to
posterity; just what kind of a character we would like to
manifest as our own.
We know that every Soul that is reborn on Earth is born
with certain chåracteristics or inherent faculties and traits
which are its very own and which distinguish it from all
others. And some of these are great. In fact, there is
something noble and true in the things which have persisted;
in the things which we have built up life after life, age after
age. But as we enter into this life, in certain nations, in cer-
tain environments, in certain families, we take on at least a
coloring from the national and family heredity and from the
conditions and things with which we are associated. All
these are not really our own. We may think they are ours
and we may need the experience which they will bring, but
they are not a part of us. Yet they are responsibilities
which we have assumed and things we have predicated our-
selves to inherit as a part of the price of our earthly incar-
nation.
Everyone born of woman is born to a certain greatness,
for the greatness is inherent in the Real or Spiritual Self.
In many the expression of this greatness is latent, for they
have not realized it nor striven to manifest it. But it is this
innate power of the Spiritual Self which we must seek to
awaken into manifestation and cultivate. Let us say to
ourselves: "The little petty things that have occupied so
much of my attention and that I have expressed so often
that my friends are familiar with them are not really myself,
do not come from my Real Self, are but imperfections of
my personality. They are but the karmic dust which still
clings to me." What then is lcarmic dust? It is something
from out the past which we permit to cling to us, which we
have not permitted the greatness within to wipe away.
Therefore we have to meet it again and again and suffer
from it until we conquer it.
What are the forces of selfishness and vanity, of greed
124 The Inner Radiance
and lust that sweep over us at times and carry us from the
Path of our destined greatness; that plunge us into the
slough of despond? They are but the dust of the ages which
we have left behind; the residue of the things we have ap-
parently conquered, yet whose dust remains to follow us like
a cloud in the shape of temptations which blind us to the
guidance of the Real Self. They appall us because they
seem to be a part of us, yet they are only the dust of those
things from which we have not fully separated ourselves.
This is why those who boldly step out upon the Path are
often assailed by douds of evil temptations seemingly greater
than before they started to climb the Mount of Attainment,
just as the traveller who is determined to win the goal is
coverçd with the dust of the road he travels in proportion
to the rapidity of his progress. They assail us today be-
cause we are progressing, but have not absolutely anni-
hilated them. But they are only dust which, with God's help,
we can shake off if we will. They are the petty things
which must give place to the great.
The whole world is now being brought to the banquet of
the Soul which Divine Love has prepared for us in our
Father's home from the beginning of time. Surely those of
us who are tired of feeding on the husks with the swine and
who have perhaps been ledeither by our own doubting
heart or by misdirected teachingto believe that these husks
and these swine with whom we wrangle for the gratification
of the petty things of life are all that God has prepared for
us. Surely if we stop to listen we can hear afar off the
angelic chorus of joy and thanksgiving of Those who have
found their way hack to their Father's home. We may even
hear the loving words of our Elder Brothers asking us:
"Why sit ye here all the day idle? Why grovel ye among
the swine? Arise and follow us into the banqueting hall of
your Father."
For a time we may listen rejoiced, but when we find that
we are far from Home and the Way is long and weary and
The Great and the Small 125
requires much exertion and persistent plodding, we are apt
to say: "Here I at least have husks to eat. How can I trust
to empty promises which I have heard repeated over and
over until I am weary of them? I can see little change in
my environment or in me, nor do I see any wonderful
changes or great advantages in those who have left the husks
and started out to travel I know not where, ragged, footsore
and weary and covered with dust. Why should I give up
the little enjoyments of my present life for empty promises
of greatness to be attained in the far distant future?" This
is the argument of the petty human personality which is
unawakened to a realization of the Great Self which is striv-
ing for expression and which is calling it Home to t,he
banqueting house of the Father;
Those who respond to the call and start out on the journey
may see the bogs to be crossed, the heights to be scaled and
the dust of the road, but they are upheld by faith; for they
have had the vision of the Father's home and are sustained
by the realization of their Sonship and the welcome that
awaits them, even though often forgotten when footsore and
weary. And, who knows? Around the next turn in the
Path they may see one of the Father's servants (the
Masters) coming toward them with the Robe of the House-
hold and the Ring of Sonship.
Many earnest and sincere students who have gained from
books and teachers and mystical lore much wisdom, but
without real understanding, grow discouraged and despond-
ent and lose faith if the Great Teachers, the Masters of
Wisdom, do not at once acknowledge their sincerity and in
a miraculous manner fulfill their desires and supply the petty
needs of the personal self, which are nearly always physical
abundant supply, success and worldly recognition, etc.
Ofttimes they ask for these things that they may do what
they believe to be the Master's work. But in their seeking
for wisdom they have not gained true understanding or they
would realize that the Master's work is expressed in the
126 The Inner Radiance
words: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his right-
eousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." For
the Father waits to give them as soon as we prepare our-
selves to receive and use them aright.
If we forget the injunction: "How great is thy goodness,
which thou hast laid up for them that love thee; which thou
hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of
men," and grow weary of the Way and of the long wait while
our understanding is developing; if we forget our innate
greatness and argue ourselves into an inferiority complex
or disbelieve in the promises which are constantly repeated
to man all down the ages by Those who have attained to
their fulfillment, how patient must our Elder Brothers be
with us! Realize if you can the divine patience and love
of those Great Souls who, because They sought for and
gançd real understanding, have been appointed by the
Father as His servants to help every child who sets out upon
the Path to the Father's home. For They are near every
struggling Soul, holding over us God's Banner of Love.
They are never faint or weary, but lead us ever onward until
They bring the impatient and disbelieving children into the
banqueting house where they never more shall lack any good
thing.
But ere we can reach our jõurney's end we must get under-
standing. We must realize that we can and must live in His
banqueting house here and now; that we do not have to
wait until we suffer and die before we can find the Father's
house. The personality and its needs is but the outer earthly
covering of the Real Self, the divine Immortal Soul which
is one with God, who is Love and Wisdom personified.
This is what so few of us have realized and understood, be-
cause we have put the man of flesh first and have learned
either to ignore or look upon our mighty I Am Presence as
but a beautiful mystical dream, so ethereal that only after
death can it be fulfilled and only in the far distant future
when we are done with the things of this physical life.
The Great and the Small 127
But if we understand the true place of our Lord from
Heaven and realize that the personal man of earth must be
His servant, then we will say: "There shall be no more of
this. I will no longer let the small things of the personal
self obstruct the great things of the Real Self. The things
of the past shall no longer stifle me, for I will shake them
off like the dust of the Path." Some day, when the time of
our Great Initiation comes, we will be able to look back and
see how much of our littleness, of our bad tempers, of our
thoughtless unkindnesses, of our cruelties and impurities we
have left behind; will see how much of them have crumbled
to dust1 yet how much of the dust still remains. But since
that great day is not yet here for most of us, we can only
prepare for it by trying to live more dosely to that which
is our Real Self, that Greatness which has brought us forth
from among the swine and their husks, which has set our
feet upon the Path.
Instead of thinking of how small we are, of how many
faults we have, of how few our number is, let us remember
how great we are within, how strong we are, how loving we
are! Then let us utilize that strength and manifest that
love! When we feel tempted to be petty, to be little, to be
anything less than the ideal we have chosen, let us say to
ourselves: "Is this I or is it only something I have taken up
along the way, some dust of the past that clings to my gar-
ments ?" Then let us say: "0 Divine Indweller, draw near
and let Thy greatness manifest through me. Let Thy radi-
ant shining make white and spotless my garments of mind
and body. Let mebe washed in the blood of the Lamb that
I may be filled with the Divine Life of the Christ."
Then will we hear the Voice of the Christ speaking to us
from out the Silence: "My beloved ones, I need your help.
I must have you clothed in the beauty of holiness. I must
have you stand before the world as My chosen ones. I
know the time is coming when you will conquer all. Why
not conquer now? Why not push aside the littleness that
128 The Inner Radiance
you find clinging to the Greatness which is you? Have
Wisdom: it is yours for the asking. Have discretion: it is
freely found within you. Have power: My scepter is
stretched out for you to take. 1 ask you to represent me
before the world. Can you not hear My Voice? Can you
not understand the yearning of My Love? Can you not
make the effort now? Must I wait and wait and wait?
Must it be that each lesson you learn, each failure you put
behind you, each mistake you overcome, must require the
experience of great suffering before you can understand it?
Before you are willing to let go the little and manifest the
Great?
"DO not wait for the chastisement of many sorrows to
bring you to wisdom, to give you understanding. Nothing
holds you back if you will to go forward. Nothing can cling
to your robe or soil your garments if you make up your
mind to be clothed in My garments of Purity and Truth.
Therefore I say unto you, Come unto Me. Rest in the
thought that Love is mighty; that Wisdom is infinite; that
Understanding is transcendent; that this great storm of
physwal life which beats you hither and yon is but fleeting;
that the Greatness which is You can conquer; that you will
no longer be buffeted and tossed and covered with the dust
of ages, for you shall enter the banqueting house at your
Father's home where even now you dwell in your Soul con-
sciousness."
CHAPTER XV
THE LORDS OF KARMA
"In the beginning was God. From Him proceeded the Lord of Life,
the embodiment of the Divine Law, from beginning to beginning,
everlasting."Harriettt' Augusta Curtis:.
"The refusal to admit, in the whole Solar System, of any other
reasonable and intdlectual beings than ourselves on the human plane,
is the greatest conceit of our age."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky,
1, 157.
"Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatever a man sow-
eth, that shall he also reap."Golat(an:, vi, 7.
That which we know as time has many changing mani-
festations, aitho in reality there is but one eternal, change-
less now. In those early ages referred to as the infancy
of humanity, we are told that the Lord Christ walked in His
Garden and talked with man and taught him the great
mystery of creation and the great miracle of redemption.
As we have explained elsewhere,1 the Garden in Eden
symbolizes the pure, etherealized, super-physical body of man
through which the inner Spiritual Man, made in the Image
of God, must learn to manifest in this world of matter. It
was while his consciousness was functioning in that pure
ethereal body that man walked and talked or consciously
contacted the Divine. But later on, as man descended more
and more into dense physical conditions, he began to listen
to and follow the dictates of the physical desires of his
evolving animal body and mind instead of following the
dictates of the inner Spiritual Man.
The results of that disobedience to his Higher Guidance
exiled man from Eden. And we are told that an Angel
1 Ti., TrisS& Ak.iS Evt4s.Swis a,4 Si., Bibk, Curtu.
129
130 The Inner Radiance
with a Flaming Sword was placed at the four gates of Eden
to prevent man's return. In the individual this Angel sym-
bolizes the inner Spiritual Man whose Sword is the Shekina
or the radiant purity and glory of the spiritual or Christ-
consciousness which bars man's re-entry into the realms of
spiritual consciousness until he masters and uplifts the self-
ishness and desires of the flesh and once more listens to the
Voice of the Lord God, or obeys the Law of God given him
through his Inner Guidance. It is this Inner Guidance
which continually strives to awaken in man a memory of his
Divine Self and its spiritual consciousness. It also im-
presses upon him the sense of right and wrong, the failure
to follow which brings remorse.
Cosmically the four mighty Angels with the Flaming
Sword which guard the gates are the four Maharajahs or
the Four Lords of Karma who stand at the four corners
of the Earth as the Protectors of mankind and also as the
Agents on Earth of the seven cosmic Lipilca, the Adjusters
of cosmic Karma. "The Lipika . . . are the Recorders, or
Annalists, who impress on the (to us) invisible tablets of the
Astral Light, 'the great picture-gallery of eternity,' a faith-
ful record of every act, and even thought of man; of all that
was, is, or ever will be, in the phenomenal Universe....
As it is the Lipika who project into objectivity from the
passive Universal Mind the ideal plan of the Universe, upon
which the 'Builders' reconstruct the Kosmos after every
Pralaya (a night-period of the world), it is they who stand
parallel to the Seven Angels of the Presence, whom the
Christians recognize as the Seven 'Planetary Spirits,' or
'Spirits of the Stars," referred to in the Ritual for the
Spirits of the Stars of the Roman Catholic Church. The
four angelic Lords of Karma are therefore the Agents of the
Lipika to administer the decrees of Karma to this Earth and
its humanity.
a fuller aposition us, lbs chapter on Kar' l TM V.1ev .1 IsIs.
Curtis.. 124.
TI'Æ Secvø Decf,frs. IlavaIsky, 1, 130.
The Lords of Karma 131
We must never think of the Lords of Karma as Nemesis,
as Satan or as avengers or tempters, but rather as Divine
Beings who temper karmic justice according to the condi-
tions, strength and degree of unfoldment of each Soul; for
They have the power to hold back much of our Karma and
portion it out according to our strength to overcome the ad-
verse Karma or to enjoy the good Karma we have created.
Neither should we think of the Lords of Karma as
heathen deities belonging to some other religion, for They
are often referred to in our own Bible. Not only are They
the four great Angels who guard the gates of Eden, but it
is They who are the Recorders who keep the Book of Life
(Revelation, XX, 12-14) out of which all are judged 4ac_
cording to their works." Also in Malochi, iii, 15-18, it is
explained how sometimes even "they that work Wickedness
are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered"
until the Book of Remembrance is opened, whereupon each
receives his just reward. Having learned our lessons, "Then
shall ye return, (reincarnate) and discern between the
righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and
him that serveth him not." Without the Law of Karma.
giving to each that which is due him in absolute justice, God
must be looked upon as a capricious monster without either
justice or compassion. But understanding this Law, God is
seen to be a just, all-wise and compassionate Father who
treats us more wisely and lovingly than any human parent
could.
The only explanation which those who oppose the doc-
trines of reincarnation and Karma have to present is the
stultifying idea of a heaven of innocuous bliss for the good,
and the horrible, unjust, materialistic and soulless doctrine
of an eternal hell-fire for those who made mistakes. But
how much more like a loving Father who "would not that
any perish (instead of the great majority), but all have
eternal lifer' is the explanation given by reincarnation I
Under this law nl2nldnd, like disobedient children, have an
132 The Inner Radiance
opportunity to reap and experience the conditions they have
set up for themselves and otherseven through sorrow and
sufferinguntil they learn from their mistakes, instead of
being utterly condemned to eternal punishment and without
an opportunity to correct them and turn their evil into good.
For suffering of itself cannot adjust Karma. It can only
teach the Soul to recognize the mistake and therefore de-
velop the quality whose lack made the mistake possible.
World Karma, racial Karma, and the Karma of the com-
munity in which we live can to some extent be helped by us,
for we would not be in a nation or community where karmic
catastrophes were manifesting, if we had had no share in
creating them. Hence it is in our power to help to lessen
them and do something now to help others who are suffering
from them.
If we had to reap in this incarnation all the Karma we
have created in the last incarnation, there would be little
time or strength left to take up new lessons or advance
along other lines than those followed in the past. For
humanity as a whole, the Lords of Karma "fulfill the will of
the Gods (or Karma) by means of storms, tempests, transi-
tions of fire and earthquakes; likewise by famines and
wars."4 Nevertheless, in Their great compassion They por-
tion out to us as individuals only that which They see will
be best for us to experience in each incarnation, and thus
allow us ample time to interpolate those new experiences
which the exercise of our free-will may determine; that is,
those which are within the general limits of our karmic
destiny.
For humanity in general there are seven great classes, of
Karma, namely, world, racial, sub-racial, national, com-
munity, family and individual Karma, all of which are in-
extricably interwoven and in all of which the individual par-
ticipates as part of the various groups of which he is a mem-
ber. It is important that we recognize these classes of
4Th. Secret D.ctn.,e. Blavstiki, I. 313.
The Lords of Karma 133
Karma, else we are apt to grow discouraged when general
karmic conditions hold us down, aitho we are doing our
very best and cannot think why we have to participate in
them.
For the individual there are three general classes of
Karma, "Sanchita karma includes human merits and dc-
merits accumulated in the preceding and in all other previous
births . .. The actions formerly done, serving as seeds to
grow in the countless births; the store of former actions
preserved . .. That portion of the Sanchila karma des-
tined to influence human life in the present incarnation is
called Prarabdha karma... The actions of this incarna-
tion which give pleasure or pain in this life alone.
"Agami karma is the bodily actions good and baddone
after the acquisition of discriminative knowledge. It ex-
tends over all your words, thoughts and acts . . . as well as
whatever results your thoughts, words and acts produce on
yourself, and on those affected by them... Each action
may in itself be as slight as can be conceived, like the mi-
nutest filaments of cotton,such that hundreds of them may
be blown away by a single breath; and yet, as similar fila-
ments when closely packed and twisted together form a rope,
so heavy and strong that it can be used to pull elephants
and even huge ships, so the articles of man's karma, how-
ever trivial each of them may be in itself, would yet, by a
natural process of accretion, combine themselves closely and
form a formidable Pasa (rope) to pull man with, i.e., to
influence his conduct for good or evil."'
Before incarnation the Soul is aware of its own Karma
and what must be done to work out that portion of it which
is assigned to it in the new incarnation. It therefore works
under the direction of the Lords of Karma to prepare such
a body and such conditions as will afford the best op-
portunity to accomplish its main tasks and also learn its new
lessons in the new incarnation. The Lords of Karma should
S Ti... Tbcs,.påial, vii, 60. qacted in Cwusk Fir.. Bailcy. I, 470-I.
134 The Inner Radiance
therefore be looked upon as loving Helpers whose part it is
top man work out and fully learn the needed lesson from
every act, thought and experience. It is They who often
flash us a warning not to repeat old mistakes, sometimes
giving us a memory picture in dream or vision of a similar
event in the past in which we failed. Yet, since we can see
no outer reason for the feeling that we are about to make a
mistake, and have not been taught to listen to our Inner
Guidance, we often disregard and disobey these plain warn-
ings.
It is the Lords of Karma who may be said to arrange
events like stepping stones over which we may cross the
fierce torrents of our own disobedience and mistakes, that
we may reach the goal of attainment set for each incarna-
tion. Were it not for the inspiration and encouragement
of these great Helpers we would often return to our Father
empty handed and without having progressed, and so have
to go over and over the same ground again in subsequent
incarnations. For They are ever urging us on to overcome
obstades and redeem our mistakes and fearlessly face the
Flaming Sword, which for the individual is entrusted to our
Divine Self who will never let us enter Eden or even rest
until we have redeemed our mistakes and learned the lessons
necessary to manifest that Divine Self on Earth.
Since this Divine Self is made in the Image of God its
task is to evolve an instrument or personality which will
express that Image in the flesh. This great task we can
accomplish far more quicldy and harmoniously if we recog-
nize the goal to be attained and, under the guidance of the
Divine Self, take our Karma into our own hands and volun-
tarily work it out instead of compelling the Lords of Kanna
to force it upon us in sorrow and suffering because of our
refusal to admit it and our rebellion against it. This does
not mean that we should call down all our past Karma in an
effort to work it out quickly. To do so is to be overwhelmed
with more than we now have the strength to bear. We
The Lords of Karma 135
should simply recognize conditions as they are presented by
life and pray for understanding and help to master them.
If certain events in our Karma seem to repeat themselves
it is simply because we have failed to learn the lessons they
have brought to us the last time their problems were pre-
sented. We are like children detained after school to make
up our back lessons. The experiences of life point out to
us just how much or how little we have followed the Divine
Guidance of our Higher Self and built into our understand-
ing and character the vital experiences our Karma has
brought to us. For the cycle of each life is not a dosed
circle around which we go again and again endlessly, but is
a spiral path which as a whole is forever climbing, in spite
of little dips or relatively low spots here and there.
As the various points are reached on each round of the
spiral we meet the same tendency, urge or force that helped
us to conquer, or else we meet the dips or blank spots where
the lack of a certain quality or unfoldment caused us to
stumble and fallindividually, nationally, racially, etc.,
while on the last round. Yet each time we are on a little
higher level, from which we can see more dearly, and where1
because of even a vague memory of the past, we have the
fuller understanding and the greater strength gained during
the last cyclic round, so that this time when disappointment,
sorrow or temptation comes we con conquer if we will. For
now we can say to ourselves: "Aitho I have created these
experiences and failed to conquer them in the past, I know
that I have the help of the mighty Lords of Karma and the
strength of my own Divine Self and the Christ within to
conquer this time. But I must hold fast to the hands
(powers to accomplish) of the Christ held out to me and not
slip and fail again." For the Lord Christ is closest to us
in times of temptation and trouble. AU we have to do is to
open our hearts and ask His help, and then take His hand
and follow His guidance-
S 5 Ths Spud .1 LU.," The Mesa.g. 4 4qv.na Curtis.. 196.
136 The Inner Radiance
We must never blame the Lords of Karma for depression,
sorrow or misfortune or think of ourselves as the helpless
victims of the ebb and flow of a Icarmic tide which is a fate
that we cannot resist and which is bound to sweep us off our
feet. This is not true. When temptations come, when mis-
takes creep in, when failures seem immanent, we should
realize our own inner strength and the help that is ours for
the calling, and determine to conquer these things now, once
for all. After we have used this idea as a sort of talisman
to turn sorrow into joy, we can look back and see that we
conquered because we listened to our Inner Guidance, held
fast to the hand the Christ held out to us, and refused to
give up until the victory was won.
Karma is not merely an abstraction, but is a Cosmic Power
in the universe, the squaring force which upholds and
strengthens that which is destined to take place, both for
the Cosmos and for the individual. The destiny of the Soul
is the ultimate unfoldment of the Image of God here on
Earth and the re-entry of the individual consciousness into
Eden. but the Path which the individual chooses is left to
his own free-will. This is the vital distinction between
destiny and the erroneous doctrine of fate or predestina-
tion.
In the Path our Soul has chosen, the Lords of Karma
place those things which each particular individual must face
and experience in order to take his next step in progression
and unfoldment. To one is given poverty, to another riches
a very severe testto another insincere friends, or fame,
or disappointment, or an ailing body, etc. But all are needed
for the perfecting of the Soul to whom they come.
We should therefore recognize and thankfully bless the
Lords of Karma who patiently wait for us to recognize the
Law and accept Their help as the arbiters, adjusters and
fulfihlers of the Divine Law, which is ever adjusting all
things to help on man's spiritual unfoldment and perfec-
tion. We should gladly acceptas new opportunities to
The Lords of Karma 137
overcome, learn and advanceeverything which They place
in our Path of Life. For Karma should not be looked upon
as a punishment or even a burden to be borne, but as the
messenger of the King, who proclaims: "Behold, here is an
opportunity given you to bring forth that which the Lord
of Life has whispered to you as a possibility."
We should never say that we would do so and so "if we
only had the chance." We always have the chance, the
chance to accomplish the next thing, learn the next lesson
and take the next step that is the best for us. And in pro.
portion as we listen to our Inner Guidance and work with
the Lords of Karma, the way will open step by step. If we
see a step which our Inner Guidance plainly shows us must
be taken, yet which seems closed to us, let us look deep into
our own hearts and lives and see what it is in us or what u
lacking in us that prevents its attainment, not demanding that
it shall come to pass, but praying to be shown what it is that
prevents its manifestation or attainment; for our Path is
barred until we recognize and remove it.
As time rolls on in its ever-circling flight and we reach
a point where the Lord Christ is once more preparing to
walk in His Garden and talk with man, the great Lords of
Karma again bring to manlcind an opportunity to take a
great step upward and onward. But this step can be taken
only as man recognizes the great mistakes of the past and
helps to adjust their consequences. This he can never do by
denial or by shutting his eyes to obvious facts. Only by
recognition and acceptance of conditions can he master them.
We have detailed some of the cataclysms and
horrors which humanity must face and pass through in the
great karmic cleansing and readjustment which is now upon
us, during which the negative, destructive and other evil
forces will have great power and strive frantically, knowing
well that their day will be short. But we have also called
auention to the gathering of the angelic hosts who are the
TCi.si.g Wovid Cka.gs:. Curtlu.
K
138 The Inner Radiance
reapers of the good and whose spiritual powers will be
poured out upon humanity in such wonderful demonstra-
tions of the Shekina that even the materially minded will
have to acknowledge them. But when we sense this spiritual
outpouring or see this Divine Light reflected on Earth we
must not cry out: "All is well I Let us go with the crowd
and be happy lest we be a kill-joy." For all is not well until
the readjustment is finished and the force of evil has been
overcome by the power of the living Christ and His angelic
hosts. This is as true of the Karma of the individual as of
the seething turmoil of the world Karma of today.
Let all those who desire to work with His hosts to help the
Christ redeem the atoms of good set free by the crash of
empires, the sinking of continents and the wiping out of
whole communities and nations, put on the whole armour of
Christ,' lest the froth and foolishness of passing physical
pleasures and self-indulgence now being churned to the sur-
face under the name of enjoyment, sweep them from their
moorings. For we cannot pass safely through the terrible
days of cleansing with which the Lords of Karma must face
humanity unless we stoutly cling to that which we know to
be sacred; unless we persistently maintain our standards of
right and wrong, of personal conduct and morality, in spite
of being laughed tt as "old fashioned." The "fashion" of a
period, whether of clothes or of morals, cannot alter the
fundamental laws of life. To them we must steadfastly
adhere in spite of the riotous clamor of those who cry:
"Let us eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die."
For we know that we do not die. We onlÿ withdraw for a
time from the whirl of sensuous physical life, and later have
to come back and "pay the piper" for the mad dance in
which we have indulged.
AItho the events of life may be reviewed and their lessons
learned and great progress be made after we leave the physi-
cal, yet the karmic adjustment must be made on the plane
B es,.ç vi, 1447.
The Lords of Karma 139
where the causes were generated. And it is the Lords of
Karma who face us with the results of our past acts and
thoughts while on Earth that in meeting them this time we
may prove that we have learned the lesson by conquering
them and so no longer need to be tested by similar experi-
ences. If we have really learned the lesson the conquering
will be so easy as scarcely to be a test at all. This explains
why the same temptation will be difficult for one to over-
come and easy for another.
As we peer through the gathering mists of time and feel
the chill of the coming tribulations, let us realize that as we
open our hearts to the Light of the Christ and feel the glow
and warmth of His presence within us, His radiant aura
that enfolds us will prove an impenetrable, protecting "Ring
Pass Not" around us, no matter what may be transpiring in
the physical world. Within the sacred precincts of His aura
we again find ourselves "hid with Christ in God" in the
mystical Garden where the Lord Christ walks and talks with
us as of yore; where He whispers: "Well done, thou good
and faithful servant.. . enter thou into the joy of thy
Lord."
CHAPTER XVI
REDEMPTION
"I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye
present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which
is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world: but
be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove
what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God."Ronians.
xii, 1-.2.
"Therefore, if we sacrifice knowingly and willingly, the redenip.
tion is accomplished without the suffering which the crucifixion brings
about for those who resist and refuse to work with the Law."The
Key to the Universe, Curtiss, 141.
In a previous chapter1 we have tried to open in the hearts
of our readers the little door which admits them into the
spiritual consciousness where only the Soul-language is
spoken. And we sincerely hope that many have at least
glimpsed or felt the warmth of the vibrations from the
radiant Light which streams out from that little door and
makes a pathway over which, even in their physical con-
sciousness, théy'can ascend into the mystic inner shrine of
the heart. For there the Lord Christ waits for His children
to come unto Him and receive the blessing of His recogni-
tionthe crown of their livesand absorb the Divine Love
so freely showered down on all who come thus unto Him.
What' is the result of the absorption of the radiations of
this Divine Love and this blessing which has awaited us so
long, hidden in the inner chamber of the heart, but which
can fully bless and enrich the life only when recognized and
assimilated? For only those who persistently follow up the
first faint glimmerings of the Light on the Path which ever
1 Tls, Soul-I4NDI..ge, cbaptir III.
140
Redemplion 141
shines in the darkness of their outer lives, can find the little
door and ultimately enter the inner shrine and worship in its
holy precincts.
The result of the absorption of the radiations of the
Christ-force is redemption, both of the mind and of the
flesh. As we have already pointed out: "\Vithout this re-
demption, and' a comprehension of what is meant by Divine
Love, the student, no matter how much occult theory, fact
or knowledge he may store up, will still wander in the outer
darkness and never find or recognize his Father's face.
Once grasp this truth with Soul knowledge, not mere in-
tellect, and you will find that you have hold of your Father's
hand and nothing can ever separate you from Him, for the
Comforter has come who will abide with you forever. Only
thus will you find the key that unlocks all mysteries, that
overcomes sickness and conquers death, and that ultimately
places your feet upon the highest mount of attainment."
What then is redemption and how is it accomplished?
For centuries the materialists in religionthe literal inter-
pretershave taught that our redemption resulted from the
physical crucifixion and death of an innocent victim nearly
two thousand years ago. And our hearts have melted with
pity and our tears have flowed in sorrow at the terrible pic-
ture of the Crucified One hanging on the cross in bitter and
helpless agony. How our minds have revolted at the in-
justice of the conception of His having to pass through such
agony for us centuries before we were born! And how we
have secretly rebelled at accepting it! Yet in the past we
were almost compelled to accept it as "one of the mysteries
of God which we could not hope to understand," as we were
told. But in this New Age, when we are gradually proving
that "Nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest;
neither anything hid, that shall not be made known," the
enlightened mind and the awakened heart can no longer ac-
cept such medieval and materialistic interpretations of ens-
TAt Vowv of Isis, Curtias, 410.
142 The Inner Radiance
mic truths; for we are beginning to understand the angel's
words: "He is not here: for he is risen."
The literal meaning of the word redeem is to buy back,
ransom or release from bondage. The old theological doc-
trine is that all manldnd are in bondage to sin because of
Adam's fall of original sin. This was a mere theological
speculation which in time has become a dogma. But it is
essentially ridiculous in 'view of modern scientific investiga-
tions, even if we take Adam to represent all humanity and
not one man. We are, indeed, all under the bondage of sin,
but it is not the result of Adam's so-called sin, but of our
own, both in this life and in the past. In other words, we
are constantly generating and radiating emanations and vi-
brations of all kindsphysical, mental, pranic, astral,
spiritualby emotion, thought, word, deed, etc. And being
the creators of these emanations and vibrations, we are not
only responsible for them, but being magnetically en rapport
with them we must react to them and their results until we
have neutralized or redeemed them.
If they have been constructive and harmonious, as their
return waves come back to us our reaction will be con-
structive and harmonious and we will be happy, healthy,
joyous, etc. But in proportion to the inharinony, impurity
and destructiveness of our creations our reactions must
necessarily range fr6m mere inharmony to actual suffering
and even disease. We should remember that disease is not
a decree of God or a condition imposed upon us as a punish-
ment by something or someone outside ourselves. It is an
inharmonious manifestation of the life-forces generated be-
cause we have in some way violated the laws of health. Yet
every phase of disease was prepared for and the remedy
made ready by Nature and waiting for the time of its need
long before man incarnated on Earth. For nothing is lack-
ing on this planet for man's health, happiness and evolution.
It is only man's failure to asic of Gol for IJis guidance as
to how to find, understand and utilize that which has been
Redemption 143
prepared for him which keeps him from finding and niak-
ing use of the help which God has provided.
The Law of Manifestation requires that, "Whatsoever a
man soweth, that shall he also reap" and "One jot or one
tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled."
Thus do we suffer under the bondage of the inharmonious
creations (sins) we ourselves have sent forth, and also un-
der the collective creations of the race of which we are a
part and which we, in this and past lives, have helped to
create. And we must so suffer in and with the race until
we learn to transmute and thus redeem such creations. We
are brought face to face with such creations and given an
opportunity to redeem them, according to our capacity and
strength, by the Great Law as Karma, which "tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb."
But if we must redeem our creations and thus become our
own redeemers, why are we told that Christ is our Redeemer
and that we must cast our burdens upon Him? How can
the blood of Christ redeem the sins of the world? Or is this
a false teaching? Is it but a myth or an allegory? Can it
have been meant to deceive? By no means. This seeming
paradox is a cosmic reality, forever true in the life and ex-
perience of every awakened Soul. But it must be inter-
preted through the Soul-language in the light which streams
from the little door that opens into the higher or spiritual
consciousness.
The difficulty arises through a materialization of the
Gospel story and a failure to distinguish between the Cosmic
Christ-principle and the personality of the Master Jesus who
manifested an individualization of that Principle to a super-
lativ degree. This Cosmic Christ-principle is the Universal
Sun or Life or creative aspect or Son of the Godhead, the
source of the spiritual life of mankind just as the physical
Sun is the source of the physical life in all the kingdoms of
Nature. St. Paul makes this distinction very plain when he
speaks of his followers as little children uof whom I travail
144 The Inner Radiance
in birth again until Christ is born in you." Also Jesus said:
"Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his
blood, ye have no life in you. Whoso eateth my flesh, and
drinketh my blood, hath eternal life." Manifestly such state-
ments could not be made about any human personality, but
must refer to the Cosmic Christor Divine Life-force.'
The explanation of the paradox is that while man must
be his own redeemer he cannot accomplish his redemption
in his own strength or with his own unaided mortal powers.
He must call upon, correlate with and use the radio-active
power of the great cosmic current of Christ-force to accom-
plish the transmutation of evil into good, just as the plant
must call upon the actinic and chemical rays of the Sun to
transmute refuse and manurealso inert inorganic matter
into living tissue. Therefore it is literally the Christ-force
which redeems us, but only as we correlate with it and use
it and make it truly manifest in us.
While this Christ-force is universal and pervades all
kingdoms, unless man places himself en rapport with it he
can utilize it only unconsciously and therefore only to a
limited degree. But if we consciously strive to correlate
with it in our spiritual heart it will send the spiritual cur-
rents of the Christ life-force throughout our bodies and
minds and manifest' in our lives. This is the significance of
the passage in St. John i, 11-13, where the Christ-force
is referred to as personalized. "He came unto his own
(humanity), and his own (humanity as a whole) received
hini not. But as many as received (by correlating with)
him, to them he gave power to become (i.e., by transmuting
and redeeming their sins) sons of God (i.e., Initiates).
Which were born (the spiritual birth) not of blood, nor of
the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God."
It is, therefore, not enough for us merely to repent of
our mistakes and misdeeds and be forgiven; for we are for-
ou "Jciu' aM the christ" in Lsu.,, frms she cur.
Redemption 145
given seventy times seven. There must be a positive, con-
structive factor voluntarily introduced by ourselves if we are
to regenerate our ëreations and counteract their results; for
redemption is not a passive or mechanical process. This is
the vital distinction between forgiveness and redemption. If
we tell a dearly loved child not to play with fire and it
disobeys and is badly burned, even burns down the house,
we may forgive the disobedience and even shower upon it
more sympathy and love because of its suffering, but the
child must still reap the results of the disobedience until
the burned tissue is redeemed by the regenerating action of
the life-force. The redemption does not take place simply
because the child is sorry, repents and is forgiven, but be-
cause of a positive and reconstructive use of the life-force
in the body.
Just so is it in our spiritual life. When we sincerely
repent we are forgiven for our disobedience to the Divine
Law, but we must still suffer until our use of the infiowing
Christ-force (Divine Life) counteracts and regenerates the
results of our disobedience. Nowhere in the Bible are we
taught that the Christ can prevent the scar or the loss of
the burned house. Because of the Christ-force invoked
through prayer and aspiration the pain may be eased and
the burn healed more quickly, but it cannot prevent the
scar nor the ruin of the home. They belong to the outer
and material expression of life and must necessarily follow
physical laws. All such things are taken care of by the
action of the Law of Karma.
Today the redemption of the great mass of mankind is
being slowly worked out a little at a time, and with much
inevitable suffering, through the Law of Karma. Through
past ages even the more advanced have spent incarnation
after incarnation adjusting the Karma generated by their
ignorance of the workings of the Law and their willfulness
and self-indulgence. And why? In spite of the Law being
set forth in all ages in all the great scriptures of the world,
146 The Inner Radiance
we have found it hard to learn except through actually ex-
periencing the results. But he who learns to recognize his
shortcomings and corrects ihens at once or redeems as he
goes, needs no Karma to teach him. Hence, no karmic debt
can accumulate for him which, being so long deferred and
so separated from its causes that he cannot see the connec-
tion, often seems unjust.
In former ages it was difficult for us to accept our bur-
dens and sufferings without rebellion, because the workings
of the Law were not explained so we could understand
them, and we were asked to take it all on faith that some-
how it was just. But in these days of scientific discovery
of the modus operandi of the Law in Nature we see that
all things arc accomplished as a result of the specific action
of sulne law or laws. We can now understand not only
why the scriptural teachings are universally trueeven
though misinterpretedbut how the results are obtained.
We now see that redemption is not merely a religious
conception, but is an actual scientific process: the result of
the radio-activity of the Christ-force within us; a new inner
radiation of the Christ-love. But this process must be vol-
untarily set into operation by us if we would advance more
rapidly than the slow tide of age-old evolution. To light
our home we must make use of the electric current by
voluntarily turning th. switch. The power is waiting, the
wiring has been built in by the builder, yet both are useless
to us without our co-operation. So, while we say we
light the house, it is really the power of the current from
the central station which we utilize which lights it. We
merely use it by correlating with it. But if we refuse con-
sciouslyto turn the switch and insist on using only a tallow
candle, we must expect only candle light, aitbo all the
current of the power-house is available for our use once
we comply with its laws.
While we must turn on the Christ-light and be our own
redeemers, nevertheless we can only do so by utilizing the
Redemption 147
Cosmic Christ-power whose avenues of manifestation are
built into the house (body) in which we dwell on Earth,
and which is within us waiting to be utilized. The power
has always been there, but we must learn to turn it on and
utilize it. Therefore, just as the electric power-house bears
the strain and burden of the load we place upon it by our
use of the current, so bath the Christ-power literaUy "borne
our griefs, and carried our sorrows.. was wounded for
our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the
chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his
stripes are we healed."
Yet we must not look upon the Christ-force as a mere
mechanically generated impersonal power like the electric
curreqt. it is the outshining of the radiant currents of
Divine Life and Love of the celestial Divine Being, the
Ever4iving On; the mighty I Am Presence, within whose
Divine Aura we live and move and have our being, and who
gives freely of His Divine Life that we may have life more
abundantly.
This understanding of the Christ within and its manifes-
tation within us removes the objection of those whose sense
of jtistice is violated by the doctrine of an innocent man
suffering centuries before their birth for their mistalces and
misdeeds, and who refuse to aept such a vicarious re-
demption. It is therefore not Jesus- the Avatar who takes
our sins upon Himseifaitho of course He does suffer
because of the inharmonies we have set upbut the Christ-
principle within Him and us. For this is the Christ within
"Who his own self hare our sins in his own body. . . that
we (the personality) being dead to sins (i.e., being re-
deemed), should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes
we are healed. For ye (the personalities) were as sheep
going astray; but are now returned unto the shepherd and
bishop of your souls."
4jjsfgl., Ii 4S.
Z P.U,. u, 2jS.
148 The Inner Radiance
Let us then seek to correlate ever more and more fully
with this redeeming Christ-light as it shines through even
the tiniest crevices of the little door of the sacred shrine
of our hearts where our Real Self stands and knocks
patiently waiting for us to open that door that He may enter
into our consciousness and life and sup with us. Let us
stop making excuses for our failures or even asking for
mere forgiveness. Let us draw closer and doser to the
little door of the heart and ask that the divine illumination
of the Christ-light may grow brighter and brighter and
reveal to us our own shortcomings and wherein we fail to
work with the Law, that we may correct and redeem them.
Let all who truly desire to worship the Christ and who
seek for true redemption establish a definite practice of mak-
ing daily visits, in prayer and meditation, to this sacred
shrine of the heart where the angel of our Divine Selfhood
stands waiting to open the door of what has so long been
the tomb of our materialistic consciousness, and let that
Self come forth, freed from the grave clothes of our ma-
terialistic conceptions, out into the glorious day of spiritual
realization. For the Christ is crucified and hangs suffering
upon the cross of man's materialized conceptions until a
majority of Christendom has so enlarged its comprehension
that it recognizes that it must be the Christ-light radiating
within their owli learts which alone can accomplish the
miracle of redemption.
CHMrn XVII
RELIANCE
"Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the ar-
row that flieth by day; nor for the pestilence that walketh in dark-
ness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand
shall fall at thy side; and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall
not come nigh thee.' Psalm,, xcl, 5-7.
Amid the turmoil and unrest of present-day conditions,
in which all the inhabitants of the Earth are finding old
ideas, social conditions, forms of government and concep-
tions of life turned topsy-turvy, as though in a seething
caidron of some witch's brew, there must be something fun-
damental to which we can turn for assurance and comfort
while we wait in patience for the ultimate adjustment. Such
a fundamental basic principle, which is both the cause of the
unrest and its ultimate cure, we therefore lay before you
that its meaning may sink deep into your consciousness and
give you the courage to face conditions quietly and act un-
derstandingly during this period of darkness and unrest eve
the New Day fully dawns. For the world is not falling
back into Chaos, but is in the transitional process of taking
a most important and vital step on its path toward a per-
fected Cosmos. This change is now transpiring before our
eyes, and every awakened Soul has his or her part and lot
in its manifestation.
All who are spiritually awakened have grasped the idea,
as a fundamental truth, that there is a Divine Self within
us, a spiritual super-consciousness--our individual Ray of
the Christ-consciousness--which is inspiring our ideals, guid-
- 149
150 The Inner Radiance
lug our actions and gradually purifying and perfecting even
the atoms of our physical body, making it a glorious Temple
within and pleasing if not beautiful without, a fit dwelling
place for the Christ-consciousness. From the experiences
which the awakening of this understanding has brought, we
have learned fearlessly to face our old life, knowing full
well that the Sun of Righteousness as it rises will surely
drink up the mists which have hidden the Spiritual Sun from
us. Hence we can await in confident patience while the
dense mists of misunderstanding and the dank vapors of
selfishness that unfortunately befog the minds of mankind
as a whole are being lifted and absorbed until all finally see
the Sun itself.
The world is simply passing over, on a larger and grosser
scale, the same experiences which each of us who have
reached a certain degree of spiritual enlightenment have
passed over in miniature. In the individual the desires and
appetites of the lower self have each clamored for self-de-
termination, self-expression and independence. And before
the Soul has attained peace and harmony each has had to
have its hearing and be taught that, while each is right and
proper in its own place and for its own purpose, all must
learn to fulfill thel; own missions in such a way as to co-
operate in harzpony with the others, all working together
under the guidance of the Higher Self for the good of the
body as a whole. During this process everything that will not
work harmoniously, everything that rebels, that refuses to co--
operate in a constructive way, every evil tendency, thought
and desire, had to be gathered together and cast into the
burning for transmutation. This burning may be disappoint-
ment, discouragement, sicicness, bereavement, poverty or
other Soul-trying conditions, but after their transmutation
each shall yield its grain of gold.
While this was going on we might seem to be preparing
only a witch's brew into which we have cast all the loath-
some things hidden so long in the background and darkness
Reliance 151
of our life; all those things so wonderfully symbolized by
the witches of Shakespeare's Macbeth :1
"In the poison'd entrails throw
Toad, that under coldest stone,...
Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
Fillet of a fenny snake,
In the cauldron boil and bake:
Eye of newt, and toe of frog,
Wool of bat, and tongue of dog,
Adder's fork, and blind-worm's sting,
Lizard's leg, owlet's wing,
For a charm of powerful trouble,
Like a hell-broth boil and bubble."
If these lower tendencies are not controlled and guided,
but are left to the manipulation of "the witches three," they
gather together and brew and breed and bring forth greater
and greater selfishness and evil, just as the witches of Mac-
beth sought from the brew of everything loathsome to bring
forth a powerful spell of black magic potency.
How much better, through reliance upon the fire of Divine
Love, to brew a healing broth of divine realization that will
purge us of all inhaunony and evil! For under this pot we
have lit not the fires of hatred, envy and lust for power,
seeking thus to gain either advantage or control over others,
but the fire of Divine Love, that all that these things signify
in our own nature may be transmuted, that out of even this
seeming hell-broth there may be decocted the pure Elixir
of Divine Love and Wisdom.
Having to some extent undertaken this task of purifica-
tion and transmutation in our own life we are now called
upon to stand by and watch the bubbling of the brew which
"the Sisters three" are today mixing in the pot of the world
at large: for only we who have gathered in the "upper
lAct IV. Soens 1..
152 The Inner Radiance
chamber" of the Christ-consciousness, can see that the glory
of the Sun of Righteousness is already illumining our minds,
melting the hardness of our hearts, opening our inner eyes
and shedding its streams of healing blessing upon whomso-
ever cometh in His name. Only thus can we face these
dread Sisters undismayedwho in this sense are what the
world calls the three Fates who weave into the warp of Des-
tiny the woof of man's own creationsbecause we have
proved to ourselves, through the positive experience of reali-
zation, that underneath all the outward confusion there are
reaching out the "Everlasting Arms" of Divine Love.
We know that the angelic forces of light and truth are
only waiting to cast into the caidronwhen it has reached
the point of boiling where the mass is ready for transmuta-
tiohthe Philosopher's Stone which will transmute the en-
tire mass into the pure gold of truth and justice, peace, har-
mony and -righteousness. Therefore, "Let not your heart
be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Take fast hold of the
hand of the Father whose child thou art and realize that
not one sparrow shall fall to the ground without His know-
ing.
From out the great Womb of Time there come forth at
definite periods certain cosmic forces which, if there be
those who can recojnize them, correlate with them and mani-
fest them in their own personal lives, can be used to bring
about a great advance for all humanity. They can thus help
to purify and counteract the selfish and inharmonious forces
created by humanity which tend to prevent their manifesta-
tion. But if these cosmic forces are poured forth and there
are no enlightened minds, loving hearts and willing hands
ready to receive them they do not accomplish their mission,
hence are indrawn into their cosmic centers there to await
the next turn of the Wheel of Time. Such an outpour-
ing is taking place in the world today. How shall we make
ourselves ready to receive and utilize it?
The troublous times through which we are now passing
L.
Reliance 153
in these overlapping "last days" of the old and new cycles
were clearly referred to by Jesus2 who, as the Avatar for
the Piscean Age, the Alpha and Omega, left both a descrip-
tion of the conditions and directions for meeting them. He
also left with us the Comforter or the Divine Mother-
principle, with the assurance that this wonderful love and
comfort would abide with us "even unto the end," and that
during all the dark days so graphically foretold it would
bring all things to our remembrance whatsoever He had told
us. And today we can feel that Comforter hovering over
the world's chaos, drawing Her children to Her with invis-
ible cords of love. And through the lips of many Messen-
gers the words of comfort and the promises of safety that
Jesus left with us are being called to our attention and their
memory poured out like refreshing dew.
How clearly we can trace present eventseven prohibi-
tionin the prophecy given in the first and second chapters
of Joel! And those are chapters that all should study in
these days. But fail not to note and understand that through
all the dire calamities that are there foretold to come at the
end of the Age, there runs the most comforting promises of
protection and deliverance for all who "harken unto the
voice of the Lord" or who love the Lord or who call upon
Him for protection. If we realize that the word "Lord" as
used in the Bible means the great and divine Law of Good
or God's plan to bring to ultimate perfection all humanity,
we will understand that to "harken to the voice of the Lord"
means carefully to note and work with the Lord or the Law
of Good, realizing that all the underlying forces of evolu-
tion are working toward ultimate good; that to love the Law
is to live in a constant realization of and obedience to the
Christ-consciousness, both within yourself and in the world,
and to rest in the assurance of the divine indwelling mighty
I Am Presence, and fear naught.
s*. M.nh .211V.
2Sce Lcuo,,, Tb, C.asfovUr, Custu.
154 The Inner Radiance
To "call upon the name of the Lord" means to ask con-
tinually for the Great Law to work through and guide you
into that which is best for you, even in the little things of
everyday life. In short, it means that during these trying
times especially, it will be only through understanding, obe-.
dience, love and devotion that we will come safely through.
No amount of mere calling "Lord! Lord I" or talking about
our religious principles can help us. Mere lip service will
not avail; for that sort of outer religion and worship in the
world is already tottering on its throne and will ultimately
be cast down. The great Law of Protecting Love (the Lord
of Life and Love) is manifesting more strongly and ex-
pressing more definitely; is gathering the children of the
Father together from the uttermost parts of the Earth into
tht upper chamber of the higher consciousness and personal
re2l2ation of the Christ within, even as a hen gathereth her
chicicens under her wings when danger impends.
How then can we have all the wonderful promises ful-
filled for us and make the Great Love our shield and buck-
ler? How shall we be sure that we are not merely crying
vainly outside the gates, "Lord, Lord, have we not proph-
esied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils?
and in thy name done many wonderful works ?" only to be
turned away with the words, "I never knew you."4 The
answer is to recognize and correlate with the Christ within
and absolutely rely upon Him in all things.
To all you who feel within the urgent desire for a higher
life, a greater consciousness of the Christ within; whose
hearts are torn by the widespread inharmony and suffering
you see around you today and who desire to help better the
conditions of humanity, there comes as a guerdon of your
Soul's travail the assurance that within you is born the
Christ-consciousness which is capable not only of guiding
and protecting you, but of developing within you just those
powers and forces which are necessary to bring to you
4St. MiUÅ.w vU, 33-3.
Reliance 155
everything needed for your betterment, your evolution, your
ascension, that you may fulfill your part in the perfection
of humanity as a whole.
A guerdon' in one sense is a reward, but in another sense
it is a necessar' and inevitable result of sincere and per-
sistent effort. The degree to which this guerdon is actually
yours is determined by the efforts you make toward reali-
zation; the constant and persistent repetitions you make to
your rational mind until it responds and realizes the serious-
ness of your convictionsand from there is reflected and
acted upon by your sub-conscious mindof the reality of
the I Am-consciousness within you and of its power to
manifest in your outer life and carry you safely through
the turmoil of present-day conditions, if you will only act
upon this knowledge and permit it to manifest.
Sonic day into each heart this realization will suddenly
flash into flame. Some incident in our life may awaken it.
Perhaps we may come close to the gates of death and a
glimpse of the glory will shine through and leave its in-
delible imprint upon our consciousness. Perhaps some great
and terrible sorrow may come upon us; we may lose some
dear one; may suddenly have all our friends fail us or our
worldly possessions swept away. Then there will flash into
our consciousness the thought that all such manifestations
belong to the outer and transient phases of life and that the
only things really worth working for are the immortal reali-
ties of the Inner Life.
Then we will no longer think in a vague way that we have
within us this Christ-light and life and love, but will say to
ourselves: "Not only have I the Christ within me, but it is
illumining my intellect, warming my heart, vivifying my
whole being and radiating in streams of living power and ir-
resistible constructive force. And I must not allow the mask
of my personality to hide or impede it but must make it
express my Real Self, the Christ within." We should re-
Scs 'The Soul's Cuudou," The M.gs .f Aquad., CurtIs., 460.
156 The Inner Radiance
peat this again and again until we have gained something
of a realization of its truth, for it is far more than a matter
of mere affirmation; it must be a realization or be made real
to us.
While the power of the Christ is within us, it is not ours
consciously to use until we have realizcd it and endeavored
to give it expression in guiding our daily life. For no mat-
ter how much we talk about it, nor how much we try to
explain it, until through travail of Soul it is born in our
consciousness and bcgin.r to bring forth in our life it is not
consciously ours. But once the birth has taken place, once
the realization has been attained, we have touched a live
wire, we are standing on the third rail tapping a power
which, if we permit it to manifest, will bring to us what-
soever is needed,protection, peace, poise and plenty, plenty
of mercies and joys.
The protection will be against all that would interfere
with our real life; the peace of duty well done; the poise of
perfect balance of idealism and common-sense, the poise
that has not only said, "Not my will, but thine, be done,"
but that has realized that the Will of the Father is the ulti-
mate perfection of all His children. The plenty will be that
abundance of blessings promised to all who have gained
the true understanding of and obedience to the Great Law,
hence no longer need the lessons of limitation. As long as
we need them, limitations are a blessing, for only through
the lessons thus learned will we empty the earthly vessels
of our understanding and perverse personal will that the
golden vessels of our purified understanding may be filled
with the abundance of blessings.
Therefore, have faith in and rely upon the power of the
Christ within to both protect us and to guide our daily life.
If we listen continually for this guidance and obey we will
make ourself a center of peace, poise and power in our en-
vironment, no matter what the outer conditions. Then we
need fear naught, for "it shall not come nigh thee."
CHAn XVIII
THE GREAT WORK
'1Would to God.. . all men might become adepts in our Artfor
then gold, the great idol of mankind, would lose its value, and we
would prize it only for its scientific teaching."Eircnaeus Philaktltes.
"If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up. thou shalt
put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles. Then shalt thou lay up
gold as dust, and the gold of Oplur as the stones of the brooks."
Job. xiiii, 23-4.
During the Middle Ages, the science and learning of the
day was in the hands of a few advanced Souls called mys-
tics and alchemists, who, with inquiring minds, delved into
the secrets of Nature, and became enthusiastic advocates of
what they called the "Great Worlc?' This was commonly
understood to be the transmutation of the commonest and
basest of metals into gold. Although there are many rec-
ords which claim the alchemists actually produced gold, there
is not one of them who did not die poor; yet we are told
that they were the happiest of men. This was because they
looked upon alchemy not as a mere means of maldng gold
out of base metals, but as a means of demonstrating the
Great Work.
How was this cco ed1 And how was it that not
one, but many, gave up family, home, friends, and all that
man usually holds dear, and lived in poverty, even burning
their scanty furniture at times to feed the fires under their
retorts, and yet. that they should think so little of the gold
they produced and of wealth, that they died poor?
While it has been the modern fashion among a certain
ISce also Man and the EIcmentals,' Chapter XXI keren.
157
158 The Inner Radiance
class of narrow-minded scientists to ridicule the whole idea
of alchemy, and look upon such men as Hermes Trismagis-
tus, the father of Alchemy, Albertus Magnus, Thomas
Aquinas, Nicholas Flamel, von Humboldt, Cagliostro,
Thomas Vaughn, and many others, as either self-deluded
fools or unscrupulous impostors, nevertheless, the leaders
among scientific men today are already acicnowledging the
possibility of the alchemists' claims, especially since the
transmutation of radium into helium by Sir William Rain-
say in 1903.
All occult students, however, who are willing to look into
the past with unprejudiced eyes, and see behind the many
veils which successive epochs have thrown over the esoteric
trqths taught by the Initiates, recognize that in alchemy, as
in astrology and the great scriptures of the world, we have
to do with a mass of symbols, myths, and allegories, all in
their last analysis, illustrating the one Great Work, se., the
transmuting power of the One Divine Life penetrating mat-
ter, and through the slow process of evolution, transmuting
the base into the refined, the human into the Divine, bring-
ing all forms to their ultimate perfection, or transmuting all
into spiritual "gold."
For the individual man, this gold is the spiritual oneness
with his Fgthe-in-heaven, and for the Race and for the
planet, the Golden Age or the ultimate fulfillment of their
evolution. For the Great Work pertains not only to the
transmutation of metals, but also to man and the planet it-
self, with all its flora, fauna, and myriad inhabitants. In
short, alchemy seeks to explain through symbols and to dem-
onstrate through results, the theory of the One Life, and
how man can consciously work on with it to perfect both
himself and the lower kingdoms, far in advance of the slow
processes of unaided Nature and attain his ascension.
The Great Work was and is but the recognition by cer-
tain advanced Souls that man is indeed a microcosm, and
hence, like the macrocosm, must have within him the trans-
The Great Work 159
muting power of the One Life. Therefore, if he can learn
so to control this Power that he can direct it by his purified
Will, he can take his place as God's ambassador on Earth,
and become a conscious helper with God in the transmuta-
tion and redemption of humanity and the lower kingdoms.
For just as the Elohim said: "Let us make man in our
image, after our likeness," and impressed upon the human
kingdom the type of that to which it should evolve and mani-
fest, so must man consciously impress and uplift the king-
doms below him, as he has already unconsciously impressed
upon them his mistakes and inharmonies in the past, and
thus ultimately become their conscious guide and mental
sponsor. This is the great underlying truth beneath every
aichemical experiment
Just as the great alchemists gave up all that man holds
dear in physical life, and passed through the most rigid test-
ings and trials that they might strengthen their wills and
accomplish the Great Work, so must we be willing to give
up our minds and hearts and lives to the Great Work of
transmuting the base in us into the Divine. Through their
disciplined will and through meditation, the consciousness of
the alchemists became not only imbued with the power of
the One Life, but through the shutting off of all else, be-
came one with it, and enabled them to prove their premise,
i.e., that there is but one Divine Essence or God, and that
man is indeed made in His image, and hence can have do-
minion over, and even accelerate the evolution of, the lower
kingdoms and the so-called inanimate substances in the
Earth, as well as within himself. Thus can he overcome the
retardation which his disobedience and selfishness has placed
upon them. For to transmute baser elements into gold is
not to perform a miracle, but merely to accelerate the evolu-
tion through which they would have passed in the process
of time without man's help. This physical transmutation
was indeed a mighty demonstration of man's power, through
his purified will, to touch the border of Omnipotence, or the
160 The Inner Radiance
hem of the garment of the Christ, and achieve his ascension.
One of the by-products of the Great Work was the Elixir
of Life, and the history of the Middle Ages teems with mar-
velous stories of the efficacy of this wonderful Elixir; of
its possessors' living far beyond the allotted three score years
and ten, and finally leaving this Earth more as a conqueror
might retire from active work to take up private life, than
because either death or decay had laid hold upon them. As
we learn to correlate with the One Life of the Christ, to that
extent does it become our Elixir which shall purify and
transmute the atoms of our flesh and enable us to retain it as
long as we need to manifest on Earth.
The world collectively has advanced rapidly in intellectual
development since the days of the alchemists, and in its in-
tellectual pride, it seeks to sweep aside with the staff of ridi-
cule all the marvels of the ancients and accuse anybody who
has the temerity to avow his belief in transcendental prin-
ciples, of being "superstitious" and "gullible." The true
occult scientist, however, knows that all evolution advances
in cyclic waves with an upward and onward spiral move-
ment. That which has been shall be. And today the most
advanced scientists are reaching a point where they can grasp
the possibilities, of transmutation, and recognize the occult
law that that which man has accomplished in the lower arc
of the cycle and in the lowest and densest physical matter,
he must and shall accomplish at every step on the Path and
in all states of matter, even to the very top of the spiraL'
Some day man must reach perfection and stand at the apex
and have dominion over the Earth and all its kingdoms. But
in reaching that point, before he can unfold new faculties
within him, he must unfold and use those he already has, just
as a tree cannot unfold its two higher possibilities of flower
and fruit, until it has perfected its growth in root, trunk,
branch and leaf.
As the alchemist dominated the baser metals, and by the
2 S 'The Spiral of Life," The Mess.gs of 4qc.ne Curtis.. 196.
The Great Work 161
power of his will transmuted them into gold, so must we, by
the power of our will, conquer the baser aspects of the per-
sonal self, illumiie and spiritualize our present senses and
powers before we can expect to conquer the higher and more
ethereal forces and make them obey our spiritualized will.
The alchemist was able to do this because he recognized his
oneness with God and Nature, and then believed it so thor-
oughly and determinedly that he proved it, and by his will
was able to give to certain common and familiar substances
marvelous manifestations of the life-force.
The Law of Reincarnation applies to the rebfrth of ideas,
forces, and life-waves as truly as to Souls. And the world
today is entering, as an infant, upon a period of rebirth of
those old alchemistic days, but in a higher realm. Today we
hear much of using the power of will to bring us gold, or,
as the more common expression is, prosperity, health, and
freedom. But, like the many who sought to participate in
the results of the alchemists' labors, many seekers today fail
to attain their ideals because they do not realize that it is
often by the things we give up and the sacrifices we make
for an ideal that the force is generated which makes that
ideal take root and grow. Nothing can manifest the One
Life unless it is a growing thing, for the One Life either
brings about growth and evolution, progressing successively
through body, mind, and Soul, or disintegration and dissolu-
tion. This is equally true of ideas and of faculties, in short,
of everything. A thing must grow if it is to manifest the
One Life, and the faster it grows the more Life it mani-
fests, and the more Life it manifests, the more vital it is.
Hence, if we would have an idea or ideal grow within us,
we must cultivate it and water it with much loving thought;
for if it stops growing it is at once attacked by lower para-
sitic forces which will ultimately destroy it.
Many students recognize the possibility of spiritual gold,
and become very enthusiastic and desirous of accomplishing
the Great Work at once, They eagerly read the teachings
162 The Inner Radiance
and books on philosophy, and attend meetings and courses
of lectures, but when they are asked to pla their lives in
the retort, gather the fuel for the fires, and give up their pet
pleasures, their money, or even their worries, to tend the
fires, they quicidy abandon all real effort and say that spir-
itual gold is but an alchemist's dream; and their ideal be-
comes overlaid with frivolous ideas which, like parasites,
find in it fertile soil, and by their growth, sap its vitality
and disintegrate it. In fact, they are like the stony ground
of the parable. When the seed fell on it, it quicldy sprang
up, but having no depth of soil, it as quickly withered.
Therefore, unless we are ready to toil and make sacrifices
similar to those of the alchemists, we cannot expect to dan-
onstrate the practical results of transmutation and ascension.
In the Great Work, the mind has a large and important
part to play; for thought is the Mercury of the alchemists,
the messenger between Earth and heaven. The mind is
dual, consisting of a higher and lower ,nanas; but even its
lower aspect, the human intellect, has an important work
to do if we would make Mercury our messenger to lift us
up to God-consciousness. But the intellectual faculties must
be taught to obey our will, and must then be put to work;
for, between th Higher Self and the lower personality
which we would transmute into spiritual gold, there is a
great gulf fixed, and crc we can reach the farther shore,
we must build a bridge. This bridge is called the
aniaskarcna, which it is the work of the lower mind to build,
through a comprehension of the laws of divine manifestation
and a rli,2tion of its unity with the One Life. Hence,
even though the task may seem as hard as transmuting
the base metals, we must begin at once and set the mind to
work under the guidance of our will, for the bridge must
have its lower piers and abutments laid in the personal
self. Then, like all bridges, it can build out and out until
the chasm is finally spanned and the bridge firmly fixed to
the spiritual shore.
The Great Work 163
To start this bridge, we must determine that henceforth
we will think of ourself as a Spiritual Being; that like the
alchemist of old, we will make our life circle round one
idea, the idea that everything we find in our lower personal
self we will transmute into spiritual gold. We must not
strive to kills out anything we may find in the lower per-
sonality but simply throw it into the crucible and let the
fires of Divine Love and Wisdom transmute it Perhaps
our conditions in life may seem as dead and hard as a
stone, but even then be not dismayed, for the Philosopher's
Stone, which was the chief object of the Great Work, at a
certain stage seemed black and dead and lifeless. But the
wise alchemist, instead of becoming discouraged at this stage,
knew that its very blackness was a promise of final success.
Remember that just as the alchemists gave up all that life
held dear, not merely for a vague ideal, as so many think,
but that they might make a practical demonstration of the
power of will to correlate with and utilize the One Life
manifesting in all things, so must we today refuse to follow
the beaten path of a mere theory, but transmute the per-
sonality and demonstrate the Great Work in our lives.
Philosophers had, for ages, been teaching the theory of
transmutation, but the actual demonstration of the Great
Work had to wait until there arose some who were brave
enough and determined enough to prove it. We too can
demonstrate the Great Work if we follow the same law
of absolute faith, trust, purity, and humility. But we too
must study the laws of transmutation, and then resolutely
strive to put them into practice. We must prove on the
mental, psychic and spiritual planes, as well as on the physi-
cal, that things we have heard with our ears, seen with
our eyes, and believed in our hearts are not mere theories,
but are truths capable of actual demonstration. For we must
transmute intellectuality into the Pearl of Great Price, Di-
vine Wisdom; but to do so, we must be willing to sell all
that we have of personality, and follow the Christ. We
164 The Inner Radiance
must transmute every wave of psychic force that sweeps
over us, into the pure gold of spiritual perception, and
every glimpse or ideal of spiritual consciousness into a
realization of oneness with the I Am Presence within.
If the alchemists could overcome the resistance inherent
in matter, and triumph on the physical plane, we should
be able to triumph on all planes, for we have the strength
of their past experiences, since every victory won for the
Race is the heritage of the Race. We may not have the
technical knowledge of how to transmute metals into gold,
but we have their reservoir of will-power laid up for us
to draw upon, and we know that it will accomplish similar
results if applied with equal persistence and determination.
The Great Work, however, cannot be accomplished by one
whose mind vacillates from one phase of teaching to another.
We must be steadfast to the teachings or method of trans-
mutation we have chosen. Those who today are awake to
their possibilities must be the pioneers who shall lead their
more fearful and timid brethren across the Threshold into
the super-human state and worlds.
Modern chemistry is largely founded upon the laws which
alchemists demonstrated, yet because it refuses to reckon
with the One ûfe as a vital and living principle and has
left out of consideration the fact that man and Nature are
one and that through the power of an illumined will, he
can so correlate his consciousness with the One Life that
it becomes a quickening Spirit capable of accomplishing all
things, just as modern chemistry is unable to accomplish
physical transmutation, it fails to find the cause back of
chemical affinity.
This is the secret. This is why only those who recognize
their Art as a divine gift can succeed. In the words of an
ancient alchemist, "In the first place, let every devoted and
God-fearing chemist and student of !his Art consider that
this arcanum should be regarded not only aa a truly great,
but a most holy Art. Therefore, if any man may desire to
The Great Work 165
reach this great and unspeakable Mystery, he must reznem-
ber that it is obtained not by the might of man, but by the
grace of God." Students were also admonished to lift up
their hearts to God, and great stress was laid upon purity
and sincerity of heart, and a conscience free from all ambi-
tion, hypocrisy, and vice. They were counselled to overcome
all faults, especially those of pride, arrogance, boldness, lux-
ury, and all iniquities; for it was held that certain failure
would result if the Great Work were attempted without this
purification. While this Order does not believe in the neces-
sity for strenuous fasts, long prayers repeated by rote, or
other ceremonial observances, to bring about in the student
the right state of mind and attitude of Soul, still definite
efforts should be made to strengthen the will and make the
end for which he is striving more real and vital, altho
the danger of training the mind to depend upon ceremonials
and things to do is apt to offset the good derived from them.
We are living in an advanced age, and the One Life is
manifesting through more ethereal channels; hence less
physical methods of strengthening the will should be em-
ployed. The most helpful practice to strengthen our will
and hold fast to our determination really to make a practi-
cal demonstration of the transmutation of our baser nature
into spiritual gold, is to meditate upon Divine Love. We
should make this our Elixir Vitae, and teach ourselves, by
constant practice, to think of ourselves, not as erring physi-
cal beings, the helpless victims of all the vicissitudes of life
or what we call our Karma, but as immortal Spirits, one
with God and Nature, the middle link, as it were.
We should think of ourselves as a part of a great elec-
trical system drawing energy from one mighty Dynamo.
By turning a little switchthe mind, under the influence
of the willwe can connect ourselves direct to the main line
of force. Then by turning various other switches we can
control the current received and make it flow wherever we
$ Quoted b Redgroe in 4kmy. 4.
166 The Inner Radiance
will, and accomplish that which we will to accomplish. But
this can be attained only by continued effort and a deter-
mined holding to the one idea.
Many talk glibly of "ruling their stars" and drawing
everything they wish to them, but until we become spiritual
alchemists we do not realize that there is but one thing we
really want, i.e., to accomplish the Great Work and make the
ascension. Only too often by our very affirmations and will.
power we draw to us things which entail much suffering and
require the working out of bitter Karma crc we learn their
lesson and find out that they were not what we really wanted.
Hence we should meditate upon the realization of the Great
Work and then never cease our determined efforts until it is
attained.
We must realize firstly, that there is but one divine Cosmic
Christ-force manifesting through the One Life in all forms,
and that this One Life is the Soul of the World, the Christ
made flesh and dwelling among us. Paracelsus, in his Book
of Revelation of Hermes, speaks of this Soul of the World
as follows: "This is the spirit of Truth, which the world
cannot comprehend without the interposition of the Holy
Ghost, or without the instruction of those who know it. The
same is a mterious nature, wondrous strength, boundless
power.... By Avicenna, this Spirit is named the Soul of
the World. For, as the Soul moves all the limbs of the
Body, so also does the Spirit move all bodies. And as the
Soul is in all the limbs of the Body, so also is this Spirit in
all elementary, created things. It is sought by many and
found by few."
Secondly, we must believe in this power of the Christ to
accomplish the transmutation of everything in our nature
into pure gold. Thirdly, we must definitely determine that
since our spiritual evolution is the end and aim of our exist-
ence, that we will set about it at once and make its accom-
plishment the first and only real aim of all our efforts.
Fourthly, we must so order our lives that all we do and all
The Great Work 167
that we think shall work toward the great end which we
have set ourselves to attain, i.e., an unquestionable demon-
stration of the Great Work. The demonstration may not be
recognized by the world at large any more than was the
practical demonstration of transmutation by the alchemists
of old; yet each one who has made the demonstration within
will be the happiest of mortals, no matter what ridicule he
has had to meet or what hardships he has had to endure, for
he will have the spiritual gold to prove his success.
Above all, let us remember that it is only by the fires of
Divine Love and Wisdom, fed by an indomitable will, that
the black and base metals of the personal self can be trans-
muted, first, into the white sulphur or purified earth, then
into the orange of purified life and illumined mind, and
finally into the rosy glow of the perfect Rose, the symbol of
Divine Love and Wisdom made manifest and taking form
on Earth. In other words, the disciple must permit the
Flame of the Christ-love to permeate every atom of his be-
ing and make every fault and shortcoming not something to
be killed out, but to be transmuted into a necessary part of
his character, and take form around the Christ-center as a
petal in the Rose of his Individuality. But these fires must
burn pure and steady and continually or the Philosopher's
Stone will lose its virtue. If love be tainted with passion, it
becomes, not a purifying, but a consuming fire. If the fire
be permitted to cover itself with the deadening ashes of
selfishness, indolence, pride, or self-righteousness, or any
other cinder of personality, it will die out and the Great
Work will fail, and our ascension will have to wait until a
future incarnation.
CHAPTER XIX
KING DESIRE
"And they bad a king over them, which is the angel of the bottom-
less pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the
Greek tongue bath his name ApoUyon."Revelalion, ix, 11.
The Absolute, the One Eternal Truth, that which was and
is and ever shall be, expresses itself upon this plane of dif-
ferentiation through its three great attributes, the Divine
Trinity of the Godhead. This Trinity may be roughly de-
fined as Divine Love, Divine Wisdom, expressing through
intuition, and Divine Will, through which the fruition of
the Trinity is focussed and made manifest on all planes.
These divine attributes are the three Kings which should
rule the world and to which all must ultimately bow.
Back of th well-known allegory of the three Kings or
Wise Men, who sought the cradle of the Christ and laid
their gifts at His feet, stands this same great truth. This
truth was so precious to the sages of old that during the
dark ages of persecution they embodied it, together with
the fundamental truths of occultism, in what appeared to
be a mere game of cards, the Tarot. And the same truths
still appear in the modern playing-cards where the three
Kings have prominence.
The first King, Divine Love, is represented by the King
of Hearts. The figure of the heart is a conventionalized
representation of the caduceus, or the evolution and ulti-
mate blending of the two serpentsthe positive and nega-
tive aspects of the creative forcethrough Divine Love.
168
King Desire 169
The second King, Divine Wisdom, is symbolized by the
King of Diamonds, the shape of the diamond being an
exoteric and conventionalized representation of the inter-
laced triangles, or Seal of Solomon, a glyph which indicates
the riches of Divine Wisdom.
The third Attribute, Divine \Vill, through which Love
and Wisdom are brought to fruition, is symbolized by the
King of Clubs, representing the Father or masculine Prin-
ciple. The conventional form of the trefoil symbolizes the
Trinity, for this King must synthesize the power of all
three to bring to fruition Love and Wisdom, its lowest as-
pect being that which is brought forth.by toil and labor upon
the earth-plane.
These three Divine Rulers should reign supreme through
their perfect reflection in matter and should have their
thrones in man. In other words, man must ultimately
come under the sway of and swear allegiance to these three
Kings who worship forever at the feet of the Christ. These
Kings rule in man as human Love, Intuition and Will, but
Will, through man's disobedience to the Divine Law and
through his misuse of his free-will, has become a usurping
King who sets up the kingdom of his lower manifestation
in man as personal, material desire. Desire as a principle,
the desire to manifest and to attain the highest expression
of each manifested form, is one of the basic motive forces
back of all manifestation, but the selfish desires of the per-
sonality and the desires of the flesh so predominate over
the higher and unselfish desires in most people that it is
these lower material desires of the flesh that so often rule
as King Desire.
The King of Spades, whose emblem is a heart reversed,
symbolizes Divine Love (King of Hearts) which is so often
degraded into King Desire. The stem of the spade shows
that it sprang from the earth, and its color indicates that
it is Divine Love perverted. This King only too often
rules through the perversion of the Divine Trinity in man
'4
170 The Inner Radiance
by enticing man to give his allegiance to its lowest aspect,
sexual desire, when not illumined by pure love. Only as the
downward pointing spade of sex desire is reversed from ani-
mal lust to pure heart love, can it attain its highest ends;
for only then can King Desire become the servant of the
King of Hearts or Divine Love. The spade indicates man's
power to dig in the mire earth and undermine the founda-
tion of the Temple of the Christ. The fullness of the reign
of the Three Divine Kings on Earth is hampered because
of the misconception of their powers and the limitations
placed upon their manifestations by manthe opposition of
matter to spiritand through the opposition of King Desire
whom man has enthroned.
King Desire synthesizes the lower aspects of the three
Kings and through them rules the world. From the King
of Love he steals the golden sceptre and transforms it into
a rod of ironanimal lustwith which to thrust into the
mire the highest ideals of mankind, crush tender, loving
hearts and blast human lives. From the King of Wisdom
he steals and destroys the sceptre of intuition and in its place
rules throughthe powers of intellect, through mere reason,
plausible sophistries and what passes in the world for logic.
The King of Divine Will he dethrones and drags at the
wheels of hi's chariot which is driven by his henchmen Greed,
Avarice and Lust. hence the King of Spades or King De-
sire is called the King of This World. He is also known
as the Adversary,. Apollyn, Abaddon, etc.
These four Kings manifest on Earth in duality through
their feminine aspects, the four Queens, and thus bring forth
their various potencies and powers, which are symbolized
by the numerals of their progeny, the spot or pip cards.
It is the vassals of the King and Queen of Desire who
people the lower planes of life with all the manifestations
which we call evil, and it is these Rulers and their kingdom
which man must transmute, lift up and transform crc the
King Desire 171
Divine KingsWill, Love, and Wisdomcan manifest their
higher attributes.
There is a tendency in these days to ignore and deny the
reality of the King of Evil, to call him but a chimera of
mortal mind, a figment of man's imagination. Yet while
denying him, man still bows before him and pays him trib-
ute. The great task of man's spiritual evolution is to trans-
mute and lift up this power so the kingdom of his Soul
shall be ruled by Divine Will instead of by King Desire.
Man can never transmute and lift up a thing whose existence
he denies. He must recognize and conquer rather than ig-
nore and kill out this King Desire. Transmutation is a
definite process in which the substance to be transmuted
must be recognized, placed in a crucible and the fires lit
which shall purify and uplift it. It is a constructive process
in which that which is impure is purified and used as the
basis of a new product. Mere denial or negation is futile.
It is but a pushing away of the problem and can never help
the Soul take one step in the transmutation of the human
into the Divine, which results in Mastery.
Among advanced students there should be no misunder-
standing as to who this King Desire is or how he dominates
all flesh, for he and his Queen bring forth all the misery,
disease and death that can be traced to the perversion and
degradation of sexual desire in its various manifestations.
It is not that sexual desire is impure or evil in itself, for it is
essential in its proper place and for its proper purpose. It is
only its degradation to minister to animal lust and perver-
sion that turns it to evil ends. For man must grasp the
mighty truth that nothing that God has given can be evil,
but when properly used under His guidance is a blessing
and for man's highest good. When used as a gift of God
for a God-given purpose it can bring forth only good.
Whatsoever God has created and given to His children has
been given because it holds within it a mighty blessing which
172 The Inner Radiance
should and ultimately will be understood by His children,
even though many incarnations and much suffering is re
quired if they refuse to learn by precept and demand ex-
perience.
Every evolving Soul has felt the yoke of this King and
must know something of the results which allegiance to him
inevitably entails, such as sickness, premature old age, and
senility. Yet how powerful is his sway! How faithful
are his votaries! How tight is his yoke upon the necks of
his slaves! With what thongs does he bind his victims to
the wheel of the Law that descends into the mire of earthly
suffering!
This Order stands preeminently for the upliftment and
purification of the ideas of humanity with regard to the cre-
ative power, through a clearer understanding of its laws; for
the transmutation of sexual desire into an avenue for the
manifestation of Divine Love. Therefore to understand the
workings of this Divine Creative Force upon the higher
planes, we have but to tear aside the outer coverings of its
manifestations on the physical plane to grasp the deep spir-
itual realities back of them. Each must learn to seek back
of this force the manifestation of the synthesized power of
the Godhead expressed as Divine Love.
But this King Desire is not to be killed out, for killing is
not mastery, but just as he has usurped the throne of Divine
Will so must he be dethroned and take his rightful place as
the obedient servant of the three Divine Kings, for Desire
is the stepping-stone to Deity when we throw off its yoke
from our necks and place it beneath our feet, i.e., master it
through understanding (feet). As long as mankind is the
slave of King Desire, the Christ, the creative potency of the
three Divine Kings, is crowned with thorns and crucified.
The mystic Christ who is crucified is the Great Creative
Principle which must be brought forth immaculately through
Love, Wisdom and Will.
Therefore search your own heart diligently and see if
King Desire 173
while you are striving to climb the Mount of Attainment
to serve the trinity of Divine Kings, you are not secretly
paying homage to King Desire and permitting his polluting
influence to cling to your garments as you seek to enter the
holy Temple. For many who think they have killed it out
have only suppressed it, only shut it up in a dark closet of
concealment into which they enter from time to time and
feed it with their thoughts and sustain its power. For de-
sire when ruling as King is the enemy who sows thorns and
thistles in your garden while you sleep.
As a candidate for spiritual attainment you are professing
the name of the Christ. You are donning the pure white
garments provided by the Master of he Feast and are seek-
ing to partake of the Marriage Supper with the Christ. Can
you not see that if you hold allegiance ever so slightly to the
the world's king your marriage garment is false? You are
like one who is not a virgin coming to the marriage feast
under false pretenses. Your allegiance to the Christ must
be undivided and you must come with singleness of purpose,
just as a bride must give undivided allegiance to the bride-
groom in purity and love.
It is not, however, those pure and perfect Souls who are
born upon the mountain-top or who have never bowed the
knee to King Desire who behold the transfiguration, but
those who have passed the weary way through the Valley of
the Shadow of Death where King Desire reigns; they who
have laboriously climbed step by step to the mountain-top;
who have slipped and fallen again and again, yet who have
determinately and persistently turned their faces upward.
But if such do fail at times, much is forgiven them since
their aims were high and their efforts sincere. Only greater
strength was lacking. Even though the phantom of Desire
is dogging their footsteps as they climb, striving to turn
them aside from following Divine Will, still they cry:
thee behind me Satan, Saturn thou tester of my Soul.
Power is given to thee only to try mc, and I will not yield."
174 The Inner Radiance
Only such shall one day reach the Mount of Initiation and
there behold that this evil thing that has dogged their steps,
pulled them down and sapped their life has now become
transfigured into Lucifer,' Star of the Morning. And
through the dark folds of the outer garment which they
have grown to fear shall shine the glorious light of the
Shekina. The Light of the Christ-force lifted up shall
break from out the darkness and they shall know that they
have conquered through Love; that indeed the King of Evil
has been conquered and has sworn allegiance to the Kings
of Light, Love and Immortality.
Fear not to face the tempter. aimb the mountain, no
matter how dark the way, no matter how fierce the storms
of desire may beat, no matter how the call of the world, the
flesh and the devil may sound in your ears. Press on, no
matter how impossible it seems to climb, no matter if there
come days when you say, "What is the use of striving?
What is the harm in living free and enjoying life? There
is no end to evolution and some day, after I have fully grati-
fied the desires of the flesh, the desire of wealth, for love
and admiratioù, when I personally have found them all but
Dead Sea-fruit, then it will be time enough to seek for
higher things." But, alas, as long as you seek wealth, hap-
piness, companionship or love in the realms of King Desire
you are seeking among,the ashes of the dead for coals to
light your torch of- life. Leave it all behind you and climb
to the mountain-top and light your torch at the Sun of
Righteousness. There only will you find what you seek.
Only in the bright rays of that Sun is desiit transmuted into
Divine Will.
Every one upon the Path who stops to play by the road-
side or dance for a few idle hours in a wayside inn of the
mind or senses becomes a tempter for his comrades.
Enough if you would eat of the Dead Sea-fruit. Tempt not
your brother or sister. Discourage not those who are
I Sc. diapter. on Lnclfer In The Message of Aqwia. Carti...
King Desire 175
bravely climbing. Besmirch not .the garments of those
already dressed for the Feast. Let all unite in mind and
heart and Soul to throw off the yoke of the King of This
World. Let us refuse to eat of his black bread which brings
naught but disaster, sickness and death. Drink not from his
iron cup filled not with the bloodthe spiritual life-force
of the Christ but with the tears of bitterness and agony
shed by those whose hearts are crushed, whose homes are
wasted and whose lives are desolate, blasted by the worship
of King Desire.
Make desire subservient to the will of your Father-in-
Heaven. Thus shall you transmute the forces of evil brought
forth through desire into the powers of the Three Kings1
Love, Wisdom and Will. Then shall they reign in you and
make you an *ctive factor in the redemption of the Race, a
co-worker with God or Good.
CHAPTER XX
THE MYSTERY OF THE ELEMENTS
HYMN TO THE ELEMENTS
Earth, my Mother, bid me learn,
Truth in darkness to discern.
Like thy forces, silently,
Work in true humility.
Stream of Life unceasing flow,
Wellspring of the Christ bestow.
Fill me till I thirst no more,
Bear me to Thine eternal shore.
Air that blows from heaven's dome,
Waft me to my Father's home.
Whisper softly words of Love
To all mankind from God above.
Holy Fire from on high,
Enter in and purify.
Burn the dross and cleanse from sm,
Make me pure and true within.
Harriette Augusta Curius.
In a certain mystic ceremony a pertinent and everlasting
truth is revealed to the Neophyte in the formula, "Let the
earth and the water, the air and the fire be thy servants
to draw thee closer to the Heart of Love." Yet how few,
even among those who h'ave studied long and laboriously
within the circle of' accepted ones, have really drawn close
to that Heart! How few have even a conception of how
the elements can be made their servants, theirs to command;
ob6lient, trustworthy, capable! Remembering that the
Lords of Karma are the presiding Spirits of the elements,
and that the elements should help man in his great climb
176
The Mystery of the Elements 177
upward and onward, think what it means to have those
Great Beings as your servants! Yet this is a covenant
made with every acceped Neophyte. And it will be ful-
filled if he is sincere and faithful.
How shall we have these servants work? Shall we, of
our own free-will, determine and predict? Shall we will
to be pushed on by the good of the gods, or must we eternally
suffer crc we learn? Is it not possible for us to enter into
an appreciation of our great privileges and possibilities and
at once claim our heritage as "Sons of God"? If we have
heard those mystic words pronounced, or if we have invoked
the forces of the elements in the Silence, they will come to us
with the power and divine potency of the great Hierarchies
of Heaven. But if such an invocation falls on deaf ears;
if the forces come to one who, having invoked them in a
moment of ecstasy or unthinkingly, forthwith passes on and
forgets them, they will come again, but as an earthquake,
as a flood, as a whirlwind or as a consuming fire. Thus it
is ever with servants who are permitted to become masters;
servants whom, in our indifference and lethargy, we have
permitted to don the purple, mount the throne and hold the
scepter over us
It is our privilege to make the elements our servants to
draw us closer to the Heart of Love. How can we rule
these servants? The law is simple, plain and effectual, if
we but grasp it. Since the inner essence is the product of
Divine Life and Divine Love, he who works through the
Law of Love will find the elements his servants. In speak-
ing of the elements, we do not refer to the outer and gross
physical elements, although even they must ultimately obey
the inner urge when it is controlled by those who under-
stand and exercise their power over the inner essence, but
we refer to the Spirit of the elements, or the conscious in-
telligences in Nature which manifest through the elements.
The things which we perceive with our physical senses
are not the realities, are not the things themselves. They
178 The Inner Radiance
are not the things either to strive for or to avoid. They
are but limited and imperfect materializations of certain
aspects of the inner ideal or pattern of that which they strive
to manifest in the material world. They are merely sign-
posts set up for those who are spiritually unawakened to
indicate that back of the physical manifestation there is a
great Reality, just as we might set up a stake to indicate
that beneath the outward and commonplace appearance of
the earth there existed a deposit of gold. Let us, then,
take account of our powers and possibilities. Let us seek
the inner mystery, the power back of the elements. For
once understand that the Lords of Karma are the governing
Spirits of the Elements, and we will realize that it is not
the physical elements which bring to us our ills or blessings;
that bring the just compensation for that which we have
sown and the just retribution for that which we have slighted
or neglected, but it is a mysterious force connected with
them and ruled over by the great Lords of Karma, which
never fails to bring about the ultimate adjustment.
Let us begin with a study of the element earth and its
mystic possibilities. Many indeed realize the power of
Earth conditions to push them on, to bring them suffering
to be endured, lessons to be learned and experiences to be
garnered, but this is only one phase of Earth. The Earth
is a material aspect of the Great Mother, in the darkness
and depths of whose bosom the germs of all things are
nestling; those hidden things that we must ultimately grasp
and understand and use as stepping stones to ever greater
attainments. She is the mother of our physical expression.
But only as it is nourished by the Waters of Life from the
spiritual aspect of the Divine Mother can it aid us in bring-
ing forth spiritual fruhs in us.
And in our lives it is the power of this same Mother-
force, this darkness that is pregnant with the powers of all
the other elements, that brings forth in the Soul and mani-
fests in the character the germs that are hidden in the dark
The Mystery of the Elements 179
corners of our nature where we scarce dare look; germs of
good and germs of evil; the germs of our possibilities.
This is the mystic power in man which corresponds to the
element earth, the power of the Mother to bring forth the
unmanifested.
Each Soul has within him these mystic depths into which
the Light from the Higher Self must penetrate that this
earth element may become his servant to bring forth at his
command. Learn then to correlate with our possibilities.
And as we let the Divine Love enter in and bring forth
the hidden germs, if we find weeds springing up in our
garden with the flowers, pull them up at once lest their rank
growth choke out the blossoms we would bring forth.
To apply this practically, at every contact we make with
the physical earth, let our minds go forth in an under-
standing appreciation of what the earth is; that of itself it
is but a barren desert until moistened by water, warmed by
fire (the Sun) and breathed upon by air, but that when all
four elements are combined in harmonious proportions it
will bring forth all things.
Then let us realize that we also have the earth element
within us and that it must be moistened by the waters of
Divine Love and be purified and redeemed; for we have
helped to make it what it now is.
We should remember how the Earth was made, ic., by
the gathering together of the failures and leftovers of the
past,' transmuted by the mighty forces of evolution. Realize
that just as there is hidden within the bosom of the Earth
vast undeveloped powers and possibilities, so are there in
our element of earth if we )vill open our hearts to them
and correlate with the Divine Mother and bring them forth.
The element of water symbolizes the outpouring of Divine
Love, the "showers of blessing," the "dew of Herman" and
the "Water of Life" so often referred to in certain hymns.
For as water comes from heaven to refresh the thirsty
lScc Tb. Vow. of I,I, Curti.., 381.
180 The Inner Radiance
Earth, and sinking into its bosom softens the hard shell of
the seeds until by its aichemical aetion it bursts them asunder,
so must Divine Love descend from Heaven above. It must
be the outpouring of our Divine Nature and must sink into
the deep places in our lives and burst the outer husks of
the germs of our godlike possibilities which the Great
Mother has been hiding in the darkness of her bosom. For
only Divine Love can soften the hard conditions in our na-
tures and lives and bring forth to perfection the sprouts
of the Christ-life within.
Therefore, to make the element of water our servant,
meditate upon the reality of the Divine Love that is poured
out like water, expecting no return. Drink the physical
water often during the day, and every time a sip is taken
think of it as not only enabling the blood to dissolve and
wash out all the impurities from our bodies, but think of its
inner mystic potency as dissolving and washing away all
selfishness, unkind thoughts and all impurities in our na-
tures. Determine that we will correlate with the power of
the Divine Mother and wash from our lives everything that
is retarding the putting forth of our spiritual life, no matter
how hard and dark may be the conditions we find either in
ourselves or in our environment.
The element air representsthe Breath of the Spirit which
must move on the face of the waters of our lives. For
while Love, even in its physical aspect, is an aspect of the
Water of Life, softening, cleansing and purifying, still,
only as the Breath of the Spirit moves upon it and blows
from it the mists of selfishness, self-seeking and animal de-
sirethe determination to .be loved rather than to lovecan
the Waters of Life (Love) become the universal solvent
or Alkahest. Only when the Spirit moves upon the face of
the waters are we ready to say, "Let there be light," and
have the firein its highest aspect of Lightenter into
our hearts and lives.
Every school of occultism recognizes the importance of
The Mystery of the Elements 181
the breath, but it must be the real spiritual breath and not
merely the physical that. is inhaled, for no amount of mere
physical breathingexercises can awaken our spiritual facul-
ties. Only a realization of the mystic power of the air we
have herein set forth can make the breath our servant to
unfold within us the mystic life.2 In correlating with the
inner mystery of the air and making it our servant, strict
attention should be given to keeping the physical breath pure
and sweet and in not allowing it to become polluted with
the effluvia and impurities which should be carried off greatly
diluted or through other channels. Nor must the breath be
polluted by using it to utter unkind or impure words.
We should breathe deeply when out of doors, and as we
breathe in the air make it our servant to carry to every
tissue and cell in our bodies the spiritual as well as the
physical oxygen.
A good rhythmic exercise, in this connection, to take while
walking outdoors is to breathe deeply while you take four
brisk steps, saying to yourself the following words, one for
each step: "I breathe in life." Retain the air in the lungs
while you take the next four steps as you repeat: "God is
in me." Breathe out during the next four steps, repeating:
"I breathe out love." Hold the lungs empty during the next
four steps while you say: "I thank my God." Then begin
the cycle over again. This may be repeated for several min-
utes until you feel fully charged, not only with the fresh air,
but with the consciousness of God's life filling and over-
flowing through you to all you contact. In fact, recognize
that back of the physical manifestation the air is truly the
Breath of the Spirit.
Of all elements, fire, or the Flame, is the king, or, we
might say, the upper servant who controls and rules the
others. There is an old adage that children should not play
with fire. And if this be true upon the physical plane with
the outermost garment of this sacred element, how much
* Sec The Mystic L4', Curtu.
182 The Inner Radiance
more true is it when we enter the aura of the Divine Flame
itself and catch a mental glimpse, if not a realization, of
its surpassing radiance I For within each heart, and in the
midst of every life, there is a reflection of the Flame which
burns eternally upon the altar of the Most High. the great
All-seeing Eye, whose fiery glance penetrates to the inmost
secrets of the heart.
Hence they are no vain words that are used when we
invoke the elements. We cannot worship this Divine
Flame if we have not erected an altar of truth and purity
in our hearts and lives, for it is like a physical fire. Unless
the chimney is unobstructed, and we are careful to see that
the fire is kindled upon the hearthstone, the fire will be-
come destructive, our home will be burned and our most
cherished possessions consumed. This law is so well known
and fire is held in such respect that on the physical plane
no one presumes to take liberties with it, for while well
regulated it is a good servant, it is a terrible taskmaster.
Hence it takes little thought to understand that if fire can
be so disastrous on Earth, yet so useful, comforting and
cheerful when properly used, so on the higher planes its
proper use can be proportionately helpful and its misuse
proportionately disastrous.
To correlate with the Divine Flame realize that it is the
Radiance of Divinity shining in our hearts, the Jewel in
the Lotus, or the glow of the Spiritual Life-force surging
through our hearts; for during life a golden Soul-glow,
composed of myriads of dancing points of light, is focused
in the heart and shines jp the blood. But when the Soul
withdraws from thebody no trace of this fire or light can
be found and the bõ4y becomes cold and lifeless.
The forces of the elements should not be invoked care--
lessly. One of the saddest things in life is to see students
uttering the most sacred words and vows with little under-
standing of the forces they are invoking. Yet, beloved, no
Master, Being or God on any plane can give us that un-
The Mystery of the Elements 183
derstanding unless the Flame of Divine Potency has entered
into our hearts and lit the fires upon our altars. Perhaps
we come to worship at this holy shrine with an intellectual
receptivity for Divine Truth, perhaps eager to know and
understand, but with little realization of the underlying mys-
tery of its potency, hence the world finds little difference in
our lives.
On the other hand there comes into our lives many great
and unexpected trials. To one comes sickness, and the very
foundations of his life seem dissolved. To another comes
the stress of poverty, the loss of friends or physical disas-
ter, until he may think that there is some personal force
working against him and he blames the "evil powers" or the
"black brotherhood." But understanding the Law it is plain
to see that this is not the explanation. It is simply that he
has invoked the Living Fire, has invoked the Divine Ele-
ments and has asked that the Flame be his servantthe
Flame which on the spiritual plane is the great Eye of the
Eternal searching the Soul, and on the psychic plane is a
consuming fire, and on the physical plane disintegration of
old conditions, on all planes working as his servant to purify
and spiritualize his life. Therefore, unless we have made
preparation for the Flame by erecting an altar within our
hearts and placing upon it the things we desire consumed,
we must expect disaster. If we wish to bake bread and light
our fire upon the floor instead of beneath the oven, ought
we to be surprised if the house burned down and the bread
refused to bake and came forth from the burning but a
charred and blackeneçl lump of dough?
We hear many talk of the great sacrifices they are will-
ing to lay upon the altar: but have they fully considered
what fuel is needed to consume them? For, know well,
that when the Divine Flame touches our lives it becomes a
consuming fire unless we have prepared for it. And unless
we have laid the fuel so that it may burn steadily and in the
right place to consume our sacrifices, our whole life is sub-
184 The Inner Radiance
ject to conflagration. This generally begins with the physi-
cal body and physical conditions, especially when we invoke
the Eternal Flame to consume all traces of evil and impur-
ity. By every such invocation we place a match to the tin-
der, and unless we have supplied the fuel of love, obedience,
humility and childlike confidence, we may expect the Flame
to sweep over us and consume many things to which we have
dung in the past. But, beloved, it is not always necessary
or desirable that our lives should be made desolate or that
we should pass through such fiery trials to purify ourselves,
to test our sincerity and faith or to push us onward toward
our goal. Such conflagrations are the natural phenomena of
our invocations, as natural as the conflagration that would
follow if we lit a fire on the floor instead of on the hearth-
stone.
How then are we to invoke the Flame in our lives? Are
we to stand aloof because it is too dangerous? If we say,
"I will stay out in the cold for fear of the fire," we will find
the cold is death. First banish fear. Then boldly enter the
sanctuary of our hearts and face the Flame upon the altar.
When we have done this, like the three prophets of old when
cast into the fiery furnace, we will find the Christ walking
with us. To invoke this Flame in safety repeat the follow-
ing Prayer for Light on awakening in the morning and ere
you drop asleep at night, and many times during the day.
0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That I may dwell forever in the radiance of Thy counte-
nance
And rest in the light of Thy smile.
Visualize the descent of this Light as the beam of a great
searchlight pouring down upon you from above. See it
shine round about you in a great circle of Light, the "Ring
Pass Not" within which no inharmonious thing can pene-
The Mystery of the Elements 185
trate without being consumed by that Divine Fire. Then see
it illumine your mind, expand your consciousness and deepen
your understanding of life. Then see that Light illumine
your heart with its golden glow, sending an actual glow of
warmth throughout your physical body, purifying, trans-
muting and spiritualizing the very atoms of your flesh by its
spiritual radio-activity. Then think of the smile which the
Divine One turns on all those who tune in to His conscious-
ness through the aspirations of their hearts. And rest in the
joy of that smile.
Pray that the Light of the Divine, the Flame of Divine
Potency, be lighted in your heart, and as you go out into the
wozid, strive to become a Light-bearer. How often have
you talked of your desire to be Light-bearers! Yet you
have but lighted a lantern and walked along in the darkness
holding it in front of you for the world to see. Have
you ever walked in the darkness with the light of a lantern
shining directly into your eyes without stumbling? Yet you
go along blindly, thinking how the world sees your lantern
and is following you. But there is a more excellent way.
Make your personality the lantern and let your whole be-
ing become so transparent that the radiance of the creative-
ness of the Christ shall illumine you and shine forth. Then
you will no longer be holding up a lantern for the world to
see, nor will the light you are trying to show forth blind
your eyes and cause you to stumble. Then there will be no
more effort, no holding up of a lantern and weeping bit-
terly because the world gives no heed. "Let your light so
shine before men that they may see your good works1 and
glorify your Father which is in heaven."
Just go about your Father's business, each day accom-
plishing the tasks that are yours. Make your dwelling place
within the radiance of the countenance of the Christ, each
day doing the little things, bright eyed, dear visioned and
wsth a cheerful countenance, seeing the stones and ruts in
your path, but able to see how to step over or around them
N
186 The Inner Radiance
because the Light within your heart has become the Light
of your world, combining Love and Wisdom. Let the Light
of the Christ, the Flame of Divine Ecstasy in your heart
show forth its radiance in your life, then rest. Rest, know-
ing that even if you sleep the smile of the Christ is over
you, guarding and protecting you, even as a smiling mother
watches by the cradle of her babe.
Fire is a power which comes to Earth through the Sun,
but in you it is the Sun of Righteousness, the Christ-force,
which must be sent forth with such power that it shall de-
scend into the depths of your earth-conditions and carrying
with it the forces of the water and the air, bring forth your
divine possibilities. Fire was given to man alone of all the
crÇatures, and there is not a beast of the jungle which can-
not be subdued if you wave a firebrand in its face. This
is also true of the Beast which rules the jungle of earth-
conditions today. It cannot stand if you wave the Flame
of the Christ-light in its face. If each of you earnest stu-
dents will remember that this Flame is a power given you as
a servant with which to conquer and accomplish, and if you
will unite in its use, you can free yourself from the hamper-
ing physical conditions with which the Beast is fighting your
development and sticcess.
Every time you meditate, enter the Silence or turn your
thoughts to this Order, wave in the face of the Beast the
Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom and say: "We shall
be free! We shall be free 1 All hampering physical condi-
tions shall disappear, that both I and the Order may be free
to accomplish more perfectly our great mission for hu-
manity." $ This is an exercise in practical occultism of great
importance.
Do not expect the Masters to furnish material conditions
for the spread of the work. They will not; for it is within
your power to create them. The elements are your servants
to bring forth the crops of increase, the rain of plenty, the
'Pr.yes of She 0. . U., Curtis., 14.
The Mystery of the Elements 187
air of rejuvenation and the Flame of Divine Love and Wis-
dom. Therefore Dare to claim your heritage as Sons of
God. Do your duty as creators. And Keep Silent as you
protect the Flame from the winds of adversity.
Many of you have made great progress since you entered
the radiance of this Order. You have made progress be-
cause you have turned your eyes toward the Light within,
have forgotten your personalities, cast aside your lantern and
lit the Flame in your hearts, and like little children are nest-
ling in the smile of the Christ. This lesson is given you as
a staff in your hands, showing you how to accomplish. Re-
member that the gift of the Holy Ghost is the power to light
the Flame in your heart, to rest in the smile of the Christ.
Let each one make 'the above Prayer for Light his own. Re-
peat it day by day and hour by hour. For you cannot repeat
it regularly without its mystic meaning entering into your
consciousness and its radiance illuminating the dark places of
your own life, and that of the Order.
CHAPTER XXI
MAN AND THE ELEMENTALS
PART I. EARTH AND WATER
"The Elementals are the various orders of entitized nature forces
which, obeying the will of the Creative Hierarchies, bring into mate-
rial manifestation the details of the Grand Plan of the Universe. In
other words, they are the means by which the Divine Life-essence
expresses the ideals in the Divine Mind through form.... These
rudimentary elemental lives are the very essence of the physical sub-
stances themselves, and their life manifestations give to the various
forms of matter their characteristic properties."Realsu of the Liv-
ing Dead, Curtiss, 158-159.
"Man is composed-of all the Great ElementsFire, Air, Water,
Earth and Etherthe Elementals which respectively belong to these
Elements feel attracted to man by reason of their co-essence."The
Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, ii, 313.
Since man is a Cosmos in miniature, an epitome of the
universe, his body must contain the essence of all the ele-
ments of the Cosmos. And since the injunction "Man, know
thyself," is written over the portal of the First Gate on the
Path of Attainment, and since we must have some compre-
hension of its ignilcance ere we can intelligently follow
that Path, in this chapter let us consider how we should
strive to know ourselves in relation to the elemental lives
which go to snake up our bodies and which play such an im-
portant part in our lives, that we may learn to work in har-
mony with and rule them. These elemental lives differ in.
each human being, thus malcing each person a separate and
distinct expression of God and His forces and substance
which each one manifests in varying degrees.
The statement that man's body is made "out of the dust
188
Man and the Elementals 189
of the ground" means that the same elemental forces which
both fashion and compose the Earth also fashion and in-
dwell in his body. These elemental lives are far more than
insensate mechanical and chemical "forces of Nature" as sci
ence calls them. They are sentient atomic or electronic lives;
as sentient, if not more so, as the myriad living animal-
culae revealed by the microscope in a drop of water. "The
Elementals, the Nature-forces, are the acting, though invis-
ible or rather imperceptible, secondary causes, and in them-
selves the effects of primary causes, behind the veil of all
terrestrial phenomena."1
Again, we are told, "Nature-Spirits or Elementals of
countless kinds and varieties; from the formless and unsub-
stantiajthe ideal Thoughts of their creatorsdown to the
atomic, though to human perception, invisible organisms.
are considered as the 'spirits of atomi,' for they are the
first remove (backward) from the physical atomsentient
if not intelligent creatures. They are all subject to Karma,
and have to wÓrk it out through every cycle."2 "In general
they are divided into four great kingdoms, each under the
direction of a great Master belonging to one of the creative
Hierarchies (the Sixth). These four kingdoms are Earth,
whose elenientals are called Gnomes; Water, whose ele-
mentals are called Undines; Air, whose elementals are called
Sylphs; and Fire, whose elementals are called Salamanders.
Each of these four divisions is broken up into many races
and tribes, each with its own characteristics."3
Among the old Alchemists the necessity of recognizing the
various tribes of these living elemental lives and of work-
ing in harmony with them was well known and was given
due importance in the accomplishment of their Great Work.
And only as these living forces were first invoked and then
1 Th Scvef D.ctniu'. Blavabky, I, 170.
3 Ibid. Vol. 1. 241.
SRgsZp.0 of tk, Liviug Deed. Curtlu, ilL M.o look op "Element,ls" In
the niden ot "The Cuflsu Book,.' See she "The Great Work," (apIer
XVIfl beret,.
190 The Inner Radiance
made the servants of the alchemist and obedient to his will,
could he perform the great transmutation of base metals
of his lower physical nature into the pure gold of his Di-
vine Indweller. This is the true symbolic meaning of the
victory of Spirit over matter, the spiritual over the animal
man. The time is drawing near when there will be great
changes in the Earth and its forces, and as these Nature
Spirits or elementals will also be involved, it is wise for us
to know how to recognize, correlate with and control them.
Such recognition gives them great joy, and they are easily
controlled through kindness and love.
In certain mystic ceremonies the earth elementals were in-
voked and controlled under the symbol of Salt.4 Salt
symbolizes and is the vehicle for the forces of purgation,
purification and preservation, and without it neither the life
of man or beast can be sustained, the only animals which do
not crave and eat salt directly being the flesh-eaters of va-
rious kinds which obtain suflident quantities in their food.
In reality salt represents a radiant aspect of the Divine Life-
force which is necessary for the life of the planet, as well
as the proper development and maintenance of man's physi-
cal body, being necessary to maintain the fluidity of his
blood, etc. Since the Earth was prepared for the manifes-
tation of man, it lacks nothing that is necessary for his sup-
port, growth and perfection. All these substances are built
into the Earth by the earth elementals, but man must learn
to correlate with the elementals and thus more consciously
and harmoniously appropriate and assimilate the essence of
their forces.
Jesus says of those who manifest the Christ-force, "Ye
are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savor,
wherewith shall it be salted ?" One interpretation of this
saying is that just as salt sustains life in the earththe
earth being barren where salt is absent as surely as where
it is in excessso must the true follower of the Christ mani-
'See "The Symbol of the Salt" In The Vows of Ith Curtu. 386.
Man and the Elementals 191
fest the ever-renewing Spiritual Life-force in himself and in
the religion which he professesyet not over-salt them with
fanaticismor both his life and his religion will lose their
savor or that inner spiritual force which characterizes them
and makes them vital. For if kindness and brotherly love
fail in us then our mystical salt has lost its savor.
Like the Arabs, who sacredly consider as a brother one
with whom they have eaten salt, we should use the salt of
purity, spiritual oneness and the unity of thought to bind
us to our fellow men. In other words, we should so salt
our lives that they become vehicles through which the Christ-
force can draw all we contact closer to the Heart of Divine
Love. For just as the physical heart requires a definite per-
centage of salt in the blood to keep it so liquefied and fluid
that the heart can properly pump it to every tissue in the
body, so the Heart of Divine Love, which is the Spiritual
Heart from which all love flows and to which it must return,
requires the presence of all who recognize the significance
of the salt and who determine to be "the salt of the earth"
and not lose their savor, crc that current of Divine Love can
freely circulate and vitalize the body of humanity.
The earth elementals are, therefore, living forces of
which salt is but one symbol, namely, the forces of purga-
tion, purification and preservation, which lend their forces
to the earth, and the earth in return gives back to them the
essences on which they live. We must realize that the earth
is not mere lifeless material, but is charged with various
kinds of radiant energies, forces and lives, all of which are
built into our bodies. And since man is made in the image
of God he must ultimately become the Lord of Creation.
But to evolve to that ultimate attainment he must recognize,
correlate with and control the hierarchies of lesser lives in
his body over which he is to rule, and make them obedient
to his spiritualized will; for like all servants they will neither
obey nor work efficiently for an ignorant master. Man is
destined to become one of the Creative Hierarchies, and
192 The Inner Radiance
even now he creates both good and evil through thought,
aitho now more or less unconsciously.
"The Celestial Hierarchy (Sixth) of the present Man-
vantara will find itself transferred, in the next Circle of
Life, into higher superior Worlds, and will make room for a
new Hierarchy, composed of the Elect ones of our man-
kind." It is this Sixth Celestial Hierarchy which is now
ruling in the physical realms and from which man derives
all but his highest and his lowest principles, his Spirit and
body.
The earth elementals build into man's body the many tis-
sue or cell salts, a proper proportion of each being necessary
to bodily health and vigor, and these salts are the mineral-
ized aspects of corresponding spiritial forces which work
through them to purify, refine and spiritualize our flesh.
If we realize that these spiritual forces are universal they
can be utilized to help draw us closer to the Heart of the
Universe. And we will then understand something of our
relation with and what we owe to the earth elementals, for
the salts are informed and manipulated by them. This un-
derstanding should awaken in us both love and gratitude for
the unrecognized help they continually give us, and through
this love and understanding we can correlate with and rule
them more easily and completely than if we attempt it
through will alone. :
As we rule these forces within us in perfect harmony we
help to harmonfre and uplift the whole Earth; for the in-
fluence of our harmonized life radiates from us infinitely
in all directions and in all realms. When we learn to rule
one element in ourselves that element becomes our servant
whereyer it may be found. Hence, as we really know and
rule ourselves we also rule the Earth. When we reach this
stage of self-mastery we will recognize that because our body
is made of the same substance as the Earth or is "of the
earth, earthy," the currents of Earth magnetism and hf e-
$ Th. S,crtt Dadri.,. BIavs*zky. I, 242.
Man and the Elementals 193
force are flowing through us and charging us with physical
vitality or one aspect of the One Life which animates all
things, and without that physical magnetism and vitality we
are physically depleted, mentally negative, psychically open
to invasion by discarnate intelligences, and spiritually more
or less deficient.
The above is to be distinguished from those spiritual
night-periods of the Soul when nothing of Earth attracts
us; when we seem to be like a dying flower, no longer able
to drink in earthly joys, and everything seems dark and
cheerless. These are night- or winter-periods of the Soul.
But if the roots of our spiritual realization are planted deep
in the soil of truth and are watered with Divine Love, a new
day-period or spiritual springtime is as sure to follow as in
Nature and bring forth the blossoms of new spiritual unfold-
ment.
After we have reached a certain stage on the Path to Mas-
tery we cannot advance further until we recognize the rela-
tion of our physical body to the earth elementals and our
duty to them and to the Earth itself, namely, to radiate to
and permeate them with the higher mental and spiritual
forces which as Sons of God we should be expressing for
the help, uplift and advancement of everything we contact.
Therefore, every time we come in close contact with the
earth, whether lying, sitting or walking upon it, we should
quietly meditate and enter into dose communion with it, real-
izing that the earth is that aspect of the Divine Mother in
the darkness of whose bosom the seeds of all life are germi-
nated, and in our lives represents the inner Temple of Si-
lence, pregnant with the forces of all the elements, in which
the germs of all our godlike possibilities are nourished until
they come forth in our lives as blossoms and fruits of the
Spirit.
But without water the Earth is barren. And as we see in
the description of Eden symbolizing the perfected Earth,
ISec Tb. TrvAl. 4b.NS EvoJ.Sw .isd abe Bibk. Curtisi, Chapter IL
194 The Inner Radiance
also man's perfected and spiritualized bodygiven in the
Bible, the Lord (Law) never intended the Earth to be bar-
ren, for He made four great rivers to water the whole land.
And this clement is also made up of myriad lives. Man uses
water to quench his thirst, refresh him when weary, to
deanse and purify, to generate power, etc. Water symbol-
izes the love aspect of the Divine Mother, as earth does the
nourishing aspect; that which beautifies the Earth and in
man brings forth his spiritual qualities.
When man became fully materialized and he took the law
into his own hands and refused to let Divine Love flow
through his heart and manifest in his life unimpeded, the
waters of the Earth grew less and less until vast deserts ap-
peared, just as similar deserts appear in our lives for the
same reason. The myriad tribes of the water elementals
were grieved at being denied their former field of manifes-
tation and became more or less antagonistic to man, for
their chief instinct is to moisten the earth and help it to
bring forth, also to purify and bless man. Hence they fight
against the personal will of man and against the inhar-
monies and impurities with which he has cursed the Earti
and so diverted them from their mission. Therefore, only
as man correlates with and properly utilizes both Divine
Love and its physical symbol, water, can he make the Un-
dines his glad helpers and willing servants. Until he does
this the water will flow from his eyes as the bitter tears of
sorrow, suffering and repentance, and no permanent happi-
ness will be his. Hence we are told that, "Before the eyes
can see (spiritual realities) they must be incapable of tears,"
or the life must be so purified that tears of sorrow and suf-
fering will no longer manifest.
In the beginning "there went up a mist from the earth,
and watered the whole face of the ground," but after man
had cursed the Earth, many parts of the land had to sink
beneath the water to be purified,T so the waters were diverted
See "An tJndInea Propbecy" In ReaM, of ike Lw..g DwÅ, CUrtIS.. 174.
Man and the Eleinentals 19Ç
from their former relations to the land. And since that time
the proper re-distribution of the waters necessary to make
"the desert blossom as the rose" has been left to man and
so again became subject to his perversion and pollution.
And how often have we seen man use all his powers of
brain and brawn to impound the waters and compel them to
obey his will! When such works are conceived in the spirit
of true helpfulness and co-operation for the benefit of both
man and Nature, and constructed in fairness and honesty,
what a blessing they bring to the land and to those who till
and live upon it! They thus help to redeem the curse. Yet
when such works are conceived in selfishness and with the
idea of exploiting those who need the water, or when the
construction is dominated by greed, graft and profiteering
how often do such structures fail or the dams burst and
cause devastating floods which spread ruin and death over
the land! And since all helped to create the Race Karma,
many seemingly innocent ones must suffer.
The great flood which is mentioned in the allegory of
Noah resulted from similar causes of inharmony and im-
purity set up by the peoples of the early Races, and similar
results will always follow similar causes, varying only in
manner and degree. Noah, "a man after God's own heart,"
was commanded to build an ark which would ride the tur-
bulent waters in safety. Into it he took his family and all
the beasts, birds and reptiles that he could influence and
guide, and all were saved to re-stock the Earth. Noah, or
that which he symbolizes, still lives today, and each one who
can hear the command of the Lord (Law) and is willing to
obey, must build and perfect his ark (body) so that the
forces of all the lower kingdoms (elementals) may enter in
and ride out the storms of life in safety.
All such disasters could be avoided if man planned and
worked in the true spirit of co-operation with Nature and
with his fellow men, recognizing that the elementals, born
from the essence of Divine Love, can be controlled only by
196 The Inner Radiance
the law of harmony and love; for they obey only one who
builds his ark and fills it with the radiance of the Christ
and rests calmly in the arms of Divine Love. When a ma-
jority of mankind grasps this fundamental idea of con-
sciously working with the living forces of Nature then, and
then only, will the desert places of life blossom as the rose
and the four great mystical rivers which flow throughout
Eden become the foundation for a new "mist" which shall
water the whole Earth, not a physical mist, but the soft ra-
diance of Divine Love filling the hearts of men and result-
ing on Earth as a perfect distribution of land and water,
because of man's correlation and co-operation with the dc-
mentals.
To help accomplish this, every time we see water let us
think of the great power of Divine Love to bring forth in
us our highest ideals. Every time we drink let us sip slowly,
realizing that every sip of water adds just that much fluid
to our blood, thinning it and enabling it the better to carry
refreshment and nourishment to all our tissues and to dis-
solve and wash from them all impurities and wornout atoms,
and eliminate from our bodies all impediments to the flow
of the higher forces.
Then let us realize that we, like the elements, have a
mighty work to do in thr expressing of the Grand Plan of
Manifestation, which work we can accomplish only as we
work in harmony with the Law. While our personality may
seem to be but an obscure tiny life, one tiny drop of water
in the sea of humanity, yet it can be an avenue through
which the mighty stream of Divine Love can flow more
fully over the desert of physical existence to make it blos-
som as the rose. For some day all the desert places must
be reclaimed by the waters of the four great mystical rivers.
And aitho we may be but tiny drops we can bring cheer,
refreshment and help to all we contact. And as we grow
IFor detail. see The TraSh AboaS EvolaSsee ..d IA. Bbl., Curtiu, 97-101.
Man and Size Ele,nen:als 197
and flow and refresh and comfort, to that extent we help
the great streams of Divine Life and Love to redeem the
waste places of physical existence as irrigation does the
desert.
(To be continued)
198
CHAPTER XXII
MAN AND THE ELEMENTALS
Pwr II. Tu Aia1
"Fire, Air, Water. Earth, were but the visible garb, the symbols of
the informing, invisible Souls or Spirits.. .. In their turn, the phe-
nomenal subdivisions of the noinenal Elements were informed b7 the
Elementals, the Nature-Spirits of lower grades.... The intimate
connection of these Elenientals, guided by the unerring hand of the
Rulers, with the elements of pure Mattertheir correlation we might
call itresults in our terrestrial phenomena, such as light, heat, elec-
tricity, etc."Thc Secres Doctrizse, Blavatsky, I, 498, 17.
While the elementals which form the foundation of the
manifested universe fall into four distinct groups, Fire, Air,
Water, Earth, nevertheless each of these groups has its
seven subdivisions, and performs seven distinct functions.
As given by The Secret Doctrine, these functions are co-
hesion, fluxation, coagulatipn, accumulation, station and divi-
sion. Hence in each element there are certain tribes which
are specialized to perform each of these functions. For in-
stance, among the Gnomes cohesion has to do with the ag-
gregation of atoms into the various rocks and minerals;
among the Undines putting various substances into solution
and thus sorting them out from their former condition and
massing them together; among the Sylphs this is performed
by evaporation, which leaves behind a solid residue; among
the Salamanders cohesion is accomplished through melting
into a homogeneous mass; and so on through all the seven
functions. In this way the Earth, which was once a seething
Ztat1tbott rdu, 157-177, sho the refemaces to
Man and the Elemen:aLc 199
chaotic mass, is differentiated into its various aspects which
underlie the beauty and symmetry of Nature as we see it
today. Fire and Air are considered as manifestors of the
Father-force of the Godhead or the Progenitor, while Water
and Earth represent the Divine Mother-force or the Bringer-
forth.
As in Nature, so in man; for in man's body all the
constituent elements of Nature can be found, with their fun-
damental properties. "For instance, if man has a preponder-
ance of the earthly, gnomic Element, the Gnomes will lead
him towards the assimilation of metals . . . and so on."2
Hence, only as man recognizes that the elementals are the
forces chosen to bring about a perfect blending of the four
fundamental elements, and through his higher intelligence
correlates, co-operates with and guides them, through his
ideals and principles of life, can perfect health, beauty and
the true Image of God be expressed through his physical or-
ganism. For the Divine Ray from the Omnipotent Godhead
which constitutes man's Divine or Higher Self, in order to
manifest on Earth must be dothed in a body made up of the
four elemental kingdoms, after the manner of the Earth
itself, but with the vital difference that man is far more
than his body. The body is of the Earth earthy, but the
mind is a reflection from the Divine Mind in the Mental
World, with its seven realms, whose substance is pure
thought, while the Spirit of man is a direct emanation from
God Himself.
Because man thus contains the forces of all the four ele-
mental kingdoms, it is possible for hiM to rule the dementals,
first in his own body and then in the Universe. For once
his consciousness has been illumined by the Spiritual Light
of his Higher Self all the elemental forces automatically obey
him.
We can work toward this point of attainment by an
understanding of our relation to the forces of Nature, by a
2 The Sccr.t Docftas B1sv2tù7, 1, 313.
200 The Inner Radiance
deliberate choice and guidance of our thoughts, and espe-
cially through an inner determined seeking to know both
the elemental characteristics which predominate in us and
the ideals which our Higher Self is striving to manifest
through us and the lessons it is therefore necessary for us
to learn that we tread the path of our choice, make the at-
tainment and accomplish the object for which we incarnated.
Thus shall we be able to take our true place and accomplish
our part in the Grand Plan of the Universe.
Aitho in the earlier stages of our spiritual unfoldment
the elementals have much to do in shaping our personal
characteristics and affecting our emotions as we contact their
realms, once we have made the union with our Higher Self
the elementals no longer have any dominion or influence over
us, but become our obedient servants and willing helpers.
1n this brief outline of the elementals we have purposely
begun the study with the Earth elementals and proceeded
upward in the scale of vibration, altho Fire and Air are
the first to manifest in the formation of the globe. We
have done this in the hope that the subject would be more
easily grasped if presented in this way, altho to thoroughly
understand it, all that we have written on the subject, to-
gether with other supplemdntary reading, should be studied.
Each of the seven divisions of the Air elementals or
Sylphs is composed of countless tribes, each with its special
work to do. Every type of Air, from the soft summer
zephyr of land or sea to the devastating hurricanes, is sin-
cerely seeking to accomplish its appointed work. And as
we enter into the Aquarian Age, in which the Air will play
an increasingly important part, we will be brought into
doser touch with the Sylphs. We have already begun to
conquer the Air and make it our servant, but we are apt
to find it a very capricious, disobedient and dangerous serv-
ant until we truly learn how to take our place as God's
representative and rule all the elemental forces both within
and without. We will therefore try to explain certain fun-
Man and the Elementals 201
damental principles which should enable those who are work-
ing with or in this element to understand it more fully.
We must understand first that the Sylphs, while nat-
urally tender, gentle, pliable and rhythmic, are nevertheless
powerful, inexorable and extremely vindictive when antag-
onized or when their laws are violated. Hence they should
be treated much as we would treat a temperamental friend
who is known to have similar characteristics. The Sylphs
are more antagonistic toward man than the Gnomes or Un-
dines, because man has made them so. Not only does man
rend their element with the raucous and inharmonious
noises of modern industrial and commercial enterprisesto
say nothing of desecrating their domain with the shattering
roar of cannon, the bursting of shells and bombs, and also
by the fierce warfare in the airbut they are not accustomed
to have manwhom'they look upon as only in the infancy
of his development and a much later inhabitant of the planet
than themselves, and heretofore confined to its surfacepre-
sume to enter and traverse their domain.
The Sylphs are antagonistic also because man's presump-
tuous interferencethrough wrong breathing, impure think-
ing, vile or inharmonious speech, as well as the smells of his
impure emanations and effluviahas brought great inhar-
mony and destruction into their domain. It is well to re-
member therefore that whatever taints the Air or the breath
and makes it impure will bring corresponding suffering to
myriads of these elemental lives; for as part of their work
is to help purify that which is vileespecially that which
give off bad smellslike brave warriors in countless myriads
they must expend their very life-force in an effort to over-
come the evil and purify the air. And, what is worse, in
their efforts they may spread disease, poisonous gases, nox-
ious smells and impure air through the various currents of
air, storms, etc.
Often those who are sensitiveespecially to the Sylphs
or more or less psychic, suddenly smell a most obnoxious
0
202 The Inner Radiance
odor, aitho there is nothing present physically which could
produce it. This was most marked during the late World
War, for it is an odor of death and decay which ascends
into the higher air currents and by them is distributed around
the world. In these higher currents the Sylphs purify it of
all but its heavier residue which gradually sinks again to
earth, but so diluted that it is practically but an astral smell
and hence is recognized only by the sensitive. In the same
way the odors and perfumes of trees, flowers and plants
are distributed throughout the atmosphere and are absorbed
by all forms of life with constructive and helpful results.
This is one reason why astral perfumes are often smelled
by sensitives, aitho such perfumes often indicate the presence
of some spiritual Being whose emanations naturally have
"the odor of sanctity." This is one of the reasons why
we advise against the use of artificial perfumes.' Evil astral
odors can be dissipated and purified by prayer, song and
melodious sounds. The use of properly selected incense is
also helpful.
Aviators especially should remember not only to keep
the body in such perfect condition as to elimination of all
wastes so that the breath is kept pure, but should also keep
the thoughts pure, the emotions controlled and the temper
serene, especially never to use profane or vile language, es-
pecially while flying, even under extreme provocation. In-
stead, they should learn to commune with the Sylphs in a
friendly way both mentally and audibly when alone, either
by talking to them or by singing some rhythmic melody,
much as the cowboys chant by the hour td quiet their herds
when restless because of an approaching storm, and as sail-
ors are said to "whistle for a breeze." Since, "Esoteric Sci-
ence teaches that every sound in the visible world awakens
its corresponding sound in the invisible realms, and arouses
to action some force or other on the occult side of Nature,"4
*Th. K,y of Dejtu,y, Curt,,. 162.
4Th. Secret Doctri,,, BIavatalcy, Il, 451.
Man and the Elementals 203
the above is by no means as fanciful as it may sound to one
who knows nothing of Nature's unseen forces and whose
opinion is therefore of little value. Its truth can easily be
proved by putting it into practice.
It would also be well for aviators to realize that they
are entering a domain which corresponds in many ways to
thought or mental air whose currents, guided by living con-
scious entities, enter the brain of Nature to make itwhen
not perverted by mana mirror or materialization of the
Grand Plan in the Divine Mind. The Air corresponds to
thought for one reason in that it must ever be in motion.
Altho energizing every function of Naturefor all things
breathe or utilize oxygen in some form, save certain an-
aerobic bacteria which utilize other gasesyet it cannot be
confined for long and still retain its life-giving powers.
It must ever be in circulation, now penetrating the earth
to give life to the smallest seed, again reaching up to heaven
and drawing renewed life from the Sun, now entering the
lungs and being carried throughout the body of the tiniest of
creatures and of man, now circling through the Universe and
bringing back mysterious forces from unknown spheres. It
is Air, in its higher aspects as ether, electricity and even
Alcasha, that implants the mystic germ or vortex of life-
forcethe Christ-forcein all things.
Just as we breathe in the Air and through its control bring
about a perfect transmutation of our food into tissue, energy,
etc., so must we do with our minds; for thought is mental
Air, and in our higher bodies we must control and direct it
into proper channels or they will be poisoned. If we breathe
impure Air our physical body is poisoned and our mind
beclouded. Similarly, if we allow impure thought currents
to flow through our minds our mental body will be poisoned
and our mind perverted.
All elementals respond to certain rhythms, each class and
tribe having its characteristic vibrations, both constructive
and destructive. Because of this fact, through experience
204 The Inner Radiance
the very few persons who can contact the elementals con
sciously can tell not only which class of elementals is pres-
ent, but also when one tribe goes and another takes its place,
and even a particular tribal ruler can thus be recognized.'
Such elemental rhythms are often reproduced in the body of
the sensitive. They also appear in certain types of poetry
such as the so-called "bucolic" type. But the Sylphs are
especially responsive to sound, particularly of the voice and
all wind instruments which produce Nature notes.
Among the earliest representations of the Lord Krishna
one is as the Beloved, the Flute-player, whose breath is the
Divine and whose Flute is the Heart of Man. And among
the natives of India, especially among the hill-tribes of Sik-
kim, Nepaul, Bhutan and Kashmir, the reed flute has been
used with marvelous effect from the time "when God first
taught man to make paths in the jungles," not only to ex-
press the longings and emotions of the player, but also to
propitiate or harmonize the various Nature elementals and
to protect the player and his people. "The hill-flute sounds
in the still evening air from distant mountain-:Edes with an
indescribable wild-bird note, plaintive, questioning and, to
western ears, completely unresolved, which expresses per-
fectly whatever of .elemental sadness is in the forest."
Among the Lepchas of Sikkim there are three types of flute,
the lingbufeniam, the lingbunemia and the tolling. "The
oldest is the lingbufeniam, which is, in fact the original form
of the hill-flute . . It is handed down from father to son
as a treasured family possession and is naturally regarded as
the special instrument of the patriarch of the family . . . It
has the property of being able to protect him on a journey
in wild, unknown parts of the forest, where nature-spirits
have full sway . . . Different melodies are used for hills,
lakes and rivers."
It is well known to those versed in mystic lore that the
5See R,.ims of te Lni.g Deod. Curtiu. Cbapt. XIV.
Eck.e: of Hi.i.Ja F1vSes. Brown.
Man and the Elementals 205
vibrations of certain kinds of musicparticularly that pro-
duced by the voice and by wind instrumentscan not only
charm serpents, quiet both animals and man, but can also
dispel storms, dissipate and prevent diseasesespecially
those borne by the Airand prevent others from precipi-
tating out of the astral. In fact, there is in this country
today a steadily growing musical therapy being developed
for the scientific treatment of disease by music.
From the above we can see that it was not entirely the
ignorant superstitution of the Middle Ages which caused
processions of trained monks to pass through districts which
were stricken with plague and other virulent epidemics,
chanting certain specially selected airs, and while burying
the dead. Altho living in its very midst they did not con-
tract the disease.. This was, firstly, because of the tran-
quillity of their minds, owing to their harmony and faith,
which dispelled that fear which paralyzes all the forces of
man's natural immunity which normally protects him from
all disease, and secondly, because the vibration of the music
also the symbols carriednot only directly killed the dis-
ease germs through destructive vibration, but incited to ac-
tion certain warrior tribes of elementals which responded
to their rhythm and helped to destroy the disease. In fact,
in The Secret DoctrineT Madame Blavatsky tells us that
she was "saved thrice from death" through the occult use of
sound.
In certain temples in India a special class of priests are
trained to chant occult mantra in certain melodies to the
accompaniment of the vina, which have marvelous healing
and other magical properties owing to the elemental forces
largely the Sylphswhich they invoke. Such melodies
are considered as sacred, and their use is confined to a he-
reditary cast which is trained to understand the forces thus
invoked and how to direct them, as it is considered dan-
gerous for those who are not so trained to use them. In
TVoL I 606.
206 The Inner Radiance
this there is much of truth, for having been broulht up and
trained from childhood in this mystic science, their spiritual
and psychic development enables them to correlate with and
direct the elementals in the accomplishment of their mar-
relous results.
The above gives us a glimpse of one aspect of the scien-
tific processes back of the forces at work when music is
used in religious services. It is also one of the reasons why
music is used at all the healing services of this Order, es-
pecially the service used each day at noon when the great
currents of spiritual force are broadcast to all humanity in
all parts of the world. They are also especially focused on
those who have asked for the help of the Order and who
are mentally and spiritually tuning in to its radiance.
On the contrary, broken or syncopated rhythms, such as
the so-called jazz, are almost maddening to the elementals
particularly to the Sylphs and Gnomeswho quite nat-
urally retaliate on man by reproducing in him corresponding
vibrations which incite him to a wild desire for further ex-
citement and to a recklessness which may be carried to the
extreme of committing crime almost unthinkingly and be-
fore he is really aware of what the consequence will be.
Such crimes must be classed with those of "irresistible im-
pulse" due to obsession by disembodied criminals,' aitho
in the former case it is due to obsession by elemental forces
of the disharmony generated by man himself. In Nature in-
harmonious sounds nd syncopated rhythms add their de-
structive force to other forms of inharmony and evil created
by man, which ultimately find expression in all kinds of
storms, pestilences and even earthquakes,' for of all the
elementals the Gnomes and Sylphs are most readily incited
to destructive action by broken rhytlunic cadences and in-
harmonious sounds.
The Sylphs should be man's greatest helpers, or let us
$ See Rwiiuu of SÃo Lw,
'See The Voice of liii, 'Q.'z4J?11"
122.
Man and the Elementals 207
say upper servants, for one feature of their work is to help
implant in man's consciousness the great truth that he can
breathe in higher and finer ethers and spiritual and occult
forces for the purification and uplifting of both body and
mind. Hence these tiny elemental lives are forever seek-
ing to fan into Flame in his heart and life that Spark of
Divine Fire which must unite him to the higher worlds. Yet
both Sylphs and Salamanders are called the "devourers,"
because they ultimately devour or destroy all that hinders the
completion of evolution and the perfect unfolding and cx-
pression of the Divine in man. In some of man's misguided
philosophy fire and violent winds are related to hell, for hell
is pictured as a place of eternal flames and violent winds,
of weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, yet the
Sylphs and the Salämanders are the most spiritually help-
ful of all the elementals.
(To be concluded)
CHAPTER XXIII
MAN AND THE ELEMENTALS
P IlL Tn Fz
"Fire is the most perfect and unadulterated reflection, in Heaven
as on Earth, of the One Flame. It is Life and Death, the origin and
end of every material thing. It is Divine Substance."The Secret
Doctrine, Blavatsky, iii, 146.
"Tradition shows the celestial Yogis offering themselves as volun-
tary victims in order to redeem humanity.... This voluntary sac-
rifice of the Fiery Angels, whose nature was Knowledge and Love,
has been construed by the exoteric theologies into a statement that
shows 'the Rebel Angels hurled down from Heaven into the darkness
of Hell' "The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, ii, 257.
"Teach us thy magic 0 Day Star of Light,
That the seeds we have laid in the bosom of Earth,
Tho watered by tears through the pitiless night,
Shall, out of the sorrow, the cold and the gloom,
At Thy shining forth burst into mystical bloom."
Horriefle Augusta Curlier.
Although in the previous chapters we have tried to
give an outline of the Nature Elementals, the subject is so
vast and intricate that we feel we have lifted but a corner
of the veil. And now that we come to the Fire Elementals
we are confronted with a task that seems almost hopeless in
the space at ,our disposal; for before us we see veil after
veil to be drawn aside crc more than an elementary com-
prehension of this great mystery can be revealed. Indeed
we might say that here we find not only seven veils to be
lifted, as with the other elernentals, but seventy times seven.
Fire is not an Earth element at all. That which is known
on Earth as Fire is but the lowest and outermost covering
of the highest element, that which brought forth the mani-
208
Man and the Ele,nentals 209
fested universe. And it is this lowest and grossest aspect
which is manipulated by what are commonly called the Fire
Elementals, aitho its higher forms have corresponding
higher forms of elementals through which to work. It is
not surprising then that the very heart of all great religions
springs from the thought of Fire in one form or another,
from the worship of the Sun as its source and the adoration
of the perpetual Flame upon the altars of the Ancients to
the Christian statement that "Our God is a consuming fire."
And even today in the highest form of Fire, namely Di-
vine Radiance which is Divine Life or Spiritual Fire, it
still finds its place in our worship and is represented in many
symbolic forms. The gift of Fire, as represented in the
myth of Prometheus and the sufferings he endured as a
result of bringing Fire to man, is the crux of all the various
myths of the sacred Sun Gods.
The use of Fire, even in its lowest form, marks the line
of differentiation between the lower animals and man; for
all animals fear Fire, man alone controlling it as a servant,
yet even then with fear and awe of its avenging power.
"Fire is not an Element but a divine thing. The physical
Flame is the objective vehicle of the highest Spirit."1
The elementals which work in and manipulate the physical
Flame have very little consciousness on Earth, for their work
is to reflect the consciousness and manifest certain forces of
the higher realms. Hence they are the most difficult of all
the elementals for man to contact. They accomplish their
work by contacting and working through all the other ele-
inentals, all of which are their obedient servants when not in-
terfered with by man. Therefore, for man to make the
elementals his servants he must follow the advice given in the
previous chapters, i.e., from those of the Earth he must learn
humility and silence, that stillness which permits the Fire
from the Sun to be so tempered in the bosom of the Earth
that it brings forth her fruits. From the water he must
1T Secret Deetri.,,, BIavatÙy, LU, 389.
210 The Inner Radiance
learn unity, helpfulness and love, ever striving to forget self
that he may the more completely co-operate in God's Grand
Plan of the Universe. From the air he must learn to soar
ever upúiard nearer and nearer to Divinity. And through
all of these he must sense the Divine Fire. Then indeed will
the Fire fulfill its true destiny and express its inner life-
essence to draw us closer to the Heart of Love.
In the text heading this chapter the mystical sacrifice of
the so-called "Fiery Angels" does not really refer to angels
at all, but to a class of superhuman Beings who correlated
with the Spiritual Flame during eons of lives on other
planetary chains and systems, yet who voluntarily incarnated
upon this infant planet as Light Bringers to help on man's
evolution. And there are many such now in incarnation,
with varying degrees of realization and manifestation of
their mission. But besides these comparatively few very
advanced Souls, at the birth of each new planet there are
hosts of Souls who are so affinitized to the conditions that
planet will embody that they become children of the new
planet because in past lives of more ethereal states of exist-
ence on other planets or systems they practically created the
conditions which demanded a planet where greater density
of body and other conditions could manifest. Hence, such
a planet was created out of the left-overs of past systems by
thoughts and desires so dense that no semi-material planet
could express them. Hence .the Earth was created not as a
place of trial and cruel discipline where man was to be
forced into submission through suffering, but in obedience
to the Great Law "As a man thinketh in his heart so is he."
Yet even here every help was given and every provision
made for his advance Godward.
And when, through his experiences here, man is ready to
say, "Thy will, not mine, be done," this planet will shine as
a Day Star of living Fire surpassing all that have gone be-
fore. Just as the most precious jewels are formed in the
dark, hard conditions of the Earth, created by the fierce
Man and the Ele,nentals 211
flames that burn in her bosom, so will the divine Lord of
Life, when He cometh to make up His jewels, find many in
the darkest conditions where the fires of suffering have puri-
fied and made them fit for His crown.
The Fire elementals are tiny lives and centers of conscious-
ness which exist in different degrees on all planes and inter-
penetrate all kingdoms. Since Fire is life, there being no
life without some form of Fireaccording to science abso-
lute zero being the negation of both life and matterwe are
told that God, the Source of all Life, is a consuming Fire.
And since there can be no planet or realm where God is not,
the Psalmist was quite correct when he said: "If I ascend
up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, be-
hold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning,
and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; even there shall
thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me."
Heaven is the state or condition in which the flames burn
pure and bring healing in their wings, while hell has ever
been expressed by the Sages as the state or condition in
which the lower aspects of Fire, as a consuming Flame, de.
stroy the evil and make way for a higher aspect of Divine
Life. It is here on this Earth that the Fire elementals work
and where the so-called fires of hell manifest in their outer
aspect. Hence on the Earth-plane and in the lower astral
realms is the only hell, except as man creates a lower hell
by his belief in it and constant thought of it.
The lower Fire elementals are the emanations sent down
by the "Gods of the Elementals" to manipulate and manifest
the lowest aspect of the Flame in the chaotic conditions of
the fiery stage of the planet in which they dothe themselves
to do the bidding of the "Lords of the Flame." On Earth
they take form and can be seen, by those whose inner sight
is developed to their level, as the Salamanders who flit in
the flames. Aitho they possess but slight intelligence on
the physical planeby some they are said to have none-
mfr 8-10.
212 The Inner Radiance
nevertheless, because they interpenetrate everything, being
the spark of life in all, they contact all the different kinds
and grades of beings in all realms and so become aware of
at least the general vibration or trend of thought of man.
They are related to the sense of sight much as the air dc-
mentals are to sound. Just as through sight our feelings
can be aroused or we can sense the "feel" of an object
whether hard or soft, etc., and as through the sight of mov-
ing lips the deaf can understand the meaning of sound, and
by the sight of food the salivary glands begin to secrete and
we arouse the sense of taste, in a similar way the fire ele-
mentals vaguely sense the thoughts of man.
Through a peculiar form of transmutation the lower as-
pect of Fire becomes the life-germ or fiery lives which dwell
in every atom of our physical body and give it the warmth
of life. When these fiery lives leave the body it grows cold
in death, for the Flame of Life has been withdrawn. While
normally the fiery lives bring warmth, health and happiness,
they can also manifest destructively in the burning fever of
dread diseases of the physical body, while in the mental
world they burn as anger, passion and unbalanced love, all
of which burn up the heart. In the mental world the Flame
can also burn as altruism, philanthropy and love. On the
astral or desire plane it can burn destructively as intensified
earthly passions which seek to obsess and find expression
through weak or negative mortals, or, on the other hand, it
can burn constructively as ardor for helpful service to
humanity.
At the present time, the transmuting aspect of the Di-
vine Flame is burning throughout the world as a mighty de-
structive agent, fanned by the inharmony and evil of "man's
inhumanity to man" and the great lack of the constructive
forces of peace, harmony, brotherliness and co.operation.
In this connection there was recently given to the Founders
of the Order a prophecy from the King of the underground
kingdom of Agharte and called the King of the World,
Man and the Elementals 213
and as it has to do with the spread of the transmuting Flame
we will include it in this lesson.
PROPHECY FROM THE KING OF THE WORLD
"I see a great and devastating Flame sweeping the world
from East to West; a Flame of fire; a Flamt of sword and
famine, of anger and murder and bitterness and death.
"I see the peoples of the Earth, each one with its hand
lifted against its brother; each country seeking for its own;
men dying, dying and cursing God with every dying breath
and sowing the seed of new and more frightful Flames.
"I see descending from on high the mighty Angel with
the Flaming Sword, for only fire can purify hate.
"I see this Flame of Purification sweeping the Earth from
East to West, from the rising of the Sun to the going down
of the Sun.
"Five countries are left; the rest sink beneath the seas.
"I see a great mountain lifted up in the midst of the
countries which are left, and from its top there radiates
the Light of the Spiritual Sun. And I see the remnants
of mankind bathed in its Radiance.
"Five countries! Five lands like the fingers on a man's
hand! Foqr shall be great and one small, but out of the
smallest there grows the greatest Light; there comes re-
demption; there comes that which alone can make this world
to be reborn, once more human, like a babe laid in a man-
ger, cradled in its mother's arms.
"Think not that any country in this broad world can
escape. The Flame sweeps onward and over. Only those
who have the Flame of the Living Christ in their hearts
shall survive.
"I speak, for this is my world. Into my hands it has been
given. I stretch out my hand' and each finger represents
'The vision Is fuUy explained in C.u.uug Wacli CM.ges, Cueths, asp.
tsr IV.
214 The Inner Radiance
a point of force, a place where the great living Power of
the Sun has breathed in it the life (Fire) which is immortal.
"Where are my children? They are dying. They are
being murdered and starved. They are being scattered like
sheep on the cold bare mountain tops, homeless, friendless.
For a time I bow to the inevitable. I wait. I wait that a
Greater than I may read to you the riddle of this Dark Star."
As we have explained elsewhere,4 each planet of this sys-
tern has a Divine Ruler who is the manipulator of that as-
pect of the Divine Flame which animates the planet. Mark
well that such Planetary Spirits or Rulers are not to be con-
fused with the various astrological rulers or Regents. Each
of these Planetary Rulers is one of the seven-fold aspects of
the one Godhead, one of the seven Elohim or Angels of the
Presence mentioned so frequently in the Bible. They are
differentiated aspects of the one God just as the seven color-
rays are differentiated aspects of the one white Light, each
color being the ruler over the special functions it is to mani-
fest. The Divine White Light is the Flame which mani-
fested the Earth. The Earth is the youngest of the planets
and the latest habitation given to humanity to show their
ability to meet tests which they have never met before.
Out of the bowels of each Planetary Spirit comes forth
the substance with which to clothe the Souls specially chosen
through karmic law to be those whom we call the "children"
of that particular planet. There are many millions of Souls
who thus belong to this planet, who are real Earth-children,
whose Progenitor dwells within the most mysterious part
of the planet and is the guardian of the great mystery of all
mysteries. We call this Planetary Spirit their Progenitor
because it is through His force that they are assimilated into
the very essence of the planet and by Him breathed forth
imbued with the characteristics of this planet. These are
the Souls previously mentioned who so longed for a planet
of dense material conditions and bodies of like material.
'E.afly The Key S. She Umv,ue Curtiu, 2204.
Man and the Elemental: 215
They correspond with those today who are never satisfied
except with those things which they can see, handle1 dis-
sect and analyze with their physical senses.
141n view of the above we can now understand why the
destructive aspect of the Flame of Purification is spreading
from the East to the West and will ultimately sweep all na-
tions, each suffering according to the amount of inharmony,
unbrotherliness, antagonism and evil there is to be consumed.
We can correlate with the Flame and make the fire ele-
mentals our servants only as we strive to become one with
the Divine Fire of the Living Christ and willingly allow it
to burn from us all inharmony and impurity, all that holds
back the manifestation of our Real or Divine Self.
"Opce we have grasped the idea that the Flame consumes
only that which is evil or which must be transmuted to make
room for the Divine Life and Joy of those who fearlessly
face self and bravely strive to conquer all that is not in
harmony with the Law, then, like Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego, even though we seem bound hand and foot and
thrown into the midst of the fiery furnacethe flames of
purgation now sweeping the earthwhen the morning of the
New Day dawns we will be found walking free in the midst
of the Flame because the Lord Christ walks with us."
The above prophecy presents the picture as it stands to-
day on the Screen of Time, but we are told that for the
Elects' sake these days shall be shortened. Therefore those
who elect to hdp shorten these days should send out their
aspiration, love and compassion in constant prayer. If our
Prayer for World Harmony is used,' pause after each sen-
tence and meditate upon it, visualizing its radiance going
out to all mankind, consuming the evil and stimulating all
good. For it is only through softening the hearts of man-
kind, through the spread of the warmth of Divine Love and
the power of the Living Christ, that the evil can be over-
come and these days be shortened.
CcNIRWOVU Cb.s cns, U.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE REALM OF BE-NESS
'The Visible that was, and the Invisible that is, rested in Eternal
Non-Being.... This infinite and Eternal Causeis the Rootless
Root of 'all that was, is or ever shall be.'. .. It is 'Be-ness' rather
than Being.'TÅe Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 56 42
'SAnd he shewed me a pure river of water of life dear as crystal,
proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Larnb."Rervlatw,s,
xxii, 1.
in this age of transition many of the things once consid-
ered not only important to salvation, but absolutely necessazy
to the living of a so-called spiritual life, have been pushed
aside. Many, nevertheless, who truly desire to do right and
who, like the Wise Men of old, are as eager to find and
follow the Light of the Christ Star, search the heavens in
vain. No such glory shines out. No angelic voices resound
through the blackness of the night. In vain they wait for a
phenomenal proof that all these wonders, once accepted with-
out question, could possibly be true. Many are asking sadly
and sorrowfully: "Has the Star of Bethlehem sunk forever
into the dense darkness of this frivolous age ?" Others,
with a shrug of superiority, are saying: "We are past the
days when childish stories and fables can be accepted as
truth. Unless we can be shown something real and sub-
stantially true in religion we must make our own religion;
since we are no longer children we must not be content with
fable and tradition, but through understanding must formu-
late a wise and helpful concept of the truth."
As the festival of the birth of the Lord Christ approaches,
let us try so to understand it that we can wisely explain it to
all these hopeless yet heart-hungry unbelievers. As this
216
The Realm of Be-ness 217
wonderful Aquarian Age is slowly overshadowing the
former Piscean Age many, many are beginning to under-
stand mystical truths which they formerly saw only vaguely
shining out of the darkness caused by the overlapping of the
two Ages. Formerly we saw "as through a glass, darkly,"
but as the New Age emerges from the shadow of the old we
will "see face to face."
This is the season in which to study and meditate upon the
mystical truths of the wonderful Bible story; to "feed on
them in our hearts with joy and thanksgiving," and do our
best to live theni in our lives; for only through our heart's
realization can we wisely interpret them. The fact is that
our beloved Christmas story is indeed mysteriously true.
The watching shepherds, sitting humbly on the ground, sym-
bolizethose who, even though they do not know intellectu-
ally, yet believe, because they realize that this wonderful
story is to be mystically understood. The flocks they are
watching are the flocks of their own thoughts. The wolves
they are guarding against are the prowling evil thoughts and
desires of their own animal nature and the similar thought-
currents of the community. Because of their loving trust
in the Christ-power they are willing to sit patiently and
humbly upon the ground, but high up on the Mount of
Attainment where the night winds sing loving lullabies to
their hearts and quiet their grazing sheep.
To all such who are sincerely trying to do their best the
heavens open and bands of angels appear, singing, singing,
forever singing. Through all the ages of oppression;
through all the years of sorrow, of poverty, of human mis-
understanding, ever have the heavens of spiritual realization
opened and the never-ending song has been heard: "Glory to
God in the highest and on Earth peace, good will toward
men." But, alas, as yet, of those who know the truth in
their innermost hearts but few dare to proclaim it abroad
lest they be ridiculed. For as yet the Wise Men have only
begun to plan their journey to find the cradled Babe who
-P
218 The Inner Radiance
shall surely bring peace on Earth. But the Wise Men of
this Age must be scientifically sure; must journey over steep
and barren mountains and desolate deserts1 and explore
many deceptive, misleading trails, crc they can find the Child.
For today, although the Child is lying in the manger of the
heart of every one born into the world, for many it is still
wrapped in swaddling clothes of misunderstanding and mis-
COO1L
Today, alas, the so-called Wise Men are searching the
heavens, are exploring the atom and studying the relativity
of matter, space and time in their search for Truth. Yet
ultimately, as the Aquarian Age unfolds and emerges from
the shadow of the Piscean Age of ignorance of the masses,
these Wise Men will surely find the Christ-child and truly
worship at His feet. For they will find Him manifesting
where'er they sincerely look: in the mystery cradle of the
atom, in relativity and in the marvels of the inter-planetary
spaces. When thus found they will bring their gifts of wis-
dom and will bow down reverently in true worship be-
fore Him.
It must be these Wise Men who will help to teach hu-
manity to stop their childish quibbling over the literal mean-
ing of the words of the allegorical stories of the Bible which
were believed by the unthinking multitudes as physical facts,
instead of spiritual truths to be spiritually discerned. Thus
will those Wise Men who have given their lives to discover,
classify and find use for the minute hidden little things,
of which the great things are built, help to open wide the
door of understanding for the masses in the New Age, even
though they do so unthinkingly, looking only for a sure
physical footing on which their science can be based. It will
be such sincere and honest seekers for the ultimate truth
who will find His cradle in the atom, who will "strive to
teach humanity how to use its intellectual and magnetic
powers to redeem both its bodily inharmonies (diseases)
and also to redeem the Karma of its mistakes, thus helping
The Realm of Be-ness 219
to place its feet one step higher on the upward Path of At-
tainment."
In the search for truth science is approaching a realization
of the mystical statement that: "The Visible that was, and
the Invisible that is, rested in Eternal Non-Being--the One
Being."' While this was applied to the pralaya or period
of rest between two World Periods, yet during our evolution
we too must pass, in a lesser degree, through all the phases
of evolution that the Cosmos has passed, and also through
a similar pralaya.
In humanity, yea in every human being, as in the Cosmos,
periods of activity, illumination and understanding are
destined to follow periods of quiescence, intellectual dark-
ness, stupidity and spiritual sleep. Let us call such periods
Be-ness and Non-Being. By Be-ness let us understand that,
no matter how deep is our sleep of ignorance, still all the
vital facts and possibilities we are capable of ultimately
building in or attaining to are sleeping within the mystery
chamber of our hearts, waiting to be brought forth by our
own awakening powers.
Radium has always been hidden in the Earth, yet as far as
man was concerned it was as though it were in the realm of
Non-Being. Only when man had advanced to the point
where he woke up to its presence and its powers, could he
bring them into Be-ness and make them serve him. So it
is with the God-powers of life and health. While we are
children in spiritual understanding we cry to our Father-
God: "Give me life and health! Give me understanding!"
But when we grow up in consciousness, as many are now
doing, we begin to study the deeper mysteries of Be-ness for
ourselves, and begin to learn how to grasp and manifest
them. They are for us what "Non-Being" is to the planet,
"The visible that was" or our Spiritual attainments gained
in past lives, while "The invisible that is" is that which we
1 TA. Mess.9v of Aqrar., Curti.., 3$8.
2Th. Stauros .1 Drn, I. 7.
220 The Inner Radiance
are destined to unfold. But until we have awakened
spiritually to the New Age, as far as we can realize, both are
resting today in Non-Being. Yet as the mysterious call of
the New Age pulses through us we must turn Non-Being
into Be-ness.
What does this mean? We know that all the possibilities
of our unfolding powers lie concealed in Be-ness; that is,
for us nothing can come to pass that does not already exist
now, aitho it may be asleep in Non-Being yet it is capable
of being brought into manifestation as Be-ness. And we
will reincarnate again and again until we have brought out
of Non-Being into Be-ness and manifested, all the possi-
bilities of the Christ.child now wrapped in swaddling clothes
within us. This Be-ness is God-consciousness, which does
not manifest the same for every one, yet each one has a
phase of it to manifest, without which God cannot be fully
manifested on Earth as He is in heaven. This is one mean-
ing of the Word Shat was made flesh and dwelt among us.
The word that must be spoken in the heart of each one of us
today at the dawning of this New Age is, firstly, the recogni-
tion of our latent God-Powers. Secondly, it is the setting
of these powers to work, first within our own hearts, then
in our lives, then in society, that all shall begin to recognize
the God-ordained Path of Attainment, and feel the desire
to walk in it. In every human being, as in every age of
Brahma, there is a "Conscious Spiritual Quality. In the
manifested worlds, it is, . . . like the film from a Divine
Breath to the gaze of the entranced seer." $
One of the greatest desires of humanity has always been
to find a sure and absolutely definite way to heal all the
sickness of body and mind to which human flesh is heir; for
sickness so dulls and depletes man's powers that it must be
overcome if man is to manifest his powers of Be-ness. Al-
most every school of spiritual teaching claims to have found
the true way to health. Still mankind sickens and dies, and
Tb. Secret D.ctn.e. Blavatiky. I. 309.
The Realm of Be-ness 221
the cry of suffering humanity still fills the air. Yet we know
it would be quite impossible for the universal belief in spirit-
ual healing to have ever sprung into being, let alone persist
age after age, unless it was a divine truth. But, alas, how
many who thought they had found such a sure path have
long since passed from so-called life! Where are the former
great healers? Where are the healed?
Although spiritual healing is a divine everlasting truth,
yet we read of it as a surety only in the last chapter of the
Bible. "And he shewed me a pure river of water of life,
clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of
the Lamb."4 To find the Water of Life and use it to heal
all diseases we must find the "Throne of God." This can-
not mean to wait until we are in heaven, for we never can
be sick in what we understand as heaven. Our healing must
be now, here in tMi physical world. And until we find this
true spiritual healing we will continue to suffer from sickness
and death; yet every ill is but a text-book out of which we
are meant to learn a great lesson. Therefore, let us pod-
tively declare that there is a Path, a method of spiritual
healing, even though for most of us it is at present still
sleeping in the Realm of Non-Being. Yet if it Be, we can
and must find this Path as we find God within our hearts.
This Path leads directly into the world of Eternal Life. The
door to the Path is not necessarily the door of death. In one
sense it is death, yet a death only of those things which we
no longer need. Sorrow may endure for a night and sick-
ness may grip hard and try to overwhelm us crc it lets go,
but if we turn upon ft the River of Life, ultimately it will
cleanse us of all inharmonies and disease, all fear of death,
and fill us with Life Eternal. Eternal Life does not always
have to abide in the heaven-world afar from attainment by
humanity, but can be brought down to Earth and override
disease if we seek the right Path and have faith and believe.
As the New Age passes out of the shadow of the old, let
'R.vsI.SJ.'., xL
222 The Inner Radiance
us all look up into the clouds of glory that announce its
coming. There will we seeavisionof the Riverof Life
proceeding out of the Throne of God, the center of divine
Be-ness. Each one must realize that all things that Be are
meant to be deciphered and realized by every one who is
enough in earnest to seek in the right Path for the answer.
This Path leads within. It is hidden deep in the cave of
lost understanding and we must determine that we will find
it once more, and find it now. For as our consciousness
expands with the downpouring of the Christ-light and love,
as His Chariot of Fire draws near the Earth, all those who
are gazing steadfastly up into heaven, will have their mystic
inner vision expanded. They will then understand that there
is within them a Realm of Be-ness, in the midst of which is
the Throne of God, and there all things given them by their
Father, ere He sent them forth into this far country to
perfect their education, are safely stored away.
Many are beginning to dream vital dreams about the God-
powers that are awaiting only for their realization to be
manifested and used. To accomplish this we must awaken
from our lethal sleep of forgetfulness and ascend the Path
to the realms of Be-ness and bring these powers into mani-
festation. Let us seek until we find the life and health
where the Father has placed .it, namely, in the Realm of Be-
ness within our hearts. This is no more difficult than to
seek for an understanding of health and disease through
years of medical research and the study of the physical body
only. Even if the physical scientist fails to recognize the
Real or Spiritual Self who is the arbiter, guide and protector
of the physical body, we should keep that Self, our mighty
I Am Presence, ever in mind as it dwells in our Realm of
Be-ness, resting before the Throne of God, whence flows the
River of Eternal Life.
Let each of us solemnly and determinedly saý, again and
again, until it resounds through every fiber of our earth-
dulled consciousness: "I will arise and go unto my Father
The Realm of Be-ness 223
where I shall feast in joy and peace and health at His table
in His house, which is my true home. There He will give
me of His wondrous healing power and lead me into His
Realm of Divine Be-ness whence flows the River of Eternal
Life."
CHAPTER XXV
SATURN AND CYCLIC LAW
"Saturnone of the Sons of light manifesting as stern justice.
It is his part in the Divine Plan to further the redemption of
man by helping him to eat of the fruits of his own sowing and ex-
perience the bitter results that he may be ready the sooner to turn
from them and learn to seek the fruits of the Tree of Life.... Yet
he leads them in love, for it requires Divine Love for cue of the
Sons of God to accept a task involving so much misunderstanding,
ignominy and contumely as the guidance of evil to its own destruc-
tion."The Meuage of Aquaria. Curtiss, 320.
Cyclic law rules the world. Everywhere we see alter-
nating periods of outbreathing and inbreathing, of involu-
tion and evolution, of expression and withdrawal, or day
and night periods, periods of activity and rest. There are
cycles within cycles. Just as the cycle of the year has within
it the lesser cycles of the seasons, the months, weeks and
days, so the cosmic Cycle of Manifestation has within it
planetary cycles, racial cycles and individual cycles, yet it is
but the outgoing phase or current of Divine Will which
sweeps the whole divine Plan of the Universe into mani-
festation.
While the Law of' Manifestation is one law for all things,
nevertheless .it is modified and adapated to each and every
form of life in all God's universe. And as Nature is but a
reflected expression of a part of the Divine Plan, naturally
many aspects of the one Law are found in the so-called laws
of Nature. There is a law of the seasons, the tides, the
crops, etc. Each growing thing, each form of life, has its
own law which is adapted to its own cycle of life, a law
through the fulfillment of which alone it can reach the per-
Saturn and the Cyclic Law 225
fect expression of that detail in the mighty pattern of the
Divine Plan which is its destiny to manifest. So is it with
man. There is the law of the functioning of the various
tissues and organs of his bodyeach with its own aspect of
lawwhose harmonious expression we call health. There is
the law of mind, with its varied currents of thought and its
various reaction, emotions, etc. And there is the law of the
spiritual life, of spiritual growth, with its stages of unfold-
ment and its steps upon the Path of Attainment.
The Bible tells us that, "Till heaven and earth pass, one
jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be
fulfilled." Not one law in the universe, from that of the
stars in their courses, down to that of the tiniest blade of
grass: from man down to the microscopic amoeba, can pass
away until its manifestation has been fulfilled. Man was
sent to this planet to learn these laws, to co-operate with
them harmoniously and ultimately so to master them that
he can rule them and fulfill his destiny as the Lord of Crea-
tion. He was cast out of the Garden of Eden1 that he might
learn, not merely the ultimate, but also the "jot and tittle"
of their manifestation through experience, since he refused
to follow the divine guidance of the Lord God (Law of
God) and learn in any other way.
It is much like a young man studying some handicraft or
profession: it is not enough to know the general principles,
ihe ultimates, he must understand their application to the de-
tails of their manifestation. So must we learn and obey the
laws of the spiritual life, the laws of Nature, the laws of
the mind, and the laws of the body, and work harmoniously
with them all if we expect to reap health, success, happiness,
serenity of mind and spiritual unfoldment as the result of
our striving. If we learn this voluntarily through observa-
tion, study and intuition, we will save ourselves the pain and
suffering that come through the experiments which make up
experience We can either work with the law and hasten
lscc Ti., Tvtk 4bcsl EvgSuti.,s .J tk Bbk, Curtlu.
226 The Inner Radiance
its fulfillment in ourselves and in the universe or we can
work against it and retard its fulfillment and bring upon
ourselves the results of such retardation. God does not tell
us the details of just what to do or what not to do, but He
does give us His guidance, but we must learn to listen for
and follow it. Through incarnation after incarnation, age
after age, as we learn in one way or another how to co-
operate with the Law, all opposition or hindrance to its
perfect working will disappear and we will attain perfect
peace, poise and happiness and radiate them to everything
we contact.
One of the hardest phases of cyclic law to learn is that
which pertains to the dosing of old cycles and the beginning
of new. This aspect is that of reaping and testing. In the
cycle of the seasons this is the period of fall and winter
when the season's crops are garnered and their quality
tested; when the soft growth of the summer is tested and
condensed into solid wood by the icy grip of winter. In the
cycle of the day this is the night-period when the food we
have eaten is built into growth and repair; when the activi-
ties of the day are consolidated into the lessons of experi-
ence. In the cycle of our spiritual ongoing it is the phase
of testing which the Law brings about through the events
of life whenever we reach the end of certain cycles of un-
foldment. In the cycle of humanity and the planet it is the
cataclysmic changes which must be faced and passed at the
dose of each of the twelve divisions or Ages (2160 years)
of the Solar Year Ç2592O years) as our solar system enters
a new sign in the greater zodiac, just now the new sign
Aquarius.
At the dose of each cycle it is an aspect of Saturn, the
Judge and Tester, which manifests and rules and which
must be met and conquered or His decrees worked out.
Among the seasons this testing manifests as Winter, during
which Saturn is represented as reaching out with cold and
icy fingers in an effort to snatch from Nature its life-force.
Saturn and the Cyclic Law 227
In the cycle of the day this is the night-period, when we are
faced with the results of the day's activities and our con-
sciousness is withdrawn from the physical plane as the sap
of the trees is withdrawn into their roots in winter.
In the cycle of our spiritual unfoldment also Saturn mani-
fests as the judge and the Reaper. He is pictured as a
skeleton waiting to cut down the crops that man has sown,
the tares with the wheat: cutting down all false growths
and preparing them for the fires of purification. It is He
who makes us recognize and acknowledge the tares: the tares
of selfishness, unbrotherliness, of impurity, cruelty, etc.
For we could never learn how to reach up to Godhood with-
out this facing of our faults. There He stands, gaunt and
inflexible, the implaccable Judge, barring our entrance to
the next higher spiral of our Path2 until we have passed the
first great test of the Candidatethat of fearand have
dared to face Him and prove that we have gained the neces-
sary strength of character which makes us fit to pass on.
In the cycle of humanity He also manifests as the Judge
and Reaper, forcing nations to face themselves and reap the
results of their national and racial activities and creations.
For the planet He is the great Adversary whose rock-like
calm and inertia must be broken up crc the Earth can be
prepared for a new springtime of planetary manifestation.
Only those who know what Saturn is can understand.
For the past two thousand years humanity has been pass-
ing through the mighty day and night periods called the
Piscean Age, during which marvelous discoveries have been
made and wonderful achievements attained by humanity in
outer and material affairs. But the Sun of that day has
long since set, and the dread darkness of a spiritual night
has descended upon and covered the minds of men with a
pall of materialism, blotting out the bright shining of the
Sun of Spiritual Enlightenment and even obscuring the
Moon of Intuition. In earlier days, when mankind were
S S "A Mcmgs f,vm Satuzn" in Re.tju of the LiviNg Vlsi. Cnxtb*, 273.
228 The Inner Radiance
like ignorant children, this was a time of dread and horror;
for they believed in the power of the inhabitants of the
darkness and in the terrors of the invisible world. But those
days have passed and we have in a measure grown up.
Men's minds have definitely set about investigating that
which was formerly called superstition. Today science
leaves no problem, no matter how fearsome, uninvestigated
that its falsities may be exposed and its dangers rendered
innocuous or at least guarded against.
Today, as the new Age of Aquarius dawns1 humanity is
passing through the darkest hour which precedes the coming
day and is feeling the bitter chill of the newly awakened
dawn-wind; that hour when the Moon has set and the light
of the stars, which were so brilliant through the night, fades
out as they seem, one by one, to be withdrawn behind a dark
curtain, as though they had said: "Our vigil is over. Our
task is done. Goodnight." Then comes the darkest hour,
when all Nature is still with an ominous calm, as though
afraid of breaking the dread silence. This is Saturn's hour,
and this is the period when humanity must face Saturn, at
this particular time not merely as the Judge and Reaper of
the dosing cycle, but also as the Ruler of the first decan3
(700 years) or the Aquarian Age. It is therefore the duty
of those who would be wise to understand something of this
dread Tester and Judge so that as the New Day dawns we
shall see Him as He really is and He shall become the
Initiator of those who dare to face and conquer Him.
Aitho we must experience the power of !his grim specter
whether we wish it or not, like many things which seem
fearsome while in the distance or in the darkness of igno-
rance, understanding robs them of their terror. Since fear-
less investigation is a fundamental law of scientific research,
and since as mystics we are both fearless and as devoted to
the enlightenment and uplift of humanity as is science, let
us investigate this subject where physical science leaves off,
lSc. Tb. Mw.g, .f 4qw(. Cmiii.. 27.
Saturn and the Cyclic Law 229
i.e., in the higher superphysical and metaphysical realms.
We are told that there is nothiifg that is hidden that shall
not be revealed, and surely this includes the many mysteries
of life and consciousness which are beyond purely material-
istic analysis. Hence those who wish to sit at the footstool
of the Masters should so purify their hearts and illumine
their minds that they can enter into those inner conditions,
which though hidden are destined to be revealed, and grasp
something of the unseen causes hack of the outer manifesta-
tions; causes that are beyond the ken of the materialistic
mind, no matter how scientific.
Saturn has been vilified by mythologists and astologers
for ages and His influence has been blamed for a large pro-
portion of the ills that afflict mankind, yet were it not- for the
testings of Saturn, the supposed opponent and adversary of
man and the so-called antitype of God, it would be impos-
sible for man to condense his forces and consolidate his
gains into the inherent strength of character necessary for
his upward climb. Therefore, it is necessary that we meet
Saturn at eyery turn in the upward circling of our Spiral
of Life. As we have said elsewhere, Saturn is the first "to
go forth into manifestation from the bosom of the Infinite,
that He might establish the boundaries of the circle within
which the universe was to manifest and to create the sta-
bility upon which subsequent manifestations might rest.
Hence Saturn is called both the Initiator and the Tester
who determines the degree of stability of our foundation
before each advance is attempted. His force will necessarily
be the last to return, because the laws of stability must be
maintained until the Dot . . . has fulfilled its cycle of niani-
festation." Saturn is therefore the "Alpha and Omega,
the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and
which was, and which is to come." He is, therefore, an
aspect of the Cosmic Christos or the night-side of the Sun
4Th, K. to Ske Uisivevse, Curiju, 6S.
R,vetasio., . 8.
230 The Inner Radiance
of Righteousness, the terror-aspect of the Christ as the
Judge. "For we must all appear before the judgment seat
of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his
body, according to that he bath done, whether it be good or
bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we per-
suade men." "And he commanded us to preach unto the
people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained of
God to be the Judge of the quick and the
Since man dislikes to face himself and accept the results
of his own creation, it is difficult for him to realize that his
tests come in love, even to his being removed from incar-
nation lest he continue his evil ways and accumulate such a
mass of destructive forces that they would overwhelm him
and retard his ongoing for many incarnations, or lest he
venture on into conditions where his lack of strength and
spiritual unfoldment would foredoom him to disastrous
failure. Therefore, man fails to recognize the loving Christ
when covered with the black and purple garments of fear
and misconception with which man has clothed Him.
Since the Christ abides in us and we in Him, unless we
respond to that Indwelling and strive to give positive and
constructive expression to it we tend to build up a negative
expressionthrough our own evil thoughts, words and
deedsin the image of man which hides the loving Christ
from us. Instead of looking within and recognizing Him in
our hearts we turn our backs upon Him and look outward
and see the projection of our own creations, and like the
woman at the tomb cry out: "They have taken away the
Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have
laid him." But the dark tomb of man's own fashioning,
aitho sealed with the stone of his stupidity and misunder-
standing, could not confine Him, and He cannot be found
there, for He is risen and stands before us, no longer in
the aspect of loving tenderness which we have flouted and
.11 Cori,jki.s v. 10, II.
T4ct, x. 42.
Saturn and the Cyclic Law 231
refused to accept, but now as the Judge, the embodiment
of stern Justice.
And, alas, few there be who can recognize Him thus as
He stands in the Path of man's further advance and cries:
"Unless you face me and wrestle with me, 0 man, and tear
from me this mask and these dark garments of human
frailty with which you have clothed me, you cannot pass
on." The Earth trembles at His words and the destructive
manifestations of Earth-forcesstorms, floods, drouths,
famines, cataclysms, etc.,sweep away those who fear to
face and recognize Him or those whose Karma requires
their withdrawal from Earth life. Only those who have
recognized Him in the inner sanctuary of their own hearts;
who have striven to do His will and express His force in
their lives, can recognize that this dread Judge is really the
Lord Christ dressed in the shabby garments of illusion
which man has placed upon Him.
It is man's selfishness and self-sufficiency which refuses
to recognize or believe in the reality of the Christ within
and thus dçlivers Him to be crucified by the rabble of his
lower vibrations, desires and perverted life-forces. Then
man wraps his conception of the Christ in the grave clothes
of his own fashioning and tries to shut it away in a tomb
of darkness and closes the door of his mind to it. But we
know that it will come forth again in power and great
glory to judge the quick and the dead.
While the Bible story is more symbolic than historical,
nevertheless it is an actual and universal fact at a certain
stage in the unfoldment of the Christ-consciousness in every
Soul. Therefore, crc the Soul can reach Mastery, each must
face the ultimate of what the death and burial of the Christ
means in their lives and in the life of mankind. We must
see Him as He would have been had He lain in the grave
through all these ages. We must see Him as a gaunt skele-
ton and must wrestle with Him in this guise until the true
innei ideal of the Christ is uncovered and recognized within:
232 The Inner Radiance
until the wonderful love of the Christ, so long buried under
misconception, comes forth: until we recognize that the
specter of Saturn is but a dark garment of illusion created
by man himself as a screen to hide his own vileness from
the All-seeing Eye, a lay figure on which he thinks to hang
the responsibility for his shortcomings. We must be ready
to recognize Him as Saturn, the Judge of our frailty, the
Tester of our strength and the Initiator of our Souls. Then
we will know Him as He really is.
The great unfoldment destined for mankind during the
Aquarian Age will include a fuller, truer and clearer under-
standing of what Divine Love is and how it manifests. All
the many materialistic, limited and false conceptions with
which man has clothed the Christ must be torn from Him
that He may be recognized in all His aspects and manifesta-
tions and live in the consciousness, hearts and lives of liu-
inanity. Only as He rules as Saturn, and humanity faces
Him, overcomes its false conceptions of Him, wrestles with
Him, pesses His testings and gains His power, can He reign
a* the Messenger of Peace during the New Age.
CHAPTER XXVI
GOD, MAN AND THE PLANET
PART I. THEIR RELATION
"0 Lord, how manifold are thy works I in wisdom thou bait made
them all; the earth is full of thy riches."Psglmjr, civ, 24.
"As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness; I shall be satis-
fied, when I awake, with thy likeness."P,aI,pu, xvii 15.
Many thoughtful students today are pondering over and
seriously questioning why it was necessary for man to in-
carnate on this planet Earth and be dothed with a dense
physical body, when he had already evolved many faculties
and functions on other planets far less dense and hampering
and in spheres far more ethereal and spiritual, wherein he
had built up from their substance a pure and highly
spiritualized body. To have to incarnate in a dense material
and animal body largely dominated by the all-powerful sex
insfinct with which he had no previous experience on other
planets, at first glance seems unfair. It seems like setting
before an innocent, spiritually-minded and trusting child a
great temptation of which it had no previous warning, and
then seemingly punishing it for failing to understand and
master its problem when such failure would seem inevitable.
We are told that only here, on this most dense yet mar-
velously constructed planet, where the two creative aspects
of the Soul masculine and femininewere for the first
time to function in separate bodies, could he learn to per-
form the most marvelous miracle and meet his final test as
to his ability to use his Godlike power of creation on all
planes and in all states of matter, namely, his ability to
Q 233
234 The Inner Radiance
mould matter to the pattern of the ideal or Spiritual Man
and to dominate and utilize to their highest ends the animal
instincts. Only thus could he accomplish his mission in
matter and demonstrate to all the other kingdoms over
which he must ultimately rule that he was, in very truth,
created in the image and likeness of his Father, with all the
God-powers inherent within him and capable of unfoldment
and manifestation.
Only on this dense planet, ruled by the Jaw of duality
was it said: "Then shall your eyes be opened, and ye shall
be as gods, knowing good and evil." But to manifest "as
gods, knowing good and evil" on such a planet, man had to
evolve out of the self-same substance as the planet a body
through which his unfolding God-powers could manifest,
despite the limitations of material conditions. It was much
as though a scientist had conceived of marvelous properties
or powers which he believed were present in a certain region,
yet to demonstrate them he would need an experiment sta-
tion or laboratory set down in the midst of that region and
equipped with specially designed instruments with which,
after much experimentation, he could ultimately demon-
strate to the world that such powers were not imaginary or
mere theory, but were capable of demonstration under suit-
able conditions. And it was for such a marvelous test and
demonstration that man descended from the more etherea!
spheres to this dense material plane. Yet in very truth the
planet is but-little more dense than man himself, for it also
has its ethereal counterparts1 and its latent powers which
will be unfolded in due season.
While we can only speculate more or less imperfectly as
to just why the formation of man and his subsequent victory
over matter was a necessity in the Divine Plan, we can give
much light upon the various phases through which he has
passed and still has to pass once his Cyde of Necessity was
beguL
1 $. dag In RsIwj of lie Lãiusf De.4. curÑs. 43.
God, Man and the Planet 235
The Eternal Being, the Lord God or the everlasting Divine
Law back of all manifestation in all worlds and on all planes,
usually personified in man's thought as a Great Being, a great
King above all kings, pervades all space and all states of sub.
stance and consciousness. And since science has proved that
"thoughts are things," definitely formed, tangible and dem-
onstrable things, the formulated Divine Ideation of such
Beings as can see the end from the beginning is of such
tremendous dynamic creative power as to go on and on
creating various expressions of itself down through all the
worlds of manifestation until it is ultimately embodied in
the dense matter of this planet. Hence man, made in the
image of God, is an outbreathing or projected thought-wave
of God, which once sent forth must dothe itself with the
substances of all planets and worlds into which it is pro-
jected.
Since man was breathed forth to accomplish certain defi-
nite ends in the Divine Plan without which it would be im-
perfect, he must learn the lessons of all planets, spheres and
planes of manifestation through which he passes. Hence he
must experience the conditions to be found on other planets
and planes of being and ultimately learn the much more
difficult lessons made necessary by the density and inertia of
the material conditions of this Earth-plane. Upon reaching
this dense plane of manifestation he does not incarnate in
entire ignorance of its conditions, for they have been fore-
shadowed as he passed this way before while clothed in an
ethereal body composed of the substance of the super-physi-
cal planes of this Earth-chain,2 but he is here now in this
dense material body to take his final degree. But he still
has many Godlike lessons which he must go on learning here
on Earth, aitho like the infant in its mother's womb, he
already embodies the main traits which he must express.
Many of these are like swaddling dothes which must be un-
done and cast aside as he advances in unfoldment.
See The Voice of 1w, Curtlu. apier XV.
236 The Inner Radiance
Man now finds himself no longer clothed in an ethereal
body and responding to the vibrations of Divine Guidance,
but clothed in a body of flesh, with a childlike consciousness
and childlike reactions to animal instincts and the outer
world, hence is easily led astray by the serpent's guilethe
temptations of the sensesfor his garment of flesh is as
blinding to his spiritual sight as is the dust of the earth to
his physical eyes. Having brought about inharmonious con-
ditions by his disobedience, he is blinded and afraid, and this
fear has led to many of his subsequent mistakes and failures
whose results he, naturally, has to reap in sorrow and suffer-
ing and in the sweat of his brow.
He is now no longer a super-conscious mind manifesting
through a harmoniously attuned super-physical body in per-
fect peace and harmony, but finds himself now utilizing only
a reflection of that super-conscious mind in a dense body of
flesh. But the super-conscious mind is a manifestation of
the mind of God and overshadowed and guided by His con-
sciousness, the radiophone through which He broadcasts
His thoughts to the human mind. In other words, man
should be, and ultimately must evolve to be, a consciously
responsive instrument to work out and manifest in matter
the thoughts projected from the mind of God for the ful-
fillment of the Divine Plan. Hence, we are truly made in
His image and after His likeness, even though now out-
wardly clothed in the dust of the ground, or the accumulated
materialized substances of the planetary conditions through
which we have already passed and upon which we have
placed our stamp whle passing through their more ethereal
aspects in the, higher planes.
As a miner must delve deep into the earth and little by
little dig up the "pay dirt" or ore and wash and pan it crc
he can separate and acquire the pure gold for his use, so
must we delve deep down into the depths of our innermost
selves crc we can attain the gold of spiritual consciousness
and the full use of our God-powers. And, paradoxical as
God, Man and the Planet 237
it may seem, the deeper we dig the higher we dimb. And no
matter how deep we dig or how high we dimb, we can never
get away from God; for our bodies are within the aura of
His substance and our minds are within His mentality, and
His radiant life-force penetrates the very cells of our bodies,
for us to appopriate.
No one can think the same thought over and over con-
tinuously in exactly the same manner, for the thought we
meditate upon follows the motion of the spheres, and we
thus see it from all aspects. And only when we have thus
meditated upon all its aspects or experienced all its phases
do we truly comprehend it. This law accounts both for the
endless diversity of human beings and the endless vagaries
of the human mind; for each of us is but one aspect of one
of the many thoughts of God, and it takes all mankind to
make up the whole. Each thought may be likened to a
branch or a rootlet of the Tree of Life that is planted in
our midst: in the very soil of our body. It will lead us
upward into the freedom and light of God-consciousness or
it will wander downward seeking out something good, some
needed lesson, in the debris and muck of life. For there are
not only many branches to our Tree of Life, but many root-
lets tapping many and diverse substances. Therefore, we
cannot expect all men to be exactly alike or to express a
given thought in the same way. Only as we look upon the
various personalities as different branching twigs or rootlets
of the one Divine Tree, each gathering for the benefit of all
some necessary force or experience from various conditions,
can we see humanity as a whole express in its entirety the
thought of God.
From another aspect let us think of God as the mighty
central Sun-behind-the-Sun sending out living sparks of
Divine Fire. Each such spark gradually gathers together
and illumines tie substance of the realm or region through
which it passes, impregnating it with its life-force until it
unfolds its fiery heart and is clothed upon by matter as a
238 The Inner Radiance
human being. All these Divine Sparks naturally are a part
of the substance of God and are the instruments for His
manifestation and the accomplishment of His will. There-
fore, in his inmost being or Real Self, man is one with God,
while in his outer being or personality he is an instrument
of God, with marvelous possibilities and great responsibili-
ties. The trouble arises because, as these sparks were
thrown out or emanated from the Spiritual Sun and entered
the world of form they were surrounded with more and
more dense coats of matter until they became so encased and
absorbed in it that they forgot whence they had come and
what ultimate mission they were sent forth to accomplish.3
Since the planet is the materialization of a thought of God
it naturally reflects all the beauty, diversity and usefulness
needed to aid and perfect the evolution of man, the Divine
Spark. But this perfect Earth has had imposed upon it the
imperfections and limitations due to the density of man's
understanding. For as man evolves within and through his
dense coverings, by and through the free-will use of his divine
creativeness he generates an atmosphere of his own forma-
tion, containing all that he desires or thinks he needs, and
this finally impregnates the Earth and finds expression upon
and through it. Thus man creates his own limitations and
reaps the results of his own thoughts, acts and creations in-
stead of responding harmoniously and co-operatively to those
of God in Nature around him. Hence, today we find man
and woman no longer living in a perfect Garden of Eden,
but thrust out into abi imperfect world of matter through
their disobedience and misuse of the serpent-power within
them, and hiding from God when He calls in the cool of the
day: "Adam, where art thou ?" meaning what point in evo-
lution have you reached? When they do come face to face
with God they realize that they have done little to clothe
themselves with the Divine Ideal of the true Inner- Man and
so are naked before God and ashamed; for even as fig leaves
3 See Icuon TA, Object of Pkysicd R,,t,,sce. Curtiu.
God, Man and the Plane: 239
are an unnatural and inadequate clothing for man, so the
flimsy creations of desire, vanity, pride and self-esteem are
inadequate garments wherewith to clothe the Divine Man
within.
After the middle of the Third Great Race4 we find man
no longer a more or less ethereal being, conscious of the
divine world about him and the nearness of Divine Guidance,
but clothed in a dense physical body, no longer Godlike to
look upon, but fashioned to express the animal traits and
habits which he had fostered and perfected. Yet his God-
given power to create through thought was never completely
taken from him. It still colors all he does, yet through that
God-like power of creative thought must he dimb upward
once more to a realization of his God-consciousness; for God-
consciousness is man's heritage: And even though shut out
of Eden, all who listen with the inner ear can still hear the
Voice crying: "Adam, where art thou?"
Not only did God make this Earth a garden full of beauty,
but filled with all things needed by man for his growth and
happiness and unfoldment. Even when man and woman shut
themselves out of Eden and went forth to till the earth that
it might bring forth just what they desired or thought they
wanted, even then did the all-knowing and all-loving Father-
Mother provide for them, in the herbs of the field and in the
minerals and forces of the earth, a hahn for every wound, an
antidote for every poison and a cure for every ill that man
was destined to bring upon himself in his God-foreseen p11-
grimage through ages of darkness after he had turned his
back upon the Tree of Life in the midst of the Garden.5 For
it was through his misuse of his God-given powers and ma-
terials that man created for all humanity the seeds of inhar-
mony and disease, all that kills joy and happiness, so that each
joy has its sting, and happiness endures for but a day.
Even at the present day when man has begun to recognize
'See TA. VoAc, of Iii,. Curtis.. 233, 284.
$ Per details see TAe TruStS 4bouS E&isSso,s s.d Sb. BibS., Curtis..
240 The Inner Radiance
that he is responsible for all things harmful to himself, the
lower kingdoms and the planet itself, and the things which
shorten and lessen the efficiency of his own life, there are
some schools of thought which deny the helpful gifts of God
and both ignore and scornfully refuse to use the healing
potencies given to man as a surcease for his ills and suffering.
This is a picture of man as he is today and an explanation
of why he is as he is. But it also points out the only means for
the redemption of both man and the planet.
(To be conduded)
CHAPTER XXVII
GOD, MAN AND THE PLANET
PART II. TUE BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE
11Then they that feared (revered) the Lord spoke often one to an-
other; and the Lord harkened, and heard it, and a Book of Remem-
brance was written for them that feared the Lord, and that thought
upon his name."MaIacM, iii, 16-17.
Just as the subconscious mind of man is that aspect of his
mind which controls all the automatic activities of his bodily
functions 'circulation, respiration, digestion, elimination,
repair, etc., just sofor comparison's sake onlymay we
look upon that aspect of the mind of God which controls all
the activities of Nature and the lower kingdoms, and which
inspires and seeks to guide the outer activities of the body of
humanity, as the subconscious mind of God. And just as the
subconscious mind of man functions through the solar plexus
of his body, so the subconscious mind of God functions
through the solar plexus of our solar system, namely the Sun;
in this case not the Spiritual Sun, but the physical luminary
which gives life, light, health, vigor and the joy of expression
to all forms of life in this solar system, enabling them to un-
fold and manifest their inner pattern and possibilities.
While this subconscious mind of God reaches and governs
the physical manifestations of Nature and man through the
radiations of the physical Sun, the Divine or Spiritual Mind
of God reaches and uplifts humanity through the radiations
of the Spiritual Sun manifesting through the heart as the
Cosmic Christ, the only begotten Son of the divine Father-
iSee The V.1cc .f Isis, Cust3u, 90.
241
242 The Inner Radiance
Mother. Therefore, all the functions of Nature and all the
functions of man's body and mind are but various aspects
of the manifestation of the Divine Mind, and are all animated
by His divine radio-activity, the outshining of His life, light
and consciousness. For, just as the physical Sun is the shin-
ing radiance of the physical manifestation of the Christos,
set in the midst of our planetary system to warm and vitalize
into manifestation and redeem from the deadness and inertia
of non-manifestation the germs of all forms of physical life
upon and within this system, so is the shining radiance of
our individual Christosour mighty I Am Presencethe
spiritual life and light which is set in the midst of us"that
light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world"
to warm and vitalize into manifestation and redeem from
the deadness and inertia of non-manifestation the germs of
all spiritual life latent in all humanity.
As the physical Sun lights all the Earth periodically, pro--
ducing day in one hemisphere while it is night in the other,
so does the Spiritual Sun have its cyclic day-and-night periods
for each heart and for humanity as a whole. For we have
need of the night as well as the day: periods of rest, quiet and
darkness during which we can think over and assimilate the
lessons of the day-period and build them into spiritual growth
and character. It is only in the heaven of Spiritual Conscious-
ness that there is no night; for day and night are alike
when we abide in the eternal radiance of the Christ-con-
sciousness.
The Spiritual Sun floods each heart and illumines each
Soul during its spirinial day-period: then it seemingly passes
away for a time, and for us it is then night. Yet in this night
there are great lessons to be learned and blessings to be under-
stood; for just as it is with the lower consciousness, so is it
with the higher. During the night, when the physical brain
is inactive, the Higher Mind can rule and impress the lessons
of the day deep down through the soil of ignorance of the
lower mind so that ultimately they will put forth sprouts
God, Man and the Planet 243
in the outer consciousness. And even if the waking con-
sciousness does bury them deep beneath its materialistic ac-
tivities and conceptions, yet in time they grow and come
forth as new ideas and conceptions, the ripened fruit of ex-
perience. Hence, we must determinedly learn that during
the night, while the physical brain is resting and recuperat-
ing, the Spiritual Mind is pouring in the wisdom which some-
time we must realize, learn and manifest. Therefore, let us
determine to learn it now, for "now is the accepted time;
now is the day of salvation."
Each Soul has a life task or destiny which it must ac-
complish. Therefore, instead of frittering away our time
and opportunities in the vanities of material enjoyments or
in ignorant murmuring against the Great Law, let us set to
workto learn our personal lessons in this outer life, that we
may the sooner pass on to higher things and learn more
pleasing lessons. God waits patiently and utilizes all the
forces of the universe to push us onward and upward as
fast as our stage of unfoldment and strength will permit.
Yet we often whimper if the Sun fails to shine in our lives
for an hour or two, forgetting that we would seldom even
try to learn the more difficult lessons if we were bathed
continuously in sunshine and prosperity.
Some students are over-enthusiastic for a timetheir day-
periodbut later on, as the Sun sets in their hearts and
minds, they seem to lose interest and so give all their atten-
tion to outer things. They are like a plant which droops in
too strong a sunlight or too long a day, hence must have
shade and a nighttime of rest to build in that which the day
has brought forth. These are not to be condemned or
blamed, but must be allowed to sleep for a while under the
sheltering wings of the Divine Mother until their next day-
period dawns, bringing them greater interest, courage and
power to conquer. We know that a new day must inevitably
dawn and the Spiritual Sun again shine in their hearts, and
that they will take other steps onward and upward until
244 The Inner Radiance
finally they shall awake in His imagethe Image of God'
impressed upon them in the beginningand they shall be
satisfied.
The sunlight is the physical redeemer of the Earth, for
without it nothing could grow and manifest; nor without it
could the dead forms and offscourings be fermented and
transmuted into helpful substances for future use. The
noxious weeds and seemingly vile substances in Nature,
while possessing the essence of the one Divine Life, are
nevertheless manifesting it through perverted and obnoxious
forms created by man through his thoughts, his misuse of
the creative force,' etc., whether through ignorance or vile-
ness. Hence the redemption and upliftinent of the lower
forThs of life and the very Earth itself must come through
the purification and upliftment of man's mind and creative
forces.
In a similar manner the radiance of the Christos is the
redeemer and savior of mankind, for without it the seeds
of his spiritual life could not grow and manifest, nor could
the noxious weeds of his perverted forces, his selfishness, in-
harmony, lusts and the offscourings of his mind, be trans
muted into good, even though this requires the experiences
of fermentation and transmutation. Therefore, the redemp-
tion of man and the upliftment of his lo*er forms of mani-
festation must come through the upliftment of his mind to a
realization of and correlation with the radiance of the
Christos or Christ-consciousness.
Man, with his. inherent ability to reach up and respond
to the Christ-conséiousness and thus attain the sublime
heights of Divine Wisdom, has, nevertheless, evolved for
himself a lower mind for use in the material conditions of
the physical world, aitho in essence it is but reflection of his
Higher or Spiritual Mind, much as the Sun is reflected in
the waters of a lake or pool. An ignorant child might mis-
2See Tb. TvvÅts 4b.NS E,eh,Sio,, ..sd gig Bibi,. Curtis., Cbupter XZL
ISce Tb, V.w. 4 Isis. Curtisa, 219.
God, Man and the Planet 245
take such a reflection for the Sun itself, altho the reflection
would be distorted by the ripples of eveiy passing breeze.
Just so undeveloped man, being but an ignorant child in
spiritual things, thinks his lower or rational mind in his real
mind, all the mind there is, aitho in truth it is but the re-
flection of his Spiritual Mind distorted by the ripples of
every desire of the flesh, every ambition of the personality
or every passing breeze of doctrine or theory.
All these ripples and distortions have gradually lessened
man's power to reflect his Spiritual Mind dearly, and hence
have decreased his power of conscious, constructive spiritual
creation through thought. In the early stages, as his
thoughts were largely confined to things of the outer world,
they responded but faintly to the redeeming and transmuting
power of the Spiritual Mind and so grew perverted and
evil and had a greater influence over him than had the good.
He thus grew to believe in evil and that it had more power
than good. And through this wrong thinking he found it
easy to pervert his thought power so as to create inhar-
monious and destructive thoughts and acts which resulted
in inharmony, trouble, sickness, blights, pests and even
storms,' so that the beautiful Earth, God-given for man's
happy use and peaceful progress, became a place of in-
harmony, mighty struggle, suffering and sorrow. And be-
cause of all this that man has created and brought upon him-
self, he came to believe that the loving and omnipresent
radiance of Godthe Christoswas a Being either so far
off as to be uninterested in him or was an avenging Nemesis
to be appeased, watching to punish him for the slightest in-
fraction of seemingly arbitrary laws, or else was a helpless
if not imaginary power subservient to the powers of evil.
Life was never meant to be a bitter struggle with evil; for
evil is but the offscourings of man which he has uncon-
sciously spread like manure over the fields of life because
he could not trust God and believe that these fields could
45cc The Voice of 1i,, Cufflu, 172.
246 The Inner Radiance
bring forth if fertilized only by the gentle rain, the pure air,
the warmth and magnetism of the Sun and the radio-active
substances which God had implanted in the Eatth when He
spake the word, not only to man, but also to the newly
created Earth: "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish
the earth." Yet since man has spread over all the fields
of the Earth the effluvia of his evil creations, he must learn
to transmute it and extract from it every vibration of per-
verted life-force, with the vileness of which his ignorance
and disobedience has saturated the Earth. Thus must he
become the redeemer of his own creations.
The beautiful book of Nature, written by the finger of
God, has been thumbed over for ages by ignorant and tin-
trained interpreters who refused to listen either to the Voice
of God or of Nature and whose materialistic interpretations
have made that great Book seem obscure and hard to de-
cipher. Thus has man obscured the Light and crucified the
very Power which alone can be his salvation. For the
Christ has been crucified by man's misconception and ma-
terialization and still hangs upon the cross of matter where
the Law of Life Eternal is crossed by man's desire, his
ignorance and his disobedience, his self-made suffering and
death. And "Since by man caine death into the world, by
man must also come the resurrection from the dead."
The Christ must hang upon this very real man-made cross
until the Christ-consciousness in man has been freed from
the bonds, of materialistic conception and through illuinina-
tion and manifestation he bkgins the redemption of the per-
sonality, and through man the redemption of the very ground
itself which was accursed by man through his disobedience
to Divine Law. But the all-loving Father-Mother, full of
compassion and patience, still points out the way so dearly
proclaimed by Their only begotten Son, the Cosmic Christ,
whose voice still sounds through the ages: "I am the way,
the truth and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but
by me . . . Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any
God, Man and the Planet 247
man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him,
and will sup with him, and he with me."
If the physical Sun can bring up out of the mire of Earth
all kinds of beautiful flowers, healing herbs and foods for
man's physical well-being, how much greater is the power
of the Spiritual Sun to bring up out of the mire of man's
lower self, out of his bitter experiences, his evil creations,
sin, sickness and death, the beautiful flowers of spiritual un-
foidment which were implanted by God as seeds in man in
the beginning ere he became embodied on this planet!
Since Nature is a manifestation of God, it must inevitably
contain, not only an expression of the one Divine Life, but
also an expression of the one Divine Consciousness; for all
manitestation is fed and sustained by the Divine Life-force
manifested through the ever-living Christos or Cosmic
Christ. For it is this Cosmic Christ-force that is the ani-
mating spark of life in every form of life, from the tiniest
electron to the mightiest planet. It is the radio-activity of
radium, bombarding all things within its range with its ema-
nations. It is the light of the sunbeam sent forth to illu-
mine, warm and redeem the Earth. It is the power which
enables the tiny rootlet to pierce the dark earth and extract
from its environment the exact nourishment needed for its
particular form of life. It is the incessant urge which en-
ables the tender sprout to push up through the soil and over-
come all obstacles to its reaching out into the sunlight. It
finds its expression in the perfume of the flower: in the re.
freshing qualities of the fruit: in the nourishment of the
food. It is heard in the sounds of Nature: in the happy
laughter of children, and finds its highest expression to man
in the Still Small Voice which seeks to guide him to the
harmonious and happy fulfillment of his destiny.
The voice of Nature, altho an octave higher than the
outer ear of untrained man can hear, is nevertheless forever
singing the Psalm, of Life, and can be heard, or at least
felt or sensed, by all who listen with an inner self-attune-
248 The Inner Radiance
ment to Nature's harmonies, for it speaks in a subtile way
to all. And even if this speech is a language they cannot
interpret in words, still, be they attuned ever so slightly they
can feel the life-thrill of oneness and can understand.
The subtile vibrations of life all manifest some form of
sound, either audible or inaudible to man. The Psalm of
Life is made up of chords composed of the notes of all living
things, from angelic Beings, Devas, elementals and mortals
down to the tiny blades of grass, and the almost invisible
insects, and the electrons circling around their nucleus, the
proton. All have their part and sing it in rhythmic per-
fection and exquisite harmony when not perverted by
man.
Each creature and growing thing sings its part in the An-
them of Creation and thereby explains its reason for being,
its lesson and its ultimate destiny. Blessed are the ears
that can hear, the hearts that can understand and the minds
that to some extent can interpret it. As Nature sings this
endless alleluia chorus the Psalm of Life rises like a mighty
pean of praise to God in notes so high and clear, yet with a
bass of suffering endured, sins overcome and mighty lessons
learned without self-pity or doubt, that only man's absorp-
tion in material vibrations and concerns prevents his hear-
ing it. It is this bass which completes the harmony of the
spheres, for it tells of the greatest wisdom, the greatest
patience and love of God inanward.
The Book of Remembrance, written by the hand of God,
is revealed to man by his every effort to overcome his faults
and failings, to unfòld his higher possibilities and attain
perfection. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect" is the wonderful injunction
given for man's encouragement and a wonderful ideal for
his attainment, but we must understand how it can be ac-
complished. We cannot become perfect in a day, nor in a
year, nor in one life, but the process can be greatly hastened,
mistakes avoided and their suffering prevented, by con-
God, Man and the Planet 249
sciously correlating with the Christ-force and with its help
striving to manifest our highest ideals.
Do not think that we must be punished in order to be-
come perfect, for the God of Love and Wisdom demands
no such process. Even unenlightened humanity is finding
out that the more it punishes without enlightenment, the
more resistance is aroused, the less progress is made and
the worse conditions become. The Divine Law as Karma
and Reincarnation constantly works for the perfection of
man and the Earth by bringing man face to face with con-
ditions which gradually teach him the lessons of his former
mistakes and failures, the only punishment being the reaping
of what he has sown until he learns not to set up the causes
which necessitate such reapings. Through all this God helps
us even more lovingly because of our suffering, as we pass
through our self-made Karma and press on toward perfec-
tion. For God is always love, ever near us, comforting,
aiding and encouraging us by the out-pouring of that love,
even in our darkest hours.
Let us all take courage then. Let us strive individually,
and dso hold together and work with our comrades of like
mind and ideals that we may the more efficiently help the
weak, enlighten the ignorant, uplift the fallen and encourage
all who will to push ever onward to victory, the glorious
attainment of that perfection which is our ultimate destiny.
Greater is he who overcometh than he who was never
tempted. When tempted beyond our strength or our faith
to believe let us say to ourselves: "God is in me and I am
in Him. By the power of Godhood that is within me I must
conquer sometime, why not now? If a tiny seed can take
root in the mire of Earth and by the persistent urge of its
ideal can reach the sunlight and bring forth the image God
has implanted within it; if it can transmute the vilest mire
of Earth into power to grow into a mighty tree, in spite of
storms and bitter cold and burning heat, in spite of insects
and blights and pests, so can I, a tiny Spark of God-con-
250 The Inner Radiance
sciousness, take root in the densest Earth conditions and
among the offscourings of man's iniquity and utilize as
fertilizer all apparent evil and, through the power of the
Christ within me, lift it up into a true expression of that
image and likeness of God which is my mighty I Am Pres-
ence, my Real Self."
As this is accomplished more and more, man will take his
destined place in evolution, namely, the ruler of his destiny
and the helper and benefactor of all the lesser expressions
of life on Earth and the perfector of the Earth and all that
therein is until he makes his conscious ascension into the
higher worlds through the gate of translation, like Elijah,
instead of through the gate of death.
.God's Book of Remembrance keeps record, not of our
failings and mistakes, but of every aspiration and effort we
have made to realize and manifest the image of God within.
Listen with understanding, 0 man, while the angels sing
together their mighty anthem: "Glory to God in the highest,
and on earth peace, good will toward men." But let us
remember that this can come to man only as he attunes
his mind to and correlates with it and gives it expression
on Earth.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE THIRD EYE
The Third Eye was once a physiological organ, and later on, owing
to the gradual disappearance of spirituality and increase of material-
ity, the spiritual nature being extinguished by the physical, it became
an atrophied organ. . . the Inner Vision had to be awakened and
acquired by artificial stimuli; the process of which was known to the
old Sages.... It is the chief organ of spirituality in the h,lm2n
brarn."The Secret Doctrine. Blavatsky, ii, 309, 308; iii, 506.
1The light of the body is the eye; if therefore thme eye be single
thy whole body shall be full of light."St. Matthew, vi, 22.
Our cosmic philosophy teaches that during the Third Great
Race (Lemurian) the Third Eye or pineal gland, now atro-
phied and hidden away in the center of the brain, was a
normally functioning organ connected with the creative
thought-power of Kriya-shakti. But since the middle of the
third sub-race of the Atlanteans, when the consolidation and
full materialization of the body was completed, it was not
only hidden from sight, but its higher functions were grad-
ually lost and its organ atrophied. Creation through the
pineal gland took place before the separation of the sexes,
hence long before creation through physical generation. The
creative functions of the pineal gland at that time were
largely connected with the creation of spiritual ideation and
other special conditions needed by the more spiritual and
super-physical races, for at that time both aspects of the
Soul (masculine and feminine) were manifesting in the one
super-physical body. Both were absolutely one and required
the same love and care, and both were learning the same
lessons of life's beginning together as spiruaI twin Souls.
These spiritual powers and ideals had to be developed and
251
252 The Inner Radiance
function in man's spiritual nature and consciousness so that,
later on, after his physical body and its functions had be-
come materialized, he would still possess his spiritual pow-
ers even though he was no longer outwardly conscious of
them. It is because of their presence in the inner man, even
though latent to his outer consciousness, that they are ca-
pable of being awakened, through appropriate means, and
act as the Antatharana or bridge over the great abyss or
chasm which yawns between the consciousness of the outer
animal man and his inner, true or Divine Self, the Image
of God within. For it is the presence of this Divine Self
within man which constitutes the mighty and essential dif-
ference between the highest animals and man.
During the first three Races man was in conscious touch
with the forces of Nature and its various forms of life and
consciousness, and with the higher, angelic and super-physi-
cal Beings who were his teachers. This conscious touch
with the invisible worlds was lost because of the materiali-
zation of the former semi-astral body and the loss of func-
tion of the pineal gland. In the early childhood of physical
man he was taught the fundamental virtues as a child is
taught, namely, to love God; to recognize in his brother man
the same God-like powers that he felt within himself; to
realize the absolute oneness of the two opposite poles of his
nature, masculine and feminine; the relation of the Inner
Self to the outer world; the object of incarnation in the flesh,
etc. But after the symbolic Eve was taken from Adam's
side1 during the "deep sleep" or pralaya between the Third
and Fourth Races, mankind had to learn new and greater
lessons, for the current of unfoldment or evolution sweeps
us ever onward and upward with only temporary retarda-
tions to learn minor lessons.
While at the end of each magnum annus or solar year of
about 26,000 years the Earth seems to return to its former
detail. a The TniSk 4ouS RvoMtij .ad She Bihi., Curtis., caapter
The Third Eye 253
position in the heavens, it is only approximately so; for the
Earth is like a rolling wheel, turning over and over, yet al-
ways advancing into new regions in space and into new con-
ditions. Nothing can be gained by going backward. Even
the lapse of old age into so-called "second childhood" can-
not take place unless the Real Self or Soul has passed on
into the higher worlds, leaving only the human personality
behind to go over and over the more deeply impressed inci-
dents of early life, and little physical happenings whose
memory adheres to the meshes of the animal consciousness
after the Soul has withdrawn.
Thus would it inevitably be if the Race tried to go back
to the conditions of its childhood as a Race and attempt to
manifest the male and female again in an androgynous body,
in which the two reproduced by flssion--as the amoeba does
today, the two dividing into four once every forty hours
as in the pre-physical days. Once the separation of the
sexes had been accomplished and the preparation made for
the crowning achievement of physical embodiment, i.e., the
manifestation of unity in duality or the one spiritual Being
in separated aspects, there can be no going bark, any more
than a child can return to its mother's womb, or a flower
into the seed from which it sprang. Once the auric egg, in
which both were germinating, had been planted in matter
and had hatched and brought forth the man and the woman,
they must go on and on up the spiral journey of the celestial
Soul's pilgrimage through matter until, through the union
of the two who are one, there is manifested the Christ-power
which shall rule all things and make of this planet the glow-
ing star in the East for a new system which is its destiny to
In the childhood of the Race the God of Love and Wis-
dom taught mankind how to build for themselves a physical
body, an ark into which was gathered every type and mani-
festation of life in the animal and lower kingdoms. After
they became separated the Soul found itself endowed with
254 The Inner Radiance
two ways of looking at life and its problems, two windows
through which it could view the panorama of life in both di-
rections. And, if willing to remember their earlier lessons
and obey the laws then taught them, they could still find the
Lord God walking in the Garden of their dually manifested
Spiritual Self.
In endeavoring to set forth the principles of this mighty
subject during the less enlightened ages, many blinds neces-
sarily had to be used; for until the brain of man had passed
through the stage of mechanical expression, as exemplified
in the present mechanical age, it was not sufficiently unbur-
dened of its urge to material expression to be ready to listen
and respond to the stage of spiritual expression of the inner
Spiritual Man, who alone is taught of God face to face.
Hence the truth of this subject could be taught only to the
Elect, those whose spiritual unfoldment was such that they
could grasp and understand without misconceiving and ma-
terializing it. To all others it had to be expressed in par-
ables. Only to those Elect did Jesus say: "Unto you it
is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but
unto them that are without, all these things are done in par-
ables: that seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hear-
ing they may hear, and not understand."2
In spite of the fact that the spiritual mysteries are always
veiled from the spiritually unprepared, many are going about
the world today offering .to tech all who can pay the steep
price, not only all the mysteries, butfor a still higher price
all the major and minor initiations. In the Orient where
the unfolding of the higher powers is taught to advanced
and specially selected students only, according to traditional
methods, the student is required to withdraw from the world
and spend a full year, or longer if necessary, upon the un-
foldment of each center, under constant supervision and
guidance. Hence, one can readily see how little can be ac
2Ss. J(.vh. V. II, 12.
The Third Eye 255
coznplished with the unprepared by a few commercialized
lessons as to methods of unfoldment.
To those who know that initiation and ability to compre-
hend the mysteries comes only as a result of long and steady
spiritual unfoldulent, it is obvious that the grandiose prom-
ises of commercialized teachers cannot be kept, but are sim-
ply bait used by charlatans to exploit for financial returns,
the sincere desire of the Soul for spiritual enlightenment.
But a little experience will show that no amount of mere
repetition of mantrams, of sitting in specified postures or of
performing prescribed breathing or other exercises can, of
themselves, unfold the spiritual understanding, enable the
mind to grasp spiritual truth or bring one into conscious
touch with the Divine Indweller that He may become the
guide and ruler of the life.. At most, such vain repetitions
and mechanical exercises can but open one's consciousness to
the lower astralnot the spiritualworld with its mani-
fold illusions and terrible temptations.
But even if the inner mysteries are veiled, all who ear-
nestly and sincerely seek for spiritual enlightenment, rather
than for wonders, will always be led to where that aspect
of truth needed for their next step onward ean be found,
provided they ask in the inner sanctuary of their hearts for
that guidance. For when the outer activities are stilled and
the mind quieted there comes a vague memory, almost a
realization, of something wonderful that is within, a part of
us, yet which just eludes our grasp. But no matter how
vague this may be at first, those who persistently enter into
the silence of the temple of the Inner Self some day will
surely have the great truths which were given to them in the
beginning revealed to their outer consciousness, and the
truth shall make them free. Then they will no longer waste
time, money and effort poring over books filled with biased
interpretations and dogmatic statements put forth by those
whom Jesus called the blind leaders of the blind.
As we enter this new Aquarian Age we will find it an age
256 The Inner Radiance
of revelation and understanding. For while the weeds of
misconception, falsification and misuse of God's most sacred
truths and gifts must first spring up, the forces poured out
by the mighty Water Bearer will ultimately sweep away all
that is false and will wash dean the minds and hearts of
men as the overflowing of the physical waters will cleanse
the Earth. And the cataclysmic conditions through which
humanity is destined to pass will awaken to spiritual reali-
zation all sincere Souls who are eager for spiritual growth
and understanding.
Since the creative laya centers of this planet were ani-
mated and its manifestation materialized in quite a dilfer-
cut way from other planets or world-chains,' it is here
that an entirely new act in the drama of manifestation is to
be enacted. Here humanity is entrusted with the use of a
new and dangerous power, capable of bringing to them the
greatest suffering and misery, but also capable of lifting
them into a realm and a state of consciousness higher than
any yet reached on other world-chains. Those who have
reached the perfection of other worlds have not had the same
lessons to learn, for they did not have the same conditions
to meet, experience and conquer. They are the advanced
Souls who are now learning the lessons of the Earth-chain.
For this reason man did not accidentally or through a mis-
take on the part of the Creator "fall" into generation, but
his bodily vehicles were specially designed by the Creative
Hierarchies for the purpose of 4earning the great lesson of
this planet, i.e., the use and mastery of the creative powers
in duality, that is, manifesting in separated sexes.
"The light of the body is the eye; if therefore thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light." While the
obvious outer meaning of this statement is that we must be
sincere and whole-hearted in our search for truth, its esoteric
meaning is that when the single or Third Eye functions it
$ See Cbapter on 'World CbMOI In The Voice of Isu. Curtlaa.
S*. MUk.w. vi. 22.
The Third Eye 257
permits us to see in the spiritual realm, whose radiant spir-
itual light will illumine all our bodies and make them full of
light. This does not mean that we will ever return to the
Cyclops stage of evolution and have but one eye function-
ing outwardly, but that the Third Eye will function in-
wardly and admit our consciousness to the inner worlds.
Nor does it mean that children will ever be created through
the functioning of the Third Eye. Children will always be
procreated sexually as long as mankind manifests in physi-
cal bodies, according to the Law of Duality which rules the
physical plane; for by the time man learns to create physi-
cally through Kriya-shakH or thought-power, he will no
longer function through the physical body.
As the Third Eye gradually opens and illumines our con-
sciousness. the power both to create and procreate will be
seen in a far different and more sacred light than can be
conceived of by the unillumined today. Only when we open
the Third Eye and learn to utilize its power for spiritually
creative purposes can we create as gods, knowing good and
eL
CHmEI XXIX
THE MOUNT OF ATTAINMENT
"Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shaU stand in
his holy place? He that bath clean hands and a pure heart; who bath
not lifted up his soul onto vanity; nor sworn deceitfully. He shall
receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God
of his salvation.'PsaIms, xxiv 3-5.
"Adoration and joy have a most powerful effect as an invocation.
Even though the eye of sinful man may not see the descent of the
glory invoked, it can be distinctly felt with a thrill of awe and adora-
tion by every sensitive nature. Hence joy which springs from ad-
oration is truly a magical power."Chrirtsai. Mystic Hymnil, Curtiss,
43
In the mystic legends of many countries we are told of a
certain high mountainwhich possibly is not physical, yet
which all those who sincerely seek shall ultimately find
whose top is enveloped in a fleecy snow-white doud and
around whose base at various places almost impassable bogs
and marshes, deep canyons, rocky defiles and precipitous
cliffs separate it from the plains beyond.
It is said that upon the mountain-top there is a pool of
clear, radiant water from which four streams run to the four
quarters of the globe. This pool is said to be the Pool of
Divine Life in which the.mystic potencies which constitute
the life-blood of the Cosmos are focused for this planet,
while the streams which come from it are streams of Living
Water which flow from the Divine to all manicind, and of
which all who will may drink to their Soul's refreshment,
and in which all who bathe will be purified and deansed
from all their sins and Soul-stains.
This mountain is the sacred Mount of Spiritual Attain-
ment which is symbolized in various lands by Mt. Meru,
258
The Mount of Attainment 259
Mt. Olympus, Mt. Sinai, etc.; altho any beautiful cloud-
capped mountain would symbolize the same thing, for all
such mountains uplift and inspire the Soul with joy and
adoration of the Divine. But however symbolized this is
a definite Mount of Attainment which all humanity must
ultimately find and begin to climb, no matter how many in-
carnations they may wander in the wilderness at its base crc
they definitely begin the ascent.
The great mass of mankind are content to remain and live
for many incarnations on the plain at the base of this Mount.
amidst the dank miasmas which rise from the reeking
swamps, chilled by the cold fogs which settle down and blot
out the Sun, and often suffering miserably from the terrible
storms and blizzards which howl through the canyons and
gorges and out over the plain. Yet all the time there are
many open glades and sunny meadows higher up on the
mountain-side which continually invite those who are will-
ing to break away from the traditions of their neighbors,
seek out the Path, brave the dangers of the unknown and put
forth the effort to climb.
The streams of Living Water which flow from the Sacred
Pool down over the mountain-side have, in many places, be-
come so broken up and diverted by the obstacles placed in
them by man's ignorance, selfishness and materialism that
they are scattered and spread out into shallow, sluggish wan-
dering seepages instead of remaining clear sparkling rills of
Divine Life-force. And their waters have been so polluted
that they are full of fungi and other low forms of life which
only add to their impurity and sliminess, so that in addition
to the rocks which bruise the feet of the pilgrim who as-
pires to ascend the Mount, his feet slip and his hands are
often defiled and he despairs of reaching the sunny glades
he sees above, to say nothing of attaining the top.
Among the masses toiling at the base many look up from
time to time and long for the peace and quiet, the sunshine
and the green trees they see above. And some adventurous
260 The Inner Radiance
ones have actually dimbed part way up out of the lower
mists and fogs toward the regions where the Masters dwell,
and think that now that they are above the lower mists all
their trials are over and the problem of the ascent is solved.
Because of this humanity hears many voices calling out:
"This is the only way, follow me! This is the only true
Path! Seehowhighlhaveclimbed! Seehowlcandem-
onstrate! Therefore my teachings are the only Truth I"
Yet each points out a different way. So confusing are
these different voices that many earnest seekers follow first
one, then another, often slipping and falling over some hid-
den rock and sustaining many a bruise, and often having to
retrace their steps to enter another path. But those who cease
struggling to obey the loud cries of uFollow me," and who
pray to the Christ for guidance, hear a vibrant Voice of
poignant sweetness that penetrates through all the confu-
sion and fills their hearts with a divine emotion, saying: "I
am the Way, the Truth, and the Life." And as they look
up they see small luminous patches glowing here and there
among the rocks, each marking out a footstep of Him who
has dunbed before them and marked out the Path. There-
fore they cease to follow blindly the many cries of human
leaders, but seek for evidences of His footsteps and follow
them wherever found.
Those who will follow this inner Divine Guidanceand
through the Christ-challenge they can be sure it is Divine
and not mere astral guidaziceréalize that on the mountain-
top stands the Lord Christ holding out His hands and pour-
ingforthHisforcetohelpallwhoturntoHim. Theythen
see that He is not hidden, as so many think, by the douds
which surround the top, for the clouds are but the effulgent
radiance of His glory which the eye of sinful man cannot
penetrate, for it must be spiritually discerned. He stands
in the radiant Light which seems to till all space, and the.
Power which streams from His bands thrills each devout
seeker, illumines his mind and warms his heart with ecstasy.
The Mount of Attainment 261
It matters not from what country the aspirants come or
through what religion. The only questions He asks are:
"Lovest thou me? Art thou true and sincere? Art thou
trying thy best?" For no matter what our belief, if we fol-
low it sincerely we will either advance toward Himunder
whatever name we may know Himor we will soon come to
the end of any mistaken path we have taken and will learn
its lesson. When we reach the end of such a path we need
not fear either punishment or reproach, for even though we
must some day reap the inevitable Karma of our mistakes,
especially if wilfully persisted in, nevertheless at the end
of our blind path or detour we will find the Christ with a
tender smile of loving encouragement waiting to point out
the luminous footprints of the true Way. Therefore, no
matter what path we may have followed, how we may have
strayed or how we have delayed our advance, if we have
been sincere and true to our best guidance we will ultimately
find the Lord of Life and Love and Beauty, even if only
to change the direction of our efforts. For often there are
lessons on paths leading away from Him which seemed nec-
essary for us ere we could give Him true recognition and
allegiance.
Thus many Souls go round and round the Mount, incar-
nation after incarnation, even after they have climbed to a
considerable height. Some of these are wont to discourage
other seekers by telling them that there is nothing new to
be learned, even as high as they have gone, and that all is
contained in the old musty teachings which were suited to
past ages and which they had studied in past incarnations,
hence had recognized and naturally accepted in this life.
This is one of the reasons why the whole world is so filled
with unrest and dissatisfaction with former teachings which
fail to point out a straight path that can be followed under
present day conditions, "Because straight is the gate, and
narrow is the way, which leadeth unto Life and few there
be that find it"
262 The Inner Radiance
Know well that there is not one child of Earth, be he ever
so wicked according to the world's idea, who will not ulti-
mately learnby the inevitable suffering his transgression
of the Law creates, even out of the depths of agony and
despair, if he will learn in no other wayhow to find the
Christ; who will not at least glimpse the radiance of His
glory and feel the warmth of His redeeming love. The
greater the sinner, the greater the miracle of transformation
when the thrill of Divine Love awakens him to realization.
The more he has striven to serve self or to stand in the
market place that the world may exalt him, the more surely
will he reach the end of his own greatness, when, over-
whelmed by disappointment and humiliation, he will gladly
turn at last to the Christ.
The lower slopes of the Mount of Attainment are infested
by bandits of many kinds who seek to steal from the pilgrim
that which he has gained from the Lord Christ during his
dimb up the Mount. Even at certain passes far up on the
mountain-side occasional bandits are to be met. One ear-
nest Aspirant was once confronted with two bandits, both
young, handsomely dressed and very polite. But since the
Aspirant had been trained to look deep into every unusual
incident or experience of life for its inner significance or
lesson, he at once challenged "In the Name of the Christ."
The first bandit told him that the ransom he demanded was
that the true Aspirant for Mastery must cater more to
worldly prosperity and prove the height of his attainment
by the degree of his worldly advancement and power. The
second bandit demanded that the Aspirant cater more to the
intellectual classes and modify his ideals so as to conform
to the ideas of the so.called practical scientific world. But
upon further challenge and the refusal of the Aspirant to
abandon the Heart Doctrine or follow any other guidance
than the Christ Light. the bandits disappeared. Thus we
see that as we advance up the Mount of Attainment the
temptations become more subtle and apparently more rca-
The Mount of Attainment 263
sonable, yet are always amenable to the Christ challenge.
Those sincere and humble ones who are willing to empty
themselves of their own conceptions that they may be filled
with His consciousness and follow in His footsteps, reach
many sunny glades on the mountain-side where for a con-
siderable time they enjoy health, peace, rest and prosperity,
and where they expand their consciousness with the realiza-
tion of His presence or at least the aura of His passing
near. But after this period of advance, assimilation and re-
cuperation, as they climb still higher, a new period of trial
and testing awaits them. They have been tested as to their
ability to hear the Voice and follow the footsteps, as to their
sincerity and their ability to climb, but now comes the test
of their faith and their endurance. For just as mountain
climbers experience various changes in their bodily func-
tions as the higher altitudes are reached and the rarefied
air makes breathing more difficult, makes the heart labor
and the blood vessels seem ready to burst, and brings on the
lassitude of "mountain sickness," so do similar experiences
occur as we reach the higher altitudes on the Mount of At-
tainment. Our whole being must adjust itself to the ran-
fled atmosphere, to the higher vibrations, to the focus of
previously unknown currents of force and to the dazzling
Light to which we are now subjected.
This type of illness naturally results from an excessive
influx of Divine Radiance, for as the higher spiritual foroes
pour into the body all its nerves and tissues must respoid
and be transmuted or those which are too dense must break
down and be cast out. A similar process takes place with
the use of the X-ray. While it is helpful, stimulating and
healing in moderate amounts, its excessive use causes terrible
burns or even cancers which necessitate the amputation of
a limb or part.
Not only must the bodily tissues adjust themselves to the
great influx of spiritual forces, but in the mental realm the
seed-thoughts of every fear, sin or disease experienced since
264 The Inner Radiance
childhoodtogether with similar seed-thoughts brought over
from past liveswhich have been impressed upon the sub-
conscious mind or lodged in the astral body or physical tis-
sues in a latent or spore stage, are fructified and stimulated
into active manifestation until conquered or thrown off, be-
cause their Karma has been reaped. Hence it is necessary
to use every possible meansphysical, medical, mental and
spiritualto help Nature make this great readjustment, lest
the physical be unable to bear the strain.
Often such latent seeds of fear, sin or disease may have
entirely disappeared from the mind and not have been
thought of for years; yet they suddenly break out into
manifestation without apparent cause. Hence the Aspirant
may pass through attack after attack of various severe ill-
nesses, often of an infectious nature with high fever and
great prostration, or through attacks of neurasthenia or
nervous prostration from apparently trivial causes. But in
spite of passing through this "mystical ill health" as it is
called, many of whose attacks would kill an ordinary per-
son living on the lower levels of attainment, those who pass
through this rapid chemicalization or transmutation seldom
die during the attacks and often live to a ripe old age in spite
of their invalidism. But when the process is over they re--
turn to perfect health, aitho still very sensitive to inhar-
monious conditions of body or mind.
Such persons survive because the main life-centers have
been sufficiently transmuted and spiritualized n the past and
in this life to be able to withstand the higher forces suffi-
ciently to hold the body together and preserve its life. But
this should not be made the excuse for giving way in a nega-
tive manner to every little indisposition or inharmony in-
stead of striving to conquer it.
All these experiences are evidence, not of backsliding o
failure to "live the life," but of the fait that higher altitudes
on the spiritual mountain-side have been reached. But if
the various stages of this strenuous climb are understood
The Mount of Attainment 26S
they need not become "the dark night of the Soul"; for it
should be borne in mind that the message of the Christ is
essentially one of joy. This is the message that mankind
greatly needs. We need to realize the wonderful truth in
the words: "Sorrow may endure for a night, but joy
cometh in the morning." For the Soul passes through a
night-period and suffers only as it loses sight of the Christ-
life, and it is morning the instant the joy of His presence
illumines our being.
Already we see the Mystic Light far out over the sea of
life, the Light which presages the dawn of a New Day for
all humanity. We should therefore repeat to ourselves until
it becomes a part of our inner consciousness that we can
enter into the joy of the Lord if we will. We feel the thrill
of this joy to the extent that we become one with Him, even
if it be but for a moment. No matter if the Earth be shak-
ing, if cities be burning, if governments be overturned and
nations in despair, if through climbing up the Mount of At-
tainment we have learned, by even one experience, some-
thing of the underlying, eternal and never-ending stream of
joy that is flowing from the heart of the Christ, we can rest
in the knowledge that all is well; for all seeming disasters
in the outer life are but clearing the way for His coming
and for th. greater manifestation of His joy.
S
266
CHAPTER XXX
THE ROUND TABLE
"That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on
twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes of IsraeL",St. Luke, xii, 30.
"Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye
have no life in you.... He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my
blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him."St John, vi, 53-56.
"Man am I grown, a man's work must I do. Follow the deer?
Follow the Christ the King. Live pure, speak true, right wrong, fol-
low the kingelse wherefore born ?"IdytI: of She Kiug, Tennyson.
Among the many legends handed down through the early
literature of the race there is probably none morÇ romantic
and interesting than that of the Mystic Quest, the English
version being that of King Arthur and his Knights of the
Round Table. He is represented as a great monarch, the
splendor of whose court, whose riches and generosity, are
the admiration of all. His court is made the point of de-
parture and return for the Knights who ride forth on purely
chivalric ventures, such as aiding each other, rescuing those
in distress, seeking the Holy Grail and the like.
Aitho the legends concernillg King Arthur were collected
and published in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Reguns
Britannia. as early as 1136 A.D., recent historial research
tells us that whether there was a historit King Arthur is
much debated and often roundly denied.1 But it makes little
difference whether the tale is historical or not, for it con-
tains a marvelous symbology when spiritually interpreted.
Even though Geoffrey of Monmouth makes no mention of
a Round Table, such a table is almost universally connected
with the story of King Arthur as being one of the three
1Eaccigdi II, 681.
The Round Table 267
fabulous and mystical tables representing the Trinity. The
first table is said to be the Table of the Last Supper, the
second the Round Table of the Holy Ghost which was
brought to England by Joseph of Arimathea, and the third
is the Round Table of King Arthur, at which only the most
valiant of the Knights of the Round Table were privileged
to sit. This table is said to have been made round so that
alt the Knights might be seated without quarreling as to
precedence.
The legend goes much farther back than the fifth or sixth
century, for there is scarcely a time in recorded history
when some version of it was not known to the mystics in
some form and repeated either as history, legend or myth
according to the understanding of the one repeating it. But
always there is the central figure of a King, also his Queen,
surrounded bj a halo of light from a crown of jewels and
sitting in the seat of honor, in the center of the Round Table
of which there were twelve divisions or seats. The curious
part of these legends is that while these seats always hold
twelve Knights, often many other Knights are represented
as seated back of each chair, so that each division of the
Round Table, as it extended outward into space, could con-
tain an infinite multiplication of the original twelve.
Since every legend that is handed down through the ages
must have some underlying basis of truth or it could not
survive, let us seek for the truth underlying this legend of
King Arthur and his Round Table.
Scholars generally agree that King Arthur is a Solar Hero
or a representative of the Sun God. This gives the key to
the whole legend; for with King Arthur in the center rep-
resenting the Sun, the Round Table is seen to represent the
zodiac, and its twelve seats or divisions are the twelve signs
of the zodiac. The twelve chief Knights are the Rulers of
the twelve signs, while the other Knights who stand back
of each seat are all those belonging to each sign who have
passed their initiations and have dedicated themselves to
268 The Inner Radiance
serve the Light Bearer in His mission of spreading the Light
of Truth to every type of mankind in all the twelve signs.
As we have said elsewhere: "Reference may be made to
the twelve zodiacal signs as representative of the Twelve
Apostles, of which King Arthur and the Round Table is but
another versionas merely a figurative method of typify-
ing the Twelve as a fundamental law of spiritual geometry.
Hereby is sought to establish the truth that every Circle of
Being includes twelve particular points of spiritual radiation
or magnetic departures, whereby a change in the involu-
tionary inbreathing becames a vibratory foil to its polar
opposite or evolutionary outbreathing.... Being the rep-
resentative of the Spiritual Sun, the Light Bearer of every
age naturally drew around himself twelve representatives
through whom his Light could shine forth and be expressed
in twelve phases to the peoples to whom He came, just as
the Sun is reflected in its twelve disciples or signs of the
zodiac."'
"The twelve was a symbol necessarily used by every Light
Bearer, not to copy some older expression of mic truth,
but to illustrate the twelve aspects through which both the
physical Sun manifests in Nature and the Spiritual Sun
manifests in humanity; also to indicate the twelve mighty
zodiacal Hierarchies or Rays of Understanding, the twelve
mighty expressions of Cosmic Truth; the twelve avenues
through which the Sun of Righteousnessthe incarnate
Wordcan shine forth to illuminate the hearts and minds
of all classes and conditions of humanity. They also repre-
sent the twelve gates to the New Jerusalem, that inner Tem-
ple of Truth in which each type of humanity (disciple) can
receive the illumination of the inner Mysteries face to face
and heart to heart through his own special avenue of thought
and teaching; that inner shrine where the one Light reveals
those inner truths which cannot be given directly to the un-
comprehending multitude, but which are the basis of the
ITb, K. of Ds.iJuy. Curtis., SIfl.
The Round Table 269
outer shining forth of every true disciple of the Christ." s
"The zodiac also represents the Last Supper or Round
Table on which the Bread of Life is placed, the food which
sustains the universe; while the life-force (blood) of the
Sun, which vitalizes all the signs, is the Wine of Life or the
mystical blood of the Cosmic Christ of which all must par-
take. While all partake of this mystic bread and wine
around the Sun's table, only those who are truly disciples
and who recognize their Lord of Light, can consciously par-
take 'in remembrance of Him' with a full understanding of
what is taking place." 2
At the last supper Jesus "took the bread and gave thanks,
and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, 'This is my body
which is given for you." And in I Corinthians, x, 16-17
we read: "the bread which we brake, is it not the communion
of the body of Christ? For we being many have one bread,
and one body: for we are all partakers of that one bread."
Both these and many other similar statements dearly indi-
cate that all mankindregardless of race, color, religion or
creedmust collectively be regarded and the body of the
Cosmic Christ broken into countless fragments (personali-
ties) that we might share His life, while the Wine is His
blood or spiritual life-force which is instilled into all, no
matter bow differently they may manifest it or by what name
they may call it and whether they have been able to recog-
nize and manifest it or not. In other words, just as all ani-
mals of a certain species collectively form the body of the
overshadowing group-soul of that species, whose life-force
and consciousness animates them all, so does all mankind
form the manifested body of the Cosmic Christ, who stands
as the Group Soul of all humanity. Because of this we
rightly speak of the Christ within and say, "Thou are in
me and I in Thee." It is the innoculation of man's physical
body with this higher spiritual Christ substance which dif-
ferentiates man's body from that of all other animals.
The word "eat" is used to emphasize the fact that what-
270 The Inner Radiance
ever is eaten is carried to every tissue and becomes an in-
tegral part of our bodies. In this sense, eating of this
manifested body of the Christ means that we must on-
operate with and assimilate His constructive forces and
ideals to the greater nourishment of our individual and col-
lective lives. Hence we should not expect an individualiza-
tion of the Christ in addition to this collective manifestation
until mankind has so far demonstrated its brotherhood as
to form an international body of disciples in whose midst
the phenomenal manifestation can take place as of old.
When we realize this mighty truth of the oneness of all
humanity we will see the essential unity and brotherhood of
all mankind, not only spiritually, but also in this physical
sense. We will see that all are God's children, all who are
born in every sign of the Round Table of the Zodiac. Only
as we understand and admit this great truth and recognize
the Christ as our King standing in the midst of all mankind,
can we consciously partake of that mystic Bread and Wine
which shall make us His true Knights of the Holy Grail.
Not only does this legend reveal the inner symbology of
the twelve signs of the zodiac which surround their central
point, represented by the Sun, King Arthur or the Holy
Grail, but it also refers to a fact of prehistorical days. For
in the very early days of mankind, when the Masters walked
and talked with men and taught them face to face, the basis
of this tale was an actual fact upon the physical plane. For
there was a special court of a King Arthur (which means
White Knight) and his Lady. And there were twelve chief
Knights, honest, loyal and true, who had their seats at the
Round Table, akho there were many other Knights and
their ladies in addition. While this White Knight always
had his bride, and his bride is always at the Round Table
with the King, in the outer symbology she does not appear
except as a great mystical overshadowing, representing the
Holy Ghost Hence history has mùch trouble in locating
or placing the Bride.
The Round Table 271
While history tells us either that King Arthur and his
Lady are but mythical characters or that King Arthur waz
merely a great hunter and chieftain who had to protect his
country from marauders, and that his wife was the weaver
of the wondrous apparelspiritual understandingwhich
each Knight donned crc he took his place around the Table,
yet in reality there were two prehistorical characters around
whom all the various myths, legends, operas and stories are
woven. They were the rulers of the first human dynasty
established by the Masters as They gradually withdrew from
the outer guidance of mankind. These two were, indeed,
King and Queen "by divine right," a doctrine so little un-
derstood and so degenerated in modern times. The court
thus established was one of peace, harmony and co-opera.
tion and through it the Masters introduced to humanity the
perfect and harmonious basic principles of life and govern-
inent.
Strange as it may seem to some, scarcely believable and
almost miraculous, nevertheless it was in those far distant
days and at this perfect court of the White Knight and his
Lady that many, who today find their true spiritual home in
The Order of Christian Mystics, made their first touch with
the Wisdom Religion now expounded by this Order. There
also they first met the Founders of the Order who at that
time were first given the accolade of authority and were
trained in the ability to transmit the Cosmic Wisdom to
humanity. And there are some of you today who sat upon
or stood behind the twelve seats; who lifted up the Sacred
Cup and sipped its nectar; who swore a mighty oath that
while life lasted you would ever be true to the divine prin-
ciples you then understood and espoused, knowing full well
that life is immortal and can never end. And as that mystic
vow was taken the Light of the Shekina descended like a
dove and rested upon the Cup. And because of the descent
of the Shekina, as each partook of the nectar there was in-
stilled into the blood of their mortal bodies the Divine Fire
272 The Inner Radiance
of immortal life. For these Souls, even the mention of that
ceremony will bring a thrill of jo'y and a warm glow to the
heart.
But as the ages rolled on, life after life and experience
after experience gradually overlaid or wiped out the mem-
ory of your baptism and your vow. Some of you incarnated
in the East, some in the West, sonic in the South and some
in the North. You were born in many different tribes and
later on in many different nations. Some of you sat in the
seats of the Twelve first in one age and country and then
in another, according to the Planetary Ruler to whom you
belong or under whose sign you were born, aitho often
not realizing or understanding the position you occupied
or why.
Naturally you forgot the ancient ceremony and the ancient
training as you sank more and more deeply into matter, for
it was necessary for your consciousness to be occupied with
the concerns of the outer world until you learned its major
lessons. Yet always there was a vague longing as for some-
thing you had known and lost; always an unceasing urge to
seek and find your true spiritual home again, even while
learning the outer lessons of the physical world. This was
because your lips had once touched the Sacred Cup, the
Holy Grail, and its Wine of Life flows forever in your
veins, even though the memory Qf that great event is denied
you until you have reached a ceitain stage of spiritual un-
foldment. Nor can we reveal more of it to you.
Today most of the devoted students of this Order have
gone some distance on their great journey up the Mount
of Attainment toward spiritual realization and at-one-ment.
At least most of you have consciously turned your faces
and your footsteps toward your Father's house, your spir-
itual home. You have learned that there is no use turning.
back. There is no use saying: "I am tired of life, tired of
sinning and suffering, of dying and being reborn. Let me
avoid such further experiences." You have gone far be-
The Round Table 273
yond that childish stage and you realize that there is but
one way to progress, and that is ever onward and upward
and inward. Some of you already say: "Because the Round
Table started out from God and goes back to God, I must
fight the good fight until I can once more consciously sit
in my place with my armour on, with my brain and under-
standing clear and with my heart aglow. I must do my duty
in the place where the Great Law stations me until I can
once more see God in the center of the Round Table, radi-
ating everywhere."
In a personal sense the Round Table is the circle of our
aura and our environment. In the center stands our per-
sonal Light Bearer, the Christ within, with our seven cen-
ters and our five senses making up thern twelve Knights
through which He must manifest in our lives. It is for us
so to rule them that they will co-operate with each other
without rivalry or striving for precedence, but will help each
the other, rescuing those in distress and all ever seeking the
Holy Grail. Only as all look within to Him for guidance
can we make our lives a peaceful, harmonious and helpful
court like that of King Arthur.
In the stories of King Arthur and his Knights it is said
that wherever a Knight traveled, even though he went on
foot and dressed in rags, people recognized him because of
his courtesy, his learning, his kindness and his unselfish de-
sire to help others. So they said: "Surely he cometh from
King Arthur's court." As Tennyson expresses it, "When
first thou camestsuch courtesy spake thro' the limbs and
in the voiceI knew thee for one of those who sat in Ar-
thur's hail."' So must those of us today who again aspire
to serve King Arthur be recognized by our tolerance, our
humility, our loving kindness, our joyousness and our un-
selfish service to our fellow men.
While those who represented the White Knight and his
Lady have manifested through many personalities in many
$ IdjU., .f lk. K.ig.
274 The Inner Radiance
long, wearisome incarnations, nevertheless they carry in their
hands the mystic Host. Again today, as of old, the White
Knight is told to take the mystic Bread broken by the Christ
and give it to the hungry world. And she who holds in her
right hand the Mystic Cup which contains the fiery spir-
itual life-force, the Wine which once partaken of never
leaves the body, cries: "Come and drink 1 Drink all who
will and live forever!" This is the crystal Cup from which
all must drink ere their ascension can be made.
Today this mystic Round Table at which some few of
you have found your places, is once more revolving out of
the dense darkness of the ignorance and mistakes of the
past and is coming into the light of recognition. Will you,
can you, dare you once more consciously don the armour of
the Knight you once vowed you would be? Will you take
up the Sword of the Spirit and cleave from you every fault,
failing and imperfection that holds you back from returning
to your place at the Round Table?
This conscious reseating of the Knights around the Table
of the White Knight must be a deliberate choice, and can
be attained only through willing service from the Christ.
This is a mission which does not concern yourselves alone,
but all mankind. Therefore you must face conditions and
realize that as we are passing through the blackest darkness
into the light of a New Day, all the more reason for you to
don the full armour of the Christ4 that you may conquer and
help humanity to find the Way, the Truth and the Life.
4B?h.dU, vi, 1447.
CHAPTER XXXI
DIVINE FIRE
Pizi I. THE Fzw OF LWE AND Mim
"Fire is the most perfect and unadulterated reflection, in Heaven
as on Earth, of the One Flame. It is Life and Death, the origin and
end of every material thing. It is Divine Substance."The Secret
Doctrine. Blavatsky, I, 14&
"life Seven Beings in the Sun are the Seven Holy Ones, sdf-born
from the inherent power of the Matrix of Mother-Substance. It is
they who send out the seven principle Forces, called Rays.... The
energy, from which they spring into Conscious existence in every Sun,
is what some people call Vishnu, which is the Breath of the Abso-
luteness."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 310.
"He who tells thee he has seen the Sun, laugh at him, as if he had
said that the Sun moves really onward in his diurnal path."The
Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 310.
The whole universe and all its forms of life are but mani-
festations of Divine Fire; for this Fire is the cause of mo-
tion, and matter is but retarded motion or motion temporarily
crystallized objectively into latency. The biblical statement
that, "Our God is a consuming fire," refers to that formless
Divine Essence, that invisible "cold flame" whose three-fold
aspect constitutes the animating power of the invisible Spir-
itual Sun whose inailifestations we call God, and of which
our physical Sun is but a focal point or servant of manifesta-
tion in the physical universe.
The basic manifestation of this Divine Fire is that alcashic
energy which composes the internal fires or radiant energy
which occupies the central core of the Sun, of the Earth, of
the atom, of the proton and of our bodies. it is the basic
vibration of our whole solar system and is that which vital-
275
276 The Inner Radiance
izes all matter with electronic energy, and all life with rana1
and bodily heat; for all life requires some degree of heat,
absence of heat being death, according to science "absolute
zero" being annihilation. This akashic Fire is the animating,
rotary, centripetal form of energy which holds the whole
material universe in objective manifestation, from flaming
comets and blazing Suns around which universes circle, down
to the red tips of most sprouts of vegetation as they first
emerge from soil or bud, and also those lowly manifestations
of fire or combustion (oxidation) found in rusting iron and
in the decay of old age.
As we recognize the manifestations of radiant energy in
suns and stars, in electrons and protons, in chemical affinity
and in radium and radio-active substances, we should thank
God for His mighty Love thus expressed in these lowly as-
pectsof Divine Fire.
If we are really to understand Divine Fire we can do so
only by studying Fire and its manifestations as we know it
on Earth, realizing the while that this most mysterious and
practically unknown element is but a manifestation of Divin-
ity. Scientific men have declared that, "The first use of
fire, and the discovery of the methods by which it can be
kindled are all discoveries with which, in ingenuity and im-
portance, no subsequent discoveries may compare." Yet
science also says that, "Fire is that which has ever eluded
definite analysis. . . . The lighting of a fire by a flame is
a scientific difficulty, yet few people think so."
Thus is Fire considered by science as both a philosophi-
cal and a scientific mystery. And well may it be so con-
sidered, for in reality it is not an earthly element at all, but
a vehicle for the manifestation of the Godhead. It is not
surprising then that the very heart of all religions springs
iWe here use the word r.e. in It. genetic sense., the master vibntoa
hence It Includes its subdivisions of spas., vys.a, comas.
&rgyls.
Divine Fire 277
from the thought of Fire in one form or another, from the
worship of the Sun as its source and the adoration of the
perpetual Flame upon the altars of the Ancients, to the
Christian statement that "Our God is a consuming fire."
That which is known on earth as Fire is but the lowest
and outermost covering of the highest element, that which
brought forth the manifested universe; in fact, air is a
fluidic, water a liquid and earth a solid manifestation of
Fire. Fire, being a manifestation of Divinity, naturally has
a three-fold manifestation on Earth; heat (terrestrial fire),
light (solar fire) and electricity (elemental fire). These
three manifestations are sometimes called the Three Moth-
ers,4 or the creative forces which fructify all things. They
also stand for body, Soul and Spirit. Thus heat (red) rep-
resents the body, light (yellow), the Soul and electricity,
energy or force (blue), the Spirit. Other synonymous terms
are Love, Life and Will. Fire also represents intelligence
heat, light and electricity being the vehicles through which
Divine Intelligence manifests or brings forth in the lower
worlds and kingdoms.
The Ancients gave to Fire a seven-fold expression, three
of which were Divine and four terrestrial. In the center
of the universe they placed a sphere of "Etheric Fire" which
was called "cold flame" because it radiated Light without
heat. It was also called the "Celestial Sun" in the center
of the universe. We would term it the as yet unmanifested
Christ resting on the bosom of the Father or the Throne
of God. Around this Celestial Sun the Ancients placed a
sphere of "Spiritual Energy" or the "Sea of Fire round
about the Throne," which emanated from the seemingly
motionless central Sun. The emanations of this Spiritual
Energy went forth into manifestation as the One Life which
is the cause of the ceaseless and incessant generation of all
things.
Next, the Ancients conceived of a sphere of "Invisible Es-
4 See The Key to te U,.ivers,. Cudiu. 119.
278 The Inner Radiance
sence" or "mind-stuff" through which consciousness mani-
fests. This was the vehicle of the Divine Consciousness
which manifests throughout the universe and through man
as the Light of Intellect, Sound and human Speech. This
is poetically expressed as, "The Mind is the Bride of
Heaven" and becomes the "Virgin of Earth," bringing forth
in the fields of earth the seed of the heavenly or Christ-
consciousness. The Vedas say that, "The heart, excited by
Divine Love, becomes creative and from it the senses ema-
nate." These three are the trinitarian manifestations of God
as Life, Truth and Love.
According to one classification, the four terrestrial mani-
festations or fires are first, Light, the Creator; for only
when Spiritual Energy has put the mind-stuff into motion
and generated mental energy, and Light was conceived of,
could the Word go forth, "Let there be Light, and there
was Light." Thus Light becomes the Manifested Creator.
The second terrestrial Fire was Heat, the Preserver,
the result of the manifestation of the Light meeting
the resistance of Earth, and the vehicle of its life-current;
for without heat no terrestrial life can exist. The third was
Electricity, which they called Regeneration. It is regenera-
tion because, being the third physical expression of Fire, it
stands directly under the thir& spiritual expression, Invis-
ible Essence or mind-stuff, the vehide of Spiritual Energy
or Divine Consciousness. Hence no regeneration is possible
until the mind of man has reached a point directly under and
is overshadowed by Spiritual Energy. In other words, until
man works consciously with and makes his mind a vehicle
for the Divine Consciousness.
Electrical energy is such a vehicle to the lower worlds, that
which we ordinarily call electricity being but the outer gar.
ment, while its inner essence is derived directly from the
Invisible Essence of Divine Fire. The fourth aspect of ter-
restrial fire they called Subterranean Fire, the Destroyer.
The work of the Subterranean Fire is to purify, eliminate
Divine Fire 279
and transmute; that of the Heat is to manifest as unselfish
love, ardor and service for mankind; that of the Light is
to produce illumination in the heart and mind and shine forth
from all the centers of the body, and that of Electricity is
to produce never-ceasing activity and illimitable power, a
sense of oneness with all life, and manifest the perfect image
of God.
We endorse this seven-fold classification as it correlates
with the biblical presentation of the subject which we follow.
The akashic aspect of Divine Fire manifesting through
the Sun sends its radio-active essence down into the heart of
the Earth, down into the depths of the hard and apparently
solid rock where its vibrations are instrumental in the forma-
tion of gold and jewels and other precious substances which
man can use for the better fulfilling of the Law.. It also
sends down its actinic and pranic rays which are absorbed
and embodied in everything that grows: in the gigantic trees,
in the tiny blades of grass, in the flowers of the field, in the
modest woodland blooms that hide behind the rocks in shady
nooks. Not a thing in the universe is overlooked or for-
gotten. "It is in the Sun, as it is in the glow worm. Not
an atom can escape it. Therefore, the ancient Sages have
wisely called it the manifested God in Nature."
And as the rays of the Sun are embodied in all forms
of life in Nature they vitalize within all those thingseach
in its own place in its own kingdomthe inner pattern of
its form and the outworking of its destiny. It is as though
the finger of God reached down and wrote in one: "Lo,
thou shalt be a giant sequoia and shalt lift thy head high
into the blue sky and rear thy mighty trunk and spread thy
branches to the winds of heaven for many ages. This is the
destiny that I have given thee. Fulfill thou it." Then He
stooped down and touched with His finger the tiny blades
of grass and said: "Grow here. Thy destiny is to spread
and be prolific and provide food for the cattle that are upon
I Tb. SecvØ D.csd.e, Blavatiky, 311.
280 The Inner Radiance
a thousand hills. Make a gentle covering for the Earth and
a green background, soft and beautiful and restful to the
eye of man. May the many little flowers that I have planted
find their gem-like homes in the shelter of thy blades." To
man He said: "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the
earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over. . . every
living thing that moveth upon the earth." Thus to each
form in Nature is given its destiny and its place in mani-
festing the great Fire of Divine Love, even though we can-
not see the pattern or the mystic rays.
As we view the annual miracle of the changing seasons
and recognize the manifestations of the Fire of Life in the
swelling buds, in the upshooting sprouts, in the unfolding
leaves and in the blossoms bursting into beauty and fra-
grance; in the warmth of the mother bird that hatches her
eggs, and brings forth her fledglings, and in the appearance
of bee and butterfly, let us again thank God for His mighty
Love manifesting in this higher aspect of Divine Fire.
This Earth might have been created as a world of mere
utility and without beauty. It might have been a globe filled
merely with the forces and materials necessary for life, with
only the substances needed for humanity to manifest here
and gain certain necessary experiences in matter. But it is
not such a merely utilitarian giobe, because Divine Will pro-
jected it in harmony and co.ordination and Divine Love
brought it forth in beauty.
The Flame of God which emanates from the Spiritual Sun
had to create the world in such a way that it would be a
focus through which its mighty Rays of Divine Fire might
be filtered and their high cosmic vibrations toned down and
tempered to manifest in this infant stage of planetary- and
human unfoldment, much as we dilute food for an infait,
knowing that its ultimate destiny is to manifest in the full-
grown beauty of perfection. Over these Rays from the
Father-Mother-Fire there comes to each of us the power
to manifest Their life, love and beauty. And to the degree
Dvine Fire 281
that we allow these Rays to unfold the pattern of our des-
tiny they will manifest in the beauty of perfection; the
beauty and perfection of body, of mind and of Soul.
As we recognize in our fellow men the Fire of Love and
brotherhood manifesting in all the races and classes of man-
kind, even the most unevolved and backward, let us again
thank God for His unending Love manifesting in this still
higher human aspect of Divine Fire.
The second major aspect of Divine Fire to be considered
is that aspect of Solar Fire which constitutes Divine Idea-
tion. This is the animating principle of the mind of the
Logos or the Divine Mind, whose individualized sparks were
implanted in man by the "Sons of Mind" during the middle
of thee Third Great Race the Lemuriansand which were
later developed into what we now call mind or intellect dur-
ing the Fourth Great Racethe Atlantéans. Thus it is that
mind, as the vehicle for the manifestation of the conscious-
ness of the Real or Spiritual Self, is the link between Spirit
and matter, between life and form. Mind is, therefore, the
indispensable channel through which the consciousness of
the Spirit finds expression and evolution in the world of mat-
ter and form.
As the lower Fire of Life is rotary and centripetal in its
form of manifestation that it may consolidate matter into
form, so the Fire of Mind is spiral.and expansive or cen-
trifugal in its form of manifestation, that it may expand
man's consciousness to the Divine. And it is because of our
ability gradually to expnd our consciousness as we evolve
spiritually and unfold our destiny that we are ultimately able
to return to that Center of Divine Fire from which we ema-
nated; that Center which is both the origin and the ultimate
goal of attainment of the individual. It is because we p05-
sess an individualized Spark of Mind that we of the fourth
kingdom have independent minds or self-consciousness, in-
I For detsfls sçe Th, V.(c .1 liii, Curds., 333.
T
282 The Inner Radiance
stead of group-consciousness as found among the three lower
ldngdoms.
It is because our mind is a spark of the Divine Mind that
it must necessarily manifest in a three-fold aspect like the
Divine Trinity. These three aspects are called the Spir-
itual Mind, the human mind and the animal mind, or the
Super-Conscious Mind (Higher Manas), the rational mind
(lower manas) and the sub-conscious mind (kama manas).
But it must be remembered that these are not three different
minds, but only three aspects of the one mind of man. It
is as though the mind of God reached down into our animal
body and implanted in our solar plexus a lowly aspect of His
consciousness and said: "Thou shalt be the ruler of the
physical body and the consciousness of all its cells, tissues
and organs. Thou shalt direct all its myriad complex chemi-
cal combinations and all its physiological functions and re-
flex acts. Thou shalt carry on all the animal aspects of life
so harmoniously and wholesomely that the entire body shall
be a healthy and happy servant and instrument for the mani-
festation in matter of My higher forms of consciousness.
This is thy destiny. Fulfull thou it." Thus it is that the
sub-conscious mind possesses the wonderful intelligence re-
quired to carry on all the functions of bodily life, such as
circulation, respiration, digestion, assimilation, excretion and
repair, as well as those enormously intricate and marvelous
reflex acts which adapt the body to the ever-changing condi-
tions of heat and cold, moisture and drought, low barometer
and high barometer, variations in altitude, work, play, rest,
sleep, emotions, etc. -
Then God planted a brighter and higher emanation of
His consciousness in our minds and said: "Thou shalt be
the vehicle of My consciousness in man and woman, through
whom alone I can consciously manifest in humanity. Thou
shalt reach outward and respond to the vibrations õf -the
outer world and report them to thy Higher Self in terms of
Divine Fire 283
sensation and consciousness. But thou shalt not forget to
reach inward and respond to the vibrations of thy Divine
Guidance that thoù mayest govern the desires of thy animal
instrument and the vanities and selfishness of thy personal-
ity, and manifest that Guidance in all thy ways. This is
thy destiny. Follow thou it."
As we recognize the manifestation of the Fire of Mind
in our fellow men, even among the most ignorant and un-
lettered, let us once more thank God for His all-embracing
Love manifesting to us through this mental aspect of Divine
Fire.
While comparatively few minds have embodied sufficient
of the Fire of Illumination to be able directly to grasp and
express the high ideals and inspirations of the Real or Spir-
itual Man, nevertheless all are gradually learning to do so
more and more in each incarnation, according to the degree
of spiritualization their minds have attained. This is not
an attainment which comes automatically, but is something
that must be striven for more or less consciously in each in-
carnation. For if we allow our minds to be filled con-
tinually only with the vibrations coming into them from
the things of the outer life and the appetites and desires of
the flesh, we build into our minds corpuscles of mental sub-
stance, called "mentoids," of so low a rate of vibration that
they respond only to the lower fires of passions and desires
and ideas of the outer life. Being thus unable to release our
consciousness from such lower vibrations we frequently give
way to and experience the negative or destructive aspect of
Divine Fire, the heat of anger, passion, animal desire and
all the lower and destructive emotions. These lower fires
are not creative or constructive but are the destructive fires
which upset the normal functions of the body, through their
effect upon the subconscious mind, the sympathetic nervous
system and the endocrine glands, and thus cause inhibition
of the normal nerve currents with the resulting congestion,
284 The Inner Radiance
sickness, disease and suffering. If such lower fires are al-
lowed frequent manifestation they will ultimately burn out
and disintegrate our physical instrument and deprive our
Real Self of its vehicle of manifestation on Eùth and thus
prevent the step in its unfoldment which this incarnation
should afford.
On the other hand, if we seek continually for our Divine
Guidance, through prayer and aspiration, looking inward and
upward instead of outward and downward, and responding
more to the within than to the without, we will fill our minds
with mentoids or corpuscles of a far higher and more spir-
itual quality which can and will respond to the higher
Spiritual Fire and allow our minds to be released from limi-
tations of the lower fires, and thus enable our spiritual
consciousness to guide and control all our thoughts and emo-
tions and therefore all the words and acts of the human
personality.
Every prayer and aspiration, every effort to live up to our
highest ideals, every effort to express peace, love, joy and
happiness builds more and more spiritualized mentoids into
our minds. And as these grow in number and displace the
mentoids which respond only to the lower fires, we experi-
ence the warm glow of love, brotherhood, compassion and
unselfishness and finally the fire of spiritual exaltation and
ecstasy.
Thus, to the degree of our sincere aspirations and efforts
to follow our Divine Guidance do we draw down and build
into our minds actual atoms of Spiritual Fire whose spir-
itual radio-activity will so purify and transmute the lower
atoms of both our minds and our bodies that they will both
rejoice to respond to and express the Divine Fire of our
Real or Spiritual Self so that without the usual resistance
and opposition of the lower atoms we will do His will on
Earth even as it is done in heaven.
"Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatso-
ever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, what-
Divine Fire 285
soever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, what-
soever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and
if there be any praise, think on these things. . . and the
peace of God shall be with you."
(To be concluded)
TPhilps Lv, $-9.
CHAPTER XXXII
DIVINE FIRE
Ptii II. THE BUDDING Fran
11F'or Simon . . . Fire contained all. And thus all parts of that
Fire being endowed with intelligence and reason, was susceptible of
development by extension and emanation. This is our teaching of
the Manifested Logos, and these parts in their primordial emana-
tions are our 'Sons of Flame and Fire.' "The Secret Doctrine, Bla-
vatsky, iii, 466.
Manas, though oce remove on the downward plane from Buddhi,
is still so immeasurably higher than the physical man that it cannot
enter into direct relation with the personality, except through its re-
flection, the. lower mind. Manas is Spiritual Self-Cossciousneu in it-
self, and Divine Consciousness when united with Buddhi."The
Secret Doctrine. Blavatsky, iii, SIS.
"0 almighty Father-Mother! Thou who art all Wisdom and Love
Divine! Thou whose messengers like flames are ever hovering near,
enter into the midst of us Thy children and manifest Th1'self in the
greatness of Thy glory! Fill our hearts with a realization of Th
Love, and our minds with an understanding of Thy wisdom and wit
a burning zeal to accomplish Thy work. Help us to manifest now.
even as we are destined to do, the glory of Thy indwelling Presence."
Invocation to tile Flame, Curtiss.
The cosmic Divine Fire which composes the Central Flame
of the Universe burns in all worlds and in all realms. On
Earth it manifests in a four-fold manner through the four
primal elements, earth, air, fire and water, and their various
subdivisions and kingdoms. In the previous Chapter we
have shown how this Divine Fire manifests in the mineral
kingdom as the Fire of Electronic and Radio-activity and
commonly connected with chemical activity; in the vegetable
kingdom as the Fire of Life; in the animal kingdom as tue
Fire of Mind and in the human kingdom as the Fire of Self-
286
Divine Fire 287
consciousness. We have also shown that in each kingdom
the manifestation of Divine Fire is also an expression of
Divine Love; for Divine Fire is the outshining radiance of
God, and God is Love.
Think you, therefore, that a God of Life and Love and
Beauty would thus embody a radiant aspect of Himself in
all the multitudinous forms in all the kingdoms of Nature
and forget man, the summit of evolution and the crowning
point of all creation? Think you that He would embody an
aspect of Himself in everything that is and would overlook
man who is made in His image and after the likeness of the
seven-fold Elohim?
God so loved Nature that He gave her the great focus
of physical radiance, the physical Sun, to be her light and
life and to manifest her destiny. But to man He gave the
great focus of spiritual radiance, His only begotten Son, His
first-born, the chief of all His attributes, the Spirit of His
Love, the great and mighty Christ-love, to be embodied in
each heart in potency, for man to unfold and let it become
his light and life, and to manifest his destiny. For what
good would the mystic fires of the seven-fold planetary Hi-
erarchies be to man's spiritual unfoldment if there were not
this spiritual Sun of Righteousness in his heart occupying
the central point or throne of his being and able to respond
to the spiritual Hierarchies?
As the physical Sun occupies the throne of Nature whence
emanates the forces of its light and life, so the heart is the
throne of man whence emanate the forces of his spiritual
light and life. Yet that life is but a manifestation of love
which is God. The Father-Mother forces of God are the
bringers-forth in the beauty of holiness of the Inner Man,
the Christ within. And since Love is God, Divine Love is
the great and one supreme Fire of the Universe which de-
scends in its seven-fold aspects to each division and king-
dom of the universe. And because the universe is thus born
of Love, unfolded in Love and fostered in Love, it manifests
288 The Inner Radiance
in each kingdom in harmony and beauty, wherever not per-
verted by man.
The beauty of the body embraces both beauty of form
and beauty of function or perfect health manifesting through
well regulated and perfectly co-ordinated organs, muscles
and nerves. The beauty of mind embraces not only a har-
moniously developed brain, but also intellectual discrimina-
tion and the ability to control and co-ordinate our thoughts
and their expressions to the greater manifestation of the in-
dwelling Higher Self and the glory of God. The beauty of
Soul embraces both a harmonious, happy and loving disposi-
tion and the ability to recognize our Divine origin, together
with an unquenchable desire to seek union with and to mani-
fest our Divine Self. Only as man has failed to grasp and
undei'stand the Divine Plan and the destiny of this marvelous
and beautiful world, and also the destiny of humanity and
himself, and has therefore brought forth after his own imag-
inings, lusts and selfish desires instead of according to the
Divine Plan, do we find the note of inharmony, impurity
and lack of beauty manifested in Nature and in man himself.
But to manifest the beauty of the Spiritual Self man must
seek for it, must learn to understand its nature and reach up
for it and bring down to Earth and embody it in his con-
sciousness and life through contacting the next higher Fire,
the Buddhic Fire. For this Buddhic Fire reaches up to
Atma and reflects all that is in the auric envelop, i.t., that
which is destined to manifest during this incarnation.1
The Buddhic Fire is, therefore, the highest aspect of
Divine Fire which can manifest on Earth through a mortal.
For to manifest the great Auric Fire we must have entered
the fifth or superhuman or Divine Kingdom wherein we are
no longer merely separate mortals, but have become one with
all, enclosed within the Divine Egg of the great Bird of
Life. But since the Auric Fire of the Divine Self and the
Atmic Fire of the Universal Spirit are so far above the
lTb, Secr. DcSriu,,, Blavatak7, 10, 375-518.
Divine Fire 289
comprehension of the average student we will confine our-
selves to an explanation of the Buddhic Fire.
This Buddhic Fire, while far above the vibrations of the
consciousness of ordinary man, nevertheless belongs to hu-
inanity, for it is a Ray of the Spiritual Self implanted in
the heart of man, just as a ray of the physical Sun is im-
planted in the seed or nudeus of every living thing in the
lower kingdoms. Therefore, if we are consciously to set
out upon the Great Quest of how to become Sons of God,
or rather how to manifest the Sonship we already inherently
possess as "heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ" or
luminous points of light to reflect His glory, then we must
strive until we learn to draw down and manifest this Buddhic
Fire in our hearts and lives.
And this Fire is Love. For just as the radio-active es-
sence of the physical Sun penetrates the Earth and there
coagulates its essence into gold and jewels and other pre-
cious substances, so does the spiritually radio-active essence
of the Buddhic Fire of Divine Love penetrate deep into the
soil of our hearts and lives and there creates veins of spir-
itual gold, jewels of great price and spiritual riches beyond
compare, which are. ours for the digging and bringing to
the surface, but which are not thrown into our laps with
no effort on our part any more than is the physical gold or
jewels.
We need not be discouraged when great occult and philo-
sophical authorities tell us that: "Consciousness per .rc, as
understood and explained by Occult philosophy, is the high-
est sentient spiritual principle in us, the Divine Soul or
Buddhi and our own Higher Ego, and does not belong to
the plane of materiality," and "is still so immeasurably
higher than the physical man, that it cannot enter into di-
rect relation with the personality, except through its reflec-
tion, the lower mind." For as we begin to manifest the
Fire of Divine Love it will so consume the impurities and
dross accumulated in the lower mind through wrong think-
290 The Inner Radiance
ing, wrong teaching and wrong response to the lower fires
which impurities make the lower mind more or less opaque
to the Divine Lightthat ultimately that Light will shine
through more and more dearly.
It is like a lighted lantern casting shadows on a wall. The
wall is our body and brain and our environment, all our
outer conditions through and in which we manifest. The
glass globe through which the light shines is the lower mind.
The light in the lantern is the Higher Mind, while the fire
which produces the light within is the Buddhic Fire. It is
therefore our great duty to wipe off the dust of material
thoughts and the muddy blotches of impurity which becloud
and disfigure the globe or lens of our lower mind so that
the spiritual Light of the Higher Mind can shine through
unimpeded and without casting distorted shadows on our
brain, in our body and in our environment. Thus will the
Divine Light dissipate the shadows and multiply the rays
we are able to manifest as good and constructive thoughts,
words and deeds.
As long as the lens of our mind remains unpurified, the
dust of material thoughts and the blotches of impurity upon
it dim the Light to a murky gleam or perhaps a dull red
glare instead of letting through the dear white Light that
is shining within our hearts. It is this murky gleam of
materialism and the dull red glare of animalism that are
called the "lower fires" which burn so consumingly in the
lives of the less developed and sense-ridden mass of human-
ity, and which emit their acrid and stifling smoke and spread
their effluvia over all their environment and over all hu-
manity.
When such undeveloped Souls pass on from the physical
into the astral world they find themselves surrounded by
the corresponding fires of the lower regions of that world.
From those regions many such persons strive to quench the
torch of Spiritual Light which the more advanced Souls are
seeldngto light and keep burning in the hearts of mankind.
Divine Fire 291
For that Spiritual Light illumines and reveals in all its
hideousness the wickedness and evil with which such un-
developed ones are surrounded. That is one reason why
they strive so hard to influence the sensitive followers of
the Light, to stimulate their selfishness and their lower fires
of passion azd desire and subject them to those fires of dis-
solution which to those in the lower astral realms seem to
be life, but which to those who are striving to light the
Buddhic Fire would be death or a spiritual darkness worse
than death.
Therefore, in this Aquarian Age when the veil between
the astral and the physical worlds is becoming thinner and
thinner, there is a mighty struggle taking place. The dark,
lurid fires of the lower astral, or what is commonly called
the fires of hell, are burning fiercely. And every mortal
who opens his aura to them by giving way to inharmony,
anger, lust or selfishness allows those astral fires to rush in
and sweep him away far bcyond anything he had intended,
just as the tiny, seemingly insignificant dead leaves in a
forest are capable of starting a disastrous forest fire.
But all who are lighting the Buddhic Fire are generating
that which will consume the lower fires, both in themselves
and in humanity as a whole. They are like forest Rangers
who start back-fires, across which the lower fires cannot
reach them. Therefore, in using such invocations to the
Divine Light as our "Prayer for Light" or the "Protecting
Invocation" we invoke the descent of the Buddhic Fire and
put around ourselves the Ring-pass-not, the Ring of Flame,
within which no inharmonious or evil thing can penetrate
without being consumed by that Divine Fire. For it will
consume all that cannot respond to its spiritual rate of vi-
bration; all the inharmonious conditions it touches in our
bodies, in our minds and in our lives, and extract from them
their essence of good which has been perverted into evil.
Sudden, unusual and unaccountable bursts of anger, an-
tagonisin, lust or destructiveness are in reality astral attacks
292 The Inner Radiance
from those evil ones who have seen the Light of the Torch
of Spirituality which we have lighted and who seek to invade
our minds, our auras and our lives with the lower fires of
their burning hell-like astral conditions so as to make us
like unto themselves and, therefore, avenues for their ex-
pression on Earth. Everyone who responds to them be-
comes a fire-brand in every walk of life; in the social,
religious, industrial or political life of humanity. On the
other hand, all who are striving to light the Buddhic Fire
of love and spiritual illumination, also become fire-brands
to spread the Fire of Divine Love and Life: become torch-
bearers for the Christ whose radio-active Light will consume
all evil and stimulate all good.
The Buddhic Fire is the Soul of things, the life of life,
whose radiance we call the Christ-light, the Soul's supreme
comprehension and manifestation of spiritual light, life and
love. And since this Spiritual Fire is above the plane of
physical manifestation, it nu.st be reached u for by man
and be brouqht down and lit in his heart. Even though it
be but a tiny glow at first, like all fire it will spread and ulti-
mately consume all evil and bring forth in us the seeds of
inspiration, of realization, of power to accomplish and to
manifest our godlikeness. For this Buddhic Fire not only
illumines our minds and purifies our lives, but it also fills
our hearts with Divine Love and a great longing to manifest
our Divine Self through our purified personality. This is
the great mission for which we came into physical incarna-
tion.1
Once our minds have been illumined by this Divine Fire
we no longer look upon the world with ordinary mortal
vision and see only its imperfections, its sordidness and sin,
its ignorance, its selfishness and its spiritual darkness and
unbrotherliness, Instead we see the Flame of Divine Life
and Love and Beauty everywhere, striving to manifest more
I Sec lesson TAe Object of Physic.! Esistecce or Why We C.ii,. to EectA.
Curtl.s.
Divine Fire 293
and more nearly perfectly through the limitations placed
upon it by the physical vehicles through which it has to
manifest on Earth. No longer is our attention focused upon
the lack of understanding, hence misconceptions: upon the
lack of unfoldment, hence the mistakes, of our less evolved
brethren, nor do we carpingly criticize those who are not as
evolved as ourselves. Instead, we see the faint glow of the
Divine Light in their hearts like a coal of fire, but so cov-
ered over with ashes that neither its light nor its warmth
can manifest. And our hearts yearn with tenderness to teach
all such that the material things to which they cling so des-
perately that they obscure the Divine Light are but ashes
which only clog the manifestation of their Real Selves and
prevent them from attaining that peace, rest and utter sat-
isfaction which they are striving to obtain from outer things,
but which already exists within if they will but let it mani-
fest.
To light the Buddhic Fire let us turn within and pray:
"0 Divine Father-Mother fill me so full of the Fire of
Divine Life and Love that there shall be no corner of my
mind or body or environment that is not touched. Let it
illumine every phase of my life and fill it with Thy Love.
Let it lie dose to my heart and from there overflow and
radiate into the most trivial tasks that my hands find to
do, that I may demonstrate Thy Presence in all things. Let
it go out with my mind to the infinite shores of conscious-
ness and bring me a realization of Thy infinite extension
and power. Yet let the realization of Thy imminent Presence
within me be like a torch which shall light my Path and be
a beacon to lead unto Thee all who can see the manifesta-
tion of Thy Light."
294
CHAPTER XXXIII
THE GLORY OF THE LORD
"His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
And His brightness was as the light."I-Iabakkuk, iii, 3-4.
"So the Spirit took me up. and brought me into the inner court, and
behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house. And I heard him
speaking unto me."EzekicI, xliii, 5-6.
There is a glory of the Sun and of the Moon and of the
stars: a glory of the earth, the sea and the sky, and a glory
of every one of the saints and masters, but there is only
one God, one divine Eternal Being from everlasting to ever-
lasting, and He is the King of Glory. He it is who sits upon
His throne of glory and dispenses the glory of the universe:
the mighty, everlasting, univetsal cosmic fonts which are
back of all manifestations in the universe. All His mani-
festations bow before Him and, acting as His handmaidens
and servants, do His bidding on Earth and in heaven, even
as we His children, the offspring of His loins, should bow
before Him and serve Him in our lives. "0 Lord, how
manifold are thy works I In wisdom hast thou made them
all: the earth is full of thy riches."
God is a poor term to use as applied to Him, for it has
been made common by being used to designate both the
personified forces of Nature and the unseen rulers of the
different nations and peoples which are called national or
tribal gods. it is even used to designate those artificial
elementals' which are created by man's imagination and
thought-force and which are propitiated and maintained by
1 p,.q,, cv, 24-30.
2For detaili jee R,.Jwa of She Livssg Deed. Curtlu, 7$.
The Glory of the Lord 295
savage ceremonies which involve the shedding of blood of
fowls, bullocks, sheep and goats, and sometimes of human
beings. It is used to designate pictures and images of wood
and stone. In fact, it is used for all objects and beings
which man in his ignorance worships instead of the Eternal
Being. Theiefore, we will not call this one, all-inclusive
Eternal Being God, but the King of Glory.
At first thought one might naturally suppose that, like the
popular conception of heaven, a Being so divine, so glorious,
so transcendent, must be afar off. But He is not. While
this King of Glory is mighty, like all mighty things He is
simple. He is close to the heart of every child of man,
wrapped around in Spirit, in great understanding, in un-
believable love and compassion. He is closer than hand or
foot, than brain or heart. Therefore, there is no God, no
being, no master or teacher so close to us, to our hearts, to
our minds, to our understanding, as this Being of all Beings,
this one God, eternal in the heavens, the King of Glory.
And over our individualized Ray of Himself we can ascend
in aspiration to His very presence and absorb the down-
pouring of His graciousness until our hearts shall rejoice
and be enlarged because of the abundance of His glory and
His love. And it shall shine out like a beacon of light upon
the troubled waters of our lives and provide a safe haven
for us to seek in time of trouble.
But how are we to make the correlation with Him so that
our consciousness can recognize His presence and His glory?
How can we come closer to Him? How can we bow at His
footstool? How stand at His right hand, ready to do His
bidding? There is simply one great command: "Love ye
one another." For this Eternal Being is not only the King
of Glory, He is also the Lord of Love: for Love, Divine
Love, is the crowning jewel of His glory. Each one of us
has felt His hand of love at some time in our lives and has
tried to love in return, but until we came into some realiza-
tion of His glory and correlated with the outpouring of His
296 The Inner Radiance
Love we could not know nor comprehend it with our outer,
rational minds: for only through the heart can we realize
or express love.
Should anyone question that He is the Lord of Love, let
some great trial or dread experience or bereavement come
into his life or some great disaster to humanity, and when
all human comfort or hope fails and he cries out to God for
help, He will never fail to come to such a one to comfort
and carry him through his trial. It is this glory of His Love
that He pours out upon all who call upon and worship Him,
upon all who seek Him in humility and receptiveness.
But we must learn how to worship Him truly. When
we do this we are told, "That He would grant you, according
to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with might
by His Spirit in the inner man; that Christ may dwell in
your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in
love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is
the breadth, and length, and height; and to know the love
of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled
with all the fullness of God."
Every Age, as it begins its manifestation on Earth, has its
own definite and particular message from the Eternal One,
the King of Glory. If this is so, why does He need so many
helpers and ministers to help enlighten mankind and bring
them to a realization of His reality and His presence? This
question arises out of the ignorance of man: his lack of
understanding. For while the glory of God manifesfs to
mankind in all the realms of Nature, on Earth and in the
heavens, and while He speaks to each heart in the Still
Small Voice, He cannot give His message to mankind ex-
cept through man; through trained seers and seeresses who
can hear and understand His Voice and who endeavor to
express His meaning in the best language they can muster,
colored, modified and limited, naturally, by the training and
education their minds have received.
$ BpMta., III, 16-19.
The Glory of the Lord 297
The days are coming, aye, are now here, when the world
is running too and fro seeking this one and that to teach
them. They recognize their ignorance and lack of under-
standing of spiritual things and are so eager for knowledge
that they follow the teachers who make the greatest claims,
those who seek out the wonderful, high-sounding phi-
losophies of the past and pour them into the ears of the
hungry ones. Yet, in most instances, this is but feeding
them upon the dry bones of former expressions of truth not
suited to modern times and from which the Spirit has been
indrawn to manifest in more modern vehicles. So we hear
on all sides, "LO here! Lo there! I have the truth. All
wisdom is mine. Come to me and learn the truth." But
while we may be helped by listening to various intellectual
interpretations of truth, there is but one Voice which can
give us all truth and which we must learn to listen to and
obey, the Voice of the King of Glory who speaks in the
Silence, yet whose mighty pulsating vibrations fill the uni-
verse. Even through the darkness of ignorance and in the
depths of misunderstanding and misery we can feel a mys.
terious something which we are not able to understand. It
has penetrated our hearts and awakened our minds, so that
there is not a Soul on this planet who has not at some time
felt that touch of Eternal Love which comes direct from the
King of Glory.
But where two or three are gathered together in His name
there His glory shines round about them; there sinks His
mighty Love into their hearts and brings forth, if the soil
be suitable, some of the seeds of spiritual attainment which
are destined to grow into a Tree of Life which will both
symbolize and bring forth in the New Age into which we
have now entered. What is it that we feel? What do we
hear? What thrills all through our body? What vibrates
in the air and makes it seem like radiant fire? It is the
Presence and the Voice of the Eternal Being speaking to
our hearts.
U
298 Fhe Inner Radiance
To hear this divine Voice we must be still. We must
still not only our own voice and be quiet physically; not only
must we turn our minds away from the distractions of the
world at regular intervals of meditation, but we must still
our minds and our thoughts and become quietly receptive.
We must listen for His Voice in the rumble of the thunder,
in the shriek of the cyclone, in the mighty crash of earth-
quakes and disasters, when under-sea quakes are sending
tidal waves to crash in destruction upon the shore. During
all these conditions we must listen to His Voice. And this
Voice is always saying: "Peace. Be still." For there comes
a time in the life of every Soul when this mighty stillness
must be attained and manifested, and the Soul must realize
that the Lord God is speaking in the heart. Then we can
send up our aspiration: "0 Lord God I Thou Eternal
Beiné I Thou King of Glory I Thou who art forever in the
heavens and yet who fihleth the hearts of all mankind, mani-
fest Thyself unto me and guide me."
Ere we, as followers of Him and students of His teach-
iñgs, can hope to become the centers of radiant life, light,
joy and happiness which we should become; crc we can hope
to accomplish the great work in ourselves and for humanity
that we should accomplish, we must learn, at least to some
small degree, this great lesson of stillness, of listening to the
Voice of the King of Glory, not alone for what we may gain
thereby, but for what He may give us to radiate to others.
Indeed, we must learn to love that Voice, not in a fanati-
cal way, but reasonably, just as a mother loves her child or
a bride loves her true mate, until that love becomes a natural
part of our inner life which, although too sacred to be spoken
of lightly, is nevertheless the underlying force which never
fails us and which makes life a never-ending joy. When
we find our thoughts running hither and thither, imagining
this and that; seeking sympathy and, comfort from others;
when we no sooner think we have placed our feet firmly
upon the rock of spiritual understanding than something else
The Glory of the Lord 299
comes up to upset us, then is the time to sit down quietly and
say: "Peace. Be still."
Such conditions affect the mind as storms do the ocean.
It is just such storms of emotion which make the tears come
to our eyes. Sometimes the water does not actually flow
from our eyes, but everything seems to go wrong and our
whole life seems dissolved. When such negative periods
come we should deliberately go apart by ourselves and seek
to enter the Silence.4 There we should look up and listen
for His Voice saying: "My peace I give unto you. I am
walking on these dark waves. I know all the turbulence of
the earthly conditions that seem to overwhelm you and
wring your heart. But I say unto you, Peace. Be still."
Realize that the Christ, the Son of God, the outshining
of His glory is ever walking on the waters of life which
shall, at His command, be stilled for us. Let us make this
conception so familiar that we will make it an actual fact
in our lives. That was not simply a physical incident that
happened only once nearly two thousand years ago, but it
happens daily and hourly in the lives of those who seek to
follow Him and become His disciples: those who are trying
to listen to His Voice and do His will on earth, even as it
is done in heaven; those who are tossing in the little boat of
their human personality on the mighty and ofttimes terrible
ocean of life while trying to draw out of its depths the Great
Fish, the Leviathan or the inner understanding of life.
When the storms of emotion and discouragement rage and
they cannot manage their boat and they lose courage, then
the tears flow and they cry out: "The waves of life are too
strong for me. I have given up all desire for earth-love
and yet Divine Love seems far off."
0, children, Divine Love is all there is. That which we
call earth-love is but a reflection, but an image of the real
God-love. And if it be a real image and not an illusion, it
br practica' dueiiou. for entering the Silence .ee TI., Te,u.pl. of Sihwc..
Curtiu.
300 The Inner Radiance
is because we are made in His image and have within us
all His powers. It is Divine Love that comes down to man
and woman and illumines life and makes our brief life-
experience in the flesh tolerable, even happy. Because of
that Ray of Love within us we can rise on the wings of
light and life and soar into the very Heart of Love and find
the King of Glory. Then will our fears and our tears be
gone, and we will find our Christ walking upon the waters
of our life and saying: 'Peace. Be still."
There are many conditions in the lives of each one that
seem overwhelming, but, like the storms of Earth, no mat-
ter how severe, they are but passing. They are not real in
the sense of being permanent and eternal. The only thing
in the universe absolutely real is the mighty power and glory
and love of the Eternal Being, the Father-Mother of all,
and His Son, the Christ. Let us bow, then, before His
throne and realize that His Son is the outshining of His
glory to mankind. With this understanding and realization,
as He descends nearer and nearer to manifestation on Earth
we cannot be deceived by the many cries of mortals: "Lo
here! Lo there!"
When the time comes for the King of Glory, the Son of
the Spiritual world, to rise above the murky darkness of this
Earth and manifest Himself to mankind, then all who have
learned to be still; all whose hearts have been attuned to
Divine Love; all who have tried and proved that Love is
divine, that it can dispel all the clouds and darkness from
life, all these cannot be deceived any more than a dog can
be deceived in his master's voice, even though heard in the
dark or from over a stone wall, through a telephone or from
a phonographic disk. For they are already overshadowed by
the outshining of His glory and will know His voice and
recognize His manifestation wherever it takes place.
There are many changes coming to this Earth and its in-
habitants.' Some may call these mighty changes disasters,
$fo dctail. ice Comiag World Ckceges. Curtis,.
The Glory of the Lord 301
yet in reality they are only the mighty housecleaning so
necessary to prepare for His coming. Already the angelic
hosts are at work making straight the paths of understand-
ing which lead to the realization of Bis glory; changing
misunderstanding into light; changing misery into joy, and
death into life more abundant. Therefore, when such things
come upon the Earth, when the clouds are dark and condi-
tions seem hopeless, look up and see the Light of His glory
shining through, and hear His Voice saying again: "Peace.
Be still."
Let His Dove of Peace and rest, of strength and power,
of sympathy and love, abide with us henceforth forever.
Do not weep. Do not grieve. Let His Love dissolve all
unhappiness and push it far from us. Have comradeship
and friendliness with all, but have no controversy or inti
mate association with those who are not developed enough
to understand us or who do not believe in and hence refuse
to seek and worship Him.
It is important that as advanced students and followers
of Him we should learn to be still and commune with Him
daily; for we are entering upon a phase of unfoldment
wherein His direct, conscious guidance is necessary to carry
us through the turbulent changes that are coming. For al-
though we may seem to be few in numbers, if each student
strives to be a radiating center of understanding and light,
then we will form a Circle of Light around the entire globe.
To accomplish this we do not need to study in the musty
tombs of the ancient days; only study and practice how to
contact Him in our hearts.
Our work, each one of us, is to do all we can to bring
understanding and comfort in times of distress; to bring
peace, light, joy and happiness into our own lives and into
the world at large, not as the ignorant and self-indulgent
try to bring it today through their jazz music and indecency,
turning society up-side-down, but through the spread of the
light of spiritual understanding and the radiance of Divine
302 The Inner Radiance
Love For there is no true and satisfying happiness except
in response to the vibrations of oneness with the divine
Eternal Being, the King of Glory, who is the Lord of Love,
and whose Ray manifests within each heart
CHAPTER XXXIV
LESSONS BY THE WAY1
PART I. THE ANCIENT 0NTINENTS
1Scien can, it is true, collect, classify and generalize upon phe-
noinena; but the Occultist, arguing from admitted metaphysical data,
declares that the daring explorer who would probe the inmost secrets
of Nature must transcend the narrow lhnitations of sense, and trans-
fer his consciousness into the region of Noumena and the sphere of
Primal Causes. To effect this, he must develop faculties which, ve
in a few rare and exceptional cases, are absolutely dorrnant."TIse
Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 518.
The oft-repeated slogan "See America First" has a greater
significance to the Occultist than others would suppose, for
to understand the full significance of the widely divergent
scenery he will see it must be seen with the inner sense as
well as with the outer.
tn the miles of broad luxuriant plains of the Mississippi
Valley and its tributaries we find the swamps, sands and
gravels which give evidence of the vast inland sea which
covered those regions during the Lemurian and Atlantean
periods, while the rich deposits of alluvial soil show bow the
distant mountains have been eroded and washed down and
their debris spread over the rocks or mixed with the sands
to form the fertile soil of the valleys.
In the wide stretches of the "sage-brush country" which
extends through several of the far western states; in the
long reaches of desert and "sheep country"; in the arid
"bad lands" of the Big Horn region of Wyoming; in the
1No*e from a transcontinental auto tour made by the authors in Sep
tember, 1920.
303
304 The Inner Radiance
wondrous beauties and geological marvels of the Pike's Peak
region and of Yellowstone Park and in the desolation of
the immense lava beds of Idaho and eastern Oregon; in all
these regions we see the struggle of a new land; of Nature
slowly rebuilding a new earth out of the debris left after
the destruction of the great Lemurian Continent, long be-
fort the upheaval of the Atlantean and American Continents.
The gigantic Third or Lemurian Continentthe home of
the Third Great Racestretched from the remains of the
Hyperborean Land (Second Continent) in the Arctic Circle
Norway, Greenland, Eastern and Western Siberia, etc.
westward to where the American Continent now stands,
and southward across the Indian Ocean, around Madagas-
car and South Africa in a great horseshoe into the Atlantic
Ocean, a prolongation of which land became the geological
basis of the far later Fourth Continent of Atlantis. For
the "Atlanteans were developed from a nucleus of North-
ern Leinurian Third-Race Men. . . . Their Continent was
formed by the coalescence of many islands and peninsulas
which were upheaved in the ordinary course of time and
ultimately became the true home of the great Race known as
Atlantean."
But after the destruction of Lemuria by firethrough ter-
rific and age-long volcanic eruptionsit sank beneath the
waves, leaving only widely scattered remnants (such as Nor-
way, Ceylon, Australia and a large strip of California, etc.),
while other portions were again upheaved in much the same
conditions as they went down and were then inhabited by
the Atlanteans, thus overlapping both the Races and the
Continents. For instance, the gigantic statues on Easter
Island in the Pacific are not those of the late Atlanteans
who there escaped the destruction of their own Continent,
but represent the much more ancient Lemurians. Most of
the remnants of Lemuria thus remaining today plainly show
the action of the tremendous volcanic eruptions which either
2T S,c,.g D.cSrf,s B1ayatù7. H. 34$.
Lessons by the Way 305
desolated them or upheaved them, after their submergence,
during the formation of the Continent of Atlantis. This is
particularly true df certain regions in the Rocky Mountains.
And just as theThird Continent overlapped the Second and
the Fourth, so the Fourth (Atlantis) overlapped the Fifth
Continent (America).
Much of the American Continent is really older than
Europe, "only a few portions of which were barely rising
from the waters in the days of the highest Atlantean civili-
zation" $ and, before the publication in 1522 of the first map
on which America was shown, it was thought to be a part of
India. Indeed, the India of pre-historic times was doubly
connected with the two Americas. The, great cataclysm
which sank the larger part of Atlantis occurred soon after
the upheaval of America. "The Fourth (Race) born mil-
lions of years before the said catadysm took place, perished
during the Miocene period, when the Fifth (our Aryan
Race) had had one million years of independent existence?'4
At the time of its so-called discovery by Columbus, Amer-
ica had for ages been called Atlantis by some of the Indian
tribes then inhabiting it. But it must not be .supposed that
America was unknown to the Ancients, for in those days
geography was a part of the Mysteries well known to the
sages and teachers but veiled from the ignorant. Not only
was it known to the Druids, the Norsemen, the Egyptians
and the Japanese, but in the Vedas and other sacred litera-
tare of the East there are many allusions to it, it being
known as the Antipodes, also Presbkara, etc.
Just as the Continents overlapped and blended into each
other, so each Race overlapped and developed from the
preceding Race; the Lemurians, gigantic in stature gradually
becoming more and more materialized and organized and
then differentiated; then the Atlanteans, reaching, during the
latter part of the Fourth Race, the extreme of physical cx-
$ Ibid. 763.
'Ibid. 735-447.
306 The Inner Radiance
pression, gigantic, coarse, hairy, yet intellectually and psy-
chically developed but with little spirituality; and then our
present Fifth Race overlapping the Fourth and growing
less in stature but more and more in higher intellectual and
spiritual development. These ancient teachings are con-
firmed not only by the biblical account of the "giants in
those days, and also after that," but by the finding in mounds
and caves here in America of groups of skeletons of men
varying from nine to twelve feet in height. And we our-
selves have seen the so-called petrified body of a large an-
cient Indian.
And just as the Races and sub-races overlapped in the
past, so do they at the present time. Although the majority
of the inhabitants of Europe and Anierica are of our Fifth
or Aryan Race and are manifesting in the present Kali Yuga
or Iron Age, there are already beginning to be found Souls
incarnating who really belong to the Soiya Yuga or Golden
Age which will follow the present Iron Age some thousands
of years hence. Such Souls are the forerunners of the Sixth
Great Race who have voluntarily taken up the otlerous task
of incarnation in this transitional and troublous era that
they may help to prepare and set aside as a nucleus for the
New Age all who will listen to and obey the Voice crying in
the wilderness of modern life, "Prepare ye the way of the
Lord, make his paths straight." Only when such Souls, as
well as all others who can be piritually awakened, are gath-
ered from the Four Winds can the coming Avatar manifest
in the flesh in this era; for although He will reveal His
presence to all who are so spiritually awakened and desirous
of becoming His disciples that they affinitize with Him, He
will manifest bodily only to those whose development be-
longs to the Age of His public appearance to the multi-
tude," i.e., the Golden Age, although living now under the
outward reign of the Iron Age.
This is no more of a mystery than the overlapping of the
'See TA, Message .f 4quari., Curtis., aapter XXXVIIL
Lessons by the Way 307
Continents or than it must have been to the boneless and
androgynous Lemurians to see the Fourth Race beings de-
velop among them, with bodies quite differently organized,
possessing solid bones, erect posture, separated sexes, etc.'
But in the present overlapping it will be not so much a dif-
ference in physical structurealthough organs and facul-
ties now latent will developas in mental, psychic and
spiritual development.
This overlapping of the Sixth Great Race with the pres-
ent Fifth, which has already begun since we have definitely
entered into its sixth sub-race, will continue and be increas-
ingly marked all through the sixth and seventh sub-races of
the Fifth Great Race. And even when humanity enters fully
into the Sixth Great Race, thousands of years hence, many
back'iard or even degenerate remnants of the present Fifth
will still remain, but will then be far in the minority, just
as there are today remnants of the Fourth (Atlantean) and
even of the Third (Lemurian) in the Tasmanians, Aus-
tralians, Andaman Islanders, etc.
After this brief geological and ethnological introduction
we wish to call the attention of our students to some of the
lessons revealed to the inner eye in the vast and wonderful
parts of the far western states which we have recently
traversed.
After leaving the Mississippi Valley country one of the
most interesting lessons came from a visit to the homes of
the ancient Cliff Dwellers of Colorado; those mysterious
people who lived so many thousands of years ago and who
have left such remaxkáble traces of their lives and habits,
preserved in the pure dry air of their now almost inacces-
sible mountain retreats, yet of whom so little is known to
exoteric science as to their origin and fate. By psychome-
trizing some of their pottery, implements, mummies, etc.,
we came en rapport with their auras and conditions, but we
found their emanations and influences so disagreeable that
See Tb. Voice 'f Isir, curtlu. Cbspter XVII, "The Origlu of Man."
308 The Inner Radiance
we did not feel like pursuing our investigations further by
that method, so we asked the Teacher of the Order for an
explanation and were given the following facts:
The Cliff Dwellers were the late and pigmy descendants
of certain abnormal off-spring of the degenerate Atlanteans
who bred semi-human animals to do their manual and menial
work, as we have already explained.T Among the services
they were required to perform was the embalming and care
of the dead. The Atlanteans would not touch a corpse since
they considered it both defiling and degrading. We find
this same idea among the ancient Egyptians who sprang
from a colony of Atlanteans who listened to their spiritual
teachers and, warned of the terrible catadysms which were
to put an end to the horrors of black magic practiced by the
ruling ehsses, fled from Atlantis and settled in the valley
of the Nile. The tribes of these half-human, half-animal
Atlantean servants who had to do with the dead were there-
fore considered more degraded than those used for house
servants, laborers, etc., and hence were outcasts, even to
touch whom was pollution. They therefore lived among
the sepulchers or in caves and other wild places outside the
cities and came in at night to take away the bodies that were
to be embalmed.
It was the custom for those who could not afford the com-
plete embalming indulged in by the rich to pay for a partial
embalming and for the use of a tomb for a certain period,
just as a cell in the tombs built above the marshy ground
in New Orleans can be rented for a similar purpose today.
After the time paid for had elapsed the embalmers would
exhume the bodies, unwrap the mummy cloths and after
disposing of the disintegrating remains, hang the cloths
around their dwellings until used for the wrapping of the
next corpse of the poor. This made their dwellings so
polluted that no Atlantean would go near them and the
people were considered worse than animals.
T J4
Lessons by the Way 309
At that time the Lemurian remnants of the Rocky Moun-
tains were still in a condition of constant volcanic upheaval,
with such terrible cataclysms that the whole region was con-
sidered an inferno and unfit for human habitation. Yet cer-
tain tribes of the outcasts, which had been taught the
fundamentals of the Wisdom Religion to the extent of
their limited capacity by missionaries from the Great White
Lodge, refused to continue their degraded life under their
Atlantean masters and fled into the so-called infernal regions
and there found certain valleys or rather high cliffs, where
they could protect themselves from the beasts of the region
and from recapture, and where they escaped the cataclysms
which destroyed Atlantis. And it was the descendants of
these outcasts, inter-bred among themselves until they be-
came pigmies from three to four feet tall, who composed the
Qiff Dwellers whose remains we find today.
Naturally we expect to find some trace of the ancient Sun
or Fire Worship among them, and this we do in the circular
pit, entered only from the top, which is found in each village.
Science thinks this was used to store grain, but it was really
a place of worship, traces of the fire altar still being visible.
For although degenerate they were by no means lacking in
a certain intelligence, as their implements, baskets and the
openings of their houses show. The doors used by the
burden-bearers were much wider at the top than at the bot-
tom so the bearer could enter without laying down his bur-
den, while the doors used by the higher classes were narrow
all the way up.
On this tour we also gained quite a new lesson in regard
to the silence, namely, that the Great Silence is something
outside of yet including all Nature-sounds, which all Nature
feels and vainly strives to understand and express. On the
high mountain tops and in the vast stretches of desert and
plain we seemed to touch something that was more than
silence, for silence or great stillness, dead and ominous,
brooded over the "bad lands" of Wyoming and brought no
310 The Inner Radiance
inspiration, for the vibrations of the elemental forces of
horror and malignancy still lingered in the ethers around
such regions. But in the mountains we seemed to feel the
brooding of the creative Breath of Divinity, and in awe we
asked: "Is this the Temple of Silence, and can we enter
it ?" $
To find the entrance to this mystic Temple of Silence
we do not have to travel to distant places, for it is always
near. AU we need is to believe, and when we need help
knock and it shall be opened to us.
(To be continued)
$ Sec Tb. TecJ. .f Silecc, C5rths.
CHAPmR XXXV
LESSONS BY THE WAY
Pixr II. THE LESSON OF TEE SAGEBRUSH
"Praise ye the Lord.... Praise him ye heavens of heavens and
ye waters that be above the heavens (the Divine Mother).
Praise the Lord from the earth.... Fire, and bail; snow, and
vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word: mountains, and hills; fruit-
ful trees, and all cedars: beasts, and all cattle; creeping thngs and
fling'fowL"Psabrd, cxlviii.
While passing over the many mountain ranges which we
crossed on our tour from ocean to ocean we were struck by
the number of large trees which grew from out what seemed
to be the solid rock, with scarcely a crevice in which soil
could accumulate, and so far above ground that roots could
not possibly reach the soil below. This was but another cor-
rob&ation of our teachings in our The Voice of Isis1 that
the life-force of the planet manifests in greatest abundance
in the rocks and breathes through the mountains. It re-
minded us that those who find themselves planted in the
hard, rocky conditions of life can nevertheless draw their
life-force from the foundation stones of Eternal Truth, even
though denied the intellectual and physical conditions which
sean to the outer world so necessary as soil for the expres-
sion of life in happy and sturdy growth.
In other less rugged regions, where the hills were com-
posed of solidly baked day, scarcely a sign of plant life could
be seen, for solid day soil is so impervious to both air and
water and to the currents of the life-force that little or
nothing can grow. For growth comes quite as much from
I The Voice .f Isis, CurtIs., 313.
311
312 The Inner Radiance
the invisible currents of life-force of the planet as from
the nourishment received from the physical soil. This re-
minds us that we must not rely merely upon that which we
receive from without, but that we must ever seek to cor-
relate with the inner currents of spiritual life-force from
within; that instead of allowing our lives to become hard-
ened with a day-like selfishness we must make ourselves firm
as a rock, yet porous to the flow of the finer forces that they
may find expression through us.
In the Big Horn Mountains of Wyoming where baked
clay seems to the passing tourist to be the universal com-
position of the region, although the marvelous colorings
produced by the precipitation of mineral coloring matters
presented grand and inspiring sights, yet there was a notable
absence of both plant and animal life, save in the few in-
stances in which the hills have been washed down to form
soil along the bottoms of the arroyas. And even there the
vegetation was sparse and coarse. Indeed, in those so-called
"bad lands" there seemed added to the physical barrenness
and desolation a brooding sense of horror and malignant
antagonism, as though the emanations and thought-forces
of the andent black magicians who occupied the land in long
by-gone ages were still hovering about the region whispering
of the orgies of black magic and terror which had given
them birth and which had not been completely transmuted,
purified and redeemed, like the effluvia arising from the de--
caying debris remaining on the seashore after a great
storm.
In the wide lava beds of Idaho and eastern Oregon, the
road winds for 20 to 80 miles õr more over sharp and
jagged volcanic rocks amid the remnants of the titanic erup-
tions, and past mountains whose entire tops have been blown
off, leaving barren and desolate craters. Here we recog-
nized the remnants of Lemuria which had been purified by
fire and were now just beginning, here and there, again to
become habitable, through the combined efforts of the ele-
Lessons by the Way 313
ments and of man. Indeed, in the very heart of this region
we passed one beautiful gem of a ranch extending out into
the lava beds whose owner, we were told, had in a former
life been the chief of one of the later tribes of Lemurians
whose evil had helped to bring on its destruction. He had
incarnated in this general region many times during the days
of Atlantis, and also many times much later as an Ameri-
can Indian, in most cases still following the same impulses
which he had so intensified in those ancient days. Only in
this incarnation is he working in a definite and constructive
way to aid the redemption of the land which his evil forces
helped to curse in that far distant past. Thus does the
Great Law of cause and effect ever operate. We must each
of u become the redeemers of our own creations, sometime,
somewhere.
One day, after traveling over a hundred miles through
nothing but sparse and scrubby sagebrush with no habitation
for thirty or forty miles at a stretch, we became so tired of
the vast stretches of drab and dry looking bush and its
penetrating odor that we spoke very disparagingly of that
humble plant, so much so that the Teacher found it neces-
saryto correct our attitude of mind. It was pointed out that
the sagebrush is about the only form of vegetation, save the
few cacti and yuccas, which can live and thrive under the
hard conditions of the desert. As the sagebrush thus over-
comes all obstades to its growth, as it spreads over the vast
regions of arid and desolate country, it proves its power to
accomplish that which can scarcely be accomplished by any
other plant, namely, even though growing gnarled and
scrubby it nevertheless has the power to gather up and re-
tain or draw up from the depths sufficient moisture (water,
love) to grow and manifest. It thus helps to redeem the
soil and make it fit later for higher types of vegetation; for
its fallen leaves help to fertilize the soil, and even its death
and decay help to form that "humus" or vegetable matter
in the soil without which it will not support higher forms
x
314 The Inner Radiance
of plant life. The sagebrush also helps man directly with
certain medicinal and other properties.
We therefore learned, or rather had a greater realization
of that which we had known long before, namely, that no
matter how humble the form in which the one Divine Life
may be manifesting, each form is accomplishing a definite
work in the world, working in its own place and way to pre-
pare for a higher and greater form of manifestation of that
same One Life. After this we felt like apologizing to the
sagebrush for the attitude of contempt in which our igno-
rance and lack of realization permitted us to indulge. In
fact, we came to look upon it with much the same admiration
which we feel for the sturdy pioneers who are willing to live
under hard and primitive conditions that they may cultivate
and improve the soil and make the region habitable for
others, in other walks of life and with other qualities to ex-
press, who come later and whose work can be accomplished
only after the primitive conditions have been overcome. And
who shall say that the life-force now manifesting through
and learning the lessons of the sagebrush may not manifest
in some later age through noble trees growing in the very
soil which the sagebrush has helped to redeem and enrich
and prepare?
The sagebrush reminded us of the great mass of unen-
lightened and undeveloped humanity who seem to be toiling
hopelessly and apparently wasting their lives in a dreary
and drab existence almost as barren as a desert and with
scarcely a bright spot of color or blossom in their lives.
Yet even in their lives there are many tiny blossoms of love
for their children, friends, homes, etc.which make an
opening through which the Divine Life of the Great Mother-
love can flow forth to fill them with the Spiritual Sap and
manifest the life expression and experience which their stage
of evolution needs to take them their next step onward; to
bring forth in their lives the perfume of their highest ideals.
Like a beautiful life amid sordid surroundings we would
Lessons by the Way 315
now and then come upon an irrigated patch amidst the sur-
rounding sagebrush, fragrant with the delightful perfume
and refreshing coolness of alfalfa. For alfalfa has to an
extraordinary degree the ability to give off large quantities
of moisture and life-force as well as perfume, thus mark-
edly cooling the surrounding air. This is a phenomenon
which might not be noticed so distinctly did it not surprise
us in the midst of an arid waste. This crop alone is doing
much toward the regeneration of such lands.
Through all these regions we were introduced to the be-
ginning of reconstruction. Even the rodents, little ground
squirrels, gophers and prairie dogs, by their burrowing
through the earth and their life in it are helping it to trans-
mit more freely the life-forces. The elements were also
everywhere at work slowly washing the disintegrating rock
from the core of the mountains, leaving spires and pinnacles
and columns, often weird and fantastic shapes like giant
heads with gasping mouths striving to breathe, like stretched
out hands seemingly lifted to heaven in protest because the
elements were transmuting them into soil.
In other regions we found rugged, beautiful, even awe-
inspiring cafions where laughing streams had cut their way
through solid walls of rock and made it possible for man to
construct a highway by which he could climb to the heights
above. Here we saw exemplified the lesson that the great
stream of Divine Life-force is like a pure river flowing
through our lives. Even if their outer conditions be sean-
ingly as hard and dense as granite, nevertheless this stream
of Divine Life and Love of the Great Mother will wear a
passage through them as the water of a mountain stream
cuts through the hills. As the rocks break and crumble or
are undermined they fall into the stream, but the water only
dashes over them. The greater the obstruction the higher the
water lifts itself in spray and the more beautifully it re-
flects the sunlight. The more obstacles it meets the more
determination it shows to conquer.
3l The Inner Radiance
Just so with the life which consciously pennits the great
stream of the Divine Life-force to make a pathway through
it. It may not find all things smooth and pleasant, but no
matter what is encountered it knows that it can gather its
forces until the obstacle is overcome, each victory develop-
ing great power and endurance, and bringing greater joy
and greater ability to sparkle in the light of the Spiritual
Sun. Hence the lesson we learned from the canons was to
let our lives flow like a river, ever fed from the Eternal
Springs on high, our aspirations ever pointing upward like
the giant pines; ever gladly meeting obstades, trusting in the
irresistible power of the stream within us to overcome them,
not for ourselves alone, but that we may help to make a
pathway for other feet that shall lead, them from the valleys
of life to the heights. -
AnÓther lesson was learned from the distant mirages in
which we seemed to see cool waters for our parched throats,
and shady trees to protect us from the stifling heat and burn-
ing glare of the desert sun. Aitho they were only mirages,
yet in them we recognized alluring illusions similar to those
which come to tempt the untrained psychic to leave the well-
marked trail of teaching and philosophy left by the Mas-
ters of Wisdom and great Teachers which will lead him
safely across the illusions of the Astral World to the Hall
of Wisdom beyond. Many today are being tempted by such
illusions, due to their close touch with the astral. For just
as a mother must be open to the astral that incarnation may
take place, so as a New Race is being born, humanity is more
open to the astral than before, and many new forces are
striving for expression.
Many today are finding themselves tempted from the Path
by the many self-appointed teachers in the astral who cry:
«Lo, here! Lo, there I" so that the student scarce knows
which way to turn or whom to believe and follow. Yet
if we truly enter the Silence and ask that the Comforter
shall bring to our remembrance all that was told us of these
Lessons by the Way 317
times, we will at once remember that it was said: "Many
shall come in my name. . . and shall shew great signs and
wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall de-
ceive the very elect." Yet we need not be deceived. Those
who come in the name of the Christ are not always or even
often in the flesh, but come in the astral to every awakening
psychic,2 claiming to be Messengers of Light and pouring
into the minds of the psychics plausible tales and great prom-
ises, telling one that he is to be a great teacher or another
that she has been chosen to redeem the world, etc. To all
such, and they are many, let the Comforter, the Divine
Mother, bring to their remembrance the answer that Jesus
gave to those who came asking, "Art thou he that should
come? or look we for another?" His only answer was to
point to His works, to that which He had accomplished.
And His answer is as true today as ever. "By their fruits
ye shall know them."
Hence, unless we see such teachers bringing forth the
bread and wine of spiritual truth we must recognize that
all their fair promises are but the allurements of the mirage
which, if followed, means the terrible suffering of losing our
Path across the desert. "Do men gather grapes of thorns,
or figs of thistles?" Spiritual drink (grapes) cannot be
gained from the hard, woody fiber o1 mere intellectual teach-
ings, be they ever so sharp and penetrating, nor can spir-
itual food (figs) be found on the stinging growths in the
astral which seem so gçeen and tempting.
It is not what some astral teacher tells us we will be or
will do, but what we are doing now, what foundations we
are laying, what principles we are following, that counts.
Never does one have to proclaim to the world that be is a
chosen one; that he alone can turn discontent and antagonism
into brotherhood, abolish war and iniugurate an era of world
peace Ifheissoappointedandhasthepower,allhehas
3 For detaili uee R&wj of IA. Lvf,g D,aJ, Curtlu.
,SI. M.UA.UP. vU. 16.
318 The Inner Radiance
to do is to go quietly about his work and the world will
know it by its results.
But whether chosen for a special public work or not, each
one can strive to enter the great Temple of Silence and there
receive the accolade of divine power and have the love of
the Divine Mother flU him. Then he can go forth and ex-
press and manifest as best he may that which he has received,
and thus fulfill his part as a humble worker with the Great
Ones for the enlightenment and upilftment of his fellow
men.
(To be concluded)
CHAPTER XXXVI
LESSONS BY THE WAY1
P&ar IlL NATURE'S SYMBOLOGY
"Little drops of water, little grains of sand,
Make the nilghty oceans and the pleasant land.
Little deeds of kindness, little words of love,
Make the earth an Eden, like the heaven above."
Little Things1 Camey.
"I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my
help."Psalms, cxxi, 1.
Summer is the season of vacations, of travel and change.
Change is essential to growth and progress; change of stir-
roundings, change of ideas, change of outlook and attitude,
even frequent changes of costume. All these create new
interests and stimulate both mind and body. But the change
must be of a constructive nature else its benefit may be lost.
Too strenuous a vacation may bring one home tired out and
depleted instead of refreshed and invigorated.
Since this planet was created as a great school2 for the
Soul in which man must learn many vital lessons, if we
travel over it with only a sightseer's interest in mere surface
conditions we may enjoy its scenery and expand our concep-
tions of how other communities live and thus improve our
minds, but if we travel with our mystic eyes open we will
see back of surface conditions into the mysteries of life,
into the causes of things; will tune ourselves in with Na-
ture's activities and thus have a better understanding of the
I Netca fn,a a trana-continental auto tour made by tin Authors in Sep-
tember. 1930.
2 See The J'mc. cf Isi,, CurtIs., 46.
319
320 The Inner Radiance
significance of the rapid and remarkable changes that are
constantly taking place around us.
We all know that this summer (1930) the whole middle
portion of our country has been suffering for months from
the most severe drought on record since 1874. One expla-
nation is that the areas of high atmospheric pressure which
normally sweep across the northern third of the country
every few days from one coast or the other, drawing air
currents from both North and South, have failed to appear
this year. Hence, the cool air currents from the North
could not mingle with the warm, moisture-laden currents
from the South or from the coasts, and condense their
moisture into rain. But a study of the weather map shows
that the storm currents have not disappeared, but have only
been djverted far to the North across the wastes of the Hud-
son Bay region where the rain was not needed for man-
kind.
One scientific reason given for the diversion of the storm
track so far to the North is connected with the swing of the
Moon far to the northward in successive decades, the ex-
treme swing this year repeating that of 1874, which was
also a year of great drought. But this is only the effect,
not the cause. The cause is connected both with the wob-
bling of the Earth's axis and with the crossing over of
certain earth-currents,' which crossing coincides with our
entering into the new Aquarian Age. During this transi-
tional period there will be many and great changes brought
about by cataclysms, great floods, unusual droughts, famines,
strikes, wars and disasters of all kinds, as fully explained
in our Coming World Changes.
That the drought this summer is not a mere local dis-
turbance of the air currents of this country, but has a
planetary aspect, is evidenced by the fact that the drought
has been far more terrible in other countries. Recent news-
paper reports quote Bishop Claes, the chief missionary
Sce Couus. World CM.er, Curtis., 49.
Lessons by the Way 321
Bishoj of the Belgian Congo, as reporting that the drought
in the Ruanda Province had caused a famine so frightful
that it had taken the lives of 40,000 natives! in spite of the
fact that many thousands had emigrated to the British ter-
ritory of Uganda. This terrible disaster to humanity is all
a part of the travail which this planet and its inhabitants are
passing through during the "last days" of the old cycle;
those days of "great tribulation, such as was not since the
beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.
And except those days should be shortened, there should
no flesh be saved." But we must ever keep in. mind that
"for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." And we
have explained elsewhere just how this can be accomplished
and the responsibility of every thoughtful person in regard
to it.
In driving across the parched and sun-baked plains of the
middle western states it was brought home to us with great
force the vital part which water plays both in the life of all
animate beings and inanimate Nature as well. Of the three
essential factors for physical life and growthwater, sun-
shine and foodwater is by far the most important, for
life can be maintained far longer without sunshine or food
than it can without water. For without waterthe great
solvent and purifierthe food (or soil) cannot be dissolved
and assimilated nor the waste products be washed out, so
the plant or animal body dries up and shrivels and the life-
force can no longer flow through it. Thus do we realize
the dictum that, "Life is the basic reality, of which every-
thing else is a form or manifestation."
All this is correspondingly true of the spiritual life. No
matter how much spiritual food is provided, unless we im-
bibe the waters of Divine Lovethe great solvent and
purifierthe Spiritual Fire will only scorch and wither and
the spiritual food which it should vitalize and use for growth
4Sf. M.StA.u. xxi,. 21. 22.
$ C0w4u.4 World Cka.sge:, Curtiss, Chapters 11IlL
322 The Inner Radiance
cannot be assimilated or our natures be cleansed and puri-
fied of the waste products of our minds, our emotions and
our desires. "But whosoever drinketh of the waters that
I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall
give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into
everlasting life."
Seeking to imbibe the Christ-love from the universal
ocean of Divine Love, and striving to build it into the struc-
ture of our lives, is even more important for our spiritual
growth and fruitage than water is for the growth and
fruitage of plant life. If there is a dearth or drought of
love in our lives our spiritual tassels cannot pollenize our
actions, and our ears of manifestation and our kernels of
demonstration will therefore be few and puny and not at
all nourishing, and our whole lives will be withered and
barren of spiritual attainment, no matter how luxuriant the
leaves of our outer conditions may seem to grow.
But if we have love, no matter how little learning or how
little mental illumination we may have, we can grow to the
full stature of the inner unfoldment which we have reached
and which our environment (soil) and our Karma enables
us to manifest. And so we can help to make the human
landscape brighter and more cheerful and happy, and bring
forth fruits of character which will encourage, comfort and
help others. For just as surely as "little drops of water,
little grains of sand, make the mighty oceans and the pleas-
ant land," so is it true that "little deeds of kindness, little
words of love, make this earth an Eden, like the heaven
above." For it is not by outer achievements that our
spiritual growth is promoted and our character formed, but
by the assimilative and cohesive power of love which builds
in little by little the results of the deeds of kindness and the
words of love which the Divine in us prompts us to express.
In our Coming World Changes we have described the
effect of sincere and earnest community prayer in bringing
S Pag, 104.
Lessons by the Way 323
rain, and how the very lives of both the Hopi and Pueblo
Indians depend upon their ability to bring rain annually
from what had been for weeks a cloudless sky during the
drought season to save the corn crop upon which they depend
for food. While driving through the drought-stricken states
we felt so sorry for the withered vegetation, the thirsty ani-
mals and the suffering humanity that in the middle of the
morning, without a cloud in the sky, we prayed that if their
Karma permitted they should be given rain. Before noon
clouds began to gather and in a few hours the first shower
for weeks was falling.
In watching the clouds float over the landscape it occurred
to us that the earth, the douds and the sky might be likened
to the physical plane, the astral plane and the spiritual plane.
The clouds float over the earth much like clouds of astral
conditions and forces float over humanity. The clouds may
seem too ethereal and unsubstantial to be seriously consid-
ered, but under certain conditions they can concentrate and
condense until they darken the whole horizon. Although
usually so harmless, upon occasion they become so charged
with destructive forces as to wreak havoc upon the earth
and humanity.
Similarly, the astral world seems so ethereal and unsub-
stantial that it is hardly worth while considering, yet it too
is capable of concentrating such destructive forces as to
wreak havoc upon mankind. Yet in both the physical and
astral storms, the effect is but the result of man's own de-
structive creations, as we have explained elsewhere? But
just as there are many beautiful and inspiring effects in the
cloud fonnationsaltho they too have a significance but little
understood or suspectedas they bring cooling shade and
refreshing rain to combine with the soil and sunshine to
bring forth the crops of the field and the health and happi-
ness of mankind, so are there many beautiful and inspiring
effects to be noted and conditions to be contacted in the
13 The V.Ic, of CurtIs., 116-7, 172.
324 The Inner Radiance
astral world which do much to comfort, inspire and refresh
mankind and help them to bring forth their most fruitful
experiences. And even though the clouds do often hide the
Sun from our sight for a time, the glimpses of the blue
sky we see between them is evidence that the Sun still shines
whether we see it or not. Likewise, aitho unfavorable astral
conditions may sometimes overshadow, chill and discourage
us, we must never forget that the Sun of Righteousness is
forever shining above the clouds, and the deep sky-blue of
Divine Love ever arches over us in tender, protecting care,
assuring us that all storms, no matter how severe, eventually
pass away and reveal the Sun and the blue sky as friendly
and cheering as ever. And if we have faith in the Divine
Law and steadfastly hold fast to our spiritual principles and
ideals. until the storm of discouragement, trial or depression
blows over, we will save ourselves much unnecessary suf-
fering.
As we approach the mountains (Rockies) we are at first
awed by their vastness and their majesty and we feel our
own seeming insignificance. But a little reflection will reveal
the fact that we are not insignificant, even in the presence of
the mountains, for we are individualized immortal Souls,
emanations from the divine Father-Mother, and as such we
are Their direct representatives on Earth. The mountains,
reaching so far up into the sky, naturally symbolize the
heights of spiritual attainment or man's ascent to Godhood.
At first sight these attainments seem to loom vast and
forbidding before us and we are apt to think that there is
so much to learn, so much to attain, and we are so ignorant
and undeveloped that the task is hopeless. But if we ex-
amine the mountains carefully when we reach them we will
find that others have been there before us, intrepid pioneers
who have blazed the trails to the heights for us. Indeed,
in these days there are splendid highways leading to all the
beauty spots and to the richest mines. So today, when many
eager, hungry Souls are seeking the Path of Attainment,
Lessons by the Way 325
there are many entrances to the Path pointed out by many
reliable guides, and many well-mapped highways of instruc-
tion, even broad, well-paved courses of teaching, which will
help to quicken our progress and make easy our attaining
an understanding of the great truths that seemed so formi-
dable at first sight. Yet ever the top-most heights of
spiritual realization must be scaled by the individual initia-
tive, the indomitable courage and the persistent efforts of
the aspiring Soul.
But even if we cannot reach the mountains and have to
live seemingly upon a dead-level plain, we need not be dis-
couraged. If we cannot go to the mountains they can come
to us, not in their vast bulk, but in their essential elements.
For as the storms beat upon the heights they are gradually
disintegrated and washed down to form the floor of the
valleys and the broad alluvial plains. Therefore, if we but
seek deeply enough within we will find beneath our very feet
and in our own home environment particles of the same
granite boulders which form the mountains. Then, too, the
air of the higher altitudes is too rare for many of the dwell-
ers of the plains, so they are able to make only brief visits
to the heights. Yet no matter in what region we may find
ourselves placed by the Great Law, if we will open our
spiritual eyes and seek deeply enough, we can find the es-
sence of those eternal truths whose mastering will take us
to the heights of attainment.
We often think that as we progress toward the heights
that our lives will be increasingly serene and peaceful, but in
driving through a mid-summer hail storm four inches deep
while crossing a high mountain pass from Cripple Creek,
Colorado, it was brought vividly to mind that the heights are
by no means always calm and serene. For many are the
storms and testings, the black douds of discouragement and
depression, the thunder of our emotions, the jagged flashes
of anger, the drenching rains of doubt and the fierce, beating
bail of material attractions, which assail the Neophyte until
326 The Inner Radiance
he has passed the four great initiations of the elements
earth, air, fire, waterand has reached the haven of peace
above the storm douds.
These observations may seem to some but trite remarks
and obvious platitudes. But what are platitudes? They are
not merely dull, stupid remarks, but are simple statements
of the eternal verities upon which all civilizations are built
and without the observance of which mankind cannot live
in peace and happiness. Hence they are absolutely neces-
sary for our communal life. The multiplication table is a
platitude to the mathematician and the statement that two
plus two make four is a very trite remark, yet we still often
need to be reminded of these fundamentals which underlie
all mathematics, even though we may have become an ad-
vanced authority on higher mathematics.
So do we ever need to let the beauties and wonders of
Nature and the events of our daily lives remind us that we
are not mere mortals, but are essentially spiritual beings
who have temporarily donned the uniform of earth life.
But there is no limitation, sickness, lack or inharmony in
the Soul. Therefore nothing can prevent the manifestation
of the powers of the Soul through the human personality
save those things of the earth, earthythoughts, desires,
deeds, ambitions, emotions, etc.,which we permit to in-
trude and divert our minds from a realization of the beauty
and glory and the infinite power of the Christ within.
CHAPTER XXXVII
THE KING OF GLORY
"Now unto the King eternal, immortal invisible, the only wise God,
be honor and glory for ever and ever. Ajnen."I Tsmotij, i, 1?.
"Who is this King of Glory? The Lord (Law) strong and mighty,
the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates; and the
ICing of Glory shall come in."Psalms, xxiv, 8, 9.
"The great Law of the Universe, that which manifests forever in
man, atom and world as the law of spiritual evolution, works forever
onward and upward."The Voice of Isù, Curtiss 331.
In these days the minds of men are ever turning toward
the scientific investigation of the hidden causes of all func-
tions of life. Through the so-called psycho-analysis, voca-
tional-analysis, electronic reactions, photo- and chromo-
therapy, iridology or the classification of the markings of
the human eye, etc., man is seeking not only the origins of
disease, but also of character, disposition, temperament and
all those characteristics which make up what is called
upersonality.
Mankind is, therefore, asking today as never before, What
is the Law of Life and how can we know and correlate
with it? This is one result of a mighty wave of cosmic
force which is now sweeping over humanity, and so many
hearts, as well as minds, are responding to it that there is
arising an increasing "famine in the land, not a famine of
bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of
the Lord."1 Many feel that if it could be known just
what the Law of Life is and the why and wherefore of our
being, an explanation could be found for the diversity of
men's minds, their lack of co-operation and the reasons for
14.0:, 7W, 11.
327
328 The Inner Radiance
their suffering. Then a solution of the problem could be
worked out, just as it has been, through a greater knowledge
of Nature's laws, for many physical and scientific problems
once thought unsolvable.
In seeking at least to suggest such a solution let us care-
fully consider such expressions as "the Lord is King," "the
King is Wise, eternal, immortal, is a King of Glory," "the
Law of Spiritual Evolution," etc., contained in the quota-
tions which head this chapter. This immortal, invisible
ruling Power, this "wise King," is not something entirely
apart from us, but is a Power which is commonly shut out
of our consciousness by certain conditions referred to in the
text as 'gates" which we, through ignorance of the Law,
have ourselves shut. But these gates we can lift up or open
and make into "everlasting doors" through which the glory
and strength, the love and wisdom of the Lord can enter
into our consciousness and become the King or ruler of
our lives.
What, then, are these "gates" which shut out the glory
from our consciousness and blind us to a realization of. the
Lord whose Divine Will manifests as the law of our being
and the so-called Laws of Nature? In this sense the gates
are not merely man's psychic centers which connect him with
the invisible realms of the Astral World, and which in other
connections are referred to as gates or doors, but in the
wider, general sense they are certain conditions pertaining
to the personality. First of all, there is the health of the
physical body and its functions, which body our Real or
Higher Self has built up from the materials ("dust of the
ground") and forces of Mother Earth. And the ill-health
or inharmonious working of this body, while not entirely
preventing the manifestation of its Lord, is nevertheless a
detriment and a handicap to the expression of His glory.
A second gate is karmic conditioijs, which we are apt to
think shut down upon us whether we will or not, and seem
imperatively to demand that we walk only in their prede-
The King of Glory 329
termined path. A third gate is the environment in which
we have chosen to incarnate. A fourth gate is our general
type of mind and trend 3f thought, together with the char-
acter of our ethical and religious training. There are also
other conditions which seem like tightly shut gates whose
keys are lost; so tightly shut that not only the Lord our
King cannot come in, but many men even deny His exist-
ence. Others read such quotations as those given above
glibly and without serious thought as to their real meaning
and significance.
If, however, it is the Law of Life (Will of God) that
these gates be lifted up and our condition of life be so puri-
fied and spiritualized that the King of Glory may enter this
house of flesh which He has builded, and rule our livesas
He ultimately must, as soon as we make it possible through
our efforts to correlate with Him and advance, for whatever
is foreordained by His Will must and will ultimately mani-
fest according to the Lawthen why should we not at once
begin to lift up these gates and make possible the manifesta-
tion of His glory now? For all that holds us back from
our realization of God Consciousness comes from our re-
fusal to respond to and obey our Inner Guidance.
The gate of personalityalso healthis so interwoven
with the gate of Karma that when we try to lift it we find
many traits which at first sight seem really to be ourselves,
but which in reality are but the results of the thoughts,
habits and conditions which we built up in past lives, but
which are just as surely our Karma as are the main events
which shape our lives today, the characteristic temptations
that assail us and the various persons with whom we are
thrown into intimate contact.
For this reason one of the first lessons we must learn,
once we have responded to His influence and felt the great
urge to let the King of Glory begin to enter into our hearts
our portion of His Kingdomand rule our lives, is care-
fully to examine ourselves each night before going to sleep,
Y
330 The Inner Radiance
and note each trait of our personality and ask to be shown
clearly just which characteristics are manifestations of our
Real or Higher Self and which are but the reflected and
distorted expressions of Soul-qualities which have either
been dwarfed or misdirected as a result of bodily and men-
tal conditions, environment or training and built into our
personality through wrong thinking, or which have been
brought over from our past lives as inherent tendencies
which it is our duty to correct.
In reality that which we call Karma is not so much the
actual physical events which come to us because we have
set up certain causes in the past whose results must come
up to us either to be redeemed or accentuated in the present
life. Nor is it particular persons we are destined to meet
and with whom we make adjustments. While these are cer-
tain aspects of Karma, yet Karma deals pre-eminently with
principles and conditions within ourselves, often with certain
Soul-qualities whose lack of unfoldment results in similar
experiences repeating themselves again and again, life after
life. For, through lack of this unfoldment, relations with
certain persons and our reaction to certain conditions in past
lives, we find built into our present personality certain traits,
either helpful or detrimental, which have crystallized into
ruling principles which bring us either joy or sorrow accord-
ing as they are manifestations of the Higher Self or the
lower self (personality). The results of these traits may
or may not be worked out in connection with the same
individuals who in the past helped us to build them up.
The point we wish to emphasize is thiit the expression
of our Real or Soul-life is determined by the principles
which we do or do not manifest, and not by events or per-
sonalities. The latter only furnish opportunities for the
manifestation of the inherent principles. Hence the axiom,
reiterated by all great Teachers: Seek for the cause of con-
ditions and events within yourself, iiot witlout. For only
within the depths of our own inner consciousness can we
The King of Glory 331
discover the principles which shall not only rule our per-
sonality, but shall master every event in life.
In the Bible we are told, "Dust thou art, and unto dust
thou shalt return," yet we surely know that those words
were not spoken of the Soul, which is immortal. But they
are absolutely true of the body and that which makes up
the lower personality, which is but a temporary vehicle of
the Soul. In order that it may contact, function in and
understand Earth conditions, the Soul, therefore, builds up
a body literally out of the dust of the ground, which itself
is but the re-fashioned dust of worlds long since passed
away2 Since we incarnate again and again on this planet,
each time we leave it we leave behind our old worn out
body, which disintegrates and mingles with the dust from
which it came. And since much of this "dust of the
ground" is the remains of disintegrated human habitations
or creationsbodies, houses, cities, civilizations, also ani-
mals and everything with which we have been associated
all things ultimately commingle in this Earth dust.
Often a certain place or region, which we have never seen
in this incarnation, attracts us with remarkable intensity,
while other places nearby have no special attraction. In
certain instances this attraction may be because we lived there
in a past life and left our former body there to mingle with
the dust Whatever has been closely associated with us is
impregnated with our vibrations and produces either a strong
attraction or perhaps repulsion, horror or fear, according to
our relation to it and how it affected us in the past. The
horror is felt especially by those who were burned at the
stake or suffered some form of martyrdom for their reli-
gious principles.
Furthermore, since man has within him this Immortal
Ego or Higher Self, and since the mind of man can reach
up to the highest and down to the lowest, he has impreg-
nated not only the atoms which composed his personality in
15cc Tb, Voict .f Isis. Ciartiu, Cbapter XV.
332 The Inner Radiance
each of his incarnations, but also the very dust of the Earth
itself, with not only his emanations, but also the vibrations
of his mind and of his Higher Self, to the degree that he
has been able to express it in each incarnation. Hence, much
of the dust of the Earth is impregnated with more than one
form of consciousness, namely, the elemental consciousness
of its own kingdom and its builders, together with the con-
sciousnes of all the human beings, animals and vegetables of
which it was once a part, much as a seed has within it the
consciousness of the plant it is destined to become as well
as the consciousness of all the kingdoms which go to make
up its form, although in its unfoldment it follows the domi-
nant consciousness of its species and grows into the pattern
of that species and none other.
A great difference between theplant or animal and man,
however, is that the plant or animal, having no permanent
individuality, follows the guidance of the Group-soul of its
species and will gather up only the materials needed for its
form. Man, on the contrary, being individualized and hence
having personal responsibility, must ultimately gather up qr
contact at least the essence, if not the actual particles, of
the left-behind dust of all that he has impregnated with the
radio-active vibrations of his various principles and life-
forces, as well as the thought-forces which he has set up or
entertained. Thus do we often build into our bodies par-
tides impregnated with the vibrations of mistaken or entirely
wrong principles and habits which have strongly affected us
in past lives, and also build into our minds ideas, habits of
thought, ancient memories, religious and personal prefer-
ences, prejudices, etc., which in truth belonged only to some
former personality of ours in a less advanced stage, or to
the environment, and not to our Immortal or Higher Self.
No evil force can attach itself to us, be it the aroma of
long past ages of wickedness or present day evil, unless
there is something akin to it in us, or unless we open the
door of our minds to it, even through mere curiosity. For
The King of Glory 333
God has made man in His own image and likeness, hence
he need not respond to evil forces unless he opens himself
and responds to them.
On the other hand, we attract to us and build in all the dust
that has been purified and redeemed by our spiritual vibra-
tions, as well as the principles and truths we have learned
and proved in the past. And these now manifest in us as
inherent convictions, especially those things not directly
present in our conscious minds; those things which our
Higher Self knows are true and which it is striving to im-
press upon our minds, but which we so often push aside
as mere imagination; for example, a personal rIi'ation
of the Divine; the reality of a continuous life after death,
of reincarnation, of being familiar with the Teachings of
this Order, because of having begun their study in past lives,
etc. But until we have learned the lessons of the past,
whose fruitage we now have built into us and our environ-
ment1 and can transmute that which is not helpful into con-
structive expressions of the Divine Self, they will remain
with us as personal Karma which will make it difficult for
us to lift up the gates through which the King of Glory
must come in.
The immortal Higher Self is in truth our Ray of the
outshining of the Lord who is the King of Glory, "the King
eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God." This divine
Ray, like radium among metalsradium being but a metal-
ized manifestation of this outshining, through the Soul of
the Earthis made up of emanations of Spiritual Light or
is clothed in substance corresponding to its own world. And
only as we recognize this Ray in ourselves as the means and
source of our illumination and guidancenot merely a
friendly guide or astral teacher, still less one who watches
to punish and precipitate upon us the Karma of our ntis-
takesbut a spiritual radiation which should permeate every
atom of our entire personality, which it can fully do only
when we have lifted up our gates, just as we must crush
334 The Inner Radiance
the ore to extract the radium. Only then can the Radiance
of the Divine Self shine forth through us.
Remember that we incarnate on Earth not to save our
own Souls, as the orthodox teachfor the Soul is immortal
and needs no "saving" in that sense, only saving from the
suffering which we impose upon it by failing to follow its
guidanceor from the Karma we have created, as many
occultists think, but to work with and for the King of Glory
as His ambassadors; to help His divine Radiance to per-
meate and fill this planet and all its kingdoms with His
peace, harmony, love and glory, so that all things shall
acknowledge this mighty Lord as their King and express
His harmony and glory forevermore. Therefore, no one
can live to himself alone, for ultimately the Will of God or
the Great Law as "unity in diversity," "co-operation and
individuality," must be fulfilled, no matter how far we with-
draw from humankind.
The dust of the Earth which we have impregnated with
our emanations we must ultimately redeem by impregnating
it with the radiant energy of higher ideals of love and
brotherhood and also with more purified and spiritual einana-
tions from our whole personality as its advance in spiritual
unfoldment raises its vibratory rate. This can be done ef- -
ficiently only to the extent that we manifest the King of
Glory within ourselves; for whatever we entertain within
becomes a part of us and radiates to all we contact.
Scientists have marvelled that no matter how far they
wandered from civilization, even where the foot of man had
never trod before, they nevertheless found disease germs,
hordes of insect pests, savage animals and other antagonistic
forces of Nature to combat. But as a majority of manicind
open their gates and invite the King of Glory to enter, all
the things now antagonistic to man will gradually be trans-
muted into forms which will co-operate with and help man.
Man, therefore, must learn that his destiny is to become the
Lord of Creation to the lower kingdoms, but this he can do
The King of Glory 335
only to the degree that the King of Glory rules his life.
The Karma he has stamped upon the dust of the Earth
is his own Karma and can be redeemed only by him. This
is not the herculean task it seems at first sight, for when
man opens his gates "the King mighty in battle" will enter
in, and the same cosmic forces which fashioned the world
in the beginning will sweep through him and all through
Nature, cleansing, purifying and redeeming all, even as the
waters of the rivers Alpheias and Peneios, which Hercules
turned into, and through them cleansed, the Augean stables.'
Many, instead of recognizing as their own the karmic dust
which settles upon them, complain that others do not ap-
predate them; that the world is cruel and unkind; that some
friend is hard to get along with; that evil forces persecute
them; why should not others take pains to be considerate of
them instead of always expecting them to be considerate of
others, etc. When such ideas assail us we should seek
within ourselves for the cause, instead of praying that God
will make others more considerate of us. Neither should
we waste time and energy trying to find out what we may
have done in former incarnations that we must suffer now,
or speculate on what those whom we dislike have done to
us in the past. We should simply ask the King of Glory
to illumine our understanding that we may realize just what
principle or trait our personality is manifesting which calls
forth reactions from others which cause us humiliation, suf-
fering and sorrow.
Looking thus deep within ourselves in meditation and
courageously facing what we find, is often a hard lesson
to learn, for the personality naturally tends to make excuses,
to consider only our good intentions, to say, "I intended
to be kind, loving, helpful and true, hence should not be
blamed if I am not perfect." Instead, why not work defi-
nitely to make ourselves more perfect, that we may be one
of the first to lift up our gates and let the King of Glory
The Xrj 4 DnSå,j. rdu. 90.
336 The Inner Radiance
enter in and illumine us and shine forth to others? In
other words, instead of expecting others to live up to higher
standards, we should strive to let the King of Glory out-
- picture through us more of the beauty of holiness which
He radiates within. Thus, by our example and the force
we radiate, will we stimulate and inspire others to live up
to their highest ideals and let the King of Glory shine
through them.
Once let us understand that Karma is something out of
the past which in some respects is like the dust which follows
an onward moving vehicle; that we need not be overwhelmed
and suffocated by it; that we do not have to breathe it in
and re-animate it, then we can recognize it for what it is
and brush it off into its proper place. We can also leave
behind us new particles full of radiant blessing for all they
contact. For, remember, we have as great ability to trans-
mute our Karma as we have ability to brush the dust from
our clothing, if we but lift up our gates and let the King
of Glory in.
CHMmR XXXVIII
THE CHRIST STAR
PART I. TIlE FIVE POINTS
"Behold, there caine wise men from the east to Jerusalem, sayin,
Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? for we have seen his
star in the east, and are come to worship him . . . and, 10, the star,
which they saw in the east, went before thena, till It came and stood
over where the young child was."St. Matthew, ii, Z 9.
'Within each heart a sacred Flame,
The Christ Star's steady blaze,
Help us thy children, gracious Lord,
On it to fix our gaze."
Hymn of Conzecration, Harriette Augusta Curtiss.
Looking upon the Gospel story of the birth of Jesus, not
from the literal and historical viewpoint, but viewing it
solely from the standpoint of its being another expression of
the universal allegory1 of the periodic appearance of all
spiritual Light Bearers or Saviours, in all ages and to all
races, as well as the birth of the Christ-consciousness in each
heart, in a former volume we have answered the great heart-
cry which is constantly going up from so many hungry
Souls, "Will He come again? If so, how? and where?"
But there is still another important phase of His coming
which should be better understood, namely, another mean-
ing of the Christ Star.
We are told that His previous coming, at the beginning
of the Piscean Age, was heralded by the appearance of a
Star which is said to have led the Wise Men and to have
finally come to rest over His birthplace. We know that
iSee lemon, TA. UAv.r,aI Sd., M
22k. Meu.g. 4 Aqiionrn, Curtåu, C ''XXXVII, XXXVIIL
337
338 The Inner Radiance
astronomically a star is a great cosmic body or Sun with
a relatively fixed position, hence it could not literally appear
miraculously and be seen with the naked eye by only three
persons, much less travel ahead of them and then stand still
over any certain country, far less single out a particular
little village in that country.8 But since every country and
nation is ruled over by one of the zodiacal signs, the country
which was ruled by the same sign as that of the Great Age
in which the Christ was to appear would naturally be the
one in which the Great Teacher of that Age would descend
into manifestation. For the Light of the Spiritual Sun (Son
of God) appears at the beginning of every Great Age
approximately every 2160 yearsthat all mankind may have
renewed spiritual life by absorbing and manifesting the new
spiritual ideals thus revealed and which that Age should
naturally develop, just as he physical Sun shines forth at
the beginning of every lesser cyclethe yearthat all Nature
might have renewed life by absorbing and manifesting the
life-force which it pours forth to be embodied during that
season. The light of this understanding should indicate
to the spiritually wise men where the manifestation or
"birth" is to take place.
We are told that the Star which announces His second
coming shall rise in the East and shall shine even unto the
West. Because the Sun rises in the East and is the source
of physical light and life, the East is used in mystical litera-
ture to symbolize the source of all spiritual light and life.
And just as the Christ Star which announced His former
coming arose in a country in the East ruled by Piscesthe
sign that ruled that dispensationand illuminated first that
country and then spread to the WestEurope and America
just so may we expect the Star which announces His sec-
ond coming, and which is to illumine this new Aquarian
$ Tb. iaiit star celled N... Hercules, which. In December 1934, suddenly
damed out 300.000 times more brilliantly than before, only to wan. after a
few days, was regarded b7 meny as the Star of Ana..'..0 of the Second
Comlog .1 Jesus for the Aquaria. Age.
The Christ Star 339
dispensation, to rise in the East of the country ruled by
Aquarius, i.e., the United States, which is to become the
chief center of the New Age civilizationand shed its light
even Unto the West. And as we are told that this will take
place when we see "the sign of the Son of man in heaven"
the sign Aquarius, the man with the water jarwe know
that the time is at hand; for our Sun and its attendant
planets has already entered the great Aquarian Cycle'
Since every fixed star, as well as the planets of our solar
system, is a radiant center of Divine Light and Life, each
with its own particular significance and influence upon all
the others and their inhabitants, naturally the divine efful.
gence and Spiritual Light and Life which radiates from the
Coming One as from a star, has its own special significance
and great influence, especially upon the inhabitants of the
planet to which He descends, i.e., this Earth. This mystical
Christ Star has already arisen in the heavensthe higher
spiritual consciousness of mankindand has been seen by
many who are able to raise their consciousness to the octave
of its spiritual vibration and be "caught up to meet the Lord
in the air." This means that their understanding is so
spiritualized that they grasp the meaning of events that point
to His coming. For the truth of His coming enters into
every sincere heart, and to all whose hearts can respond.
Hence, to meet Him in the Air means to rise to the mystical
heights of spiritual understanding.
This Christ Star has for some time been shedding its
glorious Light upon mankind and producing different effects
upon the various types of people according to their stage of
spiritual unfoldment, occult training and their intellectual
understanding of the Laws of Divine Manifestation.
That our students may more dearly understand what to
look forward to, in this lesson we will try to place the subject
before the consciousness of the sophisticated modern mind
in a way that is so comprehensible that it will even awaken
4Sec TA. M,u.g, of 4qwi.. Curtis., (apeer IL
340 The Inner Radiance
a thrill of spiritual understanding. For, just as with astro-
logical influences, the influence of this Christ Star can best
be understood by studying its effects upon the Earth and
its inhabitants.
Since this Christ Star ushers in the Sign of the Son of
Man, Aquarius, and the number of man is five 5man him-
self forming a five-pointed star when he stands erect with
arms and feet outspreadthis Christ Star must ultimately
manifest in a five-fold manner and have five Points, each
Point being a synthetic center of radiant Light, Life and
Love. At the present time, however, it is still more like a
great undifferentiated Sun whose Rays are seeldng avenues
of expression through which they can differentiate and be-
cothe focused into definite Points or centers of force on
Earth. It is this effort of the Rays to find focal points of
manifestation which causes such confusion and such con-
flicting claims of, "Lo, here! La, there I" among those who
are seeldng to follow the Light of the Star. For many
advanced Souls are today recognizing the shining of the
Star, but since they are of various degrees of development
and training in occult philosophy, it is only natural that
they should declare to their followers that the individual
Ray of the Light they have been able to focus in their par-
ticular center was to become the Star itself and the home
of the New Dispensation. Knowing the reality of their
vision, the truth of their experience and the sincerity of their
interpretation of it, it is only natural that many such should
look down upon, or perhaps condemn as sadly mistaken,
the claims of others who may be just as enlightened and
just as sincere as themselves.
As one might expect, the apex of the Christ Star is the
first point to manifest, and it would naturally find expres-
sion in the East. Later on the focal Points of the two arms
may be looked f or toward The Middle West, probably one in
the North and one in the South, while the two Points rep-
I The K.j S. the U,Ås.rs,, Cvat.s, 181.
The Christ Star 341
resenting the feet of the Star will very likely be located near
the Pacific Coast, one to the North and one to the South.
As the various teachers and centers of Light struggle for
recognition and supremacy, only in a few instances do they
realize that the work being accomplished by other teachers
and centers can possibly be a part of the Great Outshining
so long looked for and so eagerly desired by all spiritually
awakened Souls. Each center, realizing more or less dearly
that there must ultimately be established on Earth a spiritual
center where the coming Avatar can descend "with power
and great glory" to establish His reign among men, feels
that to their particular group is this entire mighty mission
given. Yet a little thought will show to each sincere thinker
that no one spot on Earth could possibly contain the entire
manifestation of the living Christ who is the Maker and
Ruler of every part of this Earthwhich is His footstool
and many await some miracle to establish their claims and
prove their credentials to the world. In fact, some leaders,
feeling the mighty spiritual force poured out upon nianldnd
by the near approach of the Coming One to Earth, and
having so little understanding of the Doctrine of Avatara°
and the laws governing His advent, they do not know that
this time He will not manifest as a mortal born of woman,
nor merely overshadow some human teacher, such leaders
quite naturally conclude that they themselves are in some
mysterious way to be so purified, exalted and transformed
that they will embody the Manifestation and become the
Christ to the world.
While these ideas of personal aggrandizement are pitiful
in their misconception of the Law, and almost hopeless to get
the mistaken one to correct, they must necessarily bring dis-
illusionment and disappointment to the followers of such
leaders and perhaps cause such centers to disintegrate en-
tirely. For ignorance of the Law cannot prevent the reaping
of the results of its misconception, since the truth about the
OThe Voice of Isis, Oarhsa, Chapter X.
342 The Inner Radiance
Star has been broadcast spiritually from on high for the
guidance of all who can lift their consciousness and respond
to its plane of manifestation, even though pérsonalization
and misconception blind their eyes to the truth. Yet we all
know that the light of any star is not focused in any one
spot, much less the Christ Star.
Such failures, even though other groups and centers spring
up immediately to take their places, naturally tend to retard
and delay the establishment of the various points of the Star,
for it will require many teachers and many centers and
groups of students to manifest each point of the Star.
Nevertheless they are but sad mistakes which the resulting
disappointment and disiflusion will in time correct for each
center and its sincere followers. Therefore we should have
great patience, broad tolerance and sincere sympathy for
each mistaken group until they recognize the truth. Yet
there are always some followers of such leaders who are too
advanced and too liberal minded to believe that the glory of
the Coming One can be confined to any one sect, center or
society, and many such wise men are asking in bewilderment,
as did the Wise Men of Old, "Where shall e find the young
childthe truth on this subjectfor we have seen His Star
in the East, and we are come to worship Him ?"
There is only one way to find the truth on this subject
amidst all this confusion of claims and teachings, namely,
to make a careful study of the promise as to how He was
to manifest at His second coming. "In like manner as ye
have seen Him go into heaven." Then we must study, with
eager aspiration and sincere prayer for enlightenment, all
that Jesus is represented as saying, both in regard to leaving
the physical plane on the last occasion and His promised
return. One of these promises was: "It is expedient for
you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter
will not come unto you. . . . But the Comforter, which
TAds I, 11.
The Christ Star 343
is the Holy Ghost. . . shall teach you all things." S As we
have said in former lessons, the Holy Ghost is the Love-
aspect of the Trinity, the Divine Mother, and it is only
through love that we can receive that "spirit of truth" which
shall make us free, or that spiritual illumination which will
enable us to understand those mysteries which must be
spiritually discerned.
The light of every radiant star can be seen by all, yet only
those who watch the stars and commune with their radiance
can differentiate one from the other. One interpretation of
the above promise is that it is expedient that the blind ac-
ceptance of the literal and historical conception of the Christ,
which has grown up during the centuries of propounding
only the letter of the law, should go away and that we should
cease to worship a personality, however great, but should
study the law as to the periodic manif citations of the Cosmic
Christ, and then utilize the illumination of the Spiritual or
Super-conscious Mind to teach us all things.
If we study the events connected with the manifestation
of the previous dispensation we will find this question an-
swered just as it was to the Wise Men of old. The glory
of the coming first appeared to the humble shepherds while
they were quietly going about their daily task of tending
the sheep confided to their care. Suddenly the heavens were
opened and "the angel of the Lord came upon them, and
the glory of the Lord shone round about them," i.e., they
recognized a new and most radiant star, "and they were sore
afraid." And the angel said unto them, "Fear not: for,
behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall
be to all people.... And suddenly there was with the
angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and
saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace,
good will toward men."
Since the Divine Light first appeared to, and the Angels'
message was given to the shepherds, it is only natural that
S S, Li.k., 0,9-14.
344 The Inner Radiance
those who are symbolized by the shepherds should be the
ones to form the apex of the first point of the Christ Star
to manifest on Earth and be the first to herald His coming.
Thus it was that even though the Wise Men could follow
the Star to the country where the manifestation was to take
place, they could not find the Christ Child, for He was
resting in a manger (Capricorn) unknown to any save the
shepherds. This humble resting place was necessary at first,
"because there was no room for them in the inn." Since
an inn is a place to which travelers come, abide a time and
then go on their way, in the individual it symbolizes the
mind, with its constantly shifting thought-guests, and where
there is no room for the Christ-consciousness to be brought
fdrth; for the Christ-consciousness is not born of the in.
tellect, but of the heart. In the world the inn symbolizes
the centers of intellectual culture, also the intellectual con-
ceptions of spiritual truth and literal teachings, neither of
which have any room for those humble teachings which are
striving to bring forth the Christ-consciousness in the hearts
of mankind, any more than a study of the heavens in search
of a new star can attract the masses. Also when the Wise
Men asked of Herodin the personality, King Desire; in
the world those who rule outer conditions, business, finance,
society, etc.Herod knows nothing about the birth of any
ruler who isto challenge his sway, and the Wise Men have to
find out from the shepherds where the Child is to be found.
Once more today, amidst the confusion of great claims,
those who are wise in spiritual things quietly continue their
search until they learn where to find and worship Him; for
the world is more apt to listen to claims of greatness and
supremacy than to the humble, unobtrusive shepherds who
seem to make so little impression upon the world, yet who
are the ones who have seen the heavens open, have seen the
Light shine forth and have heard the prophecy of the angel
and have found the Christ.
(To be concluded)
CHAPTER XXXIX
THE CHRIST STAR
PART IL Th SHEPHERDS AND THE WISE MEN
"4 there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the fldd,
keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the
Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about
them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear
not: fbr, behold. I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall
be So oil people.".St. Luke, ii, 8-10.
UGt us Thy grace to carry hence
To aU the world this Love:
To help to lead Thy children, Lord
Into Thy courts above"
Hymn of Consecration, Harriette Augusta Curtiss.
During the cycle of the previous Great Age, the Piscean,
while the Light of the Christ Star was but little recognized,
owing to the darkness of man's ignorance, his almost con-
tinual wars, his passions and his greed, it was, nevertheless,
shining deep down into the sea of humanity, like the two
fishes which are the symbol of the sign Pisces. And there
were always some Souls whose spiritual perceptions could
pierce the depths and recognize the Light, even though to the
multitude it seemed but the phosphorescence of the two
fishes. But in this New Age, when our solar system is
slowly passing out of the influence of the old Piscean cycle
and into that of the new Aquarian Age, we are told that
every eye shall see the Light of this Christ Star. That is,
every school of spiritual thought and teaching, all who are
steadfastly "gazing up in to heaven" like the disciples of
old, shall see and realize that His coming will be the ful-
fillment of the old prophecy and the Light of the New Age.
345
346 The Inner Radiance
It also means that a new great physical star or planet will
be discovered by astronomers.1
Today, which should be the great "day of the Lord"
the day or Age for the manifestation of the Lawwhen the
Christ Star is slowly rising above the horizon of man's con-
sciousness, we find that we are still in the shadow of the
"evil day" of the old cycle of spiritual ignorance, misunder-
standing, inharmony and confusion. As we have pointed
out, all the elements of the Christ Star necessary to announce
His coming are already manifesting on high and are being
poured out upon mankind, but unorganized and without co-
herence, manifesting as but scattered sparks which few can
understand, like a puzzle whose various parts must be
searched out and be definitely put together crc its message
can be understood, or like a star hidden by fog.
But as the Rays of the Christ Star draw closer to the
Earth and spread more widely they tend to focus in five
types of seekers who will ultimately individualize the Rays
and form the five Points of the Star.
Although the glory which shines forth from the Christ
Star and the announcement which follows comes not to any
one individual, group, center or sectfor no one of these
could confine the message or present it in such a way that
all seekers for the Light could find in it the satisfaction of
all their ideals and the fulfillment of all that His second
coming means to thembut "shall be to all people," never-
theless, in this cycle The Order of Christian Mystics was
the first to focus a Ray of that Light into a center in the
East (Philadelphia) which belongs to the first Point of the
Star to manifest, i.e., the apex, symbolized by the shepherds.
Is it not significant that while the Wise Men have to travel
from afar to find the Child, there should be, "in the same
country" where the manifestation is to take place, shepherds
quietly going about their daily affairs and tending the little
1 Written In May, 1925. Tb. new planet Pies. be. since been diacovered.
The Christ Star 347
flock confided to their care? And to them the heavens
opened, to them the Angel' spoke, to them was given the
Annunciation.' And as they accepted it and believed, they
saw the Babe wrapped in the swaddling clothes which are
so necessary to protect it from the world. Then they obedi-
ently and trustingly "made known abroad the saying which
was told them concerning this child."
In fact, after the Order had established its center in the
East (Philadelphia), the first Announcement' that was sent
out began with the words of the Angel who appeared to the
shepherds: "Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy,
which shall be to all people." But the realization of the
connection of the Order with the Gospel story, and its func-
tion in the world as the shepherds, was not revealed to it
for many years, not until it had proved in many, many ways
its faith and its willingness to follow the Star and obey the
Voice of the Angel. As in the case of the shepherds, the
full significance of the Announcement and the mission of
the Order could scarcely be grasped, even by the Founders,
and "they were sore afraid." But, nevertheless, they obeyed.
Only as they grew accustomed to the Light, so that its glory
no longer dazzled their eyes as it grew stronger and stronger,
and only as the messages of the Angel continued to expound
the mystery of the Coming and their consciousness ex-
panded, could they more fully understand. And altho they
have had to take many journeys and make many stops and
establish many camps by the way in the course of their
carrying the "glad tidings" to all people, during all these
yearssince January 1, 1908the center in Philadelphia
has been continuously maintained and has never ceased to
function! Also, they have seen the Light of the Announce-
ment which they presented to the world shine from the East
(Philadelphia), even unto the West (Los Angeles and San
tSc, kuon. on rh. Miwbfr if 4.g.If, Curt,,..
See lesson on TA. Asaa.datw.. Curtss.
dNow used In the p.mpldet describIng the Order and iti *ss'on.
348 The Inner Radiance
Frandsco), thus fulfilling literally as well as symbolically
one phase of the prophecy.
Aitho the shepherdswho naturally expound the Heart
Doctrinebelong to the apex of the Star, and even though,
in obedience to their angelic guidance, they have written
many volumes, in which they have endeavored to expound
the Laws of Divine Manifestation and prepare the minds of
their followers to understand and their hearts to recognize
arid welcome the Coming One as He draws ever nearer in
manifestation, they cannot manifest the Christ Star alone,
for all the five Points are needed for the complete manifes-
tation.
After establishing their center as a part of the apex of
eastern point of the Star, the shepherds had to have many
testings; for every one who is seeking to manifest a Ray
from the Star which shall help to enable It to focus into and
manifest one of the Points, must be thoroughly tested crc
his Ray of Light can be indrawn into and help form a Point.
And one of the first and most fundamental tests is for him
to recognize his own place in the work and realize that he
must co-operate with all the others who have proven that
they too belong to one of the Points, crc the Star can fully
manifest and shine forth and be seen and recognized by the
world.
The shepherds we speak of had to be tested, firstly, as to
their faithfor the first years of their work were performed
entirely on faith and without any outer recognition, con-
firmation, encouragement or help, and with very scanty
funds. Secondly, as to their couragedid they dare to
"make known abroad the saying which was told them con-
cerning this child?" Thirdly, as to their steadfastness
would they grow weary and disheartened at the world's in-
difference? at the scoffing and ridicule of the Scribes and
Pharisees? at the calumny, slander and deliberate misrep-
resentation of their Teachings? Fourthly, as to the manner
in which they spread the "glad tidings"were they pre-
The Chris: Star 349
sented so clearly and logically that even the Scribes had to
admit that their philosophy was sound, and yet so simply
and lovingly that the simplest mind could grasp at least their
essential truth and feed his heart-hunger upon it? Fifthly,
would they consider their mission hopeless because they did
not possess the gifts of the Wise Men but had only love,
devotion, faith and divine revelation upon which to rely
and to present to the world?
After the establishment of the Apex Pointthe Heart
Centerby tie shepherds, later we see those who represent
the other Pointsthe Wise Menbegin to appear, all seek-
ing to follow the Light as revealed to them until they too find
the Christ Child. These Wise Men are much wiser in many
things than the simple shepherds, for they have spent all
their lives in study. They have crossed the deserts of outer
material conditions, have passed through the swamps and
morasses of the astralthrough psychic research, etc.and
have climbed the mountains of intellectual attainment that
they might find and lay the gifts they consder most fitting
at the feet of the Christ; for they know that the time of
His manifestation is at hand.
First comes the Wise Man who brings gold. He repre-
sents those whose wisdom has made them financially suc-
cessful in the world, yet whose success does not satisfy their
heart-hunger, and who are seeking how best to utilize their
wealth in His service, yet who must seek the world over crc
they are willing to ask of the humble shepherds. They also
have the physical gold which they must lay at His feet to be
used to spread the gtad tidings of His coming. The First
Wise Man also represents those who have a great store of
wisdom, yet who sincerely think that the world should pay
them well for imparting it. Intrenched in this belief, many
of this class either write books for. which they charge ex-
orbitant prices (often from $10 to $100) or they travel
from city to city with a great blare of advertising, telling
of the great.value of their wisdom. And because they feel
350 The Inner Radiance
that they must have much gold with which to do His work
or ultimately to lay at His feet, they charge large sums for
their courses of instruction.
The testing of the First Wise Man will be whether, hav-
ing obtained much gold, will he use it as he at first vowed
he intended to? Has he recognized that since he represents
but one Point of the Star he should use his gold to help build
up and manifest the four other Points as well? all of which
the Coming One needs to make the Star the Day Star of the
New Age.
The Second Wise Man brought frankincense. This sym-
bolizes that praise and worship whose ingredients must be
gathered, laboriously and with great learning, from the study
of ancient manuscripts and philosophicstheosophical, her-
metic, rosicrucian, mystical, etc.and the comparative study
of religions. This group includes even some of the liberals
in the orthodox churches. And there are many teachers,
schools and centers who feel that this resurrection of the
best of the ancient teachings is their contribution to His wor-
ship. This gift is indeed a valuable one to lay at His feet,
for through it the proof of His periodic Manifestation in
each Great Age is made known and the reality of His Corn-
ing in this Age is assured.
The chief test of the Second Wise Man will be, is he wise
enough to give a proper interpretation of the ancient writ-
ings? Is he able to separate the dust of the ages and the
chaff of decayed ideas and outgrown conceptionssuitable
perhaps for bygone ages and conditions, but outgrown today
from the everlasting and living truths which underlie for-
mer Manifestations, and without an understanding of which
one Point of the Star would be incomplete and lose some of
its brightness?
The Third Wise Man represents those who bring myrrh
for their offering, the symbol of sorrow, anguish, crucifixion
and death. There are many of this class today who are giv-
ing forth the doctrineand trying to exemplify it in their
The Chris: S:ar 351
lives-..-that if the kingdom of heaven is to manifest on Earth
we must give up all joy of life, must frown upon all inno-
cent recreations, gaiety and happiness, must sell all that we
have and give to the poor or to their society and live a life
of poverty, ausferity and self-abnegation. Their sincerity,
their courage and their devotion to what they believe to be
the truth would do much to help spread the Light of the
Star, if they are willing to lay their limited ideas at His
feet. But they must be tested as to the sincerity and cor-
rectness of their conceptions, also as to what extent their
teachings are tempered with loving tolerance for the views
of others, rather than condemnation and self-righteousness.
We are told that there was still another or Fourth Wise
Man, altho he is not mentioned in the Gospel story. Four,
being the number of the earth-plane, the story would not
be complete unless representatives of all four corners of the
Earth, and the four great types of seekers for Light, recog-
nize, worship and lay their gifts at His feet. The Fourth
Wise Man represents a large class of seekers who start out
well and with the full intention of following the Light of the
Star, whose gift is service. Therefore, the Fourth Wise
Man is represented in the legend as being so intent upon
rendering service and giving so much of his time and sub-
stance to those in distress whom he met upon the way that
he failed to keep up with the other three Wise Men and so
was not present when they reached their goal. Indeed, when
Herodthe desires which rule the outer lifesought to de-
stroy the new born babethe Christ-consciousness--by kill-
ing out all the innocents, all that tends to awaken the Flame
of the Christ-light in the heartlove, compassion, brother-
hood, happiness, unselfish service, etc.this Wise Man is
said to have told an apparent untruth in order to save the
Christ-child and His mother, whom he had hidden in his
house. Even though he denied that he had seen the Child
and His mother pass byfor they had not passed by, but
had stopped and stayed with himnevertheless the Child
352 The Inner Radiance
and His motherDivine Lovewere safely hidden in his
heart.
The class represented by the Fourth Wise Man are very
numerous in the world today; for never has the world
known such stupendous exhibitions of philanthropy and
service for the welfare of humanity; such wealth and huge
Foundations established for peace, for the education of the
people, for the eradication of disease, for social welfare and
for the promotion of the finer arts of life and the moral up-
lift of humanity. Since their form of worship is service,
many of this class of seekers have little time for and see
little need of meditation or the special study of spiritual
philosophy, hence they are often considered or even con-
demned as irreligious. Yet they ultimately do recognize the
truth 'and find the Christ hidden away in the love of their
hearts. The test of the Fourth Wise Man will be as to how
wisely he has rendered service; whether from mere senti-
mental reasons, or from real compassion and a sincere de-
sire to help suffering humanity; whether personally for the
sake of shining in the world as a philanthropist, or im-
personally for the sake of the resulting good to his fel-
low men.
For the Christ Star to send out the full effulgence of its
glory among men afi these five Points must be established
and learn to work in unity and harmony, each giving to and
receiving from the other that special form of help which
each can give, and working together toward the one great
end, i.e., the awakening of the minds of mankind to a
realization of the Christ within, and thus prepare to recog-
nize His personification outwardly in the person of the com-
ing Avatar. For "This same Jesus which is taken up from
you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen
go into heaven." Only when all five Points of the Christ
Star blend their various Rays of Truth can they form one
'Acu I, 11.
The Christ Star 353
Great Light, in the center of which the Eye of Divine Wis-
dom can open and enlighten the world.
Even though the shepherds work ever so faithfully, they
form but one Point of the Star and cannot bring about the
complete manifestation. They need the help and co-opera-
tion of all the Wise Men gladly laying their gifts at the feet
of the Christ that these Wise Men may establish the other
Points and permit the glory of the Coming One to shine
among men. Remember that these Wise Men are not cer-
tain personalities or even groups or centers, but certain
classes of seekers. And the gold that one class has gathered
is greatly needed in publishing the Announcement of the
shepherds and in advertising and spreading broadcast the
"glad tidings" unto all people. The ancient wisdom gath-
ered by another class is also needed, but clarified and made
so simple that the multitudes may see it rise like frankincense
before the throne. Even myrrhthe symbol of misunder-
standing, bitter persecution and sufferinghas been needed
that the shepherds might more fully understand the suffer-
ings of others and comfort and bless with everlasting bless-
ing of the Christ those who come to them in sorrow and
tribulation. And above all, there is needed among all ad-
vanced seekers and followers of the Star, consecrated serv-
ice and co-operation which shall be so practical, yet so sincere,
unselfish and pure, that the world will gladly accept it and
be led to the feet of the Christ.
Only by such co-operation can the five Points of the Christ
Star become so unified that the Coming One can manifest
in their midst and the world declare: "Behold, the Day
Star bath appeared I"
CHAPTER XL
PREPARATION
"Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make His paths straight"St.
Mats/sew. iii, C.
"The first of all commandments is, Hear, 0 Israel; the Lord our
God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy
strength.".St. Mark. xii, 29-30.
"0l., Christ, the Earth trembles at Thy approach. The water and
the air and the Heavenly Lights bow down before Thee. The Earth
Thy footstool, on which Thou treadest, gives back its worshipful
chants as Thou comest Oh, Lord Christ, open our hearts that we
may recognize Thee. Open our minds that we may know Thee. Open
our lives that we may follow in Thý footsteps. We fear nothmg
that can come to this Earth, Thy footstoolfor we are Thy children:
born of Thy Love: fed on Thy blessings, adoring Thy Son.Amen."
Harriette Augusta Curtis:.
As we enter into this wonderful new Aquarian Age we
must expect many vital changes,1 both in humanity and in
the Earth itself, for this is the night-period which precedes
the dawn of the New day. It is a period of preparation for
the rejuvenation of humanity and the Earth. It is a period
of intensive housecleaning during which many of the old
worn-out things of the household must be cast out and
burned as with fire; old ideas, thoughts, habits and condi-
tions which have pinned us down so hopelessly to material
things and conceptions, and blinded our eyes to the joys and
blessings that are the hidden treasure which the Father bath
prepared for His children.
But let us not think of these changes in terms of terrible
cataclysms sent by an angry God to uproot evil and destroy
the wickedfor the more wicked we are, the oftener we
Sc. Cc..isg W.rld CAaRges, Curtic..
354
Preparation 355
have to incarnatebut as a necessary preparation of this
Earth and its inhabitants for the descent to Earth of the
Cosmic Christos' The house itself may have to be torn
down in places to replace rotted timbers and that a more
beautiful structure may take its place. Since man cuts,
blasts and deslroys the beauties of Nature and leaves ghastly
scars, simply to gratify his thirst for gain and self-indul-
gence, is it any wonder that God should also permit certain
portions of the Earth to be gashed and dismembered and
destroyed at certain stated seasons and for vital reasons, that
He may bring about better conditions and reveal certain
things purposely hidden beneath the waves of earth and
water until the appointed time for their use has come?
While all this is difficult to pass through, those of the
Household, knowing that it means more comfort and beauty
and less accumulated rubbish, gladly wait and watch as the
appointed servants fulfill this task; the forces of wind, fire,
flood and earthquake which, like servants, flit here and there
to adjust conditions at the command of the Father; "Pre-
pare ye the way of the Lord, make His paths straight." But
these changes are transitory for: "The servant abideth not
in the house forever; but the Son abideth forever. If the
Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free eed'
While this necessary but disagreeable deansing process is
taking place, let us, as Children of the Household,4 prepare
ourselves by carefully going over the little things in our-
selves that need adjustment, and decide what shall be kept
and what discarded; old habits, old ideas and methods of
thought: pet foibles secretly hidden away or perhaps flaunted
before the world, or which we have insisted be considered
sacred and be adored by the world. All such must be con-
sidered with discrimination that we may fit ourselves for
definite work in preparing for "Him who is to come."
lS "Tb Dactrin. of Avatar." In The Vdcs of IsIS. 137.
St. bk.. vdl. 35.4.
147
° Th Uvss.gs of Aqn.ri.. Curtu,
356 The Inner Radiance
Although all the planets are His temples, yet at this par-
ticular time this Earth is chosen as His sanctuary, because
He has chosen to come here and manifest to humanity in
embodied form, that He may again teach us and perchance
again awaken us to a fuller reli7-ation of the Christ within
ourselves, and bring to our remembrance in a more power-
ful way the essentials which have made us what we are
today and which shall ultimately make us true sons of God.
"And if children then heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs
with Christ." For, could we but see into the vast depths of
interplanetary space we would realize that every planet,
every star, every spot in our universe, knows of this great
event and is circling around this little planet in adoration,
blessing it and lending their powers to cleanse this Temple
and make it fit for the great and wonderful cosmic event
so soon to take place Already in the vestibule of this Tem-
ple, where the moneychangers sit and where those who traf-
fic in the doves of innocence and trust await their prey:
where ignorance, misunderstanding, selfishness and evil dwell
and revel, already the angels are waiting to drive these things
out with whips of the Law.
As we enter this New Age and see the sign of the Son of
Man in the heavens (Aquarius), we see all things in a new
light. We see Nature herself prepare to cleanse herself
and greet Him purified and reverent. The sea is ready to
flee before Him. The mountains prepare to bow before Him
and lay their treasures at His feet. And the inner fires pre-
pare to consume with fire unquenchable the tares of man's
sowing. Yet all is brought about in Divine Love and com-
passion to prepare the ground that we may bring forth the
Christ-seed and reap the spiritual harvest.
No longer can the natural questionings of the human mind
be answered by decrees of the church which evade the issue
and try to smother inquiry. For today many, many hearts
are eager to find and worship Him, but arc crying out in
darkness and disappointment because only the same old out-
Preparation 357
grown conceptions and explanations are offered them. Only
a wholesale housecleaning, both individually and in the
church, can dear away the accumulated hampering miscon-
ceptions, so long taught as truth, and reveal the Path that
leads out of the wilderness of life back to our Father's
house. "There is a path which no fowl knoweth," but which
each Soul must find for itself. "But where shall Wisdom be
found? and where is the place of understanding? Man
knoweth not the price thereof: neither is it found in the land
of the living. . . . It cannot be gotten for gold, neither
shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. It cannot be
valued with the gold of Ophir."
But ere we can prepare our hearts and lives for His com-
ing we too, like the planet, must pass through a great puri-
fying housecleaning. For every thought and desire and
every atom we throw off is radio-active, and does its part
to make humanity either better or worse. And we are re-
sponsible for their effects. In this way we are all largely
responsible for the conditions in the environment in which
we find ourselves. We never can know but that the seed
of the thing we see expressed as a wicked or sinful act by
another may not have been broadcast from sonic fiery evil
thÓught of our own which, unless thoroughly neutralized,
conquered and redeemed by us, may have found lodgment
in some other mind whose soil was prepared for just such
a seed. As we prepare the soil of our hearts to bring forth
the beautiful blossoms of the Christ-consciousness we must
be careful not merely to pull up and cast aside the unde-
sirable weeds, but must thoroughly consume and transmute
them with spiritual fire, lest they take root as an ill weed of
sin in some less purified garden.
Realize therefore that the whole world needs our help and
that we can help all we contact by radiating to the entire
world the degree of light, life and love that we have re-
ceived and realized from the Christ within. For we must
ioo. xxviii. 7-12-16.
358 The Inner Radiance
not think of the less evolved as impure, wicked and hope-
lessly separated from us, but simply as less strong, less ad-
vanced and fortunate children, whose minds are beclouded
by ignorance and whose hearts are clogged with selfishness
and sin, but whom we can help, not only by teaching and
preaching, but far more by the radiations of our minds, our
hearts, our lives. And as we consciously allow the stream
of the Christ-force to flow through us, not for our own sal-
vation alone, but that we may become greater channels for
it to help others, its radio-active force will purify our own
body and make it more and more a Temple of the Living
God. And it will also radiate from us to all we contact.
While we are thus preparing and purifying ourselves to
become His helpers, the forces of Nature and the Cosmos
are preparing the Earth, cleansing, purifying and adjusting
itjust as we must our minds and livesfor the coming
of a beloved and very welcome cosmic Guest: none other
than the descent of the Christos into physical manifesta-
tion. But not only must the conditions of the Earth be
prepared as a planetary chalice fit to receive Him, but a
more definite and human chalice must also be prepared by
humanity itself, that He may manifest in human form, and
again say to those who doubt: "Behold my hands and my
feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see, for a (mere)
spirit bath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have."
The Christ knows that those who love Him will gladly
take their part in this great task, the part best suited to them,
since it is understood; especially those who are so eager to
find and greet Him, yet who are crying out in the darkness
of misunderstanding: "They have taken away my Lord, and
I know not where they have laid Him."
Many devoted, sincere and well meaning Souls who have
realized the necessity of such a preparation of humanity,
and who are anxious to be of service, have interpreted their
realization as meaning that, since the Earth and all human-
St. Ls&e. xxi,, 39.
Preparation 359
ity is destined to pass through great tribulation, they must
gather followers and retire from the world to some remote
spot where they can build an ark of safety for themselves:
an ark with walls strong and high: with solid doors which
they can shut tight against all who do not think as they
think, believe 'as they believe, live as they direct, and accept
their dictatorship. But according to the vision vouchsafed
to this Order, if there was ever a time when humanity needed
advanced and enlightened Souls to forget their own safety
and the chances for their own personal advance and to re-
main in the world, ready to give comfort, help and instruc-
tion to suffering mankind during the coming days of tribu-
lation, that time is now.
There are many devoted ones who are ready and eager to
help in this great work, but they are like children who ask
their mother to let them help cook the dinner and make the
cake. Yet if they had not been taught how to cook and did
not know the difference between salt, sugar and spices, the
result would be anything but palatable and satisfying. There-
fore, if we are to co-operate wisely it is important that we
understand the Law of T
or Materialization,
that we may work wisely and without easily avoided mistakes
and wasted effort. Yet there is so much work to be accom-
plished, so many types of mind to be reached, so many
hearts to be touched, that we have no time to condemn others
who are called to work along other lineseach according to
his development and fitnessbut must strive only to help
them understand the universal law upon which the Great
Manifestation depends, yet demonstrating to all that Love
which we gain by worshiping at the feet of the Christ and
striving to become one with Him, because we have accepted
Him as our leader, instead of Super-men or even Masters.
While there are certain Great Souls who, through many
ages of seclusion and devotion have so unfolded their higher
T Sc. "The Law of )Isnifeutatjon" In Th. Tn,Sk Ab.u9 EswJSI.. .ni SAt
RIMe. Curthi, 33.
360 The Inner Radiance
faculties that they have become Super-men, who can in-
struct, help and guide many Souls into the Path, neverthe-
less for the true spiritual birth we must look only to the
Christ, for only Divine Love can transmute the atoms of
our flesh into immortal atoms. Only as we, of our own voli-
tion, determine that the inner Mystic Christ shall dwell in
us, no longer as a sleeping, unawakened babe, but a a living
Chrirt-consciousns.cr, the Divine Indweller, only then can we
eat of the fruit of the Tree of Life that shall nourish our
immortal Spiritual Body and enable us ultimately to take
on immortality.
The personalized manifestation of the Christ is coming not
to isolated groups or colonies alone; not to certain Move-
ments, Societies or Orders alone, but, after the catadysms,
to humanity, whoever and wherever they can prepare an ark
or chalice in which He can manifest: not in public to walk
the streets, be interviewed, etc., but privately to those prop-
erly prepared students and groups who have proved that
they are His sincere, understanding and devoted disciples.
Therefore, He cries: "Build me a body, not out of colonies
and buildings of wood and stone, but out of the atoms of
your bodies that you have purified in the fires of aspiration
and Christ-love: atoms redeemed from fear, from spiritual
ambition, from self-seelcing, from impurity and inharmony:
atoms transmuted by unselfish service to others." This is
not so herculean a task as it might appear at first thouglt,
for as we allow His force to manifest in us, all our atoms
that are prepared to respond to His vibrations will be at-
tracted to Him by the Law of Spiritual Affinity and will be
built into a fleshly covering in which He can walk the Earth,
as we have explained dsewhere.'
It must not be said again: "He came unto His own and
His own received Him not" For we will thus be lending
back to the Giver of all blessings atoms in which His only
begotten Son can be seen of men, so that again as of old it
S Tb. TruSk 4krS .J Sb. aai,, rt1.
Preparation 361
shall be said: «41 many as received Him, to them gave he
power to become the sons of God (Initiates), even to them
that believe on His name: which were born (spiritually)
not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of
man, but of God."
In proportion as we strive toward this great end are we
able to help bring about the manifestation of the Christ on
Earth.
"Blessed is He who cometh in the name of the Lord,
Blessed are those who can hear His footsteps afar off, yet
so near that He enters into their hearts. Only they can un-
derstand. Words cannot express it. Only the experience
can bring the realitation. Then does the Divine One touch
our robe of flesh and whisper in our hearts: 'My children,
purify with Love divine thy Temple that I may share it with
thee; that within it there shall spring up a fountain of un-
selfish love that shall help make it possible for this Earth,
now so filled with evil and inharmony, to become the abiding
place of the Lord Christ, a fount of refreshment for all
who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Then shall you
fashion a chalice for Me whom the mighty Chariot of Fire
is bringing to Earth. Then shall you rest upon the bosom
of the Divine Mother, and the Father shall clothe you with
the Robe of His Glory instead of the tattered and seamy
garment the children of Earth have worn so long. Thus
shall you help Me save the world."
Ss. JaM, I, 12U.
A2
APPENDIX
Prayers of The Order of ChruSian MysNca.
PRAYER 10* Lscnv
0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom.
That I may dwell forever in the radiance of Thy countenance
And rest in the Light of Thy smile I
MoaniNG PRAYER
I have within me the power of the Christ!
I can conquer all that comes to me today!
I am strong enough to bear every trial
And accept every joy
And to say
Thy will be done!
H*ÅUNG PRAYER
0 thou loving and helpful Master Jesus!
Thou who avest to Thy disciples power to heal the skk!
We, recognizing Thee, and rliing Thy divine Presence
with us,
Ask Thee to lay Thy bands (powers) upon us in healing Love.
Qeanse US from all OUR sins, and by the divine power of
Omnipotent Ufe.
Drive out the atoms of Inharmony and disease, and
Pill our bodies full to overflowing with Life and Love and
Purity. -
PRAYER 01 PROTECTION
0 Christ! Surround and fill me and Thy Order with the
Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom.
That it may purify, illumine and guide us in all things.
May its Spiritual Fire form a rampart of Living Flame around
me and Thy Order1
To protect us from all harm.
May it radiate to every heart, consuming all evil and intensi-
fying all good.
In the name of the Living Christ! Amen.
362
4ppendix 363
PRAm ow D*IIOXSTRATION
I am a child of the Living God!
I have within me the all-creating power of the Christ I
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my Courage,
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise,
My Power, my Wisdom, my Understanding,
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my problems,
Knowing they will be solved in Love and Justice.
(Mention all problems connected with your worldly affairs,
visualize each and conclude with the following words)
0 Lord Christ I I have laid upon Thy altar all my wants
and desires.
I know Thy Love, Thy Wisdom, Thy Power and Thy Gra-
ciousness,
In Thee I peacefully rest knowing that all is well.
Not my will but Thine be done, Amen.
Pwrza vo vu Dzvis* INDWILTfl
Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou who art myself and yet art Godi
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection,
That the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art within!
Even so, come, 0 Lord, Ameo.
PRAYEZ TO TEE DIvINE Movu
0 Divine Mother!
Illumine me with Divine Wisdoni,
Vivify me with Divine Life and
Purify me with Divine Love,
That en all I think and say and do
I may be more and more Thy child. Amen.
GRAcE BErou Mws
I am a creator.
By the power of my spiritualized Will
I consciously gather all the forces from this food,
And use them to create health, strength and harmony
In all my bodies (physical, astral and mental),
And we thank the Father for this niamfestatjon of His bounte-
ous supply. May we use it to His glory.
Pa*ymop DEvoTIoN
We, Thy chosen servants, to whom Thou host given the great
privilege of becoming co-workers with the Masters of
wisdom, ask that we may have Wisdom and Power and
and Humility to carry us through the work of
364 Appendix
We opea our hearts that the Divine Love of the Master may
fill us; that all irritation, inharmony and slothfulness
may be transmuted into Love that shall draw us closer
in unity to all our fellow workers both seen and unseen;
that we may grow absolutely one with the force of Wis-
dow and Compassion that is sent forth to acconiplish
the great work for humanity.
Give us all things necessary, that there may be no hampering
conditions
Lead us through this day, in the name of the Divine, Ever-
living Christ, that the will of the Father may be done
in us and through us forevermore. Amen.
Pa*za ion Wonw HARMoNY
Glory and honor and worship be unto Thee, 0 Lord Christ,
Thou who art the Life and Light of all mankind.
Thou art the King of Glory to whom all the peoples of the
Earth should give joyful allegiance and service.
Inspire mankind with a realization of true Brotherhood.
Teach us the wisdom of peace, harmony and co.operation.
Breathe into our hearts the understanding that only as we see
ourselves as parts of the one body of humanity can peace,
harmony, success and plenty descend upon us.
Help us to conquer all manifestations of mharmony and evil
in ourselves and in the world.
May all persons and classes and nations cease their conflicts,
and unselfishly strive for peace and good-will.
Bless us all with the radiance of Thy Divine Lore and
Wisdom that we may ever worship Thee in the beauty of
holiness.
In the Name of the Living Christ we ask it. Amen.
PRAYER iOR mE Cuassi Powsa
0 Lord Christ I Thou who hast planted Within me
The Immortal Power of Spiritual Love and Life,
Help me so to correlate with Thy divine overshadowing
Presence,
That all hampering conditions shall be swallowed up
In the Light of the Uving Christ Power. Amen.
EvwizNc PRAYER
As the physical Sun disappears from our sight
May the Spiritual Sun arise in our hearts, illumine our minds
And shed its radiant blessing upon all we contact.
A
Adam, 4. 40, 42 239.
Age, Aquarian, . 56, 97. 226, 255.
291, 317, 388; of AltruIsm, 31;
Piscean. 227. 345.
Aghaste. 212.
Agriculture, prices. 108.
Air, element, 180, 191 meet In. 339;
mcnta 203; purifiel. 202-3; vital.
Alchemists, 138. 189.
Alfalfa, 315.
Am, I, 8; visualize. 9, 37. 66,
253.
Angels, lery. 210; Karma, 130;
lower. 54' solar, 55.
Animal. aml man, 252.
Antasharana, 162.
AntIdote. 239.
Archetype.. 18.
Aries, 40
Ark. 25 26, 195, 359.
Armagesidon, Battle of, 32. 103.
Arthur, King sad Lady, 270; chsrac.
teristics. 273.
Atlantis. 304.
Atoms, 81; lintressed. 85-8.
Atta.....t. Mount of 258.
Avatar. 56. 153.
B
Babel, Tower of. 61-4.
Re-noes. Realm of. 216. 219, 220.
Botblebem, Star of, 216.
smoy 14.
BI00J, cosmic, SI; of ChrIst. 52 144.
Book, of Remembrance. 241-4; of
Nature. 246.
Brabman.klller. 74.
Brain, an instrument, 89.
Breath, exercises. Ill.
Breeding. 91.
Brotherhood, black, 183.
C
16$.
- Capricorn, 20, 99.
tS9. U, 110. 231,
256, 355.
Cause., 96.
INDEX
Cells. select, $2.
Chain, earth. 77; moon, 77-9. 84.
Challenge 262.
Change, inc of. 5, 33. 56, 72.
Character. evident 15.
Chariot, of fire, 22.
Cheerful, look. 185.
Child. Christ. 218, 220.
Christ. consciousness, 17, 110. 149.
246; cosinK' 143, 269- force. 91,
116, 144-7, 74, 186. 218; manIfest,
360; Saturn, 229; Star 337-53;
within, 7. 8. 24 147, 1S-6.
Christmas. story, 117.
Clothes, swaddling. 3.
Clouds, 323.
Comforter. 133.
Coming, second, 24; before 1973, 34.
201.
Compensation, 83.
Consciousness, ChrIst, 17, 110.
Constellation, 45 46.
Continent, American, 306.
Co-operation, b.,.h-_ 106; spiritual.
Cosn'ic Causes of World Conditions,
94. 102.
Cross, 246.
Curse, on Eden, 85.
Cycles, of experience, 96' of nations,
19, 56; of the year, 19; rule, 224.
D
Decaiis, 228.
Deceived, be not, 317.
Dcmocracy, true. 48.
niUted, 115-6.
Desire, King, 168; stepping stOne,
Diet, 86-7.
D'-"o-. fourth, 111.
Disasters, 301.
Dot, the crestive, 36, 49.
Draughts, 320-1; of love, 322.
Dreamers, great, 95.
Dust, star, 98.
B
Earth, air, 80; .ekjldren 84; .1-'-
181-6; ih5 sanctuary,
Eastman, 106.
Eden, 42, SO. 85, 229, 236,
Elect, 26.
Electrons, 814.
365
366 The Inner Radiance
Elementals, divisions of, 200; man
and the, 188, 198; poetry 204.
Elements. hymn to. 176; Mystery of,
176.
Elixir, of life, 160-S.
ElohIm, 37, 39.
Energy, radiant, I.
Ethers, 7.
Evil, of Atlantis, 31. 32.
Existence, object of, 11. 15. 62 167.
Eye, the third, 231-8; single, 2k
p
}all, of man 41-3.
Famine. spirItual, 327.
Fate, 303.
Fates, 153.
Fault., 59.
Fear, 23, 104.
Finance, planet of, 20.
Fire, astral, 291; .brands, 292' Bud'
dhic, 288-93; chariot of 221; con.
sumes, 290; Divine 175; divine
Love, 280' e1ementas, 208; from
Sun. 186; od's, 209; of Love, 289'
mstery, 296; negative, 283; 1
mind, 281; seven.fold. 277.
Flame, divine, 118, 182-6; of God,
280; visualize the, 184.
Flesh, "eat my," 51.
Flood, 195.
Flute, 204.
Food, 83-6-7.
Forgiveness, 144.
Form, an aggregation, 1, 177; evolved,
Fox, form, 75; George, 36.
G
Gardener, the Great. 119,
Gates, 328-9.
Gemini, 41, 42.
Ghost, Holy. 270.
Ciants, 31.
Glands, 47.
Glory, King of, 294-327; manafesta.
hon. 300; outshining of, 299.
Gnome., 189, 198-9.
Goal, 73.
God, Oman, 11, 17; man & the Planet,
233, 241; a fire, 209; consciousness,
89; image of, 252; love. 281; name,
294-5.
Gold, spiritual, 361.
Golden, age, 306.
Great and the Small, 121.
Great Work, the, 157.
Guerdon, 155.
Guidance, divint, 260; not conscious,
83.
H
Healing, 221.
He.rt, emanatIon., 287.
Heaven, Lord from, 53, 57, 127.
Herod, 344.
Hierarchies, 391-2.
Holy Ghost, 270.
Holy Grail, Knights of, 270.
Hormones, 47.
Housecleaning. 357-8.
Hungers, the three great, 61.
Husk., 124.
Hydra, 41.
I
I Am, 8. 9 57, 66, 241.
Ideal, vIsualize, 9.
Ideation, divine, 281.
Image, of God, 232.
Imperfection, created by man, 14.
Incarnation 84, 134; why, 233, 243.
Indweller, iirayer to the, 60.
Inharmony, created by man, 14.
Inn, of mind, 174.
Intuition, 42, 67.
Invisible, world, 252.
J
Jazz, 206.
Jesus, promIses, 342.
Jewels, created, 210.
jupiter, 20, 99, 105.
Jyepo, Rlgden, 21.
K
Karma, 335-6; justice of, 107; kinds
of, 132; Lords of, 51, 129, 136;
not punishment, 21, 23, 131-7, 176-
8, 249.
King, Desire, 168; of Kings, of the
World 213; poem, 69.
Kings, die three, 168.
Kreuger, 106.
L
Lantern, 185.
Language, the Soul, 61-4-5, 140.
Law cyclic 224.
Leajers, blind, 255.
Lemuria, 304, 312.
Leo, 20, 41.
Lepchas, 204.
Lessons by the Way, 303, 311, 319.
Libra, 41.
Life, cohesive, 1, 2; eternal, 221; law
of. 5; psalm of, 248; radiant
energy, 1' tree of, 237.
Light, the Óariat, 7, 48' effect of, 8;
of body, 256; of hckina, 271;
prayer for. 184.
Lincoln, Abraham, 88, 95.
Ungbufeniasn, 204.
Lingbunenia, 204.
Lipilca, 130.
Uves, lery, 212.
Lord, from Heaven, 33, 57, 127;
Glory of the, 294-302; of creation,
334; of Love, 293-6.
Lot, 20 98.
Lotus, twcl. 182.
Love law of 177; divine, 180.
Lucite,, 174.
N
Magnetism, earth'., 194-S.
)Lan, and the elementals, 18*, 198.
208' and the zodiac. 36. 45; fall of,
41-I; formed, 99; the Inner, 34;
Instrument of God. 1$; not a mor'
tal, 12; spIritual. 4-3.
ManIfestation, law of, 143. 224.
Manvautam, 52.
Mastery, attained, 111.
Master, message from the, 18, 127;
of the elemental., 189.
Matter 96
Men, Vi.e, 161, 218, 330-2.
Mercury, 162.
Iliad, an inn. 174; aspects, 212-3;
development of, 56; hiØier, SI. 236,
245; link betwç.. spirit and matter,
281; lower, 162; type., 92.
Mirages 316.
Mire, 1 earth, 247.
Moon.cbain, 77-9, 84.
Mother Earth. 178.
Motto, 187.
Mountains, 324-S.
Mummy. 73-9.
Music, 206.
Mystic, 95.
Mystical, ill health, 264.
N
Nature, voice of, 247.
Nebula, dirk. 98.
Night.period., 193, 243.
Noah, as in the day. of, 19, 9$;
sr-'-'.... 21 193.
Non.resistance. 17.
Note, loss, 24*.
Nucleus, selective, 83; bombardment,
0
Oak. 111.
Obsession, 206.
Odors. obuoxlous, 201-2.
Order, this, 119; hrst to focus Ray,
346; missIon, 347.
Orion, 46.
Oxygen, 203.
P
Path, the, 221.
Pattern, the inner, 2, 121.
Index 367
Peace be stIll, 291-9.
Perseus 42.
Physics!, not real. 177.
Pineal. gland, 251.
Plsan, age, 227, 345.
Plains, 325.
Planets, aspects, 20; at birth. $2;
mission, 234; relation of. 19, 31.
97; return, 22; rulers of, 214;
chosen, 22.
P1atitud, 326.
Pleiades, 46-7.
Plexus, solar, 241.
Poem, new, 69, 201.
Poetry, elemental, bucolic, 204.
Points, of the star, 240-4, 353.
Poise, 15.
Pool, of divinc Life, 351.
Poverty, 23.
Pralaya, 82-4, 90.
Prayer, effect of. 33; for light, 183;
stopped war, 104.
Preparation, 3S4 night period. 354.
Presence, the I Am, 8, 57, 241;
vIsualize, 9; realization, 66,
Principles, 330.
Production, pI-...il. 107.
Progenitor, 24.
Prometheus 209.
Prophecy, king of World, 213.
Pun*caton, 3S7-1.
Pyramid, measurements, 99.
Q
Qaot.lisus:
Acts, 11, 34. 230, 342.
Alchemy, Redgrove, 165.
Aquaria, Me.sage of, 221, 355.
Astrology 40, 45.
Coming *orld Changes, 64, 84.
(cthians, I, 11, 30, 45, 33; II, 1,
Curtis., Harriette Augusta, 129,
176, 201, 337. 345.
Ranch, 28.
Epbesutn., 274.
Evolution, Truth About E. and the
Bible, 40. 84.
Ezekial 294.
Five 'ear. of Theosoghy, 71-4.
Galatsans, 129.
Genesis, 81.
Hahakkuk, 294.
Idylls of the King, 266. 273.
Ins, The Voice of, 44, 141, 327.
Job. 121 157.
Key of bestiny, 49, 261.
XCT to the Universe, 140, 277.
Knight, the white, 270-1.
Letters from the Tcacher, 1, 93.
Light on the Path, 16.
Little ThIng., 319.
Luke, 20, 345, 358.
368 The Inner Radiance
M.h.& 132 241.
Mark. 51 154.
Matthew, S1 317, 319, 337 354.
Paracelsus. ik.
Philatheas, 157.
Philippians, 284.
Proverbs, 222.
Psalms, 62, 71, 121, 149, 211, 233,
258, 311.
Quakeriu., 16.
Realms of the Uving Dead, 14, 288.
Revelation, 216, 229.
Romana, 13. 59, 140.
Rubaiyat, 112.
St. John, 1. 28. 144, 266, 355, 361.
Secret DoctrIne. 36, 45, 53, 81, 229,
132, 188. 198, 208. 226, 219, 251,
275, 286, 303, 304.
Song of Solomon. 122, 221.
Timothy I, 327.
Wynn. Rev. Walter, 102.
Zephanish, 41.
R
Radiance, the Inner, 1; renews, 2.
Radium, 219.
Ram, 40; Indian., 323.
Ri7' of Love, 300; Lug of Glory,
Realities1 not physical, 177.
Recognition, personal, 62-2.
Redeemer, Christ our, 143-4 244.
RedemptIon, 240; .cienti6c, i46.
Reeueration, 145.
Reincarnation, chosen, 133; faculties,
223; Pharaoh. 89; picture claims,
U; qualities, 262, 331-3.
Reliance, 149.
Religion, must evolve, 7. 67.
Remembrance, Book of, 241-8, 250.
Revelation, 24, 161.
Revolution, 26.
Rhn, 19; I.nf=l. 204; broken,
Ring.psss.nol, 139, 184, 291.
River of Ufe, 222.
Rose. the mystIc, 221; symbolIzes, 212,
Rouni TaMe, 266; aura, 273; zodiac,
267.
Ruler, 1'y, 84, 214.
S
Sacred, cup.memory of, 272.
Salamander,, 189, 198, 208.
Sagebrush, 313-4.
Salt, 29G-2.
Saks, 150.
43. 99, 105, 226; and
cyclic law, 224.
Science, advance of, 8; no conlict, 4.
Self an emanatIon. 12; animal, 14;
higher, 37, 59; Real, 3, 84, 126.
Sex, not Impure, 171-2.
253.
Shepherds, 344; testing of, 348-9.
Signs. 45.
SsI.w., great, 309.
Simile.: gardener, 30; lantern, 185;
nut, 3; rose, 5;
Sin, original. 242.
Solomon, seal of. 269.
Soul, animal, 83-6; language, 61;
saving of, 334 twin, 251.
Speech, kindly1 16.
Spiritual amty, 360; .4L4.
Spirituality, not from $7.
Springtime, human, 56.
Star, Christ, 216; pointa of, 240-4,
Steme,is, wireless, uS.
Stockmarkst, 204
Stone, phlmheirs, 152, 167.
Summer 319.
Sun, sprstusi, 4$, 57, 67, 90, 237,
242.
Supper, marrIage. 173.
Sword, angel of, 42-3, 130, 134, 213.
Sylpha, 189, 19$, 200-I, 204.
T
Table, the Round, 266, 273.
Tarot, 161.
Taurus, 40.
Teachers. r...n..r3], 255; Intellec.
T Saturn, 227.
Thorns, 127.
Thought, creator, 24; creatIve, 257;
forms, 75; tests, 283-4.
Thousand. 244, SO.
Tower of Babel, 61-4.
Transmit, 71; atoms, $1; misun.
Tr*'*.tlon, 157-9, 171, 212.
Tree, materials requIred, 2.
Trials, tedS, 183.
TrIbulation, 26, 99.
Trinity, 26$.
Twelve, 49; symbol, 36$.
U
Ulcer,, 209.
Undlnes, 189, 291-8.
Unemployment, 109.
Universe, center, 47.
Unseen, all from, 96.
Uranus, 20, 99.
Urge, eternal, 2.
V
Virgo 41. 99.
Visualize, light, 184.
Voice of Nature, 247; stIll small, 296,
298.
w
War, prayer stopped. 104.
Water, element, 179-96; necessIty for.
193 321; of life, 221.
Wealtk use of, io&
White knight, 270; ÓCM & court of,
Wisdm. vs knowledge, 29; .religion,
271.
Wiie Men. 168, 218, 350-2.
Witches, Mcb's, 151.
Work, the great, 157.
Index 369
World, King of. 213.
World, war ended, 103.
x
X.ray, 263.
Y
Yogis, sacri6ce, 208.
z
Zodiac, Man &, 36-52; signs, 45;
Round TaMe or last Supper, 269.
The Universal
Religious Fellowship Inc.
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Fellowship presented in this volume
have interested and helped you, send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
Mrs. F. HOMER CURTISS, President
Hollywood 27, Callforida
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books jiresent the philosophy of Chrisrian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain. comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere thoery and metaphysical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy 01 life and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which Includes a rational explanation
of sU forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and afl after.death con-
ditions.
There are perhaps so books on the market today which so ful-
fill the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand how to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and cominq world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the heart.cry
for love, light and life.
Just the books to place in the bands of afriend whoisout-
rowIng former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chefs-
tian in their ethics, yet non.sectsrian, cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PifiLOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
Hollywood 27, CalifornIa
MAY McARTHUR- RATLIFI
1<' //'-
Sai, Francisco 18, Calif.
