{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__clymer___an_expose_of_imperator_of_amorc.pdf","mytitle":"An Expose Of Imperator Of Amorc","mylang":"de"}
Not Under the R Cross
Presenting documentary proof that
. H. Spencer Lewis— Imperator o f
pk A.M.O.R.C.,aspuriousR.C. &
Order— fabricated and Af
:
m copied secret lessons w
, from published m
V/m books M
Lewis admits that Crowley—Baphomet
k Anti-Christ—is his Secret Chief, i
and the Black Cult o f O .T.O ., £
' as source o f his authority, W
shows his connections M
•^ with Black Magic a
and inverted J f
t r i a n g l e ^
By R. Sw i n b u r n e C l y m e r
Published by
THE ROSICRUCIAN FOUNDATION
Q U A K E R T O W N , P E N N S Y L V A N IA
ffitk fte-timilt rffroJivittHt of DocuntnUiry Proof
-I
A N EXPOSE
OF
f
THE IMPERATOR OF A.M.O.R.C.
His Pilfering Charlatanism and
His Connections
with
ALEISTER CROWLEY
Notorious Black Magician
f AND
O.T.O.
ORDO TEMPLI OIUENTIS
Despised Black Cult
I
t
N ot Copyrighted
P e r m i s s i o n t o c o p y g r a n t e d . T h e
c o u r t e s y o f c r e d i t is r e q u e s t e d .
PREFACE
This brochure presents and makes available to all students of
the occult sciences and mysticism; members of secret schools, so­
cieties and fraternities; churchmen and the churches; serious seek­
ers of the Rosy Cross, and especially to all members of A. M. O.
R. C., a picture in miniature of the astounding career of a most
successful deceiver, a vile impostor, a clever charlatan and a crafty
sorcerer, who, having formed in 1915 an organization under the
stolen name of a holy order, under the false pretense that it was
an authentic Rose Cross Order— an order of White Magic and of
the White Brotherhood— while he was at the time of such organi­
zation, at all times since, and is now a member and affiliated with
the O. T. O. (Ordo Templi Oricntis), a notorious Black Cult of
the Black Brotherhood; who, since 1921, has been acting under the
authority of a charter issued by the 0. T. O., by or under the direc­
tion of Aleister Crozvley, its founder and Secret Chief, a notorious
and despised Black Magician, and who has, evidently, long in­
tended and now, as it is clearly indicated, is attempting by a process
slow but sure to convert his organization— the A. M. O. R. C.—
into a Cult of Black Magic, under the dominion of Crowley—
Raphomet— the A nti-Christ— whom he acknowledges to be his
Secret Chief.
It deals with H. Spencer Lewis, the Imperator of Ai M. O. R. C.,
and contains facsimile reproductions of the documentary proof of
his pilfering charlatanism— the use of published books to make the
secret lessons of A. M. O. R. C.; of Aleister Crowley, the notorious
Black Magician— Baphomet— the Anti-Christ, the establishment by
Crozvley of the (). T. 0. as a part of his A. . A . . and its objects,
nature and activities; of Lezvis’ O. T. 0. charter, the zvritten con­
fession of his connections zvilh the (). T. ()., his acknowledgment of
its Secret Chief as his superior, and of his indicated intentions and
bold attempt to eventually convert the A. M. O. R. C. into a Black
Cult of the notorious O. T. O.
As the Supreme Grand Master of the authentic Rosicrucian Fra­
ternity and Brotherhood in America, we have known that Mr.
Lewis possessed no Rosicrucian authority; that he had no right to
5
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
use a Rosicrucian name for his organization; that he is not a Rosi-
crucian; that he came not by way of the Rosy Cross; that he has
none of the inner teachings and profound secret work of the au­
thentic Order, and that he did not and could not impai t such teach­
ings and secret work to his members. As the protector of
Rosicrucian traditions and its sacred honor, we have protested
against the use of its holy name by an impostor; we have chal­
lenged Mr. Lewis’ right to use Rosicrucian names, titles and appel­
lations in connection with his spurious and questionable activities,
and in a recent contest with him in the Commonwealth of Penn­
sylvania it was legally determined that the authentic Order of the
Rose Cross, which we have privilege and honor to represent, is
entitled to the exclusive legal right to use all Rosicrucian names,
titles and appellations.* As the spokesman at the Door of the
Temple of the Rosy Cross, doing what we believed to be our sacred
duty, acting for and on behalf of the Rosy Cross and all other
schools of White Magic and orders of the White Brotherhood,
speaking solely in the interest of and for the protection of all sin­
cere and earnest seekers of the Path—of the Way to the higher
Spiritual Kingdom and especially those seeking the Way to and of
the Rosy Cross, we have, from time to time, in magazine articles,
pamphlets and brochures, advised all those interested as to the
spurious nature of A. M. O. R. C., advised its members that their
Imperator was not giving them the true teachings of the authentic
Order and have warned all seekers of the Rosy Cross and those
who desired to associate themselves with an order, society or
brotherhood of White Magic against the deceptive wiles, the in­
sidious trickery and the dangerous practices of Mr. Lewis.
However, it was not until recently that we were in a position to
prove to others by documentary evidence and otherwise, absolutely
and to a certainty, that which we knew to be true concerning Mr.
I * I t ' • . . c5
^ewis and bis activities.
We knew Mr. Lewis and understood his ways; we expected him
to afford us an opportunity to put him to a test. The opportunity
came as anticipated. On December 12, 1933, he challenged us to
public debate. \\ e accepted our opportunity and invited him to
join us m a complete and sweeping investigation before a compe-
* See monograph, R a n d o l p h F o u n d a t i o n th e A u t h e n t i c B o d y , H a s E x c l u s i v e R i a h t s
to U s e o f N a m e s .
6
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
tent and impartial tribunal composed of high Masons. He de­
clined.* Since he refused to join us in a secret and dignified inves­
tigation, we are forced to publish this brochure as our only alterna­
tive in advising interested parties of the true nature of Mr. Lewis’
activities and to warn and to put all on notice of his dangerous
practices.
We regret the necessity of making this public expose and the
publication of even a small part of the evidence that reveals the
true character of the activities of the Imperator of A. M. O. R. C.
and his Black Magic connections. Those who read this brochure
will quickly see and fully understand the reason why Mr. Lewis
would not— could, not— submit to a complete and searching in­
vestigation.
In spite of any and all appearances to the contrary, we have no
malicious feeling against Mr. Lewis; we hold no grudge and en­
tertain no personal animosity against him. We sincerely regret
that the necessities of the case have required the means pursued
and the remedies used. We have experienced no personal delight
in the use of the harsh terms and odious adjectives necessary to
accurately describe his activities, to properly advise all interested
parties ami to adequately warn all innocent seekers of the Way to
the Rosy Cross or of the Path to the Higher Spiritual Kingdom
against his deceptive double-dealing trickery and dangerous
practices.
As the result of our past acquisitions, information given and
actions taken to expose and make known his insidious methods and
practices for the benefit of his innocent victims and the protection
of the uninformed against his bewitching sophistry and fraud, he
charged in a suit in California, to which we were NOT a parly, in­
stituted by him in the name'of A. M. O. R. C. against two of his
former members that they had maliciously conspired with us and
others, to wrongfully injure A. M. O. R. C. and its Imperator.
We deny and denounce the imputation of conspiracy on our part.
The charge of conspiracy carries with it the willful and malicious
intent to wrongfully injure another. We have entertained no such
intent. We have entered into no such conspiracy. The informa­
tion we have supplied to others about Mr. Lewis’ activities is true,
and all co-operation and joint action with others to expose his illegal
* See monograph, A C h a l l e n g e a n d t h e A n s w e r .
7
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
and fraudulent activities and wicked practices have been fully jus­
tified, entirely proper and legitimate in every way. His recent
booklet issued under the title of “Guilty” making certain false
charges and imputations against us will have befitting attention in
due and proper time.
Let us make our position clear, that none may misunderstand.
We have in the past, we will continue in the future, to co-operate
with and to assist any person or persons, any organization or or­
ganizations or any member or members thereof to expose and to
put to an end the pernicious activities and alarming practices of Mr.
Lewis by any proper methods and by any and all legitimate means.
If anything that we have said or done appears to be a reflection
upon or in condemnation of the members of A. M. O. R. C., we
desire to disclaim any such intention or purpose and to make due
apology. We do not impute the iniquities and misdeeds of the Im-
perator to the members of A. M. O. R. C. They are victims of his
iniquities. They have not knowingly or purposely participated in
his wrongdoing. That which we have said and done has been in­
tended for the benefit and protection of said members— and not in
condemnation of them.
This brochure is of special interest to and should be of great
value and lasting benefit to all paying members of A. M. O. R. C.
We trust they will avail themselves of the use of this information
for the benefit of themselves and all mankind.
It is and should be of intense interest to all students of the occult
mysticism, to all Masons, fraternal societies and White Magic or­
ganizations. It is our hope that the information contained in this
brochure will be fraternally used as it is
Fraternally given.
R. Swinburne Clymer.
8
W I T H BL A CK M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
ADDENDUM
Editorial Note: Mr. A. Leon Batchelor, former Grand Treas­
urer of AMORC, has made an extensive Expose of the Lewis
methods, his management of AMORC and his alleged misuse
and misappropriation of its funds and property. The Expose is in
the form of a letter written to Mr. Lewis, challenging him to sub­
mit to a complete investigation, in which he charges Mr. Lewis
with much wrongdoing and several serious offenses against the laws
of the land. Of course, Mr. Lewis could not submit to such an
investigation, and Mr. Batchelor gave out his letter for publication.
Mr. Batchelor resides in Mr. Lewis’ home town. His address is
Lost Office Box 785, San Jose, California. The letter is lengthy
and the charges arc many and serious. We have made a brief
resume of this letter, with a few observations, which we have ap­
pended hereto, immediately following the text of this Brochure
and Expose. The reader will note that the ex-Grand Treasurer of
AMORC substantiates and corroborates practically all we have
said about the practices and methods of the Imperator of
AMORC.
9
THE TEACHINGS AND TRAINING OI'
A. M. O. R. C. ARE NOT ROSICRUCIAN
We have maintained at all times since Mr. Lewis launched and
organized A. M. O. R. C. in 1915 and gave it a Rosicrucian appel­
lation, that it is spurious and does not possess, and cannot give to
its members, the genuine Rosicrucian teachings and training.
We have not been alone in our position. Many others, not
members of or in any way connected with the authentic Rose Cross
Order in America, have also and likewise charged and maintained
that A. M. O. R. C. is not a genuine Rosicrucian institution and
that it does not teach Rosicrucian philosophy or give to its mem­
bers the real Rosicrucian training.
When we charged, insisted and often reiterated that Mr. Lewis
is not a Rosicrucian; that he never had at any time any right or
authority to organize or conduct any kind of a Rosicrucian Order
or institution; that he fabricated A. M. O. R. C.; that he took or
stole a Rosicrucian name for it; that it is a spurious and not a genu­
ine Rose Cross Order; that his methods are deceptive, his claims
false, his practices destructive and in no sense Rosicrucian, but con­
trary to and in conflict with every true precept of genuine and noble
Rosicrucianism, and that he has deceived, defrauded and misled
thousands of true, sincere, though uninformed, seekers of the Rosy
Cross by leading them into A. M. O. R. C. under the belief that
they were joining the authentic Rose Cross Order and that he could
and would make them Rosicrucians—of course, Mr. Lewis knew
that all these charges were true. How did he meet those charges?
He is the most cunning charlatan, most brazen pretender and great­
est bluffer of this age. He immediately assumed the attitude of
injured innocence, severely scolded us and boldly issued a challenge
for a public debate. We knew he was bluffing. We offered to join
him in a complete and searching investigation into the truth of out-
charges, the authenticity of the Randolph Foundation of the Rose
Cross Order in America, and the genuineness of our secret teach­
ings and inner Rosicrucian training. Did he accept? He did not__
he could not face a real test—a genuine investigation— so he
10
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
ducked as artfully as he could and ran at the first mention of a real
investigation. We have dealt with Mr. Lewis’ artful and insincere
challenge to a public debate, and our offer of a full investigation in
a recent booklet, which may be read with interest in connection
herewith.*
When some of his own members found, upon investigation, that
they had been completely misled, grossly deceived and defrauded,
they charged that Mr. Lewis had invented, formulated or simply
manufactured all of the teachings of A. M. O. R. C .; that he had
copied them, or a large portion of them, from published books, and
that none of his lessons and teachings were the genuine secret les­
sons or teachings of the Rosicrucians. Mr. Lewis also knew those
charges in be true. What did he do? He employed his favorite
trick— his first line of defense. He issued a challenge to those ob­
streperous members and shamed or bluffed them out of making a
real and thorough investigation.
The challenge above referred to was printed in the Cromaat,
“a monthly monograph privately published for members of A. M.
O. R. C.,” about the year 1918, written by Profundis XII° Im-
perator, being the “Imperator’s personal message and annual ad­
dress to all members,” in which Mr. Lewis explains the paramount
problems of the order, which evidently were many, since the major
part of his personal message was devoted to answering charges
made against himself and criticism leveled by the members against
the order. The rest of his message is devoted to self-laudation, and
bolstering and building himself up, as a shrewd lawyer bolsters and
builds up a weak and poor witness whose character is questionable
and whose testimony is unworthy of belief. We here reproduce
page 11 and part of page 12 of said Cromaat, setting forth the
members’ charges and Mr. Lewis' answering challenge (being fac­
simile Reproductions Nos. 1 and lA), as follows:
THE SOURCE OF OUR TEACHINGS
Perhaps the most important, because interesting,
though most absurd, of all charges made against the
Order, or rather the Imperator, was that he had,
personally, alone or with the help of others, in­
vented, formulated or simply manufactured all the
teachings in our Order from pages and paragraphs
* See monograph, A C J ia t t e n g e a n d t h e A n s w e r .
1
1
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
Pilfering
charlatanism.
Crowley’s
Equinox.
taken from books to be found in libraries in the
United States. Those who made the charge went
so far as to mention the names of such books as were
used by tbe Imperator in his pilfering charlatanism.
The titles of the six or seven books mentioned are
not recalled just now, though a few of them were
Bed's Electric Philosophy of Life, Crowley’s Equi­
nox, Library of Mesmerism, by Dr. D ods; Cellular
Cosmogony, by Koresh; New Light from the Great
East, by Parsons, etc.
Two years ago the charge was made by an Eng­
lishman posing in this country as a man of high and
enviable Masonic repute that all our teachings were
taken from one ( !) book called The Rivers of Life.
Absurd as this proves to be to any one who reads
that book, still tbe difficulty in getting a copy of it
for examination should have induced our genial cen­
sors and critics to add that book to the above list.
THE IMPERATOR’S CHALLENGE
Has used
recent hooks.
One will note that the books mentioned are either
old or rare books, such as are not to be found in
every library, if, indeed, they can be found in any
library in small cities. This makes it most difficult
for those who hear the statement to examine the
W ill quit if charges
can be proved.
books and make comparisons with our Temple lec­
tures or teachings. The Imperator has not ex­
amined all the books listed, but he has made this
reply to the charge and now puts it upon record in
black and white: if anyone can prove that one or
more of our lectures containing our fundamental
teachings, or that all or part of our principles, termi­
nology, laws, rituals and demonstrations were taken
from one or more printed, typewritten, engraved or
handwritten books or manuscripts printed and pub­
lished or made public before our Order printed its
first magazine and literature, the Imperator will
immediately concede the charge as true, incriminat­
ing himself as a plagiarist and false pretender and
permit, without opposition or further action, his im­
Just a bluff.
peachment and removal as Imperator, officer or
member of the Order. A legal agreement between
the Imperator and any body of men and women as
12
W I T II B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
an investigating committee, or with any individual
as an investigator, will be made, setting forth this
same promise and challenge, if such is sincerely de­
sired prior to any complete and exhaustive investi­
gation ; and every facility and assistance will be
freely rendered by the Supreme Grand Lodge, its
Council, Officers and Imperator.
If I have failed to mention any book in the fore­
going list which should be included because it has
been used by those making the charge, I will gladly
announce the titles of such books in the next issue
of the Cromaat.
AN EXCEPTION TO THE CHALLENGE
There is always
an exception.
As to who—
he does not care—
any book will do.
One exception I must make in regard to the chal­
lenge: It is this: no publication is to be included
which contains a veiled but very complete outline
of our R»pC teachings written and published under
a pen-name of my own, thoroughly authenticated,
but little known, and duly and properly copyrighted
in its entirety by me many years ago. This was done
in order to protect our teachings and secure a copy­
right on them before the Order started without re­
vealing them to those who should not have them.
Therefore, such a publication written by me, copy­
righted by me, cannot be used as evidence. This
will probably surprise one or two who have been
planning to bring this old and rare publication to
light, not knowing that the author’s name is my own
and the copyright also my own. But, again— fore­
knowledge has singular advantages not realized by
the unthinking, prejudiced minds.
As to who, in regard to person and personality,
prepared, wrote or formulated the original draft of
the laws, the principles, the symbols, rituals, phrases,
words, signs, etc., I cannot tell, for I do not know,
and, in true Rosaecrucian spirit, do not care. I feel
quite sure, however, that not one or a hundred
minds prepared these things, but many scores of
great minds in various ages.
13
I
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 1
Cromaat, Page 11
a zealous American patriot, and Sister A., born in Denmark, a trained
nurse and one who has for many years devoted her time and unusual
services to patriotic American humanitarianism. The falsity of such
a charge is apparent the moment one meets this body of twenty-live
educated, refined, cultured men and women.
That the Councilors paid no attention to the charges made against
the Order, the Imperator and themselves is due to the fact that their
intimate knowledge of the facts and the truths, made them unaf­
fected by the petty, mean, untruthful statements made by those who
sought first, to disrupt our Organization, and secondly, in the result­
ing chaotic condition to pose as saviors of the Order, reformers of
n great evil and slip into power and office, and control the organiza­
tion. The miserable failure of such a plan will explain the condi­
tions and actions on the part of three or four members or ex-mem­
bers whose plans and moves we anticipate and await during the
next six months with absolutely no fear; again, being forewarned
will not prevent, but will neutralize.
TI1E SOURCE OF OUR TEACHINGS
Perhaps the most important, because interesting, though most
absurd of all charges made against the Order, or rather the Imperator,
was that he had, personally, alone or with the help of others, invented,
formulated or simply manufactured all the teachings in our Order
from pages and paragraphs taken from hooks to be found in libraries
in the United States. Those who made the charge went so far as
to mention the names of such hooks as were used by the Imperator
in his pilfering charlatanism. The titles of the six or seven books
mentioned are not recalled just now, though a few of them were
“Ded’s Electric Philosophy of Life” , Crowley’s “ Equinox” , ‘ ‘ Library
of Mesmerism” , by Dr. Dods, “ Cellular Cosmogony” by Korcsh,
“New Light from the Great East” by Parsons, etc.
Two years ago the charge was made by an Englishman posing
in this country as a man of high and enviable Masonic repute, that all
our teachings were taken from one (!) book, called “The Rivers of
Life”. Absurd as this proves to be to any one who reads that book,
still, the difficulty in getting a copy of it for examination should
have induced our genial censors and critics to add that book to the
above list.
THE IMPERATOR’S CHALLENGE
One will note that the books mentioned arc either old or rare
hooks, such as nre not to be found in every library, if, indeed, they
can be found in any library in small cities’; Ibis makes it mostdif­
ficult for those who hear the statement to examine the books and
make comparisons with our Temple lectures or teachings. The
Imperator has not examined all the books listed, but he has made this
reply to the charge, and now puts it upon record in black and white;
if anyone can prove that one or more of our lectures containing
our fundamental teachings, or that all or part of our principles,
terminology,' laws, rituals and demonstrations were taken from one
or more printed, typewritten, engraved or handwritten books or
manuscripts printed andpublished or made public before our
Order printed its first magazine and literature, the Imperator will
immediately concede the charge as true, incriminating himself as
a plagiarist and false pretender and permit, without opposition or
further action, his impeachment and removal as Imperator, officer
11
w i r n B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 1A
Cromaat, Page 12
or member of the Order. A legal agreement between the Impcrator
and any body of men and women as an investigating eommittee, or
with any individual as an investigator, will be made, setting forth
this same promise and challenge, if such is sincerely desired prior to
any complete and exhaustive investigation; and every facility and
assistance will be freely rendered by the Supreme Grand Lodge, its
Council, Officers and Impcrator.
If I have failed to mention any book in the foregoing list which
should be included because it has been used by those making the
charge, I will gladly announce the titles of such books in the next
issue of the Cromaat.
AN EXCEPTION TO THE CHALLENGE
One exception I must make in regard to the challenge: It is this:
no publication is to be included which contains a veiled, but very
complete, outline of our lt^-C teachings written and published under
a pen-name of my own, thoroughly authenticated, but little known,
and duly and properly copyrighted in its entirety by me many years
ago. This was done in order to protect our teachings and secure
a copyright on them before the Order started without revealing them
to those who should not have them. Therefore, such a publication
written by me, covrighted by me, cannot be used as evidence. This
will probably surprise one or two who have been planing to bring
this old and rare publication to light, not knowing that the author’s
name is my own and the copyright also my own. But, again,—
foreknowledge has singular advantages not realized by the unthink­
ing, prejudiced minds.
As to who, in regard to person and personality, prepared, wrote
or formulated the Original draft of the laws, the principles, the sym­
bols, rituals, phrases, words, signs, etc., I cannot tell, for I do not
know, and, in true Ilosaeerucian spirit, do not care. I feel quite
sure, however, that not one or a hundred minds prepared these things,
but many scores of great minds in various ages.
A CRAFTY CHALLENGE
Just a Big Bluff
A careful reading of the foregoing will reveal that this, like all
of Mr. Lewis’ challenges, is carefully, skillfully, deftly and dex­
terously worded, so as to leave him a sure avenue of escape in event
of its acceptance. However, as above indicated, it was not made to
be accepted; that was not the idea or intention of Mr. Lewis. Had
it been accepted he would have wiggled out of it in some way, some­
how— that you can accept as a fact. It was not, in fact, a chal­
lenge at all; that was a misnomer. It was really a barrage of
words to scare and disarm critics— a boast and plea to silence
15
p i l f e r i n g i m p e r a t o r
A B O A S T F U L ,
clamorous tongues and to pacify and satisfy disgruntled or doubt­
ing members. It was a bold and successful bluff a ciafty tuck that
worked, since, apparently, no member accepted bis challenge.
Hence, lie went merrily on his way deceiving others, gaining and
losing members, making other false claims and expanding and
varying his misrepresentations and his artful methods of deception.
WHO MAY ACCEPT CHALLENGE
Perhaps we cannot accept this challenge If we did, he would
reply that the challenge was not made to us, or to the public, but
that it was a “private” communication made solely and only to
members of A. M. 0. R. C., but we can and we do herein produce
the proof—the positive and irrefutable proof that the charges un­
der consideration are true—absolutely true, which will enable the
sincere members of A. M. O. R. C. to accept the foregoing chal­
lenge of the Imperator to test his sincerity and to prove beyond all
doubt that the lectures and lessons of A. M. O. R. C. are not the
inner secret teachings of the Rose Cross Order; that they are not
from Rosicrucian sources, but that they were invented, formulated
and simply manufactured by Mr. Lewis and that he, in his pilfering,
plagiarizing charlatanism c o pied all or a major portion of them
from published books, some old and rare, but most of them modern
and available.
MEMBERS OF A. M. O. R. C. CAN ACCEPT
We Will Furnish the Proof
We c a n a n d w e do, with the materia) and proof presented
herein, establish the truth of the charges under consideration be­
yond all controversy and place the sincere members of A. M. O.
R. C., who realize that there is something rotten in their organiza­
tion, who feel that there should be a housecleaning from within,
in a position to accept the Imperator’s— Mr. Lewis’— challenge and
to demand of him that he "immediately concede the charges as
true, ina iminate himself as a PLAGIARIST AND FALSE PRETENDER
and permit without opposition or further action his impeachment
and removal as Imperator" according to his own offer hereinbefore
reproduced.
We c a n AND WE do warn the interested public and put all sin­
cere seekers of the Rosy Cross on notice of the true nature of
16
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
A. M. O. R. C. and the true character of H. Spencer Lewis, who
formed, fabricated and launched it in 1915 under a false and de­
ceptive Rosicrucian appellation, by demonstrating and proving
herein, beyond the peradventure of all doubt, that Mr. Lewis is not
a Rosicrucian; that he has no Rosicrucian authority; that his au­
thority, if any, comes from the O. T. 0.— Ordo Templi Orientis
(Order of the Temple of the Orient, or Oriental Templars)
founded by A leister Crowley, “the Most Illustrious, Most Illu­
minated and M ost Puissant Bapiiomet X° Rex Summits Sanc-
lissimus 33°, 90°, 96°, or, in other words, from O. T. O., founded by
Crowley— the Most Illustrious Master of Black Magic and a Most
Adept Black Magician, and that his teachings, lessons and lectures
are not Rosicrucian at all, or from authentic Rosicrucian sources,
but that they were invented, manufactured, fabricated or pilfered,
plagiarized and copied from published books.
May we dispose of the latter question first and then deal with
the source of Mr. Lewis’ authority?
A M O N G T H E R O SIC R U C IA N S
By Dr. Franz H artmann
w A Student of Occultism
In the year 1887, Dr. Franz Hartmann, the theosophist, pub­
lished a pure fiction, entitled An Adventure Among the Rosicru-
cians. This book, a most interesting and intriguing piece of fiction,
passed through several printings and at least three editions, and is
available today at all book stores carrying occult books at a small
price. >
The entire contents of this book, with one notable and a minor
exception, to be pointed out, was copied by Mr. Lewis, word for
word, in Lessons Nos. 44 to 60, both inclusive, of the eleventh
grade of his A. M. 0. R. C. Teachings.
Since A. M. O. R. C. is represented to be and most of its mem­
bers believe it to be a Rose Cross Order, it is reasonable to sup­
pose that after a member or student has been enrolled for many
years, paid dues through the first ten degrees and has been tena­
cious enough to attain the eleventh degree, next to the highest and
last degree or grade, that such student is entitled to be taught the
higher truths and instructed in the final inner and most secret work
of Rosicrucian philosophy, principles and training— but it is not
17
A B O A S T F U L , PI L F K R I N G I M P E R A T O R
so— far from it! On the other hand, these students and members
in the eleventh grade or degree of A. M. 0 . R. C. teachings are
being fed in rapid succession a mixture of the teachings of l hi oso-
phy, Mysticism and Cosmic Consciousness— however good these
may be— copied from published books, under the guise and label of
Rosicrucianism.
A ROSICRUCIAN UNIVERSITY IN SWITZERLAND
Dr. l'ranz Hartmann and the Great Paracelsus
We are greatly intrigued—no doubt you will be also— by a state­
ment of Mr. Lewis which serves as an introduction to his Lessons
44 to 60, both inclusive, of the eleventh grade of A. M. O. R. C.
teachings, copied almost in tolo from Dr. Hartmann’s Among the
Rosicrucians, which we reproduce from his said Lesson No. 44
(being facsimile Reproduction No. 2), as follows:
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 2
c t J
As stated in m
y last lecture or talk, w
e are now at a point where I
want to introduce to you the words of another person and this time it
will be the words of a very eminent Rosicrucian w
h
o was really a great
/ mystic. I refer to M
r. Franz Hartm
ann. Little is know
n about his
private life except that h
e w
as a physician and v e r y f ^ r ^ Y . 4 1
1 l l f e - T
• becam
e illuminated and not only followed very cTTsely the Rosicrucian
studies until he mastered m
u
ch of them
, but he delved deeply into all
of the Oriental philosophies and sciences, and w
as a truly learned
t j m
an
. It w
as he w
h
o went to Easle, Switzerland, to study at the old
7# Rosicrucian university. It w
as tnere Paracelsus had been a student
*• and later a professor, and later a great master, and while in Basle,
Dr. Hartm
ann had the opportunity of being the personal physican to
I l/
.m
e
. Blavatsky, w
h
o w
as hidden away in this wonderful, alluring, beauti-
f » ful city high u
p in the Alps and along the banks of the Rhine River.
q • The m
any times that I have been in this city and have been in the sam
e
hotel and sam
e old house in which M
m
e. Blavatsky stayed for a time,
and where she and Dr. Hartm
ann had so m
an
y consultations over the
manuscripts she w
as preparing to give to the world, I have felt the
vibrations of this mystic city and even all of those w
ho were with us
on a trip one time to this city agreed that there w
as no m
ore fascinat­
ing place w
e ever visited than this old-fashioned town, which is n
ow
becoming a very active center of m
an
y international affairs.
M
any eminent Rosicrucians in the past had m
ad
e this town their hide
away place while preparing manuscripts and consulting the marvelous
library at the university. It w
as here, too, that the great masters
first cam
e to M
m
e. Blavatsky and helped her in establishing her plans
for the foundation of the Theosophical Society and Dr. Hartm
ann no
doubt helped in this also, because he always held a very w
arm place
for M
m
e. Blavatsky's work.
Introductory statements made by II. Spencer Lewis in Lesson 44, of the Eleventh
Grade, A. M. O. R. C. Compare the above with R e p r o d u c t i o n s N o s . 3 a n d 4. Note
carefully that Dr. Hartmann himself states that in 1887, when the first edition of his
book A m o n g th e R o s i c r u c i a n s was issued, n o t e v e n a n a t t e m p t h a d b e e n m a d e to
establish such an institution as Mr. Lewis would have us believe had long existed
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
CLEVER PREVARICATION
Let the reader please note Mr. Lewis’ statement and claim that
Dr. Franz Hartmann was a Rosicrucian; that there was and still
is a Rosicrucian University at Basle, Switzerland; that Paracelsus
had been a student and later a professor in that university and that
there is a marvelous library at that university, which many eminent
Rosicrucians have consulted in preparing manuscripts— not a single
one of which is true— all of them are false. Perhaps Mr. Lewis
knew them to be false, if not, he could have known that they are
not true, and should have known before he undertook to instruct
advanced students in Rosicrucian teachings.
What are the facts so easily ascertained?
DR. HARTM ANN NOT A ROSICRUCIAN
Dr. Franz Hartmann was not a Rosicrucian. He never made
such a claim. He was a Theosophist, heart and soul, and never
made any other claim. No scholar or knowing person would rep­
resent Dr. Hartmann to be a Rosicrucian. It is true that he wrote
the book Among the Rosicrucians herein referred to, and translated
and made a reprint in English of old and valuable German manu­
scripts under the title of The Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians.
These titles and the use of the word “Rosicrucian” therein may
lead the careless, the presumptuous and the gullible to the errone­
ous conclusion that he was a Rosicrucian, but they will not mislead
the student who looks deeper than the surface.
The book An Adventure Among the Rosicrucians is a fiction,
pure and simple, so admitted to be by its author, and is so under­
stood and classified by all scholars and by all real students of occult
literature. It was written, not by a Rosicrucian Initiate, but by
a well-known and prominent Theosophist and is only a picture of
his imagination— an admitted dream of his soul.
To show that Dr. Hartmann did not claim to be the author of
The Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians^ and that it was only a
translation and reprint in English ot Uerman manuscripts, we re­
produce the advertisement of said book that appears in the 1890,
second edition, of Among the Rosicrucians (being facsimile Re­
production No. 3 ), "a? fUilOlvT
§! ~ ■
■
19
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 3
THE SECRET SYMBOLS OF THE
ROSICRUCIANS
OF THE SIXTEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES,
WITH A TREATISE ON THE
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE.
COPIED AND TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY
FRANZ HARTMANN, M.D.
The plates of the Secret Symbols, 27 in number, have been
colored by hand, exactly duplicatin' the originals which Bn.
H a r t m a n n secured during his researches among ancient Mss.
and occult works in Germany.
“ Tbo publication is timely, and cannot fail to attract and cntcilain many
persons who 6eek the symbols of eternal verities In these mysterious paths.
Whether or not the Koalcruchina ever existed as an actual secret confrater­
nity is an open question with the public; and those who are beat entitled to
apeak with authority are significantly silent in this parliculur. But no com­
petent occultist or mystic has any doubts, or will ever fully divulge the eso­
teric facts in the case. The volume is handsomely gotten up, showing both
taste and enterprise on the part of the publishers ^ind ])R. H a r t m a n n has
already won enviable spurs in the literature of occultism which he is, from
his connection with the Indian Branch of the Theosophical Society, well
fitted to adorn.” — P ko f. E llio t Coues, F.T.S.
DR. HARTMANN A THEOSOPIIIST
Attention is directed to the statement of Prof. Elliot Cowes,
Fellow of the Theosophical Society, quoted in the above reproduced
advertisement, wherein it is authoritatively stated that Dr. Hart­
mann was a member of the Indian Branch of the Theosophical
Society.
It must, therefore, be concluded that Dr. Hartmann, as we have
stated and here repeat, was a Theosophist. It should not and
cannot be concluded that, because he was an occult investigator who
wrote fiction under a Rosicrucian title and translated and reprinted
manuscripts dealing with Rosicrucian symbols, such action on
his part made him a Rosicrucian. We repeat, without fear of suc­
cessful contradiction, that Dr. Hartmann was not a Rosicrucian
and that he did not attempt to give—did not claim to give__any of
1 • the inner or secret teachings of the Rosicrucians in his book which
Mr. Lewis copied in his lessons and gives to his eleventh grade
members as the higher secret work and profound inner teachings
20
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
of the Rosicrucians. Thus have members of A. M. O. R. C. been
deceived, beguiled and betrayed by the cleverest, yet the most
damnable, chicanery.
A ROSICRLCIAN UNIVERSITY
At Basle, Switzerland
Mr. Lewis has created, in his imagination, several ancient Rose
Cross Colleges and Universities, none of which ever existed in fact.
He had one of them— we believe it was a Rose Cross University
or College in France— confer upon him the academic degree of
Doctor of Philosophy.
So, even so he glibly talks about the old Rosicrucian University
at Basle, Switzerland, with its marvelous library, where the great
Paracelsus and Dr. Hartmann were trained and where many emi­
nent Rosicrucians hid away while preparing manuscripts. The same
place where the great masters first came to Mme. Blavatsky and
helped her in making the plans and establishing the Theosophical
Society. All of this is absolutely false— an intriguing deception—
an unadulterated sophistication. Yet this is a fair sample of the
“stuff” which he has regularly and constantly dished out and fed to
his members since he first organized his order (A. M. O. R. C.)
and plagiarized a Rosicrucian name for it in the year 1915.
Every real Rosicrucian knows that a Rosicrucian University
never existed at Basle in the beautiful Alps, or elsewhere in Switzer­
land at any time. However, to prove to those not informed on the
subject, who for some reason or other erroneously believe that Dr.
Hartmann was actually describing such a university in his book
Among the Rosicrucians, instead of a fictitious monastery— a
dream, not a reality— we reproduce Dr. Hartmann’s own state­
ment, published as an appendix to his book, appearing in the sec­
ond edition, 1890, and all subsequent editions (being facsimile
Reproduction No. 4).
21
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 4
APPENDIX.
A ROSICRUCIAN INSTITUTION IN SWITZERLAND.
Q OME time after the first edition of the fore-
y j going pages appeared, an attempt was made in
republican Switzerland to carry into effect these
ideas. In the midst of the mountains, among
the most sublime and picturesque scenery, upon
a secluded hill near the shore of the most beau­
tiful Italian lake, extensive grounds were pur­
chased, and it was proposed to build a house
whose object it was to serve as a refuge for
those who wanted to cultivate spirituality pure
and simple, without any admixture of priestcraft
and superstition. It has not yet been finally
decided whether this undertaking will be a suc­
cess or a failure ; but the latter is more than
probable, as the method of thinking in old dilapi­
dated and dying Europe is too narrowminded to
permit of grasping such an exalted idea; which
This Appendix appeared in the s e c o n d and th ir d , the 1890 and 1893, editions of
Hartmann’s book A m o n g t h e R o s i c r u c i a n s . Compare these frank statements with the
utterly misleading introductory remarks ( R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 2 ) , which form part of
Lesson 4
4
-, Eleventh Grade, of the A. M. O. R. C. lessons. In 1893, when the third
edition was published, not even an attempt had been made to establish such an
institution.
22
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
This statement, made by the author of Among the Rosicrucians
in the second and subsequent editions, is clear enough for all to
understand. Dr. Hartmann— the Theosophist, extensive traveler
in the old world, occult scholar, author and interpretative investi­
gator— was very frank in telling his readers that such a university
did not exist. He made it very clear that the Monastery or the
institution about which he had written in his book An Adventure
Among the Rosicrucians was only an idea— one of his hopes— one
of his dreams. He tells his readers of an attempt that was made to
carry out his ideas after the first edition was published and ex­
pressed the serious doubt of its success in Europe and declared that
youthful, free and clear-seeing America alone held forth such a
hope.
It will be noted and observed that even at the date of the last
edition ( 1893), in which the foregoing statement of the author
appears, not even a house had been constructed. As a matter
of fact, Dr. Hartmann’s idea— his dream— was never carried out.
There never has been and there is not now such a Rosicrucian Uni­
versity in Switzerland. That is simply one of Mr. Lewis’ clever
and crafty misrepresentations built around Dr. Hartmann’s fiction.
“THE THEOSOPHICAL MONASTERY”
As a matter of fact, Dr. Hartmann did not describe a university
—not even one of fiction— wherein he or anyone else attended as
students. In the second chapter the fictitious institution is referred
to as “The Theosophical M o n a s t e r y and the headline of that
chapter on all odd numbered pages from 25 to 77, both inclusive,
is: T iie T heosophical M onastery. When Mr. Lewis copied
Chapter II into his lesson, he deleted and omitted the word “T iieo-
sophical” and simply headlined his lesson T he M onastery so
as to leave the false impression that Dr. Elartmann was describing
a Rosicrucian Monastery. Such simple trickery to which some
charlatans resort! (See facsimile Reproductions Nos. 7 and 8.)
PARACELSUS AND MARVELOUS LIBRARY
Paracelsus, a great occultist, master, adept and perhaps the in­
spiration for the Rosicrucian Brotherhood— so far as Mr. Lewis
knows— was born in 1490 and departed this life in 1541, some 73
years before the August Fraternity became known as the Brother-
23
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
hood of the Rosy Cross or by any other Rosicrucian appellation.
This being true, just how could Paracelsus attend a Rosicrucian
University before the Fraternity of the Rosicrucians existed— a
university which did not exist when Dr. Hartmann wrote his Ad­
venture Among the Rosicrucians in 1887 or thereafter? And
just how could “many eminent Rosicrucians in the past ’ consult
the marvelous library at the University that never existed? No­
body knows but Mr. Lewis— and HE does not know— he just
said so! A mis-statement of important facts is not important— at
least does not matter very much to this arch-pretender and pilfering
charlatan who built his spurious Rosae Crucis Order on a founda­
tion of falsehood with a superstructure of ingenious, crafty decep­
tion and cunning misrepresentation.
THE ADEPT PLAGIARIZER ALSO AN EXPERT
EXPUNGL R AND DELETER
Do you feel that the foregoing language is too severe and that
the serious charges are not justified in fact? If so, then may we
show you a clever bit of expunging and deleting by Mr. Lewis and
explain— make exceedingly clear to you—his reason for deleting
and omitting the use of one paragraph, while otherwise using, ex­
cept as noted, the entire contents of Dr. Hartmann’s Adventure
Among the Rosicruciansl
As before stated, Mr. Lewis copied the entire contents of the
above-mentioned book into his Lessons Nos. 44 to 60, both inclu­
sive, of the eleventh degree, with noted exceptions, the notable ex­
ception being the omission in his lessons of Dr. Hartmann’s men­
tion of Johann Valentin Andrea, to whom he gave credit for found­
ing the Order.
The part omitted the only major part of the entire book so
omitted from his lessons— appears on pages 39 and 40 of Among
the Rosicrucians (second edition, 1890), and is as follows:
THE OMITTED PARAGRAPH
Andrea: author of
I he Imperator again, reading my thought, cor­
rected my mistake. The name ‘Rosicrucian Order,’or
the ‘Order of the Golden and Rosy Cross,’he said, is a
comparatively modern invention andwas first used by
Johann Valentin Andrea, who invented the story
24
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
of the knight, Christian Rosencreuz, for the same
purpose as Cervantes invented his Don Quicliote de
la M ancha; namely, for the purpose of ridiculing
the would-be adepts, reformers and gold makers of
his age, when he wrote his celebrated Faina Fra­
ternitatis. Before his pamphlet appeared, the name
Rosicrucian did not mean a person belonging to some
certain organized society by that name, but it was a
generic name, applied to all occultists, adepts, al­
chemists, or, in fact, to anybody who was or pre­
tended to be in possession of some occult knowledge
and who was, therefore, supposed to be acquainted
with the secret signification of the Rose and the
Cross symbols which have been adopted by the
Christian church, which were, however, not invented
by her, but which were used by all occultists thou­
sands of years before Christianity was known.
These symbols do not belong exclusively to the
Christian church, nor can they be monopolized by
her. They are as free as the air for anyone who
can grasp their meaning, and unfortunately very
few of your Christians know that meaning; they
only worship the external forms and know nothing
about the living principle which those forms rep­
resent.”
THE REASON FOR THE OMISSION
Why did Mr. Lewis omit from his lessons the matter above
quoted when he copied and used (except as noted) all of the rest
and remainder of Dr. Hartmann’s book? Because, in the omitted
matter, Dr. Hartmann attributed the authorship of the celebrated
Fama Fraternitatis, which announced the formation and existence
of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood or Order, to Johann Valentin
Andrea and thereby accredited him with being the founder of the
Fraternitatis Rosae Crucis, or the Order of the Rosy Cross, which
is a fact known to be true by all real Rosicrucians and accepted as
true by all correctly informed investigators and writers on tbe
subject.
It was omitted because it contradicted and disproved M r .
L ewis’ claim that Sir Francis Bacon was tiie founder of
the Rosicrucian Order. ( See facsimile Reproductions Nos. 5,
5A and 6. Compare carefully.)
Fama Fraternitatis,
founder of the
Order.
Meaning of name.
Then pre-empted by
Order of the
Rosy Cross.
25
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
DR. HARTMANN ACCEPTED AS A ROSICRUCIAN
AUTHORITY BY MR. LEWIS
Mr. Lewis apparently accepted Dr. Hartmann as an authority
on all Rosicrucian matters and affairs, except on the important
question as to who founded the Rosicrucian Order, and inasmuch
as Dr. Hartmann’s correct ideas and accurate information on the
subject did not agree with Mr. Lewis’s false claims and the gieat
amount of false propaganda which he has released upon the same
subject, he simply deleted it— CONVENIENTLY OMITTED IT and
proceeded, except as noted, to copy all the rest of the book, and
having done so—without a twinge of conscience— he informs his
members that:
In its entirety. “We have now finished the wonderful manu-
Italics ours. script that I wanted you to have in its entirety."
(Lesson No. 60, page 2, Eleventh Grade.)
“IN ITS ENTIRETY”
Having deleted and omitted a notable portion of Dr. Hart­
mann’s text and, in doing so, having concealed an all-important fact,
he led his members to believe that he had given to them in its en­
tirely a wonderful manuscript. Why did he not tell his members
the truth—just the simple truthf Why did he not tell his eleventh
grade members—whose confidence he surely had and abused—
otherwise they would not have stayed with him through all these
years and paid him $2.00 per month while passing from the first
grade through the tenth grade—we ask: why did he not tell his
eleventh grade members that Dr. Franz Hartmann, an eminent and
learned occult writer, an honored member of the Theosophical So­
ciety of India, had written a beautiful and interesting f ic t io n about
the Rosicrucians, but containing principally Theosophical teachings,
under the title of An Adventure Among the Rosicrucians, which
they could buy in almost any book store for about $2.00 per copy,
instead of copying all of Dr. Hartmann’s book, with the one nota­
ble exception, and another minor change, into his lessons and charg­
ing his members $2.00 (dues) per month for sixteen (16) mimeo­
graphed lessons containing the same matter?
Let us see. At the rate of four lessons per month at $2.00 per
month, Dr. Hartmann’s book made into sixteen lessons will bring
$8.00; at the rate of two lessons per month, will bring $16.00, and
26
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
at the rate of one lesson per month, will bring $32.00. Thus we
see— now we know— why Mr. Lewis did not tell his members the
truth. It did not— and it will not—pay.
Authors of occult and popular fiction can learn a lesson in sales­
manship from Mr. Lewis, and members of A. M. O. R. C. will
learn to their astonishment, chagrin and misfortune.
THIS MANUSCRIPT
Several Versions
And then, after having pilfered and misused Dr. Hartmann’s
text, except as noted, and in a manner recognized Dr. Hartmann
as the author, he showed his deep appreciation, his profound grati­
tude and expressed his thanks— acknowledged his debt to Dr.
Hartmann— by questioning and throwing doubt upon his author­
ship in these words:
“I have learned lately that there are several versions of
this manuscript, probably translations by several different mys­
tics, and that these versions vary only slightly in an occasional
word.” (Lesson No. 60, page 2, Eleventh Grade.)
That statement and every implication, insinuation and innuendo
that it carries with it is as false as Satan. Dr. Hartmann was the
author— the originator of the fictitious work which Mr. Lewis
pilfered, misused, misrepresented and sold and is selling to his mem­
bers at so much per lesson. That was Dr. Hartmann’s own
“dream child”— the product of his own mind— an expression in
words and written language of the fondest hopes of his soul. It
was not a translation “by several different mystics” of an old or
prior existing manuscript.
When a person steals the work of a man, sells it to others under
rank misrepresentations for a price and then undertakes to dis­
credit the author whose work he stole and sold— what shall we say
of such practices— of such a person?
There are not words or combinations of words sufficient in in­
tensity of meaning to fully express the utter contempt of honest,
upright men for such a person and the use of such tactics and meth­
ods ! We do not know what to liken it to. We have never seen the
like. In the face of such contemptible actions and despicable meth­
ods, the wanton acts of all other pilfering, plagiarizing charlatans
pale into insignificance.
27
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
“ROSICRUCIAN SOCIETY”
Mr. Lewis presented the text of Dr. Hartmann’s book Among
the Rostcrucians as being descriptive of the actual Rosicrucian Ol­
der, Brotherhood anil Fraternity and as being inner and secret
teachings of the Order. To be sure, this is erroneous, a complete
misrepresentation which carries with it false implications, leading
to confusion and misunderstanding.
The imaginary institution around which the author built his fic­
tion, into which he interwove the story that constitutes the theme
of the book, was described by the author as "This Rosicrucian
Society.”
To make this matter clear and understandable, we turn to pages
29 and 30 of Dr. Hartmann’s book and also refer members of
A. M. O. R. C. to Lesson 46, page 2, Eleventh Grade, where the
exact words of Dr. Hartmann’s book are copied into said lesson, viz:
“Yes,” answered the stranger, as if he had been
reading my thoughts, “you have fallen into the
hands of the Adepts, of whom you have thought so
much and whose acquaintance you often desired to
make, and I will introduce you into our temple and
make you acquainted with some of our Brothers of
the Golden and Rosy Cross."
I scanned his face, and now it seemed to me as
if this man were not a stranger. There was some­
thing so familiar about him as if 1 had known him
for years, and yet I could not find a place for him
in my memory. In vain I tortured my brain to find
out when or where I had met this man, or at least
some other one resembling him in appearance. But
again the lmperator of this Rosicrucian Society, for
such lie proved to be, answered my unspoken thought
by saying, “You are right; we are not strangers, for
I have often been in your presence and stood by
your side, although you did not see me.”
1 he author of An Adventure Among the Rostcrucians was not
umleitaking to describe the Rosicrucian Order proper as we under­
stand it today, or in the sense to which it is commonly referred
at this time, oi at the time when the book in question was written.
Refeience is made to the paragraph of the author’s text beginning
on page 39, ending on page 40, shown in facsimile Reproductions
28
This refers to a
mythical temple, not
to the Order of
the Rosy Cross.
lmperator.
Rosicrucian Society,
not Order, Brother­
hood or Fraternity.
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Nos. 5 and 5A, which we have also heretofore quoted in full, being
the same paragraph eliminated by Mr. Lewis when he compiled
eleventh grade lessons and cunningly omitted said paragraph there­
from. In the omitted paragraph referred to, Dr. Hartmann made
it clear that he was not writing about or undertaking to describe
the Rosicrtcian Ordkr, or the Order of the Golden and Rosy
Cross, which he declared to be a comparatively modern invention
of Andrea; and took the pains to explain that prior to the founding
of what is today known as the Rosicrucian Order, the name “Rosi-
crucian” did not mean a person belonging to a certain organization
by that name, hut it was a generic name, applied to all occultists,
adepts, alchemists or others possessing occult knowledge, or who
understood the secret signification of the Rose and the Cross. Thus
it becomes doubly clear that Dr. Hartmann was dealing with the
term “Rosicrucian” in its generic sense and not to its particular ap­
plication to the Order of the Rosy Cross.
Perhaps it was also because of this very clear exposition by the
author of the difference in the meaning of the term generally and
its special application as the name of a particular order, which also
clearly shows the author’s purpose, that caused Mr. Lewis to omit
from his lessons the particular paragraph referred to.
IMPERATOR
It will be noted from the foregoing quotation that the word
“Tmperator" appears. As a matter of fact, this term is used by
the author as one of his chief characters, through whose mouth he
causes to be spoken the principal part of his story, thereby giving to
the reader the lesson he essays to teach and the doctrine which he
expounds in his book. The title “Imperalor" occurs with fre­
quency throughout the entire book, which raises the question: Was
it from this source that Mr. Lewis learned of the title “Imperator”
and was this his inspiration for conferring that title upon himself
when he fabricated A. M. O. R. C. and launched it in 1915 under
a Rosicrucian appellation, or did he actually learn about “Impera-
tors” from Crowley, master Black Magician? Later we shall see.
We do not desire that anything we say herein shall be construed
as an adverse criticism of the Theosophical Society or the Theo-
sophical teachings so ably presented by Dr. Hartmann in his Ad­
ventures Among the Rosicrncians. The point is that Mr. Lewis
29
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
has deceptively presented such teachings to his members, not as
Theosophical teachings, which they are, but as being higher Rosi-
crucian teachings.
REPRODUCTIONS
To aid the reader and investigator to follow us and to make his
own investigation and comparisons, we reproduce pages 39 (fac­
simile Reproduction No. 5) and 40 (facsimile Reproduction No.
5A) of Dr. Hartmann’s book, to be compared with Mr. Lewis’ Les­
son No. 47, page 2, Eleventh Grade (facsimile Reproduction No.
6). These reproductions show the omitted or deleted paragraph
heretofore quoted and discussed; page 25 of the book (facsimile
Reproduction No. 7), to be compared with Lewis’ Lesson No. 46,
page 1, Eleventh Grade (facsimile Reproduction No. 8), in which
Mr. Lewis eliminates the word “Theosophical,” and page 107 of the
book (facsimile Reproduction No. 9), to be compared with Lewis’
Lesson No. 54, page 1, Eleventh Grade (facsimile Reproduction
No. 10), in which all of the contents of page 107 of the book is
lifted and copied verbatim. These reproductions which follow will
be of real interest to members of A. M. 0. R. C. and to all inter­
ested readers and investigators.
30
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 5
THE THEOSOPHICAL MONASTERY.
ground and pyramids at a distance; it was of a
more gloomy character than the former, probably
on account of the desert places by which it seemed
to be surrounded. The next picture represented a
similar building, situated in a tropical and moun­
tainous country, and the Adept told me it was one
located somewhere in the Cordilleras of South
America. Another one showed a Mohammedan
temple, with minarets and the half-moon upon
their tops. I expressed my surprise to see all the
various religious systems in the world represented
in these Rosicrucian orders; for I had always
believed that the Rosicrucians were an eminently
Christian order.
The Imperator, again reading my thought, cor­
rected my mistake. “The name ‘Rosicrucian Or­
der,’or the ‘Order of the Golden and Rosy Cross,’”
he said, “ is a comparatively modern invention, and
was first used by Johann Valentin Andrece, who
invented the story of the knight Christian Rosen-
creuz, for the same purpose as Cervantes invented
his Ron Quichote de la Mancha; namely, for the
purpose of ridiculing the would-be Adepts, reform­
ers and gold-makers of his age, when he wrote
his celebrated ‘Fama Fraternitatis.’ Before his
Here we reproduce page 39 of Dr. Hartmann’s A m o n g t h e R o s i c r u c i a n s . Beginning
with the first line of the second paragraph of this page and ending at the first para­
graph of page 40 ( R e p r o d u c t i o n 5 A ) , all the material of an entire paragraph was
eliminated from the lessons by Mr. Lewis. All else was included almost v e r b a t i m .
( S e e R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 6 . )
31
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 5A
AMONG THE ROSICRUCIANS.
pamphlet appeared, the name Rosicrucian did not
mean aperson belonging to some certain organized
society by that name, but it was a generic name,
applied to all Occultists, Adepts, Alchemists, or
in fact to anybody who was or pretended to be
in possession of some occult knowledge, and who
was therefore supposed to be acquainted With the
secret signification of the Rose and the Cross;
symbols which have been adopted by the Christian
church, which were, however, not invented by her,
but which were used by all Occultists thousands
of years before Christianity was known. These
symbols do not belong exclusively to the Chris­
tian church, nor can they be monopolized by her.
They are as free as the air for any one who can
grasp their meaning, and unfortunately very few
of your Christians know that meaning; they only
worship the external forms, and know nothing
about the living principle which those forms rep­
resent.”
“Then,” I said, “ a spiritually enlightened man
may become a member of your order, even if he
did not believe in any of the so-called Christian
dogmas?”
To this the Imperator answered: “No man can
Reproduction of page 40 of the Dr. Hartmann book A m o n g t h e R o s i c r u c i a n s , which
' °l,encer Lewis used almost in its entirety for his lessons, with the o n e n o t a b l e e x c e p -
^ lie conveniently omitted practically all of the above page. ( S e e R e p r o d u c t i o n
32
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 6
A
h
O
A
C - Rosicrucian Order
E
LE
V
E
N
TH G
R
A
D
S TEiiPLE LE
C
T
O
R
S P
A
G
E T
A
G
E
G
K
E
E
R F
O
R
TY-S
E
V
E
N
form of an Indian, dressed In shining white robes, with a turban of
pale yellow silk upon his head, stepped out of that door. I im
m
edi­
ately recognized him to be one of the Tibetan adepts w
h
om I had seer,
in ny waking dream
s: Ke, too, seem
ed to recognize m
e, and smilingly
nodded his head, while I bowed reverentially before him
. A fine-look­
ing horse w
as brought forward by som
e attendant, which he m
ounted and
rode away.- “
I w
as speechless from astonishment, but the Imperator smiled and drew
m
e away, quoting a passage of Shakespeare, with a little modification;
for he said, !lThere are m
an
y things in Heaven and Earth which are not
understood by your philosophers."
W
e passed on to another picture,•representing Egyptian scenery, with
a convent in the foreground and pyramids at a distance; it w
as of a
m
ore gloomy character than the former, probably on account of the
desert places by which it seem
ed to be surrounded. The next picture
represented a similar building, situated in a tropical and m
ountainous
country, and the Adept told m
e it w
as one located som
ewhere in the
Cordilleras of South America. Another one showed, a Loham
m
edan temple,
with minarets and the half-moon upon their tops. I expressed m
y sur­
prise to see all the various religious systems in the world re­
presented In these Ro6icrucian orders; for I had always believed that
the Rosicruoians were an eminently Christian order.
"Then," I said, "a spiritually enlightened m
an m
ay. becom
e a m
em
ber of
your order, even if he did not believe in any of the so-called
Christian dogm
as?"
Compare the above with Reproductions Nos. 5 and 5A, pages 3
9 and 40, of Hart­
mann's Among the Rosicrucians. It will be noted that between the paragraph ending
with "Christian order,” page 39, and the paragraph at bottom of page 40, beginning
with "Then,” Mr. Lewis eliminated a long paragraph dealing with the real founder
of the Rosicrucian Fraternity. T ypical L ewistonian trickery. His motto is: " I cut
out the truth when it contradicts your Imperator. Your Imperator can do no wrong;
he is the A. M. 0. R. C.; his word is law. Long live the Imperator, Most Perfect
Master Profundis!"
33
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 7
THE THEOSOPHIOAL MONASTERY. 25
II.
THE .THEOSOPHICAL MONASTERY'.
T FOLLOWED my weird companion, and soon
we regained the path running along tire bed of
the creek, which flowed tranquilly over a bottom
covered with white pebbles, and the shallowness
of the water seemed to indicate that we were not
far from its source. As we approached the mys­
terious mountain the stone walls appeared to rise
perpendicularly before us, and there was no place
visible where any other being but a bird could
have ascended; but as we came still nearer, I
noticed a rent or break in the side of the wall,
opening like a cave or a tunnel. This tunnel we
entered, and I saw that it penetrated the giant wall
and led into another valley beyond. A few steps
brought us to the other end of the tunnel, and an
exclamation of joy and surprise escaped my lips as
I beheld the beautiful sight which was presented
before my eyes.
Before me was a valley surrounded by mountains
Reproduction of page 25 from Among the Rosicrucians, by Dr. Franz Hartmann.
Compare this with Reproduction No. 8
, which is page 1
, Lesson No. +6, Eleventh
t.rade, A. M. O. R. C. lessons. In comparing, note that Dr. Hartmann heads his
Chapter II T he T heosophicai, Monastery and that Mr. Lewis heads his Chapter II
I he Monastery. Why did he omit the descriptive word T heosophicai.? Oh, the
word “Theosophicai” might mislead the members of A. M. O. R. C. It might lead
them to believe that Dr. Hartmann was describing a Theosophicai institution instead
of a “Rosicmcian University.”
34
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 8
A
M
3
R
C - Rosicrucian Order
E
LE
V
E
N
T
H G
R
A
D
E TE
M
rLE LE
C
T
U
R
E P
A
G
E O
N
E
N
U
M
B
E
R FORTY-SIX
Beloved M
em
bers, Greetings !
W
e now continue the story of "An Adventure A
m
on
g
Dr. Franz H
artm
ann, beginning at a point where w
e
week:
the Rosicrucians" by
discontinued last
it*************************
Chapter II
The Monastery
I followed m
y weird companion, and soon w
e regained the path running
along the bed of the creek, which flowed tranquilly over a bottom
covered with white pebbles, and the shallowness of the water seem
ed
to indicate that w
e were not far from its source'. As w
e approached
the mysterious m
ountain the stone walls appeared to rise perpendicular­
ly before us, and there w
as no place visible where any other being
but a bird could have ascended; but as w
e cam
e still nearer, I noticed
a rent or break in the 6ide of the wall, opening like a cave or a tun­
nel. This tunnel w
e entered, and I saw that it penetrated the giant
wall and led into another valley beyond. A few steps brought us to
the other end of the tunnel, and an exclamation of joy and surprise
escaped m
y lips as I beheld the beautiful eight which w
as presented
before m
y eyes.
Before m
e w
as a valley surrounded by m
ountains of evidently inacces­
sible height, and in this valley nature and art seem
ed to have com
­
bined to endow it with an almost superterrestrial beauty. Like a vast
ocean bay it opened before m
y sight, closing dt the distance with a
kind of natural amphitheatre. It w
as covered with short grass apd
planted with maple-trees, and on all sides there were forests and
groves, small lakes and lovely creeks., Immediately in front of m
e,
but still at a considerable distance, rose the vault of a sublime
m
ountain peak high into the blue ether of space, presenting a cavity
with overhanging rocks, looking like the hollow space under a gigantic
wave, having been petrified by som
e m
agic spell. The sides of the
mountain sank in energetically drawn lines towards a lower declivity,
and then again rose abruptly to an imposing height.
In the presence of so m
u
ch sublimity I becam
e dumfoundered. Ky com
­
panion seem
ed to com
prehend m
y feeling; for he, too, stood still and
laughed, as if h
e were pleased to see h
ow full of admiration I w
as.
The stillness which surrounded us would have been complete if it had
not been for the noise of a cataract at a distance to the left, fall­
ing over a steep precipice and appearing like a string of fluid silver
backed by the dark gray rook. The m
onotonous rush of that fall in
contradistinction to the surrounding stillness seem
ed to m
e like the
rush of the river of time in the realm of eternity; another world than
the one to which I had been accustomed seem
ed to have descended upon
m
e; the air seem
ed m
ore pure, the light m
ore ethereal, the grass m
ore
greal than on the other side of the tunnel; here seem
ed to be the val­
ley of peace, the paradise of happiness and content.
JUST THE MONASTERY
It will be seen that Mr. Lewis has copied Dr. Hartmann's text v e r b a t im into his
lesson. However, he eliminated T heosophical from his title. Theosophism is not
Rosicrucianism. The Imperator does permit others to deceive his members; he does
it himself. That is his sole prerogative. So sometimes the Imperator, who can do no
wrong, doeth just a little wrong to deceive many—just to exercise his sole prerogative
and to keep in practice.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 9
TIIE REFECTORY. 1
0
7
loved poetry ; I loved to look at the clouds sail­
ing in the sky, and' to see in them objects of
beauty; I communicated in spirit with the heroes
of the past. But the development of my physi­
cal form could not keep step with the unfold-
ment of the mind. Cold, starvation, and want
hastened its dissolution. After having reached
my eighteenth year, I left my wasted, consump­
tive form, and was kindly received by the
Brothers.”
Her plain and modest tale filled my heart with
pity. “ And was there no one,” I said, “ among
your country people intelligent enough to per­
ceive your genius and to give you support?”
“ They erected a costly monument to my mem­
ory,” she answered, “after my body had suc­
cumbed. A part of the money expended for it
would have procured me the necessities to prolong
my life. Those who knew me while living admired
my poetry and my talents, but they were poor,
like myself. But let that pass. The conditions
under which men live are the effects of previously
acquired Karma. My poverty and suffering were
my gain. I have cause to be well satisfied with
my lot.”
Reproduction of page 1
7 of Dr. Hartmann's book. Compare with Reproduction
No. 1
0 page 1 Lesson 5
4
, Eleventh Grade, A. M. 0. R. C. lessons. It will be seen
that Mr. Lewis has copied this page v e r b a tim into this lesson.
36
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 10
A
M
O
R
C - Rosicrucian Order
E
LE
V
E
N
T
H G
R
A
D
E T
E
M
P
L
E L
E
C
T
U
R
E P
A
G
E O
N
E
N
U
M
B
E
R FIFTY-FO
U
R
Beloved M
em
bers, Greetings!
W
e now continue the story of "An Adventure A
m
ong the Roeicrucians" by
D
r. Franz H
artm
ann, beginning at a point where w
e discontinued last
week:
******************************
Chapter III
The Refectory.
I had for a long time observed the features of this other Lady-Adept;
and it seem
ed to m
e as if I had seen her som
ewhere, perhaps in m
y
dream
s. Yes, I rem
em
ber that w
hen I w
a
B a m
ere ohild I once had a
vision, while in a state between sleeping and waking, w
hen it seem
ed
to m
e as if an angel or a superterrestrial being, clad in white and
holding a White Lily in her hand, were floating in the air over m
y
head, extending the lily towards m
e. H
o
w often had I prayed in ra
y
heart to see that beautiful form again; and now
, if I did not mistake,
this lady w
as the form I had seen in m
y dream
.
She w
as of exceeding great beauty; her long, black, waving hair formed
a strong contrast to her plain, white, and flowing robe, covering her
form with graceful folds. Her teint w
as pale and delicate, her pro­
file w
as pure Greek; her dark eyes seem
ed to penetrate to the inner­
m
ost centre of m
y soul, and to kindle there a fire of pure love and
admiration without any admixture of the animal element.
"M
y life," said Helen, “ w
as one of little importance. I w
as born at
St. Petersburg, and m
y father w
as an officer in the imperial arm
y.
H
e died while I w
as very young, and left his family in great poverty.
Besides the com
pany of m
y mother, m
y relatives, and a teacher, there
w
as nothing to attract m
e (to earth. M
y m
ind unfolded and revelled
in superterre.strlai .o v s l i I loved to look at the clouds sailing in the
slcy^ and Ifb see in them objects of beauty; I communicated in spirit
with the heroes of the past. But the development of my...physical form
could not keep step with the unfoldment of the m
ind. Cold, starvation,
and -w
an
t hastened its dissolution. After having reached m
y eighteenth
year, I left m
y wasted, consumptive form, and was kindly received by
the Brothers."
Her plain and m
odest tale filled m
y heart with pity. "And w
as there
n
o one," I said, "am
ong your country people intelligent enough to per­
ceive your genius and to give you support?"
"They erected a costly m
on
u
m
en
t to m
y m
em
ory," she answered, "after
m
y body had succum
bed, a part of the m
oney expended for it would
have procured m
e the necessities to prolong m
y life. Those w
ho knew
m
e while living admired m
y poetry and m
y talents, but they were poor
like myself. B
ut let that pass. The conditions under which m
en live
are the effects of previously acquired K
atm
a. M
y poverty and suffer­
ing w
e're m
y gain. I have cause to be well satisfied with m
y lot."
First page of Lesson 54, Eleventh Grade, A. M. O. R. C. Compare with Repro­
duction No. 9, taken verbatim from pages 105, 106 and 107, Among the Rosicrucians,
by Franz Hartmann. The above reproduction covers practically two and one-half
pages of the Hartmann book. The foregoing reproductions illustrate the manner in
which Lewis made the secret teachings of A. M. O. R. C. out of well-known pub­
lished books.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
T H E CLOUD U PO N T H E SA N C T U A R Y
Letters by Von Eckartshausen
A Great Mystic
Another extensive use of published material made by Mr. Lewis
was the copying into his Eleventh Grade Lessons, compiled tor
M. O. R. C\, of six letters, written by Karl von Eckartshausen,
a great mystic. The letters were translated by Isabelle de Steiger
and published in a book under the title of The Cloud Upon the
Sanctuary, with an extensive and well-considered introduction by
Arthur Edward Waite. This book enjoyed an extensive sale and is
available to all who care to purchase it. As usual, Mr. Lewis not
only used, but he also misused and distorted, the contents of this
book. He falsely declared the author of these letters to be a “Ro-
sicrucian Master” and wrongfully claimed his mystic doctrines to
be Rosicrucian teachings.
MYSTICISM IS NOT ROSICRUCIAN ISM
We would not deny that von Eckartshausen was a true mystic.
Indeed, he was a great one. However, he was not a Rosicrucian.
His basic idea was a purely mystical one. He had in mind the UK-
c o m in g o f ONENESS w it h G od as differentiated from that of the
Rosicrucian basic idea, which is for man to become individualized
and thus to personify God in his own person and individuality as
indicated by the saying of the Great Master: “ Y e a r e t h e t k m -
I’ LES OF THE I.IVING G od.” Therefore, instead of seeking oneness
with God, the Rosicrucian’s endeavor is to become like God— a
god— an individualized being like unto his Maker. The difference
is a vast one and, irrespective of the sublimity of von Eckartshau­
sen s teachings, it is a fraud upon any student to lead him to believe
that by following the said mystical teachings he may or will become
a Rosicrucian.
AN UNUSUAL DISTORTION OF FACTS
Before copying von Eckartshausen’s letters from the published
book, 7he Clottd Upon the Sanctuaryt using and misusing all of
them in his lessons and as an introduction to their use, in the 89th
Lesson, page 3, of the Eleventh Grade, Mr. Lewis tells his mem­
bers that:
38
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
♦
I
“Now we are at a point where some of the rarest
of tlie writings and thoughts of the most highly
recognized Rosicrucian Masters of the past are go­
ing to aid us in our ascent up the mountain and in
our highest stages of development and purpose.
Among these great men or great Masters was one
whom 1 want to introduce to you now. His name
was von Eckartshausen. If you will delve very
deeply into genuine mystical Rosicrucian literature,
you are sure to find his name among the great Mas­
ters, not of the earliest period, but of the middle
period. Many eminent writers of the mystical lit­
erature have referred to him or quoted him, and
yet his complete writings are extremely difficult to
find anywhere, although many years ago Mr. Ar­
thur Waite issued a small edition of a translation
of this man’s writings made by Isabel de Steiger.
This translation is probably one of the best of any
that was ever privately made, and 1 am going to
quote from it; ‘von Eckartshausen wrote a very
great deal. Much of his writings were simple ex­
planations of the laws and principles contained in
tlie Rosicrucian studies. Some few of his manu­
scripts were intended for reading by those who had
not yet started on the path, but who were highly
evolved intellectually as students of comparative re­
ligions and philosophy . . .’ ”
MISERABLE MISREPRESENTATION
Book Not Private
The book The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary was not “privately
made.” It was never considered secret or private. It was first
published in a magazine and afterward republished and sold in
book form. Members of A. M. O. R. C. familiar with the lessons
will know that Mr. Lewis has had much to say about “mysterious,
ancient manuscripts,” written in weird language, strange hiero­
glyphics and baffling signs, which he had to translate and decode
to secure the lessons and secret work of A. M. O. R. C. When Mr.
Lewis intends to steal the works and misuse the writings of others,
he always anticipates his acts by letting loose a barrage of misrep­
resentations and camouflaged falsehoods to form a protective smoke
screen to hide his unholy practices. It is a favorite trick of his with
59
Not a Rosicrucian
Master.
A great mystic,
not a Master.
N ame not to be
found in Rosicrucian
literature.
Mystical ? Yes.
Italics ours.
Utterly false.
Publicly sold to all.
Easy to obtain.
Was not known as a
Rosicrucian.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
which— ;vs well as other similar methods equally as disreputable
and despicable—he has misled and deceived thousands.
To prove that Mr. Lewis’ statement that the de Steiger transla­
tion was "privately made" is absolutely false, we need only to quote
from the Introduction to said book written by Waite, viz:
Religious doctrines,
not Rosicrucian
teachings.
Italics ours.
Christian mystical
religion, not
Rosicrucianism.
“To all who look within the body of religious
doctrine for the true principle of life which ener­
gizes the whole organism, this little book carries
with it a message of great meaning. The present
translation has offered it for the first time to Eng­
lish readers, and it enters now upon a further phase
of existence. It appeared originally in the
pages of “The Unknown W orld,” a magazine de­
voted to the fuller understanding of Christian mys­
tical religion, and it was afterwards republished in
separate form, of which there were two issues.” (In­
troduction, page viii.)
VON ECKARTSHAUSEN WAS NOT A
ROSICRUCIAN— HE WAS A MYSTIC
Mr. Waite looked after the publication and wrote the Introduc­
tion to this book, from which Mr. Lewis obtained all of his infor­
mation. Mr. Lewis knew the facts as given to him by Waite, so
carefully detailed and so fully set forth in the introduction. Did
Mr. Lewis give these plain facts to his members? No, indeed. He
willfully and woefully garbled and misrepresented the facts to his
members and also misrepresented and betrayed von Eckartshausen
as he did Dr. Hartmann.
Mr. Waite was a great research worker into mysticism, as well
as Rosicrucian literature, being himself somewhat of a mystic. If
von Eckartshausen had been a Rosicrucian, it is certain that Waite
should know, and he does not classify him as a Rosicrucian, but as a
'mystic. We have made a careful search, and we cannot find any
writer, recognized as an authority or otherwise, who lists or classi­
fies von Eckartshausen as a Rosicrucian. On the other hand, we
find that all authorities list him as a mystic. We quote Mr. Waite
further:
Perhaps the most interesting thing that I can
Mystic, not a say at the beginning concerning Eckartshausen is
Rosicrucian. that he was related to that group of mystics of which
40
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Lavater was so important a figure, the Baron Kirch-
berger an accomplished and engaging recorder, and
Louis Claude de Saint-Martin a correspondent in
France and an acknowledged source of learning.”
(Introduction, page ix.)
The mystical teachings of Eckartshausen can be given in a single
paragraph, according to Waite, as follows:
“W e must take the key which Eckartshausen him­
self offers, namely, that there is within all of us a
dormant faculty, the awakening of which gives en­
trance, as it develops, into a new world of conscious­
ness, and this is one of the initial stages of that state
which he, in common with all other mystics, terms
union with the Divine. In that union, outside all
formal sects, all orthodox bonds of fellowship and
veils and webs of symbolism, we shall form, or do
form actually, a great congregation—the first fruits
of immortality; and in virtue of the solidarity of
humanity, and in virtue of the great doctrine of the
communication of all things holy with all that seeks
for holiness, the above and the below, this congrega­
tion is, in very truth— for I think that so much we
can realize even in the normal understanding—the
spirit of the visible Church of faith, aspiration and
struggle, the Church Triumphant overdwelling the
Church Militant, and the channel through which
the graces and benedictions of the Holy and Glori­
ous Zion are administered to the Zion which is on
earth.”— (Introduction, page xv.)
DID THIS GREAT MYSTIC BELONG TO ANY
SECRET ORGANIZATION?
It is not even certain that Eckartshausen actually belonged to
any secret organization. After all his investigation, Mr. Waite
was uncertain. Note what he says :
“I think that the testimony borne by Eckarts­
hausen may be regarded under one of three aspects,
but that two of them must be set aside in the end.
Italics ours. There is the possibility—but here I have indicated
already my personal doubt of this view—that he had
been united with one of those secret fraternities of
Mystics.
Italics ours.
41
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
which there were so many at his period; and as some
among such institutions were of a certain antiquity,
there is no insuperable difficulty in supposing (a)
that the particular association could have been an
old one after its own kind, or (b) that it put for­
ward a claim corresponding to that which would be
made by a Secret Church.” — {Introduction,
page xvii.)
VON ECKARTSHAUSEN WAS NOT A ROSICRUCIAN
COUNCILLOR
Another Willful Misrepresentation . .
It appears in Waite’s introduction to the letters of von Eckarts-
hausen that he had the title “Aulic Councillor” (aulic, pertaining
to a court or meaning courtly). Mr. Lewis seized upon this fact
as an excuse to misrepresent to his members that this great mystic,
who never belonged to the Rosicrucian Fraternity, was a member
of a Rosicrucian Council, Council of Editors. It was a wanton and
deliberate deception without excuse or justification. On page 4 of
Lesson 89, Eleventh Grade A. M. O. R. C. Lessons, we find Mr.
Lewis, in his further discourse of misrepresentation concerning von
Eckartshausen, telling his members that:
“He lived during the latter part of the eighteenth
century and passed through transition on May 13,
1813. He was fortunately one of the group of
higher students which became what we might call
Italics ours. a foundation board of Rosicrucian editors, which
was officially' called a Council of the Rosicrucians
or a Board of Councillors. And it is strange to
note that the title Councillor was given to von Eck­
artshausen for this reason and for other reasons."
To demonstrate beyond all question that the statement by Mr.
Lewis, to which we added our italics, is false— absolutely and will­
fully false, we again quote from Mr. Waite’s said Introduction
and reproduce the page of the Introduction (being facsimile Re­
production No. 11), from which we quote. Mr. Waite accounts
for the way in which he received the title of Aulic Councillor— and
remember that he was not a Rosicrucian Councillor or a member
of tbe Fraternity. Mr. Waite says:
His (Eckartshausen s) first education was re-
42
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
ceiveil at the college of Munich, and he proceeded
afterwards to Ingolstadt for the study of philosophy
and law, which he pursued with marked success.
Italics ours. The university course at an end, his father procured
him the title of Aulic Councillor; and in 1780 he
was appointed censor of the library at Munich.”—
(Introduction, page xii.) See facsimile Reproduc­
tion No. 1 1 .
Is there no end to Mr. Lewis’ misrepresentations and false­
hoods? Indeed, there seems to be none and no limit to his endless
variety of deception. Perhaps the members of A. M. O. R. C. who
have been so willfully deceived and defrauded will put a stop to it.
THE TEACHINGS OF A MYSTIC
Made into A. M. O. R. C. Lessons and Cunningly Given
as Rosicrucian Teachings
Thus, with a cunning introduction of falsehood and deceit, Mr.
Lewis absorbed all of the letters of von Eckartshausen, the Chris­
tian mystic, and made them into alleged and dubious Rosicrucian
lessons with the utterly false representation that they were “the
rarest of writings . . . of the most highly recognized Rosicrucian
Masters of the past," to aid members of A. M. O. R. C. in their
ascent up the mountain in the highest stages of development.
Lesson 90, Eleventh Grade, page 1, starts with page 1 of The
Cloud Upon the Sanctuary, and ends on page 10 of the same, but
in some places the transcription is wholly misleading, distorted and
changed, clearly with a premeditated and designing purpose. Thus
we quote first from page 7 of the book:
“We must, therefore, have a sensorium fitted for such com­
munication, an organized and spiritual sensorium, a spiritual
and interior faculty able to receive this light; but it is closed—
as I have said— to most men by the incrustation of the senses.
“Such an interior organ is the intuitive sense of the tran­
scendental world, and until this intuitive sense is effective in
us, we can have no certainty of more lofty truths. This or­
ganism has been naturally inactive since the Fall, which rele­
gated man to the w'orld of physical sense. The gross matter
which envelops the interior sensorium is a film which veils the
internal eye and prevents the exterior eye from seeing into
43
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
spiritual realms. Phis same matter muffles oui internal heal­
ing, so that we are deaf to the sounds of the metaphysical
worlds; it so paralyzes our spiritual speech that we can
scarcely stammer words of sacred import, words which we
pronounced formerly, and by virtue of which we held au­
thority over the elements and external nature.'
This is made to read in Lesson No. 90, page 4, Eleventh Grade:
“Thus one ought to have a sensorium fitted for this com­
munication, an organized spiritual sensorium, a spiritual and
interior faculty able to receive this light; but it is closed to
most men by their senses. This interior organ is the intuitive
sense of the transcendental world, and until this intuitive sense
is effective in us, we can have no certainty of more lofty truths.
“This organism is naturally inactive since the Fall, which
degraded man to the world of physical sense alone. The gross
matter which envelops this interior sensorium is a film which
veils the internal eye and, therefore, prevents the exterior eye
from seeing into spiritual realms. This same matter muffles
our internal hearing, so that we are deaf to the sounds of the
metaphysical world; it so paralyzes our spiritual speech that
we can scarcely stammer words of sacred import, words we
fully pronounced once, and by virtue of which we held au­
thority over the elements and the external world.”
VON ECKARTSHAUSEN’S DOCTRINES NOT
ROSICRUCIAN PHILOSOPHY
We repeat, for emphasis, that von Eckartshausen’s doctrines,
beautiful and profound as they may be, are not in any sense Rosi-
crucian philosophy. He was a great mystic— one of the greatest
of that century which gave birth to so many spiritually minded
men but he was not a member, an Initiate of the Rosy Cross Or­
der, and did not teach Rosicrucian philosophy or doctrines.
To the end that there may be no remaining doubt on this sub­
ject, we quote from pages 70, 71 and 74 of The Cloud Upon the
Sanctuary, where we find the proof that von Eckartshausen had in
mind a Spiritual Church as differentiated from the formal orthodox
church or any and all secret orders or fraternities, because he tells
us, after speaking of the Saviour Jesus Christ, that:
And here begin the Sacerdotal Mysteries of the
44
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Italics ours.
Not Rosicrucian
philosophy.
Inner church not
the Rosicrucian
Fraternity.
Elect and of the Inner Church.
“The Royal and Priestly Science is that of Re­
generation, or the science of the reunion of fallen
man zvi/h God. It is called Royal Science, because
it leads man to power and the dominion over na­
ture. It is called Sacerdotal, because it sanctifies
and brings all to perfection, spreading grace and
benefits everywhere.
“This science owes its immediate origin to the
verbal revelation of G od; it was always the Science
of the Inner Church of Prophets and of Saints; and
it recognized no other High Priest but Jesus Christ,
the Lord.
“Rut the rebuilding of the world’s edifice in gen­
eral was not the only aim of redemption. Man was
the principal object in the shedding of Christ’s
blood; to procure for him, even in this material
sphere, the highest possible perfection by the ameli­
oration of his being, Jesus Christ submitted to in­
finite suffering.
“He is the Saviour of the world and of man.
The object or cause of His incarnation was to res­
cue us from sin, misery and death.
Italics ours. "Jesus Christ has delivered us from all evil by
His flesh, which He sacrificed, and by His blood,
which He shed for us.”
That we may not be misunderstood, we say again that we find
no fault with the doctrines and teachings of the Mystic Church.
Our point is that they are not Rosicrucian doctrines and teachings,
and that for Mr. Lewis to give them to his members as such is a
fraud---AN OUTRAGEOUS IMPOSITION and AN OUTRIGHT SWINDLE
in every sense and meaning of those ugly terms.
REPRODUCTIONS MADE HEREIN
For those who do not have a copy of The Cloud Upon the Sanc­
tuary and A. M. O. R. C. Eleventh Grade Lessons, we have repro­
duced herein two pages of the book and corresponding pages of
said lessons for comparison, being facsimile Reproductions Nos.
12, 13, 14 and 15, to which we invite and direct the attention of the
reader and all investigators.
Those who have both the book and the lessons will find it inter-
45
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
esting to compare them carefully and to note that Mr. Lewis cop­
ied all of the Eckartshausen letters into the A. M. O. R. C. “higher
teachings,” except when it suited his purpose and served his end
to change and mutilate them.
If you care to make the comparisons, you will find that—
Lesson 91, A. M. 0. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 10
and ends on page 20 of the book. In this section material changes
have been made, apparently to suit a special purpose.
Lesson 92, A. M. 0 . R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page
20 and ends on page 29 of the book.
Lesson 93, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 30
and ends on page 40 of the book. The changes made are so many
and varied that we suggest the true seeker and investigator obtain
a copy of the book and compare notes.
Lesson 94, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 41
and ends on page 50 of the book.
Lesson 95, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 50
and ends on page 60 of the book.
Lesson 96, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 61
and ends on page 68 of the book.
Lesson 97, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 68
and ends on page 76 of the book.
Lesson 98, A. M. O. R. C., Eleventh Grade, starts with page 77
of The Cloud l pon the Sanctuary and ends the series of lessons
taken directly from von Eckartshausen’s letters or teachings.
46
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 1
1
xii The Clottd upon the Sanctuary
college of Munich, and he proceeded afterwards to
Ingolstadt for the study of philosophy and law,'
which he pursued with marked success. The univer­
sity course at an end, his father procured him the title
of Aulic Councillor : and in 1780 he was appointed
censor of the library at Munich. This, in spite of
the rectitude and goodness which characterised him,
made him many enemies, but the favour of the
Elector Karl Theodore sustained him against all
combinations. In 178 4 he was nominated Keeper of
the Archives of the Electoral House, an appointment
conferred, it is said, through a desire of the Elector to
retain him near his person.
Eckartshausen published in all some sixty-nine
works, embracing many classes of literature—the
drama, politics, religion, history, art-criticism, general
science, and, in particular, several contributions of
varied merit to mystic and occult science. As indi­
cated already, the majority of these are now forgotten,
though some of his plays seem to have been success­
ful in their day. The Prejudice of Birth in particular
—his first printed drama—is described as abounding
in felicitous situations and human interest. He
attempted even a comedy, and this also received
considerable approbation. One only of his books,
under the title of God is Purest Love, commanded
great and enduring popularity. Sixty editions are
said to have been issued in Germany, and it was
translated into most languages of Europe, as well as
into Church Latin. It is a small cbllection of Catholic
prayers and meditations on the love of God, the fear
of God, the elevation of man’s sentiments towards
his Creator, the knowledge of the eternal, &c. There
AN AULIC COUNCILLOR
Mr. Waite tells us in his introduction to T h e C lo u d U p o n th e S a n c tu a r y that von
Eckartshausen was an Aulic Councillor and how his appointment was obtained. It
bears no relation to Rosicrucian Councils. Compare the marked statements with Mr.
Lewis' statement on page +, Lesson 89, Eleventh Grade, which we have quoted. Mr.
Lewis makes a Rosicrucian Councillor out of an Aulic Councillor. Miserable mis­
representation !
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 12
THE CLOUD
UPON THE SANCTUARY
LETTER I
There is no age more remarkable to the quiet
observer than our own. Everywhere there is a
fermentation in the mind, as in the heart of man ;
everywhere there is a battle between light and
darkness, between exploded thought and living ideas,
between powerless wills and living active force; in
fine, everywhere there is war between animal man
and growing spiritual man.
It is said that we live in the age of light, but it
would be truer to say that we are living in that of
twilight; here and there a luminous ray pierces the
mist of darkness, but does not light to full clearness
either our reason or our heart. Men are not of one
mind, scientists dispute, and where there is discord,
truth is not yet apprehended.
The most important objects for humanity are
still undetermined. No one is agreed either on
i
2
Reproduction of a part of Letter I and page 2, T h e C lo u d U p o n th e S a n c tu a r y , a
translation of von Eckartshausen’s book, which Mr. Lewis used in its entirety for
Eleventh Grade lessons. Compare this page with Reproduction No. 1
3 and see where
he uses this material in Lesson 90 of the Eleventh Grade of the A. M. O. R. C.
Secret T eachings.
48
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 13
A
M
O
R
C - Rosicrucian Order
E
LE
V
E
N
TH G
R
A
D
E T
E
M
P
L
E L
E
C
T
U
R
E PA
G
E O
N
E
N
U
M
B
E
R
-N
IN
E
TY
Beloved M
em
bers, Greetings!
Today I will start reading to you and com
m
enting upon the interesting
"letters" written by Von Eckartshausen as mentioned in m
y previous
talk with you. Read these letters carefully, then sit and meditate
upon them but keep u
p the last experiments w
e had; keep up the exer­
cises given in the last two or three lectures if it is possible and
convenient for you to do so.
Letter 1
There is no age m
ore remarkable to the quiet observer than our ow
n
.
Everywhere there is a fermentation in the m
inds of m
en; everywhere
there is a battle between light and darkness, between exploded thought
and living ideas, between powerless wills and living active force; in
short everywhere is there w
ar between animal m
an and growing spiritual
m
an
.
It is said that w
e live in an age of light, but it would be truer to
say that w
e are living in an age of twilight; here and there a lum
inous
ray pierces through the mists of darkness, but does not light to full
clearness either our reason or our hearts. M
en are not of one m
ind;
scientists dispute, and where there is discord, truth is not yet ap­
prehended.
The m
ost important objects for humanity are still undetermined. N
o
one is agreed either on the principle or rationality or on the prin­
ciple of morality, or on the cause of the will. This proves that
though w
e are swelling in an age of light, w
e do not well understand
w
hat emanates from our hearts—and w
hat from our heads. Probably w
e
should have this information m
u
ch sooner if w
e did not imagine that
w
e have the light of knowledge already in our hands, or if w
e would
cast a look on our weakness, and recognise that w
e require a m
ore
brilliant illumination. W
e live in the tim
e of idolatry of the intel­
lect, w
e place a com
m
on torchlight upon the altar and w
e loudly pro­
claim the aurora, that now daylight i3 really about to appear, and
that the world is emerging m
ore and m
ore out of obscurity into the
full day of perfection, through the arts, sciences, cultured taste,
and even from a purer understanding of religion.
Poor mankind! To w
hat standpoint have you raised the happiness of
m
an
? H
as there ever been an age which has counted so m
an
y victims of
humanity as the present? H
as there ever been an age in which im
­
morality and egotism have been greater or m
ore dominant than in this
one? The tree is kn
ow
n by its fruits. M
ad m
en.' With your imaginary
natural reason, from whence have you the light by which you are so
willing to enlighten others? Are not all your ideas borrowed from
your senses which do not give you the reality but merely its pheno­
m
en
a? Is it not true that in time and space all knowledge is but re­
lative? Is it not true that all which w
e call reality is but relative,
for absolute truth is not to be found in the oh'eftom
enal world. Thus
your natural reason does not possess its true essence, but only the
appearance of truth and light; and the m
ore this appearance increases
and.-Spreads, the m
ore the essence of light inwardly fades, and the m
a
n
A. M. O. R. C. SECRET TEACHINGS
Compare with Reproduction No. 12. The above reproduction comprised about three
pages of the letters of von Eckartshausen, taken v e r b a tim from the published hook T h e
C lo u d U p o n th e S a n c tu a r y .
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 14
LETTER IV
As infinity in numbers loses itself in the unit which
is their basis, and as the innumerable rays of a circle
are united in a single centre, so it is also with the
Mysteries; their hieroglyphics and infinitude of
emblems have the object of exemplifying but one
single truth. He who knows this has found the key
to understand everything, and all at once.
There is but one God, but one truth, and one way
which leads to this grand Truth. There is but one
means of finding it.
He who has discovered this way possesses every­
thing therein; all .wisdom in one book alone, all
strength in one force, every beauty in a single object,
all riches in one treasure only, every happiness in one
perfect felicity. And the sum of all these perfections
is Jesus Christ, Who was crucifiedand.Who rose again.
Now, this great fact, expressed thus, is, it is true,
only an object of faith, but it can become also one of
experimental knowledge, as soon as we are instructed
how Jesus Christ can be or become all this.
This great mystery was always an object of instruc­
tion in the Secret School of the invisible and interior
41
Reproduction of part of Letter IV of von Eckartshausen, being page 41 of The C lo u d
u p o n th e S a n c tu a r y , copied •v e rb a tim in A. M. 0. R. C. Lesson 94, Eleventh Grade, by
the Imperator. (S e e R e p r o d u c tio n N o . 1 5 .)
50
V
V [ T [ I B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. IS
A
..O
R
C - Rosiorucian Order
-LEVEliTE C
-ilA
D
E T
E
/
.R
L
E L
E
C
T
U
R
E
N
U
l.B
E
R N
IN
E
TY-FO
U
R
P
A
G
E O
N
E
Beloved M
em
bers, Greetir.gB !
V
7
e will now continue the letters of Von EckaTtshausen, beginning at a
point where ve discontinued last week.
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
LE
TTE
R IV
As i n f in it y in numoers loses i t s e l f in the unit, and as the innumer­
able rays of a c irc le are united in one single centre only, i t is
likewise with the Mysteries; their hieroglyphics and in fin ite number
of emblems have the object of exemplifying but one single truth. Ke
who knows this has found the key to understand everything a l l at once.
There is but one G
od, but one truth, and one w
ay which leads to this
grand Truth. There is but one m
eans of finding it.
H
e w
ho has found this w
ay possesses everything in its possession:
all wisdom in one book alone, all strength in one force, every beauty
in one single object, all riches in one treasure only, every happiness
in one perfect felicity. A
nd the B
u
r
n of all these perfections is
Jesus Christ, w
h
o w
as crucified and w
h
o lived again. Kow
, this great
truth, expressed thus, is, it is true, only an object of faith, but
it can becom
e also one of experimental knowledge, as soon as w
e are
instructed h
owJesus Christ can be or becom
e all this.
This grcat't-.ystery w
as always an object of instruction in the Secret
School of the invisible and interior Church; this great knowledge w
as
understood in the earliest days of ihristianity under the n
am
e of
Disciollna Arcana From this secret school are derived all the rites
and ceremonies extant in the Cuter Church. Eut the spirit of these
grand and simple verities w
as withdrawn into the Interior, and in our
day it is entirely lost as to the exterior.
It has been prophesied long ago, dear brothers, that all which is
hidden shall be'revealed in these latter days; but it has also been
predicted that m
an
y false prophets will arise, and the faithful are
warned not-to believe every spirit, but to prove them if they really
com
e from G
od, I John iv. 5. The apostle himself explains how this
truth is ascertained. H
e says, "Hereby know ye the Spirit of G
od,
every spirit which confesseth that Jesus Christ is com
e in the flesh
is of G
od, and every spirit which confesseth not is not of God." That
is to say, the spirit w
ho separates in K
im the Divine and h
u
m
an is
not from God.
W
e confess that Jesus Christ is com
e ir. the flesh and hence the spirit
of truth speaks by us. E
ut the mystery that Jesus Christ is com
e yi
the flesh is of wide extent and great depth, and in it is contained
the knowledge of the divine-human, and it is this knowledge that w
e
are choosing to-day as object for our instruction.
As w
e are not speaking' to neophytes in matters of faith, it will be
m
u
ch easier for you, dear brothers, to receive the sublime truths w
e
The above reproduction comprises about three pages of the published book contain
ng the letters of von Eckartshausen.
51
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
By Dr. Richard Maurice Bucke
We present for the further consideration of interested students,
investigators and members of A. M. O. R. C. another instance
where Mr. Lewis with his usual method (hereinbefore dealt with)
has made liberal use of the material of a comparatively recently
published book to compile his secret higher Rosicrucian lessons and
teachings.
We do not appear as a critic of Dr. Bucke or of his views or the
ideas that he has presented to the world in Cosmic Consciousness.
Let us assume that Dr. Bucke’s Cosmic Consciousness is a book that
is of interest to all students of the occult; it is a book easily pro­
curable at a moderate price. Such being the case, if Mr. Lewis
desired that his higher grade— his Eleventh Grade— students
should study the material presented by Dr. Bucke on the subject
of cosmic consciousness, why did he not advise them to purchase a
copy of Dr. Bucke’s book, instead of lifting the material from the
published book and presenting it to them under the false represen­
tation, expressed or implied, or with the crafty implication that the
“extracts” from the writings of R. M. Bucke “were high, secret Ro-
sicrucian teachings”? The answer is, as usual, that it is more
profitable to Mr. Lewis to copy the material into his lessons and to
sell it to his members.
PAUL TYNER AND IIIS ATTAINM ENT
OF COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
Dr. Bucke s description of the experience of Paul Tyner in attain­
ing cosmic consciousness in Chapter XXXIV, beginning at page 291
of Cosmic Consciousness, is of real interest to all students. It will
be of unusual interest, and perhaps it will be startling information
to members of A. M. O. R. C. who are seeking the W ay to the
Rosy Cross to be advised—to know that Paul Tyner was one of
the Councillors and co-workers with Freeman B. Dowd in T iie
Ti'-Mt i.e or i he Rosy Cross, Dowd being the second Grand Mas-
tei of the Randolph Foundation of the Authentic Rosicrucian
Brotherhood and Rose Cross Order in America.
JESUS THE CHRIST '
Inasmuch as Jesus, who attained Christhood, was the Greatest
52
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Master of While Magic, it is strange, indeed, that Mr. Lewis
should use Bucke’s commentaries on Jesus in his lessons, in view of
his (Mr. Lewis’) association and connection with the most notori­
ous Black Magician of this age, whom he recognizes and refers to
as his Secret Chief. (See Lewis’ letter of February 16, 1934—
facsimile Reproduction No. 32.)
LET A. M. O. R. C. MEMBERS COMPARE
We regret that we do not have more space to devote to this book
and to treat it and the lessons taken from it by Mr. Lewis as we
have the books Among the Rosicrucians and The Cloud Upon the
Sanctuary. All A. M. O. R. C. members should, for their own sat­
isfaction, procure a copy of Cosmic Consciousness by Bucke and
compare it, beginning at page 81, with their Eleventh Grade les­
sons, Lesson No. 102. For the convenience of those who do not
have the book or the lessons, we reproduce herein, page 81, of
Bucke’s Cosmic Consciousness, and page 1 of Lesson 102 of the
Eleventh Grade, as fabricated by Mr. Lewis, for comparison, see
facsimile Reproductions Nos. 16 and 17.
I
I
58
»
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 16
C h apter 2.
Jesus the Christ.
Balzac says [5 : 143] that Jesus was a Specialist— that is, that he had
Cosmic Consciousness. As Balzac was himself undoubtedly illumined, he
would be high, if not absolute, authority upon the point. Paul, as soon as
his own eyes were opened, recognized Jesus as belonging to a superior spir­
itual order— that is, as having the Cosmic Sense. But let us not take any
one’s word, but try and see for ourselves what reasons there are for including
this man in the list of those having Cosmic Consciousness.
I.
Jesus was born B. C. 4 [80], and would be, according to this authority,
thirty-four or thirty-five years old when he began to teach, so would have
been at least thirty-three at the time of illumination—supposing him a case.
Other writers make him older. Sutherland [143a : 140] says: “ The
death of Jesus occurred in the year 35.” This would make him thirty-nine
at his death, thirty-six or thirty-eight when he began to teach (the former, if
he taught three years, as John says; the latter, if he taught only one year, as
the synoptics tell us), and, say, thirty-five or thirty-six at illumination.*
All goes to show that at about the age specified a marked change took
*T h e Review o f Reviews for January, 1897, sums up the evidence bearing on the point as
follows :
•‘ One of the most eminent of living authorities on the life of Christ, Dr. Cunningham Geikie,
writes in the Homiletic Review on the various attempts to fix the exact date of the birth of the Mes­
siah.
" I t is clear that the received chronology of the Abbot Dyonisius the Dwarf, which dates from the
first half of the sixth century, must have begun several years too late in fixing the birth of Christ as
having taken place in the 754th year of Rome, since it is known that Herod died in 750, and Jesus
must have been born while Herod was still reigning. Dr. Geikie points out other fundamental errors
in the calculations of the Abbot Dyonisius,
"D yonisius had based his calculations on the mention by St. Luke that John the Baptist, who
was a little older than Jesus, began his public work in the fifteenth year of Tiberius, and that Jesus
was ' about thirty years old ‘ when he began to teach (Luke iii : 1-23). This fifteenth year of Tiberius
would be perhaps 782 or 783, and thirty deducted from this would give 752 or 753, to the latter of
which Dionysius added a year, on the supposition that Luke’s expression, -about thirty years/ re­
quired him to add a year. But the vague *about’ was a weak ground on which to go, and, besides,
the reign of Tiberius may be reckoned from his association in the government with Augustus, and thus
from 765 instead of from 767. The texts I have quoted from St. Luke cannot, therefore, be used to
Reproduction of page 8
1 of Bucke’s C o s m ic C o n s c io u s n e s s . In using this material
for his lessons, Mr. Lewis eliminated all the important notes, as will be seen by com­
paring the above with Reproduction No. 17, with A. M. O. R. C. Secret Lesson 102
of the Eleventh Grade. Wonderfully, deceptively secret!
54
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 17
A
K
O
R
C - Rosicrucian Older
E
LE
V
E
N
TH G
R
A
D
E T
E
M
P
L
E L
E
C
T
U
R
E P
A
G
E O
N
E
N
U
M
B
E
R O
N
E H
U
N
D
R
E
DA
N
D T
’.V
O
Beloved M
em
bers, Greetings !
W
e will now proceed with the extracts from the writings of M
r. R
.M
.
Bucke. * • • * * * ♦ * * « • * *
Jesus the Christ
Balzac says that Jesus w
as a Specialist—that is, that he had Cosm
ic
Consciousness. As Balzac v;as himself undoubtedly illumined, he w
ould
be high, if not absolute, authority upon the point. Paul, as soon as
his ow
n eyes w
ere opened,- recognized Jesus as belonging to a superior
spiritual order—that is, as having the C
osm
ic Sense. But let us not
take any one's w
ord, but try and see for ourselves w
hat reasons there
are for including this m
a
n in the list of those having Cosm
ic Conscious­
ness.
Jesus w
as born B.C. 4, and would be, according to this authority,
thirty-four or thirty-five years old w
h
en he began to teach, so would
have been at least thirty-three at the tim
e of illumination—supposing
him a case.
Other, writers m
ak
e him older. Sutherland says: "The death of Jesus
occurred in the year 35." This would m
ak
e him thirty-nine at his
death*) thirty-six or thirty-eight w
h
en h
e began to teach (the former,
if- he taught three years, as John says; the latter, if he taught only
one year, as the synoptics tell us, ) and, say, thirty-five or thirty-
six at illumination.
All goes to sh
ow that at about the age specified a m
arked change took
place in him
; that whereas up to a certain age h
e w
as very m
u
ch as
others, he all at once ascended to d spiritual level quiti? over the
heads of ordinary m
en
. Those w
h
o knew h
im at hom
e, as.a body and a
young m
a
n
, could not understand his superiority, "is not this the
carpenter's son"? they ask. O
r as elsewhere reported: "Is not this
the carpenter the son of "ary?. . . . . and they were offended at him
".
This m
arked spiritual ascent occurring suddenly at this age is in it­
self almost diagnostic of the oncom
ing- of the cosmic sense.
The earliest written and probably m
ost authentic account of the illu­
mination qf Jesus runs as follows: "And straightway coming u
p out of
the water, h
e saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove
descending upon him
: ar.d a voice com
e out of the heavens saying T
H
O
U
A
R
T M
Y B
E
L
O
V
E
D S
O
N
, IN T
H
E
E I A
L
i S
E
LL P
L
E
A
S
E
D
. A
nd straightway the
Spirit driveth h
im forth into the wilderness". There is a tradition
that the illumination of Jesus took place the 6th or 10th of January.
The fact that Jesus w
ent to John to be baptized show
s that his m
ind
v/
a
s directed to religion and m
akes it probable that he had (before
Illumination) the earnest tem
peram
ent out of which, w
h
en at all, the
Cosm
ic Sense springs. It is not necessary to cuppoce that illumina­
tion took place immediately upon the baptism or that there w
as any
special connection between these two things. The impulse that drove
Jesus to solitude after his illumination is usual, if not universal.
Paul felt it and obeyed it; so did W
hitm
an
.
The above reproduction comprises two pages of material, pages 8
1 and 82, of
C o s m ic C o n s c io u s n e s s . The reader will note that all notes have been eliminated.
55
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
S T ILL A N O T H E R IN S T A N C E
Of More Published Maferial Used by Mr. Lewis in Compil­
ing A. M. 0. R. C. Secret Teachings
Thus far we have given consideration to three notable instances
wherein Mr. Lewis has used material from published and easily
procurable books for ONE OR MORE OF ms LECTURES, using such
material verbatim or with misleading interpolation. We now call
attention to another instance— a flagrant instance wherein he made
use of a book and its teachings which he himself strongly con­
demned.
We refer to his First Grade Lectures, being Lecture No. 6 , page
7, and ending on page 8 of A. M. O. R. C. official lectures, where
we find Mr. Lewis telling his members:
“It is necessary for us to sound these few words
of warning right now. In other words, after hav­
ing said all that we have said about books and how
the teachings of the Order have been preserved from
the curious and insincere, it is necessary for us to
advise you that the purchase of books claiming to
give you Rosicrucian teachings is simply a waste of
time and an endorsement and encouragement of a
fraud being practiced upon sincere seekers. For
instance, there is one book that has been offered on
the market for the last two or three years that pre­
tends to contain Rosicrucian teachings and writings.
1'lie author’s name is given in Latin form as though
it was a veiled name. The book sells for approxi­
mately $2.00 and in some stores for $3.00 or $4.00.
I he author of the book is a well-known writer of
New 1 bought stories and, so far as any records we
can find are concerned, he has never been initiated
into any Rosicrucian lodge or branch of the work,
and if he had been he would never have dared to
commercialize the secret teachings! One reading
of this book will convince any Rosicrucian student
that he knows nothing more of Rosicrucianism than
he could learn from some of the popular references
to the Order. I he book does not contain the Rosi­
er ucian teachings, or the rituals, or even correct sym­
bols, yet thousands are buying it in the hope of
finding it a quicker method of mastering the teach-
56
Italics ours.
Note carefully
and remember.
Note later use made
of one of this writer’s
New Thought books:
The Ilindu-Yogi
Science of Breath
Italics ours.
At least the book does
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
not contain an
inverted triangle
Italics ours.
Note later use
M r. Lewis made of
these Y ogi teachings.
Italics ours.
Condemns the teach­
ings and then uses
them.
Italics ours.
Italics ours.
Note this statement
carefully. See later
use made of these
teachings and directly
from the condemned
author and book.
M r. Lewis failed to
heed his own advice.
Italics ours.
See advertisement
on last cover of all
Lewis magazines
offering numerous
books for sale. He is
now in the book­
selling business,
regardless of the
imposition and bad
faith.
ings than through taking the proper course of in­
structions. This same author has published a book
on the Yotji Philosophy and gives his name there,
as the author, in the form of a Hindu or Indian
name. Thousands of persons have referred to that
Indian name as though it is the real name of a real
Yogi of India. The book does not contain the real
Yogi teachings, only talks around the subject, and
is not as complete as are some of the articles you
will find in encyclopedias pertaining to Y ogi phi­
losophy. The real Yogi philosophy is not adaptable
to our Occidental ways of living and our customs
and habits, and for that reason has never been of as
much benefit to the western world as to the eastern
world. To adopt the Yogi system of living and its
principles means taking a step backward in civiliza­
tion for Occidental persons. Yet thousands are being
deceived into buying this book through the belief
that they are getting an official Y ogi publication.
The same thing can be said regarding books that
tell you how to awaken your psychic consciousness,
how to develop your solar plexus, how to concen­
trate and secure everything you want from the
great cosmic abundant supply. Beware of all these
books. Read them if you insist, but read in a library,
so you w ill not be wasting your money buying them
and then casting them aside as worthless. Remem­
ber that we have no other reason in advising you
against these books than your own interest. J'Fe
are not in the bookselling business and do not have
special books of our own that we want to sell you in
preference to any others. W e could undoubtedly
establish a very profitable branch if we were to
recommend and sell to our students the hundreds of
books that have been written on occult and mystical
subjects, which we could buy at wholesale and eas­
ily sell at regular prices. Rut we would consider
this an imposition on intelligence of our members
and violation of the faith and good will that we
wish to establish and maintain between our mem­
bers and ourselves as essential parts of this great
Brotherhood.”
57
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
CHICANERY IN THE BEGINNING AS IN TH E END
Cunning Deception Permeates A. M. 0. R. C. Lessons from the
First to the Highest Grades
Why did Mr. Lewis warn his members in the first grade, in the
very beginning, against buying and reading The Hiitdtt-Yogi Sci­
ence of Breath, by Yogi Ramacharaka (William Walker Atkinson,
the well-known writer of “New Thought Stories”)? The reason
is apparent. He had plagiarized and used the teachings and text
of this book, or at least a part of it, as we shall show by his ad­
mission under oath, and he did not want his members to know
about it. Do you remember what we said about Mr. Lewis’ usual
and favorite practice of throwing a “smoke screen” about himself
to protect his thefts of material from published books for his
(A. M. O. R. C.) Se c r e t T e a c h in g s ?
Will you also kindly note the Imperator’s (Lewis’) warning
against purchasing and reading books claiming to give Rosicrucian
knowledge? Note particularly his statement that it is simply a
waste of time, that it is an endorsement and the encouragement of
a “fraud being practiced upon sincere seekers.''
Well! Well! Now, what do you think of that? When this
man was advising and warning A. M. O. R. C. members s o l e l y
and ONLY for their own interest, do you not think that it would have
been a fine thing— a most timely and appropriate thing— for him,
in his great, magnanimous spirit, in the deep and sincere interest he
felt for his members, to warn them against their own I m p e r a t o k
and his pilfering, plagiarizing charlatanism and against the FRAUD
he has practiced and is practicing upon sincere seekers, including
all his members?
And now let us compare— set Mr. Lewis’ advice and warning to
his members along beside his own practices on acts in using the
complete contents of at least two books for his higher grade les­
sons, namely: Among the Rosicrucians and The Cloud Upon the
Sanctuary, the partial contents of a third, viz, Cosmic Conscious­
ness, and a part of a fourth book, to wit: The Jlindu-Yogi Science
of Breath, as we shall presently see.
Having made the comparison, what do you think of the I m p e r a -
TOR of A. M. O. R. C. and his pilfering, plagiarizing charlatanism
and h is “ f r a u d b e in g p r a c t ic e d u p o n s in c e r e s e e k e r s ” ?
58
W I TI I BLACK MA G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
USES THE BOOK HE SO STRONGLY CONDEM NED
The Hindu-Yoiji Science of Brealli Admits It Under Oath
In the case of the Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis vs.
E. E. Thomas brought by Mr. Lewis in the Superior Court, Los
Angeles County, California, Mr. Lewis testified on the fifth day
of January, 1931. On his cross-examination by Mr. Kempley,
counsel for the defendant Thomas, he (Lewis) was forced to
admit, among other things, that he (Lewis) had used a portion of
the hook, The llindu-Yoiji Science of Breath, in one of his A. M.
O. R. C. lectures on “Arcane Philosophy.”
In support of this statement, we quote the relevant portion of
Mr. Lewis’ testimony on cross-examination from the reporter’s
official transcript, as follows:
MR. LEWIS TESTIFIES
Question (M r . Kem pley): I show you this in­
strument, which is headed “ A. M . O . R. C.,” un­
der that “ trademark” and “ official lecture,” and ask
Italics ours. you if that instrument is one of the lectures on
A rcane Philosophy?
Answer (M r . L ew is): It seems to be, although
it is bound together differently than we usually bind
our lectures.
Question: H ow do you mean; this staple that is
in it?
Answer: Yes, we usually have two.
Question: That is true. Th at was stapled in our
Italics ours. office. Aside from that, you would say that was one
of your lectures on Arcane Philosophy?
Answer: Yes.
M r. Kempley: I offer this in evidence and ask
it to be marked as Defendant’s Exhibit A.
The Court: It will be received and marked as
Defendant’s Exhibit A.
(Lecture on Arcane Philosophy No. 3 received
in evidence and marked Defendant’s Exhibit A .)
Question (M r . Kem pley): I show you a book,
Doctor Lewis, entitled The Hindu-Yogi Science of
Breath, and ask you if you are familiar with that
work.
Answer: Oh, I am sure we have a copy of it in
59
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G 1 M P E R A T O R
Italics ours.
M r. Lewis admits
using material of
Yogi book.
An admission
of plagiarism.
M r. Haycock was
the counsel for
A. M . O. R. C. and
M r. Lewis. He
strenuously objected
to this damaging
evidence.
our editorial library.
Question: Do you know whether or not it is a
fact that a large part of that Lecture No. 3 on Ar­
cane Philosophy was lifted verbatim from this par­
ticular book ?
Answer: Not a large part of it, but a portion.
Question: Are any quotation marks used or any
credit given to the author of this Ilindu-Y ogi Sci­
ence of Breath ?
M r. Haycock: Objected to.
The Court: Objection overruled.
Answer: No, there are no quotations used, but
in the introduction to the work it was stated vari­
ous works would be consulted and referred to.
Question: In the introduction to that particular
letter?
Answer: No, but in the letters that go to the
students, telling them they are going to receive some
supplementary lectures in the form of Arcane Phi­
losophy, and so on.
Question: There is nothing in these letters or
lectures to designate what particular part of the lit­
erature is the composition of some other writer and
what is your composition?
M r. Haycock: Objected to.
Th e Court: Objection overruled.
Question (M r . Kempley) : Neither you nor any­
one directly connected with your organization is the
author or publisher of that book, Doctor Lewis?
M r. Haycock: Objected to.
Th e C ourt: Answer the question. Objection
overruled.
Answer (M r . L ew is): No, nobody in our or­
ganization was connected with the publishing of
that book.
M r. Kempley: By "that book,” in the preceding
question, I refer to the book The Hindu-Yogi Sci­
ence of Breath, which was referred to in a previous
question. I w ill ask that that book be received in
evidence, solely for the purpose of showing that a
large part of that lecture was taken from this book.
M r. Haycock: Objected to.
The Court: The objection to the offer is over­
ruled, and it is received in evidence as Defendant’s
60
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Exhibit B.
Italics ours. ( I he book entitled The 11indu-Yoc/i Science of
Breath received in evidence and marked Defend­
ant’s Exhibit B.)
I his is the identical book which Mr. Lewis, in his First Grade
Lecture, No. 6, so strongly condemned and one of the books against
which he advised and warned his members from buying and read­
ing. Moreover, it deals with the Yogi system, which is not suited,
according to Mr. Lewis, for Occidental students. In spite of his
condemnation of the author, the book and the system, he delib­
erately and without credit makes use of at least a portion of the
contents in instructing his members.
What do you think of such practices? What must be thought
and what should be said of such insidious chicanery? Surely, no
language is sufficiently strong or quite expressive enough to con­
demn it as it should he condemned. The adjectives scandalous,
shocking, outrageous, shameful, disgraceful, degrading, dishonor­
able, disreputable, despicable and all other derogatory and oppro­
brious descriptive terms fall short of the mark. Nevertheless, such
practices and doings cannot he too severely condemned.
MR. LEWIS FORCED TO DISMISS SUIT
In the lawsuit above mentioned in which Mr. Lewis made the
damaging admission, also above mentioned, he was pressed on
cross-examination to make other and still more damaging admis­
sions— so much so that he did not complete his testimony. And,
to avoid the necessity of making such admissions, he dismissed the
suit of A. M. O. R. C. against Thomas; that is, he took a non-suit,
which is another bit of evidence and another indication that Mr.
Lewis cannot stand a real lest.
CHARGES AGAINST IMPERATOR PROVEN
IHs Pilfering, Plagiarizing Charlatanism Demonstrated
We have shown— demonstrated beyond all doubt, even to a cer­
tainty— that Mr. Lewis pilfered, plagiarized, used and misused the
entire contents of two books and the partial contents of two other
books in his lessons in the first and eleventh grades; that all of the
books so used were printed and published before he fabricated his
spurious Rosicrucian Order in 1915 and before he “printed its first
magazine and literature''; that the teachings so pilfered, plagi-
61
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
arized, used and misused were not Rosicrucian philosophy or teach­
ings, and that the deception, trickery and duplicity employed in so
pilfering, plagiarizing, using and misusing the contents and teach­
ings of said four printed and published books is quite unworthy of
a man— certainly unworthy of an “Imperator” of a Rose Cross
Order, even if it were a Rosicrucian Organization. Flowever,
A. M. O. R. C. is not a Rose Cross Order, and M r . L ewis is
not a Rosicrucian M aster or Imperator.” The truth of this
statement zvill also be demonstrated, to your entire satisfaction, be­
yond all doubt, as we proceed.
We have used only a small portion of the evidence in our pos­
session. The limit of this publication prohibits the use and exhibi­
tion of any more evidence and proof on this issue. However, we
have the evidence and can prove that Mr. Lewis invented, formu­
lated and manufactured and/or copied all the teachings of A. M.
O. R. C. from pages and paragraphs taken from books to be found
in libraries in the United States.
“THE IMPERATOR’S CHALLENGE
It will be remembered that Mr. Lewis issued a challenge (set
forth in full in facsimile Reproduction No. 1) in these words that:
Italics ours.
Italics ours.
First literature
printed 1915.
Emphasis ours.
“ If anyone can prove that one o r m o re o f our
lectures containing our fundamental teachings, or
that all or part of our principles, terminology, laws,
rituals and demonstrations w e re taken f r o m one or
m ore printed, typewritten, engraved or handwritten
books o r manuscripts printed and published o r made
public before our Order printed its first magazine
and literature, t h e I m p e r a t o r w i l l i m m e d i a t e l y
CONCEDE THE CHARGE AS TRUE, INC RIM INA TIN G
HIMSEI.F AS A PLAGIARIST AND FALSE PRETENDER
AND PERMIT, WITHOUT OPPOSITION OR FURTHER
ACTION, HIS IMPEACHMENT AND REMOVAL AS
I m p e r a t o r .”
MEMBERS OF A. M. O. R. C. MAY ACCEPT
CHALLENGE
Mr. Lewis refused our invitation to join us in a complete in­
vestigation of our charges against him by and before a competent
and impartial tribunal or committee, to be composed of high Ma­
ri 2
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
sons (see our booklet: The Challenge and Answer). Therefore,
it is useless and would avail nothing for us to accept Mr. Lewis’
challenge herein set forth. However, we have shown to members
of A. M. O. R. C. the exact and true nature of the dubious teach­
ings that are being given to them as Rosicrucian philosophy and
teachings. We have placed before them a part— only a small por­
tion— of the proof that they have been deceived and are being
defrauded. We have placed them in a position to accept the Im-
pf.r a t o r ' c h a l l e n g e and to demand that he concede the charges
as true and permit, without opposition or further action, his im­
peachment and removal as Imperator.
MAKE YOUR OWN INVESTIGATION
We have given you the cue; we have showed you how to investi­
gate for yourself and to your own satisfaction. If members of
A. M. O. R. C. will compare their lessons with various published
books and carefully investigate Rosicrucian history and philosophy,
they will find and convince themselves that the charges made against
Mr. Lewis are true; that their lessons contain no secret matter and
no inner secret Rosicrucian teachings or training. However, your
investigation should not end here. It should be pursued further
and along with us as we deal with the second phase of this booklet,
namely, the source of Mr. Lewis’ alleged authority and his unques­
tionable connection with B l a c k M ag ic a n d t h e m o s t n o t o r io u s
o f B l a c k M a g ic ia n s .
MAGIC— W HITE AND BLACK
The inference Made Clear
Before we proceed with this part of our subject, it will be well
to have a clear understanding of the difference between White and
Black Magic. All mystics and occultists operate under the same
law and use the same forces. However, there are two opposite
aspects of the law. The law may be used for Good, or it may be
used for Evil. Therefore, it is in the use and intended use of the
law that we have the true and exact distinction between White
Magic and Black Magic. White Magicians operate under and
teach the higher spiritual aspects of the law, always use it for good,
never use it for selfish purposes or for evil ends. Black Magicians
operate under and teach the lower aspects of the law and use it for
63
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
selfish purposes, for evil ends and practice the foul, degrading
black arts that lead to destruction. To state the distinction very
briefly, the White Magician is good, while the Black Magician is
bad. Most Black Magicians practice the deceptive arts and pre­
tend to be While and Good, as they secretly practice the black arts
of evil and destruction. However, this was not the case with
Aleister Crowley, the most notorious of all Black Magicians.
64
ALEISTER CROWLEY - MOST NOTORIOUS
OF BLACK MAGICIANS
. . . . /
In 1926 Mrs. Marian Dockerill, of New York City, who had
been a member of Crowley’s cult, the O. T. O., wrote a series of
articles making a compIefeA?.x/>05r of Crowley and his O. T. O.
Mrs. Dockerill’s sister, Lea Hirsig, a teacher of a children’s school
in the Bronx, New York City, became Crowley’s “High Priestess,
his goddess, his scarlet woman.” We quote Mrs. Dockerill’s own
description of the branding of her sister:
“When Crowley told her that she was to be his High Priest­
ess, his goddess, she did not demur. Kneeling in a chalked
circle on the floor, she let him brand the symbol of the cult
on her [chest] with the point of a red-hot dagger. He the
‘Beast of the Apocalypse’ and she, his bride, the ‘Scarlet
Woman of Babylon’.” {New Y ork Journal, March 13, 1926.)
Mrs. Dockerill’s expose was copyrighted by the International
Feature Service, Inc., and was published in the Hearst papers in
March and April, 1926. That you may have a better idea of Crow­
ley and his O. T. O., we give you the words of Mrs. Dockerill:
“Aleister Crowley is the strange Englishman who
began his career as a poet, mountain climber and
explorer, but who later had a mystic ‘revelation,’
Italics ours. proclaimed himself the 'Anti-Christ’ the ‘Beast of
the Apocalypse’ and the head of the O. T . O. cult,
which has secret branches in every part of the world.
. . . Crowley is a disciple of paganism, of the Great
God Pan, of Satan, the Devil, a practicer of Black
Magic.”— (New York Journal, March 13, 1926.)
Crowley was also exposed along the same lines in England by
another woman. He sued in the English courts for libel less than
six months ago, but lost the case, and the judge censured him
severely.
65
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
A TIMELY REVELATION
Is Crowley the Sponsor for Mr. Lewis?
It is of profound interest to students of the occult, and no doubt
it will be a shocking revelation to most members of A. M. O. R. C.
to learn of the close association of their “Imperalor” with the no­
torious Aleister Crowley— self-proclaimed Anti-Christ, Beast of
the Apocalypse, self-styled Baphomet, confessed Black Magician,
founder of A ..- .A ..- , and originator of (). T. ()., the Order
of Oriental Templars (Ordo Templi Orientis), in which organiza­
tion (O. T. O.) he (Mr. Lewis) claims and admits membership
and from which he also claims and admits holding a Charter of
Authority. In this connection see his “ Important Rosicruc'IAN
Document N o. 4,” being facsimile Reproduction No. 20.
THE REAL SPONSOR REVEALED
A sponsor for himself and A. M. O. R. C. has been very impor­
tant to Mr. Lewis. At any rate, it seems so, because he has written
and published much about his sponsors, although he has not, until
recently, made it very clear just who his sponsor has been or who
he is. Perhaps he did not desire it known, which may be the rea­
son he has made so many contradictory statements intended to con­
found and to lead to confusion. However, there need be no fur­
ther confusion. We shall produce herein the links of proof that
chain Mr. Lewis to Crowley, his Black Master— his Secret Chief
— his real sponsor— and will reveal the exact, the true, source of
his authority.
HIS INITIATION IN 1909
In the beginning of his spurious Rosicrucian activities in 1915
and for some time thereafter, Mr. Lewis claimed and frequently
published his claim that in 1909 he went abroad and was received
into or initiated in some kind of a Rosicrucian Order and that he
had received authority to establish his work in America in 1915.
His claims concerning the source of his authority, as in the matter
of his sponsor, have been vague, contradictory and confusing. He
has made claims of authority from Egypt, France, Germany,
Switzerland and other sources.
66
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
HIS 1909 INITIATION WAS IN LONDON
Not in Toulouse, France, as He Claimed
It now appears that prior to and during 1909 Mr. Lewis and
Mr. Albert II. Postel were employed by a publishing concern or
associated in the publication of a Mystery Magazine in New York
City. Mr. Lewis was the artist and Mr. Postel the astrologer.
An investigation by the United States postal authorities made it
advisable, if not necessary, for them to leave the country in the
year 1909. Mr. Postel tells us that he left for Paris, while Harvey
S. Lewis, as he was then known, paid a visit to London, where he
received his initiation in 1909, about which he has written so much
and so confusingly.
REMEMBER THE 1909 INITIATION
The initiation of Mr. Lewis in London in 1909 is to be remem­
bered and kept in mind. It is the first link in the chain of evidence
that chains him to his real sponsor, the Secret Chief of O. T. O.,
referred to and acknowledged by him in his letter of February 16,
1934, a part of which we herein reproduce, which the reader will
please carefully note, being facsimile Reproduction No. 32. For
it was only a short time prior to the year 1909 that Aleister Crow­
ley, who had been admitted as a member of the English Rosicrucian
Organization, broke his sacred obligations, turned Black and or­
ganized the A. .'. A. .-. and subsequently other associated, affili­
ated and subordinate orders, such as O. T. O.— Ordo Tcmpli Ori-
entis— in which Mr. Lewis holds membership (no question about it;
he admits it)— which order— O. T. O.— also issued to him a Char­
ter of Authority in July, 1921, said charter being his “ Important
Rosicrucian Document N o. 4,” which we reproduce herein, be­
ing facsimile Reproduction No. 20.
CROWLEY—THE NATURE OF HIS ORGANIZATIONS
AND HIS ACTIVITIES
Whatever his sins and however sinister his practices, Crowley
did not include among them the despicable practice of crafty decep­
tion. He boldly and openly declared himself to be Anti-Christ,
operated under the title of Bapiiomet (the evil one) and attempted
to deceive no one as to his own character, the nature of his organi­
zations and their activities.
67
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
In London, in the year 1909, he began the publication of T he
Equinox, the official organ of his A. .-.A..-., his subsequently
organized O. T. O. and his other numerous subordinate and affili­
ated organizations. In T he Equinox he boldly— brazenly— in­
formed the world and advised all capable of understanding of the
exact nature of O. T. O. and its activities.
THE BLACK ART OF DECEPTION
When Crowley accepted Mr. Lewis into his organizations, he
may have taught him the misuse of Divine Powers for selfish ends;
he may have instructed him in the misuse or— most likely— the
pretended use of occult forces to make money, at which Mr. Lewis
has become proficient. However, Crowley did not teach or en­
courage him in the use of the Black Arts of unlimited, cunning de­
ception, general plagiarizing of lessons and names or the operation
of his A. M. O. R. C. under false colors. No, indeed, Crowley,
his Secret Chief, sailed under the Black Flag openly and above­
board.
CROWLEY AND HIS ACTIVITIES
Briefly Narrated
Crowley was soon run out of England. He then came to the
United States, staying in New York City until the police served a
notice to “move on.” He next pursued his activities in Detroit,
Michigan, until he was forced to leave the country. From the
United States he went to Italy. On account of his Black Arts,
his scandalous and debasing practices and the shameful, vile and
injurious doctrines that he is teaching, he has been forced to fly
from one country to another, a hated and loathed outcast— “a man
without a country —until he has become, and of necessity must
remain, the Secret Chief of O. T. O., to which Mr. Lewis referred
in his letter of February 16, 1934. (Facsimile Reproduction
No. 32.) . '
C R O W LE Y ANN O U N CES T H E O R G A N IZ A T IO N
OF O. T. O.—ORDER OF O R IE N T A L T E M P L A R S
In the September number, 1911, of T he Equinox, his official
organ, Crowley makes the announcement of the organization of
the O. L O. Ordei of Oriental Templars. The announcement,
68
W I T H BL ACK MA G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
beginning at page vii of said magazine, is as follows:
O R D ER O F O R IE N T A L T E M P L A R S
Mysteria Mystica Maxima
“During the last twenty-five years, constantly in­
creasing numbers of earnest people and seekers after
truth have been turning their attention to the study
of the hidden laws of Nature.
“The growth of interest in these matters has been
simply marvelous. Numberless societies, associa­
tions, orders, groups, etc., have been founded in all
parts of the civilized world, all and each following
some line of occult study.
“While all these newly organized associations do
some good in preparing the minds of thoughtful peo­
ple for their eventually becoming genuine disciples of
the One Truth, yet there is but one ancient organi­
zation of mystics which shows to the student a royal
road to discover the one truth. This organization
has permitted the formation of the body known as
the ‘A n cien t O rder of O riental T emplars.’
It is a modern school of magi. Like the ancient
schools of magi, it derived its knowledge from Egypt
and Chaldea. This knowledge is never revealed to
the profane, for it gives immense power for either
good or evil to its possessors. . . .” (See facsimile
Reproduction Ao. 18.)
O. T. O. E ST A B L IS H E D BY CRO W LEY IN 1911
It will be remembered that Aleister Crowley became active
shortly before 1909 and established the A. . -. A. . - , in London;
that in the year 1911 he established the O. T. O.— Order of Ori­
ental T emplars ( O r d o T e m p l i O r i e n t i s ) as a part of the
A. . •. A. . •. and its Black Magic activities. To give a better pic­
ture and understanding of O. T. O., we quote from Crowley’s
statement concerning it, published in T he Equinox, the present
official organ of the A. . . A. .-. and O. T. O., page 200, of the
September issue, 1911, as follows:
“The names of women members are never di­
vulged.
“It is not lawful here to disclose the name of any
69
Note Crowley’s
efforts to draw from
all other groups.
Lewis has made
like attempts.
O. T . O.
(Ordo Templi
Orientis)
Note claim as to
Egypt. Lewis makes
similar claims.
Secret chief.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I W P E R A T O R
Lewis lias attempted
to do so also.
Ordo Temfili Orientis.
Note carefully
the name.
Note claims to
internationalism.
Lewis makes the
same claim.
Hermeticae Lucis.
Note these words.
Lewis teaches
Yoga also.
Lewis also makes use
of the terms Collegium
ad Spiriturn Sanctum.
See Reproduction
No. 21.
living chief.
“It was Karl Kellner who revived the exoteric
organization of the O. 1. O. and initiated the plan
now happily complete of bringing all occult bodies
again under one government.
“The letters O. T . O. represent the words Ordo
Templi Orientis (Order of the Temple of the Ori­
ent, or Oriental Templars), but they also have a
secret meaning for initiates.
“3. The Order is international and has existing
branches in every civilized country of the world.
The aims of theO .T.O .can only be understood fully
by its highest initiates; but it may be said openly that
it teaches hermetic science or occult knowledge, the
pure and holy magic of light, the secrets of mystic
attainment, Yoga of all forms, Gnana Yoga, Raja
Yoga, Bhakta Yoga and Hatha Yoga, and all other
branches of the secret wisdom of the ancients.
“In its bosom repose the great mysteries; its brain
has resolved all the problems of philosophy and life.
“It possesses the secret of the Stone of the Wise,
of the Elixir of Immortality and of the Universal
Medicine.
“Moreover, it possesses a secret capable of realiz­
ing the world-old dream of the Brotherhood of Man.
“It also possesses in every important center of
population a hidden retreat (Collegium ad Spiriturn
Sanctum), where members may conceal themselves
in order to pursue the great work without hin­
drance.” (See facsimile Reproduction No. 19.)
We are not at all concerned with the claims made. However,
we do desire to direct attention to the names and titles used and to
the thought expressed, that the O. T. 0.— Order of Oriental
Templars (Ordo Templi Orientis)—teaches Hermetic science . . .
and the magic of Light; that is, it is a Fraternity of Hermetic
Light Traternitatis Lucis Hermeticae— so that the reader may
keep in mind that it was OrdoT empli ORUiKTis-Fraternitatis Lucis
Hermeticae that granted to Mr. Lewis a charter in 1921, which he
wrongfully and deceitfully calls a Rosicrucian document when he
refers to it as his “ Important Rosicrucian Document No. 4.”
(See facsimile Reproduction No. 20.)
70
W I T 11 B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
B A P H O M E T -T H E E V IL O N E
Black Magician
We continue our quotation from page 201 of the same magazine,
as follows:
Collegium ad
Spiritual Sanctum.
The same
secret chief.
The O. H. O. as
authorized by--------- .
Italics ours.
Note degrees and
title of a Black
Magician—
Baphomet.
Order of the Temple.
A d vitam
“These houses are secret fortresses of Truth,
Light, Power and Love, and their position is only
disclosed under an oath of secrecy to those entitled
to make use of them.
“They are also temples of true worship, specially
consecrated by Nature to bring out of a man all
that is best in him.
“5. The authority of the O. T . O. is concen­
trated in the O. H. O. (Outer Head of the Order),
or Prater Superior. The name of the person occu­
pying this office is never disclosed except to his im­
mediate representatives.
“6. I'he authority of the O. H. O. in all English­
speaking countries is delegated by charter to the
Most Holy, Most Illustrious, Most Illuminated
and Most Puissant Bai' hom et X ° Rex Summus
Sanctissimus 33°, 90°, 96°, Past Grand Master of
the United States of America, Grand Master of
Ireland, Iona and All the Britains, Grand Master
of the Knights of the Holy Ghost, Sovereign Grand
Commander of the Order of the Temple, Most
Wise Sovereign of the Order of the Rosy Cross,
Grand Zerubbabel of the Order of the Holy Royal
Arch of Enoch, etc., National Grand Master Gen­
eral ad vitam of the O. T . O .” (See facsimile Re­
production No. 19A.)
These are the claims— this is the proclamation of the man
who frankly admits and openly proclaims himself to be a Black
Magician, who calls himself The Beast— T he Secret Chief of
O. T. O.— who publishes his pictures and signs them with his title
of “ Baphomet X°, O. T. O.” {See facsimile Reproduction
No. 31.)
t h e : n u m e r o u s t i t l e s
The Striking Likeness
Attention is directed to the unusual number of titles assumed and
71
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
carried by Aleister Crowley— white and black alike and indiscrimi­
nately. Members of A. M. O. R. C. and those familiar with Mr.
Lewis’ boasting claims will recall that he also has assumed and
used many unusual titles, claimed many special honors and has by
far surpassed his Secret Chief in claiming limitless authority, in
using glamorous and noteworthy titles and assuming unusual and
“special” honors. Yet the similarity of methods and practices of
the Secret Chief and his devout follower (Mr. Lewis) are “as alike
as two peas”— strikingly so— a perfect demonstration of the adage :
“As the teacher, so the pupil.”
T H E C O N N E C TIO N ABSO LU TELY E STAB LISH E D
Between Crowley, the Baphomet, and Lewis, the Imperator
As we proceed with the presentation of the evidence, the irrefuta­
ble proof, the conviction will grow more and more irresistible that
//. Spencer Lewis and Aleister Crowley are inseparably connected;
that Lewis is a follower and an intimate associate of Crowley and
that he (Lewis) intends and hopes to ultimately put in full opera­
tion and carry out, with A. M. O. R. C. as his vehicle, the grue­
some plans, the vicious, deadly designs of Crowley, his Black Mas­
ter and Secret Chief.
MR. LEWIS HAS FURNISHED THE PROOF
It will be recalled that Mr. Lewis falsely claimed initiation in
1909 in a French Rosicrucian Order when he fabricated A. M. O.
R. C. in 1915 and wrongfully took a Rosicrucian name for it; that
Mr. Postel, bis then intimate associate, is the authority for the
statement that the much-discussed initiation actually took place in
London. In the light of all the facts and circumstances, it appears
certain that the information furnished by Mr. Postel is correct and
that Mr. Lewis was initiated by Crowley in A. . ■
. A. . •. in London
in 1909, and not in a Rosicrucian Order in France. Let us now
consider the proof which Mr. Lewis has furnished— proof which
he cannot question. We trust the reader— especially A. M. O.
R. C. members—will carefully study this proof and follow through,
closely observing and noting the links of the chain of evidence that
proves, beyond a doubt, that Mr. Lewis is a follower and disciple
of Aleister Crowley, the notorious “Beast of the Apocalypse”—
the A nti-Christ.
72
W I T H B L A C K M A U I C C O N N E C T I O N S
IMPORTANT DOCUMENT No. 4
Misnamed Rosicrucian
Some time during the summer— in July, we believe, of 1921—
there was issued to H. Spencer Lewis, so he claims, a charter or
document by the O. T. O.— Ordo T empli Orientis-Fraternitalis
Lucis Hermelicae (see facsimile Reproduction No. 20)— to
which we invite the closest examination and investigation. It bears
the title Ordo T empli Orientis, with the sub-title Fraternitatis
Lucis IIermelicae. In the body of the document it certifies that
H. Spencer Lewis is a 33°, 90°, 95° of the Ancient and Primitive
Rites of Memphis and Mizraim* and the 7° of O. T. O.—THE
IDENTICAL ORDER FOUNDED BY ALEISTER CROWLEY in 1911. We
ask that this charter or document be carefully compared with Crow­
ley’s announcement of the formation of O. T. O.— Order of Ori­
ental Templars, fac-simile Reproductions Nos. 18, 19 and 19A.
If this is done, then there can be no question— no doubt whatever
— that Mr. Lewis’ Important Document No. 4 was issued by
O. T. O. by its Secret Chief or done at his direction. It is equally
clear and certain that this charter or document did not come from
any authentic Rosicrucian or Masonic source. If it did not come
from O. T. O. and was not issued by authority of Crowley, then it
is spurious—just another well-executed counterfeit.
IMPORTANT DOCUMENT No. 4
Issued 1921; Not Published Until 1933
It appears from the face of the document, also from the state­
ment of Mr. Lewis which we shall quote, that the “Important Ro­
sicrucian Document No. 4” was issued in July, 1921. However, a
facsimile of it was not published until November, 1933. Why did
Mr. Lewis withhold such publication for twelve years? Was it
because the document contradicts his glowing description of it pub­
lished in 1921? Perhaps.
* With seat in Austria. The French and usually accepted legitimate body of the
Ancient and Primitive KiTe of Memphis and Mizraim disclaims all knowledge of such
a document being issued to Mr. Lewis. Aleister Crowley admits his allegiance to this
Austrian Rite of Memphis and Mizraim.
73
I
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
TIIE IMPORTANT DOCUMENT
Described by Mr. Lezvis
In T he T riangle, AT. 6, on page 1, his then official organ,
dated September 29, 1921, under the title: Regarding Our
A ffiliations, Mr. Lewis misdescribes said “important document,
as follows:
Not Masonic.
Denied by the
Supreme Grand
Master of the rite
in France.
Note the titles.
Not Masonic honors.
O. T . O.
Crowley organization.
Fraternity Hermetic
Light.
Crowley’s
O r d o Templi Orientis.
“One other item may interest our members. A
large and interesting document was received during
the month of August [ 1921J from a Sovereign Sanc­
tum of Freemasonry abroad conferring upon our
lmperator [H. Spencer Lewis] the highest Masonic
degrees, such as honorary 33° and the 90 and 95u
of the Ancient and Primitive Rites of Memphis and
Mizraim (under a charter of authority issued by
John Yarker 33°, the eminent Masonic authority
and historian and sovereign Grand Master General
of England), whereby our lmperator is given the
Masonic title of Prince of Memphis (Egypt), mem­
ber of the Sovereign Tribunal and Defender of the
Order; and Sovereign Patriarchal Conservator of
the rites, Sublime Prince of the Magi. The honor­
ary 33° carries with it the title of Knight Grand
Inspector General. The document further makes
the lmperator an honorary member of the Sovereign
Sanctuary of Switzerland, Austria and Germany.
These Masonic honors are conferred under a char­
ter of authority of Grand Orient of Ancient Gaul
and the Supreme Sanctuary of Great Britain. Also
the Ordo Templi Orientis (Oriental Order of the
Temple, Fraternity of the Hermetic Light) has con­
ferred its high degrees upon our lmperator with the
title of Most Illustrious Sir Knight and Prater
R. C., appointing our Supreme Lodge in this coun­
try as Gage of Amity for Ordo Templi Orientis of
Europe.”
A N A D M IS S IO N BY MR. LE W IS
A Damaging Admission
We are not here and now concerned so much about the misrepre­
sentations and deceptions in the above description of said charter
or document, executed in typical Lewistonian style, as we are con-
74
W I T H BL ACK MA G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
cerncd with Mr. Lewis’ ADMISSION that the Ordo Templi Orientis,
Fraternity of the Hermetic Light (llermelicae Lucis or Fraterni-
tatis Lucis Hermeticae) has conferred its high degrees upon him.
It is an admission that he ( L ewis) is a member of O. T. O.,
FOUNDED BY CROWLEY, IIIS PRESENT SECRET ClIIEF.
ANOTHER INTERESTING DESCRIPTION
Of the “Important Document No. 4"
By Mr. Lewis
Mr. Lewis has given us another of his typical descriptions of the
“Important Rosicrucian Document No. 4,” printed underneath the
fac-simile publication of said document in T iie Rosicrucian
Digest, November, 1933, his now official organ. See facsimile
Reproduction No. 20 of the Important Rosicrucian Document
No. 4. The interesting description is as follows:
Not Rosicrucian.
Italics ours.
N ote: Basle,
Switzerland. Recall
the university there?
Masonic body cannot
grant a Rosicrucian
authority.
Crowley’s Order of
Oriental Templars.
Italics ours.
Powers and privi­
leges not yet
“The above photograph of a large document en­
graved at Lucerne, Switzerland, on heavy parch­
ment paper by the Supreme Magus and Frater Su­
perior of the ancient Rosicrucian Order for Swit­
zerland and Germany and dated in the ancient Rosi­
crucian Sovereign Sanctuary at Basle, Switzerland,
in the name of the ancient order of mystery tem­
ples of the Orient and in the name of the Ancient
and Primitive Oriental and Mystery Rites of Mem­
phis and Mizraim, Egypt. The Sovereign Sanctu­
ary of Switzerland and Germany, a continually op­
erating Rosicrucian center of Europe, confers upon
H. Spencer Lewis, Imperator of the Rosicrucian
Order of America, the 33°, 90° and 95° of the
Egyptian Mystery Rites of Memphis and Mizraim
and the 7th or last degree _of the Chivalric Order
of Oriental Templars, and appoints him as an honor­
ary member of the Sovereign Sanctuaries of
Switzerland, Germany and Austria and the Su­
preme Council of A. M. O. R. C. in California as
a ‘Gage of Amity.’ It is dated Basle, July, 1921,
and contains many Rosicrucian seals and emblems,
some of which are not clear or distinct in the above
photograph. This charter is the only one of its kind
ever issued for North America and includes certain
powers, authorities and privileges which have not
IS
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
exercised. yet been exercised by the Imperator of A. M . O.
11. C. in North America." (See facsimile repro­
duction of the above, No. 20A.)
S T IL L A N O T H E R D A M A G IN G A D M IS S IO N
By Mr. Lewis
Here we have another and the further certain and positive ad­
mission by Mr. Lewis that he is a member of O. T. O., contained
in his statement that the “Chhalric” Order of Oriental Templars
conferred upon him its 7th or last degree and appointed him an
honorary member of the Sovereign Sanctuaries of Switzerland,
Germany and Austria, from which it also appears— or at least it
is strongly and plainly hinted— that Mr. Lewis is a rather impor­
tant person in the High Councils and Sovereign Sanctuaries of the
Crowley organizations of Black Magic. This is also indicated by
the fact that Crowley, the Secret Chief, claims to have the 33rd,
90th and 96th degrees (see facsimile Reproduction No. 19A,
Paragraph 6), whereas the 33rd, the 90th and the 95th degrees,
all except the 96th degree, have been granted to Mr. Lewis.
THE ONLY CHARTER OF ITS KIND EVER ISSUED
FOR NORTH AMERICA
Aside from the absolutely false statement and implication that
the document is a Rosicrucian charter and issued from authentic
Rosicrucian sources, the usual Lewistonian camouflaging, and his
admission of membership in 0. T. 0., Mr. Lewis makes other in­
teresting statements to which we direct particular attention. He
tells us that “This charter is the only one of its kind ever issued for
North America.” This is probably true. It will be remembered
that Crowley exercised personal jurisdiction in North America until
he was run out of the country. It is also likely— indeed, most prob­
able— that he continued to supervise matters in North America
until he had a competent member to succeed him and take charge
{for him) of O. T. O.’s affairs in the “Valley” of North America.
This, no doubt, is the reason Crowley, the Secret Chief, withheld
the issuance of this charter to Mr. Lewis until July, 1921. Now,
since Mr. Lewis was not successful in securing his warrant of au­
thority, which he says was promised to him at the time of his initia­
tion in 1909, until 1921— about six years after 1915, when he fab­
ricated and launched A. M. O. R. C., a spurious Rosicrucian organi-
76
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
zation. Such being the case, was it not the plan— the scheme of
Mr. Lewis and his Secret Chief— that he (Lewis) should build up
an organization under the holy name of The Rosy Cross and
then convert it into an O. T. O. organization, sailing under the
Black Flag, when and as an O. T. O. charter could be granted to
Lewis, and when and as the conversion could or can be made? We
may, and often do, ascertain the secret designs of men from their
acts. Let us follow this thought further to find the answer to this
question.
POWERS, AUTHORITIES AND PRIVILEGES
NOT YET EXERCISED BY THE IMPERATOR
Mr. Lewis also states that this charter “includes certain powers,
authority and privileges which have not yet been exercised by the
Imperalor of A. M. O. R. C. in America.’’
W IIAT PRIVILEGES? The privilege to deceive his members—to
take their money under false pretenses—to lead them to believe
that they had joined and were members of the Rosicrucian Brother­
hood— an order of White Mftgicl This he has done. The “privi­
lege” he refers to is the privilege of leading them into the O. T. O.
— Ordo Templi Orientis, an order of Black Magic.
W HAT AUTHORITY? He has claimed to have and to exercise au­
thentic Rosicrucian and Masonic authority, but the claims are false
and spurious. The only Rosicrucian authority which he now exer­
cises or can exercise under this charter is the spurious Rosicrucian
authority of Aleister Crowley, a former member of the Rose Cross
Order, who denounced his vows, violated his obligations and turned
Black. The Masonic authority he is now exercising or can exercise
under this charter is the authority of the unrecognized (in Amer­
ica) rites of Memphis and Mizraim, having its seat in Austria,
while the only legitimate and authentic authority he is now exer­
cising or may exercise under this charter granted by O. I . O. is the
authority of A l e is t e r C r o w l e y , the notorious Black Magician.
W hat p o w e r s ? This raises another question— a serious ques­
tion— namely: Does H. Spencer Lewis really possess occult pow­
ers? If he does, then let all members of A. M. O. R. C. take notice
and betvare, because it is a fact, which admits of no gainsaying, that
he is operating under a warrant of authority from O. T. O.— the
most notorious of all Black organizations—'and intends, when and
77
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
as he can, to make A. M. O. R. C. an integral part of this disreputa­
ble organization. Then the Imperator will be in a position to ex­
ercise—wiH be free to exercise— those “certain powers, authority
and privileges.”
T H E A U T H E N T IC ROSE CROSS
IS A RELIG IO US ORDER
The authentic Rosicrucian Brotherhood—Temple of the Rosy
Cross— is a religious order, not sectarian, yet truly religious in
fullest and deepest meaning of the word. Its chief purpose, the
Great fFork, is to develop and improve the Soul. It teaches the
highest spiritual aspect of the law. It deals only with pure White
Magic.
A. M. O. R. C. WAS FORMERLY REPRESENTED TO
BE A RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION
Until and prior to 1933, when Mr. Lewis decided to make the
formal announcement of and to publish a facsimile of his charter
and warrant of authority from O. T. O.—Order of Oriental Tem­
plars— the world’s most notorious Anti-Christ organization, he
represented A. M. O. R. C. to be a religious order. Not only did
he represent A. M. O. R. C. to be a religious institution, he went
much farther. He represented himself to be the Bishop of the
Pristine Church of the Rose Cross, and as late as October, 1928,
ordained a priest of said Church in these words:
The Imperator.
The Bishop.
Pristine Church.
The Priest.
The Church.
“Greetings:
“Know all men that I, H. Spencer Lewis, Im­
perator of the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Cru-
cis of North America, and Bishop of the Pristine
Church of the Rose Cross incorporated in the State
of California, do hereby make, appoint, constitute
and ordain E. E. Thomas a Priest of the Pristine
Church of the Rose Cross, with power and full au­
thority to perform such ecclesiastical ceremonies and
other offices pertaining to a duly qualified Priest of
the Pristine Church of the Rose Cross.” (See fac­
simile Reproduction No. 21.)
78
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
A. M. O. R. C. N O T N O W A R E LIG IO U S
O R G A N IZ A T IO N
Since Mr. Lewis decided in 1933 to make known fully his con­
nection with and warrant of authority from O. T. O., he has been
gradually changing his propaganda, representations and advertis­
ing matter as to the r e l i g i o u s status and character of A. M. O.
R. C. He now boldly declares, without any camouflage or deceit,
that A. M. O. R. C. is NOT a r e l i g i o u s o r g a n i z a t i o n .
In a late issue (May, 1935) of the Scientific A merican we
find the following cold-blooded “scientific” advertisement, which we
quote v e r b a t i m , as follows:
“T h e M ysterious W orld W it h in Y ou
“Those strange feelings of intuition and premo­
nition are the urge of your inner self. W ithin you
there is a world of unlimited power. This dynamic,
strange, mental force is secreted in the recesses of
your mind. Its astonishing helpfulness you sense by
an occasional hunch or inspiration. Learn to
properly direct and control it and you can do the
right THING at the right tim e and master your
life.
“T his free sealed book, The Rosicrucians, an
age-old Brotherhood (not a religion) have shown
thousands of men and women how to bring happi­
ness and achievement into their lives by the use of
these little-understood powers of self. They invite
you to write today for the sealed gift book that tells
how you may obtain these startling teachings for
study and use in your daily affairs.
“Address: Scribe D. A. Z.,
“ Rosicrucian Brotherhood—A. M. O. R. C.,
San Jose, California.
“R emember— T he Rosicrucian O rder is
N O T a religious organization.” (See fac­
simile Reproduction No. 22.)
HAS THE EARMARKS OF BLACK MAGIC
This advertisement does not set forth Rosicrucian doctrines. The
Rosicrucians teach the development of s o u l p o w e r s , w h i c h a r e f a r
a b o v e p o w e r s o f t h e m i n d . T iie great work: of the Rose Cross
79
.Mind force, not
soul powers.
Italics ours.
Happiness and
achievement.
An appeal to
selfishness.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
is to accomplish soul consciousness, soul illumination, which leads
to immortality. This advertisement promulgates the cold scien­
tific doctrines of mind force— the development of the mind. It is
an appeal to the selfish instincts; it advocates the development of
those lower powers of self which lead to destruction. It has all the
earmarks of Black Magic.
IS THE IMPERATOR CONVERTING THE
A. M. O. R. C. INTO THE O. T. O.?
Is Mr. Lewis, like his Black Master, his Secret Chief, also A nti­
Christ? Is he by his recent persistent propaganda, that A. M. O.
R. C. is not A religious organization, preparing its members
and the puhlic for the conversion of A. M. O. R. C. into an anti­
religious, an A nti-Christ, organization? Is it his intention and
his purpose to slowly, yet surely, convert his organization into an
O
'. T. O. organization and make it an integral part of Crowley’s
vicious domain of Black Magic? Is the conversion now in process
—is it taking place now? The evidence— all the facts and circum­
stances of the case— lead to the conclusion that Lewis is now at­
tempting to convert A. M. O. R. C. into a non-religious—A nti­
Christ— Black Magic organization. Finally, does Mr. Lewis
aspire to become the Secret Chief of the O. T. O. organization of
the world, succeeding his illustrious master of Black Magic, Aleister
Crowdey ?
“ C O L L E G I U M A D S P I R I T U M S A N C T U M ”
In Crowley’s announcement of the formation of O. T. O., Order
of Oriental Templars, in the last paragraph, on page 200, of the
September issue, 1911, of T he Equinox (see facsimile Reproduc­
tion No. 19), in speaking of the O. T. O., he says: “It also pos­
sesses in every important center of population a hidden RETREAT
{Collegium ad Spiritum Sanctum), where members may conceal
themselves in order to pursue the great work without hindrance.”
An idea of the great work that is pursued in the hidden retreats of
O. T. O. may be gathered from what is stated herein. Those who
would have more of the gruesome, heart-sickening and hideous de­
tails may get them from Crowley, as published in his official
organ, T he Equinox, and the Crowley O. T. O. exposes by Mrs.
Miriam Dockerill and others.
80
W I T H BLACK MA GI C C O N N E C T I O N S
Mr. Lewis makes the "hidden retreat” of O. T. O., Crowley’s
“Collegium ad Spiritual Sanctum ” a part of the G r a n d C o l l e g e
of R ites o f A. M. O. R. C. See the letterhead and seal of the
G r a n d C o l l e g e of R ite s o f A. M. O. R. C. shown in facsimile
Reproduction No. 21. The seal contains the word “ I n t e r n a -
t i o n i s .” Does this not indicate that it is a part of Crowley’s inter­
national organization? In the center of the seal is an eagle with
outspread wings, with 33 above its head—a well-known symbol of
Scottish Rite Masonry. On the breast of the eagle is an inverted
triangle, just as the inverted or descending triangle is made upon
the unveiled bosom of the priestess in the black, unholy rites of
O. T. O.
T H E IN V E R T E D T R IA N G L E
Where D id Lewis Get It?
Since the beginning of his operations in 1915 under a plagiarized
Rosicrucian name, Mr. Lewis has used the inverted or descending
triangle as a sign and symbol of A. M. O. R. C. and his work. He
has made the inverted triangle conspicuous by its constant use on
his letterheads, on all A. M. O. R. C. literature and in all his pub­
lications.
THE INVERTED TRIANGLE
A Symbol of Black Magic
We have heretofore repeatedly charged that Mr. Lewis was
using a symbol of Black Magic. He has vigorously defended his
use of the inverted triangle. We have not heretofore made a full
explanation of the mystery of the inverted triangle or indicated the
source from which he secured the right to use it or why he uses it.
We will now unveil the mystery and indicate the source from whence
he gets it. The reader may determine why he uses it. In Volume
III, No. 1, page 225, of T h e E q u i n o x , Aleister Crowley prints a
part of the Ritual of O. T. O.— Order of Oriental Templars—
from which we reproduce the pertinent part of TIIE CEREMONY OF
THE OPENING OF TIIE VEIL, relating to the inverted or descending
triangle, as follows:
81
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
ECCLESIAE G NOSTICAE C A T H O L IC A E
spot; I upraise thee; I lead thee to the East; I set thee upon
the summit of the Earth.
He thrones the Priestess upon the altar. The
Deacon and the children follow, they in rank, be­
hind him.
The Priestess takes the Book of the Law, resumes
her seat, and holds it open on her breast with her
two hands, making a descending triangle zvith
thumbs and forefingers.
To produce the inverted or descending triangle, the reader may
make the sign as above directed.
Aleister Crowley established a Temple of the O. T. O. in De­
troit, Michigan. After operating there for some time, there was
an expose, which created such an open scandal that he was forced
to flee from this country—let us hope, never to return. It was
shown that the rites of O. T. O. were those of Black Magic; that
during the ceremony of the o p e n i n g of THE VEIL the priestess was
nude, and that not only was the sign of Black Magic— the inverted
triangle— made upon her maidenly bosom by her hands, the unholy
sacraments of Black Magic were also given from her naked body.
These were the actual ceremonies, a part of the ritual of O. T. O.,
Order of Oriental Templars, established by Aleister Crowley,
printed under Liber XV, O. T. O., and issued by order of
Bapiiomet, under the seal of Crowley in Volume III, No. 1, T he
Equinox.
IS THERE ANY REMAINING DOUBT?
There is an abundance of additional evidence that can be pro­
duced upon this subject if space permitted, or if we cared to pursue
the subject further. However, is there any remaining doubt that
Lewis has made, or intends to make, the “H idden Retreat of
O. T. O., Crowley’s “Collegium ad Spiritum S a n c t u m a part of
the Grand College of Rites of A. M. O. R. C.; that the inverted
triangle is a sign or symbol of Black Magic, or that Mr. Lewis re­
ceived the authority to use the inverted triangle, the symbol of
82
1
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
Black Magic, from Crowley, his Secret Chief?
THE CROWLEY CROSS
In this connection, we recall that Aleister Crowley had been a
member of an authentic English Rosicrucian organization, in which
he was probably instructed in the Mystery of the Cross; that he
denounced his vows, broke his solemn obligations and turned Black,
and that thereafter, a short time prior to 1909, he fabricated and
launched the A. . •. A. . •. in London. As and for the grand symbol
of his A. . A. . its ramifications, subordinate orders and their
Black Magic activities, he adopted a specially designed cross—not
the Rosy Cross that is and long has been the symbol of the Rosicru­
cian Brotherhood, but the Crowley Cross. Crowley made publica­
tion of his specially designed cross in March, 1910, facing page
210, Volume I, No. 3, of T he Equinox, which we reproduce
herein, being facsimile Reproduction No. 23. Will the reader
kindly make special note of Crowley’s Cross— the grand symbol
of his various Black Magic activities? It is of special interest.
We shall presently show that Mr. Lewis uses this same Crowley
Cross in his work and recently made an unsuccessful attempt to
register it as an emblem of A. M. O. R. C. in the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
THE MYSTERY OF THE CROSS
The cross, a very ancient symbol, involves within its mysteries,
among others, the right use of divine forces for the generation and
regeneration of bodies; for the transmutation of gross matter into
the fine, and for the illumination of the soul, that leadeth to im­
mortality— which is White Magic. It also involves within its mys­
teries the wrongful use or misuse of the same divine forces for the
degeneration and destruction of bodies; for the transmutation of
gross matter into still grosser matter, and for the development of
certain vicious powers that leadeth to the destruction of the soul—
which is Black Magic. Therefore, the cross in its ascending aspect
may be and is used as a sign and symbol of White Magic and in
its descending aspect may be and is used as a sign and symbol of
Black Magic.
The special design of the Crowley Cross, the sign and symbol of
his black arts, is most interesting. It is noted that among the nu-
83
i
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
merous symbols that Crowley has placed upon his specially designed
cross are several inverted or descending triangles, clearIy indicat­
ing its descending aspect, making it the sign of his black arts and a
symbol of the Black Magic activities of his A. . A. . and O. T. O.
and other associated and affiliated orders.
MR. LEWIS AND CROWLEY’S CROSS
On the 14th day of April, 1934, H. Spencer Lewis, as president,
and R. M. Lewis, as secretary, executed an application on behalf of
the Supreme Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Mystical Order
Rosae Crucis, under the oath of R. M. Lewis, for the registration
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of the Crowley Cross as
an emblem of A. M. O. R. C., which application was filed a few
days subsequent hereto in the office of the Secretary of the Com­
monwealth at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Attached to said application was a copy— a facsimile— of the
Crowley Cross. (Compare the Crowley Cross in Reproduction
No. 23 with the one attached to the A. M O. R. C. application,
Reproduction No. 24.)
After reciting the Act authorizing the registration of emblems
and other insignia of lodges, orders, fraternal societies, etc., the
application continues as follows:
N ot repugnant to laws
of U. S. and
Pennsylvania?
The application
was rejected.
An attempt to register
the Crowley Cross—
a sign of Black Magic
as an emblem of
A. M . O. R. C.
“ . . . the undersigned lodge, the principles and
activities of which are not repugnant to the Consti­
tution and laws of the United States or this Com­
monwealth, desiring to register an emblem in the
office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth, for
the purpose provided for in said Act, does hereby
certify:
1. 1 he name of the Lodge so registering is the
Supreme Grand Lodge of the Ancient and M ysti­
cal Order Rosae Crucis.
2. Its address, location or place of business is
223 Dan Drive, Alt. Lebanon Station, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.
3. 1 he emblem to be registered, two fac-similes
or duplicates of which accompany this application,
consist of a rose and a cross design and consists of a
large cross containing designs with a small rosy
cross in the center of the larger cross with various
84
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
designs encircled about it. In each arm of the cross
is a triangle design with various other designs and
lettering of ancient historical origin.” (See fac­
simile Reproduction N o. 24.)
In die affidavit attached to and made in connection with the above
application for the registration of the Crowley Cross of Black
Magic in Pennsylvania as an emblem of A. M. O. R. C., R. M.
Lewis, secretary, states under oath:
“ . . . that the lodge [Supreme Grand Lodge of
A . M . O. R. C .] so filing such emblem [the Crow ­
ley Cross] has the right to wear, exhibit, display or
use the same [the same Crowley symbol of Black
M agic] for its benefit and on behalf of all associa­
tions, degrees, branches, subordinate lodges and
auxiliaries of said lodges and auxiliaries of said
lodge and the individual members and those here­
after to become members thereof throughout this
Commonwealth; and that no other association,
lodge, order, society, organization, union, founda­
tion, federation, degree, branch, subordinate lodge
or auxiliary thereof, nor the individual members
thereof has no right to wear, exhibit, display or use
the same in the identical form or in any such near
resemblance thereof as may be calculated to de­
ceive. (See facsimile Reproduction N o. 24/1.)
MR. LEWIS NOW USING CROWLEY’S CROSS
AND SYMBOL OF BLACK MAGIC
Not only does Mr. Lewis claim the right to the exclusive use of
the Crowley symbol of Black Magic—he has been using it. Re­
cently there was mail from Cairo, Egypt, to his fourth degree mem­
bers, "A Treasure Chest Message," purporting to be from the
Grand Master of the Rose-Croix Order of Egypt, advising them
that they had been selected to become honorary members of the
“Amenholep Lodge in ‘Egypt” and were entitled to receive certain
special lessons containing a special study of the Kabala, the condi­
tion being that the members should detach and sign a “Warrant
for Special Study” contained in the booklet, agree to make a con­
tribution to A. M. O. R. C. and mail it to the secretary general,
A. M. O. R. C., San Jose, California— not to Egypt— whereupon
the special lessons would be mailed from San Jose. Although the
85
Claims for
A . M . O. R. C. the
exclusive right to use
the Crowley Cross and
his emblem of
Black Magic.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
Treasure Chest Message purports to be from Egypt, the presump­
tion persists that it was prepared in its entirety by Mr. Lewis in
San Jose, California. Mr. Lewis is a talented artist and handwrit­
ing expert. It is said that he can execute a signature to the degree
of perfection. However, be that as it may be, A. M. O. R. C.
received the benefit of the propaganda of the “Treasure Chest Mes­
sage” and the contributions for the lessons, hence Mr. Lewis be­
comes directly and closely connected with the “Treasure Chest
Message,” either as author of it or sponsor for it. Contained
within and occupying an entire page of the “Treasure Chest Mes­
sage” is the Crowley Cross— his specially designed symbol of Black
Magic. We reproduce the Crowley Cross from the “Treasure
Chest Message,” being facsimile Reproduction No. 25.
COMPARE THE SYMBOLS
We invite you to compare the Crowley Cross— the grand sign
of his black arts and the symbol of the Black Magic activities of
his organizations as published by him in T he Equinox in 1910
(Reproduction No. 23)— with the symbol which Mr. Lewis at­
tempted to register and claims the right to the exclusive use hereof
(Reproduction No. 24) and the same symbol used in the “Treas­
ure Chest Message” (Reproduction No. 25). Thus we produce
another link of the many links in the chain of evidence that proves
the inseparable connection between Mr. Lewis anil Crowley, his
Black Master and Secret Chief.
CERTIFICATE OF AFFILIATEd BvIEMBERSIIIP WITH
AMENHOTEP LODGE, LUXOR
from the back cover of Mr. Lewis’ “Treasure Chest Message”
we reproduce the certificate of affiliated membership granted to his
fourth degree members, being facsimile Reproduction No. 26.
Phis certificate is of interest and important for several reasons,
hirst, it will be observed that Mr. Lewis plagiarizes and uses the
name Rose-Croix, the title of the eighteenth degree of Scottish Rite
Masonry, which is further accumulative evidence of his extensive
and unlimited pilfering charlatanism.
THE SEAL OF BAPHOMET
Next we will notice the first seal that precedes the first signature.
86
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
It is the seal of Baphomet. To get a clear idea of the seal of
Baphomet, turn to our reproduction of the picture of Aleister Crovv-
loy (facsimile Reproduction No. 31). On the upper left-hand
side of the picture you will find Crowley’s signature of Baphomet
preceded by his seal of Black Magic or the seal of Baphomet.
GRAND MASTER GENERAL AD VITAM
OF O. T. 0.
In paragraph 6 of Crowley’s Manifesto of the O. T. O. Repro­
duction No. 19A) you will notice that among the titles which Crow­
ley claims for himself and the O. H. O. (Outer Head of the Or­
der) are: M ost H oly, M ost Illustrious, M ost Illuminati®
and M ost Puissant Baphomet X° Rex Summus Sanctissimus
33°, 90°, 96° and N ational Grand M aster General Ad Vitam
of the O. T. O. Now, if you turn to the certificate of affiliated mem­
bership (Reproduction No. 26), you will see that the first signature
following the seal of Baphomet is the signature of a Grand Master,
ad vitam of 33°, 90°, Rex Summus Sanctissimus, or the signature
of an important dignitary of Crowley’s Black Cult of the O. T. O.,
which will tend to strengthen your growing conviction, if you are
not already fully convinced, that Lewis is closely and most inti­
mately connected with Crowley, his Secret Chief.
THE OFFICIAL SEAL OF THE O. T. O.
A title page of T he Equinox, official organ of the A. . A. .*.
and the O. T. O., is herein reproduced (facsimile Reproduction
No. 27). The first seal shown near the top of the page is the seal
or insignia of the A .. . A. . 1. The second seal shown near the
center of the page is the seal or insignia of the O. T. O. It is to
this seal that we would direct your particular attention and ask you
to keep it in mind as we proceed.
BOOK OR LIBER 777
In connection with the immediate subject to be discussed, we re­
produce from T he Equinox as advertisement of Book 777, by
Crowley, A. A. publication in Class B., being facsimile Re­
production No. 28. Book or Liber 111 has a special secret and oc­
cult significance in Crowley’s Black Cults. Will you please keep
this in mind as we proceed?
87
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I iMP E R A T O R
THE LEWIS CATHEDRAL OF THE SOUL
In practically all issues of The Rosicrucian Digest, Mr. Lewis
prints an announcement covering his Cathedral of the Soui, as
follows:
Not members of
Rosicrucian
Fraternity.
W oe unto those who
place themselves in
these vibrations.
Book 777 issued in
1909 by Crowley,
the Black Magician.
“ The ‘Cathedral of the Soul’ is a Cosmic meet­
ing place for all minds of the most advanced and
highly developed spiritual members and workers of
the Rosicrucian Fraternity. It is a focal point of
cosmic radiations and thought waves from which
radiate vibrations of health, peace, happiness and
inner awakening. Various periods of the day are set
aside when many thousands of minds are attuned
with the Cathedral of the Soul, and others attuning
with the Cathedral at this time w ill receive the
benefit of the vibrations. Those who are not mem­
bers of the organization may share in the unusual
benefit as well as those who are members. The
book called Liber 777 describes the periods for vari­
ous contacts with the Cathedral. Copies w ill be
sent to persons who are not members by addressing
their request for this book to the Friar S. P. C.,
care of A. M . O. R. C. Tem ple . .
MEMBERS OF THE ROSICRUCIAN FRATERNITY AND
THE LEWIS CATHEDRAL OF TH E SOUL
Mr. Lewis does a grave injustice to members of the Rosicrucian
Fraternity when he declares that his Cathedral of the Soul is a
cosmic meeting place for all minds of the most advanced and highly
developed spiritual members of the Rosicrucian Fraternity. Mem­
bers of the August Rosicrucian Fraternity will have nothing to do
with— have never had anything to do with— the Lewis Cathedral
of the Soul. The reason, so apparent, will presently appear.
THE LEWIS CATHEDRAL OF THE SOUL
Under the Vibrations 777 and the Seal of the Black Cult
of 0. T. O.
Next we reproduce the cover of the Lewis booklet dealing with
his often-announced and much-advertised Cathedral of the Soul,
being facsimile Reproduction No. 29, from which it appears that
this Cathedral of the Soul is under and in accordance with the doc­
trines of Crowley s Book 777, and conducted with the approval and
88
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
under the sign, seal and insignia of the Black Cult of the O. T. O.
Thus does it become most apparent that real Kosicrucians can have
—will have—’
nothing to do with the Lewis Cathedral of the Soul
bearing the earmarks of Crowley and the seal and insignia of the
black arts of the O. T. O.
THE LEWIS CHARTER BEARS TH E
BLACK SEAL OF THE O. T. O.
If you will turn to the charter, “Important Document No. 4,”
(Reproduction No. 20), the warrant of authority under which Mr.
Lewis is carrying on and conducting the affairs of A. M. O. R. C.,
you will see that the third seal from the left is the same identical
seal shown on the title page of T he Equinox (Reproduction
No. 27) as the official seal and insignia of the O. T. O. (Ordo
Templi Orientis), whose whole doctrines, dangerous teachings and
vicious practices have been summarized by Crowley in these words:
“Do WHAT thou WILT SHALL EE THE wiiole law .” (See Repro­
duction No. 27). Tims it does become crystal clear that Mr. Lewis
has or is attempting to put A. M. O. R. C. and the Cathedral of the
Soul under the Black Domain of fUeister Crowley, whom he ac­
knowledges to be his Secret Chief, as we shall presently show.
A COUPLE OF PICTURES
The Imperalor and His Secret Chief
Most charlatans and Black Magicians are vain, because they deal
with the lower aspects of the law, which is Vanity, they delight in
advertising their powers or pretended powers, also their wares and
merchandise; they love the limelight and, most of all, they simply
gloat upon their published pictures with malignant satisfaction.
So the Imperator, Lewis, had his picture taken in the full regalia
of his office and published it in his official organ, Tin A merican
Rosae Crucis, February issue, 1916, opposite page 16, which we
have reproduced herein, facsimile Reproduction No. 30. So, also,
his Secret Chief, Aleister Crowley, of the O. T. O., had his picture
made in full regalia of his “high and ennobling” office— the Most
Puissant Baphomet— that is, the Most Powerful, the Most Mighty
Baphomet— and published it in his official organ, T he Equinox,
Volume III, No. 1, opposite page 197, which we have also repro­
duced herein, facsimile Reproduction No. 31. Will you take a
look at these pictures with us?
89
FACSIMILE REPRODLXTION No. 30
Reproduced from A m e r i c a n R o s a e C r u e t s , February, 1916, opposite page 16. Here
we have the I mperator of A. M. O. R. C., “ M o s t P e r f e c t M a s t e r Profundis,” face to
face with his S e c r e t C h i e f of 0. T. O., Crowley, M o s t P u i s s a n t B a f h o m e t —the A n ti­
Christ. Note the seal of Baphomet and the inverted triangle on his regalia and com­
pare with Crowley's picture (opposite R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 3 1 ) .
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 31
Reproduced from T he Equinox, Vol. Ill, No. 1
, opposite page 197. I!is Black
Satanic Majesty in person—Crowley, the Secret Chief of the O. T. O., under his sig­
nature and sign of Baphomet, the A n ti-Christ. Note the sign or seal of Baphomet
and compare with the similar sign and seal on Lewis’ picture (opposite R e p r o d u c t i o n
No. 3 0 ).
91
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
TH E STORY THESE PICTURES TELL
In the upper left quarter of Crowley’s picture (Reproduction
No. 31) you will see his special title, the one by which he desires
foremost to be known, viz : Ba p iio m e t X°, O. I . O., endorsed upon
his picture by himself in his handwriting. Immediately preceding
his favorite title is his seal. It is the seal of Baphomet, the evil
one— the Black Magician.
It will also be seen and noted that the collar of his regalia makes
or forms upon his chest an inverted or descending triangle, as is
made upon the bosom of the priestess in the ceremonies of the
opening of the veil heretofore referred to.
Now, let us look at the picture of Mr. Lewis, the Imperator, the
Grand Master General of A. M. O. R. C. (Reproduction No. 30).
On bis apron or regalia, lower left-hand corner, you see the sign,
the seal of Baphomet, not exactly like the seal used by his Chief, yet
so similar, so strikingly similar, that there is no mistaking, no gain­
saying, the fact that it is intended to be, indeed, that it is, the seal
of Baphomet. To be sure, the seal used by the Imperator could
not be the same, exactly the same as the seal used by his Chief,
even in the realms of Black Magic. The inferior may not use the
title or exercise all the rights and prerogatives of his superior, his
Chief. However, it may be said for Mr. Lewis that if there is
anyone in this wide world who has the brazen, unmitigated gall
and bold, presumptuous effrontery to assume to have all the titles,
privileges or rights and to exercise all of the prerogatives of his
Chief, it is the Imperator of A. M. O. R. C. Indeed, as we have
shown herein, he will and he has pilfered and plagiarized the works
of many;* stolen and used the names and title of the Authentic
Rosicrucian Brotherhood, and without the slightest justification or
right has laid claim to all Rosicrucian wisdom and authority. Truly,
there is nothing so high or divine upon which he will not attempt
to lay his profane hands and nothing so low, so despicable, to which
he will not stoop.
T H E SEAL OF B A P H O M E T
The Insignia of Crowley, the Chief,
and of
Lewis, the First Deputy Chief
The Crowley seal or sign of Baphomet is made or composed of
♦See monograph: Randolph Foundation, the Authentic Body, lias Exclusive Right
to Use of Names.
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
multiple crosses and double crosses. It is an exact and an ex­
pressive symbol of the evil one, the Anti-Christ of the occult. Dark
are the ways and many the byways of Baphomet and his Black
Magic followers in their use and misuse of Divine power in its de­
scending and inverted aspect, as is so aptly told in the early Jewish
and Christian scriptures in the symbolical and mystical account of
the Fall of Lucifer.
TH E CHIEF AND HIS FIRST DEPUTY CHIEF
The sign or insignia used by Crowley, the Chief, is composed
or made up of eleven (11) crosses. The similar sign or insignia
used by L ewis is composed or made up of nine (9) crosses, which
raises the important and the pertinent question: Is Lewis the hirst
Deputy to Crowley? Is he first in the order of succession to his
Secret Chief, and do the respective seals or insignia of Crowley
and Lewis so indicate? Verily, they do. That is the story told
and the truth revealed by their respective seals or insignia. To
illustrate the point and to make the revelation clear, we have made
enlarged diagrams of the respective seals or insignia of Crowley
and Lewis, as shown on their respective pictures (Reproductions
Nos. 31 and 30
1
i, as follows:
1 |
+
1
1
1
I 1
1 1
1
|
1 1
j 1
----------------- r
+
Seal
1
Crowi.
1 1
ey Seal L ewis
The large diagram on the left is a correct representation of the
Crowley seal, his sign or symbol of Baphomet, the insignia of the
93
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
Chief of the Black Cult of the O. T. O. The large diagram on the
right is a correct representation of the Lewis seal, the indicating
sign of his close connection with Baphomel, the insignia of the hirst
Deputy Chief of the Black Cult of the O. T O. The Pirst Deputy
may lawfully use and does properly use an insignia very similar,
strikingly similar, to the insignia of his Chief, to indicate and show
that he is of the same order as his Chief, and also to indicate and
show that he is first in line of succession. Yet he may not lawfully
use the insignia of his Chief. When Lewis succeeds Crowley, his
Chief, all that remains necessary for him to do with reference to
his present insignia to make it the insignia of the Chief is to con­
nect the two crosses above the long central horizontal line by a
short horizontal line and also and likewise to connect the two
crosses below said long central horizontal line and— lo and behold
—the Lewis insignia of the First Deputy Chief becomes the in­
signia of the Chief! T ry i t . Draw the two short horizontal lines
as indicated and described above and note the result. The Lewis
insignia becomes the Crowley insignia— the sign and symbol of
Bapliomet, the A n t i -Ch r is t .
Can you read the meaning of the seal and insignia as told in the
story of the pictures? Is the truth revealed to you?
HIS JOURNEY TO THE EAST
In the Year A. D. 1909
In his then official organ, The American Rosae Crncis, February
issue, 1916 (the same issue in which he published his aforesaid
picture), on page 16, Mr. Lewis tells us that:
. . . in 1909 our Master [meaning himself]
journeyed to France a n d England to complete his
Italics ours. preparation for the Ros-.w-crucian work— which al­
ways seemed to be his goal— and he was given sev­
eral honors and titles by the h rench R. C. Order
and one [Im perator?] by the English O rder.”
[W hich Order— O. T . O. or A .-. A .-. ?]
It will be remembered that Aleister Crowley had fabricated and
launched his A. .-. A. .-. shortly prior to 1909, and that in 1909
he was quite active in London. Mr. Postel says that Lewis went
to London in 1909, where he received an initiation. Mr. Lewis
admits that he was in England in 1909 and that the English Order
94
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
gave him one title. A meager, yet significant, admission.
TIIE TITLE OF IMPERATOR
Where did Mr. Lewis get the title of Imperator? Did he as­
sume it or was it conferred upon him— and, if so, by whom? Was
it conferred upon him by Crowley? Was that the one title con­
ferred by the English Order ? Perhaps. The title of Imperator is
a title used in A. . •. A. . ■., of which the O. T. O. is a part. There
are Imperators in Crowley’s realm of Black Magic. In the March
issue, 1909, of T he E q u in o x , Vol. I, No. 1, facing page 17, it is
declared and published that A . . -. A..-, publications in Class B
are issued by order of several dignitaries or officers, among them:
“O. V. S. 6° = 5° Im p e r a t o r .” We reproduce the declaration and
announcement above referred to, a facsimile, as follows:
A . •. A . •. Publication in Class B.
Issued by order:
D.D.S. 7° = 40 Premonstrator
O.S.V. 6° = 50 Imperator
N.S.F. 50 = 6° Cancellarius
T H E BLACK BOOK
The Self-Made Charter
In his first Authentic (?) History of A. M. 0. R. C. (he wrote
and published three authentic (?) histories of the R. C. Order;
none of them alike, all equally unauthentic), Mr. Lewis tells us, in
the American Rosae Crucis, July issue, 1916, page 11, that:
. . During 1913, I was devoted to the prepara­
tion of the necessary 'first papers,' by the large, il­
luminated charter to be signed by the select Coun­
cillors, and the first ‘Black Book,’ which I had to
design, letter and bind myself, not being permitted
to have any matter pass from my hands before the
Order was established.”
M A D E H IS O W N C H A R T E R
What— no charter? Yes, that is correct. Having none, he
95
Italics ours.
Made his own
Charter and
Black Book.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
made one. It was under and by virtue of the pretended and spuri­
ous authority of his manufactured, self-executed charter that he
fabricated A. M. O. R. C. in 1915 and launched it under a stolen
Rosicrucian title with plagiarized lessons and teachings. It now
appears— conclusively, we believe— that Mr. Lewis had and pos­
sessed no authority from any organization or from any source
whatever, to organize or operate A. M. O. R. C. until he received
his O. T. O. charter (his “Important Document No. 4") in 1921,
issued by Aleister Crowley— his Black Secret Chief— or by and
under his direction and authority. Therefore, it also appears that
A. M. O. R. C. was a clandestine O. T. O. organization from 1915
to 1921, until its Imperator received his (). 1'. O. charter as afore­
said. All of this may be a shocking revelation to the present and
more recent members of A. M. O. R. C. These facts were well
known to the first and earlier members, many of whom denounced
the whole A. M. O. R. C. scheme as being spurious and vicious;
all of whom promptly severed their connections. This is substan­
tiated, as you will recall, by the charges of certain early members
that their lessons were plagiarized, copied from certain books,
among them Crowley’s Tm E q u in o x , as appears from “ The Im­
perator's Challenge." reproduced herein {Reproduction No. 1).
M A D E H IS O W N BLACK BOOK
Mr. Lewis had to make his own “Black Book”— had to “design,
letter and bind” his own symbol of Black Magic. It was, indeed,
very inconsiderate of Crowley, his Secret Chief, not to furnish him
with a Black Book, properly designed and lettered. But Black
Magicians are that way. Still, after all, there may have been a
valid reason, a sufficient justification for Crowley not giving him a
Black Book. You see, Crowley did not give him a charter until
1921. Perhaps he was not entitled to have a Crowley Black Book
in 1913. Well, anyway, he made one for himself, just as he made
his charter, his lessons and the Rosicrucian name for his organiza­
tion, and just as he made A. M. O. R. C. a Rosicrucian Order with­
out right, justification or authority.
Whether he had any authority from Crowley prior to 1921 to
oiganize and operate A. M. O. R. C. may be more or less doubtful.
It all depends on the view you take of the evidence. However, it
is certain that Mr. Lewis contacted Crowley in London in 1909;
that he was admitted into his (Crowley’s) Black Cult, and that he
96
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
learned all about Imperalors and Black Books from him, all of
which corroborates the story of the pictures of the intimate connec­
tions between the Imperalor and Baphomet, his Secret Chief.
REMAINING DOUBT
If there still remains a lingering doubt of Mr. Lewis’ close con­
nection and intimate relations with Aleister Crowley and the
O. T. ()., prepare to have it completely and finally expelled as we
introduce, by leave of Mr. Lewis’ confession, his Secret Chief of
the O. T. O.
H IS SECRET C H IE F OF T H E 0 . T. O.
G R A T E FU L L Y A N D D U LY A C K N O W L E D G E D
By M r. Lewis
T
n the early part of 1934, Mr. M. Carl renewed his accusation
of Mr. Lewis’ wrongful use of the seal, or a close imitation of the
seal of the Collegium Pansophicuvi. There was considerable cor­
respondence on this subject. On February 11, 1934, Mr. M. Carl
wrote Mr. Lewis as follows:
“I have before me your letter of June 15, 1933,
in which you write partly as follows:
t “ ‘However, your letter to me gives me the proper
answers to the questions, and I assure you that un­
less some new or different campaign is started
against A. M. O. R. C.. we shall say nothing fur­
ther in our magazines about Pansophia, for all of
our ,members have been advised sufficiently, and it
is not our desire to keep up an attitude of criticism
one way or the other regarding any of the other
organizations.’
-‘I have before me also ‘A Treasure Chest Mes­
sage,’ consisting of eight printed pages, which has
to do with A. M. O. R. C. and which on the second
page exhibits an imitation of the seal of the Col­
legium Pansophicum.
“Will you explain by which authority you are
using a fac-simile of the seal of the Collegium Pan­
sophicum, so close as to mislead, and if you have no
authority, how do you reconcile your present act
with the statement made in the above abstract from
your letter?
Agreed to abstain.
Violated promise.
Treasure Chest
Message.
Demands explanation.
97
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
“I await your answer in the course of the mail.”
The seal in question and under discussion in this correspondence
is the first seal from the right, shown upon Mr. Lewis' O. I . O.
charter— his “Important Document No. 4” (Reproduction
No. 20).
On February 16, 1934, Mr. Lewis replied to the above-quoted
letter. From Mr. Lewis’ long letter of explanation, we quote two
essential paragraphs relevant to the subject we are here discussing.
Note closely that on page 2 of his letter Mr. Lewis says:
“. . . However, I do want to call your attention to
the fact that in 1921, when the Supreme Hierophant
of the Hermetic Fraternity and Rosicrucian Order,
as well as T H E SEC RET C H IE F OF T H E
0 . T. 0 . and the Oriental Pansophius G R A N T E D
A C H A R T E R TO M E A N D T O A. M . O.
R. C., and which charter has been photographed and
reproduced, acknowledged and endorsed in a num­
ber of international conventions of Rosicrucians and
other esoteric orders in Europe, that document
signed and sealed in Basle, Switzerland, contained
in its border among the many other official seals the
very seal which you now claim is strictly the exclu­
sive property of your organization. And in the con­
stitutional rules and regulations sent to me and in
the correspondence sent to me along with that char­
ter, and in a printed magazine issued by the Su­
preme Hierophant in Germany, Austria, and other
countries in the year 1921, the term Pansophia is
referred to as a division of the Rosicrucian studies
and work and not as a separate school or a separate
organization.” (See facsimile Reproduction
No. 32.)
H IS C H A R TER A N D SOURCE OF A U T H O R IT Y
FROM O. T. O.
There is no longer any question or doubt about it. Mr. Lewis
tells us, in no uncertain terms, that t i -
ip; Se c r et C h ie f of t h e
, O. T. O. granted to him (Lewis) and to A. M. O. R. C. the charter
q 1921, being his Important Document No. 4 (our Reproduction
Ao. 20). It also appears that he relies upon this charter as the
source of his alleged 71ermelic and Rosicrucian authority, as well
98
Capital italics ours.
The Secret Chief of
the O. T. O. granted
charter to M r. Lewis
and A. M. O. R. C.
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
as for his O. T. O. authority. We follow Mr. Lewis with intense
and profound interest to page 3 of the same letter, where he tells us:
“. . . I shall send a copy of your letter and a copy of
this reply to the present Se c r e t C h i e f o r H ie r o ­
p h a n t o f THE O. T. 0 . and the Hermetic Brother­
hood and Rosicrucian Fraternity in Europe and ask
that 1 be given some information regarding the his­
tory of the seal in question, and perhaps some day I
may he able to enlighten you upon its origin and its
genuine authority.” (See facsimile Reproduction
No. 32).
T H E SECRET C H IE F OR H IE R O P H A N T OF T H E
O. T. O. A N D T H E H E R M E T IC B R O T H E R H O O D
A N D R O SIC R U C IA N F R A T E R N IT Y
Astounding, presumptuous and arrogant as it is for Aleister
Crowley, the notorious Black Magician, to claim authority from or
to assert authority over organizations of While Magic, such as
the Hermetic Brotherhood and/or the Rosicrucian Fraternity, it is
nevertheless very interesting and most important to us— for Mr.
Lewis to make known— TO ADMIT, that Aleister Crowley is the
Secret Chief or Hierophant of the particular alleged and spurious
Hermetic body, and is the Secret Chief or Hierophant of the par­
ticular, alleged and spurious Rosicrucian body from which he
(Lewis) and his organization (A. M. O. R. C.) received their al­
leged and spurious Hermetic and/or Rosicrucian authority.
THE ENIGMA OF “IMPERATOR” LEWIS’ ALLEGED
ROSICRUCIAN AUTHORITY IS SOLVED. THE TRUE
SOURCE AND NATURE OF HIS ACTUAL AUTHORITY
IS KNOWN
Since the year 1915, when Mr. Lewis first became active with
his fabricated and spurious Rosicrucian organization, for which
organization he then and there fabricated and plagiarized a Rosi­
crucian name, viz: The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis
—A. M. O. R. C.— with the willful intent to deceive and to mislead
the public and sincere seekers of the Rosy Cross into the false be­
lief that A. M. O. R. C. was a genuine and authentic Rosicrucian
organization; he has, in fact, actually and literally deceived, misled
and defrauded thousands of well-meaning and sincere seekers of
Lewis duly
acknowledges and
consults the“Secret
Chief of O. T . O .”
99
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
the Upward Path and the Rosy Cross.
HAS MADE MANY CONFLICTING CLAIMS
AS TO HIS AUTHORITY
Since that time and during the intervening years, Mr. Lewis has
from time to time made many different and widely varying incon­
sistent and conflicting claims as to the nature and the source of his
alleged, pretended and spurious Rosicrucian authority and, like­
wise, as to the nature and the source of his teachings of the A. M.
O. R. C. lessons.
WE HAVE THE PROOF OF THE ABOVE
STATEMENT
We have collected and could set forth in deadly parallels and
juxtaposition the numerous different and conflicting published state­
ments of Mr. Lewis, as above mentioned, to the astonishment and
for the amusement of those who do not fully and truly know the
real Tmperatorof A. M. O. R. C, if space would permit. However,
it would be useless, as well as a waste of space, time and effort to
do so, in view of the proof herein presented, fully and completely
corroborated and affirmed by Mr. Lewis’ declaration and confes­
sion as to the actual origin, the true nature and the real source of
authority.
NOW THE WHOLE TRUTH BECOMES KNOWN
None Need Be Deceived
By the documentary evidence herein presented, fully corrobo­
rated and positively affirmed by the written declaration, confession
and admission of Mr. Lewis contained and set forth in his letter to
M. Carl (facsimile Reproduction No. 32), it is absolutely proven
— established to a certainty and demonstrated beyond the shadow
of a doubt— that Mr. Lewis, the Tmperator of A. M. O. R. C.,
never had and does not now possess any authentic Rosicrucian au­
thority; that the only alleged, pretended, false, illegitimate and so-
called Rosicrucian authority which he has or ever has had was
granted to and conferred upon him by Aleister Crowley, the no­
toriously Black Secret Chief, fabricator and founder of the equally
notorious Black Cult of the O. T. O., who, himself in his own right,
had and could confer no real or genuine Rosicrucian authority, and
100
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C U N f f E C T I O N S
that the only autliority which Mr. Lewis has or ever has had, au­
thorizing his A. M. O. R. C. activities, is the authority of the cor­
rupt, immoral, pernicious and vicious O. T. O.— O rdo T e m p i.i
O r ie n t is — conferred upon him by his Secret Chief, A leister
C r o w l e y , the most notorious and the most despised Black Ma­
gician of this age. Therefore, it follows, as the night follows the
day, that A. M. O. R. C. is not a Hose Cross Order. Indeed, it is
not Rosicrucian in any sense or in any of the varied degrees of the
true significance of that sublime and august Name.
LIMITED SPACE PREVENTS PRESENTATION
OF ALL THE PROOF
We regret that the limited space of this brochure does not per­
mit us here and now to make full and complete proof of all the
facts, to demonstrate to an absolute certainty that Mr. Lewis has
pilfered, plagiarized, filched, taken, lifted and copied much of the
so-called secret teachings of A. M. O. R. C.— many of his lessons
and lectures from published books; they are not secret at all; that
he has made, manufactured and fabricated other teachings, lessons,
lectures and rituals of A. M. O. R. C.— they are a synthetic com­
pound of many things from many sources, containing a few wise
things, most of them otherwise— and that none of the lessons, lec­
tures, rituals or teachings of A. M. O. R. C. are, in any sense or in
any way, Rosicrucian secret teachings. In truth and in fact they are
not from Rosicrucian sources. However, sufficient has been shown
of the pilfering charlatanism of the Imperator of A. M. O. R. C.
to put all prudent persons on notice; to advise all sincere seekers of
the Rosy Cross or Secret Schools of White Magic to beware, and
to cause all members of A. M. O. R. C. to investigate— fully in­
vestigate— that they may not be further deceived or longer misled
by the cunning duplicity, the subtle guile, the insidious sophistry, the
crafty artifice, the quibbling mockery, the double-dealing treachery
and the fraudulent imposition of their Imperator.
IT MUST BE CONCLUDED THAT A. M. O. R. C.
TEACHINGS ARE NOT ROSICRUCIAN
TEACHINGS
If perchance you are an overzealous follower of Mr. Lewis and
idolize your Imperator; if you are under the magic spell of the
101
A B O A S T F U L , PI L F 1■R I N G I M P E R A T O R
black art of his deception and cannot throw it off; if you are so
blinded by prejudice that you cannot and will not see the truth when
presented ;if you still believe, in spite of the proof herein presented,
showing that your Imperator copied many of your lessons and much
of your secret teachings from published books not Rosicrucian at
all; if you still believe that your teachings are the authentic Rosi­
crucian teachings and that your Imperator has made you a Rosicru­
cian, then you are beyond the pale of salvation, and there is no help
for you.
However, even though you are a member of A. M. O. R. C., if
you are reasonable, notwithstanding any doubt you may have as to
the sufficiency of the proof we have presented to show that the
A. M. O. R. C. lessons were copied and pilfered from books, you
must conclude as a matter of reason, as a matter of simple logic and
common sense, that the teachings and lessons given by Mr. Lewis
are not— cannot be—genuine teachings of the Rosicrucians, the
teachings of holy White Magic. Because Mr. Lewis is a follower
of Crowley, the Black Magician, a member of the O. T. ()., and
holds a charter issued out of 0. T. Q., under and by authority of
Ba p h o m e t , his Secret Chief. Now, since Black Magicians do not
and will not teach White Magic, it must be concluded that the teach­
ings of the Imperator of A. M. O. R. C. are not and cannot be the
White Magic teachings— the holy doctrines of the Rosy Cross.
WE SUBMIT THE RECORDS
In the sacred names of all esoteric Societies, Orders and Frater­
nities of the White Brotherhood that teach the higher aspect of the
law; on behalf of the exoteric Church and all allied institutions that
point to the Cross on Calvary and fight with might and main the
perfidious doctrines of the Anti-Christ; on behalf of all who believe
in moral rectitude, common decency and Christian ethics, and for
the protection of society and the general welfare of mankind, we
submit the record, that all may be advised and act accordingly.
MEMBERS OF A. M. O. R. C„ YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
IS GREAT. WILL YOU RISE TO THE NECESSITIES
OF THE OCCASION?
Members of A. M. O. R. C., even though you have been im­
posed upon, deceived and defrauded; although you have done so
102
1
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
innocently and unwittingly, yet nevertheless you have supported,
encouraged and aided your Imperator in his pilfering, plagiarizing
charlatanism, you have silently acquiesced in his conducting the
affairs of your order since 1921 under the authority of a charter
from the O. T. O., issued by or under the direction of Ba p iio m e t ,
the A n t i -C h rist. Y ou are now informed by your Imperator, by
his bold declaration and written confession, contained in his letter
to M. Carl herein made public and available to you, advising you
that the Secret Chief of your Imperator is none other than Aleister
Crowley, founder of the ill-famed O. T. O., the notorious Black
Magician— Ba p h o m e t — t h e A n t i -Ch r is t . You have been ad­
vised by your Imperator in thousands of advertisements, broadcast
throughout the land, that yours is no longer a Christian order or a
religious organization; that A. M. O. R. C. is anti-religious—
therefore, A n t i -Ch r is t . The intention, the purpose, the objective
of your Imperator to convert your order into an A n t i -Christ or­
ganization, to openly, boldly place it under the Black Hag of
O. T. O. under the jurisdiction of Ba p iio m e t , the A n t i -Ch r is t ,
and within the unholy and detestable realms of Black Magic, must
be apparent to you beyond the twilight of all conjecture.
M embers of A. M. O. R. C., will you stand idly by and permit
this to be done? Or will you, in your indignation, rise in your
might, drive the money-changers from your temple and, for the
good of society, for the benefit of your fellow-men, for the salva­
tion of your souls— in the name of common decency, will you not
deal the death blow to this insidious, this vicious scheme and plan
of your Imperator? Will you not make it impossible for Black
Magic to exist in this Christian land? Will you not make Amer­
ica safe for White Magic?
The record is before you— the verdict is yours— so, also, the
responsibility.
I 103
i
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 22
S C I E N T I F I C A M E R I C A N 269
THE MYSTERIOUS WORLD
WITHIN YOU
Those strange feelings of intuition and premonition are the urges of
your inner self. Within you there is a world of unlimited power.
This dynamic, strange, mental force is secreted in the recesses
of your mind. Its astonishing helpfulness you sense by an oc­
casional hunch or inspiration. Learn to properly direct and
control it and you can do the RIGHT THING at the RIGHT
TIME, and master your life. V
THIS FREE SEALED BOOK
The Rottcruciani, an age-old brotherhood (not a religion), have shown thou*
lands of men and women how to bring happlneis and achievement into their
live* by the use of theie little-underitood poweri of self. They invite you ^
to write today for the sealed gift book that tells how you may obtein these
startling Teachings for study and use in your daily affairs.
Address; Scribe D.A.Z.
ROSICRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD
i_ i i_ i c______ ^
s a n j o s e ..............C a l i f o r n i a
Remember— 'Die Rosicrucian Order h NOT a Religious Organization
K l i J l. /
l \
This advertisement is reproduced from the Scientific A merican (May, 1935). This
same advertisement is being and recently has been published in hundreds of papers
and magazines. In this manner he has broadcast his propaganda throughout the
width and breadth of the land that his A. M. O. R. C.—his spurious Rosicrucian Order
( n o t t h e r e a l R o s i c r u c i a n O r d e r )—is not a religious organization—not a Christian
order—that it is Anti-Christ. This is preparatory propaganda for the conversion of
A. M. O. R. C. into a Black Cult of the O. T. O.
104
1
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 18
O R D E R OF ORIEN TAL TEMPLARS
M YSTE R IA M YSTICA M A X IM A
PREAMBLE
D u r i n g the last twenty-five years, constantly increasing
numbers of earnest people and seekers after truth have been
turning their attention to the study of the hidden laws of
Nature.
The growth of interest in these matters has been simply
marvellous. Numberless societies, associations, orders,
groups, etc., etc., have been founded in all parts of the
civilized world, all and each following some line of occult
study.
While all these newly organized associations do some
good in preparing the minds of thoughtful people for their
eventually becoming genuine disciples of the One Truth, yet
there is* but ONE ancient organization of Mystics which
shows to the student a Royal Road to discover the One
Truth. This organization has permitted the formation of the
body known as the “ A N C IE N T ORDER OF O R IE N T A L
TE M PLA R S." It is a modern School of Magi. Like
the ancient Schools of Magi it derived its knowledge from
Egypt and Chaldea. This knowledge is never revealed to
vii
Reproduction of a full page from T he Equinox, issued in 1911. T he Equinox was
started in 1909 by Aleister Crowley as the official organ of his various activities. The
A ncient Order of Oriental T emplars was organized by Crowley at that time, 1911.
This order is also known as the Ordo Templi Orirnlis, or by the abbreviation 0. T. O.
Compare with the Lewis "Important Document No. 4." (Reproduction No. 20. See
also 20A.)
105
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 19
T H E E Q U IN O X
The nam es of women m em bers are never divulged.
It is not law ful here to disclose the nam e o f an y living
chief.
It w as K a rl K ellner who revived the exoteric o rgan iza­
tion of the O .T.O . and initiated the plan now happily com­
plete of bringing all occult bodies again under one go v­
ernance.
The letters O .T.O . represent the w ords O rdo Tem pli
O rientis (O rder of the Tem ple of the O rient, or O riental
T em p lars), but they have also a secret m eaning fo r initiates.
3. T he O rder is international, and has existin g branches
in every civilized country of the world.
4. T he aim s of the O .T.O . can only be understood fu lly
by its highest initiates; but it m ay be said openly that it
teaches H erm etic Science or Occult K now ledge, the P u re
and H oly M agick of L igh t, the Secrets of M ystic attain ­
ment, Y o g a of all form s, G nana Y o ga, R a ja Y o g a , B h akta
Y o g a and H atha Y o g a, and all other branches of the secret
W isdom of the Ancients.
In its bosom repose the G reat M ysteries; its brain has re­
solved all the problems of philosophy and of life.
It possesses the secret of the Stone of the W ise, o f the
E lix ir of Im m ortality, and of the U n iversal M edicine.
M oreover, it possesses a Secret capable of realizin g the
world-old dream of the Brotherhood of M an.
It also possesses in every im portant centre o f population
a hidden R etreat (Collegium ad Spiritum Sanctum) w here
m em bers m ay conceal them selves in order to pursue the
G reat W o rk without hindrance.
Page 200 of T he Equinox. Note that in this Constitution of the Ancient Order Ori­
ental Templars the various different names are given, such as O. T. O. and Ordo
Templi Orientis. Compare this with Lewis’ “Important Document No. 4.” (Repro­
duction No. 20.) Note also reference to the retreat: Collegium ad Spiritum Sanctum,
and compare with Lewis’ letterhead (Reproduction No. 21).
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 19A
M A N IF E S T O O F T H E O .T.O .
T hese houses are secret fortresses of Truth, L igh t, Pow er
and L ove, and their position is only disclosed under an oath
of secrecy to those entitled to m ake use of them.
T h ey are also temples of true worship, specially conse­
crated by N ature to bring out of a man all that is best in him.
5. T he authority of the O .T.O . is concentrated in the
O .H .O . (O uter H ead of the O rder), or F rate r Superior.
T h e nam e of the person occupying this office is never dis­
closed except to his im m ediate representatives.
6. The A uthority of the O.H.O. in all English-speaking
countries is delegated by charter to the M ost H oly, Most
Illustrious, M ost Illum inated, and M ost P uissant Baphom et
X ° R e x Sum m us Sanctissim us 3 3 0, 90°, 96°, P ast Grand
M aster of the United States of A m erica, G rand M aster of
Ireland, Iona, and A ll the Britains, G rand M aster of the
K n igh ts of the H oly Ghost, Sovereign G rand Com m ander
of the O rder of the Tem ple, M ost W ise Sovereign of the
O rder of the R osy Cross, G rand Zerubbabel of the Order of
the H o ly R oyal A rch of Enoch, etc. etc. etc., N ational Grand
M aster General ad vitam of the O.T.O.
Pape 201 of T he Equinox. Compare Article VI of this Constitution of the 0. T. O.
with Lewis’ statements in Reproduction No. 20A, which appeared in I he Rosicrucian
Digest, November, 1933, accompanying illustration of "Important Document No. 4 , ”
granted to fl. Spencer Lewis (Reproduction No. 20). Note the many and various titles
and degrees of Crowley. Compare with Lewis’ titles and degrees. Observe that
he claims to be a Sovereign of the Order of the Rosy Cross. Is this the source of
Lewis’ much self-discussed Rosicrucian authority? From Crowley, the Black M a­
gician, the A nti-Christ.
107
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 20
ta ltlm m S a p itm li a t A m o r D o m ia i
M e n t i s
Frafernilas Lucis Hermelicde
SanduariumSupremam e( Sui Juris
Anliqui e( Primilivi Liberorum Sirudorum Rilus de Memphis et Mizraim
(D crhshtm cm M *g*0 O w / ilf C e lcar, C M 21. JtlB M. S9911.
e f e x S*Bhtario Supctrmo diilonniot r l Hibesnlae. CJterla 24. Septem ber 1907. A . D.)
Magnus Oriens Antiqui el Accep'i, 33; Ritus Lalomorum Moris Scotorum
• : ::- i. -
Salutem Nosh-am!
Sciaid ornaes quibro «fvfncrinf:
Nos Alberlus Carolus Teodorus PEREGRINUS S
u
prejm
o
Magus Dirigtns PrkniBvoruin Slrvcionun Rrfoa Aegypboti d« Mem
phis d Mizraim (93!) d
Supremus Magislcr Gerwralis Liberorum Lalom
oom
s, Anliqui c
l Accepti (3
3
t) Ritus Scotorum;
oc Caput d Frater Superior, acJViumu* .Salomeais
Ordinis Templariorum Orientis,
Per ririalrtn jarum Nobis altribaloaum roncedimqa y
trainbut V
en
erabilitaim
ia ■ i f f f ' S M ’f t ’£ < C n /.o . 4 1 , a
/ f a i t at<x*t/'$[*,• At* t. c " V. ,/..»»«* 'it/ Ca>t~rf, •/■M
tt ttj
b*rft. t et, pcriwiasa—irm-iatlituewA n t i f aw m ■
■
</ 7c ti'm
“ t •CKshm laH
aam
n
w
* Noabi Ofdrw
ts nantilH exd ' t t / ( f f _
s trft/ t S . X t, / . / ^ • ' ? ' & c
nq«f "I . K . , , x . &«*/*/ft Pt t eJ
ty*’f*t« *t/
exa ,‘f fa, ’, /// li e n i /*s
/ »iyJ■
■
■r'*
u«
thtno m q ue mi . V/.- / t , . / /* tr J*f r f a t * <• gradam vderb Artia acdificitonaa id
PrwtH.vorum Slm dornw Kilns Arflrplbci de Mcwphja el M ioaim (05“) el Ailiquj el Accept (33) Rilus l^lomnruw
Scolorum. secundum leges atque nlatlia a Nob« inaliluta el ah Ordinc Tempi*norum O rirqlb accrpto
Ib t r prrmisaio el pfteteai diploma si ConWj(u(iooe» <Jp)lui* Tcmpla riorum O rim lu 2J, JiRoan’ 1006, 1017. A- D-.
lardttnlur vd negligualur quocamqar tempore rtvornri polervtl.
C
ujos rei d
ocu
m
etilu
iti h
o
c diplom
a eolplum
. tu
giB
olu
me
t N
oalra m
aau *|h
sceiplu
mm
l.
D
m
ta
m it ,V
u
tiro Saaehiarin/• . . ■J^ O
re ft, /•. . ... tc&
Z~
A1eo«a , K.Ct-t Aamt reroe locitt eg qti corntpoodel
^mro O n U n n J i^ O C // / A. D. / i ? g / .
IM PO R T A N T RO SICRUCIAN D O C U M E N T S, N o. 4
This is the charter which Mr. Lewis says the Secret Chief of 0. T. O. granted to
him and to A. M. 0. R. C. (See his letter, R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 3 2 . ) Compare with
Crowley’s O. T. O. announcements ( R e p r o d u c t i o n s N o s . 19 a n d 1 9 . 1 ) . Note and re­
member the seals, especially the third seal from left, the 0. T. 0. seal. See also Lewis’
description of this document ( R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 2 0 A ) .
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 20A
IMPORTANT ROSICRUCIAN DOCUMENTS, No. 4
The above is a photograph of a large document engraved at Lucerne, Switzerland, on heavy parchment
paper and issued by the Supreme Magus and Prater Superior of the ancient Roslcrucian Order for Switzer­
land and Germany and dated in the ancient Rosicrucian Sovereign Sanctuary at Basle, Switzerland, in the
name of the ancient order of mystery temples of the Orient and in the name of the Ancient and Primitive
Oriental and Mystery Rites of Memphis and Mizraim, Egypt. The Sovereign Sanctuary of Switzerland
and Germany, a continually operating Rosicrucian center of Europe, confers upon H. Spencer Lewis, Im-
perator of the Rosicrucian Order of America, the 3S, 90. and 95 degrees of the Egyptian Mystery Rites
of Memphis and Mizraim and the 7th or last degree of the Chivalric Order of Oriental Templars, anti
appoints him as an honorary member of the Sovereign Sanctuaries of Switzerland, Germany, and Austria
and the Supreme Council of AMORC in California as a "gage of amity." It is dated Basle, July, 1921.
and contains many Rosicrucian seals and emblems, some of which are not clear or distinct in the above
photograph. This charter is the only one ol its kind ever issued for North America and Includes certain
powers, authorities, and privileges which have not yet been exercised by the Imperator of AMORC in
North America
Reproduced from T he Rosicrucian Digest, November, 1933
Being Mr. Lewis’ description of his Crowley charter from O. T. O. appearing be­
neath the facsimile of the charter or document w
rhich he published in November
Digest, 1933 (Reproduction No. 20). This is his second description of this document.
The first, which we have quoted, appeared in T he T riangle, No. 6, page 1
, Septem­
ber 29, 1921. After giving different descriptions and some misleading descriptions of
this document, he now tells us that it is a charter that the Secret Chief of the O. T. O.
granted to him and A. M. O. R. C. in 1921 (see his letter, Reproduction No. 32).
Thus, by his admission and confession, does he connect himself and A. M. O. R. C.
with Crowley, notorious Black Magician, and his O. T. O., a despised Black Cult of
the Black Brotherhood (see also Reproductions Nos. 19 and 19A).
109
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 21
(^Collegium ad Spiritum Sanctum, F. R. C.
Grand College of Rites
Supreme Council
SSSSfJf ORDINIS ROSAE avrea! CRVCIS
Valley of North America
A M O R C TEMPLE. Roiicruciin Park, San Jos*. California
iM
T
iR
N
A
tiO
M
A
t C
aili Annan*i ^"AM
ORCO"
IhtiamaTiomal Radio S
tA
tiO
**: 6K2
Greetings:
Know all men that I, H. Spencer Lewis,
Imperator of the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis
of North America, and Bishop of the Pristine Church
of the Rose Cross incorporated in the State of Cali­
fornia, do hereby make, appoint, constitute and or­
dain E. E. Thomas a priest of the Pristine Church of
the Rose Cross, with p o rter and full authority to per­
form such ecclesiastical ceremonies and other offices
pertaining to a duly qualified priest of the Pristine
Church of the Rose Cross.
x. Witnessed by my hand this day of our Lord,
6 — „ ln the san°tum of the Pris-
tT i
e Churcn 'of Vhe „ i® Cross, San Jose, California.
This reproduction contains much meat—l o o m u c h . Under Crowley’s h i d d e n r e t r e a t
(see R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 1 9 ) , C o l l e g i u m a d S p i r i t u m S a n c t u m , the Imperator of A. M.
O. R. C., working under an O. T. O. charter and as a Bishop who recognizes Crowley,
the notorious B a p h o m e t , the A n ti-Christ, as his S e c r e t C h i e f , ordains a Priest of the
Pristine Church of the C r o w l e y B l a c k C r o s s —miscalled Rose Cross (see R e p r o d u c t i o n
N o . 2 2 ) .
I L
/ /
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 23
T he Crowi.ey Black Cross, reproduced from T he Equinox of March, 1910. It is
the G r a n d S y m b o l o f a l l b is B l a c k M a g i c a c t i v i t i e s . Mr. Lewis attempted to file this
same Crowley Black Cross in Pennsylvania as the emblem or insignia of A. M. O.
R. C. (see R e p r o d u c t i o n s N o s . 24 a n d 2 4 .-1 ). He also uses it in connection with his
A. M. O. R. C. activities (see R e p r o d u c t i o n N o . 2 5 ) .
I l l
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 24
E COKMONWK.tid'd OP PENNSYLVARIA j
e with the requirement* o f an Act o f the
e Commonwealth o f Pennsylvania e n title d , "An
reg istra tio n and proteetlon o f the names,
ns, deooratlons, charms, emblems, ro settes
a ssociation s, lodges, orders, fratern al
a o o leties or fratern al and b e n e fic ia l so c ie tie s
r ic a l, m ilitary or veterans organ isation s,
n, federation or any other a o eiety , organiza­
tio n or association, degree, branch, subordinate lodge or au xiliary
thereof to prohibit the wearing, exh ib ition , d isp la y or use of the
tame by any person not en titled to wear, e * lb lt , d isp lay or use the
same and fixin g a penalty for the v io la tio n of th is Act", approved
the 5th day of May, A. D. 1927, the undersigned lod ge, the p rin cip les
and a o tlv ltlea of which are not repugnant to the C onstitution and
laws of the United States of th is Commonwealth, d esirin g to reg ister
an emblem in the O ffice o f the Secretary o f the Connonwealth, for
the purposes provided for In said Aot, does hereby c e r tify ;
1, The name of the lodge so r e g isterin g is The Supreme
Orand Lodge of the Anolent and M ystical Order Rosae Crucla.
2 , Its address, location or place o f business Is 223
Dan D rive, Mt. Lebanon S tation , P ittsb u fg, Pennsylvania,
3, The emblem to be registered , two fa csim iles or
duplicates of which aooompany th is application, co n sists of a rose
and a oroas design and c a isla ts of a large oroas containing designs
with a small rosy cross In the center of the larger cross with
various deslgna enclroled about i t . In eaoh arm of the cross la a
trian gle design with various other designs and le tte r in g of ancient
h is to r ic a l ori$>.
An attempt to legally register Crowley’s Black Cross as the emblem of A. M. 0.
R. C. (Application concluded in R e p r o d u c l '. o n N o . 2 4 A . )
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 24A
TH
K 8UPRKM
E G
RAND LODGE OP IHE
AHCIEHT A
M
D MYSTICAL ORDER ROSAE
CR
O
C18j
Preaidant
"Secretary
STATE OP CALIFORNIA, )
) as.
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA.)
Peraonally .appeared before me, thla 14th day o f A pril,
1934, RALPH ki, LEWIS, who, being duly aworn, or affirm ed, according
to law, depoaea and aaya that he la secretary of the Supreme Grand
Lodge of the Ancient and M ystical Order Roaae Crucls and that the
statem ents contained in the foregoing instrument are true; that the
lodge so f ilin g such emblem has a righ t to wear, ertilb it, display
or use the same for it s benefit and on behalf of a ll a ssociation s,
degrees, branohes, subordinate lodges and a u x ilia ries o f said lodge
and thp individual members and those hereafter to become members
there of throughout th is Commonwealth, and that no other association ,
lodge, order, so ciety , organization, union, foundation, federation,
degree, branch, subordinate lodge or auxiliary thereof nor the
individual members thereof has a right to wear, ex h ib it, display or
use the same eith er in the id en tica l fora or in any such near
resemblance thereto as may be
sa id .
Subscribed and sworn
of Santa Clara, State of C alifornia
M
y Commission expires Dec. 30, 1937
II. Spencer Lewis, president, signs the application, and Ralph M. Lewis, secretary,
swears that the Crowley Black Cross is an emblem of A. M. C
). R. C. and that it has
the r i g h t to u s e it.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 25
Reproduction of the insignia from the inside cover of the T reasure C hest M essage
used by Mr. Lewis in his campaign for special students and special contributions
among the fourth degree members of A. M. O. R. C. It is the Crowley Black Cross,
a grand insignia of the Black Cult of the 0. T. O. and all of Crowley’s Black Magic
activities.
114
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 26
D ' E G Y P T E
et G R A N D ORI ENT
GARANT d’AMITY des ADEPTS R+C
BE IT KNOWN TO ALL:
That the Baloved Adept whose signature is inscribed below has been inducted into the Fourth
Grade of the universal rites of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood. Therefore, the said Adept is recorded
in our Archives as an Affiliated Member of the AMENHOTEP LODGE originally instituted in the
Temple of Luxor in the Valley of the Nile, and is entitled to all of the benefits and considerations
guaranteed to such affiliated members by virtue of their registration in this Sanctuary.
Pouryt^ )miivrainSanthiatre.
____ __
-J
£
jitr*i
J f r c / i i u i i t
'.ft A iyM fam j/ iS < y td tp j
Reproduction of the certificate from the back cover of T he T reasure Chest
M essage. Note particularly that it is signed under the Seal of Baphomet (see Repro­
duction No. 31, Crowley’s signature on his picture) by a Grand M aster ad Vitam,
33°-950, showing direct connection with Crowley’s Black Magic activities.
115
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 27
THE EQUINOX
T H E O F F I C I A L O R G A N O F T H E A . ‘ .A.*.
Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.
Love is the law, love under will.
The word of the law is
T H E O F F I C I A L O R G A N O F T H E O .T .O .
est
T H E R E V I E W O F S C I E N T I F I C I L L U M I N I S M
The method of Science; the aim of Religion.
An X V V o l . III. No. I. O in f
M A R C H M C M X I X E .V .
T H E U N I V E R S A L P U B L I S H I N G C O M P A N Y
D E T R O I T , M I C H I G A N
I i t l e j a T e o f T h e Equinox. N o t e t h e i n s i g n i a o r s e a l o f 0 . T . O . in c e n t e r o f p a g e ,
t h e t h i r d s e a l o n I m p o r t a n t D o c u m e n t ( Reproduction No. 20) a n d t h e s a m e i n s i g n i a
u s e d b y L e w i s f o r A. M . O . R. C . - C a t h e d r a l of the Soul ( Reproduction No. 29).
FACSIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 32
Page 8
r
/V February 19,
country and otter countries.
X do not know how closely the seal to which you refer resembles
the one you claim belongs to the Collegium Pansophlcum, for I have
not taken the pains to hunt up any of your records, correspondence,
or documents to make any comparison between this seal and the one
you claim belongs to your organization and which may appear on
some of your literature.
However, I do want to call your attention to the fact that In
1981 when the Supreme Hierophant of the Hermetic Fraternity and
Roslcrudan Order as well as the seoret chief of the O.T.O. and ■
“
the Oriental P.nsophlus granted a charter to me and to AMORC, and
which charter has been photographed and reproduced, acknowledged,
and Indorsed In a number of International conventions of Roslcru-
clane and other esoteric orders In Europe, that document, signed
and sealed In Basle,-Switzerland, contained In Its border among
the many other official seals, the very seal which you now claim
Is strictly the exclusive property of your organization. And In
the constitutional rules and regulations sent to me and In the cor­
respondence sent to me along with that charter, and In a printed
magazine issued by the Supreme Hierophant In Germany, Austria, and
other countries In the year 1981, the term Paneophla Is referred to
as a division of the Roslcruclan studies and irork and not as a
separate school or a separate organization.
I shall send a oopy of your letter and a oopy of this reply to
the present Secret Chief or Hierophant of the O.T.O. and Hermetin
Brotherhood and Roslcruclan Fraternity In EUbope and ask lhat”l"b'e
given some Information regarding the history of the seal In question
and perhaps some day I may be able to enlighten you upon Its origin
and Its genuine authority.
I trust you realize that your intimation that the Roslcruclan
Brotherhood has "copied* the seal of your organization Is an error
of Judgment on your part and that our organization le not attempting
to mislead anyone In any way In regard to these matters, especially
since no reference Is made to Pansophla as a school or system of
study In any literature Issued by us or any part of the Roslcruclan
organization throughout the world In recent years.
If we have made any error In connection with Pansophla at all,
the error was made In placing our faith In the claims made by Hr.
Tranker for hie newly formed Pansophla Society, and In our enthusiastic
expression of good-will In offering to assist him In getting his or­
ganization started In Germany. It was unfortunate indeed that we
published any statement regarding his organization and put ourselves
on record as having Indorsed his original plans, which, by the way,
have not been carried out but have been turned and modified to our
disadvantage.
HSLsDD
The Confession of the Imperator of A. M. O. R ■C.
Reproduction of parts of pages 2 and 3 of Lewis’ letter to M. Carl. Here is Lewis
confession that he is operating A. M. O. R. C. under a Charter from the O. 1. "
and that Crowley is his Secret Chief— the last link in the chain ot the absolute anci
positive proof of our charges.
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 28
To bo obtained of
T H E EQ U IN O X, 15 Tavistock Street, W .C .
A n d through a lt "Bookstllers
Crown 8vo, Scarlet Buckram, pp. 64
T his Edition strictly lim ited to 5 0 0 C op ies
P R IC E 10s.
A A.*.
PUBLICATION IN CLASS B.
BOOK
777
CROWLEY’S BOOK 777
We reproduce the advertisement of Crowley's Book 777 from T he Equinox, Vol.
?, page ? — ?— issue. Book or Liber 777 deals with the dangerous vibrations of
Black Magic. Mr. Lewis has placed the A. M. O. R. C.-Cathedral of the Soul under
the dangerous vibrations of Liber 777—Crowley's symbol of the insidious vibrations
of Black Magic and its precarious arts and damnable practices. See cover page of
the Lewis Cathedral of the Soul (Reproduction No. 29).
C O M P A R E W IT H O P P O SIT E P A G E
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTION No. 29
Lewis is operating the A. M. O. R. C.-Cathedral of the Soul under the seal and
insignia of the Black Cult of the O. T. O. and the insidious Crowley vibrations of
Liber 777. Note the 0. T. O. insignia and seal. (See Reproductions Nos. 20-27 and
28. Compare carefully. Convince yourself.)
118
I
...........................................................................................................................................................
APPENDIX
ROSICRUCIAN FOUNDATION
The Foundation was instituted several years ago as a special re­
search and investigating body of the August Fraternity. Its func­
tion is to make careful research into the history of the Brotherhood,
to collect and make a compendium of all Rosicrucian authorities
and to compile and index all Rose Cross literature, authentic and
unauthentic, for ready reference and instant use. Among its other
functions and uses, it performs the important work of making full
investigation into the claims of all persons and organizations using
Rosicrucian names and appellations and claiming or asserting Rosi­
crucian authority. The collection of the documentary evidence
produced in this brochure and the research in connection therewith
was the work of The Rosicrucian Foundation.
USE OF NAME IS LEGALLY RESERVED
TO THE AUTHENTIC FRATERNITY
The name has been fully protected and its exclusive use reserved
to the authentic Rosicrucian F'raternity by registration according
to law in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Penn­
sylvania, January 16, 1935; in the office of the Secretary of the
State of New Jersey, October 29, 1934, and in the office of the
Secretary of the State of California, March 20, 1935. Its insignia
were registered in the United States Patent Office on August
28, 1934.
THE CONFEDERATION OR FRATERNITY
OF INITIATES
The exclusive use of the title, The Confederation or Fraternity
of Initiates, has been reserved and its exclusive use protected by
U. S. copyrights issued in July, 1929. Copies of the certificates of
copyright are reproduced, evidencing the truth of this statement
(our Reproductions Nos. 33 and 34). This prevents and legally
120
W I T II B L A C K M A G 11 C O N N E C T I O N S
prohibits the use in the United States of translation into foreign
languages.
The French title (The Confederation or Fraternity of Initiates,
translated into the French language), to wit: La Federation Uni-
verselle des Orderes, Societes el Fraternities des Initiates—the /
name of the international organization or body— has been and is ✓
fully protected by American and international copyrights. The
French name of the international body and the English name of the
American body or branch has also been protected by registration
according to law in the States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey and
California.
AN ATTEMPT TO UNLAWFULLY USE THE NAME
■ OF SAID INTERNATIONAL BODY
In his official organ, the Rosirrucian Digest, November, 1934,
beginning on page 375, Mr. Lewis gives an account of the organiza­
tion of an international body of “Initiates” on August 14, 1934,
and describes its first conclave and the organization of the Confed­
eration at that time.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS GIVEN
Mr. Lewis and his foreign associates have wrongfully and il­
legally attempted to use the name of our international body, La
Federation JJniuerselle des Orderes, Societes et Fraternities des
Initiates, or a name deceptively similar, as the name of their newly *
formed (if formed) international body or federation. Public no­
tice is hereby given to Mr. Lewis, his Secret Chief, Crowley, and
their associates and henchmen, that they have no right to use said
name or title in connection with their Black Magic activities.
121
FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTIONS Nos. 33 a n d 34
e of publicatioi^ A X ^ , 1
9
2
*?
. Affidavit rprp'wpd / 'l - ^ P . q
2T 192f ,
ies receiv
ed
. 3 - A , 192^. Entry: C
lass A?XX*., t
Uq& J I A . f (
(ffluyiATcdtcL t
(1
[seal]
Register of Copgrighte
U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPPICKi
Title Confederation or Fraternity of I nitiates filed with the Librarian of Con­
gress, Copyright Office, July 20, 1929. This is almost f i v e y e a r s prior to the formation
of an organization with an almost identical name by II. Spencer Lewis and his Euro­
pean henchmen.
V c ., ^ ,
. -_Jw CTxJvy*.
^ -•*
— P o Q o- .^0 .
____ Title of print:
i . . ^
v
Author, of the United States.
Date of publication^V^A k3L, 193^. Copies received^v^V . ? — ,
^ Entry: CUss K.Usfc, No.
ft*2*, 19?\ .
[s e a l ]
cfPuywcdlcL, <z$o£tfrvi,a
R
e
g
iste
ro
fC
o
p
y
rig
h
ts. /J
U. *■ GOVERNMENT PRINTING O P P IC Ii f i t *
I he further registration of the name as an insignia with the Librarian of Congress,
Copyright Office, on July 23, 1929.
122
ANOTHER EXPOSE OE LEWIS
E d it o r ’s N o t e : When this Brochure was ready for the press,
there came to our notice an Expose of Mr. Lewis, his methods and
how he has managed the financial affairs of AMORC by A. L eon
Ba t c h e l o r , the recent Grand Treasurer, which has been published
and extensively circulated in the Pacific coast states.
Mr. Batchelor asserts that Mr. Lewis demanded and forced his
resignation as Grand Treasurer because he refused to commit
perjury, at Lewis’ request, in his behalf and upon his demand in a
certain action or suit in equity now pending in the United States
District Court at San Francisco, wherein certain members of
AMORC are suing Lewis et al. for an accounting of and for the
alleged misappropriation of certain AMORC funds alleged to have
been appropriated to his own use and the private use of his family.
AMORC A LEWIS FAMILY AFFAIR
Mr. Batchelor, who should know by reason of his services as
Grand Treasurer, having been on the inside of the Grand Lodge
and entirely familiar with all the facts, declares that AMORC ,s
run and directed exclusively by the Lewis family as a private fam­
ily enterprise; that nothing has been left to the members, except
the privilege of paying their dues; that the so-called Supreme
Council of AMORC consists of H. Spencer Lewis, his wife Martha,
his son Ralph and his son’s wife, Gladys Lewis; that Lewis, the
Imperator, has made it an offense for members to criticize him, and
when a large number of members complained and asked for an
investigation of the affairs of the order, he used the funds of the
order to hire thugs and strong-armed men to threaten, intimidate
and coerce them. We are, also, aware that Lewis has been and is
using the funds of AMORC to hire character assassins to conduct
scandalous “whispering campaigns” against all who oppose or ex­
pose him. He has employed those insidious methods and other
equally disreputable and roguish tactics against us. However, he
has not cast his spell of fear upon us and shall not deter us in our
determined course to expose his scandalous methods and to protect
123
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M PE R A T O R
the innocent and uninformed against the siren calls of his bewitch­
ing deceit and ensnaring artifice.
SUPREME INTRIGUE AND PLOTS OF
SUPREME OFFICERS OF AMORC
Mr. Batchelor informs the world that, for two years, the Su­
preme Headquarters of AMORC at San Jose, California, have
been a hotbed of intrigue, plotting, dissensions, intimidations and
even personal physical violence; that although Lewis’ letters and
his AMORC literature abound with "Peace Profound," yet, as a
matter of fact, all that is left of “Peace Profound" is on paper;
that he and his son Ralph are constantly at war and at times do not
speak to each other for days or weeks, the chief bone of contention
being which of them—the Imperator, the father, or the Grand
Secretary, the son— has the most effective or subtle plan to fleece
the members and to hoodwink the public.
AMORC NOT A FRATERNAL ORDER— BEING
COMMERCIAL, MUST PAY INCOME TAXES
Mr. Batchelor furnishes the interesting and important informa­
tion that members of AMORC have never been given a statement
as to income and expenditures. Only meager generalities have been
given, which, he says, were designedly misleading and in some in­
stances deliberately false; that Lewis and his family have stolen
the order (AMORC) lock, stock and barrel; that they have sys­
tematically looted the treasury for their own benefits, sometimes
through questionable transactions and jugglery of the records and
sometimes without that ceremony; that after each convention Lewis
has repeatedly made and published the false statement to members
that a committee of the members had inspected and audited the
books of accounts; whereas, as a matter of fact, the books have
never been audited, according to the statement of the former Grand
Treasurer, except on two occasions: one made in the above-men­
tioned action in the Federal Court at San Francisco, the other by
the United States Internal Revenue Department, as the result of
which AMORC lost its status as a tax-exempt fraternal order and
is now required to pay federal income taxes and is liable for large
amounts of unpaid delinquent income taxes and heavy penalties.
124
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS A R U S E -
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL A MYTH
The Imperator of AMORC has wasted much printers’ ink in
publishing accounts of his attendance at so-called Rosicrucian Inter­
national Conventions, supposed to have been held in Europe.
These conventions and his much-heralded and often-referred-to
“International R. C. Council," of which he claims to be a member
and AMORC a part thereof, has been the subject of much false
propaganda. We have long known and heretofore have published
the facts, to wit: that Lewis’ so-called International Conventions
were never held and that his "International R. C. Council” was a
myth— a fiction pure and simple. We now have conclusive cor­
roborative proof of these facts from a former Grand Officer—the
Grand Treasurer of AMORC— who declares that Lewis and his
family for several years have taken trips to Europe with the funds
of AMORC, falsely telling the members they had attended Rosi­
crucian Conventions; that there have been no such conventions and
that there is no such thing as “International Council. " We suggest
that perhaps he used the funds of AMORC to go to confer with
Crowley, the Black Magician and his Secret Chief, as well as to
give himself and family splendid trips and vacations at the expense
of the members.
AMORC DYING FOR LACK OF SPIRITUAL
NOURISHMENT
He says that while Lewis loudly proclaims that AMORC is the
largest occult organization, yet he has never informed the members
of the number of its members; that were it not for his expenditure
of about $50,000 a year of AMORC funds in undignified, un-
Rosicrucian advertising and flamboyant ballyhoo, AMORC, under
Lewis’ domination and methods, would have died long ago for lack
of spiritual nourishment. He laments that it is a sad reflection on
AMORC that about four hundred members drop out each month;
that about an equal number each month are caught in the meshes of
Lewis’ untruthful and unethical advertising, soon to drop by the
wayside, and their places to be taken by new victims.
A SAMPLE OF LEWISTONIAN TRICKERY
Mr. Batchelor relates that a fair sample of Lewis’ chronic tend-
125
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
ency to cheap trickery and plausible falsehood is found in his pub­
lished accounts of the “sealed masonry” columns in the Temple
Room. To impress the members and the public with the “magnifi­
cence” of the Temple, he has stated boldly and falsely that the col­
umns are of solid masonry and the tops are covered with “22-karat
gold,” whereas that was the trade name of the paint used, which
was mixed with banana oil, and there is no solid masonry in the
building.
IMPORTANT DOCUMENTS NOT ROSICRUCIAN
Reference is made in said Expose to the publication by Lewis in
his official organ, T he D igest, of a series of fac-similes of docu­
ments which he has entitled “Important Rosicrucian Documents,"
one being reproduced herein (see our facsimile Reproduction
No. 20). Mr. Batchelor says that not one of them is a document
emanating from Rosicrucians, nor can any of them, by any stretch
of the imagination, be termed Rosicrucian documents; that Lewis’
published accounts of their meaning is worthless and that the very
contents of said documents betray his trickery.
AMORC HAS LARGE INCOME— IS A PAYING
ENTERPRISE FOR LEWIS FAMILY
The ex-Grand Treasurer reveals that Lewis spent a large sum of
AMORC funds to build what he advertised to be a Museum, which
is of no possible utility to the order, and has no relation to the
work of the order, merely as another means and opportunity for
advertising ballyhoo; that he falsely represents it to contain “rare
and ancient relics,” which are the subject of jest and the contempt
of curators of museums. He claims that Lewis has constantly im­
portuned the members for this and that purpose, called for contri­
butions for various purposes, but the money was not applied to
such purposes, and he takes Lewis to task for not telling the mem­
bers that AMORC has real and personal property valued at about
a half million dollars, nearly $400,000 in cash in bank and an an­
nual income of about $350,000.
BUILT THEIR HOMES AND PAID THEIR HOUSE­
HOLD EXPENSES W ITH AMORC FUNDS
Mr. Batchelor charges that Lewis and his son Ralph built their
126
W I T H B L A C K M A G I C C O N N E C T I O N S
homes with funds of the order and repeatedly drew checks on the
bank account of the order to pay their household bills; that Ralph
Lewis does not have a bank account, and his personal automobile
was paid for with funds of the order; that when these items drawn
on the order’s account accumulated on the books, Lewis and his
son voted themselves increases in salary, making them retroactive
to cover, in some measure, those peculations. That to secure addi­
tional funds for their use, they advised members to buy certain
books by which they personally profited. That they secure new
members by exaggerated advertising, against the rules of the order,
took the money and issued membership to anyone who sent in the
$5 initiation fee and reduced the level of the order to that of a
commercial correspondence school with much ballyhoo and false­
hood. And that Lewis has not only robbed the members of their
material substance, but that he has cruelly exploited their hopes,
aspirations, love and devotion to an ideal.
EX-GRAND TREASURER CAN PROVE CHARGES
In summing up, the recent former Grand Treasurer of AMORC
states that he is prepared to prove that Lewis, the Imperator of
AMORC, and his son Ralph, the Grand Secretary of AMORC,
are guilty of falsehood, fraud, misappropriation of funds and prop­
erty of the order, obtaining money under false pretenses, systematic
misleading and deception of members, utter absence of Rosicru-
cian standards or of any standards of honesty at headquarters, con­
verting the order into low commercialism and plain racketeering.
He further says that due entirely to the Lewis methods of con­
ducting the affairs of AMORC, it is held in contempt and looked
upon as a fraud, and that in San Jose, California, where the activi­
ties of the order are centered and Lewis is well known, he is
looked upon with suspicion, considered a clever grafter, a pious
racketeer and a M o n u m e n t a l H um bug.
THE PROOF OF THE LEWIS BLACK MAGIC
ACTIVITIES ACCUMULATES
The inverted use of Divine force and power is Bl a c k M agic
per se. The evidence of the use of Divine power— occult powers—
for personal ends, for selfish personal advantage, to make money,
to REVEL IN LUXURY— is prooft of Bl a c k M a g ic . The evidence
127
A B O A S T F U L , P I L F E R I N G I M P E R A T O R
of the pretended use of Divine powers— the false claim and decep­
tive pretensions of occult powers and authority not possessed; the
evidence of the use of deception, empiric trickery, roguish du­
plicity, insidious sophistry, double-dealing chicanery and o u t r ig h t
f r a u d to create an organization and to secure its membership is
proof of the scandalous, disgraceful and infamous use of the Bl a c k
A rts and the further evidence of the misuse, misappropriation anti
fraudulent absorption of said tainted funds for personal use and
private gain. The employment of said tainted funds against the
members from whom they were secured by such questionable and
despicable methods for the purpose of injuring or destroying the
members to whom said funds rightfully belong is proof of the most
scandalous, the most disgraceful and the most infamous use of the
Black Arts. Indeed and in truth, it is B l a c k M agic per se in its
most hideous and horrible aspects, in its most repulsive and loath­
some phases, in its most vicious and malefic utilization and in its
foulest form.
CONVICTED BUT RETAINS IDS POWER
Thus it is that H. Spencer Lewis, the Imperator, the “Most Per­
fect Master Profundis,” is convicted of Black Magic connections
and the disreputable, ghastly and malefic use of the Black Arts by
his own actions, on his own confessions and with the corroborative
proof which his former close associate and ex-Grand Treasurer
brings from the center of his rotten activities, from the innermost
part, the sanctum sanctorum of hi^jGrand Lodge, where, by the
use of his Black Arts, he enthroned hwself "Imperator” and by the
utility of his perfidious practices conti!?5,cs to be the “ M ost P er­
fect M aster P r o fu nd is” of AMORC
The ex-Grand Treasurer says that one o"^g:he members, Mr. Ber­
nard Justice, a retired army officer, pleaded with Lewis to change his
methods, to clean house and not to wreck the order; that Lewis
declared that if necessary he would spend every dollar of AMORC
and sell the ring off his finger before he would give in. Mr. Batche­
lor adds that since then Lewis has been and is now spending large
sums of the members’ money and using pages of T iie D igest and
Forum to mislead them by false statements, with not a hint of the
true conditions, which are very serious indeed.
What will Mr. Batchelor, his associates and other members of
AMORC, who have been wronged and maltreated, do about it?
128
