{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__clymer___amorc_v_smith_and_thomas.pdf","mytitle":"Amorc V Smith And Thomas","mylang":"de"}
IN THE
SUPERIOR COURT
KERN COUNTV, C A LIFO R N IA
A N C I E N T M Y S T I C A L O R D E R
R O S / E C R U C I S
A. M. O. U. C.
Goes to Court charging two of its for- i
mor members with conspiracy to
wreck it. They answer alleg­
ing that it is clandes­
tine, a fraudulent
scheme and a
‘racket.’
O f Special Interest to all
Masons, Rosicrucians, Students of the
Occult and Fraternal Organizations
THE CASE
of
The Ancient and Mystical Order
Rosae Crucis
against
George L. Smith and E. E. Thomas
in
The Superior Court of the State of
California, in and for the
County of Kern
Printed by
THE PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
QUAKERTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA
F O R E W O R D
To A L L WHO A R E I N T E R E S T E D :
The case ofA. M. O. R. C. against
two o f its former members is of spe­
cial interest to all regular Masons,
real Rosicrucians, sincere students
of the occult sciences,fraternal and
secret societies, and other like and
similar organizations. Therefore, in
order to make the information avail­
able to all those who are interested,
The Philosophical Publishing Com­
pany, Quakertown, Pennsylvania,
prints the Pleadings and Allega­
tions in said case.
Additional copies of this pamphlet
may be had upon application to
T E E PHILOSOPHICAL P U B L IS H IN G COMPANY
QUA KERTOWN , PENNS, YLVAN1A
1
A D D EN D A
The following excerpt is reprinted from the American Rosae
Crucis (the then official organ of AMORC), Vol. I, No. 1,
January, 1916, pages 3 and 4, under the title, “The Authentic
and Complete History of the Ancient and Mystical Order Rosa:
Crucis,” by H. Spencer Lewis:
“The claim has always been made that the A. M. 0. R. C. is
the oldest fraternal or secret order known to man. This claim
makes, the order antedate Freemasonry, and the latter lias al­
ways claimed great antiquity. Here again the casual, aye, the
deep investigator, is confronted with a mass of details p u rp o rt­
ing to be the history of Freemasonry, but gradually classify­
ing themselves into two groups whicli one may label ‘inexact’
and ‘indefinite.’ -
“Right here is where some of the mystery becomes clarified.
Rosicrucians claim, and can prove, that the Order of Free and
Accepted Masons is an offspring of the A. M. 0. R. C., and for
this reason its-origin is so veiled and indefinite except to those
who have passed through the Scottish Rites. Because of its
frankness, publicity and public propaganda, Freemasonry has
grown into a powerful organization, overshadowing in the pub­
lic’s mind all other secret and fraternal orders.
“ On the point of its connection with the A. M. 0. R. C.,
Freemasonry is very silent. I t traces its antiquity to ‘Solo­
mon’s Temple’ and refers to characters whose history, if not
actual existence,„are cloaked with doubt. Its published history
is very esoteric 'and mystical, although its actual history, as
known to all advanced Rosicrucians, is a living testimonial to
the truth of thejioble principles of brotherhood which underlie
Freemasonry.
“ So closely are the two orders allied that many of the great
exponents of the~one are active workers in the other. Free­
masonry has acknowledged its debt to the A. M. 0. R. C. by
adding a Rosicrucian degree to the Ancient and Accepted Scot­
tish Rite, making it the 18°. It has also established ‘Societas
Rosicruciana’ 'in England and various parts of the United
States, to which'none but an advanced Mason may apply for
admission.
“In these Ros:icrucian societies, as in the A. & A. S. R. 18°,
certain- elements of'the 'Rosicrucian initiations and doctrines
are used (in thaxrude form resulting from tradition by word
2
of mouth, since none but the legitimate lodges of the A. M. 0.
R. C. have the correct work), and the tendency on the p art of
these brother Masons in such degrees and societies is to prac­
tice and emulate the noble rules and doctrines of the A. M.
0. R. C.
“ Naturally, all genuine Rosicrucian lodges practice many of
the elements of the work of Freemasonry, since the latter
adapted its W O R K from that of the A. M. 0. R. C. The first
degree in all Rosicrucian lodges is very similar to the third
(or Master M asons) degree in Freemasonry. Many of the
latter's symbols and terms are taken from Rosicrucianism (as
explained elsewhere), and in general the two orders are aiming
to accomplish the same great and noble purpose, except that
the R. C. work is O PER A TIV E while Freemasonry is SPECC-
LA TIVE (The italics are ours— Masons, please note.)
Reprinted from the “Triangle” (the official organ of A. M. 0.
R. C.), dated September 29, 1921, under title “ Regarding Our
Affiliations.”
“ One other item may. interest our members. A large and
interesting document was received during1the month of August
r i • -» *
[1921J from a Sovereign Sanctum of Freemasonry abroad con­
ferring upon our Im perator [H. Spencer Lewis] the highest
.Masonic degrees, such as H onorary 33rd and the 90th and
95th Degrees of the Ancient and Primitive Rites of Memphis
and Mizraim (under a charter of authority issued bv John
Yarker 33rd, the eminent Masonic authority and historian and
sovereign Grand M aster General of England), wherebv our
Imperator is given the Masonic title of Prince of Memphis
(E g y p t), member of the Sovereign Tribunal and Defender.of
the order; and Sovereign Patriarchal Conservator of the rites,
Sublime Prince of the Magi. The honorary 33rd Degree carries
with it the title of Knight Grand Inspector General. The docu­
ment further makes the Imperator an honorary member of the
Sovereign Sanctuary of Switzerland, Austria and German v.
These Masonic honors arc conferred under the charter of au­
thority of Grand Orient of Ancient Gaul and Supreme Sanctu­
ary of Great Britain. Also the Ordo Templi Orient in (Oriental
Order of the Temple, F raternity of the Hermetic Light), has
conferred its high degrees upon our Im perator with the title of
Most Illustrious Sir Knight and Frater R. C., appointing our
supreme lodge in this country as Gage of A m ity, for the Ordo
Templi Orientis of Europe.
“Furthermore, the world council of the Rosicrucian Order,
tinder its official title (translated), ‘The Supreme High Coun­
cil of the Universe,’ through its great white collegium (Lodge),
3
announces its forthcoming annual pronouncements, conferring
upon our order_some_ Kigh honors and making our high degree
members of the'Supreme Grand Lodge of North America, H on­
orary Members of the Grand Shrine of Egypt and of the Illu­
minati of India by virtue of the power of the Magister of the
Temple R. S. at Calcutta. This Supreme High Council of the
Universe has under its immediate direction more than thirty
of the Secret Orders i f the world which have existed since the
dawn of civilization, which means all the esotei’ic Orders or
Fraternities, including the Essenes, Oriental Theosophists,
Esoteric Masonry, Rose Croix de Heredom, Ivrata Repoa of
Egypt, Rites of Mithras, Knights of Jerusalem, Oriental
Druids, L ’ordre du Martinisme, Oriental Knights of Templar,
the Oi’der Roste.Crucis, etc. The practice of all the ancient
and primitive rites of these orders, the conferring of their de­
grees and the establishment of their Lodges are under the con­
trol of this. Supreme Council, and thereby all arc united into
one large and co-operative, harmonious, secret organization.
Our Imperator is. a-high officer of this Council and all our
members who reach the Twelfth (Illuminati) Degree of our
Order will be appointed official representatives of this Council.
“By all this it will be seen th at the A. M. 0. R. C. is the
only organization, body, society or group of Rosicrucians in
America (or in--the-wo rid, for that matter) having the ap­
proval, recognition'and direction of the Supreme High Council
of all ancient arid "modem Secret Rites.”
IN THE
Superior Court of the State
of California
IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF KERN
T h e A n c i e n t a n d M y s t i c a l O r d e r
Ros.e CituciSj a Corporation,
Plaintiff, Xo_2(53U
vs. ■
COMPLAINT
GiioitGE L. S m i t h a n d E. E. T h o m a s ,
Defendants. „
I.
“During all times herein mentioned plaintiff was, and now is,
a fraternal lodge corporation, organized, existing and doing
business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Cali­
fornia.
II.
“ As such corporation plaintiff has and conducts rituals,
ceremonials, lessons, instructions and imparts other sundry in­
formation to its duly qualified admitted members in good stand­
ing only.
III.
“ Plaintiff corporation has a large membership throughout
the continental United States and elsewhere and for the use,
benefit, instruction and administration of its members, owns
and maintains administration buildings, printing plant and
other property and equipment representing a large investment.
Plaintiff has in the p a st engaged and does now engage in
propaganda and dissemination of information concerning the
order and its aims and objects for the purpose of increasing
its membership, which activities have in the past and do now
entail great expense. T h a t plaintiff order has been and now is
maintained and suppoi’ted through initiation fees and member­
ship dues paid in by its members.
IV.
“Heretofore defendants were members of plaintiff organiza­
G
tion and as such members were imparted and entrusted with
lessons, rituals-, ceremonials and other information, all of which
was imparted to them as such members for their own use only
and in confidence.
Y.
“Defendants severed their membership in the plaintiff order
and thereafter associated themselves with Alfred Saunders, one
John Doe Clymer, Myrtle Crane, Stanley Daines and others,
and the defendant, together with said persons, formed and
effected a conspiracy for the purpose of injuring the plaintiff,
diminishing its revenue and otherwise inflicting loss on the
plaintiff by circulating false and defamatory statements, coerc­
ing the members of the plaintiff to withdraw from their mem­
bership and by other and divers acts as hereinafter alleged, all
for the pui'pose of depi'iving the plaintiff of its membership,
revenues, property, and thereby wrecking the plaintiff ox-gani-
zation.
VI.
“F o r the purpose of lessening the value of membership in
plaintiff order, and thereby to prevent the acquisition of new
membex-s by the plaintiff, defendants wrongfully and contrary
to their respective oaths and solemn promises and undertak­
ings, given to the plaintiff, made copies of the private, confi­
dential and seci'et lessons and rituals of plaintiff order, and
otherwise published them and tui*ned them over to persons not
members of plaintiff.
VII.
“F or the pui*pose of cax-x-ying into effect the afox-ementioned
conspiracy, defendants, together with said other conspirators,
eircuhitcd w
x*itings throughout the membership of the plaintiff
order and to other persons who were likely to become such
members, accusing the executive head of plaintiff order of being
a person who has been guilty of acts of felony, and that he was
insane; that the plaintiff ox’der was about to be prosecuted for
divers frauds and other illegal acts, and advised said members
and other persons to withdraw their membership in plaintiff
order, and advising non-membex's not to seek membership
therein.
v i i i . H-
“Dux-ing all times herein mentioned JL. Spencer Lewis was,
and now is, the executive head of plaintiff order and as such
he is widely known throughout the membership of plaintiff order
and among large numbers of non-members thx'oughout the
United States, in Europe and elsewhere.
IX .
“T h a t the defendants, E. E. Thomas and the said conspira­
7
tors John Doe Clymer, Stanley Daines and Alfred Saunders,
have been, and now are, associated with and/or officials, and/or
members of other organizations purporting to conduct an or­
ganization similar in purpose to th at of plaintiff order, and by
said acts of said conspirators attempted to gain members and
adherents to their respective organizations, and against the
interest and a t the expense of plaintiff order.
'X. -
“Defendants, together with said conspirators, gave out in
writing and orally to a large number of plaintiff’s members, and
to divers other persons, th at probable exposure of plaintiff
order for criminal and fraudulent acts was imminent and intimi­
dated many of plaintiff’s members to cease their membership
in plaintiff order, and prevented a large number of prospective
members from seeking membership in plaintiff order, and held
out to such persons and members coercing them into believing
that when such purported exposure occurred their membership
in such order would reflect adversely upon them by reason of
such membership, and the defendants, together with the other
conspirators, and by means of such acts did cause divers per­
sons to cease their membership in plaintiff order, and did cause
other persons to refrain from seeking membership therein.
X I.
“T hat all of said statements made and circulated by the de­
fendants and their co-conspirators, either in writing or orally,
as hereinabove stated, were and are false, and that the defend­
ants and their co-conspirators, and each of them, made said
statements maliciously and for the purpose of injuring the
plaintiff order, and for the purpose of gaining adherents and
revenues for themselves by increasing their membership in other
organizations, as hereinabove mentioned, and that all of said
acts of the defendants and of their co-conspirators were and
arc in pursuance of said conspiracy.
X II.
‘'T hat the acts of the defendants were committed within one
vear immediately preceding the commencement of this action.
X III.
“By reason of the acts of the defendants and of their co­
conspirators plaintiff has lost existing members, and has lost
the opportunity of gaining a large number of prospective mem­
bers, and the public esteem concerning the plaintiff order has
been damaged and its revenues impaired, all to its damage in
the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
X IV.
“The defendants and the other mentioned persons as sucli
co-conspirators are now continuing and persisting in all of said
8
acts hereinabove mentioned, and threaten to so continue, and
will do so unless restrained by tliis Court. By reason of the
nature of the damages inflicted upon plaintiff by the activities
and acts of the defendants and their co-conspirators, and by
reason of the far-flung membership and influence of the plaintiff
it will be difficult and impossible to estimate the damages which
the plaintiff will suffer in the future, and by reason of the nature
of said acts and the damages consequent thereon, pecuniary
damages will be wholly inadequate; th a t unless the defendants
are restrained by this Court, plaintiff mil be forced to institute
successive and repeated actions, thereby necessitating multi­
plicity of actions.
XV.
"Neither defendants nor any of their co-conspirators can re­
spond in pecuniary damages and any monetary judgment for
damages against either of them would yield nothing to the plain­
tiff. T h at plaintiff has no plain, adequate, speedy or efficacious
remedy at law, and unless defendants are restrained by this
Court, plaintiff will be without remedy.
" W h e r e f o r e , plaintiff prays for judgm ent against the de­
fendants in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), to­
gether with its costs of suit herein, and for such injunctive and
other relief as to the Court may seem meet and proper in the
premises and necessary for the protection of the rights of
plaintiff.
“F R E D E R IC K W. W ELSH ,
“A L F R E D ARAM,
“Attorneys for Plaintiff.
" S t a t e o f C a l i f o r n i a
"County o f K e r n
" F r e d e r i c k W . W e l s h , being first duly sworn, deposes and
.-ays: He is the attorney for the plaintiff in the foregoing ac-
hon, and he makes this verification for and on behalf of the
plaintiff for the reason that the said plaintiff is outside of the
County of Ivern, wherein this affiant maintains his offices; that
he has read the foregoing complaint and knows the contents
thereof, and he believes it to be time.
^ “F R E D E R IC K W. W ELSH .
Subscribcd and sworn to before me
this 26th day of October, 1932.
“ H e n r i e t t a G . P a l m e r ,
“Notary Pitblic in and for said
( s e a l ) County and State.”
The foregoing complaint was filed December 9, 1932, and is
certified to be a true "copy by the Clerk of said Court.
9
CO RRECTION OE NAME
On February 1, 1933, the plaintiff’s attorney filed its appli­
cation to correct plaintiff’s name (omitting the title and formal
parts),'as follows:
“ S t a t e o f C a l i f o r n i a
“ C o u n t y o f K e r n
“ F r e d e r i c k W . W e l s h , being first duly sworn, deposes and
says: I am one of the attorneys for the plaintiff in the above­
entitled action and have immediate charge of the action. In
the preparation of the complaint in this action a mistake was
made in the name of the p a rty plaintiff. The correct name of
the p arty plaintiff is T H E S U P R E M E GRAND LODGE OF
T H E A N C IEN T AN D M Y STIC A L ORDER ROS.E CRU-
CIS, a corporation.
“The mistake occurred because the complaint was drawn in
Bakersfield, Kern County, California, and the office of the cor­
poration is in another county and the p a rty giving me the in­
formation as to the name inadvertently omitted the words 'The
Supreme Grand Lodge of’ from the title.
“The Court is respectfully requested to correct this mistake
in the name of the plaintiff bv changing the name of the
plaintiff from T H E A N C IE N T AN D MYSTICAL ORDER
ROS-'E CRUCIS, a corporation, to T H E SU PREM E
GRAND LODGE OF T H E A N C IE N T AND MYSTICAL
OR D ER ROS.E CRUCIS, a corporation.
“I make this application for and on behalf of the plaintiff
because none of the officers of the plaintiff are in the County
of Ivern, where I reside and have my office, and I am familiar
with the facts.
“F R E D E R IC K W. W ELSH .
Subscribed and sworn to before me,
this 1st day of February, 1933.
“ H e n r i e t t a G. P a l m e r ,
“Notary Public in and for said
( s e a l ) County and State.”
The foregoing is certified to be a true copy by the Clerk of
said Court.
D E F E N D A N T ’S A M EN D ED A N SW ER
The defendants filed their original answer and on M arch 9,
1933, filed their amended answer (omitting the title and formal
parts), as follows:
“ Comes now the defendants, George L. Smith and E. E.
Thomas, and answers the complaint of the plaintiff herein; ad­
mits, denies and alleges as follows, to wit:
I.
“Answering p arag rap h 1, denies that plaintiff is now or
ever has been a fraternal lodge or corporation, and further
denies that said plaintiff is or ever has been organized to do
business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Cali­
fornia, or the laws of any State.
” n.
“Answering p arag rap h 2, denies that said plaintiff does now
or ever has conducted rituals, ceremonials or lessons, and fur­
ther denies that said plaintiff instructs or imparts sundry in­
formation or any information to its qualified members in good
standing or in any standing.
" m .
“Answering p arag rap h 3, denies that plaintiff has a large
membership or any membership in the United States or else­
where, and denies th at plaintiff owns or maintains administra­
tion buildings or printing plants for the benefit or instruction
of said members. Admits that the plaintiff lias engaged, and
does now engage, in propaganda and dissemination of informa­
tion concerning plaintiff and its aims and objections; denies
that the activities of the plaintiff have in the past or do now
entail any expense; denies that the plaintiff lias been or now
is maintained and supported through initiation fees and dues
paid to it by its members.
IV.
“Answering p arag rap h 4, admits that the defendants were
members of plaintiff organization, and denies that as such mem­
bers there was imparted or entrusted to them lessons, rituals
and ceremonials and other information, and denies that if such
information were given them it was for their own use and to be
used only in confidence.
V.
“Answering p arag rap h 5, admits that the defendants sev­
ered their membership with the plaintiff and denies that they
11
associated themselves with Alfred Saunders, John Doe Cly-
mer, Myrtle F. Crane, Stanley Daines and others, or th at they
are now associated with said mentioned persons, and denies
that they formed and effected a conspiracy or that they are
now conspiring for the purpose of injuring the plaintiff, di­
minishing its revenue and/or otherwise inflicting loss on plain­
tiff; denies that they, or either of them, circulated false or de­
famatory statements and coerced the members of the plaintiff
order to withdraw their membership, and deny that either of
them did any other acts for the purpose of depriving plaintiff
of its membership, revenue and property.
VI.
“ Answering paragraph 6, denies th at defendants, or either
of them, made copies of private, confidential or secret rituals
of plaintiff; denies that they were published or turned over to
persons not members.
VII.
“Answering paragraph 7, denies that they, together with
anyone else, circulated writings to the members of the plaintiff,
or circulated any writings to anyone; denies that they ever
circulated any writing accusing the head of the plaintiff order
of being guilty of acts of felony, or that he was insane, or that
he was about to be prosecuted for divers frauds and other
illegal a c ts; denies that they advised the members of the plain­
tiff order, or the members of any order to withdraw their mem­
bership; denies that they advised non-members not to seek
membership in said plaintiff order.
VIII.
“Answering paragraph 8, denies that H. Spencer Lewis was
and now is the executive head of plaintiff order. Admits that
he is widely known throughout the plaintiff oi-der; denies that
lie is widely known to large numbers of non-members; denies
that lie is known in Europe or any place outside of the United
States.
IX.
“Answering paragraph 9, denies th at the defendants and
E. E. Thomas have been or now are associated with John Doe
Clymcr, Stanley Daines and Alfred Saunders, with an d/or of­
ficials, and/or members of any organization purported to con­
duct an organization similar in purpose to that of plaintiff
order; denies that defendants, and E. E. Thomas, either for
themselves or anyone of the above-mentioned parties, has a t­
tempted to gain members and adherents to any organization
against the interest and at the expense of plaintiff order.
X.
“ Answering paragraph 10, denies that defendants, or either
12
of them, together with any persons or all the persons mentioned
in plaintiff’s complaint gave out in writing and/or orally to the
members of plaintiff order, or any persons, any statements that
there was a probable exposure of plaintiff order for fraudu­
lent acts, and denies that any of plaintiff’s members were in­
timidated to cease their membership in plaintiff’s order, and
denies that they, or either of them, prevented a large number
of prospective members from seeking membership in plaintiff
order, and denies that the defendants, or either of them, held
out or coerced such members and persons into believing that if
there was such an exposure th at it would reflect adversely upon
them, and further denies that nothing has been done or is being
done by said defendants, or either of them, to cause such mem­
bers and persons to cease their membership in plaintiff order.
X I.
“Answering paragraph 11, denies that any false statements
were made by defendants, or either of them, and further denies
that any malicious statements were made for the purpose of
injuring said plaintiff order or that any statements were made
for the purpose of gaining adherents and revenues for them­
selves, or that the defendants, or either of them, or any people
known to them, did any acts for the purpose of increasing the
membership of any organization, and that the defendants, or
either of them, have performed any acts for the furtherance
of any conspiracy, and that the fact is that there never was
or is any conspiracy.
" - ' X II.
■
‘Answering paragraph 12, having no information or belief
as to the matter set forth in paragraph 12, and basing their
denial upon that ground, denies that the defendants, or either
of them, committed any acts within one (1) year immediately
preceding the commencement of this action, as alleged in said
complaint.
X III.
“Answering paragraph 13, having no information or belief
as to the matter set forth in paragraph 13, and basing their
denial upon that ground, denies that the plaintiff, by reason of
any acts of the defendants, or either of them, have caused the
plaintiff to lose any existing members, and denies that the
plaintiff has lost the opportunity of gaining a large number
of prospective members, and denies that public esteem of plain­
tiff has been damaged and revenues impaired, and/or that plain­
tiff has lost any -prospective members, and/or suffered any
damages, and denies that plaintiff order has suffered damages
-in the sum of ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollars, or any sum,
or that plaintiff has been damaged at all.
13
XIV.
“Answering paragraph 14, denies that defendants, or either
of them, together with any persons mentioned in plaintiff’s
complaint, are now or have been doing any of the acts men­
tioned in plaintiff’s complaint, or threatened to continue to do
any of said mentioned acts, and further denies that any dam­
ages have been inflicted upon plaintiff; denies that if any dam­
age lias been done it would be difficult and impossible to esti­
mate the damage plaintiff has suffered, and further denies that
if any damage were done, tiiat pecuniary damages would be
wholly adequate, and further denies that unless the said above­
mentioned Court makes its order restraining defendants, that
plaintiff would be forced to institute successive and repeated
actions.
XV.
“Answering paragraph. 15, denies that defendants, or either
of them, alone or together with any persons mentioned in said
complaint, can not respond in pecuniary damages, and further
denies that plaintiff lias no plain, adequate, speedy or effica­
cious remedy at law.
"FOR A F U R T H E R S E P A R A T E AND D IS T IN C T AN­
S W E R AND D E F E N S E AND BY W AY OF N EW MAT­
T E R D E FE N D A N T S A FFIR M A T IV E L Y A L LEG E :
"T h at they, and each of them, arc informed and believes and
oil such information and belief state it to be a fact, as follows:
I.
"T hat plaintiff, the Ancient and Mystical Order R os;l
- Crucis
and Harvey Spencer Lewis, are, in truth and fact, one and the
same; that the said Lewis created, organized and has perpetu­
ated Plaintiff Order as a device a n d /o r vehicle for the accom­
plishment and perpetuating of one of the cleverest and most
gigantic frauds ever conceivcd by a clever mind and/or exe­
cuted by a wicked and depraved heart; that when he organized
Plaintiff Order, as and in the manner as hereinafter alleged,
he appointed or ‘elected’ himself ‘Grand M aster’ and later
nominated and named himself ‘Im perator’ of said alleged and
pretended Plaintiff Order; that he has appointed his son, Ralph
Lewis, Grand Secretary and officered it solelv with members
of his immediate family; that at all times since its organization
he has. and does now, absolutely control, dominate and use
Plaintiff Order as a device an d/or vehicle for his own benefit
and pecuniary profit and for the selfish and sordid enrichment
of himself and members of his immediate familv,
II.
‘'T hat Plaintiff Order, claiming and purporting to be a Rosi-
1-i
crucian organization, is clandestine, having and possessing at
no time any warrant of authority from the authentic or any
authentic Rosicrucian organization; that it was conceived as a
fraudulent scheme and at all times since its alleged origin, about
the years 1915, 1916 or 1917 to the present time, it has been
conducted ds a fraudulent scheme, and is now being so con­
ducted, all of which fully appear from the detailed statement
of facts as hereinafter alleged and set forth:
III.
“T h at prior to the organization of Plaintiff Order, as and
in the manner hereinafter set forth, Harvey Spencer Lewis,
then a pupil in attendance at Public School No. 16, in the City
of New York, possessing a brilliant, erratic and imaginative
mind, bent and inclined towards deception and trickery, with
an unusual love for the mystic, illusionary and magical, aban­
doned his schooling at said public school before graduation
therefrom and accepted employment at M clntire’s Magic Store,
on Forty-second Street, in said City of New York, which dealt
in all manner and kind of tricks, magical chemical formulas,
mechanical magical devices and means of deception and for
creating false illusions, and also in all kinds of mystical and
magical literature, books on fortune telling, astrology, palm­
istry and the like.
, “ IY.
“T h a t at said time and afterwards the said Harvey Spencer
Lewis began, and. so continued, to read metaphysical, mystical
books, a number of which he found in the New York Public
Library, dealing. with the Rosicrucian F raternity; that al­
though he was- unable to obtain any of the secrets of the ‘llose
Cross’ or anv of the inner and secret teachings of the llosi-
. *
- O
crucian Fraternity from said books, and though he knew noth­
ing whatever, of said secrets or inner and esoteric teachings and
practices of said Rosicrucian Fraternity, he did perceive and
realize that it was an historical, august fraternity of good re­
pute, mystical and alluring, and that it numbered among its
members some of the world’s best and most distinguished schol­
ars, prominent persons, historical characters and people of re­
nown. T hat then and there his imagination was thereby fired
beyond his control and it was then in said mental state and
with said background of false, deceptive magic that he con­
ceived the idea of organizing a false, fraudulent and clandestine
Rosicrucian organization, to be completely controlled and
dominated bv himself, as a fraudulent device and commercial
scheme for his own profit and primarily as a means of making
money in a manner entirely contrary and counter to landmarks
and basic principles’
-of the authentic Rosicrucian Fraternity,
15
and/or of any other worthy, mystical, religious, occult or fra ­
ternal society or organization of sound principles and high
ethics.
V.
“T h at the! said Harvey Spencer Lewis, from the reading of
said books and other information available to the public gen­
erally, knew that the authentic, original and regular Rosicru­
cian organization, also known by other and derivative titles and
names, was generally known and designated as a ‘fraternity
and/or ‘brotherhood,’ and well knowing that he had not been
initiated into and had no knowledge of its inner workings or
teachings, and that he possessed no w arrant of authority from
the authentic fraternity or brotherhood to organize a Rosi­
crucian body, but knowing the value of the name ‘Rosicrucian’
and the words 'Rose Cross,’ ‘Rosy Cross’ and their equivalents
in Latin and other languages, lie conceived the idea of desig­
nating his false, fraudulent, psuedo and clandestine organiza­
tion as an ‘order instead of a fraternity and of naming it
Ancient and Mystical Order Rosa? Crucis, of giving it the ap­
pearance of being both Rosicrucian and Masonic, of making
certain signs, seals and symbols, some of which were to be Rosi­
crucian and Masonic in their origin, others were to be of his
own designing and of having the same copyrighted, all in ac­
cordance with his said fraudulent scheme.
VI.
"T hat as a p a rt of said fraudulent scheme, H. Spencer Lewis
conceived the idea and design of connecting the Rosicrucian
and Masonic Fraternities into one grand fraudulent scheme;
of using and profiting by and from the prestige of both; of
later joining and being initiated into the Masonic Order or
Fraternity with the design and sole purpose of securing the
secret work of Masonrv and of using and embodying1it in the
work of his proposed fraudulent and clandestine Rosicrucian
Order: that he afterwards attempted to carry out said design
by seeking membership in the said authentic Masonic Order
or Fraternity, as hereinafter fully set forth; that he now claims
to be a high Mason and falsely represents the Plaintiff Order
is closely allied to or connected with the Masonic Order or
Frate rnitv.
v n .
“T h at the said Harvey Spencer Lewis, well knowing that lie
possessed no true knowledge of real Rosicrucianism and hav­
ing no warrant of authority as aforesaid from said Rosicrucian
Fraternity, conceived the idea of pretending to be possessed of
such knowledge, of having been duly prepared and initiated into
said Rosicrucian Fraternity and of collecting what he imagined
16
and conceived to-be; thenecessary jewels, and of manufacturing,
forging and/or faking the necessary documents to pu rp o rt to
show and tend to prove such knowledge, initiation and author­
ity, or to at least give the appearance of plausibility.
VIII.
‘“
T hat during, prior or subsequent to the year 1913 the said
Harvey>(Lewiss<
Spenceg)~prepared, faked and forged certain
papers and documents purporting to give him the necessary and
proper authority to organize a Rosicrucian body; th a t on or
about December 15, 1913, he made an attempt, in furtherance
of said fraudulent scheme, to organize such a body by as­
sembling some twenty persons a t a place on Madison Avenue
near Thirty-fourth Street, in the City of New York, but none
were impressed with his faked, manufactured and forged docu­
ments or pretended authority, and all declined to take any p a rt
in the same, whereupon the said Lewis retired into ‘silence,’ a
habit lie formed .during his early career, which he often found
advantageous; that during said ‘retired silence’ he proceeded
to polish up the .‘jewels,’ to collect others, to revise his docu­
ments, to make, and fix up others, to concoct a better, more
plausible and convincing story and to revise and perfect his
said fraudulent scheme for another attempt.
IX..
"That some time.during the years 1915, 1916 or 1917, the
exact date thesc.^defendants are unable to determine from
the conflicting claims and inconsistent published statements
made by the said'H arvey Spencer Lewis and Plaintiff Order,
the said Harvey Spencer Lewis, in furtherance of his said
fraudulent scheme, in the City of New York, did form an al­
leged mystical, occult a n d /o r Rosicrucian organization, which
was named or called the Ancient and Mystical Order Rosa:
Crucis, being the plaintiff herein.
X.
“T hat in truth and fact it was and is not mystical, unless
mystical means deceptive; that it is not ancient because it has
no actual history or antecedents prior to the said uncertain
date of its organization; that it was not then, has not been
at any time since and is not now a Rosicrucian or Rose Cross
organization; that it was not organized, has not existed and
does not now exist by virtue of any w arrant of authority
issued by or from any regular or authentic Rosicrucian F ra ­
ternity or organization, or with the consent or sponsorship
thereof; that saidmame was adopted and has since been used
by the said H arvey Spencer Lewis and Plaintiff Order with the
intcntTo deceive; tjwtHt. has and does deceive the gullible, the
uninformed and the unthinking public generally; that it has
17
deceived and led large numbers of persons really and truly in­
terested in the mystical an d/or occult who have not taken the
time nor the pains to investigate and/or who have not had
the means and opportunity to investigate and learn the truth
into believing that it, the Plaintiff Order, is truly mystical
a nd/or occult; that it is ancient and has a long, honored and
renowned history and th at it is duly authorized and chartered
by the regular, authentic and genuine Rosicrucian Fraternity,
whereas it is nothing of the kind, but is, in truth and fact, a
mere device for the better carrying out and execution of said
fraudulent scheme of the said Harvey Spencer Lems for the
obtaining of money for his own use and benefit and for the use
and benefit of his family, who completely dominate, control
and/or own said Plaintiff Order, as hereinafter fully alleged
and set forth.
X I.
“T h a t as a p a rt of his said fraudulent scheme and in fur­
therance thereof, the said Harvey Spencer Lewis adopted,
copyrighted and published in the year 1915 in a copyrighted
pamphlet, designated ‘Official Publication Number Two, A. M.
0. R. C.,’ certain copyrighted signs, sjmibols and seals for
Plaintiff Order, photostatic copies of the title page of said
pamphlet and the page therein containing or having printed
thereon said symbolisms, seals and signs, appearing opposite
page IV in said pamphlet, are hereto attached and made a p art
of this answer and marked ‘Exhibit A.’
X II.
“T h a t among the signs and symbols so adopted in the man­
ner aforesaid for use of the Plaintiff Order is a cross with a
rose thereon at the intersection thereof, commonly and gen­
erally known as the ‘Rose Cross’ or ‘Rosy Cross’; th at said
symbol is truly Rosicrucian in its nature and one of the sym­
bols of the authentic fraternity, and that it was adopted for
Plaintiff Order, in the manner aforesaid, with intent and de­
sign to deceive in furtherance of said fraudulent scheme by mis­
leading the uninformed and the public generally to believe that
Plaintiff Order is a Rosicrucian organization.
X III.
“T h at among the said signs, emblems and symbols so adopted,
in the manner aforesaid, for the use of Plaintiff Order is a
compass, well, commonly and generally known as a sign and
symbol of regular and authentic Ancient Free and Accepted
M asonry; that because the Masonic Order is a popular, well-
known, highly reputed secret and fraternal organization with
a large membership of highly reputed and distinguished men,
said sign or symbol, to wit: the compass, was adopted with the
18
intent, design and purpose of leading the public to believe and
conclude that Plaintiff Order is approved, vouched for or spon­
sored by Masons and the said Masonic Fraternity or Order, in
furtherance of said fraudulent scheme; that the Plaintiff Order
and the said Lewis have often attempted by various deceptive
means and methods to lead the public to believe that Plaintiff
Order is in some way connected with Masonry and is vouched
for and approved by Masonry— that is, by individual Masons
and/or the Masonic F raternity— as will fully appear from
other allegations herein made and set forth.
XIV.
“T hat among said signs, seals and symbols so adopted, in
the manner aforesaid, for the use of Plaintiff Order, are two
in particular, as follows, to wit: (1) An inverted triangle with
a cross therein, being the ‘Grand Symbol of the Order of the
World.’ meaning Plaintiff Order, and (2) an inverted triangle
interlaced with a broken circle, with a cross and compass
therein, being the ‘Great Seal of the Grand M aster General’
or Plaintiff Order, meaning the great seal of the said Harvey
Spencer Lewis; th a t said ‘Grand Symbol’ and ‘Great Seal’ are
not symbols of the Rosicrucian nor Masonic Fraternities nor
of any well-reputed mystical or occult organization of true
principles, high ethics and noble purpose; that while they
were adopted as a p a rt of said fraudulent scheme and intended
to deceive and do deceive the ignorant and those unadvised of
their true and highly significant meaning, they were then
adopted by the said Harvey Spencer Lewis in full and complete
ignorance of their true meaning and significance, and that even
though they were, in all probability of accidental adoption,
nevertheless they truly and exactly symbolize and indicate the
fraudulent nature of the Plaintiff Order and the lack of
spiritual development of the ‘Grand M aster General’ th at is of
H. Spencer Lewis, as well as his fraudulent character and prac­
tices, to all who know and understand the true significance and
meaning of said symbols.
XV.
“T hat the inverted triangle is the sign, symbol an d/or in­
signia of an unworthy, phony, fraudulent organization of in­
jurious, dangerous and questionable methods— that is to sav,
it is the sign and symbol of ‘Black Magic’ and is so understood
and regarded by all informed and knowing people. T h a t the
broken circle, a m o n g other things, symbolizes and indicates in­
completeness and is the sign of one whose knowledge is ele­
mentary and limited and whose preparations, training and de­
velopment is incomplete, it symbolizes the exact opposite of
‘Mastership,’ illumination and advanced development which the
19
said Lewis as ‘Grand M aster’ and ‘Im perator’ of Plaintiff Order
wrongfulljr, deceptively and fraudulently claims to possess.
T h at the inverted triangle within and interlaced in the broken
circle constituting the ‘Great Seal of the Grand Master Gen­
eral’ or of the said H arvey Spencer Lewis, is the sign and/or
symbol of a ‘Black Magician’ and trickster of unworthy mo­
tives and questionable and dangerous pi*actices, and that it is
generally so regarded and understood by all who know and
understand its true meaning and full significance.
XVI.
“T h at in furtherance of his said fraudulent scheme and to
give Plaintiff’s Order the appearance of Masonic approval and
sponsorship, the said Harvey Spencer Lewis, in the year 1917,
in the City of New York, made his application for membership
to Normal Lodge, No. 523, in the City of New York, under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of New York, and was accepted an En­
tered Apprentice, passed to the degree of Fellowcraft, when
and whereupon the officers and members of said Normal Lodge,
after due investigation, found that he, the said Lewis, was con­
nected with and promoting a phony, fraudulent and clandestine
Rosicrucian organization, and that it was his design, intention
and purpose to secure the secret work of authentic Masonry to
use and embody it in the so-called secret work of the said phony,
fraudulent and clandestine Rosicrucian order, which he was
then promoting and organizing or attempting to organize;
that 'thereupon said Masonic Lodge proceeded to stop, black­
ball and expel the said Lewis from its membership: that the
said Lems has since made persistent and repeated efforts aiul
applications to be reinstated as a member and to be raised to
the sublime degree of a M aster Mason of the regular and au­
thentic Ancient Free and Accepted Masonry, but has been
firmly refused and forever barred therefrom.
XVII.
“T h at in furtherance of his said fraudulent scheme the said
Lewis, as Grand Master and Im perator of Plaintiff Order, at
all times herein mentioned, and especially since he was expelled
and forever barred from authentic Masonry, has bv persistent
efforts and constant subtle, deceptive and misleading propa­
ganda, alleged the association with him and his said Order,
being Plaintiff Order, of many high Masons and bv such means
and methods has attempted to deceive the public and l i a s de­
ceived a large number of uninformed people by leading them to
believe that Plaintiff’s Order is vouched for and approved bv
regular Masons and in some way associated with Masonry;
and that in furtherance of said design and purpose he an­
20
nounced in his and Plaintiff’s Order official organ, ‘The T ri­
angle,’ under dafe" of September 29, 1921, that he was a mem­
ber of the Masonic Rites of Memphis and claimed that the high­
est Masonic degi'ees, such as th at of the H onorary Thirty-
third, Ninetieth and Ninety-sixth degrees of Ancient and Prim­
itive Rites of Memphis and Mizraim, had been conferred upon
him, without advising the public but designedly concealing the
fact that said Rites of Memphis and Mizraim is clandestine
Masonry and has long since been discredited and outlawed by
all worthy Masons' and all regular, authentic Masonic bodies;
that he has also made many other claims and subtle misrepre­
sentations of his Masonic affiliations, all in accordance with
and in furtherance of his said scheme.
X V III.
“T h at on the night of June 17, 1918, at No. 31G West
Twenty-third Street, in the City of New York, the police of
said city raided the then headquarters of plaintiff’s al­
leged Order and seized all of its paraphernalia and docu­
ments ; that among the papers seized was a parchment
headed ‘Pronunziamento F. R. C. No. 987G01,’ adorned with a
number of crude seals, dated Toulouse, France, September 20,
1916, signed by one Jean Jordan. After the signature followed
a scries of hieroglyphics in the body of the document, addressed
to Le Secretaire-General, Thor Kiimalehto, appeared the an­
nouncement th at a separate jurisdiction of the Rosa? Crucis
Order had been established in America under Supreme Pontiff,
High Ancient Shekah El Moria R a of Memphis and that the
official seal was being forwarded to the Most Perfect Master
Profundis, H. Spencer Lewis, at New York; that at the same
time the Most Perfect M aster Profundis Grand Imperator
Lewis, meaning the said Harvey Spencer Lewis, was arrested
on a charge of larceny of money through the sale of bonds of
the American Order of the Ros;c Crucis, the charge being that
he had disposed of several thousands of dollars of worthless
bonds, upon the representation that his Order was a recognized
branch of a world-wide institution; that following said raid
and arrest, all his associates abandoned him in the carrying out
of his said alleged fraudulent scheme and all of the officers and
members of said Grand Lodge deserted said enterprise and the
said Harvey Spencer Lewis ‘retired into silence.’
X IX .
‘‘T h a t the said Lewis based his said fraudulent scheme upon
the premises that he was of foreign initiation in the Rosicrucian
l'raternity, that he spent many years in preparation of Rosi­
crucian work under the guidance and sponsorship of foreign
and European masters and teachers of a foreign Rosicrucian
21
F raternity; th at he was finally initiated into the high and
twelfth degree of Illuminati of a foreign jurisdiction and that
said foreign jurisdiction, as such, authorized him to form, cause
to be re-born and/or reorganized in America in the years 1915,
1916, 1917 or 1918, according to the different, conflicting and
varied statements of the said Harvey Spencer Lewis; that he
lias often asserted and likewise as often denied that he held a
w arrant of authority from Rosicrucian organizations of a for­
eign jurisdiction to organize the plaintiff’s so-called Order in
America, and that although he had in his possession the said
‘Pronunziamento F. R. C. No. 987601,’ purporting on its face
to confer authority upon him and announcing that his was a
separate jurisdiction established in America under the Supreme
Pontiff High Ancient Shekah El M ona Ra of Memphis
(E g y p t), nevertheless and notwithstanding immediately after
the police had seized said document and after his said arrest
he admitted that he held no warrant of authority from any for­
eign Rosicrucian jurisdiction and stated, ‘We have never
claimed to hold any warrant, charter, patent or authority from
anv foreign country.’
X X .
“T h a t originally the said Harvey Spencer Lewis falsely rep­
resented, as aforesaid, that he was initiated into the French
Rosicrucian Order and by it duly authorized to organize said
Order in the United States, but failing to impress any consid­
erable number of people with said false claims and forged docu­
ments, he proceeded to make other false representations and to
manufacture other false documents and devices and to have a
non-existing, fictitious ‘Mystic and Ancient’ Rosicrucian Order
in E gypt sponsor his said original false claims of authority
from France, as evidenced by and set forth in said forged and
manufactured document, designated ‘Pronunziamento F. R. C.
No. 987601’; that later he falsely claimed German Rosicru­
cian authority; that at another and other times he falsely
claimed said authority from a Rosicrucian Council in Switzer­
land, and that at other times and in more recent years he has
claimed authority from an International Rosicrucian Council
of the world, which (he) has recently organized as a p a rt of
Plaintiff Order, thus making said false conflicting and/or sup­
plemental claims as and when convenient or necessary for the
better carrying out of his said fraudulent scheme.
X X I.
“T h at the said Lewis falsely represents and has caused Plain­
tiff Order to fal sely represent that it is a part of a world-wide
revival of the original and authentic Rosicrucian Order, Broth­
erhood and/or F raternity; that it, the original Rosicrucian
Fraternity, has organizations all over the e a rth ; that he and his
said son,Ralph M. Lewis, are high and mighty officers of a world­
wide Supreme Rosicrucian Council; whereas, in truth and in
fact, the only foreign organization with which he, his said son
and Plaintiff Order are in any way connected are a few scat­
tered organizations in Europe, greatly exaggerated and mis­
represented, which he has recently organized, as aforesaid, as
a part of his said fraudulent scheme, an d/or numerous mysteri­
ous fictitious organizations falsely alleged to be scattered all
over the world, which have no existence, in fact; that in truth
and in.fact said ‘High Rosicrucian Council of the W orld’ is a
greatly exaggerated fiction and an overworked farce, existing
only in the imagination of the said Lems and in the printed and
widely circulated literature and high pressure, fraudulent ad­
vertising matter of Plaintiff Order.
X X II.
“T hat after his said enforced period of silence, to wit: about
the year 1920, the said Harvey Spencer Lewis crossed the con­
tinent and appeared in the City of San Francisco, flockless,
with all of his former members and officers having deserted
him, as aforesaid, and then and there began the reorganization
of Plaintiff Order in further pursuance of his said fraudulent
scheme and misrepresentations; that he succeeded in inducing
many people to believe his representations and to put up the
money necessary-for reorganization of Plaintiff’s Order and
the building of its temple in Sail Francisco; that said people
devoted their time and money to said enterprise until they
finally became disillusioned and learned the truth about the said
Lewis and Plaintiff Order and withdrew therefrom; that after
running amuck with the prohibition officers for the alleged mis­
use of the sacramental wines, said Lewis was again suspicioned
or accused of violating the law of the land, whereupon he very
promptly denied any connection whatever with his so-called
Order or any Rosicrucian Order and ‘folded his tent like the
Arabs’ and ‘silently’ secured passage to Tam pa, Florida.
X X III.
"T hat about the year 192-t or 1925, when the said Harvev
Spencer Lewis moved the headquarters of Plaintiff Order to
Tampa, Florida, in further pursuance of his said scheme, and
by continued misrepresentations of Plaintiff Order, his own
attainments and authority, the said Lewis induced a certain
citizen of Tampa. Florida, to contribute or furnish a consider­
able sum of money tor the locating of his headquarters in
Tampa, the building of a temple there and for a wide and ex­
tended campaign of newspaper, magazine and circular propa­
ganda, by which lie succeeded in greatlv enlarging the contrib­
23
uting and paying membership of Plaintiff Order. However, not­
withstanding his apparent financial success, all was not well in
Tam pa, and he abandoned his said headquarters in Tampa,
Florida, and the ‘Magnificent Rosicrucian Temple’ which the
said citizen thereof had built for him.
X X IV .
“T h at shortly after the moving of his business, the Plaintiff
Order, to Tampa, Florida, the said Harvey Spencer Lewis
began, and has continued to this day, a campaign of high-
pressure advertising of Plaintiff Order through magazines,
newspapers, pamphlets, by use of the United States mails and
radio, as well as other modern means of advertising, using allur­
ing, deceptive advertising, appealing to the selfish instincts of
humanity, seeking members and supporters indiscriminately
by questionable methods and ways entirely contrary to the
principles and landmarks of the Rosicrucian and Masonic F ra ­
ternities and of every other high-class, mystical and occult
organizations.
X X V .
“T h at one of the favorite, subtle, deceptive methods of the
said Lewis, constantly employed by him in the furtherance of his
said fraudulent scheme, from its inception to the present time,
has been and is the creating of mythical, fictitious persons and
by alluring description building them up and representing them
to be noted, renowned, learned experts of various types, and
also of taking ordinary natural persons and by a subtle method
of propaganda, misrepresenting and building them up until they
appear to be persons of renown, ability and unusual attain­
ments ; that not only has the said H. Spencer Lewis built up
mythical and other persons as aforesaid, but he has also used
the same deceptive, subtle methods in building himself up and
representing himself to be a most extraordinary person of ex­
tremely unusual attainments and supernatural power, and of
high social, scientific and educational standing.
1 X X V I.
“T h a t although it is well known that the said H. Spencer
Lewis has never attended any college or university that may
of right confer the degree of Ph.D., and that he only attended
the public school of Xew York City, from which he did not
graduate, vet, nevertheless a short time after he conceived said
gigantic fraudulent scheme he tacked upon his name the degree
of P h D ., representing to the world that he was a Doctor of
Philosophy, whereas in truth and in fact, the said Harvey Spen­
cer Lewis never attended any recognized educational institution
such as is qualified and authorized to grant said degree, and
that said degree is fraudulent and fictitious and used in further­
24
ance of his said scheme.
X X V II.
“T hat of all the many methods and means employed by the
said H. Spencer Lewis in the execution of his said fi-audulent
scheme and the promotion of Plaintiff Order, the most unworthy
and disgusting of them all, that reveals and stamps him as the
supreme scoundrel of the age and the greatest impersonation
of ‘nerve supreme’ and bald-faced audacity the world has ever
known is his constant practice of conferring upon himself fic­
titious titles, as 'are used in Plaintiff’s literature and advertis­
ing matter, such as follows, to w it: H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C.,
120Illuminati, Toulouse, France; Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, H.
Spencer Lewis, P h.D .; H. Spencer Lewis, Doctor of Meta­
physics and Psychology; H. Spencer Lewis, Dignitaire Su­
preme of the Rosicrucian Order; H. Spencer Lewis, Fellow Rose
Cross; H~. Spencer Lewis, Fellow of the France Ecole R. C .;
H. Spencer Lewis, Rex Universitatis Illuminati; H. Spencer
Lewis, Grand M aster General; H. Spencer Lewis, Im perator;
H. Spencer Lewis, Most Perfect M aster Profundis, and many
others equally false and absurd; and also the audacious and
brazen practice of conferring upon himself of fellowships, re­
sponsible offices and ‘high honors’ in many societies and insti­
tutions of learning, art, music and science, real and fictitious,
as published in the literature and advertising matter of Plaintiff
Order, such as the following, to wit: Fellow of the Rose Cross
College of France; President of the New York Institute for
Psychical Research; membership in and high honors conferred
by the International Fine Arts Society in Europe, the Societe
Philomatique of Verdun, France; the Internaciona Ciencala
Societe of Spain; Societe di Arti e Cienci of France, and many
other fine arts and dram atic societies of Europe, which he
falsely claims the Plaintiff Order represents in America.
X X V III.
“T hat another favorite, subtle, deceptive method constantly
used by the said Lewis in the execution of his said fraudulent
scheme has been, and is, the writing and publication of articles,
sketches, statements, proclamations, ‘pronunziamentos,’ etc.,
under fictitious names, nom de plumes and deceptive devices,
some of which are after the manner and in imitation of some
early and perhaps real Rosicrucian writers, others wholly con­
ceived and concocted in the diseased imagination of the said
Lewis; and the employment of strange terms, foreign names and
historical characters, real and fictitious, with a view of mystify­
ing, bewildering and deceiving others into believing that Plain­
tiff Order is a real, ancient, mystic and authentic occult order,
fraternity or brotherhood an d /o r that it is a genuine and
25
worthy organization, as represented; that among many of the
names and terms so used and employed by the said Lewis are
the following, to wit: Royjtle T h u rsto n ; Roy/tle Thurston,
Ph. D .; Roy/le Thurston, formerly a professor of Psychology
of Columbia Scientific Academy; H atchuep; Ancient R. C .;
P th a ro s; Veritas, 6th Degree; Moderatrix, S. R. C .; F ra Fi-
deles; Peusator; Magus Veritas; Simplicitas; Profundis X I I ;
Rex Lux; F rater Lumminus; F rater Illuminati; F ra te r Cos­
mos; F rater Alexandre: Chevalier, K. R. C .; F rater G am ui;
F ra te r Selvius; F rater Tam m artus; Supreme Colombe Zina;
Puritia; F rater Deigne: Factor Luminis; Sri Ram atherio;
M aster A m atuof; Agrippa X °— 32°, R. C. 8°; Rama, and
many others far too numerous to mention herein.
X X IX .
'“
T h a t while he was employed in M clntire’s said Magical
Store on Forty-second Street, in the City of New York, the said
Harvey Spencer Lewis became acquainted with certain chemi­
cals that would affect zinc by turning it a yellow or golden color
and the necessary ingredients to accomplish said effect, together
with all the paraphernalia in connection therewith; that a
short time after he had organized the Plaintiff Order in the
City of New York he had the audacity at one of the meetings
of said order to invite newspaper reporters to witness the
transmutation of zinc into gold, and thus by such trickery and
deceptive illusionary means he intended and hoped to mislead
the public into believing that as Grand M aster General of said
PI aintiff Order he possessed most extraordinary secrets and
occult powers as a part of his purpose and intent to carry out
said fraudulent scheme arid to gain additional members and the
consequent initiation fees and dues.
X X X .
'‘T h at the said H. Spencer Lewis, in the furtherance of his
said scheme, has organized other institutions or claimed to
have organized the same. >onu: or all of which in fact only exist
upon paper and have no real organization that are also used
in connection with Plaintiff Order as mere devices and vehicles
for the carrying out of said fraudulent scheme and the accom­
plishment and fulfillment thereof; that among such associated
organizations, fictitious or real, was and is the Pristine Church,
organized by the said Harvey Spencer Lewis while he had his
principal place of business ;uid his Plaintiff Order in San F ra n ­
cisco, and of which the -aid Lewis became ‘The Most Worship­
ful, Perfect, Profound. Profundis Bishop,’ or words to that
effect; that acting in such capacity, the said H. Spencer Lewis
purported to and attempted to perform legal and religious
ceremonies of marriage, although and notwithstanding the said
26
H. Spencer Lewis has continually represented that the Plaintiff
Order and all institutions associated therewith were entirely of
a non-religious and non-sectarian character.
X X X I.
“T hat as a p a rt of and in furtherance of his said scheme,
the said Harvey Spencer Lewis, along about the year 1915 or
1916, created ,from his imagination a mythical history of the
origin of Plaintiff’s Order, giving it an origin dating back into
the night of time, before the beginning of civilization, and, in
an indirect, elusive and general way, falsely connecting it with
well-known historical characters, kings, rulers, philosophers
and divines, purporting to correctly and accurately describe
his own connection with the Rosicrucian F raternity in France,
his initiation therein and his w arrant of authority from a Rosi­
crucian organization in said country, and also purporting to
be a history of his said order in the United States and in Amer­
ica ; that he represented it to be ‘A complete Authentic His­
tory’ of Plaintiff Order, whereas, in truth and in fact, it was
nothing of the kind, but a gross misrepresentation and juggling
of facts; that during the years 1916 and 1917 the said H. Spen­
cer Lewis published said complete authentic history of Plaintiff
order in Plaintiff Order’s official magazine and again revised
and republished the same in said official magazine about the
year 1927, and-still again revised and republished the same
about the year 1929 in a book entitled ‘Rosicrucian Questions
and Answers, with Complete History of Rosicrucian Order,’ by
H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Im perator of the Rosicrucian Order,
and still further revised the same and published a second
(edition) thereof in the year 1932 ; that no two of said revisions
of said history agree with one another, but the same are a mass
of irreconcilable, deceptive contradictions.
X X X II.
“T hat another favorite, subtle, deceptive method employed
by the said Lewis in the execution of his said fraudulent scheme,
with a view of falsely leading others to believe that Plaintiff
Order was a p a rt of a revived world-wide movement of the
original and authentic Rosicrucian Fraternity, was to represent
that Plaintiff Order was in constant touch with said falsely
alleged and wholly fictitious world-wide movements, by and
through its representatives or ‘Legates’ residing throughout
the world; that in the said year 1915 in said ‘Official Publica­
tion Number Two,’ on page X V II thereof, he published a list of
said alleged representatives or Legates, said list and the de­
scription thereof being word for word as follows, to wit:
“ ‘T H E FOREIGN LEG A TIO N OF T H E O RD ER IN T H E
27
U N IT E D STA TES.
“ ‘The following Legates have been selected and appointed to
represent the American Order in their own countries. Each
forms a link in the Rosicrucian chain of strength, fellowship
and influence which encircles the earth.
R epresentation................................................Legate
Lower E g y p t ........................................ Luke Boctor
Upper E g y p t........................Emanuel S. Camilleri
Bombay...............................Prof. G. Magala Desai
Madras Presidency. . . Chavakar Annasame Rao
Ceylon........................Mohamed Ismail, I. G. 0. H.
Bengal.............. Sir N. Irnathellickerjo Lemindar
British W est Indies............Miss Louise Aitcheson
Central Am erica..........................Miss C. Arrhenins
Mexico...........................................Miss C. Arrhenins
Costa R i c a ........................Mine. Ellen Clemenston
P a n a m a ...............................Mme. Ellen Clemenston
England...............................Lady Florence Burgess
Scotland.............................................M ary A. Baker
P o rtu g a l.............. John Jose de Macedo, Y. B. S.
Spain..................... John Jose de Macedo, Y. B. S.
New Z e a la n d .......................... Prof. George Brown
South A frica................................. Miss Anna Brew
West A f r i c a ......................................Thomas Hahn
East A frica.................Sir William Samuel Grant
C h in a ............................................. Lady Ida Brooks
A u stra lia ...................................... Miss M. Earsman
Germany ............................................. Jacobus Muir
France.................Raynaud E. de Bellcastle-Ligne’
’’Thai- a photos tatic copy thereof is hereto attached and
made a part hereof, marked ‘Exhibit B ’; that he thereafter
continued to publish said list and/or similar lists in the official
magazine and other literature published by him under the name
and guise of Plaintiff Order: that the names on said list or lists
so published as foreign representatives of Plaintiff Order were
wholly fictitious except in only two or three instances, where
the name(s) of the natural persons were wrongfullv and fraud­
ulently used without the knowledge or consent of such per­
sons; that during the month of April, 1916, Alfred Saunders,
then a member of Plaintiff Order and the accredited editor of
the official magazine, wrote to all of the persons, fictitious and
real, set forth on said lists and directed his letters to them
with legal postage paid to and at the address of each furnished
by the said II. Spencer Lewis; that all of said letters were re­
turned marked ‘addressee unknown,’ or words to the same ef­
fect, except in two or three instances, where the persons so ad­
28
dressed replied indicating that they knew nothing of Plaintiff
Order and inquired to know what it was all about.
X X X III.
“T h at at or about the time that the said Harvey Spencer
Lewis organized the Plaintiff Order he represented and claimed
that the ancient secret work of the Rosicrucian Fraternity had
been transmitted to him in secret documents written in fictitious
hieroglyphics and in French and other foreign languages; that
he himself translated the documents in hieroglyphics from a mys­
tic key which had been mysteriously furnished to him and that
he employed expert translators of the other languages to trans­
late the said ancient and secret documents; that at various
times since he has claimed and represented to have received
other documents containing the ancient teachings of said Rosi­
crucian Fraternity and of other well-known occult and tlieo-
sophical organizations, all of which is false and untrue, and
these defendants here and now allege that said Plaintiff Order
and the said Harvey Spencer Lewis do not now have in their
possession and cannot produce a single ancient document, as
claimed by them, in hieroglyphics or in other foreign languages,
except certain phony, fraudulent documents made, manufac­
tured and concocted by the said Harvey Spencer Lewis or his
associates or under his direction.
.. X X X IV .
“T h at the said H. Spencer Lewis, in the furtherance of said
scheme, represented and claimed th at the lessons, teachings and
degree work of said plaintiff organization was transmitted to
him in ancient documents, written in hieroglyphics and foreign
languages, and that the same were translated into the English
and thus made available, all of which was untrue and false,
whereas in truth and in fact all of said lessons are modern in
their nature and have been copied from books available to the
public and/or were compiled from the fertile imagination of
the said Lewis and/or by others recently employed by him to
compile the same.
X X X V .
“T h a t the said H. Spencer Lewis, in furtherance of his said
scheme, has copied a great deal of material from old and rare
books not in general circulation and not generally available to
the public and also from recent and copyrighted works and
books and has published the same representing the same by
positive representation, by inference and by innuendo to be
his own and original with himself; that he has republished the
same in the form of multigraphed lectures, which he has sold
and. distributed to the members of said plaintiff organization
in consideration -of their payment of initiation fees and dues,
29
and lias also published the same in pamphlets and books which
he or Plaintiff Order has sold to said members and the public
at large, thus building up a large and lucrative publishing
business, which he conducts under the trade name of the Rosi­
crucian Press as a printing and publishing department of the
Plaintiff Order.
X X X V I.
“T h at when the said II. Spencer Lewis left Tampa, Florida,
under compulsion and the force of necessity, about the year
1927, he removed his place of business and Plaintiff Order to
San Jose, California, where he has built a magnificent temple,
provided himself with spacious and luxurious offices and estab­
lished a large printing and publishing business with his ill-
gotten gains, secured by the operation of Plaintiff Order in the
manner aforesaid; that since said time he has been, and is now,
operating Plaintiff Order as a device in furtherance of his said
fraudulent schemes.
X X X V II.
“T h a t when the said H. Spencer Lewis first located with
Plaintiff Order in the City of San Jose, by his artful and de­
ceitful methods he soon won the confidence of the good people
of said city and the general approval of Plaintiff Order; how­
ever, as time has passed and they have had time and the op­
portunity to appraise the true worth of the said Lewis and
have-gradually learned the true nature and character of Plain­
tiff Order, operated as an unusual device and an entirely new,
clever and unique ‘racket,’ the said H. Spencer Lewis and
Plaintiff Order have gradually fallen into general disrepute to
such an extent that these defendants verily believe that it will
not be long until the said H. Spencer Lewis and Plaintiff Order
shall again go into ‘the silence,’ seek(ing) greener pasture and
another location and domicile for the rebirth and'or re-estab­
lishment of Plaintiff Order.
xxxvni.
“T hat first and last, from the time the said H. Spencer Lewis
first organized Plaintiff Order to the present time, he has con­
tacted through said Plaintiff Order as a device thousands of
persons, some of whom were quick to discover the true nature
of Plaintiff Order, others tarried longer, were slower in getting
their eyes opened, and still others who remained to be fleeced
more and longer, and although the membership of Plaintiff’s
Order has been a constantly changing one, with new suckers
being constantly brought in by said high-powered methods of
advertising, nevertheless, first and last and during said time,
the said Lewis, through Plaintiff Order as a device, has col­
lected from said members in initiation fees and dues large sums
80
of money, with which he has. enriched himself, his family and
so continues to carry on his deceptive propaganda and fraudu­
lent scheme as aforesaid.
X X X IX .
“T hat recently, to w it: within the past two years, a large
number of the contributing and paying members of Plaintiff
Order have been making careful investigation of it and have
learned the truth about the said H. Spencer Lewis and Plaintiff
Order and withdrawn their support, which has steadily decreased
its contributing membership and income; that during the said
time many other persons, organizations and institutions moved
entirely by worthy motives and interested only in truth, ju s­
tice and the protection of the public against swindlers and
racketeers, have made independent and impartial investigation
of Plaintiff Order and have all discovered the true character
of Plaintiff Order and its ‘Most Perfect M aster Profundis,’
H. Spencer Lewis; that by reason thereof Plaintiff Order has
gradually fallen into disrepute; that these defendants verily
believe that said independent and impartial investigations will
continue, making it increasingly more difficult and finally im­
possible for the said H. Spencer Lewis to continue to operate
Plaintiff Order as a fraudulent device and as a racket extraor­
dinary, and that by virtue alone of its inherent vice and fraudu­
lent nature Plaintiff Order will disintegrate and pass from the
face of the earth'and from among honest people and worthy
institutions, as it rightlv and justlv should so do,
‘ xxxx.
‘‘T hat the injury and damage claimed and alleged by plain­
tiff to have been sustained and/or suffered bv it is the natural,
approximate and probable result of its own fraudulent nature
and its deceitful and unlawful acts, and further that the loss
of reputation, future injury and damage anticipated bv the
plaintiff will rightfully and justly be the natural, approximate
and probable result of its own fraudulent character and the
fraudulent and unlawful manner in which its affairs and busi­
ness have been and now are being conducted, and that said in­
jury, damage or loss of reputation suffered or about to be
suffered by the plaintiff is not and cannot be the natural, ap­
proximate or probable result of any act done bv these defend­
ants, or either of them, or that mav possiblv be committed bv
these defendants, or either of them.
“W H E R E F O R E defendants pray, and eacli of them prays
that plaintiff take nothing by its complaint and that these de­
fendants, and each of them, mav go hence with costs.”
E U G E N E B. G RATTAN,
Attorney for Defendants.
31
“ S t a t e o f C a l i f o r n i a
“ C o u n t y o f S a n t a C l a r a
“ G e o r g e L. S m i t h , being first d u l y sworn, deposes and says :
T h a t he is one of the defendants in the within entitled action;
that he has read the within- amended answer to the plaintiff’s
complaint and knows the contents thereof; that the same is
true of his own knowledge except as to matters therein stated
on his information or belief, and that as to those matters he
believes it to be true.
“T h a t affiant makes this verification for and on behalf of
all the defendants in the within entitled action.’’
GEO. L. SM ITH .
GEORGE L. SM ITH .
Subscribed and sworn to before me,
this 1st day of March, 1933.
“M. F l o r e n c e T a y l o r ,
“Notary Public in and for the County
of Kern, State of California. ”
( n o t a r i a l s e a l )
F IL E D
Book...................P a g e .......................
1933, Mar. 9, P. M. 2.00
F. E. S m i t h , Clerk Kem County, Cal.
By A. M. C h a p l i n , Deputy.
S t a t e o f C a l i f o r n i a 1
C o u n t y o f K e r n f ’ ’
I, F. E. Smith, County Clerk and ex-officio Clerk of the Su­
perior Court, do hereby certify that the foregoing to be a
full, true and correct copy of the original on file in my .office
and that I have carefully compared the same with the oi-iginal.
Witness my hand and seal of the Superior Court, this 11th
dav of March, 1933.
F. E. SM ITH ,
County Clerk avd ex-officio Clerk, Superior Court.
B y G. A . B r o w n e ,
( s e a l ) Deputy Clerk.
W e
A n r i e n t a n i i f H u s t i r a l ( W r i te r
I N T H E U N I T E D S T A T E S O F A M E R I C A
ITS HISTORY, PURPOSES
A N D S Y M B O L I S M
B y~ H . S p e n c e r L e w i s , F . R . C.
(1 2 ° I l l u m i n a t i . T o u l o u s e , Fr a n c e )
THE PUBLICATION COMMITTEE,
AMERICAN SUPREME COUNCIL
n n s a p Q r u r i s
OFFICIAL PU B LIC A TIO N
N U M BER T W O
A. M. O. R. C.
Copyrighted 1915 and Issued by*
"EXHIBIT A”
AMERICAN OFFICERS
The following Officers of the Grand Lodge of
America constitute the Foundation Board for the
United States and Dependencies:
H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C..
G rand M aster G eneral,
A ddress: N ew Y ork City.
Thor Kiimalehto, K. B, C.,
Secretary G eneral,
Office and R. C. L ibrary, 80 F ifth A ve., N. Y. City
T reasu rer G eneral,
A ddress: 1126'iintairA rseiR ie, N. Y. City
MAY B A N K S-S T A C E Y , S. R. C., M atre.
N IC H O L A S S T O R M , K . R. C., D ep u ty M aster G eneral.
M iss A D A L IN E W H E E L O C K , S. R . C..
Secretary, A m erican S uprem e Council, A . M. O. R. C.
oAIl com m unications regarding m em bership, Initiations
and dates of m eetings, should be addressed to th e S ecretary
G eneral. A pplications for State o r Local L odges, courses
of reading or study, and official private correspondence
should be addressed to the G rand M aster G eneral. All
rem ittances should be m ade payable and ad d ressed to the
T reasurer G eneral.
W M .-B -M ..SIM S , Prelate and Organizer-at-Large.
"EXHIBIT B”
R * C S j/m b o lis m
T lte sitfn-r a n d s e a ls sAoufa> ielo u ? arc
th e only tri^e rttarliT o f t/te ORDER., and c?/ju
tinguish- th is so ciety fr o m <?// oth ers.
W
G*n*ratSymhoi o/*
the Order int/te Wor/d
J W }
V
TheSea! ofthe Founder
zh
V
The S ealandSign,
o fthe Secretary-Gen.
Emblem urorn by th&
'BrothersjndSisters
v
TJte Great Seal oftfie
/mencan Supreme Council
S*?n °f theJfmerican.
publicationC
bm
m
ttfY*
c°j>
C - l l O
o
Xhe Vtosae Crucis
( o / f i c i t l j
Great Sea? o f
GrandJfasier General.
C
opyrtgh/p
c
/ /S/S. fyfrintfemenff *
>
>
//6epraXrctst^.
The S^creef Jrrsiyntk
^fthe Or^ndJHcister (Pen.
"EXHIBIT A”
THE FOREIGN LEGATION OF
THE ORDER IN THE UNITED STATES
The following Legates have been selected and ap­
pointed to represent the American Order in their own
countries. Each forms a link in the Rosaecrucian
chain of strength, fellowship and influence which en­
circles the earth.
Representation Legate
Lower Egypt .............................................Luke Boctor
Upper E g y p t.................................Emanuel S. Camilleri
Bombay .....................................Prof. C. Magala Desai
Madras Presidency.............. Chavakar Annasame Rao
,Ceyloa ...............................Mohamed Ismail, I. G. O. H.
Bengal .......................Sir. N. Irnathellickerjo Lemindar
British West Indies.......................Miss Louise Aitcheson
Central America ...............................Miss C. Arrhenins
Mexico ............................................... Miss C. Arrhenins
Costa Rica ................................. Mme. Ellen Clemenston
Panama ...............................Mme. Ellen Clemenston
England 77.................................Lady Florence Burgess
Scotland ...............................................Mary A. Baker
Portugal ........................John Jose de Macedo, Y. B. S.
Spain.............................. John Jose de Macedo, Y. B. S.
New Z ealand...................................Prof. George Brown
South Africa .......................................Miss Anna Brew
West Africa ...............................................Thomas Hahn
East Africa ........................ Sir William Samuel Grant
China ....................................................... Lady Ida Brooks
Australia............................................... Miss M. Earsman
Germany .......................................................Jacobus Muir
France-........................ Raynaud E. de Bellcastle-Ligne
"EXHIBIT B
