{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__durant___exposition_or_a_new_theory_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Exposition Or A New Theory Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
Q
EXPOSITION,
OIL~
NE"\V THEORY
or
ANIMAL· MAGNETISM,
'III'ITB A.
KEY TO THE MYSTERIES:
DEMONSTRATED BY EXPERIMENTS
WITH THB
•
HOST CELEBRATED SOHNAHBULISTS IN AMERICA.:
~0, STRICTUR£1! OM
~COL. Wll. L. IITONE'8 LETTER TO DOL'T• .t.. BRIGH.ol."
...
BY C. F. DURANT.
"Step e&utioao, for beneath lieo hid
'"The key to Time's dark my11teries.
"'Twao buried before its birth-
" So aleepa unnan1ed; but it may live;
" A. whisper eaUo II fonb-speak low-
" 'Tia Tuoay !"
Chold4it imcripliDft 011 a lomb tltnlt.
NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY' WILEY & PUTNA.M, 161 RROADWAY.
PIJN'I'IID 81' 1, JI.UUIIJI, 11 'III'UL 8?1U1111'1 CO&:dll o• BIUI.AoD.
1837.
Digitized by Google
•
Enter•d according to Ar.t ofCongress, in the year lltl7, hy ·~&lllca :\arin•, i• the
Clerk'• q6ice of tho District Court of the ~>utboru District uf l'iew Y~rk.
Digitized by Google
•.I
• ..
,. .. .
Digitized byGoogle·
' .
CONT.ENT S.;
CHAPTER I.
OJUGIN OF ..UCIBA1- llAGlliiTISK;
A llnid-118 etrecu on Eve-Elfecla on Child.len-Gipoies'-SD&kea charming bim.-
~rceey-Witcherat\-Curing burns by charms-Legislation against Natural Lawe-
Queen Margaret-Fortune ·.xelling-Magaetizer and Somnambulist In one-Propbec1
-Singular prediction in the hiotory of Jo•cJ>hine--.Tranec at Camp Meetings-Nata·
ral Somnambulists-Mias Jane C. Rider-Reading with lnvilllble eyes............ 14
' CRAPTEil H.
IICIENCiil OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM FOU)tDED.
Dawn of the science in Germany-Opinions or its eau•e and effect-Used in tbe cure
of diseases-Antony ·Mesmer, his progress in Franee-Conimiaoionera of the King,
cheek the progreso of the seienee-Mainauduc- His triumph iR England-Theory
at that time-The Church of England arrayed against the seienee-"Divine attribut<.,
ol Animal Magnetism....: .................................. .. .. ............... 21
CHAPTER Ill.
A KBW J:KA IN ANIMAL MAGNJ:TISM (WITHOUT THEOKY) DNDEK DJ:LJ:VZE.
De Puysegur discovers Somnambulism and CiairvPyanee-Triumph of the ocienu
under Deleuze-His history-defence or the seienee-Folssac obtains a new examin·
ation of Anlm~l Magnetism from the Royal Society of Medicine-Report or the COlli• .
miaaionera-Proors of the magnetic lluid-Deocriptlon of Somnambulism-CiairYoy-
anee, its mysterious and supernatural elfeeto...... ;.. •.... .... •.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 38
CHAPTER IV.
FlllST INTKODt1CTION OF THJ: MAGlfliTIC SCIII~C· IN AJI&BICA.
Charlea Poyen St. Sauveur lectures at Pawtucket-Triumph of the science under }'ayen
-New converto&ftd disoipl-Evidenees offered In support of the doctrine-Its won-
derful attributes-References to prove the truth of the seience-Case·of ClairvoyaDee
-Case of paralyaing a limb-Etfec~ of the will-Readin& loUera with invisible
eyea.• •••••··•••••••••••••••···········•••••••••••••-••••••·••••••··········· . . 4i
CHAPTER V,
THB AVT.0&1S FI.ST BXPIIRIMKNT IN ANIMAL MAOXIITI8JI IN TRB CITY OF
NBW YORK.
Autllor'a opinion o( the science-A· branch of Electricity-Introduction to profeo110r
Andros-Ris history-Somnambulic sleep-Extraordinaey eases of Clairvoyanu-
Mro. Aadros, her hiatoey-First experiment in New York-Wonderful effects on the
brain or the Author-Falls in a.magnetic aleep-Reverie-Poetieally inspired-Solilo·
quy-Resolves on mighty dceda,. ............................................. , •• 53
CHAPTER VI.
AUTHOK111 N&W THJ:ORV OF 4NUI4L MAGNBTISM.
~ter Ia cRao4ie wasa, &lobule• in the formation of the univcue-Atwoaphete-w·ater-.
Inanimate matter--\niwala-Man-llaiJnetie.. lluid-Eioetrieity-L<ladston~-MafAeto
Natural aleep-.Magnetic sleep-Polarity of Man-Cerin-llli properties~Knowledge,
eom;,unleated by uiagnetle cords-Fluid carriea off diaeaaea., ............... , •• 73
Digitized by Goog[e
CJUP'l'ft '11·.
IIIC:OJID unatKL'n Ill .I.JlmU JI&~IX Uf DW YOaL
Objeetiotlalo now theory over-ruled-Cue af,William W..mrortb e:aplained-Cue of
Ilia Parker explalned-Dre~~~~-Bapld conception of tho braln-Coplaln wfonr'a
8.1perlence In thoucllt-Theory proved b)' experlmeot-Coannloaa to tbe new
theory-Brlabt future........ . ... .... •... •.. •.•.. • .... •..•• .. •.. •.... ••.. •.. ..• 80
CHAPTER VJD.
THiaD U:PSIJJISNT llf UIJIAL JIAGifSTISJI IN •aW YOU.
Flaid forced tbrouah a wall-Tranamiulon ofthe maanetic lluld-How alfected-Tbeory
contlrmed-lmportant ootea ntceosary to be read In order to bo weU understood !B
CHAPTER IX.
FOIIBTH UPIIaUIENT IN AJCUIAL lllAGN8TJ8X 1• JSRSIIY CITY·
Mrs. Androa deaeribea thlnga in Boatoo-Deaerlbea things in Calcuua-Sceptiu-
Fluid forced thJouch four waliR-Polapty ptoved-Vecy important notea, not 1o be
oYerlooked...... .... .... .... ..•• .... •... .... •.. •.... .... .... •... .... •.. ••.. •.. 92
CHAPTER X.
PIFTH IIXPSUXIIIfT IN ANIHAL XAG'IfiiTISX IN JEHSY CITY.
Mra. Androa aoea ia spirit to New York-Thinas are darkiah-Bome talk about bleediDg
-Somnambulist eriea and jumps-Panl)'zing the II'Ul-Explanalion of erying-
Theocy In bad odour.............. •... .. .. •.. .. .. .... .... .... .... •.. ••.. ••.. •.. 97
CHAPTER XI.
IIXTH UPBBIMJ:IfT IN AIIUMAL MAONBT18H 1• ltfSW YOaJt:.
hatereatiac diacuaaion about the bleeding-Bright pnoapecta of the future-Fluid entera .
throuch wall a little before Ita tlm<>-'-lnterelling notea about cutting oft'an arm.... 100
CHAPTER XII.
atiVa.TH AlfD atoHTH :axpaatHIINTI lltf AIIUlllAL MAGNSTtaH ""' NBW vou.
Mro. Androa m better health-Extraordioacy eft'ect of the lluld-Forced throuch fifty
walle-Beautiflll eft'ect ofthe theory-Author willa bimaelf In magnetic communica·
tion-Explanatlon-Notea wlllch oucht to be read......... ...................... l(tl)
CHAPTER XIII.
NINTH JIXPJ:BIJIIJ:NT IK AlflllfAL XAONETISX IN NEW Y081[.
Mrs. Androa deac:rlbes fumitura In tho ail)', and in Brooklyn-Gets In the wronc
houae-Gete out again-Beautifu~ effect of the '' will"-Tbeory more llrmly esta·
ltUahed-Notea ofImportance, which ue well worth the trouble of readlnc..... . 114
CHAPTER XIV.
Tllli'TH AND MOST IMPOBTAifT I!:XPSBIXIINT IN ANIMAL JIAONSTIIIX
nl' KIIW Y08K,
Carin produces the moll wonderful eft'ec~ by cuttiDI oft' the magnetic lluld-Cau"
wh7-Tbeocy permanently eetabUebed qalnst all oppoaltion-Moat ready for a
lecture ...;..................... . .... ............ ......... ... .......... ........ 19>
CHAPTER XV.
FIUT LBCTtllll Olf AlflllfAL lllAONSTI8M BY THII AVTH08,
PhllGIOpbical reuonlnc on the lneldenta conn•cted wltb ennta-Mra. Androl coe• to
Pro•lclenc&--lmportant dlaeloauree madQ 1o Mr. Androa-Macnetle eleep ahown 1o be
ao lloep at all-Plana of crea& promlae for the tllture......... . ...... .... •.. • .. 115
o:gitized by Google
vi
CRAP'l'EJl XVI.
IIUnlftR, TWIItri'H AlfD 'I'RIRTJIJ:KTII IIXPli&IKRln'll IIf Alflllli.U. KAOIR'I'II.,
AT PIIOVIDJ:Ifca, a. I,
Jlln. An<lr.~t~ -• nt> better II home than abroed-TuoiiT rl•lnl in the world-Min .inn
K11Ja Bbon feellqu~er-Thlaka 1he Ia ulee~n• ller eyel by the new theory
lfter beln1 burned to death-Mqoetlc: eomnambullllm ill ado&-HII cue 11 dnerlbed
to the ootn.. , .......... , ............................... , ........... , ... , ... , .. 140
;.;" CHAPTER XVII.
POll'RTJIJ:liTH J:XPI!BIMJINT IN ANIKAL KAGNJ:TISIIJI AT PBOVIDJ:a'Ca, B, I.
Profenor Cleavaland1e eomnambnliet II Pawtuxet-Mu. Aodrol thought it wu the
paper box-Thought he 111 there-It looke atrange-Whlte Houee !-Nine gentlewea
-R.emarkably"orrect-Key to Colooel8tooe'a picture hletory................... IU
CHAPTER XVIII.
PIFTKSNTH J:XP&RIIIJIJ:NT IN AJrlllliAL IIJIAGR'J:TIIK AT PROVmaa-ea.
11111 Loraina Brackett-Her true portrait-Can diatinguiola object• very well-Beau a
newapaper-Hears a koife-Seas much, but ean'ttell-llees a noise !-Shine the COt·
ton-tee, I aee it-Don't want to tell-Can read a letter-Let her read this...... 119
CHAPTER XIX.
BIXTI!&NTH J!XPI!RIKJ:N'r IK Aa'IIIJIAL XAGifi!TISIIll AT PBOVIDJ:IfC&,
Miss Parker saw a diaeaaed spleen-Hears a book and knife-It Ia paper, but ilain'~
Not quite uleep-Magnetlzed a little more-Ilia M, but it aln't-Pantomlme-'How tM
man whipo that child-Theory never worked better-CoL Stone's picture in the
notes.................................................................... , .... 173
CHAPTER XX.
lUTJICTe Or TRJ: AVTHOB18 THIIORY Of' AlflllliAL IIJIAGNJ:TIIIIJI.
Rev. Profeaeor Daniel Greene, his matvellous works-Professor A. Potter-Sorry
wrote it-According to the theory-Can't count money-Can't look II a watch-Beware
of my Uaeory................................................... . .. , .. ... .. • 1 SO
CHA.PTER XXI.
IJ:VIIIfTJIJ:IfTR AND J:IGHT&SNTH U:P&RIKJ:KTB IN AlfiKAL MAGN&TIIK A7
NJ:W YOJU[.
)(loa Ayrea-Magaetlc conTUiaiona-Author sees thonghte with invisible eyea-Sbe
bears tho wrong hand-Can't see my theory-1 thought eo, too-Myateriouo dreate
of the Author-Chipa turned to money-Exchange Yery high-Notes ahould be
liken up.and read............................................................ lSi
CHAPTER XXIT.
IKPOBTAifT FACTI! U:LATIIfG TO THE HISTORY Or ANIIIJIAL KAGlQTI8K.
Pblloeophlw nuuble-1 never think ofsuch thing- I am e&llaficd they are asleep, and
that Ia eno118h-But I aln'I-Myaterlouo llmoaphere about the author-Did yon aay
eo-No-Letter of David M. Reeso, M. D.-Mrs. Androa again In New Yori<-llhe.
muatt!11nk she 1\uleep-Tella a great deal better-(:an•t tell whll ticket draws the·
blah prize in thalouery-Balaneeefauountfn thenotea.......................... D
OIUPTBR SXIII.
IITIIICTVIIIIII o• COL, IVJ[, L. BTOlfli'B L&TT&R 70 DOCTOR A. IIIIGKAJij O•
• ~ KAGifliTI8M,
IAtler......................................, •••••••••••••••••••·••••••••·•••,•••• 214
Digitized by Goog[e
DEDICATION.
To PROJ'ESSOR WAYLAND,
PRESIDENT OF BROWN UNIVERSITY:
SIR,
In·reviewing the eminent names which adorn the literature
and science of our country, to find one most worthy to receive
the dedication of this book, I was surprised to find among so
many advocates for the beautiful science of Animal Magnet-
ism, so few, who like yourself, have dared to step fearlessly
forth in its defence against a sceptical warfare.
Your name stands isolated and far above all other disciples
of the immortal Deleuze. Doctor Nott, Colonel William L.
Stone, and the thousand,other disciples of this beautiful doc- ·
trine, cannot compare with your great influence and heroic
conduct in disseminating the tenets of Animal Magnetis~.
There may be others whose "wills" are equally strong in the
doctrine, but they lack your influence and courage, and per-
haps not a few of them ''retain a faint impression'' of the
immortal sentiment-
" He that in the war gets slain,
May never live to fit:ht again."
But you, Sir, have fearlessly defended your TALISMAN-
you have braved the front of battle, &nd you alone deserve
the dedication of a work which forever must pla~e the science
of your choice beyond the possibility of doubt. Your letter
of introduction and recommendation, in your .own hand writ-
ing, to professor A. V. Potter, An. Mag., has done more to
Digitized by Goog[e
I
viii
gain converts to the doctrine of Animal Magnetism, than all
the books that have been written on '' remarkable interviews.''
Professor Potter has exhibited your letter to thousands ; it
has served him for a passport, and the thousands who read it
have exclaimed, " Well, if Professor Wayland is a believer,
then there must be something in Animal .Magnetism, and I
fltill be a believer too."
It is, Sir, the great influence of your name in the promul-
gation of the science, in the making of proselytes, and the
silencing of hardened unbelievers, as well as a sincere admi-
ration ofyour brilliant talents and sound judgment, which have
induced me' to offer this small token of respect, and to pray
that you will authorise this dedication of Durant's Theory of
Animal Magnetism.
Very respectfully,
Your obedient
and humble secyant,
Tl,le AUTHOR.
Jersey City, 7th Oct. 1837.
Digitized by Goog[e
•
INTRODUCTION.
In the parliamentary discussion of any important subject,•
a few prefatory remarks on the part' of the speaker seem es-
sential to prepare the minds of his hearers to receive with
due force the evidences he may offer on the question at issue.
As an author, I have promised much, and no less than a
key to the mysteries of Animal Magnetism. I am aware of
my responsibility to the public in promising to unfold the
arcanum of a pretended science, which has confounded mil-
lions, and which after a condemning scrutiny from special
agents appointed by the French government, and another
condemnation from a special commission by a scientific in-
stitution; is again on the ascendancy,. and claiming for its vo-
taries thousands of the scientific and intelligent men in all the
civilized portions of the globe. But I have no fears as to the
resultof a careful perusal of this book: the evidences ate too .
numerous, and too convincing to admit hereafter of·doubt.
Some objections may be made to the plan of the work,
and particularly to the four first chapters : but a moment's
reflection, by judicious minds, will convince them that such a
plan was appropriate and judicious to the full accomplishment
of the object in view ; satire may reach and conquer some
minds, who would be deaf and insensible to the arguments of
reason. The best satire on a false doctrine is to award to
-/... it all the attributes which its deluded vot~ries claim for their
idol. I have done no more and'no ress, in sketching the rise
X
and progrftBII of Animal Magnetism up to &Ue wue h was first
introduced i~ ~ N:orth American Statea,
The discUBsiOD may bear hard on some names that are th•
.subject of remark, and some sensitive minds m~ty eveO<consi·
der me cruelly severe : but to such and to all I would say,
think ~ the necessity of the case-think on the loud call
from justice which prompted me to the l&Sk. I would glad~1
have avoided offence to the sensibility of the meanest creatur:e
•on earth ; I had a higher and nobler obje~t in view, delicacy
hac;{ been offended, good sense had been offended, llPd human-
ity was offended with this vile infatuation claimin~ with mer·
cile~ grasp for its victims, millions of both lie;l[es in the
commlmity. To stay such offences, to redre!ls such \Vrongs,
to ~riye at"the goal of success, it was necessary to be severe.
Justic~ prompted me to sting with the lash of truth, all objects
that impeded my course•
. The step I have now.taken is not without retlection on the
respect dq!' to the feelings of others, and of my own respon-
sibilities, both moral and legal, in making characters truly
eminent in society the subjects of public remQrk and rebuke.
A few unimportant errors may have occurred in th~ min~r
details of the history, and these when pointed out, I will
cheerfully corr~t; Qn the w~ole, l have asserted nothing but
truth, and· stand prepared to defend all that I have written,
.against the denial of whomsoever may take offence at any
part of the narration. I have not asked·permissioq to publish
names ; and the best apology I can offer for such deviation
from such established usage, is, that the names were important
to my argument, and coul,d not well be dispensed wiah ; ·the
necessity of the case must serve for my excuse.
I have yet more valuable evidence in support of my ar-
Digitized by 00gle
XI
gument, which I have omitted to give in this book, because
I have already given more than sufficient to carry full convic•
tion to all minds open to the evidences of truth ; more evi-
dence, I juctged, would fatigue the reader; and I have already
exceeded the number. of pages contemplated in the com• ·
mencement of the work. ,
It is usual for authors on their first intrOduction, to express
~reat diffidence of their own abilities : but as•· I atn giving~
truths and not fiction, I will here at least express my true
_
sentiments, and candidly avow that I feel no diffidence and
-
no fears as to the success of the wo,rk. I at least think that
I understand my subject, and feel conscious of possessing
abilities to meet all opposition which may arise to thwart the
'accomplishment of the object in view.
· I am aware of the stubborn madness possessed by persons
infatuated with a false doctrine, and the improbability of sud-
denly restoring them to a correc~ sense· of reason. I am
also aware that among the large immber o(enthusiasts, whose
keen sensibilities will be touched by my remarks, there are
many eminent writers, who will probably take up the pen to
hurl vindictive curses on my head. To such men, and _to
all critiCs, I would say, my demands are the anniliilation of
Animal Magnetism, the establishment of truth Qn the founda-
'{ tion ofnature's known and invariable laws, against the crazed
usurpation of a wild and unholy infatuation ;· abd f now stand
in the breach, and ihrow down the glove;
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER I.
ORIGIN OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM •
.!1 fluid-its r;ffects on Eve-effects on Children- Gipsies-
Snakes charming birds-Sorcery- Witchcraft-Curing
burns by charms-Legislation against Natural Laws-
Queen .Margaret-Fortune Telling-.Magnetiser and
Somnambulist in one-Prophecy-Singular Prediction
in the history of Josephine- Trance at Camp ~7Jfeetings­
.A.atural Somnambulists-Jifiss Jane C. Rider-Read-
ing with Invisible Eyes.
The origin of Animal Magnetism is coeval with the crea- •
tion of Eve. The extremely subtil and invisible fluid, which
when in contact with the animal brain, is capable ofperform-
ihg all the phenomena of this wonderful science, hnd existed
millions on millions of years anterior to the creation of man,
. and is probably coe\·al "'ith the birth of the trilobite, or evin
with creation itself. The sun's rays must pass through a
suitable medium to cause the phenomenon of light-so this
invisible fluid continued unknown, though not inactive, until
some ·of its inherent properties were developed in passing
through a suitable medium, which was found to be the com-
plicate and delicate brain of the highest order in the organized
forms of creation.
The smallest insect, the most simple form of ''egetation,
and the more noble formation of matter in man, were all me-
diums through which this fluid ever has, and still continues
to flow, producing all the symmetry, beauty and phenome-
na of nature, which, to superficial minds, are scarcely no-
ticeable, because they are of such frequent .and even inces-
sant occurrence, and are classed with the phenomena orthe
• Digitized by Goog[e
15
earth' only the first time the brain receives their impression
by the force of that mysterious fluid through the medium of
the senses. A child is in mute ecstacy at the first sound of
the spring-rattle. ·He sees it; the my~terious fluid perva-
ding all space, instantly impresses on his brain, through the
delicate lens of the eye, the form of the instrument from
which such strange notes had proceeded. He leaps with joy
when he perceives it is made of wood, and analogous to oth-
er forms of things, long since familiar to his senses, by re-
peated examination of the impression of similar objects re-
tained in the vast store-room of the brain. He ·seizes with
• delight the play-thing, and wonders that an instrument so
simple in its construction, could have caused him to·womler,
when the strange music caused by its vibrations were first
. transmitted to his ear. He continues the manipulatio~s and
finds amusement in the harmony of &ounds, until the sympa-
t~y of the nervous system, that accurate tuning key of nature's
wind-harp, softens the harsh tones of the rattle: when the ·
whole fo'rms a perfect chord on the brain, which COf\tinues to
amuse the senses, until monotony fatigues the imagination,
and a new and more curious phenomenon is sought for; pro-
bably in the decomposition by fire of the very toy which
once sent forth such strange sounds to the ear. He scarce-
ly ceases to wonder at the flame issuing from his lighled
torch, when he is called to the window to scan a still
more marvellous phenomenon in the air, " a kite ! a kite!,.
a paper kite, buoyed aloft with a simple thread, is npw the
object of mute astonishment, followed by loud demonstra-
tions of joy, as the mysterious fluid conveys through the ea-
ger distended eye to the brain, a perfect impression of the
object which first held him mute in astonishment.
16
The mo'st learned among men are but children in embryo,
when their researches in science are compared with the vast
and unlimited field which remains unexplored. Innumerable
are the forms imprinted on the brain in the life time of man.
Each form was a phenomenon ; each in turn became familiar;
the whole becomes monotonous, and the imagination, aided
by the inventive genius of the brain, seeks among the count·
less millions of forms in creation for some new phenomena
to feed the insatiate vortex of familiar monotony.
In the eager desire to reach after phenomena, the reasoning
fatuities are dormant, and man is capable only of admiring \
the wonderful effect on his l>rain without knowing the cause \
which produced it; when, with less eagerness· and more rea-
son, man qould refer to his brain, which ever retains the im-
pression received from innumerable objects, among which
may be ·discovered forms sufficiently analogous to reconcile
the most wonderful pheno·menon to the known and familiar
laws of nature, continually in operation around us; so the
effects of Animal Magnetism continued to be seen, felt and
admired in its various modifications, long before it received
a name among the sciences of the £:arth. In a subsequent
chapter, I will give the theory which harmonizes and recon-
ciles all the phenomena attending this science, and show the
natural causes continually operating to produce it. I will,
likewise, divest it of every supernatural attribute which its vo-
taries and opposers .are so zealous in ascribing to it. Enough 1
for the present chapter will be to show its origin, its rise, and \
developments, under the various \Vrongly applied names of
charms, sorcery, beguilements, fortune-telling by the Gipsies,
and witchcraft of the ancients and moderns.
The same fluid, which now unperceived by the keenest
a2
Digitized by Goog[e
17
eye, is flowing through all organized matter, supporting life,
when in a just equilibrium, and producing the effects called
ANIM.\L MAGNETISM, when forced from its natural channel,
was in existence from the creation, and commenced its un-
natural effects on our r\lce in the garden of Eden. The be-
guilement by the serpent was merely the effect of this myste-
rious fluid operating on the brain and nervous system of
Eve. The same fluid held Adam in magnetic sleep when he
committed the unholy deed, for which, we, his posterity, are
doomed to suffer as penance. The snake at all times has
used the same fluid in subduing the feathered tribe. The
charm attributed to this animal, is the self same magnetism
which is now the subject of wonder in its effects on the brain
ofcivilized man. The sorcerers of India knew the power of
this fluid, and used it for the vilest purposes of deception.
Witchcraft in all countries, was a branch ofAnimal Magnetism;
it was the effect of the magnetic fluid, called a '' volition of the
''"ill'' emanating from the witch by the animal force ofthe nerves;
the "bewitched" was the needle obeying the will of the mag-
net, and exhibiting all the phenomena common to the present
science of Animal .Magnetism. The pointing downwards of
a crotched stick to indicate a stream of water flowing through
the earth; the rat-catcher's charm, and the soothing power
possessed by many of curing scalded and burned flesh, are
volitions of the will, and modified branc;hes of this heretofore
intricate science.
The Gipsies, as a community, probably knew more of the
astonishing power to be derived from the magnetic fluid
than any collective race of beings on the globe. Their ac-
curate predictions of future events are now subjects of histo-
ry, and thou~ands of the most respectable inhabitants of Eu-
lb
rope have test1tied to the perfect fulfilment of events predic,.
ed by this people. Their origin and habits of life are as cu
rious as their magnetic phenomena. It is supposed that the:
~ame from Hindoostan, from the fact that their language r"'
sembles in all its parts the Hindoostanee, notwithstanding the)
have been dispersed and wandering nearly four.centuries in va-
rious parts ·or the earth. Like the witches in our own country.
the Gipsies have been persecuted in civilized Europe. h
1530, we find penal statutes against them in England ; a sub.
sequent act, made it death for them to continue in the king·
dom; and it is recorded, to the disgrace of England, tha
thirteen were executed for this offende alone, but a few yean
prior to the restoration ; this cruel act was not repealed un-
til 1783, when the science of Animal Magnetism was suffi-
ciently improved to show the injustice and inhumanity of le-
gislating against the laws which Nature designed to be estab-
lished for some benevolent purpose to mankind. The Gip-
sies were expelled France in the middle of the sixteenth cen-
tury, and Spain in 1591. Though expelled by statutes, they
have not been entirely extirpated in any country ; they arc
still numerous in Asia, and the northern parts of Europe, and
their collective numbers are estimated at nearly a million of
souls. Though scattered over the globe, they retain their
similar and original character and habits ; their principal bu-
siness is fortuqe-telling, in which they succeed to an extra-
ordinary degree, by the aid of the magnetic fluid, which they
are so long accustomed to use, that they far surpass the best
magnetic somnambulists of this country, not excepting Mrs.
Andros, Miss Brackett, Miss Parker, Miss Ebon, or Miss ;..
Ayres, of magnetic celebrity in Providence. Having wit-
nessed experiments with all these ladies, and having seen
.Digitized by Goog[e
JO
some of the magnetic experiments with the Gipsies, I do not
hesitate to declare in favor of the latter, for accuracy in predict-
ing future events, as well as for the more extraordinary power
of" Clairvoyance" manifested in the magnetic sleep, by see•
ing through inn'umerable envelopes of paper, and annihilating
distance; which· they travel in spirit, although thousands of
miles distant from the body, and tell in one minute what is
being transacted in the harem ·of the Sultan, while the som-
nambulist's body may be in Providence or France.
Grellman, who wrote the history of the Gipsies, and in-
deed all persons who have been much acquainted with · the
habits and manners of this interesting race, regard them as a
\'ery singular phenomena; they are not changed by climate,
and the sword has not been able to extirpate them. In all
countries they are the same wandering tribe, living in small
huts, and though subject to the laws of the country in which
they reside, they nevertheless have their own ·government as
a community; the head of which is termed '' Queen of the
Gipsies." · Many of them attain a very advanced age. Mar-
garet Finch, who died at Beckenham, in Kent, Oct. 24th,
1740, lived to the extraordinary age of one hundred and nin~
years ; Margaret held the title of queen: after.travelling near-
ly a· century, she settled at Norwood, where her extraordi-
nary powers in Animal Magnetism, (denominated " fortune-
telling" hy the superficial philosophers and unlettered people,)
attracted, as it does in all countries, numerous visitors of the
u1ost respectable families in the country.
"From a habit of sitting on the ground, with her chin resting
on her knees, the sinews at length became so contracted that
she could not assume any other position. After her dea'th,
they were oblige.d to enclose her in a deep square box. Her
20
funerai was attended by two mourning coaches ; a sermon
was preached on the occasion, and ·a great concourse of peo-
ple attended the ceremony. Her portrait now adorns the
sign-post of a hotel in Norw·ood, called the Gipsey House.
In an adjoining cottage, resides to this day, the grand-daugh-
ter of queen Margaret ; she inherits the title of queen, and
has reached a very advanced age." She is the niece of queen
Bridget, ·who was buried at Dulwich, in 1768. She inherits
a knowledge of the magnetic fluid, and continues to practice
with great success. She is unlettered, like all the race of this
extraordinary people, and therefore her powers are not suffi-
ciently systematised to rank.iq the sciences, and though de-
nominated " fortune-telling" by some, and "supernatural
· revelations" by others, it is, nevertheless, a branch and most
constituent part of the science of Animal Magnetism.
A vc~y extraordinary feature in the magnetic po~·er of the ·
Gipsies seems to have escaped altogether the notice of scien-
tific men, and Animal Magnetizers in particular. I allude to
the great difference in the manipulations or process to pl·o-
duce magnetic somnambulism ; it is well known by all who
have witnessed experiments in Animal Magnetism, that the
somnambulic Sleep is produced by the " volition of the will,"
as .it is termed, from the magnetizer, and tl1erefore requires \
two persons to produce a magnetic somnambulist. When
it is equally well known by all who have had the pleasure of
witnessing the Gip::;y experiments, that each one within them·
selves, is both tlie magnetizer and the magnetized, without
any fluid whatever emanating from a second per11on ; the vo-
lition of each will, instantly forms hs own brain into a ~om­
namoulist, who can, not only travel instantly to any part of
the globe, and with an ~:litraordinary power of " clairvo:;-
Digitized by Goog[e
21
ance," tell the situation of things and passing events, but·
likewise look into futurity for hundreds and even thousands of
years, and predict with much accuracy the time, place and
circumstances to be connected with extraordinary events.
The pages of history are prolific in the fulfilment of such pre-
dictions. I will select one from the thousands on record, to
confcund the most skeptical OffOSers of the science, and carry
conviction to the most stubborn unbelievers, of a fluid which
has existed in all times and in all ages, and is constantly of-
fering to our senses the proofs of its power, when directed by
a skilful magnetic somnambulist. The case I would ofler,
is that of the Empress Josephine, the consort of Napoleon.
Her character stands above the reach of suspicion, as regards
an extenuation of the extraordinary prophecy; and its equally
extraordinary fulfilment is too well known by all persons, to
require any extr,acts on my pc:rt frcm history, to prove it. I
will relate the circumstance in Josephine's own words; and,
reader, if you are an unbeliever in Animal .Magnetism, cb-
serve well your own emotions, while perusing the prophecy,
you will feel the very hairs raise frcm your head, caused by
the transmission of the same magnetic fluid, which enabled
the sable African, when in St. Domingo, to predict for years
in advance, the events connected with the history of France,
equally as important and extraordinary as the fall of the an-
cient Jerusalem. Read it; it is from her, who under the
most trying situations and circumstances, proved the most no-
ble, as she was the most amiable of her sex.
"One day, some time before my first marriage, while taking IIJY usual walk,
I observed a number of negro girls assembled round an old womnr, tnga~:ed ill
telling their fortunes. I drew uear to observe their proCt>edings. The old sibyl,
on behol•!ing me, uttered a loud exclamation, and almost by force s~iztd my
hand. Sheappeared to he under the greatest agitation. Amused at theee ab·
.aurdities, as I thoullhl them, I allowed her to proceed, aayin(, 'So you 9iscovar
•omething extraordinary in my deftiny '!'-'Yea.'-'Js happmese or miafortlltle
Digitized by Goog[e
to be my lot1'-'Mi•fortun~. Ah,etop l-and happmHs too 1'-' You take care
not to comn•it yourstlf, my good dame; your oracles ore not the most intelligi-
ble.'-' I am not permitted to render them more clear,' .aid the woman, raising
her eyes with a mysterious expression towards heaven.-' But to the point,' re-
plied I, for my curiosity began to be excited; 'what read you concerninl!' me
m futurity 1'-' 'W hot do I see in the future 7 You will not believe me· if I
speak.'--' Yes, indeed, I usure you. Come, my good mother, whht om I to
fear and hope1'-• Ou your own head be it then; listen: You will be married
soon ; that union will not he happy; you will become a widow, and then- ·
then you will be Quem of France! Some haRPY years Will be yours; but you
will a:e in an hospanl, amid civil commotion.'
"On concluding tllese worde," contiutHd Josephine, "the old woman burst
from the crowd, and. hurried away, as fast as her limbs, enfeebled hy age, would
permit. I forbade the bystanders to molest or banter the pretended prophetes!>
on this ridiwlous prcdidion; and took occasion from the seeming ab:mrdity
ofthe whole proceeding, to caution the young negresscs how they gave heLd to
such matters. Henceforth, I thought of the affair only to lou!!h ot it with my
relatives. But afterward, when my husband had perished on the ecaf!old, in
spite of my better judgment, this prt:diction forcibly recurred 'to my rniud ofter
a lapse of years; and though I was myself then in prieon, the trnnsaclion daily
assumed a lcoM improbable character, and I ended by rcganiing the fulfilment
as almost a n~>~tter of cour~e." ·
The event of this extraordinary prophecy is well knO\"i'n.
Her second marriage was to General Napoleon Bonaparte,
9th March, 1796. On the 18th May, 1804, ·was fdfilled
the prophecy of " Queen of France," and the circumstar.ces
attending her death are equally well known. All France had
been a " slaughter house," and all France was a "hospital" ·.
at the time of her death.
This black woman, like the Gipsies, was capable within
herself of controlling the magnetic fluid; she was both the
magnetizer and somnambulist; she required no assistance from
a second person to put her asleep. She was able by her
O\vn will to draw the magnetic fluid fro~n remote spac'e .m:d
even from·futurity, through her O\vtl nervous system and brain,
which thereby received an impression of all things past, pre-
sent and future, which -could readily, by the assistance of
speech, be made known to the inquirer, who for want of a
true philosophical·reasoning would be unable to see the ana-
logous workings of the magnetic fluid in objects around h:m,
and lost in amazement, would prol}c unce the oracle a super·
Digilized by Goog[e
•
•
23
natural phenomenon, and the magnetic somnambulist or for•
tune-teller in concert with some unknown and mysterious
power.
This superiority in the Gipsy and African sorcerers over
the more scientific magnetizers, induced me· to pursue with
more zeal my inquiries in Animal Magnetism. I admire sim-
plicity, and have generally observed that Nature's most per-
fect works are always most simple. I planned my experi-
ments, with a view to ascertain if the somnambulist could riot
magnetize herself, and my efforts were crowned with the
most perfect success. The process is extremely simple and
every one who will read these subsequent chapters, no mat·
ter what may be the state of his or her nervous system, or
age, can be a Somnambulist, and Magnetizer, within them-
selves, without the aid of a second person, and perform all
the phenomena common to Animal Magnetism.
In describing a few of the various forms under which the
magnetic phenomena have appeared, since the serpent's con-
quest in Eden, until· it assumed a name among the sciences,
I would notice the phenomenon called TRANCE, frequently
developed at protracted meetings, for religious rites in church- ·
es, and more frequently in the forest, under the name of
camp meetings. The trarices are too well known to need
much description fr9m me in this place. I will notice them
more fully, when I explain the causes which produce it.
r It is the e1rect of the same mysterious fluid; the person
.ffected by it suddenly falls in a magnetic ·sleep; they are
thea magnetic somnambulists, and perform all the phenome-
na peculiar to Animal Magnetism ; thejr spirit frequently
leiVes the body, and af~er traversing the confines of earth, re-
turns to its case of organi~d clay., and there, through the or-
Digitized by Goog[e
gans of speech, relate to the wondering crowd the incidents
actually·occurring at that moment, perhaps thousands of miles •
distant, in some cavern or convent, . secured by walls and
doors of cemented stone and iron, impenetrable to sight or
animal strength of mortals in possession of the ordinary func·
tions of life. Even more, they have been known in the short
space of an hour, to travel in spirit to the regions o.f punish·
ment and reward for the dead, nnd on awaking, have related
the cheering and heart-rending scenes to thousands ofthe most
respectable witnesses, many of whom afe preachers and can
testify to the frequent occurrence of Stich facts. The phe-
nomenon known as "clairvoyance," is in the trance quite as
remarkable as that exhibited in the usual magnetic sleep, and
even far exceeds that of reading a letter through various en•
velopes of paper, or of teiling the time by a clock, in a re·
mote or adjoining building or room.
Another class of phenomena which. belongs- to.this science,
• is the "clairvoyance" exhibited by natural sonambulists. A
very extraordinary case occurred in Springfield, ~Iassachu·
setts, in June, 1833, and continued for nearly one year. My
readers are undoubtedly aware, that I refer to the case of
Miss· Jane C. Rider. A very scientific description of her
case has been published by professor L. W. Belden; M. D.
her attendant physician. I will hereafter show the cause of
this phenomenon, and for the present will merely dte the
words of D"r. Belden, to prove the "clairvoyance" of Miss1
Rider.
"On Nov. lOth, it was proposed to ascertain whe~her
she could read with her eyes closed. She was seated in a
corner of the room, the lights were placed at a distance from
her, and so screened as to leave her i11 almost ·entire dark..
Digitized by Goog[e
ness. In this situation, she read with ease a great number
• of cards, which were presented to her, some of which were
written with a pencil, and so obseurely, that in a faint light
no trace could be discovered by common eyes. She told
the date of coins, e'.'en when the figures were obliterated.
A visitor handed her a letter, with a request that ~he would
read the motto on the seal, which she readily did, although
several persons present had been unable to decipher it with
the aid of a lamp. The whole of this time, the eyes were to
all appearance perfectly closed.
" She fell asleep while I was prescribing for her, and her
case having now excited considerable interest, she was visi-
ted during that and the following day by probably more than
a hundred people. To this circumstance undoubtedly, is to
be attributed the length of the paroxysm, for·she did n0t \vake
till Friday morning, forty-eight hours after the attack.
" During this time, she read a great variety of cards, writ-
ten and presented to her by diflerent individuals; told the
time .by watches, and wrote short sentence~.
"For greater security, a second handkerchief was some-
times placed below the one which she constantly wore over
her eyes, but apparently withotJt causing any obstruction to
the vision. She also repeated with great propriety and dis-
tinctness, several pieces of poetry, some of which she had
learned in childhood but had forgotten, and others which she
had merely read several years since, without having ever
committed them to memory. A colored girl came in and
seated herself before her; she \vas asked if she knew that la-
dy ; she smiled and returned no answer. Some one said:
she has a beautiful complexion, has 'she not? Jane laughed
heartily, and said 'I should think she \\·as somewhat tanned. ' ,.
· o;9itizedbyGoogle
26
The high respectability of Miss Rider, and the probity
.od undoubted science of Dr. Belden, precludes the possi·
.)ility of doubt in the case referred to. The o"'y error,
which is common to all the preceding cases, was, attributing
the phenomena to some special supernatural cause, il'Jstead of
classing them where they certainly belong, as a branch of the
science of Animal Magnetism; which can be clearly demon·
strated by the well known and analogous laws which govern
the universe. It is left for me to perform that task, which l
hope to accomplish s·o clearly, that a child may control the
science, and all persons be able at a glance to range all the
phenomena produced by the magnetic fluid under its proper
title.
I have thus noticed a few of the various phenomena pro-
duced by this mysterious fluid, from the creation of man un-
til the middle of tke eighteenth century, when an ap~rent
new phenomenon was produced by certain manipulations and'
voUtions of will, producing sleep on persons affected with
nervous irritability, and performing numerous cures in those
9Ubmitted to the action of the fluid, supposed to be transmit-
ted by the operator's manipulations and volition of will. This
new phenomenon received the name of Animal Magnetism,
fl'Om the unusual physiological effe~ts being produced by the
will of another animal (man,) employing a fluid, supposed
analogous to that which gives tl1e magnetic property .to iron.
This new science, afforded a broad field for philosophical!
hypotllesis, conjecture and research ; the principal agent
(fluid) was invisible, yet producing by its agency, the most
wonderful, and to many, supernatural effects on the physiolo--
gical constitution of man. The superstitious requi~d but a
.sight, or even the description of a single case, to bring them
Digitized by Goog[e
27
in the pale of its followers. Scientific and philosophical rea•
soners gradually became its supporters, and drew with them
a large p10portion of the less scientific, though more sensible
and intelligent, to worship at the shrine of this partially oc-
cult scif!nce, the phenomenon of which, would be the foun-
dation ofa new theory, (to be raised on the ashes of the Mo-
saic, Copernician and Newtonian,) whose canopy would
overnrch cosMOGONY, and whose stntcture would elicit the
spontaneous production of life.·
CHAPTER II.
SCIENCE OF ANIMAL MAGNETlSM FOUN.DED.
Dawn of the science in Germany-Opinions of its cause
a¥ effect- Used in the cure of diseases-.!Jntony .Mes-
mer, his progress in France- Commissioners of the King,
check the progress of the science-.Mainauduc-h.is tri-
umph in England- Theory at that time- The Church
of England arrayed against the· science-Divine attri-
·butes of .!Jnimal .Magnetism.
In the first discovery of this new science, somnambulism
was rare, and "clairvoyance" unknown. It remained for
other more ingenious philosophers to discover, by repeated
experiments, the most extraordinary faculty of travelling in ·
spirit, to see and communicate the situation of things thou-
sands of miles distant from the body of the somnambulist.
Enough, however, was known to inspire the most enthusias-
tic and wild expectations. Its principal uses was curing of
diseases, and exhibitions of its wonders, to gratify the cu-
rious, with lectures to instruct the uninitiated in the manipu•
lations necessary to produce the phenomenon. So~e of its
Digitized by Goog[e
•
i8
advocates claimed for it pO\\·ers of a·very superior order, and
asserted it was a divine inspiration given to m~n for l:e·
ilevoleot purposes, and to be wrested from his grasp lhe
moment his object should be perverted to base and unholy
designs on his race.
Among the most fervent advocates of the science at that
time, was Antony Mesmer, born at Wieler, in, Germ&ny.
He taught publicly the doctrine; wrote several treatises on
the science·, and performed many wonderful {:Ures by the aid
of the magnetic fluid, during an extensive travel which he
performed throug.h Gerrcany, Swabia, Switzerland, and Bava-
ria. Wonder followed his footsteps and fame heralded his
approach in advance. He f.rrived at the .French metropoFs
in l iiS, where he performed many wonderful cures, wh:c h
drew to the standard cf Animal Magnetism tkousands of 111
classes in the community, who embraced the doctrine in its
fullest extent, and hailed the discQvery of the mag~etic fluid
as a panacea to remove all manner of diseases, and to renew
and invigorate age. Enthusiasts in the cause were not want·
ing, who claimed an immediate divine revelation·for the pow~
er, and indeed the very manipulations to produce such extra-
ordinary results, induced the most sober philosophers among
its votaries, to believe the \\'hole science of Animal Magnet .
ism a supernatural phenomenon.
Such high pretensions in a civilized country, might well
be supposed to create opposition from those fearful of an en.
tire perversion of the established laws and order of society,
Its advocates became enthusiasts ; its opponen~ grew loud.ir.
their delJ)ands on the civil authority to suppress it. The
King's government instituted an inquiry into its pretensionf
and ~rits. The commission was composed of men of ex•
Digitized by Goog[e
'
ahed character and scieQCe, chosen from the Royal Society
of Medicine, and the French Academy of Science. Dr.
Franklin, then a Plenipotentiary from the United States to
the French Court, was one of the commission. M. D'Es-
lon, who wrote a treatise entitled, " Observations sur le
,Jllagnetisme," was a member of the Royal Academy of
Medicine, and a firm disciple of Mesmer, who pronounced
him a powerful magnetizer.
From this gentleman the commission obtained the most of
their experiments ; perhaps because of evasion on the part
of Mesmer to furnish suitable opportunities for investigations.
Be that as it may, the commission reported against Animal
.t\Iagnetism in 1784, and the weight of their characters and
decision had sufficient influence to suppress, only for ·a time,
the progress of _this science in France.
During Mesmer's experiments in Paris, other portions of
Europe felt the influence of this mysterious fluid. The sci-
ence was born and cradled in Germany, where the giant con-
tinued to disseminate light, and gain converts to the faith.
England furnisyed her share of its champions, and among
them was Mainauduc, whose success in healing the sick and
gaining converts to Animal Magnetism,_
almost equalled that
of Mesmer, in France. In some respects, Mainauduc was
~uperior ; his lectures contained more philosophical reason-
ing, and were therefore }.llore powerful in gaining converts
from the scientific and philosophical opposers of the science.
The following condensed summary, by Robert Southey,
from the lectures of Mainauduc, is the most philosophical
that I have seen, and conveys the best idea of the science as
practised in the time of Mesmer, before Somnambulism and
Clairvoyance were discovered in the patients under the m-
3uence of the magnetic fluid.
•
30
It is, likewise, more similar than any other to my th«Jry,
which accounts for and explains the last discovered phenom-
enon "clairvoyance," and which led to the important results
disclosed in the subsequent chapters.
· According to the science of Animal Magnetism at that
time,
';The earth, its atmosphere, and all their production&, areonly one, and ncb
is but a separate portion of the whole, occasionally produced and received bactt
into itself for the purpoee ofmaintainin~ a continual and regular rotation of an-
imate and inanimate substances. An universal connexion aublliata between
everv particle and mass of particle~ of this whole, whether·they be OOOipre·
hended under the title of solids or fluids; or distinguished by the particular ap-
pellation of men, beasts, birds, fish, treea, plants, or herbs; all are particlea of
the same original mass, and are in perpetual eye\~ employed in the work of
forming, feedmg, decornposin~r, and again re·formmg1 bodiea or ma-. A
reg"11lar attachment universally exists between all particles of a similar natnre
throughout the whole; and all forma composed in and ofany medium of parti·
cled, must he influenced by whatevereffects that medium, or setsita particles in
motion; so that every form in the earth and atmosphere, mll8t receive and
partake of every impulse received by the general medium ofatoma, in which,
and of which, they areformed.
All forms are subject to one general law; action and re-action produce h~t,
B'lme of their constituent atoms are rendered tl11id by heat, and form atreame,
and convey into the form atoms for ita increase and nourishment; this ia call-
ed compo!ttion by vegetstion and circulation. Circulation not only bringa in
particles for growth and nouriBhmeot, but it also carries off the 11t1elesa ones.
The pM~al!'es through which these particle8 psHs in and out, ore called pores.
By a pore we are to understand a space formed between every two solid atoma
in the whole vel!'etatinl!' world, by the liquefaction of the atom, which, when
solid, filled up that space. As circulation, vegetation, and consequently animal
life arise f10m theformation ofpores, so the dt'&truction of them must terminate
ever.y proceMs of animal existence, and each partial derangement ofporoaity
induces incipient destruction of the form, or what is called disease. .
By the proce~A ofcirc•dntion atoms of vftrirms kinds are carried in, deposited,
and thrown out of each pall of every form; and every form is sur~unded a~d
protected by an atmosphere peculiar to itself, compo$ed ol these paruclea ofetr·
culating flmds, and analol!'ous to the general atmosphere of the earth. This is
the general atmosphere of the form. The solid parts of the body throw oft in
the same manner their usele8s particles, but these pass off and become blended
with those of the l!'encral atmosphere of the etmh. These are called the emn·
nation• of the form. Thus then earth and atmosphere are onewhole, of which
every form is but a part the whole and all its parte are BUbjec! to the aame
laws, and are supported by action; a<:tion produces re-action; action andre·
action produce heat; heat produces fluidity; fluidity produces pores; pores
prot!uce circulation ; circulation produces ng~tation; . vegetatton produces
for.ms: forms are compllsed of solids and fluids; soli~s produce emana~1ons;
flmds produce ·atmospheres; atmospheres and emannttons produce parnal dP.·
composition; total decomposition is death; death and decomposition return
the atoms to the general mass ofre-production. .
The whole vegetating system is compnsed in miniaturtl in man. He ts com·
. posed ofpipes beyond conception numerous, and formed of paruclea between
B
o;9,tizedbyGoogle
31
which t~e moat m.inute porosity a.dmits, in every d!rection.• the paiiBie ofatoms
and tluids. The Immense quantity of a1r wh1cb 1a conunually paaa10g in and
out through every part and pore of the body, carrie• in with u such atom• as
may become mixed with the general a:modphere, and these must ~:ither pass
out again or atop in their p~~;ssage. If they should be ofa hurtfu.l naturllt they
injure the parts through wh1ch they pus or m wh1ch they •top; 1f, on the con-
trary, they should be healthy and natural, they contribute to health and nour·
iahment. Butchers. publicans, cooks, living m an atmo1phere of nutritious
substanc.e~, generally become corpulent, though they have sleAder appetites;
paiuters, plumbers, dyers, and those who are employed in atmo•phere• of per-
nicious substances, become gradually d1seased, and frequently lose the use of
their limbs long before decomposition takes place for their relief.
He1~ce it appears that the~ree circulation o.f healing atoms through the whole
form IS necessary, and that obstructions of Jts poros1ty, or stoppage ofits cir-
culating parncles, must occasJOP..derangement m the syftem and be followed
bv disease.i To otJv1ate th1s e1•ll, mnumcrable conductors are placed m the bo-
dy, adapted by their extreme sensibility to eomcy inf..;rmation ofevery impres-
sion to the sensoniJm; wh~eh, accordmg to the nature of the 1mpress10n or tbe
injury received, agitates, shakeR, or contract~ the form to 1hrust forth the of-
fc.ndmg cause. This is Nature's established mode of cure, and the efficacY of
the exertion depends on the strength of the system; but these,salutary efforts
have been mistaken for di~ease.
As every impression is received through one medium disposed over the whole
form for that purpose, 11 may be asserted that there is but one sense, and that
all these impressions nre only divisions of the sense of feeling. The accuraey
of ar.y of these d.visions depends on the health of the nervous system in gene-
ral. This nervous or conrlucting system is unly a portion of a much greater
one, similar in its nature but far more extensive in its employment.
There areinthegeneral atmosphereinnumeraLle strin~rs ofitscomponent atomF;
the business of the•e strings is to receive and convey1 from and through every
J•art of the atmo~phere, of the earth, and uf their inhal>Jtants, whatever Impulses
they receive. These conductors are to be called atmospherical nerves; the
nerves of the human body are connected with thesllt orrather are a part of them.
This is elucidated by the phenomena of sound. Theorists agree that sound
is produced in a tJell by the tremulous motion of its component aloma, which
alternately change its shape from round to oval a million of time~ in one in-
stant; as is proved by hor.zor.tally introducing a bar; into the aperture, which
eounter3cting one of the contractions, the bell split~. The conveyance ofsound
they account for, by saying that the atoms of the atmosphere are displaced by
the alternate contractions of the bell. Place a lighted candle near the bell, and
l\this theory is overthrown; if the general atmosphere is agitaterl, wind must re-
sult; but the flame of the candle remains stendy. Let us substitute the true
process.
Every impresliion in nature has its own peculiar set of conductors; and no
two sets interfere with, orimpede each other. The stroke ofthe bell affects the
nearest atom of the nerves ot sound, and runs along them in every direction.
Human nerves .are continuations of the atmospherical; all animated beings be-
ing only as warts or excre~cences, which have sprung uJ1 amidst these atmoa-
phericat nerves, and are permeated by them in every direction. The atmos-
pherical nerves of sound are parts of the auditory nerves in man; the atmos-
pherical nerves of light are continued through man to form his optic nerves;
and thus the auditory and optic nerves ofone man are tile auditory and optic
nArves of every animated bemg in the universe: because all are branche1 aent
offfrom the same great tree in the parent earth and atmosphere.
It may be· asked, ~bat prevents the derangement of these innumerable
Btrin~rs, when tile atmosphere is violently agitated 7 Aerial nerves are like
those ofanimated bodies compoaed ofatome, but the aloma are in I008er con-
32
taet. When a ray of sunshine comes through the bole in a window-shutter,
\1 the ~s arevistble, and the hand may pass through them; buJ they instantly
nresume their situations by their attracu~e connecnon.
Every inanimate substance is attached •o its similar: all animate and inani-
mate subatances are attached to each other by every similar part in each of
their compostuons; all animate bemgs ar11 attached to each other hy every
similar atom in thetr respective forms, and all these attachments are formed by
atmospherical nerves. li two muaical instruments perfectlf in 11niaon be pia·
ced one at each end of the same apar1men1, whatever note td struck upon the
one wiJ, be repeated by the other. Martial music may be heard by a whole
army in the field: each note has its peculiar conductor m the 11eneral atmos-
phere, lind each ear must be connected with the atmospherical conductor of
each note; so that every note baa not only its separate conductor in the at·
mo~phere, but also its separate conductor in every ear. We have got thr()ugh
the hypothe~is, now to the application. ·
The mind is the arbitrator over the bones, the mt•ecles, the nerves, and the
body in general ; and is that somet bing which the anatomist's knife can neither
dissect, cl1scover, nor destroy. l:lut to define what that something is, we must
apply to the words of our Saviour,-"It is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of
your Father wh1ch speaketh in you;" the decisions, adoptione, and commands
ofthts epirit are man's volition; but we are not accustomed to investigate the
means by which volition is ex~ried, nor to se~k for the privilege of improvinll'
it beyond the common necessary avocationsof life. Yet, if it be properly sought
for, a power of volition may be called forih in man in a far more exalted degree
than what he now exerts; a power subordinate to a far superior one, by whom
tt is portioned out to individuals according to the purposes tor which they exert
it, and which is parti~lly or totally recalled when neglected or abused. The
accomplishment of any purpose of the will, depends physically on the length
of time required for its performance, ana on the unclis·urbed continuance of the
act of vohuon during that time. The least interruption, or the change of the
will to any other subject before the first intention is accomplished, totally dea-
troys the mftuence. This axiom i~ un11lternble in trois new science of healing,
that to produce Ealutary tftects the suggestion must be pure and moral, the at·
tention stead1ly determined, thll intenuon single and fixed, and volition vigQr-
ously exerted, continuing unvaried and unrelaxcd either till the purpose is af·
fected or relinquished. ·
The atmosph~ncul part of the human body is capable of contraction, of dis·
tention, and of direction; it may be attracted from, ordistended to, any unlim·
ited d1atance; and may be so directed as to penetrate any other form in na·
ture.
The rejected atoms from the fluid, anti emanations from the solid parts of
bodtes, when rightly understood, are the only and unerring criterion by which
the obstructions and diseuses of each part can be II¥Certained; and when judt·
ciously employed, they become material instruments for the removal ofevery
malady. Ther are subject to the influence of volition; and may be forced out
of their natura .col!r~e, or attracted into the pores of the operator; and the ~~~­
·man bodv, wh1ch m many respects resembles a sponge, ts adapted to J'fcetve
such emauationa and atmoapberes as a 1kilful practitioner may propel into ally
part ofit, and to afford thllm a free passal!'e wherever he directa them. The
countlese number of universal nerns which combine with, and are regular
continuations of thoae similar conductors called nerves in animal forms, are
aubject to tbe·influeuce of man's spiritual velition, and are affected or influen-
ced if we strike one or more of them with the atotns which are continually
ftowing from us; that affection is conveyed on to such parts of the body as
thoae conductora are attached to, and the nature and deeree of the impul•e
·will be according to the nature of the intention and tbe energy of tbe TOii·
tion.
b2
Digitized by Google
33
To determiQe the situation, nature, and exlent of deran~rement or di,eaae, Je-
courae muat b4l had to the atoms wllich p~ from the patient; for there-
jected atoma resemble, in their healthy or di~t:aaed qualities, the parte ftom
which they paaa. The~t: particles of matter ore eo immediately aul>ject to the
influence of combined apiritual volition, that the eatabhehed system by which
they are mixed with the universal medium givei way during our exezuon, and
they follow the courae which we prescrib41; and wbalever may be the direction
or medium through which we propel them, they remain unalt.,rably the same;
and continue passive and unchanged either by distance, direction, or contract,
until we withdraw that influence and di>!charl(e them lrom our service.
To judge of the tltate of the part from whence theae atuma procved, they
must be attracted to some part of the examiner's body, and must strike hts
nerves; this proceltl is c11lled receivin~ in•pressians or sensations from the pa-
tient. Every substance in liature will alford some imptesston to that part of Ius
body which the experienced exr.miner opposes to receive it, but professors usu-
ally prefer th" bauds and especially the fiugers. Thu roo1s of the muls most
commonly announce the first impre•sions, because the cuticle is thinnest in
that part, and the pungent emanations more readily arrive at the nerves. No
part, perhaps, of this •stonishing science, says tbe lecturer, crcatt'S more jeal-
ousy among studems than their susceptibility of sensations. Some enjoy that
privilege to a great degree of accuraey, evcu at the first essay, whilst others are
m pursuit ofit for months. This difference is at first constitutional; but when
the science has prodn"ed a prop~r ihfiuence on 1h" mind and morals, the im-
pressions insensibly grow into accuracy. It sometimts hRppens that they w.bo
are most susceptil>lc at first, btcome totally depnved of that bl.,ssing unulthey
approve themselves more worthy servants. It ise~8Cntinlly ntcessnry to ren-
der the process ofrecetving the atoms emiued from ev..ry object fanniiBr; . this
will be effected by habizually seeking lor them. For 1his purpose students
should frequently receive the emanauond from salt, sugar, wat~r, lire, and in
short from every substance whtch occuu; by this meuus they soon become
expert.
There are two modes of examination; the first is that which sho•tld accu-
rately be allendcd to by newly initiated sutdents, liS it affords a cntalogue of
sensations which become u regulur standard w ju•Jgc of all dioeuses by, and to
reduce examin11tion to accurac:y and perfection. This mode con.,st~ in oppo-
sing one or both hant.is towan:s the pattelll. The exauuiuor ~hould sit or statu.l
in an easy position, cautiously avoiding all press•.1re on his body or nrma, leMt
. be should susptct the imprcsoions to proceetl from that cause ra1h~r !han from
the disease. He sho•tld fix on some particular J>art of th~ palicnt, r.xtt>rnal •·r
internal; then turnin~;: the backs of his huods, he must vigorously and steadily
command theemanauons and nttUOSIJhl'res, which pa•sfrom that part to strike
his hands, and he must closely attend to whatever imprc•eions arc produced
on them. He must n••l J'ermit his artt:ntion to wander frum the ohjecr; if be
should, his labor is enti,ely lost. To re11dcr the process more steady, the eyes
of the examiner •bould he fixed on 1hc part to which he is atrending with the
unnried intent of directing the fffiuent atoms towards his hands; it might
naturally be supposed that his eyes tihould be open, but is bclter they were &hut,
as all extraneous objects are l>y th·ll mean~ exclu:lccl, unrlthe l'"'""ity ,,f 1t.e
eyeltd~ removes lite iu.,a of itnll<'dillleut It IBI•erlt.ctly 1mmaterial what may
be the dislance between the examiner and the patiPnt; the process nn<l the im-
l>ressions. will be exactly the otune, pro\idcd he calls forth iu himself the requi-
stte exertton.
The second mode of examioa1ion i~ by opposin~ the whole body to that of
the patient. In this, th" opclralor must nut seek to know where the IJDtient i6,
11ut reco:Iecting that all human l>ein~s are connected to ench other hv innu-
ruernble atmospherical nerves, and that the wlwlc medium in whd1 they are
pineed is composed of loose atoms, he must fix his attention on ihe !)a t:ent as
II he stood before him. 'fhu~ situat~, he muat vigorously exert Jus powtr to
Digitized by Goog[e
t 34
attraet all the emanations anif atmo~~pheres proeeeding from the patient to him-
l!elf. The atoms then wbic·h proceed from each particular part ofthe palient run
to the same parts of the examiner, who feels in every part of his own person
whatever the patient feels in his, ohly in a less degree, hut always sufficiently
·to enable him to descrihe the feelings of the p11ti~n{, and to ascertain the very
spot in which the deran~ement exists, and the consequences resulting from it.
If tbe examiner's attention is directed only to one pnrucular viscua, that same
vtscus alone will receive information in btmself; hut if it b.e generally directed,
every part of his body will give an account of its own proceedings. It is to be
remarked, that undiseased parts will not convey 11ny rcm&rkahle impreesion to
theexantiner, as nothing results from health but gentle, ~oft, ~quuhle heat.
The mode of healing tA termed Treating;-it is a process made use of by the
operator to create, tfpartially obliteratBd, or to increa8e tf becom" languid, the
natural action and re-action in any part of the hody; and to assist nature by
imitating and re-establishing her own law, when she is become inadequate to
the task. This process is the opposite to the la•t; in that the examiner attract·
cd the acoms from the patient to himself, but in this he must propel the.atoms
from himself to the patient. By a steady exertion of~omponnd volition we have
it in our pow r to propel the particles which emanate from our own body against
and into whatever part of any other form we fix our intention upon, and can
force them in any direction and to any distance. Thu~ hy a continued and
regular succession of particles, directed vigorously in a rapid stream against
those atoms which are stopt in their passa!!e and accumulated into a heap, we
break down the imp~dunents, push off those atoms which we detach, direct
them into the circulating currents for evacmrtion, and save the system from all
the evil consequences which its impcd.,d functions were occasioning. 'fhis is
like throwing handfuls of shot at a henp of Mnd in a rivulet whtch, as the
grains of sand are separated from each 01 her, washes them along before it. As
all obstruction8 are not eqnnlly hard or comr>nct, they are not all destroyed with
tile same facility. A single look will often prove sufficient for a recent accu·
mnlntion of particle~; for an accidental contrAction or sudden distention;
whereas those of fl long standing and of a more serious nature demand frequent,
long, and jvdiciously varied treatment.
The l(eneral process of treatment is an influence ofmind over organized mat·
ter, in which urganized matter is the occasional instru01ent. The mind should
be able to perform this work without any particular motions of the body or of
it~ extremities. But, says the professor, inexperience and the frequent dtwturb-
ances which occur to divert the attention, induce u~ to adopt some mode of ac-
tion; the constant repetition of which may attract, ronse, or recall the mind to
its s11bject, when it becomes languid or diverted fro~ its employment. Hence,
he adds, we ~enerally urnploy our hands in the act of treating; and write, as it
were, our vartous intentions on each part of the motions we make towards it;
or, in fact, we trace on thediseased part with our current ofemanations tbe va-
rious curative intentions ofour mind or spirit.
The pathology is100n explained. The impressions produced upon the fin,11ers
of the examiner by the stone, will be beavrness, indolence, and cold. J)urns
and aealds produces heavy dull pricking at first; wheninflammation has taken
place, great heat and sharp pricking, but indolent numbnesa from the centre.
Rheumatifjadach occa~ions pricking numbneas and creeping or vermicular
mot;.n; h the patient be strong, cold, ifhe be relaxed. Inflammation cau·
.eed by oo ed wind produces intenee heat, pricking and creeping; the heat is
ooeaeioned b7 the inllammation, the pricking by the wind1 acting against the
obltnlcted poret; and tbe creeping by the motion of the wmd from ope part to
an.other. Pu• oomDIUnicalee to the hand of the e.xaminer euch a feelingof aoft-
neee-as weebOulil expect from dipping the hand in it, but combined with prick·
ing, from the metima which the wrnd contained in it ma:kee in its endenora to
escape. Diseaaed lung• make the fingers feel a8 if dough had been permitted
o;9otized by Google
35
to dry on them, tbia ia called clumsy stiJfneas. Pleuriey occasions creepinj',
beat, .and pricking: denfness, reaistance and numbness. Contracted ntrv~s
announce themeelvea to the examiner by a prell8ure round his .fingers, ae if a
sumg wasughtly bound round them; cases of a relaxed habit by a lengthened
debilitated sensation;diaeued spleen, or ovariea, by llspinning in the finger-ends
o.s if something were twirling about in them. The in•pressiOn which scrofula
produce.Bupon the praotitiontr, is curious and extraordmary : at every motion
wkich he make11, the joints of his finl(ers, wrists, elbows and shoulders crack.
Worms excite creeping and pinching; bruises, heavinesd in the hands and
numbneas in the fingere.
The Moduli Operandt mu~t now be exemplified; premiaing, according to the
professor's words, that the operator's own emanations become for him invisible
fingers, which penetrate the pores, and are to be conatdered as the natural and
only ingredient which are or can be adapted to the removal of nervous or any
other affections of the body.
Instead, therefore, of lithotomy, the stone may thus he cured without danger
or pain, This invisible power must be applied to the juices which circulate in
the vicinity of the stone; and they must be conducted to the stone and applied
to its surface, that the stone may be soaked in them for the purpose ofdidsolving
the gum which makeathe particles of sand eohere. Ifthe hands are employed
in this process, the mind must conceive that lhe streams of atoms, which con-
tinually rush forth from the fingers, are continued on; and lengthened out into
long invisible fingerll which become continuations of our naiUral ones; and
whtch, bein" composed of minute particlrs, are perfectly adapted to pass
through the porea of another form; and to be applied, as we should apply our
visible fin"ers, to the very part on which it is intended to act. The last process
is action; by striking those very emanating particles that constitute that invi·
sible elongation of the part of our own body which it is intended to employ,
whether it be the band, the eye, or any other part-by striking them forcibly m
constant and rapid succession against the stone, the particles of sand baving
been rendered less tenacious by the aoaking, loo~en and fall apart, and are
washed out of the body by the natural evacuauou.
One instance more will suffice. In cases of indigestion, the senslltions pro-
duced by the ropy humor in the stomach are a thick I(UIIlmy feel on the tinge~;
and when they are gently moved they meet with a slight degree of resistance.
To judge of the depth of this slimy humor, thp fingers must be perpGndicularly
dipt in 11 to the bottom of the stomach ; the consequence will be the impression
of a circular line, as if a string surrounded each finger, marking the depth to
which they bad sunk. Now, to remove this derangement, the coat of the
stomach must be cleared, which ia done by the inYisible finger~ scraping all the
internal surface.
It follows incontroYertibly from the-principles which have been adnnced,
that aa the practitioners in this art heal diseases, so they can communicate
them; that they can give the itch by shaking with invisible bands, and send
a fit of the gout to any person whom they are disposed to oblige.
In England, as in other countries, the science had many
opposers, and indeed what worldly or national good does not
meet with opposition ? The administration of the United
States under George Washington, the greatest and best, met
with some opposition from the enemies of a.Republican Go-
vernment, and at this day, the pretended friends of our beloved
Digitized by Goog[e
' .36
country Gre forming a formidable phalanx against the success-
ful .completion.of the wise measures emanating from the chief
magistrate of the nation. They even attempt to deride this
most wise and consistent statesman with the epithet of " lit-
tle magician," and many jealous and unprincipled politicians '{.
attribute his triumph in the Presidential Chair, to "the effect
of the magnetic fluid operating on the brain of his supporters;''
at the moment of inditing this paragraph there is borne to my
ear on the cords of the air, even the loud peans of the multi-
tude reverberating the sound of the deep toned cannon, with
its five hundred mouths proclaiming " glad tidings from the
South,'' '' good ~ews from the West,'' a '' triumph in Rhode-
Island," a "victory in Maine," but in reality a" purchase
of honest integrity" to fill up the rear-guard of " vile oppo-
sition.''
Mainauduc had many opposers in England; the church \Vas
a formidable enemy to Animal Magnetism ; the jealous cler-
~ accused him of blasphemy, and instigated the people to
suppress the doctrine of the magnetic fluid, to prevent a rev-
olution in the " legally established order of faith." To
show the injustice of such accusations, I \'o..·ill here give an ex-
tract from Mainauduc'sexcell~nt lectures, which were printed
in a quarto volume, with his portrait, in 1798.
"I flatter myself," asye this pious and benevolent man, at the close of his lec-
tures, "you are now convinced that thia science is oftoo exalted a nature to be
trilled withhor despised; and 1 fondly hope that even the ~uperficilllapecimen
which you ave thus far received, has given you room to euppo~e it net a hu-
man deorice held out for the sportive gratification of the idle moment, but a di-
vine call from the affectionate creating Parent, inviting his rebellioud children
by every persuasive, by every tender motive, to renounce the de.nructive allure-
menttoof earthly influence; and to perform the duties which he sent his Beloved
Son in the world toinculcate, as the only and effectual conrlitionaon which the
deh1ded spirit in man should escape future punishment. The apostles received
and aocepted ofthoe terma; dieciples out of number embraced the doctrine;
anabyexample, by diacouree, and by cure!', influenced the mindaofthe unthink-
ing multitude, abaorbed ia lin and rioting in obstinate dieobedience. ~ain
tlae J.lmiBtaty Father delligna to rouse hiS children from that ind11ference to
37
their i~iDI fate into which the watcbCul enemy omil~ no opportunity of
t:Jnicing them. To lead our Saviour from hie duty1 the tempter showed and
offered him all thie world's grandeur ;-eo be daily m some.dea-ree doea to us.
Our Sa'fiour spumed him .,.uh contempt, and eo must we. . Our blessed Sa·
viour, whose spirit wae a etranger to sin, cured by perfect spiritual and physical
innocence, and by an uninterrupted dependence on hie Great, Ommpotent,
Spiritual Father. He never failed. His chosen apostles cured by relinquish·
ing this world and foHowing him. We have but one examplt', that I can recol·
lect, of their having failed; an1then Christ told them what was neces~ary to
ensure success. The d·sciplt's and the followers of the apostles performed rna·
ny cures, but how fnr they were chequered by failures I am not informed. Pa·
racelaus, Sir Kenelm Dil;!by, Sir Robert Fludrl, and several others, experienced
sufficient power in themselves to verify the words of our Savi"ur; but wert'
1oon depnved of what was only lent to urge them to seek for the great original
cause. ''Verily1 'fcnly," said Christ, "the works which I do shall ye do also;
and greater works than these shall ye do, for I go unto my Father." Valen·
tme Greatrakes,• by obeying the instructions imparted to him in visions, per·
formed many cures; but ceasing to look up to the source, and giving way to
medical importunity, he administered drugs and could not expect success. Gas·
ner, a moral·and religious man, performed many cure~~; he was shut up in a
eon'fent, through the ignorance of his superiors and superstitious blindness of
the age he lived in; thence his progress was trivial, though his dawnings seem·
ed to promise much•
.tlaamer pillagedt the subject from Sir Robert Fludd, and found to certainty
the exiatence of the r-ower: undisposed to attend to our Saviour's information,
be!referred loadstones and magnetic ideas to the service of the Great Author;
an after performing several accidental cures, his magnetism and his errors
ebared the same fatt: of his predecessors. Doctor D'Elson, his partner, though
a man of strong reason and im;Jartiality, ascribed the power which he experi-
enced to the physical will of man; and after performing ~orne cures, he fell
asleep. At length, after so many centuries of ignorance, it has graciously plea·
sed the Almighty Father to draw aside the veil, and disclose hie sacred myste·
riea to this favored generation. And when I shall be called home, it will, I
hope, appear that for a bright and happy certainty of serving my God, aod li·
ving with my Saviour, I pointed out to you, my brethren, the Almillhty'a real
acience, and that path to Heaven which Christ, the only perfect and successful
one of thu lut, left to mankind as his last testament and inestimable dying
gift."
Such were the pious lectures of Mainauduc, whose benev-
olent services in the m~gnetic science, will, I hope, be justly
appreciated wherever my theory+ of somnambulism and
• AD lrlah gentleman, who practised Animal Magnetiom with great success; be cured
th~ Klog'I·Elil and many other obstinate eases of disease. Hie fame was 10 gre&t,
that Lord Conway sent for him to come to England, to cure a grievous headache
which bla amiable lady bad endured for many years.
t Malaaudue here speaks rather disrespectfully of his brother in aeience, bot such
feelioaa are common In ell professions. I em in posoesaioo of much private alandeF
circulated by the magnetizere of Providence, agalolt their brethren in the profe.wioo.
Enn the clergyaometlmea speak dlareapectfully of a brother eleqyman, particularl:pIf
he pone...,. a more than ordinary share of talent and Came
t Vide chapterVI.
Digitized by Goog[e
38
clairvoyance, with the result of the experiments in this coun·
try to try its philosophical basis, shall become more general-
ly known.
CHAPTER III.
A NI::\V ERA IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM (WITHOUT THEORY,)
UNDER DELEUZE.
))e Puysegur discovers Somnambulism and Clairvoyance-
Triumph of the •ience under Deleuze-his histm·y-defence
of the scien,e-Foissac obtains a new examination of Jln-
imal .Magnetism from the Royal Society of ,]Jfedicine-
report of the Commissioners-proofs of the magneticfluid
-description of Somnambulism-Clairvoyance, its mys-
terious and supernatural effects.
The science of Animal Magnetism soon revived from the
withering blast sent to it by the malicious report of the French
King's commissioners. New facts were elicited, and new
phenomena exhibited in the patients under the influence of
the mysterious fluid.
De Puysegur, a gentleman of great eminence in wealth an1l
respectability, discovered and made known a few months af-
ter the Commissioners' report of 1784, the most extraordi-
nary phenomena in the history of magnetical science.
Somnambulism and CLAIRVOYANCE, hitherto unknown to
be produced by the fluid, were by De Puysegur, discovered to
form part of the science. This new phenomenon soon manifest-
ed itself in nearly all the patients ofthe numerous magnetic pro-
fessors in Europe, and gave to this interesting science a new
force and extension, which time and unjust opposition has
served to increase and expand. The French revolution re-
Digitized by Goog[e
39
tarded its progress for a while in that country, but it soon
gained new vigor under the magical wand of Deleuze.
· This eminent gentleman and philosopher was born at Sis-
teron, Lower Alps, in 1753. In 1798, he was chosen as-
sistant Naturalist of the Jardin des Plantea, at Paris.. He
translated " Darwin's Lives of the Plants," in 1799, and
Thompson's Seasons, in 1806. He is likewise the author
of " .Euxode, or Conversations on the study of the Sciences,
Letters and Philosophy," and also of " Histoire Critique
du Magnetisme," and " Instruction Pratique" in the same
science. In 1828, he was appointed Librarian of the .Muse-
um de Histoire .N'aturelle, and is member to rriany learned
and philanthropic societies in Europe. His critical history
of Magnetism appeared in 1813, and has probably done more
than all other works to advance the interest of this science.
-{ His " Practical Instructions" appeared in 1825, and these
two works, now translated into most of the European langua-
ges, form the standard for instructive lectures and manipula-
tions to all the professors of the science in Europe and Ame-
nca.
He dispenses with all hypothesis and theory, which makes
his works infinitely more useful to the professors of the sci-
ence, many of whom, I regret to say, are so unlettered as to
be totally incapable of comprehending the beautiful theory
taught in the time of Mesmer and Mainauduc, before the ad-
dition of somnambulism and clairvoyance. The discovery of
this last named phenomenon would render it impossible to
maintain the science on that theory, and therefore Deleuze
acted wisely to abandon all hypothesis, leaving each one to
account for it as he best could, and establish the science on
ahe broad and sure foundation of the numerous facta produced:
Digitized by Goog[e
40
by the manipulations and attested by the mm;;t influential and .
respectable witnesses.-" I shall not," said Deleuze, (as re·
ported in his life by Foissac,) " permit myself to form any
theory, but will only state \\·hat has been witnessed by myself,
and others worthy of credit." After giving a sketch of the
history of its discovery, and various oppositions to it, he de-
votes a long chapter to the examination of proofs on which
the science is four.ded.
He first lays down undisputed, correct principles of the
probability of testimony, and applies them, \Yith sound logic,
to the examination of the proofs of Animal Magnetism. He
shows that its effects have been attested by thousands of re·
spectable witnesses, among whom are physicians, savans and
enlightened men, who have not been afraid to meet ridicule.
while obeying the dictates of conscience, and fulfilling a duty
to humanity; that the many who have published their opinions,
and the yet greater number who make their observations in
silence, and content themselves with acknowledging their be-
lief when questioned on the subject, have all either seen for
themselves or actually produced the phenomenon of which
they speak ; while among the opposers or the science, not
one can be found who has examined the subject in the only
proper way, by experimenting for himself with scrupulous at-
tention in exact accordance with the prescribed directions.
The science, under Deleuze, gained converts from among
the most learned men in the Empire. Mr. Foissac, a distin-
guished member of the medical faculty of Paris, readily em-
braced the doctrine, and from being a skilful magnetizerhim-
self, wrote a memoir to the Academy of Medicine, in 1825,
inviting that learned society to make a new examination of
Animal Magnetism. His proposition was after much discus-
Digitized by Goog[e
41
sion adopted, and a commission composed of its members,
Bourdois de la Motte, Fouquier, Gueneau de Mussy, Guer-
sent, ltard, Leroux, Magendie, Marc, Thillaye, Husson, and
Double, were appointed to conduct the. experiments and re-
port to the Academy.
The commission spent five .years with the.most scrutinizing
experiments, and finally, in 1831, reported unfavorable to
the science, but acknowledged in the report, having seen ma-
ny extraordinary and "unaccountable" facts, which was suf-
ficient to show their prejudice and total incapability of judg-
ing in a science in which the fundamental principles were
above their comprehension.
. The respectability of the society which appointed the com-
mission had some influence in retarding the rapid ad,·ances
which the science was making; but truth cannot be hid, and
many intelligent men soon saw the injustice occasioned by
the report, and enlisted themselves in favor of Animal Mag-
netism, which is again on a triumphant march through all the
civilized sections of the globe.
The limits of this work will not admit the details connect-
ed with the rise and progress of this science in Europe, or of
giving the many thousand well attested facts which are record-
ed in its favor on the pages of history, neither are they es-
sential to my purpose; for when I treat of its progress in
America, I will give the minutia of so many well authentica-
ted facts, as shall leave no doubt on the minds of the most
sceptical.
Before entering on its rise in this country, I will give the
manipulations, or mode of magnetizing, as practised by Mes-
mer and Deleuze, with their followers, described by the last
named commission in their report to the society.
oi9,tized by Google
"The pereon," eaya the report," who was to be mapetized wae placed in the
sitting poaition, on a connmen~ sofa, or upon a chair. The~~~:agnetizer, '"ting
on a little h1gher seat, before. hta face, and at about a foot dtetant, recdllectll
himself _a fe'!' momenlll, d~:~nng whtch he hold• the thumb of ~~ pauen~ and
remains m thts posmon unul hefeels that the same degree ofheat tl established
between the thumbs of that person and his own. Then hedraWIIoffhiabandain
turning them outwards, and places them upon the ehouldere for neari)J one
minute. Afterwards he carries them down elowly, by a BOrt of friction, vary
light, along the arms, down to tbe extremi!iea of the finaen,-he begins again
the same motion five or six times; it is what magnecilera call JHIHU. Then
he paslt!S his hands over the head, keeps them there a few moments, brings
them down in passing before the facc1 at the distance of one or twv inches, to
the cpieastrium, whe~e he. atops agam, .either in bearing upon that regiQtl1 or
without tnuchmg tt wtth h•s fingers. And he thue come• down slowly along the
body, to the feet; These ~sea, or motions, are repeated during the greatest
part of the course, and when he wishes to finish it, he carrit:e them even he-
yond the extremities of the hands and feet, in shaking hie fingers at each time.
Finally, he performs before the face and the c~eet ~me transversal motions, at
the distance of three or tour mcbee, m presenung btl two banda, pat near one
another, nnd in renwving them abruptly. At other lima., he brin111 near together
the fingers of each hand, and presents them at three orfour inches distant from
the h~ad or the stomach, in lt:aving them in that posilion for one or two min-
utes; then, alternately drawing them off, and br!nging them near those parts,
with more or less qwckness, h~ tmnate~ the motion that we nauaraUy execute
when we wish to get rtd of a l;qmd whtch met the extremity of our fingers.
"These various modes were followed in all our experiments, without adhering
to one rather than to the other,-ofteu using but one, sometimes two 1 and we
never were directed in the choice that we made of them, by the idea that one
mode would produce a quicker and better marked effect than another. 'I'he
commiRsion will not follow in the enumeration of the facte it h11 observed;
the order of the times when each of_ them was produced; we thought it more
convenient, and above all, more rattonal, to present them to you, classed ac-
cording to the degree, more or less decided, of the magnetical action that it re-
cogt~ized in each of them."
I will give a single experiment from the many reported by
the commission, to prove the influence of the magnetic fluid.
"The c•Jmmission found a~ong its members a gentl~man who was willing to
submit himself to the exploston of tne somnambule; 1t was Mr. Marc. l\llle
Celine wo~ reques.ted to cardully examine the sutt~ of heeltb of our colleague :
she applied ber hand on hts forehead, ancl the regiOn of-the heart,-and after
three miuutec, satd that tbe blood was rushtng to the head; that Mr. Marc
actulllly had a pain in the left side of that cavity; that he often felt eome.op-
pression, espectally ufter hts meals; that be was often troubled wttb a sltght
congh, that the lower part of the chest was filled up with blood; that some-
thing troubled the passage of the food; that the part called the regior. of the
xiphoid (appendix,) had grown narrower;-that to enre Mr. More, it should oo
necessary to bleed him in an abundant manner; apply, on the interior part of
the breast, poultices made with hemluck, and rub·tt with laudanum; that he
should drink lemonade, in which he should diadol_Ye some ~tUm arabic; eat lit·
tlc, nnd uftcr•; finally, that he oo1ght not to walk tmtned.ately after eating.
"We longed to hear from Mr. Marc, whether he hncf really felt what the som-
nambule had announced; he sa1d that ha had, mdeed, some oppression when
he \nlked immediately nfter hia menls; that be was often troubled with
cough, 11nd that before the experiment, hehud -~pain in the left side of his head,
but felt no difficulty m the passtng down of hie food."
• o;giizedbyGoogle
43
The present chapter, as I before remarked, sketches the era
in which somnambulism and clairvoyance were discovered in
persons under the force of the magnetic fluid, and therefore a
de;cription of thos'e extraordinary powers would be desirable
and appropriate in this place.
.Magnetic Somnambulism, called simply "somnambulism,"
when treating of this science, differs only from the common
somnambulism, or sleep walking, by being the known effect of
magnetic fluid directed by the manipulations which excites
the phenomena ; while the common somnambulism or sleep-
walking is produced by a natural sleep. Magnetic somnam-
bulism, according "to Deleuze,* is "an inexplicable change
· which occurs in the function of the nen,ous system, in the play
of the organs, and in the manner of receiving and transmit-
ing sensation." The same author gives lucid directions for
ascertaining when the patient is a somnambulist; the following
are his words: " Ift your patient speaks, and to the ques-
tion, 'Do you sleep?' answers, 'Yes;' he is a somnambuli.st."
The same author continues, " when your somnambulist shall
have given an affirmative answer to your first question, '.!J.re
you asleep'./' you may address others to him. These ques-
tions should be simple, clear, well adapted, and concise;
they should be made slowly, with an interval between them,
leaving the somnambulist all the time he wishes to reflect on
them."
Deleuze was equally clear and explicit in all his writings
on magnetism. He avoided, as I before remarked, all hy·
pothesis and theory which enables his followers without much
intellectual science to become parfaitement t1erse and hors
• Vide trlhalatlon b7 Mr. Hartshorn, Jllle 60.
t Tflllalatlon, l'ace 63.
Digitized by Goog[e
44
de danger from the enemies of the science, who are ever try-
ing to undermine and raze to their own level the beautiful
structure of Animal Magnetism, whose terrace and walls will
yet form a temple in· which the goddess PANACEA will ad-
minister the antidote to mortality.
CLAIRVOYANCE is literally clear sightedness; it is a French
word to express the faculty manifested by magnetic somnam·
bulists, of seeing with invisible eyes things at the most remote
distance from the body, and hid by millions of opaque barri-
ers from the sight of persons awake. A somnambulist at
Providence, for instance, \vould leave the body and travel
(in spirit) in a few seconds to England, and after eyeing all
the particulars of Queen Victoria's household and dress,
would relate the exact description audibly, to any person ma-
king the inquiries of the lady. This property forms the most X
extraordinary feature in the science, and as Deleuze has given
no theory of explanations, it remains unaccounted for by all
his disciples in this couutry or elsewhere.
It is in this particular phenomenon that I have been most
successful in proving the correctness of my theory of An-
imal Magnetism, with which, in the subsequent chapters, I will
make clear as noon-day, all the previous mysteries connected
with this wonderful science.
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER IV.
FIRST I:STRODUCTlON OF THE HA.GNETlC SCIENCE IN
AMERICA.
Charles Poyen St. Sauveur lectures at Patotuclut- Triumph
of the science under Poyen-new converts and disciples-
Evidences offered in support ofthe doctrine-its wonderful
attributes-References to prove the truth of the science-
Case ofClairvoyance-Case ofparalyzing a limb-Effect
of the toill-Reading letters with invisible eyes.
The first public lectures of importance on Animal Mag-
netism delivered in the United States, were at Pawtucket,
R. I., in the fa1l and winter of 1836, by Professor Charles
Poyen St. Sauveur, a French gentleman of eminent• talents,
and highly esteemed by all who have the pleasure of his ac-
quaintance. His principal magnetic somnambulist from that
time to the present, is Miss Gleason of Pawtucket, a young
lady of very respectable family, possessing an amiable dispo-
sition, and highly cultivated mind.t They visited Boston and
Lowe!, where Mr. Poyen gave a series of practical lectures,
and gained many converts to the doctrine. They are, at the
time of writing this chapter, in Nantucket, where he is lec-
turing to a very respectable class, many of whom have be-
come firm believers in Animal 1\Iagnetism.
• Ptofessor Poyen Is much slandered by his brother professors, who call him "an ignor·
ant old Frenchman," and the author has !:eard also from the mouths of the magnetic
gentlemen, that" Professor Poyen baa more conceit than brains;" such remarks come
witit a bact grace from coadjutors in a heuevolent cause.
t h Envy with malicious tongue" bas not spared evf:'n the sanctity of sex in this
science; a professor of the magnetic lluid told the author very privately, that "Miss
Gleason was a low \bing, which old Poyen found working in a cotton factory at Pawtuck.
et." Wben will people learn to speak respectfully of superior accomplishm~nts1
oi9,tized by Google
46
Mr. Poyen may justly be considered the father of the
science in this country ; he translated the " report on Mag-
netical Experiments" by the Royal Academy of Medicine,
and by the many extraordinary facts produced in his instruct-
ive lectures and experiments, he has not only gained hun-
dreds of converts from among the most scientific and re~­
pectable families in the country, but he has likewise enabled
many gentlemen by his instructions to become professional
magnetizers, with even more powerful magnetical powers than
himself; several of his disciples in Providence are acknowl-
edged by alllhose. _
capable of judging, to be stronger mag-
netizers than Mr. Poyen1 who has expressed the same opin-
ion in relation to two oi three of them.
- ,.r.- .,
Poyen himself, and all the professors in this country, are
perfect followers of Delcuze, who they take for a guide in all
their manipulations and experiments, and who they quote as
authority in all cases of technical dispute. Like Deleuze,
they have no hypothesis or theory, and in exhibiting the phe- X
nomena of the science, they offer it as a wonderful property
in the physiolo-gical constitution of man, " exhibiting in a
brighter light than any other the moral power and divine
origin of man, giving a new life to the religious principle, and
furnishing unconquerable weapons to christianity againstma-
terialism, which is already triumphant in some parts of the
civilized toorld-opcns a new and broad field to physcholo-
gical speculations, that seeme1l nearly exhausted by the la-
bors of the preceding centuries-creates a new method of
pathological investigation-settles therapeutics on a balis
hitherto unkttoton to the medicaltoorld-enlarges and raise.,
so much the domain of physiology, that we may qualify the•
modi.ficati~ns operated on it as trtte revolutions.!!!"* Such
C: • Poyen's iutroduetioo, Boatou edition, 1836,
. Digitized by Goog[e
47
are a few of the attributes of tflis interesting science, which
now claims for its suppor.ters a large share of the intelligent
men of the country. In the city of Providence alone, there
are six professers of the science; they studied. under profes-
sor Poyen, and are now equally or better magnetizers than
-their instructor ; each profassor has one or more subjects,
who are particularly under the influence of their magnetical
power. Professor Wayland, president of Brown Univer-
sity, has embraced the doctrine. Thomas C. Hartshorn, of
Providence, a gentleman eminent in learning, is not only a
firm disciple of Deleuze, but he has likewise translated and
published Deleuze's "Practieal Instructions in Animal Mag-
netism," "hich the people of this ccuntry will highly appreci-
ate. ~lr. Hartshorn accompanies the translation with many
remarkable facts produced by the professors of the magnet··
ical science in Pro,·idence ; at the conclusion of the work .
he says :
"The magnetizers in this city (Providence,) have been very accommodating tO>
strangers, and men distinguished in the professions. Hundreds of them have
had every facility of im•esiigntion, when they have appeared to he 1111ided by a
philosophical sptrit, and not by vain curio~ity. A list of a few whom the trane-
lator recollects, is here presented, to enable their townsmen to find out from
\heir own lips, 'whether these things be so.' A moreextended one will be pre-
pared at the end of the volume, which will be comprised in three part!!, each·
with an appendix pa!(ed by itself. An index to the whole will be published in
the last. A second edition of the volume, if called for, shall have a re-arrange
ment of the matter in t!.e notes.
Joseph T. Allen, Norfolk, Vir.; Wm. Wadsworth, Philadelphia; Dr. Joshtla
B. Flint Ephriam L. Frothingham, Wm. B. Bratlferd, Boston; Thomas B.
Mitchell, James G. Whitaker, Mobile; W. P. Rathbone, Augusta, G€o.; Thos.
Burgess, Jun. New Orleans;· Profes1ors Potter and.Yates, Union, College; Dr.'
Brownell, East-Hartford; l\l~jor Lomax, U. S. Army ;_.Rev. James W. Cooke,
Col. S_tone Abner J-one111 New--York; Bishop BrowM11, Hartford, Con. ; Rev.'
FranciS Wayl11nd, Sen., Saratoga, N.Y.; Professo.r D'Wolf, Castl£10n, Vt.
- Hunt, Esq., Re1>: A. Kauflinnn, ChltTleston, S.C.; Rey, Dr. Bra1.er, Salem,
Mass.; Rev. Henry Colman, Deerfield, Mass.; Rev. Mr.Elliott, St. Louia,Mo.•·
Rev: John A. Clarke, Philadelphia; Rev. F. H. Hed2:e, Bangor, Me.;- Rev.
BenJ. Kent, Roxbury, Mass.; John Taylor, Newark, N. J."
The newspapers of the count11y have been nearly a year
making known the extraordioory pienomenon.prcduced:by tlie
magnetiC fluid in Pawtueket and: Provitlence~ Ml!, Harts-
Digitized by Goog[e
48
hom, in his work, has collected several of these well authen-
ticated facts. The following are from his book :
"A child about nlne years of age, attending the school ofMi~s Snow, in this
city, (Providence,) was about a month ago, during an intermission, fouud to be
asleep in the school-room. One of the young •cholera carne and !!'ll'"e infor·
mation. Mise Snow and others tried to rou•e her, but not succeeding, they
became alarmed. A young medical student, a 80n of Commodore John Orde
Creighton, being called in, soon perrciv•·tl thnt she wfts in a magnetic sleep. A
little ¢rlabout ten yeus old, immediattly burst into tear.. Jt wns evidP.nt that
she (Jane Ball.) had done it; hnt ahe was so much terrified at the re~ult of tho
nuschief, that Miss Snow called her into another room, soothed Iter distress,
and told her she nred not he fri~:thtcned; she had only to !!O to Anne, a1d ask
her to wake up. This was done. She mert'ly spoke to her, and Fhe came out
of her magnetic state, with that smile upon her vis~ge whicb.is peculiar to thoea
who 11re gently roused from it.
The chtld ,,ad lwm, once beforr, nnd only once, put into the somn11mbulic
state. It wns <:ffectecl in about five minutes, hy a Indy who hnd nc,•er before
tried her hand at thi~ busines• •
I learn these particulars frcm :Mr. Bcnjr.rr:in Cczr.ens, and Mr. Joseph
Balch, Jr.
Dr. ••• of this city, inform~d me that one of his <lou~hrers, seven years of
a.~:e, put her little siBter, be1 wren two And three year~· of ai!'e. into n d~ep ntU!!·
netic sleep, so thnt her mother could not rou!t her. Sometime nfrerwar<'s •~e
wa~ very eal!er to experience the ei!E,ct again, nml cried because she was not
permitte<l to be magnetized.
An in~tonce occurred of one hoy'8 r•nttir•!l' another into the some ~totP,
which wns related to me l>
y an eyewitness of the facr. It took place in this
clty."
A very extraordinary case Of clairYcyance \Yas e'·inced by
1\Iiss Parker, who is a magnetic subject of Dr. Brownell, a
''ery eminent physician, and professor of animal magnetism at
Providence;. the description of this case has appeared in many
of the newsp!lpers, within the past three months, and excited
much interest ; the particulars below are furnished by Dr.
Brownell to Mr. Hartshorn.
"The patient lived more than a quartrrof n mile from my house. I requested
a somnambulist, then at my houet>, to see if she could find such a man, at the
•H An instance of the power of magnetiz!na: without manipulation, and eausin~ sleep
at the first trial is afforded in the ea•e of" woman, who, being lrr a nerv.ous state, wao .-
put to sleep for the fits! time by her husband, In the·course of fifteen· minutes, without
her kno1~ing any thing of his Intention; ahe sluing-at' one part of the room, and It& in
another. Whtn ahe W8ll a•Ttep, he went Into an adjoinill, room out of her Gllreet vision,
and"taklns down a book, began to read it. After being sometime in tbe m•ll'letle atate,
she wn· awakened. She related corrC'tltly whar he liar! done, and' nlneed' the uaual
proofs orclairvoyance. The genUem&n:ll a rellldent of thia city, afrlend·of.mine, on.
whoee·nraeityl eaa dl>pend\!'
Digitized by Goog[e
49
~ame time pointing out to her the situation of the house, which w1111 not in.
sight from the room where we continued ali the time. She saw him. e>n be-
IIH{ asked in what room, she roplied, in the third room back. from the street.
She was then requested to de~cribe the situation of the furniture in it, in order
to discover whether she had got into the right place, and whether her clairvoy-
ance might be trusted to at thst time; Phe described it very exactly.
I then toJd her my patient !tad been sick. a lon11 time, and desired her to ex-
amine him and tell what the disease was. ,
She smd, 'He lool<s so bad, I do not like to do it.' I replied, 'Never mmd
that; it looks. bad to yo•1, because you have not been accustomed to looking
nt the interior of a hody.'
As I supposed him to he afiected with n diseased livec, and with indigestion
arismg from a diseased state of the sto111ach1 I asked her to look. at the stomach
to ~ee if that was disensed; she allswered, 'No.'
Is the liv~r di•epsed ·? 'No.'
Well, examine the whole intestinal canal, and see if there is any disease
there. 'I do rtot see any,' sal<! she.
Examine the kid11eys. ' Nothing is the matter with them.'
r\ut !mowing what other part to call her anention to, I requested her tu look
nt every pun of him.
,\ftcr •orne little time, >he say~, 'His spleen is swelled; i! i• enlarged.'
His spleen! said I; when we speak of a person who is spleeny, we suppo•e
h(' ilos an imn:!inary complaint.. \Vhat do yo11mean?
~he •aid, 'The part called the 8pleen1 Is enl&rged.'
How do you know it is.enlarged? ,
'It is a g-reat dealla:-crer thnn yours.
Do von see mine? 'Ye~.'
Ho•v larue is hi• spleen?
'lt i• a ~rent deal longer and thicker thlln your han<l.'
I then aBked her to put her band wbere the •pleen is situated. She imme-
dt•;:elv plnct'd her hand over the region of the spleen.
1 tli•·n asked hrr what the shape of the stomach was: she replied that it Wlls
.like u il•Jwer in the garden. I was not acquainted with that flower, and do not
r(_•eo!!cet the name she gave to it. ·
J tlwn rcq•h·•ted her to recollect all about this, saying I wished to talk with
hcr nbou.t it when she awol<e. .
,\!'ter she came out of the somnaml.mlic state, she was nsked whether she
rco!t·•nh•'rcd i1aving examiued the sick person. She remembered it.
Wt.at part did you tell me wa$ diseased? After a li!tle consideration, she ,
repl'ed, 'I believe I told you .the spleen is enlarged.'
How came you to call it the spleen l
'I do not know.'
Did yon ever hear any description of the internal organs, or see any plates
of them 1 'No.'
Shoul<\, yon know the plate repre~enting the stomach, if you ""ere to see it?
'I think I should if it looked like it.' · .
I willi!Ointo the library nnd bring out ~orne plates, to see whether you know
the internal organs. . . .
While l wns gone mto the ltbrary, she sa1d to a lady present, 'Every once
in a while I saw fluids pass from his stomach into his bowel$.'
On returning with the. volume of plates, in order to ascertain whether abe
really distinguished the different or~an•, I shCiwed her a plate somewhat risem-
bling the stomaeh, and asked her If that was.what she .saw for the stomach1
She said, 'No.' Turnmg to seYeral plates m successton, she decl11red that
neither of them resembled the stomach.
Then turning to the tr~e plate, as if aceid_enta)ly, w~ile throwing open the
leaves, intending to pass 11 by unless she noticed tt, ahetmmedtately cned out,
'That's it, that's what I sa'IV for the stomach.'
•
50
I then convened with her in relation to the other visc1•ra; and she gave a very
correct description of them, as she had done in her sleep. I asked her if she
had conversed upon the subject, or seen any plates of the internal orl!ans. She
declared she never had. •
Seven days after thia, the patient was taken more seriously ill, and died on
Saturday, the third day following.
On Monday, a post-mortem examination took place; previoua to which I
invited all the physicians whom I could find in the city.
Eighteen persons were present, of whom si~·tcen were physicians.
I then stilted all the particulars of the examination by the somnambulic
patient; and requested the physicians to examine the body to R
ee if they
· could discover the diseased spleen from external examination. They, with
one voice, declared thry could not.
I then opened the body, and, to the utter nstonishment of the phy~icians
present, found the spletn so enlarged as to weigh ji(ty-seren ounces. Its usual
weight i~ from four to sir ounces.
No other disease was p~ceptible, except a general inflammation, which no
doubt came on about three days before his·denth."
The magnetizers have likewise the power of paralyz:u:;
the limbs or any part of ·the patient, by directing the tluid
through that particular part alone. The Rev. Daniel Greene,
of Pawtucket, a professor of the science, possesses that
power in a very extraordinary degree. Mr. Thomas H.
··webb, editor of the Providence Journal, has made kn0\\"
!1 a--;...
very extraordinary case of that kind, which he witnessed in a
young lady at Pawtucket, who was magnetized by Mr. Greene.
Another interestihg phenomenon produced by the magnetic
fluid, is the power of impressing the somnambulist's mind
with the will of the magnetizer.; they can, for instance, will
a knife, or pen, to be a water-melon, and the somnambulists
\vill take it, put it to their mouths, and express their like, or
dislike of the taste ; I have witnessed many interesting ex-
periments of this kind, which will be related in the subse-
quent chapters.
'fwo very extraordinary cases of clairvoyance are related
by Col. Stone, in the N. Y. Commercial Advertiser, of the . ,
4th Sept. ; the Col. was previously pn unbeliever in the T
science, and how far he is become a convert to. the faith, I
leave the reader to judge, from .reading the following narrative
from his pen :
Digitized by Goog[e
51
"ANIMAL i:\IAo~TISM.-We have had our time and times oflanghiJlg at animal
magn~ti&m. We ahalllaugh at it no more. There is something awfully mys-
tt:rious in the principle, beyond the powerof man to fathom or exvlain. Bemg
in Providence or. Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, the 26th, 27th, and 2Sth of
August, an opportunity was afforded us of seeing and taking part in a series of
<xperiments, with a young blind lady, while under the magnetic influence, the
re;;ults of which were not only marvellous in our eyes, but absolutely astound·
ing. The exhibition was not puulic, and the parties were all people of the first
respectability, professional and otherwise. Having heard much upon the sub-
ject, and disbelieved all, the expcrimtnts ~ere !'lacie before a private circle of
ladies and gentlemen, at our own urgent sohcaauon.
We have written a narrative uf the circumstance~, comprising some fifty or
sixty pages of foolscap; and we venture to say, that nothing hitherto published
upon that subject, is so wotulerful by far, as the fact• of which we were wit-
uess-all of which we saw nod part of which we were. We shall publish .our
narrauve, on taking it to Providence for examinatio!'ll provided we can obtain
permission of the parties-who have hitherto avoid~d publications, or p11blic
cxhtbiuona. · ·
One surprising incident we will mention. On Sunday, while we were in
Providence, a ~mall package was received from Mr. Stephen Covill, of Troy,
containing, as he wrote to his friend, a note, which he wished Mi•s B. to read,
while under the m •gnotic influeno:e, without Lreakiug the seal, if she could.
Mr. C. had been induced to try this experiment, in consequence of having
heard of extraordinary performauccs of this kind- which, ofcourse, he doubted.
T ile package, or letter, was evidently composed of Feveral en,·tlopcs. The
outer one wns compused of thick blue paper. On Sunday ev<,nin~, l\Iiss B.,
who, it must be borne in mind, when awake, is blind, was put into a rnognettc
slumber, and the letter given to her with instructions to read it. She said sh-e
wvuld take it to bed with her, and read it before moming. On :Monday morn-
it<!!, she gave the raadinl( as foilows:-
. • N"o otlacr than thf' ••rc of Omnipotence can read tbitt, in &hilt
en •·t'loJ•..w<'nt.-1 ~a't ·' ·
\\'e tnade a memorandum of this re!tding, and examined the packag-e con-
taininl!, as she said, the sentl'nce. She said, then, on l\lomtarmoming, that
thert,\·ere one or two word• betweer. the word 'envclopemcnt and the date,
as we understood her, which she could not make out. We examined the seal
with the closest scrutiny. The seal of l\Ir. Covilo was unbroken, and to turn
tite letter, or to read ll witho.ut opening, with human eyes, was impossible.
After onr return to the city, VIZ. on Wcdnesdny lust, we addressed a letter
to l\Ir. Covill, to ascertain wnethcr ths reading of the blind somnambulist was
correct. The fvllowing is h1s reply:-
Taov, Sept. I, 1837.
Dear Sir-Your's of yesterday I received by thie morning's mail, and as to
your inquiry relative to the pack:u~e submitted to Miss B. while under the mag·
lletic influence, I have to say, the packa~:e came to ha11d yesterday. The
~:~entence had been written by a friend, and sealed by him at my reque~t, and in
such a manner as was supposed could not have been read by any human de-
vice, without breaking thli ~~e~l. We think the seals hue not been broken
until returned. The sentence as read by 1\Iiss B. is :-'No other than tlu ~e
of Omnipot•nct can rtad this, in this tm~elopemenl-1931.' And as written m
the oirginal, on a card, and another card placed on the face of the writing, and
enclosed in a thick blue paper envelope, was: 'No other than the eye of Omnipo-
ttnce can read this smter.c<:,·in this enllelope.-Troy, N. York, Aueuet, 1637.'
Respectfully, yours, &c.
STEPHEN COVILL.
P, S.-We have jull received a note from Pro~dence, with permission t()
publish our own narrott1ve. .But as it is very loug, and equally complu and
.....
Digilized by Goog[e
52
wonderful, we shall first take it to Providenct; for the examination of thoee
who were prel!ent on theoccasian, our aim bemg scrupulous exactues!. We
also left a note for the blind lady to read, sealed with seven !eals. We have
received it this morning, the seals unbroken, with the answer written on the
outaide. This answer is correct, ae far as it goes. We were iA great haste at
the time ol preparing the note, and having the odd title of a queer old book in
our pocket, printed tn small Italic letter, we wrote a part of the note' with a
pencil, and stuck on two and a half lines of the small Italic printing, with a
wafer. The note, written and printed, as we left it, was in these words:-
'The fol.lowing is the title, equally quaint and amusing, of a book which was
publtshed m England, m the ttme of Ohver Cromwell :-Egg• of Charity
layed bythe Chickens qf the Co~Jenant, and boiled by the u:aters of Divine lo~Je.
T.ake ye a>td eat.'
The following is the answer, sent by Miss B- through an intimate
friend :-
'The following is a title, equally amazing (or amusing) and quaint, of a
book published in England iu the time of Ohver Cromwell:-'
• Eggs of Charity-..,
'Mies B. does n<tt kn<tw whether the wm'<i is amazing <tr amusing.
S<tmething is written after the 'eggs <tf charity,' which she cannot make
ooV ·
Thus much for the present. We make no comments. What we know to
be true, we fear not to declare. Facts sustained by the evidence of our own
eenses, we trust we ever shall have the boldness to publish. In regard to our
narration, it is alike wonderful and inexplicable: As Paulding's /black witch
in Koningsmarke, says-' Ive accn u:hat ruseen-! know what I know. '"
Many such facts have been witnessed in this country with-
in the past year, and could be attested by the most respecttl-
ble citizens, who were eye witnesses of the facts, and are
men of veracity, who are eminent in learning, in science, and
in piety. But I will not enlarge on the sphere of marvellous
phenomena ; enough, I trust, has been given to show the deep
root which the science of Animall\Iagnetism has struck in the
soil, to be nourished by the mo~t breath of credulity, until its
overshadowing branches shall smother the weak plant of rea-
son, which truth fails to sustaiJ;l when unaided by light.
Digitized by Goog[e
,
CHAPTER V.
THE AUTHOR's FIRST EXPERIMENT !N ANIMAL MAGNET-
ISM IN THE CITY OF NEW-YORK .
' \
Jluthor's opinion of the science-a branch of El~ctr_i~_~ty~ ; :
Introduction to professor ilndros-his history-Somnam-
bulic sleep-extraordinary cases of Clairvoyance-Jifrs.
Jlndros, her history-first experiment in Xew- York-
1oonderful effects on the brain of the Jluthor-:falls in a
magnetic sleep-Reverie-Poetically inspired-Solilo-
quy-resolves on mighty deeds.
Before disclosing the THEORY which is to initiate the rea-
der into the arcana of Animal Magnetism, I \Yill first relate the
circumstances that led to its discovery, and likewise give the
previously conceived opinions and expressions in regard to
thi~ science, before I had an occular demonstration of its ef-
fects on the physical and physiological constitution of man.
In the narration, I will endeavor to be a faithful historian,
and present the facts in the order in which they occurred.
In the discussion of Animal Magnetism with a number of
gentlemen the past summer, I stated that I had never seen an
experim!Jnt; but from what I could learn of the manipulations
from the works published on· the subject, and description
·given by those who had witnessed the effects produced by
them, I considered it a mere branch of electricity, aided
by terror on the brain, producing a mere drowsiness without
somnambulism or clairvoyance, and the whole too insignificant
to take a rank as a new science, under the appellation of Ani-
mal Magnetism.
I explained how electricity could be collected from the at-
mosphere by the hairs and clothes of ane person and trans-
Digitized by Goog[e
54
mitted to another person less hairy, (or whose clothing was
not so good a conductor of the fluid) by the manipulations
used in producing magnetic sleep.
It is a known fact, that gradual and moderate portions of
electricity, transmitted from the common electric machine to
a person, will cause a dr_owsiness for a short time ; and this
explanation satisfied all present e.Xcept one gentleman, (pro-
fessor Arlington,) who said he had seen repeated experiments
in Animal Magnetism, in which the somnambulist was so per-
fectly asleep, that the dismemberment of a limb could not
awake her ; and he had known them to go (in spirit) remote
distances, and relate the accurate description of things, which,
when awake, they had no conception of. This gentleman
further stated, that he had produced the phenomena a number
of times in Boston, in presence of many scientific ph:·sicians,
whom he convinced of the reality of the sleep. He is the
author of a series of articles in favor of Animal Magnetism, X
which recently appeared in the N. Y. Herald, and like all
• the professors of the science, he asserts the phenomena to be
facts, yet s~s they cannot be accounted for by any known
laws of the universe.
Feeling very little dispooitio~, at that time, to argue against
such absurd doctrines, I proposed to give him or any profes-
sor of the art, five hundred dollars, if they would put me to
sleep with the magnetic fluid, or put any other person asleep,
so that I could not awake them; or the same- sum if any som-
nambulist would tell the contents of a trunk in my possession.
He declined, in consequence, ·as he said, of not wishing to
take my money, but promised to show me an experiment,
which he has thus far failed to accomplish.
Mr. James W. Hale, of the News Room, was present at
55
this conversation, and meeting him a short time afterwards,
he told me, that at his boarding-house, (Varick House, Broad-
way,) there were many gentlemen from Providence, firm
believers in Animal Magnetism, and who related so many ex-
traordinary stories in relation to facts produced by the mag-
netic fluid, that he was induced to mention my conversation
with 'Brofessor Arlington, and he thought they would take up
my offer of five hundred dollars, to produce the phenomena
of magnetic somnambulism. The same week, l again met
{ l\Ir. Hale, who told me that Mr. William Andros, of Pro·
· vidence, a professor of the science of Animal Magnetism, had
arrived with his lady, at the Varick House, ''"ith the avowed
purpose of lecturing on the science, to the citizens o( New-
york. That out of nearly one hundred visitors at the house,
there was but two (himself and Mr. Whitlaw) who were un-
lJelievers, and dared to oppose the arguments of the others in
favor of the science-that he had made up his mind from my
expressed opinion, that tl1ere was nothing in the science wor-
thy of credit, and yet from hearing so many iHtclligent men
from Providence say they had seen and believed it, he be-
gan to doubt his previously conceived opinion, nnd feared I
might be mistaken, and would iose.the money if offered to
Mr. Andros. I assured him that my opinion was founded on
a careful investigation of the known law5 of Nature, and that
if I should be mistaken in my opinion, I would pay the five
hundred dollars as freely as I 'vould pay for a dinner, be-
cause they would receive the money only by producing a
:phenomenon, which I suppose could not exist according
to the known laws of Nature, and which, if it did exist, it
was now time for me to know it, and such fact would be well
worth five hundred dollars, as additional information to. my
small amount of knowledge.
Digitized by Goog[e
56
It may be well here to give a synopsis of the magnetic
fame of Mr. and Mrs. Andros. Mr. Andros was hom at~
Plainfield, Conn., 1806. He has resided some years in
Providence, where he kept an extensive Bour store, and is
now a manufacturer of various kinds of varnish ; he is highly
respected, and possesses a good education, htving taught a
district l?Chool in Rhode Island for .several years previous to
commencing mercantile· business in Providence. Mr. An-
dros was an unbeliever in the science, even after the first ex-
periment, which he witnessed at Pawtucket, by professor
Poyen and Miss Gleason ; after the' second experiment,
which he witnessed at the same place, he became a convert
and firm believer in the doctrine of Animal Magnetism. From
his own description, he could think of nothing else, and de-.
sired to talk of nothing else, from being so completely capti-
vated by the strange supernatural facts which he witncss~d in
.the public lectures of Poyen and Miss Gleason.' Mr. Andros
was naturally fond of company, imd in his usual afternoon
t-ide in his chaise, he preferred some one to accompany him,
but now he had no desire for company, he preferred being
alone, and rode out alone to philosophize on this wonderful
science. New converts were daily increasing the excite-
ment, ~d among the new professors was Mr. Americus Potter,'I
a highly .respectable manufacturing jeweller of Providence,
who from attending Poyen's lectures, became infatuated, and
trying the power, which Poyen says every person contains
.within himself, he succeeded in magnetizing one or two per-
rons in Providence. Professor Potter next essayed, by re-
guest of Mr. Andros, to magnetize his lady, (Mrs. Amelia An-
pros,) and suceeeded, after the 6fth trial, to place her in a pro-
found magnetie sleep. Mr. Andros then concluded he could do
Digitized by Goog[e
.57
it likewise, and at the second trial, succeeded in producing
somnambulism in Mrs. Andros, and kept her asleep half an
hour ; he awoke her and tried it again ; she was perfectly
under the control of his magnetic power ; from this time, he
neglected his business to give private experiments to many
gentlemen, wh~ came to see from a great distance, attracted
by the magnetic fame of Mrs. Andros, who is a highly ac-
complished lady, of a most respectable family. She is the
daughter of Col. George R. A. Olney, owner and conductor
of a very .extensive cotton manufactory at Dighton, Massa-
chusetts. Judge Durfee, attracted by the fame of Mrs. A.,
came from Newport to see her. 'Vhile in magnetic sleep,
f.. Judge Durfee was put in magnetic communication, and ask-
ed many questions about Newport, which she answered cor-
rectly, to the astonishment of all present. He asked her the
time by the court-house clock, at Newport, (it was then nine
in the evening.,) she answered "the clock don't· go." Are
you sure ? '' Yes.'' How do the hands stand ? " Half
past six." The clock had been taken down the day previ-
ous, and the hands left at half past six. This made converts
of Judge Durfee and all present, who were previously unbe-
lievers.
In May or June last, Capt. Childs, of steam-boat Narra-
gansett, on going to Boston with liis family, told Mr. Andros
he would stop at the American Hotel, in Hanover street, and
at .nine o'clock in the evening, desired Mr. Andros would ask
Mrs. Andros in magnetic sleep, about his family in Boston.
' She was put asleep about ten, and went (in spirit) to Boston,
described Capt. Childs in a parlor, with tlrree gentlemen, and
Mrs. Childs in the second story of another house, trying to
put her baby to sleep. From the· description of the·build.--
o;9otized by Google
58
ing, the company judged Mrs. C. in the New England Cof-
fee House. On the return of Capt. Childs, he confirmed
all the important particulars described by her. He had been
unable to procure lodgings at the American House, and there-
fore went to the New England Coffee House; he himself,
at about ten, was in the parlor of another house with three
gentlemen.
At another time, Capt. Childs sent her (in spirit) to the
Transportation Company \Yare House, in New York, which
she described quite to his satisfaction.
At another time, Mr. Thomas C. Hartshorn, (author of
the translation of Deleuze's practical instructions,) was put in
magnetic communication with Mrs. Andros ; he sent her (in
spirit) to the house of Natl1an Hastings, at Cincinnati. She
described the house, furniture, &c., and said one young lady
was not well ; " something like froth is on her liver ; it does
not look like the healthy liver of .lJfr. Hartshorn." " Shall
I scrape it off?" '' .N'o, that would k.ill her, but I think
·an emetic would be good for her, and I think .f.lnimal ,}l/ag-
netism would help her." The young lady, Miss Hastings,
is known to have a consumption, and Mr. Hartshorn has
written to Cincinnati, to ascertain from Mr. Hastings how
far the other particulars are correct, and unquestionably the
answer from Mr. Hastings will confirm all the other particu-
lars. As many as thirty gentlemen were in the room at the
time of this experiment, among whom was William Wads-
wortll, Esq., firm of Charles P. Massey & Co., Commis-
sion Merchants, of 27 South wharf, Philadelphia, Mr. W.
was put in magnetic com~punication, and said, " on your re-
turn from Cincinnati, stop at my house, No. 3, South Penn
Square, Philadelphia ;" she did so, and described the ~ouse,
Digitized by Goog[e
59
furniture, &c. He thea said "do you see a dog ?" " Yes,
I hat1t just pasted a bujck dog in the entry." "Has he any
white about him ?" " Yu, tome ~hitt under the neck and
on tht Bide, and a rope around lia neck." Mr. Wadsworth
said that the answers were remarkably correct : he knew
nothing about the rope on the neck of the dog, but ~ he had
been absent some days, it was probable that he had been tied to
escape the vengeance of the city law, and perhaps broke
loose. Mr. Andros next presented her many bank bills ;
she told most of them correctly, by placing them to the epi-
gastrium, where she sees with the invisible eyes.. Mr. A.
next put into her hands a letter, which l\Ir. ·wadsworth gave
him-she said "this is not a bank note."· " 'Vhat is it
then?" "Jlletter." "Can you read the superscription?"
" Yes, it is directed to ~Ir. Wm. Wadsworth, Boston, and it
is from a lady." " What lady ?" " I think it is from the
lady I. have just seen i~ Philadelphia." " Why do you
think so ?" "Because it looks like her." Frqm the ex-
periments of that evening, most of the gentlemen present
became converts.
Mr. George Smith, engraver, firm of Terrcy, Pelton &
Co., Boston, was, at another time, put in magnetic commu-.
nication with Mrs. Andros, who went (in spirit) to his house,
and described the furniture quite to his satisfaction.
At another time, Mr. John Hartshorn (brother of Thomas
C. Hartshorn,) merchant,of Boston, was put in magnetic
communication with Mrs. Andros, who described his furni-
ture, house, &c., to his entire satisfaction.
Professor Ware, of Cambridge College, was put in mag-
'f.netic communication, and sent her (in spirit) to the College,
.' which she described correctly and satisfactorily. Professor
Digitized by Goog[e
60
Ware remarked, tnat he had seen Poyen and Miss Gle'llson,
who was "nothing compared with Mrs. Andros."
Mr. Gladding, merchant, of Providence, at another time,
sent her (in spirit) to the Varick House, New York, from
which house he had just returned, and asked her to descriOe
it, which she did to his satisfaction. She said there were
two musical instruments in the parlor, "and there is a beau-
tiful picture in the parlor near the piano." " Does it lay
on the floor, or hang up ?" "Neither, it stands on the
floor and is very large." It is a fact, that a very large por-
trait of Juliet in Romeo and Juliet, had been received that
morning, and was standing on the floor.
Mr. Andros is acknowledged to have very great magnetic
power ; he, at one time, caused magnetic sleep in Miss Amy
Hauze, aged 17, daughter of Gen. Joseph Hawse, of Provi-
dence ; this sleep lasted three fourths of an hour ; it occur-
red at Gen. Hawse's, before alargecompany, none of whom
could wake her. He likewise caused partial sleep in Miss
Sarah Hawse, so that she could not open ner eyes ; also in
Miss Elizabeth Adams, aged IJ years, of Warwick, so that
she could not open her eyes or talk ; also in Miss Spaulding
of Providence, formerly of Plainfield, Conn. The effects in
this case were much the same as those exhibited by Miss
Adams ; he also put in magnetic sleep, Mrs. Harris, of
Smithfield. Mrs. H. is afso a daughter of Gen. Hawse, and
the ..experiment was at his house. Mr. Andros at first de-
clined, on account of naving a severe headache, saying if he
succeeded, Mrs. Harris would be left with a headache ;. he
succeeded, kept her asleep half an hour, and she awoke with
the severest headache she ever experienced•.
The foregoing history of Professor· AndrOS) is; from: notes
Digitized by Goog[e
61
of c~nversation held with that gentleman, whose well known
veracity* precludes possibility of doubt, and it is but a small
part of what could be given in support of his magnetical pow-
ers. I have he_
ard many Providence gentlemen, among whom
are two eminent professors of magnetic science, declare Mrs.
Andros to be the best magnetic somnambulist in this country~
.Mr. Andros, on coming to New York, brought letters of in-
troduction and recommendation from Professor Brownell,
.M. D., Thos. C. Hartshorn, professor of languages, Thos.
Doyle and Randall H. Greene, of Providence; also from
Abner Jones, of New York, and John Hartshorn, of Bos..:
ton. From my subsequent knowledge, derived from exper-
iments with the various somnambulists, I do not hesitate to
say, that ~lrs. Andros is the best of all the magnetic som-
nambulists in this country.
I will now resume the history of my own personal expe-
rience.
On Sunday, 13th August, Mr. ·Hale called at my house ;
said the many advocates of Animal .Magnetism had inuuced
him to say perhaps too much against it; that he had told them
it was a deception, and thaf the refusal to accept of my offer
was sufficient proof against the sincerity of its professors ;
and, continued he, "in the. overwrought excitement, I re-
peated your offer to make them a present of five hundred
dollars, if they would produce the facts which you required
of :\lr. Arlington; at which, l\lr. John C. Dodge, of Dodge-
ville, R. I. drew from his pocket book one hundred dollars
·.Professor Androo, like all men of great talents, does not escape his share of scandal.
More than one of his brother professors have told me pri-valely that he had the phreno·
+·logical bump denominated "stretching of thing•." From my own personal observa·
tion, I am satisfied that the said bump is.not more strongly developed in Mr. Andros
tban in sowe of the other professors of the ptagnetical science.
Digitized by Goog[e
62
and offered it as a bet against an equal sum, to be deposited
by you, that Mr. Andros could put Mrs. A. so perfectly
asleep by the magnetic fluid, that no means ·(which a gentle·
man would not deem disgraceful) could awake her;" arid,
continued Mr. Hale, in his narration to me, "I fear your
unbelief ~ay be ftmnded -
in error, for you will be satisfied
when you see Mr. Andros that he is sincere in his belief, and
too honest and open in his character to practise deception;
and many of the boarders at the house are gentlemen well
known for veracity, who would not be guilty of any decep·
tion, and yet say ·they have seen repeated experiments at
Providence, in which the somnambulists have told the most
wonderful facts, which could not have been known to any in
the room."
I called the following day, (Monday,) at the Varick
House, where I saw Mr. Dodge, and gave one hundred
dollars to meet the bet made by Mr. Hale. Mr. Dodge
said he was sure of winning the money, but did not offer the
bet with a desire of gain. He said, he was firmly convinced
of the reality of·Animal Magnetism, and no person on earth
could convince him to the contrary. He added, that he
himself had ~aused the magnetic sleep in his wife's sister,.a
young lady at his house ; it occurred in presence of a large
party at·his house, and was so unexpected to him as to fright·
en himself and others at the effect produced. The circum·
stances in relation to the case were these :
" A professor of the science was present, and tried to mag·
netize the young lady, when he, in a joke, said ' Eliza, let
me try, I think that I can put you asleep ;' he commenced
by using the usual manipulations, and she fell into a magnetic
sleep, from which she could not be roused by strong harts·
D
Digitized by Goog[e
63
hom, or pinching, shaking, or tickling with a feather ;"and,
continued he, " after witnessing such facts with my own eyes,
you nor any other person can persuade me that Mr. Andros
(who is acknowledged to be the best magnetizer in Provi-
dence,) CallllOt produce a magnetic sl~ep, from which you
cannot arouse the sleeper."
Mr. Dodge is a very extensive manufacturer of ;~omestic
{ dry goods, in Dodgeville ; he is of undoubted veracity, and
by all accounts from others, and from my own observations,
i ) possesses a good share of good sound sense on all subjects,
1 • except the magnetic science.
There was present, Mr. Peter F. Ewer, a highly respect-
able shipping merchant, of Nantucket; he, I learned, was
ready to bet thousands of dollars that Mr. Andros could pro•
duce all that was asserted of the magnetic fluid.
Mrs. Andros complained of ill health, in consequence of
sea-sickness on the voyage from Providence, and therefore
we found some difficulty in arranging a time for the experi-
ment ; two days elapsed, when it \Vas decided to choose an
umpire, who might decide when she should be in suitable
health for the trial. The two last named gentlemen and my-
• self called on Dr. Cheesman, who consented to serve as
umpire. On returning to the hotel, a new difficulty arose, in
regard to what should be considered a wake up. Mr. Dodge
asked, if the moving of the eyelids from a noise made with
the hands would be considered waking up. I told him most
assuredly, I would.consider it so, because the magnetic pro-
fessors asserted that dismemberment of a limb would not be
felt by the patient ; and therefore, if a sudden noise made by
the hands should cause her to move the eyelids or head, it
ought to be considered a wake up, as that was all that could
Digitized by Goog[e
64
be produced in a person who.feigned sleep; b~tt that I would
waive my opinion on that point, and leave it entirely with
the umpire to say if she was awake. He said he would not
consider that a wake up, and was fearful that Dr. Cheestnan
might be prejudiced against the science, and d.de her n> be
awake from such a trifling motion of ·the eye, which would
not alter his opinion of the sleep ; and in case of such a de-
cision, it would be prejudicial to Mr. Andros, who came to
convince the New Yorkers of the reality of this science by
public lectures, that might be profitable to him. Mr. Dodge
started another objection ; he wished to know if I was pre-
pared to make the present of five hundred dollars in case she
could not be \vaked ~p. I told him no, and for the simple
reason, that the preliminaries of the experiment were not
\vhat I required to merit the five hundred dollars. First, he
would allow only thirty minutes to wake her up, whereas
I required at least one hour, to try some experiments, which
required that time to perform; and secondly, he would allow
only Mr. Hale, and not me, to try the experiment ofwaking;
and as he would not perform any of the· things required of
.Mr. Arlington, I did not feel in honor bound to do any thing
more than comply with the. bet made between him and Mr.
Hale. Mr. ·Dodge said, " under such circumstances, he
felt reluctant to havP. Mr. Andros perform the exp.eriment,
as he had told him he was to receive five hundred dollars, as
a gratuity, in case of success." I then gave him liberty to
. withdraw his stakes, provided he would shew me a private
experiment, in which I would not try to awake her, and I
promised if I was eonvinced of the realitf of the sleep, to
use my influence in recommending Mr. Andros to the pub-
Jic. This was aeceded to, the bet was withdrawn, and being
d2
Digitized by Goog[e
•
65
now at the Varkk House, we repaired to a privete parlor,
for a private experiment in Animal Magnetis;n. There were
p~sent, John C. Dodge, of Dodgeville, Peter F . Ewer, of
NlP}tucket, James W. Hale, of New York, Mr. and Mrs.
Andros, and myself.
Mrs. Andros was seated in a rocking chair, and Mr. An-
dros in a chair about eight feet from her, commenced the
process of magnetizing. He remarked, what I had before
understood, that after two or three trials, it was not necessary
to use the manipulations with the same patient ; the will alone,
aided by a steady look of the eye, was sufficient to produce
the magnetic sleep. He fixed his eyes steadily on hers, and
with much evident straining of his eye-balls,'she fell into a
magnetic sleep in about two minutes. Her eyes were closed,
and being naturally of a sallow complexion, she had a death-
like appearance. He approached her, extended his hand and
hers raised to meet it ; he spoke to her, asked if she was
easy ? " Yes." Are you perfectly asleep ? " Yes." I
spoke to her ; she gave no answer. Mr. Andros remarked,
she cannot hear any one unless in magnetic communication,
and could not even hear a gun if fired by her ear. She com-
plained that th~ light hurt her eyes. Mr. Andros rem~rked,
it was usual for her to make such complaints, and folded a
dark handkerchief, which he ti~d over her eyes. Mr. Ewer
said, "see if you can wake her up." I declined, by say-
ing, as the bet was withdrawn, and the . experiment private,
· 't1 I was not prepared for such an experiment at the present,
would rather see an experiment of her clairvoyant powers;
Mr. Andros remarked, "that he could put her in magnetic
communicafon with any P.erson, by the will alone, when she
could hear all words such person addressed to her,'' and he
Digitized by Goog[e
l
66
I
added, ''if you will be seated next to her, I will put her in
magnetic communication with you." I took the seat, when
he said to her, "Amelia, hear what Mr. Durant says to you,
will you ?" She answered "yes," and extended the right
hand to me. She answered several questions which I ad-
dressed to her, the same as a person awake. · I asked her if
she would go to my house in Jersey City, and how she would
go there ? She nodded a~sent, and said " I toill.fly there."
'Vell, let us fly there, and when you reach the house let me
know ? In a few seconds, she said, " I am there now."
well, go in the back parlor and tell me what you ·see ? She
described a centre table, carpet, chairs, &c. Well, go up
stairs and tell me what you see there ? She described
" Something strange, it 'looks like silk, ~·c." Very cor-
rect, you see very well. I asked, if she recollected
when awake, what she saw in her sleep. Mr. Andros said
she could recollect any thing when told to do so, and not oth-
erwise. He then by my request, told her to recollect what
she saw in that room. I now said, we will fly back again ;
tell me when you are at the Varick House ? In a few se-
cO'nds she said, " I am here." I gave her several things, to
tell what they were. She took them in her hands, placed
them against the epigastrium, and told correctly the names of
things, and read correctly sentences wrote with a pencil ofl pa-
per. Several changes in the situation of those present, had
been made since she was blindfolded ; Mr. Andros was tlOW
setting on the sofa. I asked her, who was on the sofa. She
replied, Mr. Ewer. This was the first failure, and Mr.
Dodge remarked, she is not well, and I expected she might
fail in some things. Mr. Hal& took from his pocket the in-
scribed side of a letter, so much worn as to be separated from
•
Digitized by Goog[e
•
67
the rest of the sheet. I folded another handkerchief and
held it below her nose close to the mouth, gave the paper in-
to her hands, and asked her to read it. She felt it ; turned
it over several times, and said ''it is a bank note; I cannot
see very plain ; I think it is a jive dollar note." .Mr. An-
.dros remarked, "she does fail sometimes, particularly .if she
is not well, and I was afraid her ill health would cause her to
fail in many things." .Mr. Andros was again alone on the
sofa. I said, tell me who is on the sofa now ?· She replied,
" Mr. Dodge." Here several remarks were made about her
ill health, and she complained of the heat, and stroked her
forehead with her hands. Mr. Hale, I think, was next pla-
ced in magnetic communication with her, and she told correct-
ly every thing given her, and likewise went with him (in spir-
it,) to a distant house, and told tolerably correct the situation,
furniture, &c. Mr. Ewer said, " are you not satisfied now,
Mr. Durant?" I replied, "ycs. The sleep produced by
the fluid, is much more profound than I supposed could be
produced ; but I am still convinced, I can wake her up, and
will to-morrow explai~ to you how it can be done witho~t
touching her ; and will at the same time explain to you the
cause of her failing to answer correctly some of the ques-
tions .asked her ; it was not in consequence of ill health, but
was caused by impressions in my mind, conveyed to' her
brain by the magnetic fluid, in a manner which I will make
'
perfectly clear to you all. I see enough in it to admire, and
think it should interest both t!le curious and scientific. Too
much sleep may be injurious, and you should now wake her
up." After a few remarks in relation to my conversion, she
was wakedr' by sayipg;, "Amelia, you may now wake up in
one minute." She . a~V.Qioo in about a minute, and when asked
what she recollect:OO'havt~g seen in her sleep, she said she bad
•
Digitized by Goog[e
68
a faint recolleCtion ofhaving seen some cocoons of silk at Mr.
Durant's. I left, after a promise to be a friend to Mr. Andros,
and to direct him in the best mode ofintroducing the science to
the citizens of New York, after I should have seen a sufficient
number of experiments to convince me ofthe reality ofall its
pretensions. On going out, Mr. Hale followed me to the outer
door, and expressed his deep conviction of the extraordinary
phenomenon. He described it as awful, and regretted having
said so much against it. I left him, with a promise to ex-
plain the cause of the phenomena on the morrow.
In the evening, I had a large field for philosophical re-
search; I had seen, for the first time, the wonderful effects of
this most wonderful science. And, reader, if you have ever
a·ead a description of the phenomena produced by this science
in Europe, or if you have heard of the one hundredth part of
the marvellous effects produced by it in this country, and
vouched for by eye-witnesses, whom you knew to be intelli-
gent and learned, and whom you also knew to possess the
most undoubted veracity, with discretion above the probabil-
ity of being deceived, and with integrity and candor above
the possibility of deception-fancy yourself in my situation,
drawing conclusions from the scenes of the day. By a mere
look and will of one mortal, another was thrown into a sleep,
from which it was asserted, even the dismemberment of a
limb could not rouse her. She was blind-folded, yet could
;;ee with invisible eyes through the body;-nay, more-her
spirit had left its natural tenement, annihilated distance, pen-
etrated walls, and disclosed the situation of things unknown to
its abode of organized and animated clay.-My head became
di:r.zy, a new atmosphere seemed to pervade the room ;
winged spirits clouded the air; I felt the magnetic fluid creep-
•
•
69
ing through the brain; a drowsiness came over roe; I leaned
back in the chair, and lost in reverie, I thought
Ltrll eeema the enning meteor gleam,
Electromotive leap
To mimic Time on Lethe'a atream;
Then vanish in the deep.
Now, every varied form asaume~~,
From Trilobite to Man;
Who eontcious li"u, 'till he presumea
His origin to acan.
Life seems the mystic chrysalis
Of Jepidopter worm ;
Conception's metamorphosis,
A sleep, a death, a germ;
It was before cosmogony,
Out-lives Time's cireled span :
'Tis infinite l we only see
Some mid-way link in mRn.
Life seems n irance, where innate mind,
Through finite space will ~kip,
.More swift than light, past tlaeting wiud,
From planet's tip, to tip.
Sweet vision ! grant each thought may seem
Of virtut>, 'till the horn
Of Gabriel calls to cite the dream,
At rising in the morn.
T,he mysterious fluid passed from the brain. I roused,
and retained a " faint recollection" of all that I had seen in
the trance. The magnetic experiment had passed through
roy brain, and left a vivid impression of the arcanum leading
to the phenomena. The somnambulist had gracefully closed
her eyes, and when blind-folded, had answered as correctly in
relation to things present and distant, as a .shrewd son of
Connecticut could do, when interrogated as to the flavor of
an Oak-leaf Havanna. Three answers only were incorrect.
The position of Mr. Dodge and Mr. Ewer were wrongly
given, and a piece of white paper worn off from a letter, was
transformed into the magnetic coin of the "little Magician;"•
Digitized by Goog[e
70
in two answers, the objects were on a horizontal line with
the eye, .before which there were several folds of dense silk
which prevented the magnetic rays of the objects from reach-
ing the retina; in the third, misnaming of the object held by
the hands to the e,eig~trium, the fluid of vision had been cut
off by folds of silk held close against the upper lip, which
obstructed the magnetic channel that runs from the epigastri-
tlm to the eye, through the opening, formed by the nose, pre-
venting the blind-fold from touching the cheek. The whole
seemed clear as noon-day. I tried an experiment on myself:
" I willed" a magnetic sleep, and it came. I tied two hand-
kerchiefs over my eyes, and holding a book to the epi,;astri-
um, I read correctly one entire page in the REG,NE ANIMAL
oF CuvxER.
Here the reader may say, " why not have made known to
the world at once.such an important discovery in science ?"
I presume its disclosure would be of very little importance,
because it related to one single experiment; a·nd to one indi-
vidual only, while there were many more professors of the
science, whose fame in the magnetic doctrine would over-bal-
ance the faiiure of one famous professor; particularly when
the experiment was witnessed by only four individuals ; two
(at least) of whom were too thickly enveloped in mysterious
atmQBpheres, to see the cause of the phenomenon, and too
credulous to believe the truth, if explained to them. Besides
it was possible I might be mistaken; and such a supposition
was even probable, when surveying th~ formidable array of
wonderful facts vouched for, by a still more formidable array
of names, eminent in science and virtue. The disclosure
might carry conviction to a feto, whom the many would over-
power; and the magnetic fluid remain free on its course to
contaminate the atmosphere of the continent.
Digitized by Goog[e
71
The reader may smile and even deride at such fears ; but
sit down with me awhile, and let us t.urn to the pages of his-
tory, wherein is recorded the progress and triumph of Ani-
mal Magnetism in Europe; let us turn, for a moment, to the
history and unrecorded notes of our own cq,untry; let u.s lis-
ten to the confession* of respectable men around us ; some
of whom possess intelligence and discretion, at least
equal to ourselves; they tell us that they thought such things
impossible, yet, from having seen with their " own eyes,,
they became " converts to the doctrine. "
Mr. and Mrs. Andros came to New York with the highest
credentials. She is acknowledged by many, to be the best
somnambulist in the country, and Mr. Andros reputed to
have more magnetic power than Poyen, who even acknow-
ledges such fact himself; henee, it might have been just to
infer, if Mrs. Andros feign sleep, all magnetic somnambu-
lists feign sleep. But men draw different inferences from
the same facts, and to unveil and expose to the world the nudity
of Animal Magnetism, I judged correct inferences must be
drawn, not from one alone, but from all the public professors
of the science in the country ; I saw an exceiJe:ll opportunity
for obtaining such a result; it was this: I had already ex-
pressed my conviction of the profoundness of the sleep. . It
was easy to go further, and express my conviction in full. No,
I must not be a believer in all the effects, but must leave
some effects to dispute ·with the professors, in order to elicit
experiments from each subject to convin.ce me of the error·
of the unimportant difference of opinion, or, for me to con-·
• A few months •ince, at the City Hotel, In Pro\1dence, Major Lorna>, 9f U. :'1. ATmy,
aaid in pre,..nee ofrespectablcwitnesees, "ifthere is any truth in the prelended·poW·
crs of Animall\la~netism, I will take two pistols and blow my brains out.'' He.now ac.
knowledges himself a b•li•ver In the doctrine, and Ia referred to, as such, in the reeent
publication by Mr. Hartshorn. See also theeoufeQionsofMr. Jenks, of Nantucket, tuld;
Col. liti>~W~,.NNew York• .
Digitized by Goog[e
·72
vince them of my correct conceptions, and thereby obtain an
influence in their estimation and respect, which would con-
duct me into the mysterious castle, and then " I will cut off
the head of the giant in his sleep."
I had now a long task to perform, and the better to ensure
its completion, I must build a THEORY, in which the giant
would domiciliate; and to be of sufficiently just architectural
proportions, to be in harmony with Nature's well known and
analogous laws, and thereby remain unscathed, from the hot
arr<>ws of critical sappers, and yet to be of such combustible
materials, that moonshine concentrated with a white paper lens,
would explode the whole fabric, and disperse through the air
the fragments of the fluidical monster and hie: court.
It is easy to construct a false theory, but to uphold it, re-
quires duplicity; to make known my intention among a je1o
friends, would be spreading my plans before many, and cause
a failure in the enterprise. Mrs. Andi'Os alone, knew the
theory of her sleep. The professors of" the science, (those
whom I had seen) knew nothing of the secret ; they were
honest and sincere in their pretensions, and would forgive and
perhaps thank me for the duplicity used, when I should re- .
veal to them the secret main-spring of the science. " Des-
perate ends require desperate means," and my friends, I trust-
ted, would forgive me for using duplicity, when I should ex-
plain to them the motives that prompted me to use it, and
show the benefieial results obtained by it.
One coadjutor alone, was necessary to success ; and for
convenience of time and other circumstances, I chose Mr.
James W. Hale; to him alone, I gradually developed the
plans as they were formed, and with him, participated in.
many a hearty laugh, as the new theory continued to unveil
the ..arcaaum ..ef Animal Magnetism.
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER VI.
AUTHOR's ~EW THEORY OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM •
•l!atter in chaotic mass, globules in t"M formation of the
unirerse-/ltmo~phere- Water-Inanimate matter-.8ni-
mals-.Man-.Magneticjluid-Electricity-Lcadstone-
~llagnets-/'tatural sleep-.Alagnetic sleep-Polarity of
~'Wan-Cerin-lts properties-Knowledge, communicated
by magnetic cords-Fluid carries off disea1e1.
In searching for materials to form a theory of Animal Mag-
netism, it is only necessary to sweep, with & thought, the
<!<:cumulated obstructions from the pathway oftime, and look
l1ack on the chaotic mass as it moves in retrospection from
behind the dim nebula to occupy the more conspicuous sta-
tion assigned to it in cosmogony. See now the simple forms
of matter, all globular, and how few in number; count them ;
thel'e are less than one hundred, .but they are all mo\·ing to
join in various proportions, and form an infinite number of
objects; oxygen and nitrogen have come together, and now
form a new transparent object, called atmosphere. A new
(:omposition of matter is now to be formed. See moving
from a distance, two large collections of very small globules;
the smallest collection is oxygen, and extends six hundred
and sixty-two miles; the largest collection is hydrogen, and
extends one thousand three hundred and twenty-five miles ;
the two collections have now come together, and formed a
pond of transparent water, only one mile ill length. Again
the simple globules are in motion, and now many of them
r.neet together and form a granite rock ; others, collected in
another place, have formed earlh. A new substance is now
Digitized by Goog[e
'14
to be· fortned, many kinds of globules are now moving;
.they are now together, and form iron ore. The simple glo~
buies are now every where in motion, and meeting together
in different clusters, form all the inaminate objects compo-
sing the universe. A more beautiful formation is now to
take place, the globule~ are collecting in the water ; they
meet.and form the trilobite, a marine annual; it is alive, and
is capable of re-producing its kind. The globules are every
where again in motion, and as they come together, form in-
numerable kinds of .fishes, beasts, and birds. The globules
are again congregating, and see ! they have formed the most
beautiful figure of all ; it is a .Man; ·he is endowed with in-
t?llect, and seems superior to all the other forms of life·; all
the previous remaining globules have congregated in his for-
mation, and there seems nothing left. Look again, you will
perceive some ver)' small globules left; they are mere mole-
cules compared with the other globules, and appear infinite
in numbers; they do not seem to combine with any formed
object, and yet they move every where, and pass through
every thing. All objects being composed of round globules,
must be porous, occasioned by. the impossibility of round glo-
bules forming a perfectly solid mass. It is between these
openings or pores that the last remaining globular moleeult>s
find a free 'passage through all objects in the Universe. In
the unobstructed passage of these infinitely small globules, mo-
ving in infinite numbers, they produce such wonderful effects,
that we will', for convenience, name them collectively, mag-
neticfluid. This fluid sometimes collects in large masses in
the atmosphere, wliich it displaces to occupy the space itself;
though collected in large masses, it never coheres together1
and being very elastic, it sometimes starts suddenly to ano·
Digitized by Goog[e
75
ther place, leaving a vacuum where it came from: This vacu-
um being suddenly filled by the elastic atmosphere rushing to-
gether, forms the phenomenon called thunder; the rapid pas-
sage of the magnetic fluid through the atmosphere, produ~es
a vivid light, called lightning, by friction with the globules
which form the atmosphere.
Let us now trace the course of the magnetic fluid through
the pores of objects on the earth. In passing through some
objects, particularly iron, it frequently continues to keep up
the stream, until stopped by a very simple process well
known to. man, and the iron through which the stream
passes is called a magnet; large beds of iron ox:e -are
found in the earth, having a stream of this fluid passing
through it from South to North; the Southern part
of the bed of ore where the fluid enters, is called the South
Pole, and the Northern end, where the fluid passes out, is
called the North Pole. If you break from the mass a piece
of this ore, it will have a stream. passing through it with a
South aRd North Pole; this is called a natural magnet. If
you hang a pair of tongs in the chimney corner, the magnetic
fluid· (first put in motion by the atmosphere,) will gradually
work through the inetal; and in one or two years, form a per-
manent stream through the tongs, which will have a North
and South Pole, and perform all the phenomena of the horse
shoe magnet. Draw a natural magnet lengthwise over a
bar of iron or steel, and you start a stream of the magnetic fluid
through it ; this bar, poised on a vertical pivot, forms the
compass used by surveyors aud mariners; it receives the fluid .
at the South, and discharges it at tlie North; hence it must
follow, if the South Pole of one magnet be placed to the
North Pole of another magaet, they will cling together, for
the tluid in 1~ing out of the North Pole of one, enters the
Digitized by Goog[e
76
South Pqle of the other, and continues an unbroken stream; 1
this is called attractio~ in magnets; and hence, it also follows,
that if two North Poles come together, they will fly off, be-
cause two streams come together from opposite qirections ;
this is called magnetic repulsion. The same fact will be
seeri, if you take two horse shoe magnets and bring together
the two North and the two South Poles, which will repel
each other, and if one is suspended the other will fall; but if
you turn one over so as to bring the north of one to the south
of the other, they will adhere by the circular stream of mag-
netic fluid running through the whole; hence it follows incontro-
vertibly, that as the magnetic fluid can pass through the pores
of all substances, two magnets must continue to attract each
other, e~·en when other substances are placed between them ;
~ !.. this is found to be invariably true, in all cases tried with the
most dense substances, such as glass, wood, metals, water,
stones, &c., and the magnets always continue to attract the
same as if nothing intervened.. THERE IS ONE EXCEPTION
ONLY TO THIS GENERAL LAW, CERIN,* AN ANIMAL FAT,
1 (THE GLOBULES OF WHICH ARE SO SOFT, THAT THEY
MASH TOGETHER, 'AND,CLOSE UP ALL THE POREs,) W~JEN
SPREAD ON PAPER AND HELD BETWEEN TWO MAGNETS,
CUTS OFF THE l\JAGNETIC STREA)f AND RENDERS THf:
1rUGNE1'S AS POWERLESS AS WOOD. If a stream of
magnetic fluid can be caused to run through a bar of ircn by
drawing a natural magnet in one direction over it, it follows
that the stream can be changed or stopped by drawing the
natural magne't over it in an opposite direction. This is also
true in practice; and even a common spike drawn hard over
• Thia wonderfulaubslanee, Oeliu, Is like the "larnln" ofTedtly O'Roum, it mll8t be
"apned tl.in and aade 1o ao• an>at wa7a," or else the fabric will e-.plftde, as lteome•
In ~llloct with the dull• bnoia ofa acleoti11&" oumakull." [VI.W Frondaphlce.}
Digitized by Goog[e
77
a magnetic needle fwm the North to the South Pole, will de-
prive the needle of its magnetic properties, and destroy the
COmfOSS.
The magnetic fluid pervades the pores of all substances,
and is generally inactive, or nearly so, until put in motion by
the friction of some other globules striking against it. It'
bas a great affinity for animal hair, and a still greater for me-
tal ; hence, a deer's tail whirled in the atmosphere, collects
the fluid, and the tail striking on a metalic plate, communi-
cates the fluid to the plate, from thence it may be conducted
by a string to a stop cock, from which hydrogen gas may is-
sue and take fire by the fluid ; such a lamp is used for in-
structive lectures at most colleges in the country. The fluid
is collected by the same pri....ciple in the electric machine.
\The magnetic fluid pervades all substances, animate as well +
as inanimate, and produces singular effects in animals. A
small portion of it conducted from an electric machine into
a man, will produce drows.ess ; a very large portion of it
will produce death, by forcing asunder the globules of which
man is composed) the hairs on man are continually collect-
ing small portions of the fluid from the atmosphere ; woollen
clothes also collect it, and communicate it to the system, from
whence it again passes offto the atmosphere. (Asmall portion
of the fluid is always necessary to support life, by \Varming the
blood with friction as it passes through the pores ; sufficient for
this purpose is collected from the carpet and earth by the feet,
which forlhs the South Pole of an animal magnet ; the eye by
continually straining after objects, causes the fluid to pass off
at the retina, which forms the North Pole, (when awake,) of
an animal magnet; change and relaxation, ebb and flow, are
essential to all things ; the nerves, by fatigue with man!lal Ia-
Digitized by Google
78
bor during ten or twenty hours, loose the power to draw the fluid
up, and the eyes by fatigue with "looking," loose the power
to throw off the magnetic fluid, which must now begin to ebb
or run downwards, entering in at the eye, which tlow be-
comes the South Pole, and passes oif at the feet, which in
turn becomes the North Pole of the animal magnet ; the eye
being transparent, receives the fluid faster than it can pass
off at the North Pole, (feet,) which surcharges the system
and produces the natural sleep. In sleep there is a relaxa-
tion· of the nervous system, and consequently the whole body
is gradually invigorated, until the eye gains sufficient strength
to open and change the magnetic current, receiving the fluid
again at the feet, (South Pole,) and throw it onfrom the eye,
(North Pole ;) this is culled " natural waking."
In the waking state, man is capable of forcing a more than
natural rapid magnetic stream from the eye ; particularly ifhe
desires lo see or have the object towards ·which he directs
the eye; this is called " will." Hence man is t:ble to " will"
a magnetic cmrent from his eyes ; the magnetic fiuid can
pass through the pores of all substances, (except e ERIN,) and
eonsequently the current thrown out. by the " will," can he
sent to another person's eye, which (if awake) will likewise
be a north pole, and offer an opposing current ;. two currents
meeting from opposite directions, the weakest must be tum-
ed. Hence if a strong man "will" a magnetic current from
his eye, (North Pole,) it must turn the weak current from a
woman's eye, which now beeomes the South Pole, recei\'ing
the magnetic current from the North Pole of a man. In na-
ture, when the eye becomes the South Pole, the person is in
natural sleep ; hence, when by the animal " will," the eye
of a woman becomes the. South Pole, the woman is in a MAG-
E
•
Digitized by Goog[e
79
JCETIC SLEEP, and can be a magnetic somnambulist, the saine
as.one in a natur~l sleep can be a natural somnambulist.
In the magnetic sleep, the magnt'tic fluid passes from the
brain and eye (North Pole,) of the magnetizer to the eye
(South Pole) and brain of the magnetic somnall_)bulist; the
magnetic fluid is composed of globul!lr molecules which
touch each other, and form strings or magnetic cords from
one brain to the other brain; hence, if the brain of the mag-
netizer be moved by a" sense of external things," the magnet-
ic cords instantly conveys the same sympathetic move or
"sense of external things" to the brain of the magnetic som-
nambulist.
"A sense of external things" is knotoltdge, hence, all
knowledge possessed by the magnetizer is instantly possessed
by the magnetics omnambulist, who is, consequently, capable
of answering correctly any question which the magnetizer
could answer himself.
Diseases are obstructions in the pores of the body. The
magnetic fluid'carries offall obstructions in its passage through
the pores of the system; ht-~nce, all diseases are carried off
from the system by the magnetic fluid, in .its passage through
the pores of the system.
The magnetizer can force the fluid through all objectst
(except cerin,) and consequently can force the fluid " by his
will," in a curve through the brain of a third person, in its
passage to the brain of the magnetic somnambulist; and con-
sequently, the third person will be in magnetic communication
with the magnetic somnambulist, who will be able to answer
correctly, all questions which the person in magnetic com-
munication could answer himself•
•
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER VII.
6ECOND EXPERIMENT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM IN NEW YORJL
Objections to new theory over-ruled-Case of William Wads-
worth explained-Case of.Miss Parker explained-Dream
-rapid conception of the brain-Capt. Lefever's expe-
rience in thought- Theory proved by e~periment-conver­
sions to the new theory-bright future.
By my theory in the preceding chapter, the reader will
pe~eive, that I was to advocate all parts of the science ex-
cept '' Clairvoyance," or the power of seeing things unknown
to the one in magnetic communication. I called on Mr.
Andros, at the Varick House, the morning after the first ex-
periment. I explained to him, in part, my theory; taking
care not to speak of the cerin, until things should be more
matured. He was delighted wi!h all parts except disputing
"cla·il'~oyance," and cited a numb11r of cases, to show me that
I must be in error in that p;1rticular. ·one case was, that re-
lated in history, chapter V., in which Mrs. Andros saw the
dog of Mr. William Wadsworth, in Philadelphia, when he
himself did not know where the dog was, or whether he had
a rope on his neck. I reconciled that case to my theory,
by explaining the inventive power of the brain thus: The in-
stant we hear of men or things, no matter how distant, the
brain instantly concei\·es a vivid impression of the object,
although the eyes never saw it. When I heard that William
IV. of England was dead, my brain conceived him lying in
state, enveloped in cerecloth. If, at that moment, I had
asked a magnetic somnambulist to tell me whether William
IV. was in the house of Parliament, or at his dinner, the som-
nambulist would have answered; ''neither, be is dead and
e~
•
Digitized by Goog[e
81
ro1led in cerecloth," and this answer might be given, although
the somnambulist never heard he was dead, but merely by
the knotoledge or impression, (which according to my theory
is the same,) conveyed from my brain by the magnetic cords
to the brain of the somnambulist. The moment Mr. Wads-
worth asked about his dog, he had an impression on his brain
that he was not all black, and knowing it was dog-days, thought
he might be tied, to comply with the city laws; and if tied,
he must have broke the string to be in the entry, which might or
might not be correct, and yet be reconciled to my theery.
Several similar objections I over-ruled by similar explanations,
but he still thought, that by experiments with ::\Irs. Andros,
he could .convince me she possessed "clairvoyance."
Mr. Peter F. Ewer was present a part of the time, but
said, he did not "fairly understand the theory." Mr.
Dodge was in the hotel at the time. He was to lem•e for
home that day, (15th August.) I had only time to give him
an outline of the theory, ancl told him when we should meet
again, I would guarantee to convince him of the correct-
ness of my theory, which would disprove ' 'clairvoyance,''
and uivest Animal :\'lagnetism of every I bing supernatural,
leaving it a bP.autiful srience, worthy of the admiration and
patronage of all classes in the community. .Mr. Dodge said,
he had himself entertained doubts as to the '' clain·oyance,"
ana noped I would be able to substantiate, by actual ex-
periment, my opinion on that point. He requested I would
be a friend to Mr. Andros; advise him, in all cases, for his
good; and if convincPd of the perfect truth of tha· sci~nce, to
use my influence in introducing him to public notice; all which
I promised tq do, and these pages will show how I have kept
my promise.
"
82
•
The following day, (16th,) I saw Mr. Andros, and explain-
ed further my theory. Mrs. A. was present, and listE"ned with
much attention. They both expressed belief of my theory,
except disputing clairvoyttnce, and thought I would yet be a
believer in that phenomenon. Mr. A. cited another case
which could not be rP.conciled to my theory; it was that of
l\Iiss Parker seeing an enlarged splceu in a dead person, (re-
corded in a preceding chapter,) when Dr. Brownell, who
was in 111agnetic communication, said " he had no idea that
the gentleman died with diseased spleen.'' That was a
more difficult ca~e, but I made it clear as noon-day, thus:
The brain has an inventive power and also an extraordinary
capacity for retaining the impression of things long past and
apparently forgotten; it likewise conceives so rapidly, that
we are not always conscious of what has been on the mind.
An experiment was once tried, to awake a man by firing a
pistol close to his ear; he awoke ·in four seconds, and after a
few words of explanation, related bis dream. A tremendous
report from an alarm gun (the report of the pistol) roused the
citizens to arms to repel the invading enemy, some of whom
had already scaled tbe walls of the city and fired the town;
a dreadful contest ensued between the enemy and citizehs;
he was wounded and carried off a prisoner, remained in pri-
son ten years, and was released hy the king, who by accident
in passing the grated windows, discovered the prisoner to be
the prince, his son, long supposed dead; he resides at the
:palace four years, and marries a subject, for which he is
'banished from the country; is wandering in foreign countrie!
seventeen years, undergoing great vicissitudes of fortune; is
.caught by a wild beast, and escapes with the loss of more than
balf of his. head, including a large part ofthe brain; lingers one
Digitized by Goog[e
83
•
yPar under the medical attendance of a kangaroo; reco\·ers;
sperids three years on a farm; is arrested for high treason; in
prison two years; condenmed; and on reaching the scaffold,
a1oakes, to relate the events of thirty-seven years; all of which
must have occurred in four seconds, the time which elapsed
between firing the pistol and awaking.
Capt. Lefever, of Beverly, Massachusetts, with whom I
came passenger in the brig Texel, from Lisbon to Philadel-
phia, in the fall of 1828, related to me 'l similar circumstance
iu the history of his life. When 'a "hand before the mast,"
he fell from the yard-arm to the ocean, and during the descent,
which could not have occupied more than three seconds, he
thought he must be drowned; his mind flew home; be saw the
family recei\"e the news of his death; the grief and condolence
of friends; preparations for the funeral sermon, burial ant.!
gradual reconciliation to the beravement, as great length of
time elapsed after the event. T.he incidents which he saw in
that three seconds, would, said Cc~pt. Lefever; " occupy me
an entire week to narrate."
The power of unconsciously retaining the impression of
things, is shown in our daily recalling to mind something
omitted to be done. We sometimes say-there!-I promis-
ed to do such a thing full two weeks since, and I have not
thought of it until this moment. Thtre!-how strange!-it
just occurred to my mind, that I once put a toad- in moist
clay, enclosed, the whole in a box, and buried it in the cellar
to test its vitiality. I was then a small child; it must be
twenty years since, and I have never thought of it since until
this moment.
So Dr. Brownell, when first called to prescribe for the
patient, of whom he concluded to ask .Miss Parker the nature
Digitized by Googl~
84
of the disease, rapidly revolved in hi:s mind the cause of
it. lie is a physician, and first thought of dropsy in the head
or chest, diseased spleen, stone, gravel, and probably twenty
other diseases, in a few seconds, but he finally came to the
conclusion, that it was diseased liver; in arriving at .this con-
clusion, he is scarcely conscious of having thought of any"
other disease, and yet every impression lays dormant on the
brain. He asks Miss Parker, is the liver diseased? at this
instant, he thinks of perhaps fifty.different incorrect answers
she may give, and she answers ''no." I requested her to look
at every part of him, and after some little time, she anslvered
"the spl.een is diseased." Now, although Dr. Bro\\:nell sup-
. posed liver was uppermost in his mind, yet hPJ' answer "the
spleen is diseased," was once a thought of his own, the faint
im1:ression of which had laid dormant on his brain until that
moment, \~hen it was communicated by the magnt:tic cords t,o
the brain of Miss Parker, who was m magnetic somnambulism
atrd in magnetic communication with him. The argument
was conclusive; both Mr. and Mrs. Andros readily embraced
the whole theory. Mr. A. said, he could now see through the
whole of it; he recalled to mind several of the cases of sup-
posed " clairvoyance," and readily imagined that there coula
be no such thing ; it could all be accounted for by my theo-
ry, and made perfectly plain. Mr. atid Mrs A. both express-
ed astonishment, that no person ~ver before thought of such
a beautiful theory, and exprt-ssed much delight at the fortu-
nate circumstance of becoming acquainted with me, and offer-
ed to give me an interest of one half the receipts of the con-
templated lectures, if I would assist !1im in the course. I
professed much reluctance to take an interest, but offered to
direct and assist him in the best mode of introducing the sci-
Digitized by Goog[e
85
ence to the public. They were both very anxious to com-
mence public lectures as soon as possible, and desired to
know where a suitable room could be had for the purpose.
I proposed trying private experiments first, for a few days,
so I could ascertain all the somnambulic powers of Mrs. A.,
·preparatory to arranging the form most suitable to introd•:.ce
the experiments to the public. This plan was readily acce-
ded to, and having at that hour an engagement elsewhere,
I left, with promises to qevote a good share of my time to
sin1plily this interesting science, and promote his interest with
the citizens. ·
On the following day, (17th,) while in conversation with
Mr. and Mrs. A. in the parlour of the Varick Ho~se, Mr.
Ewer entered, and requested to hear more of my theory, as
he could not perfectly understand it. I explained its general
principles, and dwelt more minutely on the ma~netic cord
passing from the brain of the magnetizer to the brain of the
somnambulist, and expressed my positive knowledge that the
somnambulist could not see or tell any thing \vhich did not
come by that cord from the brain of the magnetizer; and I
added, to tesl that part of my theory, I will arrange two
trunks, one of which Mrs. Andros can tell its contents, and
the other she cannot tell. " Do you say she shall tell what
is in one?" yes, she shall tell one, and she shall not tell the
other. All were now anxious for such a beautiful experiment,
and for want of two trunks, proposed taking two hats and try
it at once. We repaired to Mr. A.'s private room, and after
Mrs. A. was in magnetic sleep, near the door, I requested
Mr. Ewer and Mr.' Andros to step to the table to see the
hats arranged; in one I pl,aced a tumbler and in the other an
inkstandj I then told Mr. A. to go and ask her the questions.
Digitized by Goog[e
When his back was turr.ed, I took a comb from my pocket
and put it in place of the tumbler, which I to9k out. Mr.
A. asked her to look in the hats, and tell what she saw th£re;
she answered, "something round," "well, what ili it!' yc-11
know it well, tell me what it i.s?" "It looks round, it looks
dark;" ''yes, that is right, but tell us what it is ? y~u know
it very well, can't you tell us the name?" ''It looks like an;
inkstand." I then remarked, you see Mr. Ewer, she is
correct,_ so far, and now for the oth~r. "Come Amelia, lobk
in the other hat and tell us what you see there? "It loob light
·colored;'; ''yes, that is right, but tell me what it is?" ''It looks
round and it looks bright;" "yes, that is right, but tell me
the name of it, can't you ?" " It looks like a tumbler." I
then shewed Mr. A. it was a comb.
T·his was complete; my theory triumphed; they all acknowl-
edged it, bL~t could not yet understand the cause. I exvlaiu-.
ed it tlms : Mr. Andros saw me put the tumbler in one hat
and the inkstand in the other, consequently the contents of
both hats were impressed on his braiu ; he was in magnetic
communication with her, and his knowledge was conveyed by
the magnetic cords to her brain, therefore, she saw a tumbler
and an inkstand ; I took Ol\t the tumbler and put in its place
a comb, when his back was turned, and as he did not know
there was a comb in the hat, she of course could not; for by
my theory, she cannot see or have knowled~e of any thing
which is not on the brain of the person in Qlagnetic commu-
nication with her.*
• The true theory and expltmatiou is this: The circumstances were very favoraLlc
for Ute; rhe cxpt!rimcnt was tn her room. She knew all the things on her tahlc, viz: a
tumbler, an inkstand, and a pair ofsnuffers; there is two hat~; and two of the three things
arP probably in them :-First, "it;, 7'DUJ&d1" "Yes;" \then "t't is ciark1" "Yes;"
an inkstand of course. llletond,-"itiaroun:i1" "Yes;" then "it i~ bright1" "Yes:;"
.then of course it Ia a tumbler; for by her oonversation In the morninc, I found ahc lliJ
Digitized oy Google
87
This was perfectly satisfactot·y, and carried conviction to
all. Mr. Ewer became a perfect convert to my theory. Mr.
Andros was more confirmed, and Mrs. Andros, although she
had tried in the morning to recant her former acknowledg-
ments, _now confessed herself a firm and unqualified believer
in my theory. Many encomiums were given on my scientific
.acquirements, and particularly on my knmvledge of Animal
Magnetism. I am always delighted to receh·e compliments,
particularly the following : " How the people of Providence
will be astonished, when they come to hear of your theor);·
There is not a soul of 'em but what believes in clairvoyance,
and there ai 'nt one of them that knows how to account for'
any part of magnetism. I do wi3h you could sec old Poyen;·
he thinks he knows so much about magnetism, and gets in a
great passion when any one crosses him."
. I felt of course much elated with the compliments, and
particularly with having; made .a perfect convert of Mrs. An-
dros to that part of my theory. That was glory enough for
one day, and I left them, with promises to " keep an eye
out" for a vacant lecture room, and to meet them at the Hotel,
on the morrow.
not wial1 to believe that part of my theory, lest 1 should thereby unvril the mystery; and
1herr:fore she tried to guess cor-rectly in both ha:s, but.the idea of.chaugiu~ the tumbler
f1u a comh, w ad lmexp·.--c!~'d, and she was UO\'f ol,tig."d to believe" that pm·t" of my the·
ury, or expose her own deception. If she did not now ad:uit "'that purl," she would
~tanc1seif-uccused of gues8ing althe conteni.s of c:1ch hal. For, if she saw the iosidP- of
t 'le hats with inviRible eye~, or c.Jain·o~ance, it would follow that she mwtl Sf>e the comb,
betause it wa~ actually in tile hat. Mr. Andros, as I remarked in chapter fifth, is perfect·
• ly innocent; ~) are all the magnetizers tho.t Jhave seen; there is no coiiisinn betWf~n
the o an.J the oomnac>bulist ; the men candidly au<! seriously believe that they (lUI
Jhu deM creatures asleep by the "will," or a lluid from their ey6s.
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER VIII.
THIRD EXPERIMENT IN ANIM.\L M,\G:'{ETISM IN NEW
YORK.
Fluid forced through a wall- Tran.~mission of the magnetic
jluid-Hoto affected-:- Theory confirmed-Important notes
necessary to be rec_td in order to be well understood.
Pursuant to~romise, I met 1\Ir. and Mrs. Andros on Fri-
day, (l~th,) and after a few preliminary remarks of w_eather,
and Mrs. A.'s health, the conversation curned on my wonder-
ful theory. Since the preceding day, they had thought much
of it, and were more and more convincP.d of its correctness
and beauty ; they had thought over some of the most extraor-
dinary cases of supposed clairvoyance, and my theory ae-·
counted for them all, and proved, that what was supposed to be
clairvoyance, was only the thought of the magnetizer carried
hy the cords or nerves of the magnetic fluid to the brain of
the somnambulist ; and Mr. Andros continued, " How the
people of Providence will stare when they come to hear of
it ; they will all be dreadful anxious to see Mr. Durant.
But had we not better keep the theory to ourselves, for it
makes Animal Magnetism so plain, and accounts so well for
all the wonders and mysteries, that people might lose all cu-
riosity to see the exhibition ?" On the contrary, I replied,
many were afraid to look at or believe in it heretofore, on ac- .
count of its being so mysterious and supernatural in its effects;
religious men would not countenance it, because they could
not understand it, and supposed the supernatural effects were
the works of the devil ; scientific men would not believe it,
because tbe_y do not wish to acknowledge belief in any thin!;
oi9,tized by Google
89
which they cannot understand, and so with the religious. and
scientific, Animal Magnetism has always had ·a formidable
opposition, which must give way under the light which my
theory will throw on the science ; it \\ill be divested of clair-
\·oyance and every thing supernatural, and so simplified that
e\'ery child can comprehend the whole at a glance. Reli-
gious lllen will see in it the simple and beautiful works of
nature ; scientific men will find much in it to interest them,
by comparing its effects with the analogous eiects produced
by Nature's known and analogous laws ; the curious will be
pleased with it, because they will be able to understand the
simple cause t' at produces sucb wonderful effects, and all
persons will admire it as a curious amusement adapted to the
capacities of children and men.
Similar conversations occupied nearly an hour, when we
r<~ paired to l\Ir. A.'s room, to spend a leisure half hour with
private experiments. She was put to sleep as usual, in about
one minute, ant! complaining of pain in the eyes from effect
oflight, was blind folded with a handkerchief. She performed
several n1 inor things, unimportant to the history ; as I always
planned some things for her success, to inspire ·her with con-
fidence, ahd lull any suspicions that might arise in her mind
respecting my object of pursuit. At this time, as well as in
most of the preceding experiments, he willed a pencil to be
a water melon, and a tumbler to contain lemonade, &c ., but
I will reserve the explanation of these for a future chapter.
I then proposed to have her waked, and for me to write on
paper the time he should put her asleep ; this was readily ac-
ceded to, and when he awoke her, be remarked, that he and
all the magnetizers of Providence bad often performed such
experiments, and considered them as easily done. as any oth-
oi9,tized by Google
90
er thing in magnetism ; and he added, " I have frequently
put her asleep by time, when I was in another room, and
separated from her by a partition." I remarked to them,
that such things would be very useful to co:H'ince the public
of the reality of the science and truth of my theory. We
now compared our time, and alte1·ed his watch to correspond
'~ith mine. I then handed him a paper, on which I wrote,
pt!l her asleep at the end offifteen minutes. We again com-
pared watches, arid I poiuted with a pencil on his, where the
··.;.
hand would be m fifteen minutes ; as he went out, she said
"you won't stay long ;" he answered " oh no ;" and ad-
dressing me, he said, "I suppose it won't be necessary to
wait long to see if I effect her, I will cqme in a'-lout fh·e min~
utes after," meaning in five minutes after the fifteen minutes
.should expire.
··· She was not blindfolded, and in about three minutes, I
looked at the watch, and then at her eyes, as if it was nearly
time to fall asleep ; in four minutes and a half from tbe time
he left, her eyes were closed, and I spoke to her, but recei-
ved no answer ; this is always proof of being asleep, for they
cannot in magnetic sleep hear any person who is not in mag-
nt;tic communication. I took hold of her hand, and contin-
ued from time to tims to speak to her, but she could not
hear me, and of course could not answer.
He returned after twenty minute's ahs«;>nce, havin~ waited
five minutes extra, for fear the fluid might be some time pass-
ine; through the wall ; she had fallen in sleep ~en minutes and
a half before the time designated on paper, but on his askin~
me "how did it succeed ?" I answered " very well indeed,"
it wa~ not exactly to a minute, but my theory accounts for
that, by the magnetic fluid having so great an 'affinity for some
Digitized by Goog[e
91
things, that it will be drawn through before its time, when
through other substances, it will be retarded after the natural
time. I car~lessly took the paper fi·om his hand, (lest she
might be curious enough to loo.k at it in my absence,) and
told him, too much sleep was injurious, and he had better wake
her up ; this he did, by saying "Amelia, you may now wake
up." She opened her eyes smiling, and asked how it had
succeeded. I gavH the same explanation to her tha,t I had
given to him, and added, by a series of such ~~periments, I
will be able to tell to a second the precise time the fluid will
require to pass through all the \·arious substances.*
We now discussed ,the preliminary steps for the public
lectures ; and I proposed, first, to interest some influential
men, by private experiments, then show it to tl1e editors,
and nothing more would be necessary to make his fortune.
I told them, some friends of mine from Boston, would like
to see an experiment, and as they were influential men, it
would be of much benefit to the science, while at the same
time, I could gain from the experiment, the full extent of
l\Irs. A.'s magnetic powers, prior to commencing the lectures.
• The true theory in tl•h• science, is roo wellnndE>r srood by Ihe reader, to rcrtuire :ua·
uy comnlf"rlt~. She wu~ anxiou~ to know nr.arly thF:." time of ~oing to sleep, alJd thet·e •
fore carelessly s;:~icl u you, tcr.n't.stay long." He mcrf'ly ans~t>red ~r "no;" for he i1
perfcctiy siuc~re, omd l.Jl•lirw•lllic conld put her asle<'p J.y the.fluid or 1'tDilt;" he had
implicit confirlC'nce in my greut knnwled_g~. ami wis!u~d to do every tlling jm~t as 1rlc .
Rired; bnt in his previon;.l experiments off his kind, shP. had not always slept just at the
momr:nt iutrm!t~d, and ft•aring the wall might retaHI fhe passage ofthe iluict, he rlesir~1
to know ho~v long I tltou~ht th~" tluid wonlcl Lc in pa~sing thrmt;:h ; he also knew it wa~
n~cessary to keep the time from her, an•I therefore hP. very honestly said, u I supJ)OBe
it won't U~J nr.ceiutary to teait lon~ to see ifl atlect her; I will come in about five minULe:l
aftr.r," which she mi,;took fpr fh·e IIJinntPsa~rtr he should have left t/.e room! 1md closed
her pyes arc.onl~ngly, guet!sing tllc tiwe witldn half a umnale ofwl1at sbe supposed was
on the paper.
1 at once knew his remarks would bP. sorviceable, and I carcle811ly anowered, yea, fivP.
minMtt!fl ttill be tnough to try th;. t:rperimmt, and lo help ruialead hP.r judgement, I look
ed alternately at.the watch anrl her eyes, previous to the expiration of.fi..• minU!co, in·
stead of waiting for thc.llftecn mintltes, and so "coaxeol her in the trapo."
o;9otized by Google
CHAPTER IX.
FOURTH EXPERIMENT IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM IN JER-
SEY CITY.
JJ!rs. .!lndros describes things in Boston-Describes things
in Calcutta- Sceptics-Fluid forced., through four tvalls
-Polarity proved-Very important notes, not to be ovc:--
looked.
On Saturday, (19th August,) Mr. ana Mrs. A'ndros came,
according to appoir.tment, to my residence in Jersey City.
where a number of my friends, by invitatioR, came to see an
- experiment in the wonderful science of Animal Magnetism.
There were present, Dr. Palmer, of the Commercial Ga-
,iette, Boston; Mr. Balch, of New York; Henry Erving,
of Boston, and Mr. Hale, of whom I have before spoken,
the only one to whom I had expressed my candid sentiments,
and the only one to whom I explained the plan of ope-
ratiom: ; to all others, both friends and strangers, I continued
to advocate my theory, or small parts of it to each, taking
good care to say nothing about the CERIN, and seldom men-
tioning the part which treats of curing diseases ; I disputed
. clairvoyance, but advocated all other parts of the science in
its fullest extent. My friends, whose names [have just men-
tioned, were unbelievers, but from my serious manner of ad-
vocating the theory, which I always promised to write out
more fully thereafter, they were induced to believe there might
be something in the science, yet would not believe it until
they should see it.
Mrs. A. closed her eyes as usual in about one minute ;
the principal experiments were, going to other places, and
Digitized by Goog[e
93
describin.g houses, furniture, &c. All present, except. Mr.
Balch, were severally put in magnetic CQmmunication with
her, and each sent her, (in spirit,) to distant places, all of
which she described in the usual mode ; for instance, " there
is a carpet on the floor, something dark in the centre of the
room, looks like a table, something looks like a glass bet~een
the windows, some chairs in the room, they look dark color-
ed, t\Vo lamps on tlfe mantle, a lady in the room, looks mid-
.dle aged, one child ;" up stairs, was generally "a bed in the
•
room, and a wash bowl;" in the kitchen there was always
'' some kettles, and something dark, looks like a grate to burn
coal, &c." There was one exception. Mr. Erving having
resided in the East Indies, sent her, (in spirit,) to his for-
mer reside~1ce in Calcutta ; there the things wet•e " curiou~,
can't describe it; never saw such a house before, the mantle
is different from any I ever saw," (there' is none,) "some-
thing on that side of the room, looks dark colored. can't des-
cribe it ; in the yard, there is a man with peeked shoes on,
something else looks green ~ ". My friends Palmer, Balcl1
and Erving, could not believe she was asleep ; (incredulous
men ;) they .even whispered to me, that they cou.ld guess
better themselves ; they said there was not one answer in
twenty correct, except the carpet, looking-glass and chairs,
which, said they, '' every body knows."
The conect answers need no explanation, but the incor-
rect ones I explained in this way ; according to my theory,
she receives her information from the brain of the one in
magnetic communication. You had an idea that she could
not tell, and therefore when you asked a question, you con-
ceived on your brain some incorrect object, which was trans-
mitted by die magnetic cords, or nerves, to her brain, and
oig•tized by Google
94
osw.ered incorrectly of course. Mr. Erving then proposed,
that I should ask her about a stairway in Calcutta, which·he
described to me. I then asked her, and she told incorrectly.
That seemed to upset my former explanation, but according
to the the'ory, I explained it thus : I endeavored, it is true,
to impress a perfect description of the Calcutta stairs on my
brain, but at the same moment, the brain unavoidably con-
ceived a fac-simile of many other stairs, and the magnetic
cord conveyed the wrong one to her brain.• This explana-
tion, of course, satisfied all present, except Messrs. Erving,
Balch, and Palmer, who were too incredulous to believe
what professors in the science know to be facts. On leaving
me that·day, one of my friends remarked, " Durant, I will
besp~ak for you a strait jacket, for I think you will want it
soon." I was much pleased \Vith his remark, as he undoubt-
edly had reference to the approaching cold winter, and intend-
ed to bespeak, as a present for ·me, a great jacket, or great-
coat, (as they are more generally called,)· in compliment for
my lucid theory of Animal Magnetism.
The appointment at my residence, was particularly intend-
ed for " a private experiment, to ascertain the full magnetic
powers of· Mrs. Andros;" and after the company left me,
(Mrs. A. being now awake,) I told Mr. A., I wished to as- •
certain the strength of the polarity of the animal magnet, and
. settle by actual experiment, for the use of his lectures, whe-
ther there was sufficient attracting powe~ in the South Pole,
(eye,) of the animal magnet, to draw from its true course
the magnetic needle, and at the same time he could go in the
front parlor and see if he could put her asleep when two
• Ally othtr t!Jeory would be aaperlluoua In convloclog the reader of the aoundoel& of
this W,U:. Many learned men ueert, that there Ia eucha thing 11 "self-evident facta"
or lileta wbicbadmltof no proof; thil aeema to toe acaeiD point, and "I otfer it in evl
deaee."
F
Digitized by Goog[e
wa1ls intervened, (an 'entrj way divides the parlors, and con-
sequently tiDo walls intervene.) He went in the front parlor,
and she closed her eyes in 'about two minutes ; I found very
little attraction in the South Pole, (eye,) and explained why,
according to my theory; there should not be a very strong
attraction. The reader who has read chapter VI. would on-
ly be fatigued by an explanation here, and therefore I shall
dispense \Yith it.*
A few 'minutes sufficed for this experiment, when I
told him to awake her, which he performed in the usual way,
by giving her permission to do so. The success was now
of course all explained to her, and arrangements made for
another experiment. The following day being Sunday, I
suggested the propriety of dispensing with experiments, as
our great aim should be to interest the clergy and religious
1nen in the science, \Yhich could only be done by conforming
with the most scrupulous exactness to the moral law, and go
to church at least every Sunday morning. This was readily
assented to, and they agreed to call again at my residence on
Monday afternoon, to interest some influential friends whom
I was to' invite.
Nothing is more true, than the saying, "it is easier to
• promise than it is to perform," and it never was more strik-
ingly exemplified than with Mr. Andros iri the present instance;
"The true polariry soHgilt t(Jr in this experiment, will be bettf'r understood in a suhse·
1\U~nt~hapter. I wi111he,l to know the real force ofthemagneti~ brttin, or in other words,
through how many thicknesses of wall he coul<l force the fluid, preparatory to the
grand test of rny theory. One very important point was attained by Ihis trial. Tlwre
is tv;o partitions, and eoflScqnentlyfuur thicknesses of plastered wall between the par·
lor~; each wall is likewi~e co,•ered with paper, and notwithstandiug all these obsfrnc.
lions, 1\lr Andros, by his" wil~" forced the magnetic ftuid through the whole into her
brain and put her asleep in two minute~~. A very wise philosopher, who fell with Alcmo
in defence c>f Texas, has said "first be sure you are right, and then go ahead." I am
sure the ftuid went through fo!l.r walls and put her asleep, rw.l now-recollect I have -
said a word about CKRIN.
Digitized by Coogle
96
for he promised to follow my example, by dispensing with
experiments and go to church on Sunday; but the following
Monday I called at the Astor House to see some friends, and
happening there to meet friend Porter,·of the Boston Travel-
ler,.the conversation, among other things, turned on Animal
Magnetism. He told me he saw an experiment the day pre-
vious (Sunday,) at the Varick House, by Mr. and Mrs. An-
dros ; he narrated a few of the most important particulars of
that experiment, \vhich I endeavored to impress strongly on
my brain for future communication by the magnetic cords to
the public in this lecture ; other impressions have almost H-
faced the impressions then received, but I retain a faint re-
collection of the following : during her magnetic sleep, and
while blindfolded, Capt. Childs, of the steamboat Narragan-
:sett, came in the room ; Mrs. Andros instantly recognised
him, and called him by name ; she even cried with joy, for
she felt so grateful to him for his kind attentions during her sea-
sickness on the passage from Providence to New York.
When she was about being waked, Capt. Childs hid behind
the bed, and on awaking she had·no recollection of hJWing
seen him in her sleep, and did not know he was in the room."
So much for friend Porter ; but when I told him I had a
theory which would account for all that, I thought I sa~v a
leer in the corner of his eye, seeming to say, " I will be-
speak you a jacket too, friend Durant ;" but there is no un"
derstanding these editors~ they praise every thing except the
General Government, and that they lash without mercy, be-
cause it fosters and protects all things worthy of praise.
..
f2
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER X.
FIFTH EXPI!:RIMENT IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM AT JERSEr
CITY.
Mrs. Jlndros goes in spirit to New York- Things art
darkish-Some talk about bleeding-Sowmambulist cries
and jumps-Paralyzing.the ann-Explanation of cry-
ing---:- Theory in bad odour.
) explained to Mr. Andros the very great advantages he
woulJ derive from a private experiment, to convince some
truly scientific men of the merits of Animal Magnetism, and
enlist their influence, to bring the incredulous public to a be-
lief of the true magnetic doctrine; and the experiment for this
day, (21st,) was more specially intended for that purpose.
The time was four o'clock, at my residence. There were
present, Dr. Chilton, Dr. Ambler, Dr. Kimball, Mr. Cum-
min, Dr. Stout, of New York; Dr. Ellet, professor of
Chelnistry in Charleston (South Carolina) College; Messrs.
Gilcl\rist, Mapes, Dr. Olcott, and Dr. Gautier, of Jersey
City. The well known character and talents of the above
named gentlemen, precludes the necessity of telling you, that
I took especial care to say nothing to them about cerin, when
advocating the science, so far as it conformed to my theory,
which embraced all the phenomena except " clairvoyance,"
and reconciled the whole to the well known and analogous
laws of nature ; the part of my theory which I dwelt most
on, when conversing with these gentlemen, was, the tlui~
passing from the brain of the magnetizer to the brain of the
somnambulist, and conveying by the magnetic cords or
nerves, the thoughts of the magnetizer, (or one in magnetic
Digitized by Goog[e
98
communication,) to the brainof ·the somnambulist. I con-
tended that the came of common sleep was the same, and
only differed in degree. I also expressed my firm conviction
that the magnetic sleep was so sound, that not even the dis-
memberment of a limb could wake them. I did not, with
any of those gentlemen, go into details of my theory, but
promised them, as I promised all others, to explqin ilnd write
it out more fully at some future day. Dr. Chilton knew of
my previous unbelief of the science, and of the bet of one
hundred dollars with Mr. John C. Dodge, as I consulted
him on the various means of producing irritation of the
nerves, expressly for that occasion, and he expressed much
surprise to see me turn round, after having seen the first ex-
periment. I told him that I would yet convince him of the
tJ;u~h of the doctrine, and requested him; on this occasio:1, to
come prepared to wake Mrs. Andros, in which I assured him
he would be mistaken ; .to some of the present company, I
had said little or nothing about my theory,. and they were .all
unbelievers in the scienc$, except Dr. Kimball, who had
seen an experiment in Boston, and he thought " there might
be something in it." '-
0n this, as on all occasions, Mr. Andros used little or no
manipulations, and put her asleep by the "will" in about
two minutes; he then caused her to raise the hand by " will,"
which is usually accompanied with raising his own hand; this
is always a proof of perfect sleep. I then remarked, g_entle-
men, she is now in magnetic sleep, and the sound of cannon
to her ear or cutting ofra limb could not wake her ; she, as
usual, complained of ~ght, and was blindfolded. Several
things were.put in her Rand, which she held to the epigastri-
um, most of which she told correctly the name; he " willed"
Digitized b~Goog[e
99
a pencil to be a water-melon, by giving it to her, and asking
" what is it ?" Several were put in magnetic communica-
tion, and she gave the usual answers ; out of twenty, which
Dr. Chilton asked her, there was one correct, viz. : "there
is something looks like large glass jars in the window," the
other answers were incorrect; to Dr. Kimball, she answered
more co~re<;tly ; she described " something looks like sur-
gical instruments;" and "something looks like flowers on
the shelf," all other answers to him were incorrect. I ex-
plained, by my theory, the cause of the incorrect answers;
that they thought she could not tell, and presumed she would
} give a wrong answer, and as their thoughts were carried by
the magnetic cords or nerves to her brain, she must of course
answer incorrectly. Things held at the epigastrium she told
correctly.* Chilton, Ellet, and Mapes, now held things be-
hind her, she answered all wrong. I explained this failure by
my theory, the same as failing to describe furniture, but not
one of the company seemed to believe a word of it ; some
eyed me elosely as if taking dimensions for a strait jacket. I
sent .Mr. Andros up stairs, in order to try some experiments
of waking up. Dr. Kimball being last in magnetic commu-
nication, I sent him to keep Andros company; for, accord- .
ing to my theory, if you frighten the magnetizer or one in
magnetic communication, you also must frighten the somnam-
bulist who receives all the impressions from their brains.
No n:wntion was made of what was to be done, and on my
requesting Mr. A. to go up stairs, Mrs. A. requested him not
to leave her. When Mr. ·A. had retired, I requested Dr..
• The true theory of seeing at the rpi~:utriuw is sufficiently explaineol in cltapter V.,
where the magnetic channel is described as passing from the object to the eye between
the handk~rchief, cheek, and nose. lfthe reader has a proboscis, he raay trythe exper·
iment on himself.
Digitized by Goog[e
100
Chilton to try any experiment he chose, to awake her, in
~hich I assured him he would be mistaken. A few moments
of silence 'ensued, when Dr. Chilton remarked, "Mr. Du-
rant, it is very evident to me that Mrs. Andros is not well,
her pulse exhibits a high fever, and I am confident a little
blood taken from her will relieve her." . I remarked, I think
it will, and you will find a bowl i~ that pantry; shall I get you
some bandages, she has complained of ill health ever since
her sea-sickness. By this time, all the gentlemen rose from
their seats, and each one had something to say or do in the
case. Dr. Gautier took out his lance ; I took the bandage
from her eyes; one took hold of lwr hand; one said, " I would
not take much;" "Oh a quart will not hurt;" "where is
the bandage ;" " I think a few ounces will be enough ;"
"there is the bowl;" "I know it will relieve her." The
whole was so seriously performed, that l\Ir. CLmunin actually
took hold of Chilton's arm, and said, "Oh, doctor, I would
not urge it any further." Chilton answered, "Yes-1 am
determined to bleed her." From the first word that Dr.
Chilton spoke in relation to bleeding, Mrs. Andros began to
say, .Mr. Jl.ndros, .J:Ir. Jl.ndros, Jlfr. Jl.ndros, where ·is
.;vir. .B.ndros? Mr . .ll.nd1·os, send for .JI;h. Jl.ndros ;"
with this she jumP.ed from her chair, stood erect, and crying
as loud as persons awake, and holding a pocket handkerchief
to her eyes, still calling" Mr. Jl.ndros, tohere is JJ[r. Jl.ndros?
Oh do send for .l~:Ir. Jl.ndros, why don't Mr. Jl.ndros come?"
By this time her cries were so"loud, that.it was deemed best
to send for Mr. Andros, who came in and tried to pacify her;
she sat down with him, still holding the handkerchief to her
eyes, and sobbing aloud for nearly ten minutes, though she
uttered not a word. Mr. Andros continued to ask me if he
Digitized by 00gle
101
had not better wake her up. I replied, oh no, she has prl)b·
ably been frightened at your absence, and you can.quiet her
in ~ few minutes while asleep. She continued sobbing, and
he continued asking me if he should wake ~ler, and added,
"she is so agitated, that I don't think I can quiet her with-
out waking her." I then told him to wake her, which he
did in one minute, in the usual way, but she still continued
sobbing for five.minutes ot· more, and wiping her eyes at the
same time.
Most of the gentlemen had now got their hats and were
about to leave, without thanking me for the beautiful experi-
ment in Animal Magnetism ; but fearing they might lea\·e
with ratheran unfavorable impression ofthis interesting science,
I followed them to the door, and endeavored to explai'n the
cause of her crying by my theory, thus : there are two ways
to account for it by the theory, and the first is, Dr. Chilton
was pr~viously in magnetic communication, and although Dr.
Kimball was afterwards in magnetic communication, yet it is
probable that the magnetic fluid was n'ot entirely cut off, and
consequently the magnetic cords conveyed all his thoughts to
her brain, and hence she must be frightened when he talks
of bleeding her. Here some one remarked, "why did she
not object to bleeding, or say something about bleeding, if
she knew from his brain that he was going to bleed her r·
I admitted that remark to . be just, and thought she should' in
in that case have said "don\bleed me," but as she did no~
say any thing about bleeding, I would account for the crying
by my theory in anothe; way, thus : Mr. Andros was in mag-
netic communication, and of course she knew by the mag-
netic cords every impression or thought on his brain ; he is
sent up stairs away from her, and' kt don't know why, but he-
Digitized by Goog[e
102
naturally thinks it must be to try some experiment of fright ;
his brain conceives many things which may be doing to fright-
en her ; all his thoughts are, by my .theory, conveyed to
her brain by the .magnetic cords ; he thought something
frightful was going on, and consequently she must think the
same ; on the same principle, she is conscious of his ab-
sence, and with the idea that something frightful would
be done to her in his absence, she must naturally cry,
for all the magnetic acts, by my theory, are similar to natural
acts.* But all my explanations did not satisfy a soul of them;
they all had a curl of contempt on the lip ; some left witl1<~ut
listening to me ; Ellet said, " the whole farce, Durant, is too
ridiculous to look at or listen to;" Mapes said, " If I un-
derstand your theory, Durant, it is like walking on the water,
a thing accomplished only by having faith enough to do it."
I succeeded to keep a few to see Mr. Andros paralyze the
arm ; a1.1 experiment which he often performs to the entire
satisfaction of. very respectable witnesses. After this was
over, Dr. Chilton whispered to me, that he" felt the muscles
of the arm in strong action;" and he added, ''her arm was
no more paralyzed than mine was ;" what an ungallant man ;
and Dr. Ellet is no better, for while her arm was paralyzed,
he asked her to " get up ;" she replied, " l can't get up
while my arm is so." " Why, yes you can," said Dr.
Ambler, 'l if your arm was off, you could rise from your
-chair;" but she knew best, and remained seated until Mr. A.
'I.Daked the arm up. So much for your scientific men ; they
were too incredulous to believe either the science ormy the~
.
• II was a very wise philosopher who aaid, "too mueh seasoning apoils the broth," and
ha'l'inc given /teo expla11ationo on that point, I.will not apoll it by giving a third, which
wollld "overdo" my theory with exceu of lbUOniog ; the reador may put II\II1U' ~
c:ream to suit hla taate.
Digitized by Goog[e
103
ory, and I should not wonder if they occasionally looked at
the insane hospital register for the name of Durant.
CHAPTER XI.
SIXTH EXPERDJENT IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM AT NEW YORK.
l1,teresting diswssion about the blecding-Bri;ht prospects
of the fttture-Fluill enters throttgh wall a little before its
time-Interesti11g notes about cutting off an arlil.
Tuesday, (22d,) I calleJ on ~Ir. and .Mrs. A. at the Va-
rick House, and aft~r a few morning comr·1irnenlary remarks,
the conversation turned on the experiment of the preceding
day. I asked if Mrs. A. was conscious of what had trans-
pired during h~r sleep. Mr. A. explained the usual effects
iu all cases, viz.: ''she never recollects any thing that bas
transpired in her sleep, unless told at the time t<> recollect it;
but sometimes, when not told to recollect any thing, she will
in a subsequent sleep relate what has transpired in a prece-
ding one; and on returning yesterday from your house, she
was very anxious to know what h~d frightened her so much,
and I put her in another magnetic sleep to ascertain1 but all
she could recollect was, that they wanted to bleed her;" here
Mrs. A. made a few observations, and said '' I know I must
have been much frightened, but I have noto no reco.llection of
what caused it; did they intend to bleed me'J I never toas
bled, and I knoto I should faint, for I don't believe I have
too much blood; I don't see what they should want to bleed me
for; you should not let them do so." " La! they did not intend
to bleed you, and if they had, you know I would not have
allowed it; it was only to ascertain how far your mind could
Digitized by Goog[e
/
104
be affected by external tl!ings, for you know by my theory,
that your brain will conceive a knowledge of every thing
which touches the magnetic cord between you and Mr. An-
dros, and it was for that reason I sent Mr. Andros and :Dr.
Kimball up stairs, so they could not conceive any thing to be
conveyed, but eithet· the magnetic cord could not have been
cut off from Dr. Chilton, or else the inventive impressions
on Mr. Andros' brain must have caused the feat·, and I sup-
posed by my theory, that such would be the case ;" here I
gave all the explanations which I gave in the preceding chap-
ter, which gave such perfect satisfaction to those who heard
it. Mrs. A. thoYght the last explanatiQn must be correct,
because, said she, "if I got the fright from the magnet.ic
cord of Dr. Chilton, I should have known they were going
to bleed me, and in such a case would have named ·it in my
sleep, and have objected to it, for I believe it would kill me to
be bled, and I would not have it done for any thing..'' ''Well,
what did they think of it?" said Mr. Andros, "did they think
she w.as awake?" "Why, at first I think they did, but after I
explained it by my the~ry, they seemed to be satisfied; they
are all scientific men, and are prejudiced against any new
scienct!, and therefore it is very hard to make them believe,
but my theory is based on such philosophical laws and is so
analogous to the well known laws of nature, that they are ob-
liged to believe it, because there is no argument that can
overturn truth when established by facts." Here many more
encomiums were passed by Mr. and Mrs. Andros on my
theory. Mr. A. remarked, he had written to Providence;
describing as much of it as he understood, which was the
fluid passing from one brain to another, and, continued he,
'' they will think you a wonderful man to find out so soon
Digitized by Goog[e
105
what they have never been able to understand; Mrs. Andros
remarked, ''I wish we had been acquainted with Mr. Durant
immediately on our arrival, and then by this time we would
have been lecturing in public; but no, Mr. Andros must listen
to Mr. Ewer, who tried to set us against Mr. Durant; but
Mr. Ewer has now altered his mind, and he thinks you will
be the best friend we can have; he is satisfit;ld that you know
more than all the rest about it; Mr. Ewer only wanted to
make money out of it." "Yes," said Mr. A., "he \vas
prepared to bet several hundred dollars with Mr. Dodge,
against your waking Mrs. Andros at that time, but he is now
satisfied that you would have won his money." "But how
did you intend to wake me up?" said Mrs. Andros, "you
never explained that." . "Oh yes, I explained that to Mr.
Andros, I should have frightened him, which would have
broke the magnetic cord without touching you; don't you see,
by my theory, that would have waked you up?" "Oh yes,
·now I see; don't you think Mr. Ewer tried every thing to be
sure; he let the blower fall on the hearth, and they say he
pinched me and put feathers in my nose and ears to try to
wake me, and he was satisfied you could not wake me, but he
has now altered his mind, and he thinks you could." • "Ha!
what (ools; Mr. Andros should not allow them to put feathers
in your nose and eers, no gentleman would do such things;
why if the feather touches the drum of your ear, it might kill
you; you see, I never even touch you with all my experi-
ments, and yet my theory is proved as I go along." " Yes, I
see," said Mr. Andros, "and that satis6es me, if you had
been at the hospital when I put the woman • asleep, she
• The day after Dodge, Ewer and myself called on Dr. Chee•man, to toerve as umpire,
)le •~.at for Jl,r•.bdrtH1#0' bluci.,.ce In puttlnc to 1leepa wopn attilt·City Hol!pital,
who wu Ill have an IU1Il AlllflUtated. Mr. .Andr~ II 10 eiDcere and~.. that he will
Digitized by Goog[e
106
would not have fell it when Dr. Cheesnwa cut her urn oif.
I know that I affected her some, but seeing the blood must
have frighted me, as you say, and broke the magnetic cord;
I have no confidence any more, unlesil you are present; I
don't know why, but somehow I put so much confidence in
you, that I don't feel right to try an experiment unless you
are present. "
Here the conversation turned on the time of commencing
lectures, which I thought could be done in all that week,
as-a very few more experiments would suffice for the prepa·
ration, and in ~1e same time, I would look out a lecture
room, which, I remarked, ought to be very large, because
thousands would be anxious to pay their dollar to see it.
Mr. A. said, "I hope you will find it convenient to assist
me, and you shall have half of the receipts. Poyen was
anxious to have me wait until he finished at Nantucket, and
then he would come with me and lecture together with Mrs.
Andros ; and he take one third and I take two thirds of the
money ; but my friends in Providence advised me to come
alone with Mrs. Andros. Thomas Doyle, who keeps a lot-
tery office in Providence wanted to come and lecture for
me at a very small pay, but I thought I could do better alone.
Mr: Ewer thinks one hundred thousand dollars could be
made by the lectures, and that would be a fortune for both of
us." I told him I thought I could arrange my lmsiness so
try nny subject you propose, as he thinks he un effect them. After Andros had opera·
tell on her five or ten minutes, he asked her if she felt any aleep, (she was very nervous
., and dreadert the amputating experim~nt ;) she answered; "I don't know that I feel any
sleep; oh ! I wnnt to go to sleep, I feel a little diffP-rent; oh ! I'll try to sleep ; I hope you
ean put me asleefl." Dr. Chce1man waited till :Mr. A. said be though he could not affeet
her any more, when he cut her arm off; btl! ihe poor woman suffered all the pain natn·
raJ to mortals in such caoes, and Cheesman had emugh of the ocienee, for he would DOt
eome bylnvitaUon to see the experiment on Monday.
Digitized by Goog[e
as to lecture for·him, and \Vou1d consent. tn take one.h~f of
the receipts, which would be at least six hundred thousand
dollars in New York alone; for, said I, thereis a population
of three hundred thousand souls, and each person must give
a dollar to see it once ; when they will be so pleased, that
they must see it again, which will make six hundred thousand
dollars for New York alone, besides what can be made in
other cities. This mathematical calculation was perfectly
satisfactory, and we agreed to meet again in the afternoon to
try another private experiment to ascertain the distance at
which the fluid would operate. ·
I called after dinner ; we went to Mr. A.'s room, and af-
ter much preliminary conv.ersation similar to that held in the
morning, I wrote on paper, v..-hich I gave him, put her to
sleep at thirty-five minutes past four-wake her at forty-five
minutes past four-put her asleep again at five o'clock, and
come horne at half past five. We now compared watches
and set his to c.orrespond with mine ; (seventeen minutes
past four.) On his leaving, she asked one or two indirect
(}Uestions, as to how long he lrould be out, and what was to
be ascertained by the experiment, but she obtained no an·
swer that would convey an idea of what I had written.
When he was gone a few minutes, I took out my watch and
remarked, that as it was nearly time for him to put her asleep,
by the paper, it would be well for her to prepare herself
from falling, she closed her eyes, and on speaking to her
she could not hear' as she was of course in sleep ; it was
twenty-three minutes past four, (only twelve minutes before •
the time,) and did not awake again until his retUJil. After a
silence of some minutes, I said audibly, as if reading to my,.
self from the paper, "in magnetic communication ten min-
.
Digitized by Goog[e
lOS
utes after; well, it is most time she should begin to hear what
I 58¥.·" I now commenced talking to her and looking at the
watch ; in about one minute .she commenced answering*
(thirty-one minutes past four,) and frequently put her hands
to her eyes and to her forehead, and laughed immoderately,
and repeatedly at amusing stories, which I related to her in
the sleep. I also sent her (in spirit,) to houses at a distance,
which she described correctly,t and continued answering all
my questions, until Mr. A. came home, (half past five ;)
when I told him· every thing came sufficiently near the time,
and I expected a trifling variation by my theory, in conse-
quence of the number of 'li'alls+ \Yhich intervene. I tock
the paper from his hand carelessly, and told him to wake her
up, as she had had a very long sleep. On <m·aking, she made
the usual inquiries, as to the correctness with \Yhich the time
of sleeping corresponded with the paper, all ofwhich I made
very satisfactory,§ aud left with a promise to call the next
mo.rning. t
·The rcadf'r will recollect I did not write on the paper" put her in magnetic eomrnn·
nication with me;" this was caused by the magnetic cords from my n'!dible words to her
urain.
t 1presume they were correct, for I sent her to honses which I know nothing about,
and to places where I supposed there was no house, but shefound 'em, and also found
Cltaits, carpets, tables and looking-~lasses in 'em.
:)Jr. A. says he was in the barber shop ofthe hotel adjoining, when he put her asleep,
and walked about the city afterwards; from the barber shop to the room Is no great
distance, but a great many walls intervene. . Don't you pereei\'e the smell ofcum.
§The reader, I trust, is alao satisfied.
Digitized by Goog[e
..
CHAPTER XII.
s•T&NTH A.ND EIGHTH EXPERIMENTS IN .lNIMA.L MAGNET•
ISM .lT NEW YORK.
o~lfrs. .IJ.ndros in better health-Extraordinary effut of the
fluid-Forced through fifty walls-Beautiful effect of the
theory-Author wills himself in magnetic communication
_:_Explanation-Notes which ought to be read.
I had resolved this morning, (23d August,) to try the ef-
fect of the fluid on cerin, but consulting with Mr. Hale about
it, be rather damped my sanguine hopes of success, for he
thought the success impossible under all the advantages yet
gained in Mr. and Mrs. A. 's confidence, and a most doubt-
ful case of success under any circumstance; I therefore
concluded to defer it for one or two days, and during the in-
terval to fasten a few more shores on !DY theory to brace it
against the approaching gale. •
On meeting Mr. and Mrs. Andros at the Varick House,
she expressed much impatience at .the tardiness in preparing
for public lectures, and said if something was not done very
soon she would go home. She had been ill ever since her
arrival in New York, and I told her that scolding was an ex-
cellent symptom of convalescence. I explained the necessity
of trying a few more private experiments, so I could become
perfectly acqu~inted with her powers, in order to convince
the incredulous public of the truth and beauty of Animal Mag-
netism. I added, three days more will be sufficient, and by
that time, I will find a suitable room for the lectures, and· pre-
oare a room for you and Mr. Andros at my house, where
you will be much more comfortable than at the Hotel. That
Digitized by Goog[e
..
110
was very satisfactor)J; she remarked, " I don't..like .the ho~.
tul, th~ hours of eating are so different from those I am ac·
. cust~med to, and I would like it much better at yo~r bouse.
in Jersey City, where I should feel more at home." I now
proposed an experiment similar to that of the preceding day,
and for him to go a great distance off; for instance, " go
t!own to Mr. Hale's reading room, and amuse yourself with
the papers." I wrote on paper, put her to sleep at tm
11~inutes past ten o'clock, and wal>:e her at t1oenty minutes past;
ten; put her to sleep again at halfpast ten, and come home
at eleven. ·we compared watches, (five minutes of ten.)
She tried by various questions, to ascertain how long Mr. A.
was to be out; according to my theory, of course, she must
not know, and. tpat was satisfactory. She fell asleep at fif-
teen minutes past ten, ~mly five minutes after the tirhe des-
~nated on paper,) and she did not wake up until Mr. Andros
.came home; she commenced answering me at twenty-five min-
utes past ten, and continued to do so th.roughout the sleep.
I told her some amusing stories, which caused her to laugh
loudly and rub her eyes. I sent her (in spirit) to a house in
Newark, which she described as having three rooms in a row
on the lower floor; ," the rear one is a kitchen~" "\Veil,
how do they light the centre room ?" . " The windows are
in the s-ide of the house;" * all of which were very correct ;
anq Mr. A. returned at eleven o'clock, much delighted, when I
told him (as I took the memorandum from his hand) that the
time was more correct than on yesterday. I asked, if he
put her in magnetic communication with me ? he replied,
"no;" and was a little astonished, when I told him she an-
• 1presume this wai ~orreet, beeauee ln"islble eye• can reo besl..
b<i'use myself.
G
swered my questions; ·bttt I explained it according to my the-
ory, very satisfactorily, thus·~ ·'' I know the directiol) oi.
Hale's news room, and as I put IDf head between Mrs. A.
and the ro&m, the magnetic current must paes through my
br~in before it reaches her, and consequently places me in
llllignetic communication ;"~ this reconciled. all, mxl I le£t,
after propesing an experiment the follewing day, to gratify amd
interest a particular friend in Brooklyn, \vho would be· of
much s~rvice to the cause, by his extensive influence with
the large population of that city.
I called again, at one o'clock, with Mr. Hale, and re-
marked to Mr. and Mrs. Andros, t9at as I had a half hour's
leisure, I wished Mr. Hale t6' see the experiment tried in
the morning. Mr. Hale was always' considered a convert
like myself, and a particular friend to'the parties and science
since his conversion.
I wrote on paper, put Mrs~ Andros asleep at thirty-five
minutes past one, aqd' come in at forty minutes past one, do
u.
ot put her in magnetic.communication with me, nor allow
her to hear any thing that. is said. We. compared time,.
t'I.Oenty minutes past one, and l told him audibly, go in the
next room,' a; it will only reqt;ire· five minutes to show Mr.
Hale the· experiment tried this morning; at twenty-two min,-
utes past one,t (two minutes after he-left,) Mrs. Andros was
asleep, and would not ans~ver words addressed to her., Mr;
Hale and myself now commenced aphilosophical coftversa~
tion about the magnetic seience. · We spoke of the profound-
ness ofthe sleep, and the· certain~ that Mrs. Andros could.
. .
. ' . . .
• I presume the reader by this time haoJSutnc;limt science to 11n<jeratand the true theo--
ry witbout more explanationjfi this case. Tberee.re at leastfifty brick walls- betweea.
-Bale's uews-room and the V&rlck House-a very perceptible •meII of.<lllRIN••
t Only thirteen.minutes before. the:timadeai(a&t~diOil.the paper•.
Digitized by Goog[e
Iiot then hear :What·we ·were talking ;
about, because she was
not in magnetic comhi.unication with us. ·I spoke to her se-
veral times, but she gave ilo answer, :tnd, indeed, how could
she answer in a magnetic sleep ? Mr. Hale now remarked,
"you know, Mr. Dur~t, that according to the paper, you
~as to be put in magnetic communication with her in fuur
minutes after she fell .asleep, and you see the four minutes
have most.expired. ~· I remarked, "oh no, it wants nearly
a minute of the time, yet;" and in a few seconds, I said,
"well, the time is up, I will see if she will answer me." I
spoke to her, and she commenced talking.*
Mr. Hale exhibited to me ~so she could.not see} a hand-
kerchief rolled up in his hand. I asked her "what has Mr.
Hale got in his-hand ?" She answered, "a knife, it looks
dark." !"waited a few seconds, and she cuntinued, " it
looks dark, it looks like a comb." " Yes, that is correct."
Mr. Hale now said, "see if she can see this pencil" (h6ld-
ing a pencil up before her,) "in my hand." I asked what
Mr. Hale had in his hand ; ." a pencil, it looks dark, but it
looks like a pencil. "t I told Mr. Hale audibly, "see now,
if I can will this knife to be a water-melon." I gave her
the knife, and said, "taste it, Mrs. Andros, and tell me
what it is." She put it to her mouth, and said, " It is a
water-melon." I now said, " see if I can will it to be a
sour apple; taste it again, Mrs. Andros, what is it now ?"
sRe put it to her lips, made awry face, spit, and said, " it
iS' a sour apple," I also willed·it to be an orange, &c., all.
e>fwhich she answered correctly.t Mr. Hale remarked; "it is
• The reader will recollect., do notput her in mapelic communicatim with ·me.
t The magnetic Jluid here came both toher ears and eyes, for she was notblindfolded;
and 1observed the eye-lids open gently to admit the !luid. '
: In kll tftose cases, the lluid enters at the ear11, which, from their peculiar· ft>rmation ,
are very aensitlve. For this wise provlalon of:Nature, we ahould be very thaa.tful; fo~<
'
most time,by the paper, thatthe magnetic communication'should
be cut off/' I answered, " yes, in a few seconds, but I wiH
continue to talk to her, to see if he effects it at the. moment."
She ceased answering my questions at thirty-three minutes
pas"t one. Mr. Hale remarked, "it is most time that you
was to wake her up." I replieJ, "it wants nearly a min-
ute 'yet, you see it is only thirty-four minutes now, and I was
not to wake her until thirty-five minutes past one." I soon
commenced throwing off the flu:d, by the usual manipulatipns
with the hands, and she awoke at thirty-six minutes past one
o'clock.* Mr. Andros came in the room in four or five
minutes after, and though at firwt surprised, was soon delight-
ed, when I explained, how by my theory, I had made her an-
swer me, and '' willed" the knife to be a water-melon, ap-
ple, &c., and how I had waked her contrary to liis " will."
'
They both seemed more and more delighted with the the-
ory, and after some little conversation on the arrangements
necessary for commencing lectures, I left them, with a pro·
mise to see fm;thcr about a lecture room, and to call on the
morrow.
.wi!J"lntt the £'ar~, tlte 1110\!!netizer tlli,H "will" aU 111111 br;•:u~ rt : ro~tgh tt.e marr.et··
ic. cords to the lomoauJlrtl1.3t, without tran;'fi;rUiiug a knife lnto t delicious melon. Fur
ltller tht!tif!J, Tide J&ot ··s to (Y,ap.1tr Xlll.
• The tirn~ "honest fol.;:s should be aslet)P ;" b~1t "new fashions makes women crazy,
and turns the world up•id ' duwu."
•
Digitized by Goog[e
.,
CHAPTER XIIL
.NINTH EXP£RDIENT IN ANI.MAL 1\IAGNETIS:\f AT .NEW
YORK •
•Mrs. .!lndros describes furniture in the city, and in Brook-
lyn- Gets in the u:rung house- Gets out again-Beau-
tiful effect of the " 1l'ill"- Theory mm·e firmly establish-
ed-.Notcs of importance, which are well w'orth the trouble
of reading.
The experiment of this morning, (August 24th,) was
merely intended to gratify a friend, Mr. Lounsberry, of Brook-
lyn, to whom, as to all others, I communicated my theor'yl
(except the part relating to CERJN,) andcontend~d that Ani-
mal Magnetism was founded on fact; but he, like many oth-
ers, would not believe the marvellous attributes of the science,
and came to be convined, (as I assured him he would be,)
of the truth of the doctrine. Mr. Cummin,* of New York,
was also present, and the experiment. was ill Mr. A.'s pri-
vate room.
She was put to sleep in the usual time, and Mr. C~mmin,
in magnetic communication, sent her (in spirit) to his re-
sidence in Waverly Place, describing the doors and furniture.
Mr. C. remarked, "that is incorrect." Mr. A. remarked
' '
''then perhaps she is in the wrong house." Mr. C. then told
her to go out of doors and look at the house, which he de-
scribed by number and stone basement, &c. She went in
and described many things correctlr, such as carpet, chairs,
• Mr. Cummln Ia one of the rentlemen named In Chapter X. He remarked oo the
ethera, when eroaalllj{ the ferry, after aeelng the uperiment of bleeding, "perhapa the
woman eheala the ....,,.," You wa7 ltnow frum aut:h an unpJiant remark, that he Ia a
~N:helor. I doll't know wllet pcumlumawere paued betweell them on Mr. A11droaan.t
mJael£
Digitized by Goog[e
115
tables and glass, but other things Mr. C. occasionall_1 remark·
ed," are incorrect." " Then I must be in the wrong room,"
said Mrs. Andros, and after recommen.cing several times,
she finished a very accurate • description of the premises.
Mr. Lounsberry was next in magnE!tic communication, and
sent her (in spirit) to his residence in Nassau street, Brook-
lyn. He described to her his house, by street, number, (109)
yard in front; she answered, ''well I am there," and describ-
ed carpet, chairs, &c.; but on Mr. L. remarking some things
it~eorrect, she said "perhaps Ism not in the right house;"
here a new description ofthe external appearance of the house
enabled her to get in the right one, where she saw " some-
thing dark, looks like chairs; a sofa on that side of the room;
a t.ab!e in the centre," ~c., and all very correct; in the kitch-
en was "·something dark, looks like a grate, I can't see very
well; yes, I see a black woman there, &c., all very correct. t
I explained the cause bf failing to tell correctly sometimes
by my theory, which, you know, does not admit of "clair-
voyance," bu,t accounts for the supposed seeing by the magne-
tic fluid conveying the knowledge of the one in magnetic com-
munication to the somnambulist; who must, of course, receive
as well, all incorrect impressions, which are formed by thinking
of too many thing'!; at a time, or by strongly impressing on your
mind an idea that the somnambulist eannot tell correctly. The
gentlemenexpressed themselves satisfied, and ind~ed whowould
not be satisfied with such a beautiful experiment and lucid ex-
• On retiring, Mr. Cummin told me, he thought the whole"!' rid•culous pieee ofnon·
sense;" and !10 added, "almo•t any body eouldcueu aa·weU or better iliaaahe doea.•,
What an incredulous man.
t I met Mr. Lounsberry a •hort time afterwarda aad I fi>1tnd he waa aa inereduloal aa
ever; he said "It was very ~guessing, aad I felt really allllamed ofmyself, to be seen
In such a Iiiii•affair.-1 wonder.bow you, D11raat, caa have patience to spend :JODr time
with it " There is no accounting for tutu by my t/tarr, exeept the tasting of -tar
melon from a penei~ or lemonade from loll emptr 11ua.
H6
planation. All the magnetic :;omnaiXMtulists.whoponess ekir-
voyance, frequ~tly get in the 'Wr<>ng h,ouse or wrong room; ••
this.tl;ley are sensible of, lind w~U make it known to you, ify011
tell them the an~wers or descriprions are not correct; ia feet,
·all profe?sors say, "a perfect description Qf the ~hings is the
only proof we have that the somnambulist has found the ri&-hl
place ; whenever the answers or descriptions are incorrect,
ue then·koow they at-e in the wrong place, and inform them
<>f the error hy words ;* so they may leave that to find the
RIGHT place ;" words agitate the air more than "toill," anci
-consequtntly c;mse a more sudden vibration of the magnetic
cord which conveys the impression or " thought" to tlae br~i11
-of the somnambulist.
Mr. Andros also willed a pencil to be a water-melon ;
such experiments are attendant on almost every exhibition ;
he usuaHy whispers to you, " I will make her believe this
pencil is a water-melon ;"he now commences by holding the
pencil in both hands the same as if it was a water-melon, and
strongly impresses on his own mind that it is such ; he now
lays .it in both her hands, held out to receive it ; he says,
" taste it ;" she puts it to ber mouth·; " well, what is it!" •
"a water-melon;" he says, ''eat it;" she now commences
moving la machoire, precisely as if she was eating a water-
melon, and \~ith the fingers, she motions as if taking the
seeds out. She.asked for water, when he gave her an empty
tumbler ; " taste it ;" she put it to her lips and spits ; '' well,
what is it!" " lemonade;" "yes ;" "taste it again, arid
tell us what it is now ? "punch." " Yes, I most always
• The ":~ill'' is not strong enoll!lh to convey thlslntelHgence by tt.e Rt&llnetlc cords, and
therefore -word• must be used; in fact, word. in moot cases, are mueh better·than the
... will" to" convey the thoughts" to the somnambulist. Dr. Capron always employs words>/..
to <;orrect errors·on the mind ofthe somnambnlist; so does Dr. BroWI\ell; also profeuor
J'GUM ud profcasor Grant; they all find the "will" ina.lequate in many caaea.
Digitized by Goog[e
succeed.with these experiments; though' Jdo fail sometimes''
said Mr-. Andros ; and he continued, q I sometimes magnet•
ize water so strongly with my tDill, that I make her believe It
is medicine, and it actually causes her at times to vomit and
purge ; many gentlemen frequently write on paper what they
wish me to will it, and I most always succeed ; suppose one
of the gentlemen write something which they wish me to
make it;" here was written and presented to him, "toill it to
be uater ;" he took the tumbler from her and held it a few
moments in his own hand, to impress the glass strongly with
water ; he gave it to her to taste ; she puts it to her lips and
~pits ; " well, what is it ?" "it tastes like brandy;" well, it
is singular I should fail in that ; she is not very well now;
and when she is not well, she can't tell half so good ; taste
again, Amelia, and see if you can't tell me what it is ?" she
makes a wry face and spits ; "well, what does it taste like ?"
" it tastes like vinegar ;" "no ; ah ! she is not well to~
day, and I thought she would not succeed, very well, but it
is singular, I have done that over and over again for hundreds
of gel.tlemen, and I t·ery seldom fail." I explained this fail-
tire, thus : Gehtlemen, the fact is, health is a very important
thing, but that is not the entire cause ofthe failure. In these
cases, according to my theory, the mind of the magnetizer
must conceive the object or thing, before fie can transmit it
by the magnetic nerves ; and sometimes when he tries to be~
lieve air is water, something else, such as punch or vinegar,
unavoidably comes uppermost on his mind, and is so carried
by the magnetic cords to her brain ; for you see by my the•
ory, that she .can have no knowledge except what is derived
from the brain of the person in magnetic communication,•
•The true theory of thi• is very <asily explained. The somuambulist is by the magn&-
tlzer, serioualy supposed to be asleep, an·! totally Insensible to every thing aai:t ill tho
Digitized by Goog[e
HS
~f .~ had time to explain an the theory, -(whi.ch I intend to do
,\-hen more at leisure;) ·I could make that part perfectly clear
to your minds. All present were satisfied, or at least seemed
so ; though 'when some of them were out of the influence of
my theory, they !tinted some dissatisfaction, as you may per-
ceive by the riotes hereunto appended ; but that is not my
fault, nor yet the fault of my theory, for I cannot be always
'with ·every body to explain the cause and effect of things ;
and it is a well known saying, " out of sight, out of mind,"
and not less true than the familiar proverb, " "hen the old
cat is gone the kittens are at play."
Mr. Andros also paralyzed her right arm in the usual way,
ro •m. In the first plact•, she has_
hean.l ofor prubahly . ecn suc.h things done Lyotlters;
he io anxio11s to know if he enn succeed with her, and talks it over to the company; she Y..
isftigning sltep, anfl hears, aurl grnerally sees every thing that is d(•ne ; he says audibly.
"I will try w 'wit:' t-his knife or pencil to be a water-melon," he hot,eslly thiuks, Le muto:t
hnpress it finnly on his mind that it iB a water-meion, aud the better to enable hiu . to do
10, ht: holds it in both hands, as if it was heavy; sh£' rccch·e$ it, and ofconrse-1 says "il1s
a. wa/(;r·m ~·/on/' be,~au;;(" she heard him or others say, ·'will it to be a water-melon." The
. e~periment ii ne.s:L tried on her, wht-n she is blimlfofderl. ~he ha! her ears and eye-s
open, and ~ce s between the handkerclncf and face (ste chapter V.) an objects h('ld at Jhe
epigastriuw; or if!:!he leans the head back, she ean aee some distar.re, anct if sne ~fles or
lecls the ol:,ject cmuing from two hands, it umst Oe a water-melor ; ifyuu writ~ on paper,
hold tlu's JU:ncil in. both hands and will it to be lemonade, she will answer incorrectly,
and probal>ly suy it is a wuter-mtlon. ·
The same rule holds good, with willing wa~cr to be lemonede; it is fil'8t presented loy
ouc hand, and con~equently, when she thereafter is hlindfoldctland reccivetJ a ~iasa with
one hand, it most Le lemonade. If yoo now write, will it to be wttcr, she will probably
auswer:ineorrect1y, for she is not shrewd enouAh to suppose you would wri.te sQeh a t&iUJ·
ple thing as trater. \\"hen the mngnetir.er intends to will any thing, t:~uch as the uhar:d
to raise," there is always a silence of some aer.onds, and if her eyes are closed, eilence
meaua something, and she guesaes (if her eyes are clo•~d) it mnst be to raise the tjand
Ol' receiva something, &nd she answers accordingly, though not always correet, and even
does not gueiiS right, once in tltree times-such i• the caao with IJ/l somnambulists in
Providenee.
The magn•tlzers are .so infatuated, and so implicitly do they believe ahe is asleep, and
Insensible to allommd, !hat they frequently IIBY audibly, ....,.., l .will•ee ifI cats make her
·belie't's tlue ia medicine ;" she takes it and ans"ers accordingly -even more, I h&ve seen
that <lone In the presence ofa dozen men, who profess anrt are acknowledged to posse11
GOKJION &JUISB, yet.cowd.nllUee It, and l'l!ally believed 1~ possessed tome superna:q·
..r.al.powex.
Digitized by Goog[e
lJt
when she is awake, by direeting the " will" ·forcibly oa it to
carry a stream of magnetic fluid through from the fingers to
the elbow. She then has the use of. .all the system except
that part which isso be~mbed, that, .if cut off, she could not
feel it; neither is she able to mov.e it until Mr. A., by his
Hwill," releases it. Mr. A. requested Mr. Lounsberry to
write on paper, any finger he wished him to release, stating
at the same time, " I sometimes fail in this as in other ex-
periments, but most generally I succeed." Mr. Lounsber-
ry wrote "thumb." Mr. A. threw his will into the thumb
by directing his eyes steadily on it, in a few seconds she be-
gan to move the thumb;" very correct;" now, said Mr. An~
dros, try another, he wrote " little finger ;" he directed his
will on it, and soon the little finger* began to move ; " well
done, you succeed well at this titne, at any ;ate ; try an·
other," said Mr. Andros ; Mr. Lounsberry wrote the name
of another ; Mr. Andros directed his " \Viii" on it, but the
t~rong one came np ; ~r. Andros said it would happen so
sometimes, and requested Mr. L. to name one of the remain-
ing two, he did, and the torong,one was released;" well, that
is singular," said Mr. Andros, who continued, " for most
generally I succeed with nearly all : at' my house in Provi-
dence one evefling, I tried it by request of Mr. Hartshorn,
for a number of gentlemen from Boston and Philadelphia,
and I only failed with one finger." At this time he only fail-
ed with ttoo fingers, and yet my incredulous friend Lounsber~
ry told me afterwards, he '' did not think that was even good
• In these experiments Mr. A. sitt very do•e, and with the most sincere and implicit
('Onfidence ia his willing, or flniUical power, he direct3 the eye on the partieular fin..
ger in~ended ·ro be released. By ohserving the direction of his eye, (which she always
does in this experiment,) she can auess very ne,...iy the one to be ieleased, putieularly
if it is an outside fin~er, as I always o!Jsened his whole face directed to Ike ~de of Lh&
band where (he fo.rlun~te linger was fastehed: ·
Digitized by Goog[e
ltO
guessing." · I: do not hesjtate &o say, lbat if he ever walks
on the water, it will not be by." faith alone."
· CHAPTER XIV.
TENTH AND MOST IMPORTANT EXPERIMENT IN ANIMAL
MAGNETISM AT NEW YORK.
Cerin produces the most wonderj'!-'l effects by cutting off the
magnetic fluid-Cause why-Theory permanently estab-
lished against all opposition-JJiost ready for a lecture.
This afternoon, (Thursday, 24th August, 1837,) was to
form an important era in the history of Animal Magnetism ;
this was to be the grand experiment to prove the soundness
of my theory, and .establish the science on a basis too firm
to be overturned by any combined opposition, and too beau-
tiful and attracting to remain longer unobserved or unadmired
by the sceptical world. I had spent many .tedious hours,
" consumed the midnight oil," and ransacked my brain to
find analogous materials in the .workshop ofnature to strength- ·
en my favorite THEORY against the force of the sceptical
storm.
I called immediately after dinner, and meeting Mr. and
Mrs. Andros in the parlor, I proposed we should retire to
his private room to see the most beautiful of all the magnetic
experiments hitherto atrempted, and one which must carry
conviction to the most stubborn unbelievers of the science.
On entering the private room, I said to them~" my joyis so
great that I can scarcely find words to express it ; l have
thought of an experiment that must place the truth of my THE-
>ORY beyond the possibility of doubt, but in order to try it
.&DOSt etf.ec.tually, lt Will be necessary to }(eep its impression
Digitized by Goog[e
'
'121
from the'mind of ·Mr. Andros in tbe fiJfSt trial, and then see
the effect again, when I have impressed the whole on his
brain. It will be necessary that you should go out and put
.Mrs. A. asleep by time, the 1ame as you have done several
times before ; this course will be nece!sary to ensure success
to the experiment, and then we will be prepared at once to
commence the public lectures, against the opposition of all
the remaining sceptics in the world ; for this will enable me
to prove most conclusively the truth and validity of my THE•
ORl:. I then wrote on a paper, which I gave him, put Mrs.
.flndros to sleep at thirty minutes past four ; toake her at
forty minutes past Jour ; put her to sleep again at five, a11d
come home at half past five o'clock ; do not allow her to hear
any thing that I may say. We compared time by our
watches, (twelve minutes past four,) and I told him to go to
the same place, (Hale's reading room,) to which he went
the preceding day, and amuse himself with readi~g the papers.
'Vhen .\:r. A. had retired, I said to Mrs. Andros, "it is
· only necessary to keep the iQtended experiment from the
mind of Mr. Andros,. as it can have no effect on your mind,
by my theory, and as it is such a beautiful thing, I will ex-
plain it to you : you recollect my showing you the common
magnets at my house, and how by repulsion and attraction, '
I proved there was a fluid running through them ; also, when
I dipped the -ends in steel filings and put them together, how
the steel was interlaced when the current was continued, by
bringing the South and North Poles together, and how the
steel was repelled when the two North Poles came together,
proving there were two currents of flurd meeting together
from opposite directions ; and you also recollect, how I show-
ed you that tho fluid passed through glass, wood, metals
Digitized by Goog[e
and stone, and you know by my theory, the magnetic sleep
is produced by this same .fluid passing from the brain Of the
magnetizer to the brain of the somnambulist ; and you
see, Mr. Andros sends the fluid into your brain, through
walls, wood, and glass, the same as magnets send it through
tpe same materials, only not quite to such a great distance.
All scientific men to whom I have explained my theory, ad-
mit that it is founded on the analogous laws of the universe,
but they are so unwilling to believe it, that they say, 'pro11
e
to us Durant, that there is a fluid passing from the magneti-
zer to the magnetized.' Su~h a request is· very reasonable, '
but it never before occurred to me, how I could prove it to
their satisfaction ; but I have got the idea now, and it is this·:
The fluid in common ma.~nets, passes through all things
kn~wn to t~e scientifi.c world, except cERIN, an ani~alfat I '
tvluch was dtscovererl m a grave yard, where dead bod1es had
been buried many years, and if the fluid between common
magnets will pass through all substances except CERI~, it
must follow by my theory, that the magnetic fluid between
two persons must pass through all substances except OoERJN.
Now you know, it has put you to sleep, when it pass·ed
through two partitions at my house; Mr. Andros also put
you to sleep in this room, when he was in the barber's shop ;
and you know that yesterday, when he was at Mr. Hale's
· reading room, the fluid passed through fiftior a hundred walls
and put you to sleep in this room ; now, so far, it is srrnilar
to the common magnet, but to be perfectly analog-ow:~, the
fluid must be cut off \vhen CI<:RJN is held between the mag-
netizer and the person to be magnetized ; for as the globu~s
of which CERIN is composed are so soft as to mash together;
and prevent the passage of the common magnetic fluid, so
I
' ' ' ' .
sOey' should prevent the pass&!e of the .arne fluid between the
animal ma~ets; and co~sequeatly, if CERIN is held beween
you and Mr. Andros, he cannot put you to sleep. Don't you
see what a beautiful thing this will be to prove my theory,
which is built on a magnetic fiuid, and must therefore prove
the truth of Animal Magnetism beyond the possibility of
doubt. CERIN can be dissolved, and scientific men then sat-
urate wood, cloth, and paper with it, so as to answer all puB-
poses in the common magnetical experiments. You see this
sheet of common tissue paper, look through it-how very
. ihin and porous, and yet it is saturated with CERIN, and to-
~ .
tally prevents any attractio» by common magnets when held
between them ; hence, it must cut off and prevent any pas-
sage of the magnetic fluid between Mr. Andr.os and yourself;
and consequently, (althougl1 he may tiy his 'best,) he cannot
put you to sleep. Now if this succeeds, you see how I wiH
be able to prove to scientmc men, that it is the fluid which
produces the magnetic sleep. I am certain it will succeed,.
and if it fails, I will give up ail pretensions to a knowledge of
science hereafter. I have sent Mr. Andros to 1\lr. Hale's
reading room, and written on paper the time·when he should·
put you to sfeep ; but see how .astonished he will be· when
he comes home, to find you awake by such a simple yet
scientific contrivance ;· you recollect the experiment at my·
house to prove the Pole of the animal' magnet was in the
eye, therefore, all that will be necessary in this case; is for
you to recline the head a little so that I can lay·the cerin pa-
per over your face and eyes, by which means tlie fluid from
Mr. Andros will be thrown off the moment it striKes the·
pap~r "
Mrs. Andros was pleased with my remarks, and I place<£
the sheet of paper over her face. I continued addressing tier
Digitized by Goog[e
ori the nature ofc'EJttN, and the Blifontages this expetiment
'f.•ould give us, in confounding the unbelievers of ·Animal
Magnetism, until thirty-eight minutes past four, when I asked
her if she had felt sleepy. She anawered " no, I have not felt
the least effect of sleep or drowsiness." I now showed her
a true copy of the paper which I had given to Mr. Andros,
by which she would have been asleep eight minutes before,
if the paper of CERIN had not been over her face; and I re•
marked to her, " you see he is to put you asleep by the pa-
per, also, at five o'clock; but you see if he don't fail in that
too; if you feel sleepy at any time, I wish you to say so."
I continued discoursing with her on the subject of the cerin
and lectures, and also on the subject of furnishing her and
Mr. Andros a room in my house, whe~e they would be much
more comfortable than at the Hotel ; all of which she was
much pleased with, and continued awake, and conversing un·
til Mr. Andros arrived at half past five o'clock. I was in ecsta-
cy at the succe5t1 ofthe experiment, and on giving him the same
explanation that l had made to Mrs. A., he seemed as muc:h
delighted as myself. I remarked, that we should now try it
in the room, to be ·more sure, as the great distance from tbe
reading room might have lessened the fow~ of the fluid.
He commenced the trial, while I held the paper before her
face, and he continued four times as; long as is necessary to
produce sleep without producing any .effect, and said it was
no use to try any longer, for he was satisfied that the· CERIN
out off all influence of the fluid from him; and all were de-
,lighted at the success of the experin1ent. Nothing could now
delay the lectnres, and an immense fortune would soon be
acquired by both of us. I remarked, that Mr. Hale should
know the success ef the beautiful experiment, as· he had s-een
all t~ other important parts of the theory tested~ and. would
Digitized by Goog[e
125
h~ of much assistance in the lectures: it was agreed that ~
should see it forthwith, ~d Mr. .A. and myself left the.room
to call on him. At the parlor door we met Mr. Peter F.
Ewer, and told him that I would return in a few minutes
with Mr. Hale, and show him the most beautiful of all the
magnetic experiments; he promised to be ther~ on my re-
turn, to witness it. Mr. A. remained with Mr. Ewer, while
I went to invite Mr. Hale, whom I found nt the reading
room, and on saying to him '' well, Hale, the CERI!'i
succeeded, and my theory is triumphant," he clapped his
hands in great . joy, and burst into a loud laugh, (very un-
mannerly, indeed, in my presence,) ru1d so immoderate was
it, that he was obliged to lean against the wall to sustain
himself. I never like'to copy bad examples, or laugh in a
person's face, but somehow, the magnetic ccrds between Mr.
Hal~ and myself touched the sympathetic nerves of the brain,
which so overc·ame me, that I was from necessity obliged to
lean against the wall to assist my North Pol.e in sustaining
the system; indeed, a clean carpet to roll on, I think, would
have been a: great relief to quiet the pain in my side. ·when
we recovered sufficient to walk, we started fo,· the y arick
House, where we met Mr. Ewer and his lady in the hall,
about to leave for the evening. . He said, "Mr. Andros has
tried to explain that experiment to 1ne, but I don't under-
stand it; he says you have got something that cuts off the
fluid, and prevents putting her to sleep ; I am engaged out
this evening, but I will see it to-morrow." On leaving him,
Mr. Hale and myself we~ up stairs to Mr. Andros' room to
try' the beautiful experiment with CERIN for Mr. Hale. I pro-
posed that Mr. A. should firs.t put her to sleep, to ascertain if
his magnetic power was at all diminished. H~ was seated·
wi\hin about five fee! of Mrs. Andros, and Mr. H!Ue held.the
o;g;lizedbyGoogle
126
watch, to ascertain the time required to put her asleep ; it
wu •little sllort ofa minute, proving his magnetic power as
strong as ever. I now requested him to wake her up, which
he did. I now held the cerin paper before her face, an9 told
h~ to put her asleep ; he tried for seven minutes, and did
No:r produce the least drowsiness. She said, "he does not
affect me in the ltast."
The plate which accompanies this work, is intended to con- ·
vey a more perfect idea of this beautiful experiment, which
must settle k>rever the truth of Animal Magnetism, and es-
tablish beyoqd the possibility of doubt my philosophical THE·
oar, which is thus proved to be based on the broad and cer-
tain foundation of the Datura} laws that have been knotDn to ,
man since the discovery of loadstone, and which have been i.-
felt ·On our race since the creation of Eve. In the plate,
(see frontispiece,) Mrs. Andros is represented sitting in the
rocking chair, and the modest discoverer of the theory hold-
ing the cerin paper before her ; professor Andros is repre-
sented in the usual position, trying to " will" Mrs. A. in .
magnetic sleep; the magnetic fluid is represented by Jines
coming from his eyes (North Pole,) to her eyes, and int~>r­
cepted in its course by the CERIN, which breaks tne magnc'
ic cord, and scatters the fluid in the room to recombine With
the atmosphere from whence it was " willed" through to til"
South Pole (feet) of the professor, "This exquisite engrct
ving was executed at great expense, expressly for this work...
It is engraved by Adams, .from a drawing by Cbapnu1u,
and designed by the Author.
Mr. A. remarked, "it i• no use to try any more ; I ba~u
been long enough to have put her asleep half a dozen times,
and I have tried so hard, that it makes my bead ache; l aw.
H .
Digitized by Goog[e
127
perfectly sa&isfied that I cu.'t put her to sleep with dlat be..
tween us."
All were now in ecstacy at the M~ccess &f this experiment1
which would leave no difficulty in the way of convinciag sci...
entific men of the truth of this int~resting science. Mr. A.
remarked, that he had not been able to ·ellplain the nature of
the experiment to Mr. Ewer, because he forgot the name of
the article in the paper. I replied, " I am glad ?fit, because·
after more thought, I think it will be best to keep this sectet
between us four, until we commence the lectures. If we tell
Mr. Ewer, he will tell Mr. Dodge, and then all Providence
will know it before we are ready to use it for our own advan-
tage; so let it now be fairly understood, that we are· to tell
JJobody of this for the present; it is not right that we should be
at so much trouble to find out things, and have others io make
an improper use of it before we get ready to lecture. 1f Mr.
Ewer asks you, Mr. Andros, any thing about it, tell him you·
don't understand it well enough to explain it. And tell him
further, that I want to try some more 1
experiments, to have-
it perfect before we show it to others. I have· no desire to·
have Mr. Ewer* know any thing about i't yet; it will be time
enough for him to know when we commence lectures. .I
am sorry we said any thing to him about it, though he cannot
know much from whlft has already been said to him, and he·
may easily be put off in the manner r d'escl'ibed' to you.r~
• lb. Ewer, al!bOia(h a believer In .'JnimalMacneliom, Ia nevenbelen, a otery illlelllg<tnt
man, and lflapob to him ofurin ~r any thi"'l el•~ cuu.inr olt'fu! attraction ofmqneta
be would have discovered at once the dupllcl!y, and then I' oliould liave been obliged
to gi'fa· up any further-experiments; <Y't let him• In the oeent, wlllehloow wao not wllliDI
to do ; becaase I bad already concel'ted the Idea of.rarryln( out tbe game with the Pru·
'fldenre aomn•mbull~~e, whom, through 'DodJe aiM Ewer, fltitltf ~ eometblnr about
ttrin, and e:rplod• tbo whole theory, wbleb olherwloe wao made up oi1J!IIter outlleienlly
&D.\IogoUI'IOo oowa.Jawa, to wltbttand-even.•.tolerable·1ia1lllleot 1\"<>m • man ro~IDI
acionef,;
Digitized by Goog[e
128
Mr. aM 'Mrs. Andros seemed much pleased with the idea of
keeping it to ourselves; and Mr. A. remarked, ''Ewer will
ask me about it in the morning, far. be was very anxious to
ki)~w:; h~ slid h.e knew it must ,be of great importance, for
Duran' looked so pleased. ''
Mrs. Ambos urged the neces;ity of htlving the editors to
see an experiment on the morrow, and then com~ence
at once with the lectures. She had always been very impa-
tient, and once or twice said, .if the lectures were not very
SOOn COmmenced, she WOuld go home. It was with iiOIDe
difficulty that I could, from time to time,.find exm1ses for the
delay; and among other things I had said, it was necessary
first, to interest some scientific and influential men, and then
invite the editors, to make it known to the public. I now
promised to call in the· morning to arrange the t~me for re- .
ceiving the editors, and go with Mr. A. to look for a lecture
room. Mr. Hale and myself then hid them good night, and
retired.
' , .. . hJ
Digitized by Goog[e
•
CHAPTER XV.
FlllST LECTURE ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM BY THE AUTHOR• .
Philoaophical reaaoning on the incidenta connected vitA et~eftll
-.Mra• .flndr01 goea to Pr0t1idence-lmportant diaclo-
BUT¥ made to .Mr. .flndroa-.Magnetic Bleep 1hown to be
no aleep at all-Plans of great promiae for the future.
Great discoveries, like " misfortunes, seldom come alone,"
and two circumstances seems necessary to complete any im-
portant event. All nature seems to move by two's ; we have
two ears, and two hands ; ,, day succeeds night," and " sun-
shine succeeds storm;'' so in the magnetic science, every thing
seems to go in two's; it takes two to make a somnambu-
list, one to " will" and the other to sleep1 one to ask ques-
tions and the other to answer thein, one to write aud seal
letters and the other to read them, one experiment to prove
sleep and the other to show the cause, one experiment to
prove the fluid can't be cut off and the other to show you
can cut its head off ; and having made known one such
discovery, it is necessary to make known another ; in dis-
closing the effect of c E Rl N, one party was overjoyed, and 1·
feared in disclosing the. cause, the other party would be over-
powered. A river is formed by accumulation, and Bows
quietly on in the time-worn channel, when the same mighty
mass, if suddenly turned loose from the fountains, would have
inundated the brook~ and overpowered and uprooted in its
course, the organized forms which for ages had braved the
fluid of storm. I feared to make the new discovery known
tO Mrs. Andros, lest the natural weakness of woman would
be overpowered undel' the excitement of surprise, and I fear-
de to disclose all a> .Mr. Andros, while she was near to scan
•
Digitized by Goog[e
130
with her invisible eyes the emotions that would be produced
oil her husband, in making known to him the most beautiful
discovery in the science ; I therefore. resolved to seljl.d her
to Providence, and communicate to him alone the appendix
to my lucid theory of Animal Magnetism.
I called in the morning, (25th August,) and told t,hem it
· would be impossible to commence exhibitions short of a
week ; that I wanted time to write out the lectures and pro-
cure a suitable room ; and in order to make a permament
commencement, I thought it would be best for .Mrs. Andros
to go home for that time ; because, while here, many friends
were anxious to see experiments, which only consumed the
time necessary for our preparatio.n, and in her absence I could
arrange a room at my house to &ccommodate them on her re-
turn; this was readily acceded·to by Mr. Andros, but she
only complied after shedding a profusion of tears.• It was
decided ·that she should leave that afternoon in the steam-
boat Narragansett, for Providence, as things seemed most fa-
'vorable for the departure that day. Col. Cady, an intimate
friend of the family, was going that day, and offered to take
charge of Mrs. Andros ; besides, Capt. Childs was an inti-
mate friend, and offered to take his niece as company for Mrs.
A. on lhe voyage. She left at five in the afternoon, and Mr.
Andros en~aged to call at my. residence the following morn-
ing, to discuss with me the arrangements necessary for the
lectures.
He called according to appoi"ntrrtent, and after much con-
versation about the seience generally, and the Providence
somnambulists in particular, we repaired to an upper and more
• I think that Mn. 4odroa 111Upected my real illtentiono, and aucll aurmlae wu th•
Qtqe of her toara.
•
private room, where I opened to him the following discourse.
f have much to say to you, Mr. Andros, and desire you
will hear me patiently before you make any reply ; it is a
subject that may, and unquestionably must, cause you great
surprise and agitation, and induce you at first to suppose me
an enemy to you ; but when you have heard me through, I
know you will thank me for that which I have done, and
not only will you justify my conduct, but you will be more
than ever convinced of my friendship towards you. I am
and lrltve been continually aware of my deep responsibility
to your friends and yourself. I promised Mr. Dodge and
.Mr. E"·er, as I premised your to investigate fairly and un·
prejudiced the merits of Animal Magnetism, and I further-
more promised to be your friend, and when I should have
completed the investigation, to give you and the world my
candid opinion of its merits. I was satisfied from the com-
mencement that you was perfectly honest and sincere in your
belief, and I knew you would forgive the employment of du-
plicity to undeceive you. I have pretended to be a believ-
er. I saw the weak points of the pretended science, · and
framed a false theory to attack it. I could have satisfied my-
self without it. I could in any one exhibition have convin-
.\ ced myself and those present.th~t th~ whole is a deception,
\ but I had a more extended. a1m m v1ew; I saw thousands of
credulous people led astray by this intricate mystery, and
judging from the history of Europe, millions in our own
country would in all probability become dupes to the decep-:-
tion ; a belief in such mysterious and supernatural powers
would disqualify all in the community frolll dischatging the
social duties to each other, which are so ess.ential to the well
being of society. The pretensions of the deception are so
•
Digitized by Goog[e.
132'
Uililatural, that even intelligent persons are led to. believe
because they .cannot comprehend it, and think it·may be true
because others believe it ; those who go with minds prepared
to see a miracle, will see something incomprehensible, only
because they are not prepared to scan such an extremely sim·
~a deceptio~. You, Mr. Andros, I pity, because others
more intelligent than yourself have worked on your mind a
firm belief of this doctrine. You acknowledged to me that
the conviction of its supposed truth took entire possession of
your brain. You saw others around you .believe~s, and you
unavoidably allo\ved the delusion to suppress your reasoning
powers ; it caused you to forsake your business, and spend in
solitude and abstraction the hours usually devoted to social
conversation with friends.. Your wife saw your infatuation, and
·very naturally humoured the delusion ; she even probably
.supposed the scie~ce was true. Poyen had taught, that all
possessed and felt the power. Mrs. Andros, in a belief of
such supernatural effects, was not capable of scanning her
<>wn feelings ; she felt a queer sensation, and ·supposed it
must be magnetism, because the manipulations or passes used
were said to produce magnetic sleep ; she felt perhaps a
drowsiness from monotonous fatigue; she expressed a" sleepy
sensation," and you supposed it must be magnetism. Your
whole soul was bent on producing it, and at this first glimmer
ofsuccess you expressed your delight. She wished to please
-you more, and said she felt more sleepy. Women are fond
of fame ; she knew other somnambulists were famous in the
mouths of the credulous ; she saw a good opportqnity ; she
concluded to carry ·it further, and feigned the whole. Sh€
is not so much to blame, because she originally intended it
p.erhaps to please you ; but when once she had staked her
Digitized by Goog[e
133.
character as a somnambtdist, she was obliged to carry it
through, or expose herself and you to the ridicule of the
world. Hundreds called at your bo~se to see the phenome-
no~: and she thought she must do as all otlier m~etic som-
nambulists do ; she must raise the hand when you'' wifil' it,
and nothing could be more easy for any body to do ; for )n
this most strange infatuation, you allbelieve that the· somnam-
bulist has neither hearing_ nor feeling, and you freely talk
among yourselves around her, about what you intend to
"will·;" she has her eats open and hears all you are saying,
and consequently it is very easy to raise ahand, when she
knows by her ears that you ' 4 willh it. You next blindfold
her to make some new experiments ; here she makes an im--
portant discovery ; she.finds the nose prevents the handker-
chief from touchiBg a portion of the face, and she can see
things held at the epi~astrium. You are so infatuated, that
you never think oftrying a handkerchiefon yourself, nor there-·
fore, of the facility of seeing _when blindfolded in that manner.
She takes thiLgs in her hands, ancl holding them to the-
epig~strium, can read almost as well blindfolded as without•.
My nose is smaller than Mrs. Andros'~ and my cheek more
full, yet the evening after t saw her first experiment,. I
blindfolded myself with two handker~lllefs, and read an en-
'/ tire page in a book, which I held to theepigastrium. Y.ou
next send her in spirit to some distant place, and she thinks
she must carry out the game commenced ; she pretends she
sees the house ; you put leading questions, and slie answers
perhaps one · in ten correct ; she is shrewd, and readily
guesses chairs, table, carpet, lamp, glass and sofa in the
parlor. Yo~ are so infatuated that you think her spirit is
the~;e,, when if you would reflect one· moment, r.ou would.
Digitized by Goog[e
134
at once be able to perceive the fact that she bas told no- .
thing that you could not have guessed yourself. You next
say in her hearing,-" See if 1 can 'will' this pencil to be a
wate; melon." You are so honest that you think you must
impress a water-melcin on your own brain, .and you hold it
with both .hands as if it was such ; she knows by her ears
what you " will," and therefore says,-" lt is a water
rttelon. '1 Some incredulous person now writes it on paper,.
and consequently her ears are of no use, but she can feei,
and feeling you present it with both hands, she says "it is a
melon." So you present a tumbler with one hand to make it
lemonade. Now, if some one writes on paper "will" this
stick to be lemonade, you present it with one hand, and she
says it is lemonade ; any body could do the same. Write
oil paper to "will" some unexpected thing, and she fails ;
in your infatuation, yoQ think the' failure is caused by your
imperfect " will ;" but the real cause of the failure is, be-
cause you do not first talk it over so that she can hear it.
Tbe~e are not mere opinions, Mr. Andros, but facts; drawn
from the experiments tried with Mrs. Andros. I knew it
would be difficult to make.you believe such things from your
bosom friend, but the facts are too glaring to admi·t of doubt,
and you must now see that' your wife has deceived you! and ,Y
though I have not seen any other magnetic somnambulist,
yet I am confident, from the nature of their pretended \.YOrk.s,
that all the magnetic somnambulists mtl8t be deceivers, and -...·
many of the magnetizers may be knowing to it, though they
·may all be as much duped as yourself.
I discovered the deception in the first experiment, but: to
~vince the world of the imposition, I knew: many facts
~d be .requisite~ I saw no better opport®ity to obtain
o;9itiz~ by Coogle
135
1 experimentl than to invent a false theory, and pretend to be
a believer, the better to succeed with the enterprise. I not
only advocated my theory to you and your wife, but I have
.also advocated it with all persons, (except Mr. Hale,) for
fear~ that among many, the duplicity would come to your ears
and depri\·e me of the opportunity to investigate the decep-
tion; with my be~t friends, and e\·en with my brother, I have
up to this time, continued to advocate the theory which I bau
told over so often and so serious, that I almost believe it
/ myself; the part of it relating to cerin, I ba\·e~;ve~- told to
any except ~lr. Hale, bPcause it would have exposed.my de~
signs at once; all persons know that the attraction of magnets
cannot be cut off by any substance yet discovered; hf're is
, the paper with which I prevented you from putting Mrs. An-
dros asleep, it is nothing but a sheet of tissue paper, and no-
thing can be put on it that could cut off the attractio~ of mag-
nets; I called it cerin, because I was fearful it would reach
the ears of some curious person who might wish to try the
experiment, and I kne\V it would be almost impossible to pro-
cure it. I have always reconciled the failures by the theory,
and I have no doubt, most intelligent persons who have
heard me advocate the pretended science, think me either In
league with you to make money by deception, or else infatu-
ated wit1
1 a false doctrine. In all the experiments that I have
seen ·with .Mrs. Andros, she has been as wide awake as you
are at this moment. She begins to suspect the object of my
experiments, and her tears yesterday were caused by her
consciousness of guilt; that bleeding experiment is still on
ber mind. You must know by what she told me the following
morniog, that a fear of being bled was the sole cause of her
cryingandjumpi,lg from the chair. Whep I gave yoQ memo•
Digitized by Goog[e
nn'dums to put ~er asleep by time; she must know that she
did not shut her ~yes at the time ·.designated, and she must
know, by my always taking the papers from you, that I had
·some other design than that which I made kn6wn to you; I
wrote, don't put her in magnetic communication with me, and
. yet by talking, I made her believe such was to be the case,
and she actually talked to me; by the same means, I have
willed, as you call it, a knife to be an apple, and also caused
her to open her eyes when you thought she was asleep, and
could hear no person but yourself. I have been cal'eful to
preserve a memorandum of"all these things, and I opened my
designs to Mr. Hale, expressly to make him a witness. If
you are not satisfied from all these facts that she is awake, I
will suggest a plan for you to satisfy yourself; tell her sometime
that you want to see precisely to a second, how long it will re- ·,
I
quire to put her asleep when you are in an adjoining room ;
set your watch in her presence, as if you \vished to be very
exact, or else she may mistrust you ; when you go in the
adjoining room, keep your mind on something else, and I
will guarantee on your return, you will find her pretending
sleep with her eyes closed. Such an experiment should
satisfy you that you do no_
t cause the sleep in any other way,
than to let her know by your words that you want her to
·shut her eyes.
If you want to test her power of seeing, hold a handker-
chief·below her nose close to her mouth, as I did at the first
;experiment, when she said the ragged piece of a letter was a
bank notfl; or hold something behind her, and you will soon
•find that she can see no better than other persons who are
:wide itwake, with. the handkerchief over their eyes; I
Jmo.w ·
.
tt ;will be diflicqlt for you to believe your w•fe has. .
oi9,tized by Google
137
deceived you, but if you will reflect on what I told you,
you will see that I cannot be mis.taken; I thought it best to
send her home before I di~closed all this to you, so you would
l1ave time for reflection before you could see her; .it is not
ilecessary for her ever to know this; she may even die in the
belief that her deception remains undiscovered. I intend ~
1. expose the nakedness of this pretended science to the worlg,
. but I think the ringleader should be made the scape-goat 'o
'/- carry the brand of deception. Poyen•s head should bear the
· iniquity of this imposition-it is him that has led yotJo aod
thousands of others astray. I have nO( seen him, but I. think
lie must know the whole is a deception, and I wish ~o. make
him the example of exposure; you will be the most suitable
person to put him in my power, and the plan I would advise
in this; you say he wanted you to wait in Providence umil·he
should finish his lectiH'es in. Nantucket,. and then be would
come with you to New York, by giving him one third of the
money to be made by lectures. Now writehim a letter, and
tell him that you have found a friend, Mr. Durant,- who has
undertook to assist you, and who advises you to procure~. if
possible} •he assistance of Mr. Poyen, a~ he is so well known,
that the lectures would be heard with less opposition from
the few incredulous men, and say that your friend, ·Mr~ Du-
rant, has a theory which explain& al! the phenomena et Ani-
mal Magnetism so elearly, that most all, among the many· who
have seen your private experiments, are now firm believers
in the science; tell him it is my opinion tha~ half a di>zen
fortl!llles could b& made with the lectures in New Y&rk,
and Jhat you will give him half of the receipts ;- tiy such
means we may get him to the city, and then I will manage
the rest. As Mrs. Andros- wa11 to returQ. on Monday, you
Digitized by Goog[e
138
may· write to her 1o remain until" we get ready for the lee•
tures, which you can siy are unavoidably 'put off a few days,
in consequence of fitting up a room. We will continue to
advocate aU parts of my theory, exceptihe cerin, which you
must not mention ·to any person, because, if a man of true
science, or even common sense; hears of cerin cutting off the
magnetic fluid, the whole theory will be blown up. All other
parts of the theory are so well framed that l can for a time
keep up a good argument ·in its favor, e'ven if scientific men
should attack it ; and, indeed, it is so analogous to known X
laws, that it would ·not astonish me if sleep should be pro.. '\
duced in that way. I trust you will now forgive thtl duplicity,
and believe me, what I ·· professed to be, at heart, your
friend.
·Mr. Andros listened patiently, and, as.the reader may well
imagine, with surprise and sorrow. I really never pitied a
man more than I pitied Mr. Andros, and 1 think the most
difficult task· of my life wa10, summonin~; resolution to unde-
ceive him on this occasion. I would gladly have avoided it,
bu·t a sense of duty prompted me to the task ; he madP. but
few objections, but thought " Mrs. Andros must ihink she
was asleep. It is not possible for aJJ in Providence to be
mistaken ; they certainly think they are asleep." I re-
ca11ed to his mind the various experiments recorded in this
work. He acknowledged them as I stated, calculated to
leavt: the impression which I had imbibed, but he named many
extr~ordinary cases done in Providence, in presence of the
1110st respectable witnesses, which would prove unquestiona-·
bly, that there was some truth in the science. I told him ~
they were not fairly tried ; that the witnesses went prepared
to see miraCles, and they saw them. He acknowledged, a5
Digitized by Goog[e
l;J9
_
I named over ~ ~ire.~~~~' ~ ~~ ,...drQs --d·n~ .
done any thi-ng in my preseQcq th~t a p,elJQQ awakf c~;>Uld
not do. ' yet " she must think .she, is asleep ;" he confessed
that my conduct toward~ birp ~as, througbput, irreproacQa4 •
ble, and he still considered rue his friend.. .He thought if I
would go to Providence, that he could convince me by .soa1e
of the somnambulists, of som~ truth in the scien~e ; be prorpi-
sed to write, as I requested, for Poyen, but he would rather
have me go to Provid~?~e, for .
thenJ might be ~atisfied of
the truth of the science, and be could, with m.y assis~ance,
commence his lectures in New York.
A week now elapsed, ~vitoout receivipg any intelligence,
by letter, from Poyen. I saw Mr. Andros.each day~ and he
contined his solicitations for me to visit Providence ; he said
he knew he sbo1.1ld he able, when there, to show me experi-
ments that would convince me of the truth of Animal Mag-
netism. I consented to go with ·him, rutd promised, if be
would show me one single case that proved a magneti-c sleep
in which the somnambulist could do any thing that a person
awake could not dot I would g-ive him my little infiuenee to
advance his interest with the public.. We accordingly starred
for Providence, in the st~am-boat Rhode-Island; on Satur-
day, 2d Sept., and arrived the fol'lowing ,day; the experi-
m~nts in that city, forms the subject mat~er for the nbse-
quent ehapters.·
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER XVI.
E'LEVENTH, TWELFTH, AND THIRTEENTH EXPEJliMENf'&
IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM, AT PJlOVIJ;>ENCE, a. I.
Mrs. JJ.ndros sees no better at home than abroad-THEORY
rising in the toorld-Miss JJ.nn Eliza Ebon feels que-er
-thinks she is asleep--opens her eyes by the new theory
after being burned to death-Magnetic Somnambuliim
in a dog-his case is described in the notes.
WE arrived in Providence, September 3d, and in the
afternoon of the same day I called to see Mrs. Andros, whom
I found at her house, in excellent health. I judged thls a
good opportunity te satisfy all parties that very good l}ealth ·
is not a very important requisite in magnetic somnambulism.
I requested Mr. A.- to put her asleep, which he did in a
m.inute and a half. When eight or ten.minutes had elapsed, ·
I asked her 'the time by clock in the sam'e room. She an-·
swe~;ed "I can't see t~ery plain; it i8 a quarter past ttco. ,., (It
was eleven minutespast two.) I held behind her a key. Mr.
A. asked her to " look at and tell what it 1s ?" She an-
swered "a pencil ease." Mr. A. wrote on paper" Durant,,.
aod asked her to read it. (She was blindfolded.) She an-·
swered " I can't see "ery plain.• I thiRk one' letter is D."
Similar unimportant things Were done with the same success,
and she was permitted to awake. In a conversation with her
at this time, I found Mr. A. had! told Iter there' was" nothing
in the oerin,'' and that it ·bad been use-d only to see the effect
• Tile f~ wao, ahe ..., 'fer7 elearl7 the IIIUIUI "'Duran&," ll>r It waa beld at llur
•pigastrium, bnt abe waa afraid to read It all, leal It abonld exelta aupleion abont·
Hlln1 aU thlap at the eplp.ltrlum, aad· aeeillr •l'l>nrJ1 all thlnp brkl ill otber·
p~-. Tbe r.,:ler recolle~ the"- Uld.~eek" lit-tile lnU~Ial't<
141
of the inind. She asked why I wished to try •such things.
This took me so much by surprise, that I had like to have
failed in accounting for it. I explained bow the mind was an
essential part of my theory, and how: various things should
affect it in various ways.
On leaving, Mr. A. went to my lodgings (City Hotel) with
me, and I took occasion to reprimand him for telling Mrs. A.
any thing about the cerin, ·further than she knew. He said
he had not told her any thing about its real character, but only
enough to prevent her from naming the cerin at all to any other
person, and he added-" She is still as ignorant as a child
about the real nature of that experiment."
Even if he had told the whole, it was now unimportant, for
l knew it would not do to talk about trying cerin in Provi-
dence, where, among so many professors, some, at' least,
would know that magnetic attraction could as well be cut off
with moonshine as with cerin, and there was more than
enough left of the f:beory to cut off th'ir deception without tht
assistance of cerin. ·
F·romthe time of my arrival, Mr. Andros had been very
industrious in. trying. to induce the professors to show me
experiments · in the science. He represented (by my re-
quest) that Mr. Durant had come to collect proofs in support
of his theory of Animal Magnetism, which disputed clair-
voyance, and advocated all other parts of the science ; and
to his intimate friends he told that he paid me fifty dollars to .
come and get proofs of the doctrine, to assist him in intro-
ducing the lectures in New York~ The first gentlemen he had
J seen on the subject were Professor Americus V. Potter, and
!' Professor Christopher PotUlr, twin brothers, .and.manufac-
turing jewellers of Providence:· They are highly respectable
Digitized by Goog[e
142
men, and on all subjects except the magnetic science, they
seem to possess a ·tolerable share of good sense. On my in-
troduction to these gentlemen, they admitted frequent doubts X
as to somnambulists telling any thing more than was on the
mind of the magnetizer. They expressed much pleasure that
I had undertaken the investigations with a proper spirit of
inquiry. They admitted my theory was .philosophically
formed, and they hoped to see me establish it by experiment,
promising to do all in their power to aid me, by ~aining access
to all the principal somnambulists. At five o'clock on the same
day we met at the residence of Mr. Andros. Mr. A. Potter
now put Mrs. A. asleep, and asked her what Mr. Durant held
behind her. She answered-" It looks like a pencil case."
I showed it to him, (it was a toothpick.) I now held a pebble
stone. She said in answer to "what is it ?" " It looks
dark ; I can't see tchat it is." I next held a map in a red
morocco case. He asked her-" what does Mr. Durant
hold behind you ?" She answered-" It is light color ; it
looks like paper, but I can't see to tell what it is." Mr.
Christopher Potter now held his empty clenched fist behind
her, and she was asked-" what does Christopher hold behind
you ?'' She answered-" It is a pen-knife." Thus every
experiment failed on her part; but I reconciled them all tomy
theory, and accounted for the failures of imperfect impression
of the things on the brain of Mr. Potter, as all the knowledgf;
was of course derived from him by the magnetic cords or
nerves.
In the evening Mr. Christopher Potter called on me at
the City Hotel, and offered to show me the only somnam-
bulist he then had under his charge ; he said she had never
been able to see at a distance, but in all other respects sie
I
Digitized by Goog[e
143
was eq~ to· the· best · somnambulist in llrovidlmce. - H~r
name is Ann .Eliza. E~ou, he described her as·ao very intelli- -
gent and amiable girl, w.ho bad long labored under a. disease ·
of the spine, but who was now rapidly recovering under his··
magnetical treatment. I went·with him and saw her at the
house of her friend., where ·she now resides expressly.to re- --
ceive:.the. profes~ional visits· of Mr. Potter. J. wll*'now per-·
fectl~ satisfied . that both the Mr. Potters were honest and .
sinceJ"e ill; thei~ belief of Animal .Magnetism, and this seemed •
the more.·extraordinary, as they both seemed to possess; on·•
other matters, .a.very quick and accurate conception of things.
Miss Eboo was. represented as a .very good somnan'lbulist in
all things except• clairvoyance, which all' acknowledged she
did not posse!li·.r this ·seemed still more mysterious, that she·
should not pretend to the most wonderful and easy part of the<
deception·; ~ bu.t t11e .whole mystery was very soon made per-·
fectly clear.,- as,you'· will find in the sequel. .. When Mr.
Christopher:Potter and myself entered·the room, there were
present three ladies helonging to the house, and Mis8 Ebon,:·
with whom,l comm~nced conversation, immediately after the
jntwduction. Sfie is about sixteen years of age, and bent
forwards in conseqtlehce of the diseased spine;·otherwise she
seems to possess gEJod health; and is rather em bon point ;
she speaks·quick, ruad exhibits very Jihle cultivation or reach
of mind ; her conversation is iri detatched words, from which
her meaning can be ·easilr understood ; · she is de'void of
shrewdness, and so much·ofitnatUral in her appearance and
conversation, as to satisfy the obsei'ferthat sh(rdoes not know
enuugh to practise deceptidn~ . The readermay suppose I
am painting a ,singular picture,,DYI showing'ffbo ·persons per-
fectJy honest;-and y~t i!}tending~td"p;t:·ove·.tlieir actions ue de-
Digitized by Goog[e
'
144
ceitful ; but it is no more singular than true; Mr. Potter and
Miss Ebon both firmly and honestly believe she is in a pecu-JI
liar sleep, and subject to his will in all her actions ; when at
the same time, she is.no more, asleep than I, who ain writing
this history. Singular ~ such a state of things may appear
to the reader, it can, ·nevertheless·, be demonstrated and made
perfectly clear to your undel'standings, by an attentive perusal
of the circumstances conneCted with the experiment. Miss
Ebon is the only SE~F-DECEIVED magnetic somnambulist y._
that I have seen, and; therefore her case merits a more par-
ticular de~cription .
She was seated in arocking chair ;:and Mr. Potter seated
directly in front, with her knees pressed between his own,
comroen~ed the manipulations or passes, by first holding her
thumbs in his hands, then pressing his hands on her forehead,
then draws them down on bet shoulders and' thighs to the
knees, their presses both hands on the stomach and bowels,
then again on the forehead, shoulders and thighs to the knee»;
and so corrtim.tes alternately ; and at the same time honestly
supposing his " will" has something to do with the sleep, he
keeps his eyes (and he has sharp ones,) directed on hers
with such muscular force as even tO cause 'him pain j he OC·
casionally says to her, '' Ann Eliza, do you feel sleepy yet ?
.Ann Eliza, ·how do you feel ?" and she as often answers,
'' Oh ! I don't kn.ow." " I don't know, .Mr. Potter, I feel
a little queer." " I feel alittle sleepy, .Mr. P~tter." Re
contihues the manipulations, and again addresses her, "how
do you feel riow, Ann Eliza ?" ." Do you sit easy ?,.· " D'o
you feel sleepy now ?" " Try, see if you can open your·
eyes, Ann Eliza ?" She in tum answers, u·Oh ! lfe'e(
more·right." " rmgood, I sit good." " I feel sleepy JlOti!;·-:
i2
Digitized by Google
145
.Mr. Potter ;" and then slowly opens her eyes wider than
when in a natural waking state, at the same time saying, " Oh!
no, I could not have been asleep ;" he then says, "no, shut
your eyes again, Ann Eliza;" and continuing the passes, he
says after a few moments, " how do you feel now, Ann Eli-
za ?_'' "do you feel sleepy now, Ann Eliza ?" "try to open
your eyes ;" and she in turn, answers again, " Oh ! I feel
right, just right ;" " I'm sleepy now, .Mr. Potter;" " I'm
exactly right now, .-A-fr. Potter, I can't open my eyes."
This occupied about ten minutes, and when I toln Mr. Pot·
ter that Mr. Andros generally put his lady asleep in one or
two minutes, he remarked, the sleep could not be good, when
done so quick; and he continued, " I have often told Mr.
Andros, that he put his wife asleep too quick ; I generally
occupy from ten to fifteen minutes." He eommenced by
willing the hand to raise, and accompanied it with saying, " I
will now see if I can 1
ake her raise the righ.t hand." She of
col!rse raised the right hand. He said, "she is now penectly
asleep;" I asked ifshe could hear me speak; he said,· "no, she
could not hear a cannon fired by her ears." " Do you hear
Mr. Dunmt, Ann Eliza?" she answered, ".N'o, !don't hear
any body but you, Mr. Potter." "Try her, Mr. Durllflt,
see if she hears you." I then called her name, " Miss Ebon, }
do you hear me?" she answered, " 1 don't hear .Mr. Durant,
.Ur. Potter." "No," said Mr. Potter, "·I have tried her
often, and she can't hear a gun fired to her ears ; nor she don't
feel pinching, or if you should cut her arm off, she would
not feel it.." Before I proceed with the experiments, I will
here give the reader the true situation of things. · Mr. Pot-
ter is about thirty years of age, short of stature, but full,
hale and healthy ; he is a firm and ardent believer in this sci- t
Digitized by Goog[e
•
146
ence, and believes the patient cannot feel or hear any
thing, unless he " wills" it ; consequently, he, and all f.
around, talk freely and loudly, about what they wish her
to do. She is about sixteen years of age, and extremely
simple ; she hears of Animal Magnetism, and she thinks
it must be true, because her acquaintances tell her it
I
is so. . Cures are supposed· to be effected by it, and her
friends wish Mr. Potter (who is considered one of the best
professors) to cure her diseased spine. She has all.the
animal passions and lust common to that age, -ivithOtit intel-
lect to understand it. She is i"ntimate witll'l\Ir. Potter, who
is very lively and sociable. She feels the warm knees of a
hale, robust man, pressing against hers. She feels his warm
hands pressing and creeping over her forehead, stomach,
bowels, arms and thighs. She feels, as she expressed it,
•' queer," "sleepy." What girl of her age and full habit of
body would not "feel queer?" She is told that this is
magnetism. She readily believes it, and feels "just right,"
because she likes the "queer feelings" of this magnetism.
They tell her that persons in magnetic sleep do not hear any
body, unless" willed," (told, as she understands it,) to hear
them. Others speak to her, and she thinks she is in mag-
netic sleep, and cannot hear them. Therefore, she says,
-"No; I don;t hear a'!l-y body but you, .Mr. Potter."
She is told they can see things with invisible eyes at a great
distance ; this is above her comprehension; and she says she
does not see at a distance; or, in other words, she has not
." clairvoyance." This is p.roof to me that she. is honest and
sincere.• They now tell her that the magnetizer can "will"
the hand to raise ; that she understands, and thinks she must
do it. The light does not " hurt her eyes," and therefore,
147
she does not ask to be blindfolded. She knows that to be
asleep she must keep the eyes shut, but she also thinks she
.must raise.the hand when '' willed'' to do so, and must take
.things when ofFered ; instinct,• therefore, teaches her to ·open
!he eyes a little, (which she continued to do during this ex-
periment,) to se& the object when offered, and to raise the
hand when willed without speaking, for, in willing the hand
to raise, the magnetizer generally thrusts out his own, which
• The lower ordtrofanim&lll, are known to wanifest i11Bfintt in an equal or more· ex·
traordlnary !Iegree. When I was a child, the family po""esa~d a dog, whose instinet and
aagacity furnished amusement and pastime to all,the children in the neighborhood: ~•i•
.name, Cash, was as singular as his sports; he W9" a great favorite, and he knew it ; he
was very small, and much petted by my sister, to whom ·he seemed more attached than
to any other in the family ; he would Jay down or sit up when told to do so; he would
eat the most indigestible things when told to eat it. I see him now in retrospection, as he
u•ed to sit eating whole grainsof corn, chips, and even cotton, which he would archly
roU in his .OOutn, and swallow at the bidding of the Lbildren. A word .....:s sufficient,
,~d" Cosh, tat tlu&t ;" "Ca~h, here i• aomt eo~;" "Cath, talte ,'om. corn," would
always cmumand obedience, and then he would look up for more, as much as to asy, I
like.that cake, or water-melon, with a face so seri9us, that the whole juvenile company
would be convulsed with laughter; he knew such things pleased the company, and be
.took delight in entertaining them; he knew cotton and chips were not natUJal food, bot
he also knew that his unnatural sport.i gained for·him the admiration of all the school
children in the vicinity. He would ~hut his eyes or open them at a word, and man;r a
t;me has wy sister laid him in the miniature bed of her baby·house, an•I after singing
ol· o by for a few minute~, would say to him, """"'• C~h, •""t your tyu, and K• /1>
deop.'' I would perhaps aay " Cash, 1 "'ould not sleep in that btd wthout curtaiM,"
but he would not p•y any attention to me, and presently my sister would say, "Cosh,
are you dreaming 1 Cash, open your eflto and ut me Btl if !fiN are aslup," he would
then open those cunning cyea, and look as serious as a deacoA, while my sister would
address him; "yes,-you are as/up now, Cash, ~hu( yowr '!I'"aKain, aftd don't hear tDMI
Char/ea ••11• to you," I woYid then clap·my hands, and call, " CCJBII, CMit, hero Ctuh,
eatclt the chictunB, Cash;" but he would lay as quiet as a mouoe, and not stir even the
eyelids, and if he eould talk, I know he would have said,·" no, I don't hear Charles nor
any body but you, little Miss." Such was his instinct, that he knew he must not hear
any one but my sister, and therefore he feiJDed sleep. But I detected the little rogue;
when l &Bid clriclunB, (he waa fond ofchaain( the e>hickenl,) for I could see his eara move,
and I know he found it difficult to keep his eyes ciOI'ed. Hundreds ofbiofeatsare retain·
ed in the recollections of the family, witb whom he Is frequently the sub)lct of remark
at the fire-aide conversations. I could write volumes on hi• intereatinK S'porta.-Poor
Cash, he is long aince dead, but his name and virtues will be ~~herished in memory, lone
after Animal MaJDetlsmwill be forgotten among the other deceptinns ofthe times.
Digitized by Goog[e
tl48
he ,holds over the· hand he ·" wills" to raise. She 'is ttetl
.told that the magnetizer can will a pencil to he a water-melon.
They now say .audibly, (for they think she pannot hear~)
·" see if I can .will this pencil to 'be a wateJ•melon,•• -she
·'knows she must not hear, and yet she cannot belp :littentf&g
::to such audible " will," and •therefore she .says it :js a
water-melon. They now say audibly-" See if I -can wiD
' this handkerchief to be a cat." Such audible "will» has
~already reached her brain, for she has her ears open, (though
..she thinks she lttust not hear.) The magnetizer honestly
thinks he must " will" very strong, ·because it is difficult to
··turn a handkerchief into 'a cat in his own brain, and therefore
:he commences rolling it up, lays it in one· hand, anli strokes
it.with the other hand: now taps.it on the artificial head, with
'his fingers, to make it lay still, precisely as if it was a cat,
and then places it into her hands, which she e~tends :(for the
eyes are a little open to catch the ,,, wills,-"') to ,receive it,
:and thinks she must do the same with it as if it ·was a -eat,
(this "will" came through the ears;) therefore, she says,
" poor Pius !" or " Oh ! take the ccit away-she'll scratch.
me !" They next try the experip1ent .silently, without saying
a word, by request of some incredulous person, who writes on
paper, ~' will it to be a cat"." · Not a word is spoken, but he
rolls it up, strokes it with his hand, taps it on the head with
his finger, {she now catches the "will" through the eyes
aione,) and she receives it, exclaiming-" what do yow gitle
me this cat for ? you knoto I doo't like cats. " So:much
for the theory of this case, and now for the facts by
actual experiment• A short •\ime .after Miss Eben thought
she was asleep, a younger br~er of Mr. Pottet, wi!h Mrs.
Potter, and Dr. Miller, of Providence, came into ttJE}ior;>m,.
Digitized by Goog[e
149
I told Mr. Potter audibly, "will the left band to raise," and
it raised accordingly. ·I said, ''can you will things written
on paper, Mr. P0tter ?" He answered,. " Oh yes, I can
'will' almost any thing. I often will a handkerchief to be a
cat or a bird, and will the hand to raise, or any thing of that
kind. You write something, Mr. Durant, and see if I can-
. not will it." I remarked, " I wish to try a peculiar experi-
ment to prove my theory," and wrote on paper, which I
gave to him, " will her to raise the right hand." " Do
you see \lhat I wrote?" "Yes," "well, I wish you to
keep•it well on _
your mind. Does she hear me ?" "No,
she could not hear a gun if fired by her ear. Do you hear
M~:. Durant, Ann Eliza ?" ".N'o, I don't, .Mr. Potter."
" Now, will the left hand tq. raise, you see .what I wrote ,
be sure you do it." He willed, and up came the left hand.
" How is that, Mr. Durant ? I tried to will what you wrote.
I don't understand that." " Oh, I will explain all that by
and by. It is a part of my theory. Let us try another."
And I gave him on paper "will her to raise the right hand."
" Are you certain she does not hear me ?" '' Oh yes.''
"Do you hear Mr. Durant, Ann Eliza?" ".No, .71'/r.
Potter ; I do not hear any body bttt you." I now said
audibly, " will the left eye to open; I have seen Mr. An-
dros do· that often. It is a beautiful experiment. Be sure
you do what you have on the paper." He " willed" away,
and open came the left eye. " Well, that is strange," said
Mr. Pott~, "I tried to do what you wrote. I don't under-
stand that.'' '' I dare say, but that is part of my theory, and
I can make it very plain to you, when I explain it. I tried
many such with Mr. and Mrs. Andros, and they are now,
you know, firm believers in my theory. Here is another I
Digitized by Goog[e
150
wish to try." "Oh, certainly; this is so new to me that
I iun much pleased with it." I now wrote on paper which
I gave him, " will this to be a water-melon." " Look well
at what I have written. 'Do you understand it ?" " Yes,
I have done that often.~· " You are certain that she don't
h.ear me ?" " Oh, she don't hear a word you say.. Do
you hear Mr. Durant's voice, Ann Eliza." " .;Yo, Mr.
Potter." I now said audibly, "will that pencil to be red
hot iron, and see if we can't burn her. Mind you Jo what
I wrote on the paper." He commenced holtling the p~~cil
in both hands, as if it was a heavy water-melon, to impress
it firmly upon his mind ; he then put it in her extended
Jmnds. She drew her hands suddenly back, exclaiming,
'' Oh! Oh! Oh! take it away!'' '' Why, what is the
matter?" " Why, you're burning me to death.'' " Well,
Mr. Durant," said Mr. Potter, ''that is the most curious
thing that I ever saw. I tried my best to have her clo what
you wrote on the paper. 'Ve never tried such experiments
before. How do you account for them ?" " Oh, it is the
effect of the mind. It will be all very plain when you un-
derstand my theory. Let us try another." " 0 h, cert(linly,
I want you to go on with them ; they are so cut·ious." I
now gave him on paper, " will the left eye open after ten
minutes, but not before then." " Ask her if she hears me ?"
"Do you hear Mr. Durant, Ann Eliza?" H No, I hear
only you, .M'I'. Potter." I now said audibly., "will her to
open both eyes in half a minute. Now keep your mind on it
and be sure you make her do what is on the paper; I
then took out my watch and commenced talking thus ; '' I
.know we can wake her up in half a minute, for I have seen
Mr. Andros do it frequently, I know you will succeed ; I
Digitized by Goog[e
151
can see the eyes move t~.lready; there, there they come,
there, there, there she is w.jde ,awake ;, and so she was, gen-
de reader, with both eyes wide ~pen, and gli~tening like two
peeled onions, in about twenty $econds from the time ofco.m..
'mencing the operation. " Well.," said Mr. Potter, " that
beats me all out ; we never tri·ed .such experiments before in
Providence, and I don't see how .it is done; I tried my best
.to keep her asleep ; I should .like fOU would explain that, it
.must be yo~r talking, that confused .my ll)ind, and prevents
what I was trying to do from the paper." '"Yes, you have
the idea exactly, Mr. Potter, it is the effeQt ofthe mind, ana
when I get time to explain to you all my theory, you will see
:how easily it ca~ .:be understood ; it would require some
-},hours to tell over t\le whole of it, ·hut some time I will ex..
plain it in full. •
All parties seemed quite satisfied and delighted with my
theory; .Mr. Potter, in particular, expressed himself much
delighted, that I had visited Providence,. as my very singular
experiments and theory, pro~ised to be of much service to
Animal Magnetism, by explaining satisfactorily to all, what
l1ad thus far, confounded the most scientific men in the nation.
Dr. Miller accompanied me to my lodgings, where we
spent some time in philosophising on phenomena, and the
magnetic scie[)ce in particular~ I used various means to have
•him express his opi~ion· of Animal Magnetism, and was more
.particularly amcious to know his sentiments, from having been
told by a professor, that Dr. Miller was a believer. The
,good sense ~tnd intelligence manifested jn his conversation,
.and 'he soundness of his sentiments on other things, induced
,me t9 suppose the professors had been mistaken as to his reai
'I trust tbe reader·.M,a tbe i~in/..U. ~Nlll• tl~e.
Digitized by Goog[e
..
152
belief of the doctrine;_
and though be made no direct acknow-
ledgement to me, yet I w~ ·satisfied from his remarks that
he was not a firm believer, bui prepared and desirous to re~
ceive evidence, both for aud against the .science. I asked
him ifhe saw any evidence ,of Mi:;s Ebcin's being asleep; he
acknowledged he had not. Did you see ,any evidence that
she was awake ? he evade~ a reply. Did she do any·thing
in your presence that per~ns awake could not dQ ·? "No,
I think a person· awake mi_ght do all that she did." · This
was enough to inform me of Dr. Miller's real sentiments, which
I_ presume he does not disclose openly, because his patients
and neighbors are believers, and he prefers quiet ,enjoyment
of practice and opinion, to an .open and ho_stile argument on
this most strange infatuation. Without di~closing my plans
to Dr. Miller, I allowed him to infer from 1he conversation~
that my theory bad more meaning than letters in its composi·.
tion an~ .J desired he would be ~ith me as much as possible, to
take act.u.al notice ofwhat occ~red dl\fing my experi.ment$
iB A.ni.m.~l Magnetism at Providence•
•
CHAPTER XVII.
FOURTEENTH EXPERIMl:NT IN ANIMAL HAGNETISM7
AT PROVIDENCE.
Professor Cleaveland's somnambulist at Pautuxet-Mrs.
.!lndros thought it was the paper box- Thought he sat
there-It looks strange- White house !-.N'ine gentlemen-
Remarkably correct-Key to Col. Stone's picture history.
From the time of my arrival in Providence, a: stir began
to be made among the professors; some were anxious to of·
. fer me facilities for proving my theory, though some seemed
lukewarm, and one endeavored to prevent my having access
to any somnambulist. On the morning of the 4th Sept., I
was met at my lodgings by four celebrated professors, viz. :
Professors A. Potter, C. Potter, Rev. Daniel Green, an<l
Andros ; all except Green,·had used every endeavor to pro·
cure subjects for me, and had particularly interested them-
selves to have me see .Miss Bracket, and Miss Parker, but
as yet, without success ; they had made arrangelllfnts for
me to visit professor Cleaveland, M. D. at Pautuxet; to
which place, Mr. C. Potter, politely escorted me, in his
chaise. Mr. Cleaveland was absent from the villal!;e ; we as-
certained the name of his somnambulist, on whom we called,
and spent half an hour, or more, in conversation. She was
in bed, in very feeble health, and more feeble mind ; she dis·
couraged us, by saying, if Dr. Cleaveland was at home, he
would not put her asleep then, because she was so ill. In
vain I praised, and proved the benefit of magnetic sleep, and
hinted that Mr. Potter would be able to magnetize; and re·
lieve her ; she would not consent to it ; her mother, the ma-
Digitized by Goog[e
154
tron of the house, kept things so tidy and clean, that I felt
somewh'at astonished that she should not ha~e kept the mind
of her daughter more clean and free from the pollutions of
deception :and Cleaveland, Doctor Cleaveland, a practition-
er of me.dicine, holding lives at the mercy of his drugs,
what shall I say of his strange infatuation, filling the mind of
that weak al.ld simple girl wi_
th deceit, at a most critical time,
when her eternal welfare requires a clean and unspotted mind,
to hold converse with her God ; but I will stifle the sigh in
my breast, to spare humanity the pangs, and sympathy the
tears, which a description of such scenes must produce.
·we returned to the residence of Dr. Cleaveland, and finding
no certainty of his speedy return, we left our cards, and.re-
turned to Pro\'idence.
In the afternoon, (Mr. A. having been unable to procure
more subjects,) I accepted an invitation from Mr. Dyer,
to accompany him in the carriage, to his cocoonery and nm- ,
sery garden, a few miles from town, and returned in time to
see an experiment with Mrs. Andros, in the evening.
The experiment, this evening, I think was given at there-
quest of Mr. Hart~horn, to gratify some friends from·Boston
and Philadelphia. There were present in the commence-
ment, Gen. Frothingham, of Boston, John Hartshorn, of
Boston, Mr. Cowperthwait,* of Philadelphia, Dr. Harts-
horn, Dr. Brownell, Dr. Mille,r, anlMr. Andros, of Provi-
dence, another gentleman, whose name I forget, and myself,
in all nine gentlemen. The reader recollects that Mrs. An-
dros, as I before re~arked, succeeds with her deception,
only by seeing under the handkerchief, (this was not known
to the company,) things held at the epigastrium, and by
• I am doubtful aa to the ortboaraphy of this name; ifwrona, those who were J>reoenl
"n· correct .me.
Digitized oy Goog[e
155
guessing in what is ·called clairvoyance; and now for the re-
sult of thi:s experiment. Mr. A. magnetized her as .usual;
she complains of light and is· blindfolded. I requested pro-
fessor Brownell, M; D., might be·pu·t in magnetic commu-
nication. Dr. Brownell's patient sees things behind, and
therefore he very honestly (for he is sincere) held ·an apple
behind Mrs. ·Andros, and asked her to tell the name of it, she
answered, "it is apencil case. "to Dr. Brownell says, ''look
again, and take time," at the same time be put it in front of
her, b~t kept his hands on the top of it, unintentional on his
part, and so near' thaf the apple barely touched her h~nd an
instant, and she answered " it ii a bo.ok. "t ·several remarks
were now made by Dr. Brownell and Mr. Andros, about
her not being perfectly magnetized,·and Mr. Andros magne·
tized her a little · more.· One of the gentlemen asked how
they knew when ·she was magnetized enough. Dr. Brow•
nell answeted, "when they tell correctly. ".f: Mr. Androc;
asked, " do you feel well magnetized·, Amelia ?" " Yes.' '
The apple had continued to lay on the Franklin stove behind
her. Mr. A. took it in liis hand {still behind her) and asked
'' what have I got in my band, Amelia ?;, ~he answered, '' It
is long, it looks' like paper, it is a paper bo3;."§ He looked'
a little disconcerted, and said, "you are mistaken." She an-
swered,· " 1 thought it was the· paper bo:r on< the · ?~itmtle."
• They·frequently guess pencil ease; and the reader muit know that every gentleman'
caniea such a thing, a11d is li4ely'to hdd It in such cases.
tAn apple would fee~·.'when touching for a moment the back ofthe hand', !lie a book':·
1
·~new by the position;\bat ohe cduld not see, nnill arilicipisted her reply.
!Such answers I have'"reeeived from all' the magnetizers, except Mr. Pottrr, whose·
an-er on thil't question, I coul<l neter eompreh!'nd. .
\ iltrange as it may appear to the reader, I also anticipated thio reJIIy. I wu eo much
aee111tomed to..aee Mr. A. take the ne«test thing at liand, th&t I knew she would 1111Pf><U<
he held tlie loll! cylindrical paper boX, then on the msntle near hi:d:" and tbe·oill7 thlni:
ofl'tlle'·mai!Gt1probably placed tl!:ete 'b:r her fot'lhat Purt>oe•· ·
•
Digitized by Goog[e •
·.
1-66
D~. Brown~!· askeditier, "'bGW many persons are there in
·the room?''' "nine;" ''are you certain?''.. "•Yes."
~ Did you count yourself?" " Yes." " Weli, that would
make. ten.". " No, there''is only nine with myself.;; " LQo)\:•
again, and, be very certain." '' J; mean there is nine·
GEXTLEME.Nin the''room.''«<
Mr. Andros, after my lecture to him in JerS'ey City,·dare
not now give her any thing in the hand to hold to the epi-·
gastrium, whe~e she can see·under the blindfold,· and which .
\Veuld now, by reading a bank note, have compensated in
the mintis of all- for the previous failures. _
Mr. Cowper-
thwaite was now put in magntltic communication, and she ·
went with him, · (by Sying in spirit,) to his country h~e
near Philadelphia. She describea the premises thus-'' It ·
is a white house-something greenish around the door."
After some_ .silence, " ·do you see any thing over the door ?"
" I can't see very toell-then appears to be something over
the door'~' " do .you see any thing·that looks like a pi~zza
over the door." " lsee somefhing over the door;-it don't
{ook ·much like a piazza-/ can't siJe very well-it looks
like something there.,; .Here a multiplicity ofleading ques-
tions and corre~ponding answers followed.· It would be a '
waste of titne to write or re~d them.· Suffice 'it-to say, the
• This was a trap, (though unlotentlonal on the part M Brownell,) andI saw thP result
llkely to ensue, when be asked tfie question "liow many per•on. are the1e in the rOo•a."
They aro often asked Mw mony gentlemen arc there inLui·room, and therefore they
tiike a good look and impresa it otrongly oil tile·mind: before they sh';'l the eyes; ttiey
arealso often'aS'ked the lime, and therelore-they look,atthe clock, and imprei.o that on lt•e
mind ; they are also obliged to keep the situation'of things In the room, and elsewhe,..,
oo the mind, and when askedtiow many pel'komare tllere1a the room, theyfor.!el in'!be
multiplicity ofth(ngs,10 remember tMm•elTJes. Sb with 1\lrS.·A. In this case, ehe wao.oo·
anl<ious to giVe """correct reply, that she epoke before ih&could distinguish between •.
peroon• and gmtltme!CI·Bilct she•tiU'felt 10 .ure that she·didililt recollect betiiel~ even ·'·
after the seco11d and'third interrogatories, but diticovered hel"error after the wdrd "cer-.·
tain1" ut<Hhen."tpllt't.'hNJI wltba.cro'lt'ba\".· ·
o;9,tizedbyGoogle
157
. .
answers we"re all characteristic.of the following;-" There i,:
a door on that side-I think there is a carpet on the floor-,.'
something dark, looks like a gla18 between the windows-
ther• is a piece offurniture on that aide, looks da":k-1 can't
distinguish tohnt 'it ia_;_there are some chairs on that side-
two ladies in the room-they look middle-aged-appear to
be dressed in dark-something dark looks like a picture on
that side-there is ltoo lf!mps." " Do you see any thing
peculiar in that lamp !" " Yes, it looks different frow, other
lamps, but I cannot describe it." " Look well at it, I want
you to describe it for me ?" " It looks very curious; it
looks long; there is something on that part of it, but I can't
describe it ; I never saw sue~ a lamp." During the experi-
ment, three more gentlemen came in, viz. : Dr. Sumner,
late of Boston ; Charles Rhodes, of Philadelphia; and Nel-
son Slater, of Providence. Several changes of seats took
place, and she was asked, "in what part of the room does
Mr. Durant sit?" She answered ''there," pointing with
her finger towards the piano immediately in front of qer.
Mr. A. said, "no ; you are mistaken, Amelia." ~' I
thought he sat there," was her reply ; and she never spoke
more truly, for she thought I sat there, because I was seated
there before she was blindfolded. But I took a'dl'antage of
the entrance of tfw three last named gentlemen, and shifted
to a seat at the window on her left, and at a right angle from
the line she pointed out. General Frothingham, of Boston,
was next in magnetic communication. She flew with him to
Boston, described. his house and furniture, '' carpet on th.t
floor-glass between 'the windows-chairs in the room~
something looks like a table in the middle of the room-ttoo
lamps on the mantle-some kettles in the kitchen-something
Digitized by Goog[e
1~8
j.ark there, loolu lille ~ 1rt11e to bum coal." " What do
,. you see there at that side of you?" ".l.lt tl&e righllt_,.. 'l"
" Yes ; don't you see something there ?" " Yu, I aee
something there." " WeJl, what does it look like ? it is
something you know very well?" "It loolu long." "Yes,
it is long, but what is the name of it ?" " It looks dark
colored." "Yes, can't you tell me what it is ?" ".It
looks like a pump." " Yes, it is a pump ! ! !" In a simi-
lar way she told two images in a_ niche of the wall on the
stairway, though not until asked by leading questions for
nearly half an hour, and then she said, " they are dark co-
lored," " they look like bronze," whereas, they were
WHITE ! But, reader, will you believe the fact, even this
great difference of color was satisfactory to Gerieral Froth-
ingham, and almo,t all present, because there was a gauze
veil over them " which would make them appear dark ! ! !"
She. did not even notice any thing there until asked four
times to come back to that part of the stairs, and " look in
the wall, and see if you do not see something strange
there ! ! !" The minutire of all these questions and answers
would tire your patience, and be a sinful waste of tirne. I
have given you enough at least to show how any person could
describe all which Miss Brackett described for Colonel
Stone, not excepdng the pictures in his drawer. On re- tr.
tiring from this experiment, most of the gentlemen thought
the answers were tolerably correct. I asked Mr. Cbwper-
thwaite if he saw any evidence of her being asleep. He
answered, "all the answers except two were very indefinite,
and some of them I think are not corre.-:t ;. but the lamp and
color of the house '"ere remm1wbly correct. The lamp is
cuyious, and different from any I ever saw, and my hou~e i:o: .
K
oig•tized by Google
. 159
whtte,• when moM houses in that :place are red. I think •
person awake WQald have guessed a red house ! ! !"
I have· omitted to describe many cases similar to the'
above, and indeed I have omitted a description af whole
•
experiments at my house, and selected those whieh were
witnessed by the greatest number of well known persons,
\..bo, from being believers, may not have noticed the facts-
as I did, but who now, I trust, will recall the incidents to
their minds, and bear witness to the truth of my descy.iptions.
I could have convinced all present of the deception, but r
feared to do any thing which might excite suspicion in the
mind of Dr. Brownell, who had promised to show me an.
experimertt with his subject (Miss Parker) on the following.
day.
CHAPTER XVIII.
FlFTE~~NTH EXPERIMENT IN ANIMA-L MA'GNETISM'
AT PROVIDENCE •
•Miss Lorania Braekett-her true portrait-can distinguish'
objects very toell-hears a newspaper-hears a knife-
sees much, but can't tell-sus a noise !-shifts the cotton
-yes, I see it-don't want to tell-can read a letter-~t
her read this.
IN the morning of the 5th, I saw Mr•. John C ..Harts·
. horn~e .authm· of the translation of "Deleuze's Practical
Instructions."· I bad some conversation with him respecting
my theory, a part of which I expfained· to him. He seemed
• The somnambulists In deserlbinl[ 1housea in uuatry towne,. iinariabl)' aay," it;.
tJ>Iiile,"ILild ifa per•on awake ohould II)' "it iB tJ>hito," I ehould not think it 1>ery rood
&ueasing, for the Itouses in moat towns aro uhite. I have noticed, i'n aeoeral iniiWlcea,
lile pnaonauklogthe queatlone, I&)', . "no,-.y~u ue. WOJII.,III)'.IIeuae.le -net~;"
11 tliett·I"""' be at Ilie tor""" h...,e ! ! ! !' '
Digitized by Goog[e
l6Q
UIUch pleased with all parts of it, except disputing clair..-
voyance, and he cited a number of cases, which I explained
according to my theory. He tbe,n cj~d a circumstance that
proved.Miss Brackett must posse15s clairvoyance. It was
telling the contents of a gun barrel, arranged by himself, and
placed in the corner of his room. He also cited the read-
ing of Colonel Stone's letter, also Mr. Covill's letter..
" And besides," he continued, "Miss Brackett is perfectly.
blind when awake.",. I told him I could not account for
things !;lone out of my presence in any other way than to sup-
pose some unobserved and unintentional circumstance had
prevented a fair and correct experiment ; and I remarked,
• •
" Mr. Andros (he was then present) will tell you that he
is now per~c~ly convinced cf the truth of my theory, and·
satisfied they cannot see in magnetio sleep. He will also tell·
you that in all the experiments with his lady, she failed to teM
any thing which the one in magnetic communication did not;
know'." Dr. Capron had promised to obtain for me, if pos-
sible, an e~periment with Miss Brackett that morning, at ten-
o'clock, and my principal object in this conversation was to-
induce Mr. Hartshorn* to interest himself in ensuring me an:
interview ·with her, and to excite his wonder so much as tO''
induce him to he present, to use him as a witness here after, as·
Capron rather objected to have me bring any person with me.
Mr. Hartshorn, I knew, had more influence than any other·
person with all the somnambulists, and I judged he c~d be·
•The eharacter and stan<ljng of Mr. Hartshorn, are too well known to require·any des.·
ulption from me. He Ia a professor ofJancuages, and teacher ofa aehool·; horlaofun·
doubted veracity, and possesses liD unblemlebed reputation for probity and honor; he.
1e, bealdes, aa =!able man, and stando eminent in oil the IOclal relatlona ofllfe, but from'
belac perfeeUylineere and honell blmeelf, be thlnlra all otllera are also l1oneot,·and bl&'
Cf'fdulily bu alluwed the deception• ofAnlmal1flanetii1D to lnad blm utrar.
11:2''
Digitized by Goog[e
J61
present if he chose to do so. He promised to be preseut, if
possible, and was sure he could convince me of my error.
He was, however, so tnucb pleased witb my theory, that he
requested me to write an article on the subject· for the
second number of his translation of" Deleuze."
I called at tel) o'clock, (tbe hour of appointment,) at the
neuse of Mr. Jesse Metcalf, where I met professor Capron
and Miss Brackett; Mr. Hartshorn arrived a few minutes
after, and before Miss B. was put to sleep. I had'a previ-
ous interview with Dr. Capron, her magnetizer, and was
soon satisfied from his open and candid conversation, that he
was above even suspicion of deception ; he is a Rractitioner
of medicine, and enjoys an unblemished reputation for ve-
racity and honor ; he could not belitve my theory, because
he is a firm believer in Animal Magnetism, and thought she
u\ed no deception in perfonning her wonderful feats of read-
ing and seeing things encase~, and at a distance. Miss Brack-
ett is represented as a lovety and accomplished girl, possess-
ing piety, modesty, veracity and intelligence, equal or supe-
rior to the average of her sex. She is also represented as
blind beyond the possibility of doubt. Mr. Hopkins, and
Mr. Metcalf, with whom she has resided, say they know her
to be blind ; hundreds represent her as perfectly blind. On
disputing clairvoyance with the disciples of Animal Magnet-
ism, t1Afy always cite Miss Brackett's case, to show that I
must~ in error; they say, "she is perfectly blind, and yet
reads distinctly all things presented to her." "She is stone
blind, and has been for years, and yet in her magnet~c sleep,
she goes in the garden and names the c,olour of the flowers,.
with 1vhich she seems transported." " She is totally blind7
and yet in magnetic sleep she goes to the store and seleciJS
Digitized by Goog[e
16.1
calicoes, and names the various ,colors, pays money, and re·
ceives change, as correctly as a person with eyesight and
awake could do."
The following is from Translations of Deleuze, and forms
a very small part of the marvellous things related of her.
"Mr. Jesse ~letcalf says he has known Miss B. About two months. She
baa resided in his family at ditlerent times about Jour weeks. Was not ac-
quaoraterl with her when she first come to Providence. Could not understand
her ver)' well at first, because her votce was very fecl>lc; abe did not speak ex-
e<•pt in low whispers. Health quite deiicate. Appetite poor. Her eyes ap-
peared to be qutte·intl.amed; it was neces~ary to keep the blinds of the room
almost always dosed ; -Bnd the lamp where it could not shine so as to pain
her eye•. While at hts house, she has generally been magnetized every day.
She would sometimes remain in the magneti:wd stnte ttm or twdve hour~, dn·
ring which she would wa.IL about the house as well as any other pereon; but
when ~be was awake, ahe would have to grope about, and feel her way. In
the n.a~netized ~tate, she enjoys visions, looking at objects with great pleasure,
espectally pic•ure&, portraits, &c. Thts makes her delight in being in that
•tate. She de!ICI'ibes suet. thing!! very accurately.
Mr. Metcalfsays that her general health and her appetite ore very much im-
proved. Wherr in the somm~mbulic Ftate, she walks along the streets with
perfect ease, and hears any person she is directed to, very well. She has been
to meeting three times with his family in that state, and could remember some
puts of the discourset~, having heard them very well.
When Dr. Capron leaves her in the magnc,tic state, he first tells her to an-
swer and converse with nil his family, or with some members of it.. She can-
not then talk with ahy but these person~; nor can she hear any thing address-
ed to her by any one else. She cannot, when in that state, bear the conversa-
tion tiJtWJen any tw > tndividual~.
She can only see their lips move, and wonders they do not talk. She can·
not even bear the peraon with whom ~he converses, when he talks with any
body ele~. She hears him only when he addresses her.
· 1\Iiss B. is intelligent, has received a good education, and ia cheerful and
pleasant.
When in the magnetized etate, she can tell immediately in what part of the
house every member of tlte family is, without movi11gor turning from her seat.
Mr. M. hu elevenlirt the family, including Miss B., who is now staying with
him. .
Miss H. says the walls of the house, as do all other wall~, !ppear to he
transparent. She ean see through them, and yet ehe can see them, and de.
-acribe what kind of paper, or paint, ie on them. '
Miss B. is of pleasmg manners, and i1 an invited guest in his hotl8e, where
~he has interested all ol the family. ·
Mr.Metcalf permits .me to publish this statement, which be made at my
;reque&t."
Such descriptions of Mias Brackett, I received from a
large number of persons, RMmy of whom had seen and were
evell intimately acquainted' with her. Reader, imagineo.me
now in the presence• of that extraordinary person, whom I
Digitized by Goog[e
163
had called to see with the e:rpremd object of establishing
my theory, which disputed clairvoyance, though advocating
all other parts of the science ; but with the secret design to
-unravel the mysteries and expose her deception. You must
imagine i had a difficult task to be accomplished in one ex-
periment of an hour or two in duration ; but it was·more ef-.
fectually accomplished than it was difficult to perform ; and
before I give a description of the process, I will paint her
true portrait, a part of whichJ had previously c'onceived, and
the remainder I added before I had finished the experiment.
.J Miss Loraina Brackett is a native of Dudley, Mass. ; about
T' twenty-five years of age, good figure, high forehead, intel-
lectual face, comely and interesting in her appe11rance when
conversing seriously on any common topics ; but in her light
and familiar conversation she is insipid, immodest, vulgar
and disgusting ; she \Vas poor, and worked in a cotton facto-
ry ;* her poverty was no disgrace. I have myself experi-
enced poverty, and feel a conscious pridP., when in retrospec-
tion I look on that inheritance. She met with an accident
in the factory ; a heavy piece of iron fell on her headand
disabled her from work~ She found friends to sympatt1ize
with her, and administer to her ·necessities .; she recovered; .
but was indolent, and preferred idleness to work ; the only
way to accomplish her desires, was to feign disability t()
labor. She was deceitful, and feigned blind. · She possess-
-ed what many drunkards possess, the art of vomiting the 'con-
tents of her stomach, and she practised both these·unpardon-
able deceptions to obtain the continued sympathy of friends.
She was about to be S6nt to Boston, to receive the benefit of
proiessional aid from a scientific institution for diseases of
.• I buethis fact frem a profeuor of tbo macnetlc science.
tlie ey~ ; on the way* she met Dr. Caprou, a deluded en-
thusiast in the magnetic doctrine ; he honestly supposed he
could cure her, and succeeded, as he supposed, to put her •
in magnetic sleep. She readily deceived him, bec~use ~he
feared in a scientific institution, they might dete'ct her pretend-
ed blindness, and in Animal l'vlagnetisrn she could proloog
her deception ; but how long she will succeed, I leave the
reader to judge, after reading the following narration ; which,
(i~ she ever reads while in magnetic sleep,) I warrant will
cure both her blindness and somnambulism.
There were also present, five or six ladies belonging to
the house, and one lady with ,1er hat on, who I supposed
was a neighboring visitor. Immediately after the introduc-
tion, I commenced conversation with Miss Brackett, and
w.hile conversing with her, Mr. Hartshorn came, and stepped
w.ith Dr. Capron to the window, to arrange, (I believe,)
.a private experiment if,l the evening, to gratify some·gentle-
men from Boston. I told Miss Brackett that my theory would
reconcile alJ the mysteries to the known laws of nature, and
prove that 'vhat was called clairvoyance, was the knowledge X
carried by the magnetic cords to the somnambulist from the' .
1uagnetizer. I expatiated in glowing terms, on.the beauties
of the science, and of its infinite use in curing diseases. I
told her that I knew of many extraordinary cures performed
by Mr. Andros, and that my theory would so explain Animal
l'vlllgnetism, that a child, hereafter, would be able to cure, by
this science, the most obstinate cases of disease. She.lis-
tened with seeming interest, and said I would be mistaken as
respects .clairvoyance,. but fully coincided with me in its uses
for the cure of disease, and she remarked, " there is a great
' I ba•e tbidaet from Dr. Capron'slet/.Ot to Hartshorn. "Tranaladon of Delew:e, 11
~pell11x, paci!JO.
Digitized by Godgle
165 •
many persons hMe been cured by it, and my 1ight is110 faT
ruovered brJ it, that I can now diBiinguish objects tJery well,
<and I toas perfectly blind tohen Dr. Capron first magnetized
me,,and my health is a great dtal better ia other re1pects
too." I told her I was glad to hear she llad received so
much benefit so soon, and I doubted not in a few mouths
more, her sight would be perfectly restored ; and, perhaps,
even better than it had ever been before. Such conversation
continued a few minutes, when Mr. Hartshorn left the room.
I believe, to acquaint his friends of the evening arrangement,
and promised to return shortly, which he did. Dr. Capron
•
now took his seat beside her, and I said to him, " I thought
you told me she was blind." " Well, she is, sir, perfectly
blind." " Why, she told me she sees objects very wen ;"
here she remarked, " I mean I can see tohen objects are be-
tween me and the toindow." " Oh ! yes,,. said Dr. Capron,
u she can discern lhe faint outline of objects, when held to
a strong light, but she was totally blind when I commenced'
magnetizing her, and her health in other respects is also much
improved ; she could scarcely artkulate a word when she
iame under my charge, but now her voice is strong and ar-
ticulation clear ; one of the young ladies who sat braiding
straw, then rema~ked, "Oh ! she can't see a bit, I kno\v
she can't; but when she is magnetized, she sees the pictures,
and goes all over the house." I then turned the conversa-
tion on the great benefits to be derived from the science, add
Dr. .Capron commenced the manipulations of magnetizing,
pressing the hands on the forehead, and drawing them down
frequently to the feet, but not always touching her ; whea he
had worked three M four minutes, she commettced heaving
t1lle stomach as if about tel vomit; Dr~ CaprOil said, '"d.o.
Digitized by Goog[e
166
you ft)el a naus~a ; you should have taken some allspice ;"
"I did take some allspice ~fore I sat down.'' Dr. Capron,
addressing both Miss B. and myself, remarked," I will quiet
your stomach in a few minutes, Loraina ; I can by the men-
tal will, make her completely sea sick ; I willed her so sic!~
at one time, that she vomited in a lady's lap." I now mo-
ved a little off, for by what I had already witnessed, I con-
cluded by her continued straining of the stomach, she intend-
ed to vomit on me, as a compliment for the improvement in
her sight,. which s.he h.ad so suddenly acquired by my theory.
In about ten minutes he pronounceri her in magnetic sleep.
he continued talking, and she answering, the same as when
awake ; he put some. raw cotton betwt'en her eyes and
glasse:s, for you must know she wears green spectacles. r
was desirous to catch her as I had done Miss. Ebon, and
requested Dr. Capron to" will" the hand to raise, but after
trying two or three minutes he gave it 'up. She held the
finger of the right hand with the thumb and finger of the ·
left, as if the right was drawn by his will and she could
only prevent it by holding with the other hand. She would
frequently lean the whole body forwdrd, as if attracted by his
,, will,"but. he could not will her to raise the hand, and of
·cours·e I ~ould not try n~y theory on that feat. Ghe kept
continually picking, with both hands, at the cotton, and I re-
quested Dr. Capron to take it out, as I said she must be
anboyed with the heat which it occasioned ; after one or two
minutes he took it from one eye, when she snatched it from
his hands. and put it back again, and complained of strange~s
being in the room, and s~id she would go out. Dr. Capron
remarked, ''she likes to travel, suppose you send her to-
your house awl let her describe the premis~." I declioed,.
Digitized by Goog[e
167
by saying l had seen enough of such experiments with·Mrs• .
Andros, and nothing definite could be ascertained by that to
test my theory. I thought if she could see at all she ought
to see things in the room. I asked if she could hear me.
'~ Oh, no ; she could not hear a park of artillery discharged
to her ears, nor could she feel the dismemberment of a limb ;
she can only hear those I will her to hear. I took up a
newspaper, whiclday on the chair before her, and said, au-
dibly, ask her if she can see this newspaper, at the same time
I held it at the left tem1 •le, where she i~ represented to see
best. He asked her, " Loraina, what does Mr. Durant hold
in his hand ?" " rm a great mind not to tell you note, you
are always asking me sich foolish questions, you knoto a8
well as I do-:-it is a netcspaper." Dr. Capron gravely said,
"she always makes such remarks, for she thinks every one
sees the objects, aod she wonders that we ask her about it."
Here that little sharp girl, who was braiding straw, said,
•' yes, she always thinks we can see as well as she does,
and sometimes she won't tell us at all, because she says \Ve
know as well as she does." I now held a knife to her tem-
ple, and said, audibly, ask her. to tell what I have in my
hand, and see if she can see this knife ; he put the question,
and she replied : "tohat do you ask me that foolish question
for, you know as toell as I d,o it is a knife." I said, those
two answers, you see, were according to my theory, doctor,
you knew what I had, and your knowledge was conveyed to
her by thfl magnetic nerves ;* but now ·I will try something
which you have no knowledge of, and see if she can tell what
at1s. Ask her what I hold in my hand, (it was a flower.)
4''Loraina, what does Mr. Dunnt hold in his hand ?'' ,., Yos
• Ear~ are ver7 cloirt>oyaftt In lllC:h c:asel•.
Digitized by Goog[e
168
knoto as well as I do, tohat do you ask me for'!" ''No, I do
not know, Loraina, and I want you to tell me ; do you see
it ?" " Yes, I see it, but I don't want to tell what it is, you
are always asking me such foolish questions." "No, that
is not foolish, do tell me whqt it is ?" She turned her head
in various ways, and said, ''No, /don't ~ant to tell; I see
it, but I don't 1oant to tell." One of the ;roung ladies re·
marked, '' She can tell you, she sees it; and I know she
can tell you." . I said ''no, ladies, she does not know any
more about it than yo\.1 do, and depend upon it she cannot
tell. " Then I must be a liar," said Dr. Capron, "and hun-
dreds ot~er gentlemen must be liars, who know she has told
things hundreds of mile:> off." "Oh, doctor, I only meant
she could not tell according to my theory; you misconstrue my
words; I mean, acc.onling to my theory, she does not possess
clairvoyance, but if she will tell, in my presence, one single
thing which you do not know, why then I will acknowledge
that my theory is wrong." He continued asking her what I
had in my hand, and she continued giving similar answers to
the foregoing for nearly half an hour, when I clapped my
hands near her ear, she started suddenly, and jerked her f...
head eight or ten inches. All looked amazed. I said, " how
do you account for that, doctor ?" He replied, "fthink she
sees, and in fact I know they see in that state all that is going
on in the room, and she has probably thought you were going
to strike her." She then said ''that gentlemnn wanted to
.&trike· me; I don't see what he wanted to strike me for.,.
Oh I see the cause now, I remarked, I did not recollect that
.according to IPY theory they must see all that you see ;* r
• The reade~ llll!&~.lnlow abe W1lll wide awako, and aeqqil'l!.li her knowled&e b7 u ..
-· from mr wordl.
Digitized by Goog[e
169'
stepped behind her and openetl my knife, which I raised and
made a thrust at her head. I could see most of the ladie:i
shudder, but Miss Loraina did not move a muscle. "How
do you account for that, doctor ; abe does,not move,.when I
thrust a knife at her head ?" '' Why, they don't always no·
tiee things ; 1 have observed frequently that they pay no
attention to some thjngs." I now clapped my hands again,
and she started more than before ; the lady with a bonnet on
remarked, "why she started as much as a person would do
if awake." Miss Brackett remarked, "that gentleman i1
all the time wanting to strike me, I don't see tohat he 'toan tSt
to strike me for; I won't stay here note, I will go out :"
and in a few minutes she left the room. Mr. Hartshorn now
came in, and in a few minutes one of the young ladits said,
'' Loraina says she will come in when you want her." · She
was called in, and took her seat in the rocking chair. Much
was said about her preferring to travel, and describe the fur·
niture, which I declined, because nothing definite could be
derived from it ; the flower was' tried again, but she would
not (could not) tell. .Mr. Hartshorn requested me to go
out and enclose it in a handkerchief. I did so, and enclosed
the whole in paper. Mr. Hartshorn was now in magneti e
communication ; he put it in her hands, and asked her if she
saw it, and asked her to describe it. She turned it over and
over, felt and squeezed i·t, but continued to say '' Yes, I 6te,
but I don't want to tell, you knoto as toell as I tlo.P Another
half hour passed in this way ; she preferred describing furni-
ture at a distance. "Well," said Mr. llartshorn, " we will
fiy otT, shall we go to Mr. Durant's; in New Jersey, he has
a beautiful garden, you like flowers, ·shall we go and see
bia garden." " Ye1, lluJtJe been to ~ Jersey,..arull11ilf.
Digitized by Goog[e
170
go to Mr. Taylor's, at N4!wark." "Well, you have been
to see Mr. Taylor, let us fly to his house in Newark, do you
see· the house ?" " Yes, I am there,11 and she described the
house, when Mr. Hartshorn put my envelope in her hand,
saying, " Oh, here is something I picked up on the ftoor,
tell me what it is ?11 She .eaid, "No, we ar4! out of doors
now on the ground, you want to cheat me, and !won't tell
you for that." He conducted her into .the house, and gave
it into her hands again, saying " here is something I picked
up on the floor, tell me what it is ?" She turned it over in
her hands, and said " that is the bundle I 1aw in Prof7idence,
some time ago, and a gentleman wanted me to.tell him what
it was, but I said !would not, and now you toant to chaet me
but I won't tell, because I said !would not." Mr. Hartshorn
· requested me to Jlrrange something else. I enclosed the leaf'
of a tree in stout cartridge paper, and gave it to him. She
was describing the furniture, such as" a carpet on the floor,
a piece of furniture on that side, chairs in the ..-oom, some-
thing looks like a glass between the windows, &c.,11 the old
story over, when he placed the envelope in her hands, say-
ing " here is something I found on the table, tell me what
it is ?'' After turning it over a dozen times, she said " I
don't toant to tell; I see what is in it, but I don't want to tell."
" Oh .do tell, Loraina, you did not say you would not tell
what this is ?" ''No, I don't want to ttll," and she went
on to describe the furniture, " tllO' lamps there, and a door
on that side, &c." " Oh do tell what this is, Loraina,
now, Mr. Durant thinks you can't tell, and be will go to
New York and say that we have deceived every one;
do tell to please me ?" "I see it, but !'don't want to tell;"
and thls kind of conversation continued until af~er twelve
Digitized by Google
171
o'clock, when they gave up, sa):ing she nev.er. .acted so be-
fore. I told them it was si11gular that they .all ~eted -so with
me, and that among all the somnambulists Dot t>ne had· ~ver
told me a single thing '"!hicb the magnetizer did not know1
ood then you will acknowledge that. ~y tpeory is correct.
Dr. Capron answered, "no, wo~ know they can see ;" and
here he named over Colooel Stone's letter, and many things
besides, to prove they could see; and he added, " youflea\'e
a letter with me, and I will get her to read it when she goes
to bed." I thanked him, but declined such an expel imen.t,
and said, if she can read with invisible eyes let her now read
a single sentence wh.ich I will enclose in this paper. He
declined, on account of something being the matter with her
then, " she never acted Sl) beforll." I told him I had come
#to Providence expressly to test my theory, and if he would
name any time to show me another experiment to prove what
he asserted of Animal Magnetism, I wo.uld remain for a· week,
or a month, ~o suit his convenience. He said, "we acknow-
ledge l\Iiss Brackett has failed with you in every thing, but
it will happen so sometimes, and I hope before you leave,
you will be able to see enough, in some of the other som-
nambulists, to convinca you we are right; but I can't set
any time for another experiment with Miss Brackett, because
there has been so many to see her lately that it has consumed
too much of her time ; but if you will write a letter and seal
it up, as Colonel Stone and Mr. Covill did, I will let her
read it and send it, to you with the contents marked on the
outside.
So much for the celebrated Miss Brackett, and now for
the true theory of her seeing. When she came in the room
'I after haviDg left without leave, I saw the cotton had been
Digitized by Goog[e
172
ahifted, and was most ingeniously arranged. A little cotton
was projecting from above, and a little from below the right
ey~; but in a line with the left temple, top of the nose and
right eye, there was no cotton, and I could have run my fin-
ger between the glass and eye in that line without toU<•hin~
the show of cotton at top and bottom of•the spectacle~. This
accounts for' seeing at the left temple,* and the cotton at the
left eye being similarly arranged, accopnts for seeing pictures
over her head. At the conclusion of the experiment, when
she had tired Hartshorn and Capron's patience, she rose in
her sleep to go in the other r<~om, when I caught her'hand,
and began to talk to her. Here she forgot she was not in
magnetic communication with me, for she began talking very
familiarly. She took hold of my whiskers, and said1 "You
think you are very handsome, I know you do ; you think .
you look very fine with them whiskers ; you conceit you are
somebody." So much for Miss Loraina Brackett's mo-
desty ; the harengere of Paris would not have done more !
• I ~•plaincd this to Mr. Hartshorn, after we lefl the house. I hope he will put that
as a communication iD. Part Second of"Deleuze·
.u
oig•tized by Google
·'·· ! :
CHAPTER XIX.
SIX'I'EENTH EXJ!ERIMENT IN ANIMAL MAGNETUM
AT PROVIDENCE.
~Vias Parker saw a diseared spleen--hear• a book and
knife-it is paper, but it ain't-not quite asleep-mag·
netized a little more-it isM, but it ain't-pantomime-
how the man whips that child-theory never worked better
--col. Stone'a picture in tht notes.
O.N leaving Miss Brackett, I called, pursuant to a previous
appointment, to witness an experiment with Miss Parker, at
the residence of Dr. Brownell, who is her magnetizer, and a
regular p.-ofessor of the magnetic doctrine. Dr. BrO\vnell
is .also aD eminent physician, and bears an unblemished repu·
tation for probity and honor. A short interview with that
gentleman satisfied me that be was above suspicion of decep·
'-/.. tion, and as sincere and honest in his belief as·the other pro·
fessors of Animal Magnetism.
Miss Parker* is one of the most celebrated somnam·
bulists in this country. It was her who discovered the dis·
eased spleen recorded in chapter four. She is about twenty-
seven years of age, and in her true character, I would place
her second best to all the somnambulists, Mrs. Andros being
considered fifst for intelligence and tact in the deceptions of
the craft. I had a little previous conversation with Dr.
_______
_
_____, ___
• The first of this lady'd fame wa~ ha..,·in~ four artificial teeth insrrtcd while in ruag.
U1"'tic. sleP{\, withrmt being con5cioiJ~ of ir, until ~he was waked. This case is often used
in support of the dor.trirw; the true theory is this: she wauted four teeth, and suffered
excruciating p;lill without cumpiaini11g, for the sake of having the terfh insf'rtfd gratis.
·!!he ia poor, and I fear will remain so. unless •he u ics some new science that my theory
cannot UAravel.
Digitized by Goog[e
174 .
Brownell about my theory. He thought he cotlld convince
me that Miss Parker possessed clairvoyance,. and this expe-
riment was expressly to satisfy me on that point. There
were present Dr. Brownell, Dr. Miller, Mr. Church, Miss
Parker, and myself; Brownell's pr?cess for magnetizing is
the same as that of Mr. Andros. The Doctor wa& seated
about four feet from Miss Parker, and closed her eyes in
about eight minutes, when he said she was in magnetic
sleep, and insensible to any torture or noise, except from
one in magnetic communication, and perfectly subject to his
•' will" in ali her actions. She is never blindfolded, be~ause
she does not complain of the light. Her invisible eyes are
generally on top of Mr head, though sometimes she sees best
behind. She always keeps her eyelids a little open, in order j
to catch a glimpse of the object before it goes on top of the
head or behind her. This is very important, because some-
' times the name of the object is not spoken aloud, and then
it would he impossible to acquire the necessary knowledge
by the magnetic cords through the ears. She is very shrewd,
but she found my theory too deep for her shrewdness, as
you shall see by the particulars of this experiment. She
was seated in a rocking chair, directly in front of the sofa,
on which sat Miller, Church, and myself. I requested the
doctor to " will" the hand to raise, but he could only move
it an inch or two. He remarked, this was extraordinary,
because he could generally "will" the hand .1\o touch the
head.*' I concluded to try the same ganle whictl I triea
--- --- - - ----- -- - - -- - - - ---- -- ·--
• TJ1e true cause of falling to get the hand up, wu, that both she and Mi•s Brackett had
h~ard ofmy theory working miracles on MissEbon, and they concluded to thwart me in
that, at lei\st. Illiss B. and Miss P. are great cronies; they eome together almost .,·er;r
day, and tell each other wbat hu transpired. By that means they obtain much know· 1
ledge In t.he way of"elalnoyanee ;" these two have been magnetized together, and very
inlerelling •tories are told of their "mD!Ikey thine•" in aueb casell.
L
Digitized by Goog[e
175
with Miss Brackett, and asked Brownell .if she could bet1r
what I said.• He replied, "no, she can bear oothiQg Wlless
I will her to hear." I held a knife in roy band, and said
audibly, "see if she knows I have a knife in my band."
" What .has Mr. Durant got in his hand ?" "Jl. knife."
·" See. if she can tell that I have a book in my hand."
" What has Mr. Durant.got in his hand?" " He holds a
.Look." • " Yes, now we will try the other part of my
theory, doctor ; and in this case you should not know your-
self what I bold. Ask her what I have in my hand." I
held a piece of pine chip behind her. "What does .Mr.
Dui·anl hold in hishand ?" She hesitated some time, and
said "It is paper." "Ask her " ·hat colored paper."
" 1\'hat is the cdor of the llaper ?" " It is blue, nearly
\Y
hite." "Are you sure .it is paper." " Yes." "Is
there any writing on it?" " There is sotfle leiters on il,
but I cannot see v:lwt they are." These and similar ques-,
tions were repeated at least twenty times, and she continued
to give similar answers. I held it perfectly enclosed in ruy
l1and to her head, face, and various other parts ; but still,
'' it was paper-light blue-nearly white-some letters c:~
it." "What is the use of it?" "I can't tell." "'What
is the shape of it ?" "Long, and appears to be in two
pa1·ts. " I now held it up open over her head, so that Mil-
ler, Church, and Brownell could see it. Still "it is paper-
flearly while-light blue-some letters on it-caR't tellwh4t
they are-it is in two parts." " Which hand is it in ?"
" Right." 'It was in the left. I now shifted it to the. right
hand. "Ask her if she is sure it is in the right hand ?"
" Are you certain it is in the right hand ?" " It was thtn
in the right hand, but it iu~ow in the left." So she con-
oi9,tized by Google
176,
finued for more than a 11alf hour, asserting the pine chip was
"paper-light blue-writ_
ing on it-in two parts," &c.
I clapped my hands .sudden_
ly, a,nd she started as much as a
pe~son awake would do. " How is that~ Doctor·; she bears
110 one but you, and yet slie starts at the noise I make ?"
" Oh, she can't be -
sound asleep." "How do you know
when she is sound asleep ?" · " '\Ve know they are sound
asleep \vhen they tell correctly, and do nOLjtart at a noise,"
was his reply. "'Well .then, Doctor, she cannot be sound
asleep, for _she tells all wrong. You had better magnetiz'e
her more ;" so poor doctor went to work magnetizi~g her ,
more, and asked her if she felt perfectly asleep ; "yes, I
afll perfectly asleep, note," was bet' reply. I clapped my
hands, and she started again ; "how is that, doctor, she can-
not be asleep yet?" "'\Vel!, I don't know, she never start-
ed so before ;" and here the doctor took up two books and
clapped them together ; she moved very little, and he tried
it again, ,,·hen she scarcely stirred* a muscle ; " I think she
is perfectly asleep, now," said the..doctor, " take the hooks
and see if you can start her ;" I declined, aoct/expressed
myself satisfied that she was now asleep. Dr. Miller remarked,
•
'' suppose you try if she can read ; she does read in her
sleep, don't she doctor ?" " yes, she can re&d, but she can
always tell one letter best ; suppose you step in ·the other
room, Dr. Miller, and put a large letter in a book;and hand
it to me, l will see if she can tell what it is;" Dr. Mille.r
accordingly arranged a large let~er in a book, and gave it to
the doctor, who remarked, "the letter must be upright;" so
,Dr. Miller opened the book to be sure, and gave it to him, and
be asked b,r to look at the letter, .and tell wh!)t it was ; af,
• 8be wu, b7 tllu time, pre)laJN 10 etandanr noPe.
~~
Digitized by Goog[e
•177
1er a little hesitation she answered,".it isM, I think it is Jll,
but I can't ace very plain ;" "ask her to be sure ;" "are
you sure it is M ?" "yes, it is JIJ ;" he opened the book,
and what d~ you suppose it was ? a large D, at least one inch
long ; I pitied the poor doctor, and feared he would be
obliged to believe my theory ; he could not account for so
many failures. I asked the doctor if she could distinguish
flowers ;· and prctposed trying her, which he consented to,
and while I was taking some flowers from a bouquet, in the
adjoining room, to cover a bottle of hartshorn, be came in ;
I remarked, "we will see if I can cheat her ;" he made no
tlbjections, so I put it to her nose ; she immediately opened
her .mouth and ceased breathing at the nose, but she stood it
well, for nearly half a minute ; when the doctor thought it
might strangle her, and wishing to keep him in good humor,
I took it away; at that moment Dr. Miller remarked,'' there
are tears iri her eyes; she is crying about something ;'' '' Oh !
see ho10 the man is tohipping the child," was her shrewd ex-
cuse. " She sees a rr.an whipping a child,"• said the doc-
tor ; who continued, "she often laughs and cries at things
which she sees in her ~;leep." Dr. Miller proposed asking
her the time by the clock. Dr. Brownell said, "try your
watch Mr. Durant, alter the hands, and I think she will tell
the time by'it; she seldom fails in that." I did so, and held
the face to the palm of my hand ; Dr. Brownell asked " what
time is it by Mr. Durant's watch P" she hesitated a little-arid
----------------------
·Recollect, she had not bee>L.put of the r<•<>lll. "'·en in spirit; h•r last ramble .,...._.,
gueasin~ at tl lt'lter in the r••uiU. They arE> au verY shrcwcl in this particular, generally;
i tbey are away deoewibing furnilnre. an>t you l'ltdrl•nly Mk th<'m to look at liomttl>in~
in the room: th•:y will say, y~u must bri.pg JU~ bnr-k .first, 1can't come buk: aloo~. Bu&
ahe for:;ot h·~r~r>Jfin thi:-; particti '~r instance; her e.r.cuse, to be consistent' with the
<IA>clriae, annvl<l·h&ve ltef.n "dt>mtr,"!!"'"room {6 ftll <if arrange ...,oke, I can't •tt if,
and ytt il •tra,gl,. me," orlauy euuae rellltlog to tll'e room which abe wu in.
17~
opened her mouth with a low whisper, "what do you say ;"
" speak louder ; w~ don't hear you ;" she still continued to
move the lips, as jf replying to each question ; once the doc-
tor said, " I think she says something ~bout ten, and three."*
"Well, be sure you know what she does say, my ears are
very sensitive, and although close to her lips, I cannot distin-
·guish a word;" "speak louder?" "I don't hear a word you
say." This pantomimic farce continued Qlore ~han half an
hour, when he gave up, and said, "I don't hear what she
says ; it is no use to question her any more ; she never acted
so before, and I don't know the cause, unless it is something
in the atmosphere about you. "t " Well, doctor, you wiU
acknowledged she has failed in every thing with me, except
the book and knife, which you knew+ yourself ; so you must
give up all pretensions to seeing with invisible eyes." The
doctor acknowledged again having failed with me, but
• Here Ia a proofofher ohrewdneas, and a key to Col. !>tone's picture•. She knew
by my converaation with the dc>ctor,that ahe had failed in every thin1,1111d she knew the
c.hanee ()( guessinp; the time waa not more than one in one thousand, and though she
would not care much about this failure alone, yet this connected with thP others, she
knew would be a stron~ proof of her imposition, anrl therefore, she articulates some·
thing to sound like tltree o'clock, and ten minnt··s, but so low, that it mi~ht be taken for
any thlnr;else. Now •uppcae the time by the watch waa thirteen minutes post one, and
aU pr··sen~ including myself, were belicvera In the doctrine. 1w'luld then have said• .
"ask her again, and see ifthe ten is not one," aa that sound.s lik'e ten. 8he would h{'ar
II, and when asked, "SJ•eak louder, l can't hear you 1" she would ha•e said, " • • • • •
• · o~ • • • ·" "yes, 1think ahe flaya one;" "well, that is correct, it iS thirteen min·
utet1 past one;" "but she did not tell the minutes correct, see if you was correct about
the thf'ee ;" ''speak louder, we un•t hear you; what time Ia it 1" and she wonld han
answered, "thirtun • • • • • • • • " "yes, she say« thineen," and aU preeEmt would
ba•e gone Jo a justice of the peace to make allldavlt,that Miss Parker told the time .by a
watch, with the hands altered, when it.,.... enclo'l,"d in paper, or at her back ; but my
heory waa too deep for one who. can oee a dU.ttJ8cd Bpleen. The watch waa twenty
anlnutea put wur, and she would not·have told It In four timestwenty gueleinp.
t Several of the profesaon attributed the total failure of all experiments durin1 the
week l waa at Providence, 1o "abodat-phere about Durant."
~ lahould think it otrance, if aile did not know thoae two thlnp, when abe had her
_. open, for liiJlflke the name• loud eno111h to be beard by au adder.
Digitized by Goog[e
17!}
he cited the case of diseased spleen, Col. St6ne's letter,
and talked about respectable ·proof of \vhat had been
done. I told the doctor, I was now throu!;h with all the
principal somnambulists in Pr~vidence, and that they had all
failed as Miss Parker had failed, but that I would stay a week
or a month longer, if he 1\·ould name a time to show me an~
other experiment. He exp;essed sorrow both in words and
look$, that every somnambulist had failed with me, but could
not give anothe1· experiment, because Miss Parker had already
3pent too mnch of her time in the~ e:lcperiments.; he felt re-
luctant to ask her for another. She had been waked up, and
,\·ns then in the adjoining room, where Miss Brnckett had
jn>t arrived on nn afternoon call.; I heard apart of their con-
''crsntion, it was about the article* on Col. Stone's letter,
which she, (i\Iiss B.,) had just received in the N. Y. Com•
mercia!, of the 4th Sept. ; they had a fine time over it, but
[ could not m•oid a thought of the future, and in imagination,
( saw l\Ii"s Parker weeping ove;· this narration_, (for she has
some virtues, and some modesty ;) and I imagined myself
saying to her, weep, woman, weep, for your dark deed~ are
unveiled ; weep for the disgrace yon have brought on your-
self; weep for the stain which your deception has caused to
your sex.; weep tears of repentance to wash out your ini-
quities, registered in heaven ; weep, woman, weep tears of
huma1~ity, till your heart melts witmn you, for " Oh, see !"
~~~-now lashi~g_''_!~! ~child-::__ ·- _ _ ·______
• The articleJs contained in charter.i'r.
Digitized by Goog[e
CHAPTER XX.
EFFECTS OF TH£ AUTHOR's TlfEORY OF ANIMAL MAG·
NETISM.
Jl,ev. Professor Daniel Greene, his marvellous works-Pro-_
feasor /1. Potter-Sorry I tcrote it-:.,'lccording to the
theory-Can't count money-Cwn't look at<£ watch-B.e-
ware of my theory.
·My first interview with the Rev. Daniel Greene, was on·
the morning of the 4th, at my lodgings, in company \\)th
three other professors of Animal Magnetism. Professor
Greene ranks very high as a magne_tizer, because he tells the
largest stories in relation to it. At the first .interview, he
told me much about his study and knowledge of the l)ervous
system, and the many marvellous things he had performed on
his patients, \\·hile in the magnetic sleep. Ho said," by the
rcill al,;ne I have paralyzed my patient's ann, I have paraly-
zed the half of the body, including the brain, and so cM~­
pletely, that the patient could not have fe!t it, if I lhealwl
cut the body in trco, only taking care to follow dotell the par-
alyzed line, and I knoro I can stop the breath and cause.
death in a persotl by my will in fifteen minttfes." ,
I praised his great knowledge of the nervous system, and
endeavored, by flattery, to induce bim to show me an expe-
rnent with his best subject, but he declined, saying "here is
plenty more magnetizerg, toho tcil'l show you their subjects ;
what is the use of shO\ving you ? You will be llke many
others who come here to see ; you won't believe it when I
show it to you-I am going to New York soon, to give some
lectures, and then you may see it." I explained to him. my
'
Digitized by Goog[e
181
theory, but he would not hear it, and continue~ talking aboct
his knowledge of the nervous system. I now tried to drive
him, and told him there was no such thing as clairvoyance,
which I could prove by Messrs. Andros and Potters, wl o
were present : but all would not do ; 'he would not show n:e
Miss Jones, his patiei'Jt. He told Mr. Potter, the nex.t day,
that the reason why he would not let me see his p'atient wu,
because he was going to New York himself, in a few day~,
to lecture, and " Durant would only put my eyes out. "•
On the 6th of Sept., when in company with my friend, Mr.
John Miller, (associate editor of the Providence Journal,)
on our return from witnessing the co•nmencement ceremc-
nies of Brown University, we met the Rev. Daniel Greene.
I again tried to obtain an ex·periment from him, but without suc-
cess. I said to him, " here is my watch, worth fifty or one
hundred dollars ; I will shift the hands, roll it in ·paper, and
if your patient will tell the time by it, within one or two
minutes, I will make her a present of it. I will put a dozen
bank notes in separate papers, and if your somnambulist will
tell merely the denomination and bank, without psking her to
read a9y thing else on them, I will make her a present of
them. If she tells only a few of them correct,. I will not
give her any, for I can guess at a few in a dozen, but s!ut
must tell them all to obtain them as a present ; and if she
can see the tenth part as well as you say she can, she ought
to read every word and letter on them, which I do not re-
quire. You say she is poor, and you are going to lecture
with her for money, so you can have no excuse for not com-
plying with this offer;" but all would not do, he would not
consent to show me his patient, but pamed over many
• :J'be parable• or lile Re•. profenor aro not cen~rall7 •"'JlnleiU;ible.
Digitized by Goog[e
182
wonderful things she had done, and named respectable peo-
ple who would swear to it ; he said he should be lecturing
so\ln in New York, and then he would IJe very much pleased
to show 'me how much he could do.
I have said all ti.Je m11gnetizers are Bincere ancl J.o.ne$t in
the belief of the magnetic doctrine, but I have had some
doubts about the Rev. Professor Daniel Greene, of Paw- X.
tucket, and though I still entertain some doubt, I will throw
it in the scale of mercy, and believe him sincere. The his-
tory I have already given of him I know will leave an im-
pression on the mind of the reader that Daniel is an impos-
tor, but I will sketch what may, probably, be his true cha-
ract_
er. He is a preacher of the gospel, and a practitioner
in the healing a1·t ; he is about 45 years of age, anti posses- .'~­
ses more sagacity than intellect ; he delights in telling mar-
vellous things, and he is so credulous, that after be has told
over two or three times what hP. at first knew to be wrong,
he begins then to believe it himself, and seriously and honest ·
ly tells it for truth ; he is much celebrated as a professor ot
Animal Magnetism, yet pt-ople, generally, do not believe one
half that he says on any subject. I will give one instance of
his credulity, which occurred after I leit Providence ; it was
told to me by one of his brother professor.>; the particulars
are these :-Professor C. Potter (of whom I have before
spoken} engaged a young lady somnambulist to go with him
to New York, for the purpose of lecturing ; she was in indi-
gent circumstances, and he advanced money to " fit her
out. •• She resided in the neighborhood of Mr. Greene,
who told her and her friends that Professor 0. Potter was
eousiR to the Rev. Mr. Potter, well known in that vicinity
ss hav.i.og been once expelled the church for a lascivious
Digitized by Goog[e
183
transaction with a young lady : he said this merely to pre•
vent professor Potter from superceding him in the New
York lectures, and he told the young lady that he would re-
imburse the advanced funds if she would not go with Mr.
Potter••· Professor Potter of course heard all this, and took
pains to prove to professor Greene that he was in no way
connected with Rev. Mr. Potter, and askeri him to contra•
dict the falsehood he had circulated; but reader, will )'ou be-
lie\;e it, Daniel has neither contradicted the falsehood nor
reimoursed the n:oney ; and I think it is because he told the
story so many times, that his credulity recei\·ed it as a truth,
and promising many times to pay the money; induces him
to believe that he actually JJaid it. I would not have blottecl
these pages with such a character, but 'jnstice rertuires a
pa5sing notice of such a celebrated professor, whose marvel-
lous deeds are recorded in the '' Translation of Deleuze,,
and who is ·frequently cited as a very re~peetahle witness
to prove the truth of Animal Magnetism. He is a living
sat{re on his race, and one such man as Rev. Daniel Greene
would cause .more injury to the Christian religion, than
would five thousand open and avowed infidels.
Before meeting Mr~ Greene this time, professor l\mericu3
Potter and professor Andros caliHd on me at the City Hotel.
I told them that Dr. Brownell had consented only to give
me an experiment with Miss Parker, on conrlition that I
would afterwards make her a present, in some delicate man-
ner, to compensate for her time, which she coula not afford
to lose in experiments ; but I added, she told me nothing
correct yesterday, and rriy conscience will not permit me to
make her a present under such Circumstances; but I will fold
a dozen bank notes in papel', and also enclose my watch in
Digitized by Goog[e
184
paper, and if she wit! tell the denomination 01 the notes, and
time by the watch, slle may have them all as a present.
Those two gentlemen and myself c~lled on Dr. Brownell, to
make him the offer, but as he was not in, I requested they
would see hirn as soon as he ·came· it1, and make him the
offer ; and I also told them I would do the same to any som-
nambulist whom they would induce to make the attempt.
Mr. Potter asked me if I bad Hartshorn's book, (published
that day.) On answ.ering in the affirmati~·e, he asked if I
saw a letter in it from him to l\lr. Hartshorn. I answered
no ; ·when he ~aid " perhaps he has reserved it. for the se-
cond part. I wrote, .by his request, a description of one of
my somnambulists, but I will not now allow it to be pub-
lished, for 1ince I hat•e seen you I have changed my mind
some, and Jam son·y that 1 tcrote it."*
I gave notice to all ihe professors, that I would leare for
New York _on the aftei·noon of the 6th, but of1'ered to remain
a week or a month longer if they would set a time to show
me another experiment. I had been sufficiently open in my
conversations to convq t.o many genllemen a tole::rably
correct idea of my theory, and, on the day I left, it began to
be understood ; for a geut!eman opposit0 to me at the dinner
table, by accident, overturned his champaigne glas!'i, when he
remarked, " Durant, tftat is according to the theor.y."
About a dozen of my friends and acquaintances called to see
me at the hour of departure ; among them were Mr. John
' Miller, Dr. Miller, Messrs. Dyers, also professors A. Potter
and Andros. I was explaining, in light humor, some of the
effects of my theory, when professor A. Potter remarked,
• Professer Pouer is oot theonly one in Providence who received oome ,...., ideao from
the marvellous oft'ecta produced by my theory. 1\lr. Hartshorn opened his eyes ve'1' ';1.
wid~, when I told hira about the cotton behind Miss l.oraina'11 opectacles. I doubt
whether numt.er two of Deleuze wiU ever see the lishi in this hemiai>here.
Digitized by Google
185
'' ./lh ! Durant, that curl* in your under lip satisfies me
tkat your t"Mory is merely a 1tep to knock something else
doiDn." I turned to him and said, recollect that I have wit-
nessed every experiment in Animal Magnetism which the
professors are willing _to show me, and I have seen all the
best somnambulists, but in every instance I have _proved my
theory, and the somnambulists have failed to show a single
case of clairvoyance, or to do any thing which I cannot do
when awake. Now I leave Providence, and I wish to recall
to your mind that I have not said a word against the science,
but I warn you, Mr. Potter, to be aware of my theory !
CHAPTER XXI.
SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH EXPE~UIENTS IN
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AT NEW YORK.
Jltli1s .!lyres-Magnetic convulsions-.fluthor sees thoughts
tDith invisible eyes-she hears the torong hand-can't see
my theory-( thought so, too-Mysterious dream of the
author-Chips turned to money-Exchange very high-
Note• should be taken up and read.
ON my arrival in New York, (7th &ptember,) I called
on professors William W. Grant, and Christopher Potter, at
Clinton Hall Hotel, where they were preparing for public-
lectures, with Miss Ayres, a ¢ousin to , Mr. Grant. Pre-
fessor Grant is a native of Providence, and a young man ef
wealthy and resp;ctable family, and on all subjects except
the magnetic science, he converses with good sense. He,
• I had continued to praise the science, and I wpnder how Mr. Potter could eee 10
much in a curled lip; but I begin to be a rhyalognomlot, for a UUle lflrl, to whom I am
pledged for life, has told .;.. more than once that my pretty Upo llood WOG her·heart.
Wilen I finish thi• book, I intend to oatiofy myself on that point by a peep in tlwl &laM.
oi9,tized by Google
186
like the other professors, is sincere and honest in his· belief,
and evidently above the practice of deception. •
I first saw him at the Varick House, at the t-ime Mrs.
Andros was residing there. He was then alone on a recon-
noitering tour, and as I was going to Providence, I requested
him to give me a letter which might procure an experiment
with his cousin, Miss Ayres, then in Providence; but lte
declined, because, in such a case, she must be magnetized
· by some person other than himself, which is considered in-
jurious by all the professors of the science. I endeavored
to prevail on Mr. Potter to obtain from Miss Ayres an ex-
periment while in Providence ; but he said she would not
consent that any person but her cousin, Mr. Grant, should
magnetize ner. It is Christopher Potter who came with her
to meet ..Mr. Grant in New York, and the same Mr. Potter
as the reader must recollect, who magnetized Miss Ann
Eliza Ebon. Another lady, sister to Mr. Grant, was also
at the Clinton Hotel when I saw them. 'fhe conversation,
of course, turned on my visit to Providence, and Mr. Pot-
ter rema-.;ked, " I don't understand how you succeeded so
well with me and Miss Ebon, for we have been trying with
Miss Ayres, and your theory don't work \Vith her. I think
you will be satisfied that you can't affect her the same as you
did Miss Eboa." Miss Ayres was now present; also, Miss
Grant and Mr. Grant, in parlor No. 6. The reader will
recollect :that Mr. Potte'r was in Providence, and knew of
my experiments to defeat the somnambulists, and what he
knew had of course ·been talked over in presence of -Miss
Ayres, and therefore it might be supposed she would be pre-
pared and guarded against every attack that I could make on
her deception ; but no magqetic somnambulist has ever lived
Digitized by Goog[e
.187
who could withstaQt1 the scrutiny of my aU-searching theory.
I remarked w Mr. Potter that, though I found every subject
differ a trifle, yet all seemed to harmonize, and I thought I
could convince him by an experiment with Miss Ayres that
my theory was too firmly based to be overturned. Mr.
Grant offered an experiment at once, and using the same
process as that used hy Mr. Andros, ne put' her in magnetic
sleep in about five minutes. He then extended his hand,
and hers rose to meet it, and he pronounced her " sound
. asleep." She now commenced a musical* sound in the
throat, which sounded much like a chorus of singers at a
di~tance, and Mr. Grant, calling my attention to it, asked if
I ever observed th~ same phenomenon in any other somnam·
bulist. I answered, ''it is the first case of the kind that I
,lave witnessed, and I am much pleased to see something so
new and interesti':Jg ; but, some .time at our leisure, I \vill
explain the cause of it. by my theory."
She now commenced twitching the hands, .and closing h~r
fists; she flourished them in the air, and drumming on her
breast and epigastrium alternately with each, and occasionally
wi~h both together. Mr. Grant remarked, that those convul-
sions were generally attendant on her magnetic sleep ; but
less severe now than in the first experiments. I told him
I was much pleased to see an e.xhibition of the magnetic con-
vulsions, so strongly developed ; and remarked further, the
strongest convulsive symptoms that I have previously wit-
nessed, w~::re in Miss Brackett, but she only moved the arms:
by sudden twitches, scarcely raising the hand more than three-
or four inches ; it is particularly gratifving for me to witness
• The muaie wu 1he l8llle u thal produced b7 ven1ril"''uiata, IIOd I'IIIJed bo7- wbc>.
jnfoot the market docks. I am not much aequaiDted with muale, but I think theloata.
wer' much aofter th&ll tba.e from the bu100n.
188
such strong symptoms, because I will be able to explain how
you may, by my theory, subdue them almost entirely;" if not
all together ; they are caused by the magnetic fluid meeting
with obstructions through the system, the same as water sud-
denly emptied on the ground will start by sudden twitches
in \·arious directions through the earth, until a small clear
channel is formed through which it may pass off freely. So
with the magnetie fluid, it meets with obstructions at first, and
the best way to quiet the convulsions will be to drive out the
obstructions by forcing a stronger magnetic current through
the system ; now, try the manipulations by the hands, and
see if you can't " will" enough of the magnetic fluid through
the system to stop the convulsions.* He commenced dra\\··
ing the hand from her forehead down to the toes, and then
shaking the fingers, so that no fluid would adhere to them ;
and so on alternately, commencing at the forehead, and end-
ing at the toes, where he shakes the fluid from the fingers as
a cat would shake off the fluid of a puddle from her feet. In
one or two minutes the convulsions entirely ceased.t
1\Iiss Ayr~s does not complain of the light, and therefore
• Tbe true llw>:y of the•e cr.nvulaions will be best understoor! by the !"lltler, fro111
the dC'scription of a uatura! ca.se of somnambulic con\'ulsions which~ I witnessed a few
months oiirrce in the city of New York, when passing that den of Iniquity called the
. u Five Points.n 1 saw sotncthins jn the forut of a humart being, (the African n>.ce,) in
female attire, lying partir. on the side walk and partly in the guner; her hts were
eleoehed and 11om ishing in the air, and ever and anon abe WOUld strike her breASt 811<1
epigBlltJium, with one or ~oth haods alterDately. As I paoacrl her, sbe dashed her li$t
in W>e gutter, and ciUJle nigh disfigurir.g my boots and pantaloon• with the mud and
dirty vnuer. She also exhibited the phenomenon of music in the throat; the tonea
were a little more harab than thoee sent forth by 1\liss Ayres, and I caught the notes
as they grated on the ear, like-G • • d • • • y • ' ' ' a ' • • y • • d • • • w • • • • & •
b • • •· w • • • y • • d • • • y •' I • • m • a •,. • •. Tbe theory l1preci8dythe aame
in both eaaea, it is a" volition of the will."
t Tile reader rayt readily pereeh•e the eaaae of eeulnr. Her aan were opeta, and
ablt wanted a Ut.tle Kl~e abo\lt It, 10 abe aenforwed to the "will"or IQQni'Nilou ca
the 111bjecL
Digitized by Goog[e
189
.she. is never blindfolded. She always keeps the eyelids
open a little, so she can see the object before it goes on top
of her head, J''here she sees with '' Lwisible eyes." She
also takes good care to sit close up to the wall, or in a cor-
ner so you can't get b~hind her; and it was not until I used
gre'llt persuasion that I could induce her to sit a little remov-
tld from the wall. 'fhere was a letter lying on the centre
table addressed to "Wm. W. Grant, New York," which
she had undoubtedly had in her hands a dozen times. She
also sat facing the- table with her eyes enough open to see all
that was going on. I took up the letter, and holding it open
before her, said to ~:r. Grant, "ask her if she can see this
letter ?" " What has Mr. Durant got in his hand ?" ".11
letter," was her reply. I now held the letter carelessly with
t\Je inscribed side towards her, and within two feet of her
eyes, and said to Mr. Grant, " ask her if she can read the
superscription on the letter." "'fell me what writing is on
the outside of the letter ?" She answered, " William W.
Grant, .N'tw York." I praised her ready and distinct an-
swer, as being superior in some respects to the other som-
nambulists, and explained it according to my theory, in the
usual way. Mr. Grant knew what was on the letter, and his
knowledge was conveyed to herbrain by the magnetic cords,
as he was in magnetic communication with her.*
I asked if she could hear me, and Mr. Grant gave the
usual answer, " oh, no, she could not hear a cannon fired by
her ear." I now said, I want to try an experiment the same
as I tried with you, Mr. Potter, on Miss Ebon ; l wrote on
• The reader mull! aee it was a very atron\( cord this lime, for not only had she read
It many times, bot her eyes were also a Uttle Ofl'"D, and •he """ me take it from the
table, and I held It dose enouah to read nen If 1ha never 1aw k before. Ears were
not neee,.ary In this cue.
190
on paper, will the left hand to raise, and gave it to 1\fr.
Grant ; I now said, audibly, "will the left hand to raise,
this is the same as I tried with Miss Ebon." He" willed,"
and up came the right hand. Mr. Grant opened his eyes;
and Mr. Potter, looking at the paper, smiled, and was about
to say, "that ay'nt the same as you tried with me," but I
said; hush ! and raising my hand, he stopped at " that ~ 'nt
* * "' * * * ;" I remarked, as this is an experiment of the
will and mind, you mus_t not make any remarks ; I want to
try !mother of the same as I tried with you and Miss Ebon;
[ wrote on paper, which I gave to Mr. Grant, will the right
hand to raise. I then said audibly, "be sure you do what I
wrote on the paper, will the right hand to raise." He
"willed," and, reader, would you believe'it, the left hancl
rose gracefully up to the chin. Mr. Grant remarked, " why,
that is not the same as you tried with Miss Ebon." Yes, that
is the same, and according to my theory, in some cases, I
must take them' in contraries. " How is that according to
your theory? I don't understand it," said l\Ir. Potter. Why,
( wrote right hand and you tried to will it ; " yes," and I
said right hand ; " yes ;" then I willed the left hand to de-
feat you ; so you must acknowledge it was' according to my
theory. " Why no, it is not according to your theory, un- ·
less the theory is to defeat the will of the magnetizer ;"
said Mr. Potter. Well, that is a part of the theory; it is
the effect of the mind; and if I had time to explain it all to
you, you would see it clear as noon-day ; some time I will
write it out, · and then you will comprehend the whole at a
, glance ;* let us now try another experiment of clairvoy-
• The true theory in this case, 1s a most etfectual stab at the heart of the pretended
scirnce; it is quite equal to cerin or upeuin_!J qf Miss Ebon's ey~.<;, or cell n;,, nr •' tchiJ•
JJing t/,a: child." The po•iticc pretended ·cft'e~t of.\nimal :\1-.~guetism, is to 'omrnand a
l\I
oi9,tized by Google
191
mce. I took from my pocket the selfsame chip which lliss
Parker bad transformed into a "piece of paper, Llue, nearly
white, and some letters on it." I held the chip enclosed
in my band, and requested ~lr. Grant to ask her what I held.
" What does ~~r. Durant bold in his band ?" " It urond,
illoolu lilu money, il is bright ;" "yes, but see if she can
tell what kind ~f money it is ;" " what kind of money is it?"
•' It is a quarter of t1 dollar;" "see if she can tell the
date;" "what i:: the date of it ?" "eiglctun, tuo--" "ask
her if she is sure the third figure is a two ;" and l.now
opened the hand o\·.er her head, and held the chip e:s.posed
to the view of ~Ir. Potter and ~Ir. Grant, both of whom
sl.owed a half i\·illing smile, as Mr. Grant said, " are you
certain the third f.gure is a two ?" '~ eighteen~ighteen­
tlti·ee-" "ask her what the fourth figure is;" "what is the
f(Jurth figure on it ?" "eighteen hundred and thirty-" "ask
l.('r if she is sure it is money ;" " look again, and see ifyou
u; e not mistaken; are you sure it is m?ncy ?" " yes, it is a
r; t.
;u:tcr of a dollar, eighteen hundred ancl thirty ;" and so
, ;.c continued for full half an honr, insisting the poor pine
d,;j; ,,·as "a quarter of a dollar." I hm·e preseJTed it as
; wost singular phenomenon ; and intend to deposit it, \rith
. the cerin paper, in one of the museums. It may do as a
· ,. ,j, :' tlae act.>
r11:: (•f t:,e ~· -' t.:n <J tJ;. ;J u!i.s<. 11nute iF_/1;..nJ sr..i·l 1'.:-t Jtruul, and yet the ri,;ht
l·<~flti ra: ~·~rf ; t!nd h:;ai;, I WffJte rig!.t lt?.P.ri 8811 f.lai.J right :.an~ when: ac~ onlinl! to all
L1 >
\ ~ <&w.i aL th~vries (t·.\C f•j•l tt:y owu.) the ri;!tt band should l:a,·e r-dJ:;oet.l, l•tJt inste-ad of
t. •.l!... t il ~ lt_fi kEd cu:tH::; ur,; why: ii !.er l.ead had then jumped from Ihe boc!y, it "·ou:d
I <i.\'e been a11 ! 'HUislt n! as tv raise the lift hand. Here is the kcyLy which you may op~n
1t. ~r. Potu•riinU Mr. Grant hail talked to Iter about my \t"onderful manoeu,·re in perform· ·
u; all thing& oo :\lis.:~ Ebon, \~hich J spoke aloud when ~lr. !)otter had a [l)emorandumoo
paper t<> wJiloome contrary thin:;. Sha knew such things would upose the dectptien,
~ud •he resolved to thwart we. She thought I was r~aUy trying the same game with 1
her, and she concluded when I sairlliftlumd, tbat the writing wii.S right l•and, and abe
Ailed it accordingly. It never occurred to ber light hollow br~~in, lhlll I kntto wbat a4c
.cnttD, aod could reall with "invisible eyea·• ~er very tlwurhta.
Digilized by Goog[e
192
substitute for the ~'paper currency;" then thos~ who are
handy with a penknife, according to her own and nfy theories,
will never want for change.. This was readily explained,
according to my theory ; when you first asked the question,
you did not know what it was, therefore you could not con-
vey any correct idea of it, but you involuntarily conceived
on your brain that it was a qua~ter of a dollar, and the mag-
netic cords conveyed that idea from ·your .brain to hers,
after I opened my hand and showed you it was a chip ; but
the first impression, (quarter dollar,) was so strongly im-
pressed on your brain, (particularly by knowing she had fail-
ed, which caused you to think the stronger,) that the incorrect
impression still remained strongest, and mutt of course be
carried by the magnetic cords to her brain.* Seyeral other
experiments succeeded equally well, and having finished, she ·
was waked up ; and while conversing on the science generally,
eight or nine gentlemen entered, I think by appointmellt
with l\Ir. Grant, to see a private experiment ;: they were
principally clergymen, and among them were Rev. 1\Ir.
Frederick Farley, of Providence, also l\Ir. Farley, his broth-
er, of New York, and Mr. John R. llartlett, firm of Je ,srp,
Swift & Cr•. , New York. The conversation soon turned
on my theory, which, by requ&st, I explained, to the apparent
delight and satisfaction of all pres~nt ; the Rev. Frederick'
Farley thought, " it is very clearly explained, and a very
ingenious theory, at all events ;" I tho~tght so too,. but I did
not wish to express my candid opinion.
The day after (8th September) the first experiment with
• Thu true theory is thio, I used her own ears to deceive hcraelf; in Inking the atick
from my JlOCket, I took care to shake oome key• which sounded like "something round,
money, silver;" and I caused Mr. Grant to put lcauing queationa, to lead her h• the trap,
aa Col. Stone was led into hla own roo:n, and thetc biinde<! ~aindbla"•iU."
m2
.
Digitized by Goog[e
193
Miss Ayres, I saw Mr. Hall, of the Commerc1a1 Advertiser,
to whom i had explained my true theory, a~;: he, I knew,
esteemed Animal Magnetism as highly as myself. He then
called my attention to the following advertisement in the
Commercial Advertiser of the 7th, (the preceding day:)-
" ANDIAL .M..\GNETISi\1.-At the urgent solicitation of a nutnber of •
Pcientitic nnd litera• y gentlemeH, a~ well as of many ladiee, the subscnb~r has
been induced to tArry n few days in this city, for the purpose of exhihiting a
few expenments illustrative of tht• remarkable phenomena of Aruma! :Mag-
aetism. Hnvmg a >ut.ject pos•esscd of the pow~rs of somnambuliFm to a
considerable extent, he i• enabled to satisfy the most sct•ptical of the truths
of the science, nnd the more fully to convince them, h&s "" ol•jection w
suhmit his experiments to tne most ri!!id scrutiny. He proposes l(iving an
exhtbltion at the Clinton Hotel, to a limited number of ladies and gentlen•en.
Cards for admi8sion to whic·h can be obtained at the Clinton Hotel, and at
l\Ir. C. Sht·pherd's bool1store, No. ~62 Broadway. Hours of arlmtssiqn at 12
1\L, and 8 P. l\1.
He will Rlso wait upon pnrti~s at their own houses, when a private exhibi-
tion is preferred; and will be happy. to see tho~e who dc>ire to witness fUch
on exhthition, at the Clinton Hotel, hetw'een the hours of 9 and 11 A. M., and
4 nud 6 P. l\1. Wr.I. W. GRANT, of Providence, R. !."
In the conversations with Messrs. Grant and Potter, ~ had
upder.stood them to say they would not in some days yet be
prepared for public lectures, and I hoped before that time
arrived, to send them out of the city, as I had done Mr.
Andros. I intended, as soon as leisure from other business
would permit, to write out my theory, which I knew would
not only stop all exhibitions of Animal Magnetism wherever
it would be read, but I also knew, or thought I kne'w, that
_.the very professors would be so much ashamed of it, that
they would soothe their "spasmodic twitchings" by saying,
"well, if it is all .deception, New York helped to pay for
it.'' I have some local pride, and as I drew the fluid of the
future through my ~rain, I felt such a sentence in relation to
my native city gmte very harsh upon my ear, and I even
imagined that I heard others saying, " Durant, why did you
11ermit them to deceive us, and get our money, when you had
at _that time in your po;session such overwhelming testimony
Digotized b~ GoogIe
194
to undeceive us." I wished to avoid such a severe rebuke in
the future, and I con.sulted Mr. Hall as to the most judicious
plan of operations.. If I went there and explained the true.
theory to the visitors, the genuine fluid might ~e ~aught by
some well disposed persons, who sometimes carry a dark
1·esin and plumes to mark the subjects of their displeasure,
and such a result would only ln:ike things worse, for. two
ladies .were in the case, and " tar always leqves a s!ain."
So I resolved to open a private " account current,'' to be
" balanced" after my leisure would permit, to disclose the
true theory of Animal Magnetism, when I knew that all
11rivate 1orongs would be obliterated by the public good. I
submitted my' plan to Mr. Hall, and it having received his
sanction, I thought it prudent to put it in execution ; for I
knew that with his bene\•oleut feelings and correct judgment
of things, he would not sanction any thing which the world·
at large would condemn. I now went, of course, to Mr.
James 1V. Hale, and gave a diagram of the camp, and mode
of attack. He being my aid in this warfare,. of course
buckled on his armor at the first tap of the drum. I always
feel an aversion to dark deeds, when awake, and therefore,
I will tell what occurred in a dream. I willed a " magnetic
sleep" on myself, and I saw (in spirit) a man go in and out
at the "exchange broker's.'' I saw him purchase for one
dollar a ten dollar note on some society in Ohio ; and he
procured for fifty cents a five dollar note on a broken bank
of Maine ; at another place in Courtlandt street, he procured
a five dollar note 'Of the Washington Banking Company, and
a three of some other bank, for fifty cents each ; making in
all twenty-three dollars, for which he paid in all two dollars.
· I JalY him go to Mr. Hale, and after some whisperiPg, they
Digitized by Goog[e
195
sallied out in the high ways and bye ways, and ever and
· anon stopping to whisper· something mysterious in the ears of
those they met on the peregrination, and each one instantly
turned to •.follow· them to Lovejoy's Hotel, where they all
(thirteen in number) collected around this mysterious look-
ing man, wh~ addressed them thus:-
" ~entlemen-there is an exhibition of Animal Magnetism
to be held ia the Clinton Hotel, at 12 o'clock. Now this
pretended science is all a delusion, as I will be able to prove
to you hereafter, when I shall make it so plain that every
man will be able to magnetize himself, and perform all the
wonders ·which these somnambulists perform., But when I
shall make it known, people will be sorry that they ever
paid a dollar to see it, and the professors will be so much
~shamed of having practised a deception instead of a science,
that they will endeavor to palliate their chagrin by saying
'well, New York helped to pay for it,' and if they actually
receive fifteen or twenty dollars, they will magnetize it into
cne or two .hundred dollars. Now, to save the credit of the
city, I have bought some broken bank money, and they will
be so glad to. receive something for the science, they will
suppose it is good money, .and give good change in return.
This good change we will keep to balance accounts when the
whole theory is known. Now, to prevent falling in magnetic
sleep ourselves, we must present the largest bills first, and
then they cannot give us any small broken bank bills in
change. That is called the theory of' change. ·I shall be
with you, and when you look at my wand, afluid will. reach
your brain, and direct you what to do. You must be very
civil, because there are two ladies in the room ; and you
m.ust never say a word about this, until I am ready to pub-
Digitized by Goog[e
1~6
!ish my theory of the my3terious fluid. There is a bar-room
down stairs, and for fear the magnetizer may direct ~e will
there, to ask the bar-keeper about the currency of the no~s,
it will be necessary to let him in the secret, and then, if
asked about the money, he can say he has no change, but
almost any .money is good enough since paper was mag-
netized at Washington."
Here they aU left the room, and I saw nothing o(them
until in about one hour, when I followed them (in spirit)
into the same room at Lovejoy's ()otel, where I before over-
heard their conversation ; they were now all giggling like a
flock of geese. I found they had been to see the magneti-
zers; and being only thirteen of them, an~ tickets one dollar
each, they had ten dollars in good money as change, which
they handed out to that mysterious man (he looked just like
a theory) ;. and I overheard him whisper to them thus :-
"Now, gentlemen, you must keep dark about all this, until I
have time to explain all my theory, and then, if \Ve find they
shall have received less than ten dollars good money, we will ·
make up the balance, but if they ever receive ten dollars or
more in New York for magnetizing, thenwe will keep this
ten to balance accounts ; because they should not receive
money from the citizens for doing what every citizen (by the
aid of my theory) will be able to do for himself without
money ; and by that means we shall save the character of
the city from such epitheti as, toell, you New Yorkers helped
to pay for it."
· That mysterious man ceased talking, and I overheard one
of the company say to him, " it takes you to do things," and
another one said, "now you all recollect that there were no
· persons in the room who paid for entrance except ourselves."
Digitized by Goog[e
197
" Yes," said another one, " and I was there last evening by
invitation ; it was the first exhibition, and they did not then
receive a dollar, for there were only five persons present,
who .all c.
ame (gratis like myself) by invitation." 'fbe
whole company then dispersed, and on awaking, I retained
recollection o.f what I had seen ; and it is not since entirely
obliterated from my brain.
About half-past twelve o'clock on the 8th, I called on
1\I,essrs. Grant and Potter, at the Clinton hotel-Miss Ayres
and 1\Iiss Grant were present. On entering the parlor, I
c.xpressed so'me surprise at not seeing visitors and an exhibi-
tion; saying, I saw an advertisement in which you announce
an exhibition at twelve to-day. Mr. Grant remarked, "we
intended an exhibition, but as no persons have called, we
concluded to postpone it." I sairl to them, I would not
think of postponing it, for in passing through the bar-room I
heard a number of gentlemen talking about magnetism ; and
I inferred from their conversation that they were coming up
stairs: it is usual for New Yorkers to be always half an hour
behind the time at all theatres and exhibitions. While such
conversation was going on, a rap at the door.announced son:e
,·isitors to see the exhibition. One gentleman gave .l\lr.
Potter a ten to pay for six persons ; he appeared agitated
with delight, and diving both hands in different pockets, he
drew out his pocket-book, from which be gave them four
dollars change. Another arrival of four gentlemen with five
dollars, one dollar change. Again a five dollar bill paid for
three persons and received two dollars change ; and again a
three received bne doll~r change. From such a crowd of
persons r.ushing in together, I began to think Mr. Grant
would do an excellent business in Animal Magnetism, and I
Digitized by Goog[e
193
helieW3 both him and Mr. Potter thought so too, for they
were exceedingly lively in handing chairs to the company,
and making excuses for not having had tickets prepared to
save time in making change at the door. They at the same
time exhibited a superior dignity, and seemed conscious that
the eyes of the world were looking to them for a lecture on
the wonderful science of Animal Magnetism. I am not well
versed in similies, bu.t I could not avoid comparing each of
the professors to an East India nabob, reclined under his
own fig tree, with a rainbow in his mouth, and smoking a.
cluster of spice islands. · But after all the fuss, there were
only thirteen who paid to see ihe exhibition. I was acquaint-
ed with one of the gentlemen, Mr . James W. Hale, whom
I had seen in company with the professors. I ascertained
that the names of the other~ were Captain A. C. Delano, of
..
New York, Samuel F. Caldwell, do.; Isaac C. Pray, editor
of the Boston Herald; Mr. Rixford of Nantucket ; Charles
Burdett, reporter for the New York Courier and Enquirer;
l\lr. Ames, a lawyer of New York; Mr. Bigelow, do.; Mr..
Kingsbury of Portland ; Dr. Clark, of Jersey City ; Mr. 1\
Davis, and two other gentlemen, whose names I did not
learn. I had a "faint recollection" of having seen all those
gentlemen before ; and it occurred to my mind that they
might be the same party that I saw in my magnetic sleep-
but as to that, I would not like to say positively. After a few
preliminary remarks by the professors, Miss Ayres closed
her eyes (nearly as usual) by the "mental will" of professor
_Grant. I proposed putting me in magnetic communication,.
as the gentlemen were strangers, ,and would probably prefer
.. seeing the experiments tried by OJ\e acquainted with it. Mr.
Grant told her to hear what I should say, and l was thus "cloth...
Digitized by Goog[e
199 .
" ed w:ilh the poUJer of enjoying her exclusive company!!!
'' I then commenced a conversation with Miss Ayres upon or-
'' dinary subjects, just as I would have done with any strange
''lady (strange kind o( lady !) to whom I might be introdu-
" ced, talkinr:, upon variow;, matters, and ~he conversing in a
"sprightly anrl iutelligfmt manner, using very correct English.
" In the course of my remarks, I now askPd her if she would
'' like to visit'' Jersey City ? ''She replied, that she would.
" ' She should like to go there very well.' I then observed
"' that it would afford me pleasure to accompany her; and
" asked, how shall \Ve go ? Shall we take the steamboat'•
Sussex ? '' It is a very fine boat, and now lies at the dock.
" She replied, she did not like to go in a steamboat, it made
" her sick. This remark was noted as affording an illustra-
" ·tion of her former ideal voyages, in which she actually be-
" came sea-sick, (' and vomited in a lady's lap,') as was re-
'' ported to me," (by Dr. Capron,) from professor Grant,-
" 'How then will you- go ?' ' I should like to go through the
" air.' 'Very well,' I replied, 'we will step into a balloon,
" that will be a pleasant mode of travelling. . She did not,
" howevP-r, seem to comprehend what was meant by a hal-
" loon," (yet she had seen balloons, and knew that I was 'a
balloon man,') '' and repeated her desire to go through the
" air. I assured her that I would as gladly accompany her
''that way as any other. 'But you must not let me fall,' said
'' she. ' Oh no,' I replied, ' I am used to that mode of traveJ,
" ling, and will bear you up with perfect safety.' "
She still continued to object to travelling in the balloon,.
and said, '' I UJill fly there."
" Saying which, she grasped my right hand more firaaly-
~' took my left hand, and pressed upon both tremulously, as.
Digitized by Goog[e
200
" if buoying herself up. I raised ,my barrds some t!m or
" twelve inches, very slowly, favoring the idea that she. was
" ascending. ' You must keep me up,' she said, with a
n slight convulsive grasp, or rather shuddering grasp,'' (like
the thing in the gutter, affected with natural convulsions,)
" as though apprehensive of a fall. ' Certainly,' I replied,
" 'I am used to these excursions;' and away, iil'imagination,
'' we flew!!! ' Oh,' saic.l she, ' how I like to travel in
'' this way, it is so easy, and we go so quick.' ' Yes,' I
"answered, 'and here we are, at" Jersey City. Come,
we will go right through the window.
" She then grasped my hand, and bore down, ·exaetly as
" though descending from a height ! ! !
" Safely down" said I, "and now tell me what you see
in the room:"
'' There is something dark on that side," she replied.
answered, "Yes, what is it ?'' '' It looks dark, it looks
like a table." So she described accurately something there
looks like chairs, looks like a glass between the uindows, a
carpet on the .floor, ·very light colored.'' She placed much
emphasis on the word light colored, and I remarked to the
gentlemen, ''that is a very extraordinary circumstance, for
my carpet is lighter colored than one in two hundred, as Mr.
Hale can tell you, and this fact alone, ought to establish the
truth of Animal Magnetism.* "Well, what else; do you see
any thing in the centre of the room ?'' " Yes, I see some-
'It is a vory singular fact. that my carpet is probably lighter colored tl1a1• most carpet<~
in us6, but the true key to thia is, Mr. Grant had visited oe two weeks previous, a_
od she,
of course, carelessly asked many questions from her cousin, about the house ofa man
who could open the eyes of a aomnaOJbuliat, against the" will" ofthe magnetizer. Mrs.
,,A.ndros, alao, ba<l visited my house oeveral times, and these two forlune-tellen had an
eJtcellent opportYoity for mutiUZl improvement in clairvoyance, befo{'e MiOi A.-,res left.
Providenee.; !he empl).,._-"•ry liaht mll&llt aowethin(, and I usecllt with tbe eowpa,.
1lJ u ahe 4-e,W:ed. ·
o;9,tizec by Google
201
thing in the rnidcJle of the room, it is a table," " A~e yo11
sure it is in the middle, is it not a little on one side ?" " Yes,
it stands nearest to that side.'' l remarked to the gentle~
men, that this was v·ery correct, for my table stands on one
si<le of the room, near the hook-case.*
Several such things were told very correctly, and i ex-
plained it acqording to my theory, as usual. I was in mag-
netic communica~ion, and my knowledge was conveyed by
the magnetic cords to her brain. I .now told them of the
power of cerin, cutting off kn01oledge, as well as sleep. My
communication was broken off, and Mr. Grant" was clothed
with the e~clusivc power of enjoying her exclusive compa-
ny"!!! I said," let us try an experiment with bank notes,''
and I exhibited a Lancaster Bank note to Mr. Grant, in or-
der to impress it on his mind, and then I put it between the-
folds of a newspaper. Mr. Grant asked her "what does
.1\h. Durant hold in the newspaper ?'' " It is a bqnk note,
one dollar.'' "Yes,'' now I dropped my cerin bandkerchief
between her and Mr. Grant, and he asked her " what Bank
is it?'' "It is a bank note, Y-Y-" Mr. Grant remarked,
that he had himself forgotten what bank it was ; I said, it
will be necessary in this experiment, that you should know,
because I wish to show that even when you do know, CERIN
will cut off your knowledge, and she will tell wrong ; so I
stepped towards him, and taking out the bank note, I put in
a tetter which was lying on the table. I showed the letter to
Mr. Grant, and said, "now impress it strongly on your mind,
for I intend to prevent her telling it, by cuttrng &ffyour
knowledge with cERIN.'' I held my pocket handkerchief be-
'I need not tell the rea~or, that my table stands neareot lo thai •idt, fur· if J.C>Il will
ma,11eti~o yourself, you will see thai witho~ eye•, pro>ided you are DOl d~af.
Digitized by Goog[e
20.2
lore her,·and Mr. Grant asked" what uv~:.::o ••u·. .o..~urant hold
in the newspaper ?" ·She answered, " It i~ a one da.llar
note, Y- York, Bank of .N'ew- Yorl.>." • She was ask~d a
dozen times, to be sure, and she continued to give the sume
answers, when I opened the single fold of the newspaper, and
showed the letter to all. This was ex~lained by my theory
in the usual way. She told correctly one dollar note, because
his knowledge was conveyed to her by the magnetic cords ;
but a's soon as the cerin handkerchief was placed between,
it cut off the magnetic cord which conveyed the knowledge,
and therefore she- could not know there was a letter in the
newspaper, but the last impression on he•· mind, bank note,
was the most prominent thing on her brain, and therefore she
must continue to answer bank note. The error in the name
NewYork for Lancaster, is accounted for by my theory thus,
the name of the bank had not been strongly impressed on her.
mind when I changed it for a letter. She retained the im-
pr~ssioo one dollar, and the natural association of ideas,
gives to he.r brain the impression that a one dollar note must
be of a bank ; next, what bank ? why, she knows she is in
New-York, and therefore the association of ideas gives her
brain the impression, ''it is the Bank of .!V'eto- York." All
wer~ delighted with the lucid explanation* by my theory,
and the company separated, to dream (at Lovejoy's) on the
inexpressible beauties of Animal Magnetism.
•The true th<"ory needs but very little explanation. Folie knows hy lJcr rarfl, that ir is
a banknotr, and every thing' rise !l1e must gm:ss at. It is ouc dollttr. I anticiparrd rhii
guess, from my prc,·ious expcrimettt with her, and !=;electctl one 1lollar, to have her gue•8
on• tfli11~ Cl)trectly, and now R!iP. fall.£~ completely i1l the gu .! ~sing·trap, for if Grant can
hwill" one dollnr, he can "w:U" Lancaster, hut ~he ~'lt'S~t's "wide of the mark."
Again, if Grant can "will" one dfJllar, P..c can "will" one lettP.r; but she Uon:l hit the
mark. Again, a cerin han,lkerchief, or moonshine, curs off!t:nowledge, but it dun'l cut
off g'<eosing, for 3he continues guessing e~01tg to gu•,. her head off.
o;9otized by Google
·CHAPTER XXII.
UIPORTANT FACTS RELATING TO THE HISTORY Of'
ANIMAL MAGNETISM •
. Philosophical rambl.l-1 never think of such thi7J.gs-/ am
satisfied they are asleep, and that is enough-But I ay'nt
-.Mysterious atmosphere about the author-Did you say
so-.No-Letter of David .M. Reese, .M. D.--'-JJ-lrs.
.flndros again in Neto York-She must think she is asleep
-Tells ct great deal better-Can't tell what ticket drau:s
the high prire in the lotte1·y-Balance of account in the
notes.
I called to see the professors on the morning of the 9th
Sept., and had a social conversation on the all absorbing ·
topic of mag'netical science. I "let down the bars," and
'took professor Grant in a large open field, for philosophical
investigations, as I said to him, do you never allow your-
self to doubt the various things in life, in order to convince
yourself of realities, by philosophical proofs; I o.ften indulge
in such speculations myse1f, and though it may not be very
lucra~ive, yet it feeds the insatiate appetite of mind, and
seet~s a suitable employment to strengthen the reaching pow-
ers of thought. I would take that picture, or the slab on
that t~ble, for instance, and doubt that it is marble ; thought
would then search for proofs to support my doubts, and in
the pages of cosmogenous law, a formidable argument could
be offered to the arbitration of mind ; painted wood is some-
times made to resemble marble ; fragments of other rocks
may he so combined as to deceive the most critical eye ;
earth and metals in cemented masses, may imitate it, and yet,
in its decomposition by fire,. it might nOli form.lime, or in· a
Digitized by Goog[e
204
chemical analysis, show the.component atoms in properties
or quantities which nature employed in the formation of what
by general consent is called marble ; again, there are many
proofs that it is in reality what to the eye it .appears to be ;
it is colored and hard like marble, it is cold and susceptible
of polish like marble, it is brittle and fractures like marble,
and a chemical analysis may show that it has all the atoms in
just proportions to form what by common consent is called
marble ; have you never allowed your mind to investigate
matter by reaching with thought for the proofs to confirm
the reality of appearances ?
" No, I don't know that I ever thought of it ; I don't
know that I ever think of any thing of that kind."
lVell, I frequently indulge myself in such meditations,
and I ant very apt to doubt all things until I philosophically
prove them to my mind. I even sometimes allow myself to
doubt that I am alive or have an existence ; and in this, like
in all other cases, I find many proofs to support my doubts.
You know in our dreams, \Ye thirik positively, that we are in
some other world than this earth, and then suddenly we are
positive it was a dream ; I have often dreamed and was cor.·
scious.that I was dreaming ; the vision has been pleasant, and
I have tried to remain in sleep, by avoiding any motion of
the muscles that might cause me to wake. I have seen hor-
rible visions, and was not only consciou1 that it was a vision,
but I have also succeeded by great exertions to rouse from
'the sleep. I sometimes think that what we call life, is noth·
ing but a dream, and when I wake up -in the morning,! shall
have a long and amusing story to tell, about beiug· in a world
they called the earth, where the people lived in what they
called houses, and clusters of them together they called cities,
Digitized by Goog[e
205
and tlley thought they had nights and da)s, and had quem·
looking things called beds, on which they recline in the nights,
and then they imagined they slept, and even "dreamed," as
they call it, that they were in another world beyond it. And
again I find many evidences that I am alive, and after duly
weighing all the proofs, the mind decides that there is some_
reality in the appearance ofthings, and that I certainly have an
existence. Have you never allowed your mind to philoso-
phize on such things ?
" No, I never thought of such things. I never thought it
worth while to think about such things."
Well, I often amuse myself in that way, and doubt things
until I prove them. Have JOU never doubted, for instance,
the sleep of the somnambulist, in order to prove to your
mind that they are asleep ?
" No : we know they are asleep."
True, but I should think you would often doubt it, merely
to see how you could prove that they are asleep. Have you
ever thought of any evidence that you could give to support
the sleep ?
"No, I don't know that I have: we are satisfied that they
are asleep."
Yes, but I think that every thing admits of proof; and for
that reason I think the phrase self-evident, has no meaning,
and should be erased from the catalogue of words. 1 should
think you would occasionally amuse yourself with that kind
of philosophy, and sometimes look for proofs that they are
in sleep.
''·why we know they are asleep, because a person awake
could not see as they do."
But you know I have proved to you that they have no
oig•tized by Google
.206
" Yes, I am satisfied now that they have no clairvoyance,
but a person awake could not be controled by the will of
~
another."
But first you would want to prove that they are controled
• by the will of another. Now I am, for instance, satisfied that
they are subject to the '' will" of another, but thdt don't
prove it. You know a person might 'feign sleep, and gues1 ~
at '.\hat they ~e to do.
" Oh ! a person awake could not guess so correctly."
Why it is possible to guess all things which the somnam-
bulists have told me ; and you know that a person feigning
sleep could shut their .eyes and stand a little pinching; and if
they are feigning sleep, they hear all that is talked about near
them ; and if they hear, they would learn a great deal without
guessing, for you know it is customary to talk over what you
want them to perform : so Miss Parker might have told
abont the diseased spleen, merely by leading questions from
Dr. Brownell, or she might have guessed it, and then not do
mor~ than a person awake. I spent nearly two hours with
her, and she told correctly only the things which were talked
of in her hearing.
'' Well, how then could Mi~s Brackett read Colonel
Stone's letter. She is blind, and cannot see any thing when
awake."
But we should first prove that she is blind : if she feigns
sleep she may feign blindness, and a l1ot knife will open a wax
seal without injury ; or you can see a great deal of a letter
without breaking the seal : if she could read a part with in-
visible eyes, she should read the whole, and she only read a
part of his letter.
'' Oh, I am p~rfectly satisfied that they are asleep."
N
207
I am satisfied ioo, but still I frequently doubt things in my
mind, merely tQ prov~ them.
" Well, how would you prove that they are asll'ep ?"
Oh, I scarce~y know. I never particularly thought of that.
I am so well satisfied that they are asleep, besides a personJ4 ,
awake could not guess so. well.•
" Oh I have no doubt about their being asleep. "t ·
There is no do11bt of that, but how very difficult it is,
Mr. Grant, to make people generally believe it. There is
so much evidence in it, particularly in favor of being awake.
You know none of the somnambulists have told me more
than one awake could tell, and then they told so many things
wrong, and Miss Ayres raising the right hand yesterday
when you willed the left hand. to raise, and then all of them
failing with me in almost every thing, make it look rather
singular.
" well, it does seem mnterious, and there must be
something about you. When I was conversing with Dr.
Webb, of Providence, at the Varick House, he asked me
what was the tame of all the somnambulists of Providence
failing in every thing last week, when they seldom failed
before ; and I told him that I thought it was because Durant
was on there, and deranging the minds of the somnam·
bulists by making them believe that they could not tell any
thing ; I know the mind will afFect them a good deal. "
Was that Dr. Thomas H. Webb, the proprietor of the
-i Providence Journal ? What did he say to your remarks ?
• I lmow a colored man who will gueaa at a mart with the best~DA~tnelie somnambu·
lilb in the Btate•; he Ia an areh rogue, he pretends to his customers that he is tkqf, and
10 ,eta much of their lm<>tbkdtt ftom their owu moutba, and then lela their aliiUinp
for tellinc their fortunes.
t Look "'ain Profc..or, after 7011 baoe pertllled tbll book, and " be •ure :rou are
rilhl."
Digitized by Goog[e
208
" Yes, I believe he is the editor. of the Journal. He did
not say much in answer to my re~arks, but he seemed to
think that you was the canse .of their failing.
It i.s very singular indeed that you all attribute the
failures to some mysterious atmosphere about me. I shall
begin to think that I am a wizard. I shall not forget your
re_mark to Webb very soon. You know that my theory
shows how these things are accomplished if the person i$
asleep, but you know that my theory does not prove that
they are asleep ; for· you see, according to my theory, the
somnambulist may feign all these things without affecting the
truth of the theory.
Such cqnversations• continued smne time when Mr. Pot-
ter, with the two ladies, Miss Grant anrl Miss Ayres, entered
the parlor from a morning walk.
I remarked-You must be doing a pretty good business.
From the company that I saw yesterday, there must have
been as much as twenty-five dollars in the room."
"Yes, we are doing very well," said Mr. Potter, who
continued, " but there were only twenty dollars there."
Mr. Grant had previously told me that they had received
" twenty-one dollars at that time."
And . you must have had as much more at the first
exhibition the previous evening ?
Mr. Potter answered " we received only eleven dollars
then."
That will make thirty-one dollars, whi~h will pay your
expenses; and I think it very encouraging for the commence-
ment.
• I ban h<>ld oimllar eon.,ereationo whh three <lit!'erent profeaoou, and alWliYI
reeehed slmilaf annero. Not one ofthem ever ot!'ered a lli"flc e'fidence 10 prne
magnetic aleep.
n2
Digitized by Goog[e
209
Mr. Grant replied, " Oh yes, that does very well, and
more than pays the expenses."*
Mr. Potter followed me to the stairs on my departure,
where I had some conversation about the sur.cess of Animal
Magnetism in New York. I said to him, there ·are a
great many unbelievers, and I fear that if you exhibit any
more before I have time to publish my theory, the citizens
may perhaps be a little rude. After my theory shall ha1•e
appeared, they will then understand the science, and not
only believe in it, but the most of them will be delighted
with it. At present, you cannot explain it, and many even
think it is a deception. When I left the room yesterday,
after that exhibition, I heard some of the gentlemen whis-
pering among themselves something about brolen bank
notes.
Mr. Potter replied, "well, if any bo.dy has received bad
money from me, let thefn come and tell me of it, and not
whisper about it in my absence."
• Tile reader will find a key to tllis in the dream tecordeu in a pre~eding chapter.
You will rec.ollcct there were only five tt.\e first evPning, who were all invited, anu, of
course, came in gratiJJ. NHw I hR.ppened to be present at the twelve o'clock expPri·
rnent, when there were only thirteen paying vis;tors, and if I am to believe my dream,
(which I know to !Je more correct than such stories from proft>ssors,) thirteen persons
Pntered for ton dollar• leo• than nothing! Let us enter the account in tile ledger, and
•strike a balance :- Dr. Cr.
Science. Private acc't.
Five persons, tickets one dollar,...... .. ... .. ..... .. .. .. ... . .$5 00
Do. error in ace unt, as tllcy didn't pay,.. .... ....... 15 00
TllirteAn persons, tickets O!:e dollar,........ . .. ...............1:J 00
Dtf..~?~.~~~~~t~.":~~~~."::t~.i~~·.~~~.~~.~~~~=-~~·.~~~r·g·e·:~:': } 23 00
18 00 liS 00
c~~~~·e·i~~.~~~.t~~••~~~~.~~~. ~.~~.:~.~~":~~~.~o.~~~~~~~ ~ 10 oo
828 00
By the abon, I find acience must receive ten dollars before they are e•en oqo<arc
with New York, and the debt is as Lad ae the Mbt• due from Chicago to Peer) •tree:;
oversto~ked with .,.c/o commodities, and "change ao ecarce and exchange 10 hi1h, that
we can't seud It by1etter. We will be duwn to the city In the spriJll·"
Digitized by Goog[e
210
I then remarked, no, I did not undetstand it so; I could
only catch their meaning from whispers, but I tmderstood
them to say that they had giv.en you bad money. You could
tell, I .suppose, by looking in your pocket book ?
•' Yes, I know what money I have got, and I suppose
they mean to say, if I am • • • • * * * • •, they will
• • • * * * * •, but let them come on with their bad
money."
I don't know that they meant any thing, but you know
thoughtless people are sometimes rude, and until they can
see my theory to explain the science, they will not believe it;
being a friend to you, I thought it was my duty to tell you
what I heard, and then you could act as you thought best.
" Well, I am muc'h obliged to you, for telling me, but I
don't fear them ; let them come on with their bad money, I
am reacly for them."
The following letter fr6m Dr. Reese, of New York, may
serve to corroborate my testimony in relation ·to professor
Grant, and l\liss Ayres.
"JEUEY CJTv1 September 28th, 1837.
Dear Sir-Hnving le1rned, that.dnring the late visit of i\Tr. Grant nnd his
lad.Y soonnambuli~t to this city, yon availed yourself of the opportunity to
investigate the 511hjcct of Animal 1\In!!netism, and h:t vin!! und f' r~tood thnt ·
you tested the pretul>ions of the magnetizer and h's sononanoiH:I:''• ioo the
presence of a number of ladies and gentlemen, inn 111'\0IItcr wl'll cnkulnted to
satisfy the curious; I would respectfully "olicit the result of ynurohscrvntions,
together with any fa cts within your luwwledge in rclnrion tn the subject.
Your early compliance will oblige, as I am about i•• ooint: a p•t h lic~tion on the
subject, to which professionalttstimony may be itiiJHJrtant nlld useful.
D. M. REE•E, M. D."
y·our~,
t:. 1<'. DURANT.
"N£w YonK, S<·ptember 29th, 1837.
Dear Sir-:-In reply to your brief note of yesterday, and in comph nee
with your reqnes1, I can have no objection to statn "the re•ult of my observ"·
tions" upoo1l\lr. Grant and the voung Indy who was the suhjcct of nis "expe·
1imenta in Animal Jllagnetism; but as to any ''facts withtn noy knowltdge
in relation to the subject," I regret to say that so far as my opportunities of
personal knowledge wtll. allow me to decide ur.on the rnerirs of "Animsl
Magnetism," there is an utter absence of any single" fact," which can in the
Digitized by Goog[e
211
least give a abade of reality to the "science falaely so called." I saw a
nriety of experimentll perform!ld at Clinton Hall, upon the young lady iu
question, by Mr. Grant, hie friimd Mr. Potter, and other gentlemen, but
neither in tbeir manipulations, volitions, nor conversations With her during
apparent aomnamt.uliam, nor in thoae which I myeelf conducted, was there
to my min<! any semblance of evidence, which even rendered it probable that
abe elept at all, or whether, asleep or awake, that she poawesaed the faculty of
clairvoyance or even imflginative locomotion, aa pretended ; but, on the eon·
trary, all the "facte" which aerved to bewilder and ever, convince others of
the genuineneu aud marvelloueness of the somnambulism, were to my
mind ao obvio•Jely "falee facts," that I was uue,Jy amazed at the dduaiona
by which so many around me were deceived and imposed upon.
Withou~describing minutely each experiment I witnes;oed, suffer me to alate
that Mr. Grant'e·theory is \hat there is no sight or clairvoyancE;• in the ~omnam·
buliet, but he alleges that the phenomena which he pr.of••s•• to exhibit,· re~ul~
wholly from the mer.talsympathy or intercommunion between the mind of tqe
magnetized person and the individual who is in cqnveraation with her. H~ ueed
very little manipulation, but employed hie eyu in looking upon her intently,
and his will in producing sleep. He declared that he could put her to sleep
without being in the room with her, but in no instance aueeeeded wt.en be
tried it in my pre~ence, thouW! he said he had often done so. I nw him, bowner,
a number of times, by the exercise of his will, and the use of his eyes, dispose
her to a stmblance of sleep; after which, by a few passes with h~ banda, he
would pronounce ber in a &tate of somnambulism. The following dialo~1e
took place on one of these occasions, wl).icb wiU serve as a specimen fur the
uninitiated. ·
"Mary, are you asleep 1" "Yes," was her modest reply. Then turning
to me, Mr. G. said, "Now, Sir, I will convince fou that she id under the
influence of my will, and that ehe cannof see. I wil drop thi~ pencil into her
band, and she shall call it what~ver Y9U plea9e." J expressed my satisfactioD
wida the test, and wrote 011 a slip of paper, '"'a loaf of bread," and handed it to
him. He promptly spoke to hi• "sleepitl§ beauty," and .said, "Mary, hold up
your hand." She did so. "Both hands, • ile added, and she obeyed. 'I'hitt
manreuvre I understood to be significant that it · wnl! s·omethin£ lar!ft which
waa to be given her. Dropping the pencil iR her band, ar.d putting forth all
the power of his 1Dill, he said, " Mary, what ia this1" She replied, "it is a
1Dater-mtlon!'' Again he repeated the question, and s.he said "a big appu !"
And thus she went on guessing unaliccessfullv, until aware of her utter
raihrre, she ;oighed heavily, and was asked if she was sick, to which sbe
• feplied in the affirmative, and her indisposition wu alleged 11s the cause of
her failure. After trying the sa10e experiment again and again with a .key,
a knife, &c., it was abandoned. I then £ave her my watch, h11ving previoualy
moved the hands some houra beyond tlie correct time, and Mr. G. told her to
tell the hour without looking at it, which he affirmed dhe collld do ·witb
accuracy. She guessed, after holding it a moment to her stomach, and to the
aide of the neck, naming the correct hour of the day, but a very dijftrtr.t time
from that which the watch indicated. Being told that she ·was altogether
• Wbe11 professor Grant first came to New York on this science, he was a firm
belie•er in clairToyan•e. I bad much trouble to convince him of his error, and it was
not until my first e:rper!ment with Mios Ayres that he gave up to· me, and acknowledged
himeclf a perfect convert to my theory. He should 81 least have told Dr. Reese tdere
be acquired his theory. No professor of the ·acienee since the days of De Puy-
eegur and Dele11ze, had any theory wbarever until "'!!beautiful theory du.zled their
tulderetanding•. "Give every do& bill bone." In tlieo~y "I will ba.vo my plllllld l>f
fieeb."
Digitized by Goog[e
212
wrong, she halfopened her eyes, and in passing the watch again ftoom ller
e.tomach to her neck1 stole a glance at it, but still failed to guess within an
hour or two, and thrs experiment also Willi 11 failure. I then attempted &o
conduct her on a short walk through streets with which aha wa1 not fam.liar
when awake, and though abe readily prdfesaed to ge in imagination on the
designated route, and to Bee all that I ducribed kl Mr-, yet the moment I
ceased to give her leading ~eatiOJu, I found her utterly in fault, gues•ing and
blundering perpetually, untrl, in common with all tile compan:f, I feh no other
eentimeut . than dia~t~~st for the silly imposture, and commtaseration for ita
deluded victim~.
After a number of interviews with this young lady when awake, and after
witnessing her in a state of somnambulism, so calle(l, and clo~ely iil.veati-
gating the experiments made by l\1eura. Grant and Potter, at one UJae, and
by the former three times, as well aa listening to conversations held with her
by a number of gentlemen after being magnetized, I have deliberately come
to theconclusion in my own mind, which subsequent readia~ and rellection
hBYe contlrmed, that no part or parcel of the pretensions of Ammal .Magnetism
bas any foundation in truth, but that the whole is a ridiculous conceit, a
stupid • • • • • •, of which its devotees willaoon be heartily a11bamed.
Thl)t this girl, though said to be peculiarlysusceptible of the magnetic lluid,
and an excellent specimen of somnambolliste, was ever a•leep in my presence,
I unhesitatinely deny. Her eyelids never ceased to quiver when they were
closed ; the rotary morion of the eye was uncea$ing, ani! the pupil gave evi-
dence, on opening the eye, that the function of vision was in no degree
euspemled, though of thia I had other and unequivocal evidence. Never-
thelees, she seemed to be adleep in the estimation of all the believers, ahhou~h
to a practised observer her sle"p was but a clumsy co11nterfeit. It was satdf
however, bf two gentlemen Y.t.o eaw her, and had previously seen Colone
Stor•e's gir at Providence, that Mary gave as veritable evillence of genuine
.omnambulism as she. Of this, however, you can judge, after having seen
them both, as I understand you htve. If this he so, however, I cannot sup-
press my astoniohment that any man of ordinary intelligence could be so
egrC~tiously gulled, as I find some of my quond.am friends have been. As to
the experiments I witnes~ed, durin!:" the several hours I devoted to this object,
at each of my .visits, I am coniltramed to declare that during her alleged som-
nambulism, this girl exhibited no one evidence, either of clairvoyance or eub-
mieeion.of bet mind to the will of her magnetizer, nor were there any pheno-
mena which could compare in mysteriousness with the "facts'' with which
furtune-tclltra, in the shape of old women, aatrologer•, and • • • • ·• •, are
ever and anon enlightening our most gullible citizens.
If you shall succeed in the publication of your "Key" to rxpose this moat
mischievous of modern • • • • • • •, or rather this resuscitatton of an old
imposture, you will be a public benefactor. And I trust, our good friend,
the Colonel, with his • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • correspondent, by whom
he bas been indoctrinated into this stupid delusion, will be restored to their
aanses through your instrumentality. Wishing you all success in your good
work, I remain, Yours truly, D. .M. Rnn, M.D.
C. F.. Dvu.MT, Esq."
Mr. Reese will perceive that I have striken out a few harsh
words, which (though they may be just,) it,will be percei~·ed
by a perusal of these chapters, would not accord with the
tenor of my rebukes. The conqueror, to be truly brave,
must be merciful. I went some distance to cut a StDitch,
Digilized by Goog[e
213
when at the same time I have a bundle of horsewhips on m_y
desk; we should also keep in view that
"E•en •• the plowe-adda awiftnt-18 to the dart,
Pnml!d lanpa8~ &ends its aa1ire to the hf"ert."
Writers on fiction usually have a heroine whom they place
in the foreground of the tableau vit•ant; and describe with
the most minute precision her outgoings and incomings : but
as my tale contai'ns facts instead of fiction, I will bring forth
my hero, whose perambulations my readers are no ooubt de-
sirous to learn. It will be recollected that I left him in Pro-
vidence, though not without a second brief lecture and
friendly admonition for his good. Ikept from him the de-
tails of my experiments, but told him in plain words-.JJfr.
.!lndro:r, there is no such thing as sleep or somnambttlism in
all the .!lnimal .Magnetism of Providence or the Universe;
the whole is a deception, and both simple and disgrac~{ul.
I advised him to attend to his mercantile business and aban-
don the false doctrine, except o!!casionally in private to lull
any suspicion on the mind of Mrs. Andros. He said, " it
can't be possible that all arb mistaken, and Mrs. Andros inust
think that she is asleep." I asked him if he had tried what
I proposed to him at my house as the means of detecting her ·
deception, and he answered me, " no, for ~be must think
she is asleep, and I have spent a hundred dollars in my visit
to New York ; if I could only have two or three lectures to
get that back, I would not care ljO much. I promised to
~ive you fifty dollars to pay your expenses to come on with
me to satisfy yourself, and I am willing to gire you a hundred
dollars, for you have been at a good deal of trouble' for me ;
but would you care if I went to Boston to lecture there, un-
il I could get back what it has cost me ?"
In answer to him, I said : Mr. Andros, it is asserted that
oi9,tized by Google
214
"every man has his price," and I may have mine; but a few
hundred, or a few thousand dollars will not purchase me.
You promised, it is true, to pay my expenses, but I .~id not.
come to Providence expressly for you, and therefore I could
not receive money from you. I am provided with funds,
and I have now done with you. You may lecture where
you choose ; but if I am now asked my opinion of the
science, I must give it in candor. Ifyougo to NewYork, I
shall be asked the question daily ; and if you go to Boston, I
have friends who know that I have been investigating the pre-
tended science, and they will write to know my opinion,
which I must give them now in candor, as I have no more oc-
casion for duplicity. I shall say nothing about it at present,
unless asked the question; but some future day, when I have
more leisure, I will write out the result of my inquiries.
I had intend-ed to go from Providence to Nantucket, to see
pmfessor Poyer.; but business now required my attention at
home, and having in my possession such overwhelming proofs
against Animal f\Iagnetism, I judged that any further invcsti-.
gation would be a sinful waste of time.
My admonitions seemed of ·little avail, for scarcely three
weeks elap.>cd, 'vhen I learned to my astonidunent that 1\Tr.
Andros and his lady had arrived in New York. I called to
pay him my respects in a few days after his arrival, and when
I told him that the visit was very unexpected, he replied :-
"Why Mr. A. G. Thompson, of New York, a very rich
man, was on to Providence, and he saw me put Mrs. Andros
asleep, and he wanted us to come on to New York to give
him some private experiments; and yesterday he gave me a
check for one hundred dollars. 'Ve go to his house twice a
day, and he says he will pay all our expenses. He is a firm
oi9,tized by Google
215
......uever in Animal ;Magnetism, and I have no do~bt will pay
me very liberal ; and Mr. Doyle will ·b~ on in a few days,
and tlaen we thought of giving a few lectures."
I asked him if he had tried what I proposed, to satisfy him-
self of her feigning sleep, and he answered, " no, but I know
she thinks she is asleep, Mr. Durant, and she tells a great
deal better now, than when you saw her."
·What has she told so extraordinary lately.
" Oh, I don't know, she has told a great many things, you
would be astonished. "
Well, what is one thing she has told ?
"Oh, I hardly know, but she tells a great deal better than
when you was at Providence." .
Well, Andros, when she improve!' so as to ·tell what ticket
draws the highest prize in the lottery, I want you to let me
know, will you ?
" Oh, I know you don't believe it, Mr. Durant, but some
how she did not tell well when you saw her, and I know you
are going to write and say a great many thine;s against it."
I assured him that I intended only to write my theory,
and let the public draw their own inferences, which I trusted
would be very favorable to the science.
· I called at another time, and saw Mrs. Andros, in his ab-
senc~, when the following dia1ogue occurred.
" I hear you are going to write against magnetism, Mr.
Durant, I should think you would not, I don't see why you
should."
I don't see who could say that I was going to write
against it. I ain about publishing my theory, with the facts
that I have witnessed, and you know that would rather be a
benefit than injury to the science.
Digitized by Goog[e
216
'' I don't see why you want to write at all about it ; you
wont publish any names, will you·? I would not like to lla~o
my name published."
I should think you would like to have yournamE! ~n it,
the theory will be very interesting, and I came partly to see
if you desired to have your name in it. Of course I would
not mention your name unless you desired it. .
" I don't see why you want to write any thing about it ;
you wont make it any better or any worse. Yousee a good
may.persons .~rite against it, an<l it don't amount to any thing.
Mr. Andros has heard that you are going to write against it,
and he don't care. He says, if nobody writes against it, he
would be obliged to hin:* ·some one to do it, so as to make it
more known."
I now " toilled'' my fore finger to open, and the hand to
raise, as I said to her, woman, you know that I know
enough about it, ana you may tell Mr. Andros, that if be will
employ me to take up the pen against Animal Magnetism, I
.warrant that he will never have occasion to employ another.
CHAPTER XXIII.
ITRICTURES ON COL. WJIII. L. STON&'s UlTT&R TO DOCTOR A. BaJGHAM1 ON
ANJMAL MAG:S&TISM.
CoL. WM. L. STONE: ·
Sir,-Your ''letter to Dr. A. Brigham, on Animal Mag-
netism, describing an interview with Miss Loraina Brackett,
while in a state of somnambulism,'.' seems to require a special
notice from the author of a Key to the mysteries.
"Thia aayiug, Andros got from Peter F. Ewer, and it was always a aolace to teU it over
WbeiiiJI article •ppearedinany ofthe paper.,t~~aiost Animal Magnellsw. ·
Digitized by Goog[e
217
Strictures, rigid and ample, on your letter, will be found
in the twenty-two chapters preceding this .page, where evi-
dences conclusive and overwhelming, are given, to prove
that. the do~trine is a deception, and so simple and wicked,
that reason must brand with weakness, infatuation and idiocy,
the man who will hereafter believe in it. It cannot be pre-
sumed that I would now discuss, sentence.by sentence, your
letter, in order to show its false and wicked tendency, when I
have already pro'ved, beyond the probability of doubt, that the
doctrine on which you found your ''remarkable intt,n·iew !"
has no foundation in truth. A sin~le paragraph from your
letter, would now be a stain to my page, and you,must read-
ily perceive, that an attempt on my part, now, to disp1·ove
your narration, when I have already proved that your subjtet
and doctrine is false , would be a most effectual satire on my
self. I cannot, however, allow your letter to pass without a
condemning sentence on its pernicious tendency, and a brief
notice of your reprebe.nsible conduct, in raising a false bea-
con on your hi~h name and character, to strand the weak
minds of a credulous world. I will show you cause for re-
pentance, till you shall loathe the offspring of yonr own brain,
anrl1f a ' ' volitiqn of your will" could accompJi,h it, you
should '' vomit'' your production " in !crher..£:Jl lap,'' to
clear out the g·uilty stain from your he.art.
The votaries of Animal :\ ~agnctism, claim for their idol,
nttrlbutes, nothing short of omniscience; and you, as an en-
lightened man, living in an enlightened age, should have known
that omni3cience belongs to Deity alone. " Charms,"
'' fol'tune-telling," and" astrology," have been duly meas-
ured by the scale of evidence, and are now, by common con-
sent, stampf.d with deception and infamy. Yet their votaries
o;9; ized byGoogle
218
claimed for their idols, nothing less, and nothin-; more, m
attributes, than are no'Y claimed for this most impious de-
ception, called Animal Magnetism. You cannot have for-
gotten Perkin's metalic tractors, or Miss Rachel Baker's au-
guries ; they both lived in your day, ranked with Animal
Magnetism, and both, by a due analysis of evidences, are
now, by common consent, branded with deception and infa-
my. The votaries of ''trance," at camp meeting, claim
for it "clairvoyance'' equ:~lly omniscient with that claimecl
for Animal Magnetism; and yet all men of sound sense, knoto
that it is a delusion. As that phenomenon still has believers,
and is mentioned in my work, I will give you the key to un-
lock it Should it ever be your fortur.e to see the " en-
tranced'' and to be" clothed with the power of !Cl"'her..Df
exclusive company," seat yourself by her sidE>, take one of
her wrists in each of your hands, (their limbs are usually
stiff,) pretend that you are a believer, and trying to see if
you can bring her right hand to her face; try the right hanil
gently for a dozen or more times, you will find the arm stiff
a:1d immoveable ; then suddenly· and unexpected to her,
you may bring the left hand to the face ; such is a true key,
which I warrant will lead you to the arcanttm of her "clair-
voyance.
Witchcraft, which has left a stain of blood on the historic
· page~of our own country, is now, by common consent, and
in your own mind, stamped with "infamous dtlusion." Yet
it·never had more, and it never claimed less, than is now
claimed for the science of Animal Magnetism.
It is but three years since, that the newspapers of'the
country were teeming with the "marvellous clairvoyant
powers, of Mi~~ Jane C. Rider, a natural somnambulish" of
.219
Springfield, Mass. In chapter one, I have ·given an extract
from Dr. Belden's book, to show the powers attributed to
her. Most persons read the marvellous s~ories related of
her, and thousands believed, and still continue to believe
them. I never saw the parties, but from ihe honest and
sincere description by Dr. Belden, a poor infatuated man,
like yourself, I will give ·you a key to unlock her most simple
deception. She read cards, and read letters; she even wrote
one in her somnambulic sleep, and it occupies more than a
page of the book referred to. Thousands went to see her,
and like yourself, prepared to see a miracle ; they returned
with a belief that she really possessed " clairvoyance," with
invisible eyes, and supernatural powers. The book contains
letters from Hon. Wm. B. Calhoun, Rev. W. B. 0. Pea-
body, Dr. John Stone and Dr. Baker, vouching for the
truth of her miraculous deeds, and to this day, the secret of
her deception, I have cause to believe, lies locked in Miss
Rider's breast, and mine. It is so extremely simple, that I
never discovered it until experimenting in your idol, Animal
Magnetism. As she may again resume her "paroxiims," I
will give you her mysterious key, which may open your eyes,
when you shall be '' cloth~d with the power of Jr::F"her..DI
exclu.s.ive company." She always complained of tbe.light,
and was blindfolded with ahandkerchief, when she, or any
one else, can see and read at the epigastrium ; try yourself,
with even half a dozen handkerchiefs, ·and even put cotton
batts beneath ; if they do not touch the nose so much the
better, and then, I warrant you will have "invisible eyes and
clairvoyence;'' tDithout the" will" of the Animal Magnetizer.•
• EJ:uacts from Dr. Belden's book. "Her eyes are 10 aensiblc to the light, tbll abe
Jn'f8rlablf su1fen when abe goea abroad In a elelir day wltbont a •~" P.,e 31.
"Bcr~J'tlfl were aene1all7 elo.e., but al elm.. tbeJ wen etrelebed wld~ly opera, Uld
• Digitized by Goog[e
...
••
t....
rlllll
.220
This •imple itnposition has deceived thousands. .Dr. Belden,
like yourself, devotes several pages to prove the " ~mpossi~
bility of deception,'' on the part of his prophetess, and then,
poor deluded man, he devotes chapters on the causes and
phenomena of sleep, with a dissertation on metaphysics ;
subjects which he knows nothing about, and clothei! his im·
aginings in language which no reader can understand ; yet
the world must be pestered with his book, like the nauseating
ofrspring of your own brain, another ''vomit in the lap" of.
the community. ,
The first information I received of your delusion, was from
reading the article in the Commercial* of Sept. 4th. I was
then in Providence ; on niy arl'ival in New York, I called at
your office to undecei~e you. You had been a friend t~ me,
and I hoped in turn to befriend you, I gave you enough to
understand that I could prove the whole was a deception.
I asked for the letter which the pretended blind girl had read,
and told you I would explain how any one could read it.
You excused yourself from talking further, for want of time,
but said you was going to Providence, and on your return
I should see it. .
tho pupil ~as then very eon•idcrabl~ dilated. These different statea ofthe eye, aeemed
to occasion no difference in the power of aeeing.'' Page 44.
" In the da.r timo she always had the eyea covered with a bandago daring the paro.z.
lama; nor would she allow it to be remo.-ed for a single moment." Page 45.
" I do not know that she e.-or read cards which ahe load ,...,., aun, when only the
bKk was preoented to her.'' Page 56
" A pe,....n standing benind her, Yery carefully interpoaed a piece of brown paper be-
twedn her eyeo and the paper on which ohe wao writing. Whenever thia wao done aha
appeared diaturbed, and e.zclaimed" d<m't, doll'I!' "A watch wu preaented to her, the
face of whieb. wao concealed by a piece of brown paper placed between It and the
ehryatat IAalead of telliD1 the lime, ahe obaened, "OfiJI w.., bvl o p.,- 10atcA.''
~~ .
• Vide •llapter I•.
oig•tize<i by Google
221
Qn your return, Monday, 11th· Sept., I called at your
office, when }'ou sho·.vc d me the letter ; can I ~ause you to
blush, when I describe it? A letter folded K1 the usual and
most careless form; the inner enges of the folds not meeting
within one ·inch, and on the head where one seal is alway:s
placed, and where one is quite enough, you had placed five !
· on each side where at least five wet~ necessary to prevent
seeing inside, you had but on'e seal! shall I describe the
tonversaticn at that time?. The five seals \vere unbroken,
' hut tl;e ;;eal at each side was broken, as you said, by yourself.
As I held the letter up to the window, and kept the broken
seal closed with my thumb and finger, I said to you, " Col.
there are .two words ''hich I can see at this distance,'' (two
feet off,) and while holding the seal I opened the folds, say-
ing, " there are three more words that I can see;" and turn-
ir:g it over,·" there are several more, Col., , hich can be read
without breaking a seal, and if you will fold another letter
·just like this, I will read any sentence you may write in it
while I am awake;" you answered, " then I should tcant the
privilege oj putting your eyes out, for she is blind.'·' "Are
you sure she is blind ?" " Yes, she is perfectly blind, that is
well known, and more than fifty respectable people in Provi-
dence will vouch for i'-" " Col., she is not blind,'' and
then I e:xplained to you how my theory had elicited the con-
fession, '' I can distinguish objects very well,'' in her own
words, at which you answered, "well, I know she can dis-
tinguish a faint outline of objects tohen held up to the light;
but they don't believe yo.ur theory in Providence."
" I should think that they would not, for I don't believe
·it myself, but some of the professors, at least, believe it, and
by the theory I will prove that Miss Brackett can see· "'ery
veU.''
Digitized by Goog[e
-d. ~
During that conversation, I requested you tt wri~ to Mi'-;
Covil, of Troy, for his letter which I offer'ed AIStJ to explain
if it could be procured ; you declined and pro.Posed'for me
to call personally on him at Troy. Having other busine~s of
importance, I could not make the tour, and I wrote to him,
stating .jf he would send me the.letter, •with a desc~;i.ption of
the circumstances connected with it, as far as he knew: lthat
I would explain the mystery of r~ading it ; but he ~as neyer
returned me an answer, probably for fear that I wo~ld :un<le:-
ceive him.
The true key to all Miss Brackett told you is this, You
supposed she was deaf, and you talked over freely and lotidTy• •
in her hearing what you wanted her to answer ; and you being
infatuated with the doctrine, put leading quesdons to her,
without being conscious of it yourself. W~n·'Sc:J" " she
. .~
rose with offended dignity, and walked towards the door".J:::JS
it was to shift the·cotton behind her spectacles ! so she could
describe the things held over her head. The key to her
reading of your letter is this:-Dr. Capron magnetized her
for a whole night, and gave her the letter to read. 'fhile in
bed, she looked into the sides, where there is but one seal,
and made known the contents in the morning. . This fact is
knoton to you; for in Hartshorn's translation of Deleuze, he
says she "took it to bed with her.. " Hartshorn's work was
published-no, "vomited "~on the 6th of September, and
you have a copy of it in your possession.
What would you think of the man who twoul.d put a patent
combination lock on his barn door, when it was hung with.
--- ..- - ---------:---
• "I here suJ!gested to the doctor, that he ohould IU!k her wheiber abe saw a fruit
piece." Colonel Stone'sleuers to Dr. Brigha.m, page 41--42.
" 0.\ yes," was tile reply." Q..ere-eouU you MtJr a loud IIM!f!:e•tion If you fei1J1e4
lleep 1 JI:J-11 0.\ yer."....()l
0 .
.
Digitized by Goog[e
leather hinges ? Or would you not call him a fool, who,
h~ving two·&«'nt doors, would, to guard against rGbbers, un•
binge o'ne, to redouble the strength of the other ? Yet you
abowed less '~·isdom in the manner of sealing the letter.
You, Colonel Stone, have done much to entitle you to the
thanks o( a nation. You have fearlessly and effectually stood
forth ,to defend an· injured and persecuted sect, from the vile
asp,ersion~ of a most infamous wretch : you have laid hare her
io;Jpositio11s, and disarmed an unholy prejudice of power, to
sting by arrows secretly poiscned with malicious falsehoods ;
but your good works cannot justify you in e\'il. You have
· no\v kindled a decepti,·e torch, 11nd your virtues adJ fuel to
the flame : your character let;ds radiance to the t;llsc light,
and thousanils now strand on the rocks of d elu~ion, \rho, if
left to the~ own glimmer of reason, would have p~ssed in
safety the shoal of infatuation. I am accos:ed hy friends at
every turn of the street, with, " Durant, have you read Col.
Stone's pamphlet?'' "I thought you told us there m1s nothing
in Animal Magnetism; there must be something in it: if true,
it mus ~ overturn all present laws in society.'' '' Colonel
Stone is a believer in it, and he would not be led away with
a false doctrine.''
In vain I have said to all, there is nothing in it, and Colonel
Stone cannot believe sueh a simple and false rloctrine. I
have facts that must put it down, and I h:l\'e told Colonel
Stone that I had detected the dere[1tion ; I am prep:1ring my
evidence for the wt>rld, and it is not pogsible for Animal Mag-
.netism to exist any longer in any civilized country~ under the
proofs that I will give of its deceptions. But I am answer-
ed in turn, " would to heaven yon could succeed ; but what
can you do ? The government of France has reported for-
•
Digitized by Googie
........-
224
mally against it-the Pari; Medical Academy, after five ,years
iQvestigation, reported against it-thousands of. writers have
appeared in the journals against it ;-but they have not been
able to subdue it.· The doctriue is so strange, and the.effects
are so supernatural, that I could not beli~ve it ; it claims.om-
niscien~e in attribute, and is too impious to believe: but Mr.
Durant, there must be something in it, for Colonel Stone is a
confirmed convert to· the dpctrine, and I .must believe. there
is som~thing in it. True, he is cautious in expressing belief,
but his caution adds \\'eight to his belief : he is a pious and
cautious man,onnd he does not wish to tell more than l1e knows.
He say3 "she was in rt deep cmd profound slumber, insenyible,
as toe ascertained by r.xperiment, alike to the l:lw:h anrl the
t~oices rif all present." He says that'' the patient is blind,
her e~·elit!s nw1·eover tcere entirely closed;" and he sap, " the
fact of seeing the pictures was tested in every way;" he 'nys,
"tee satisfed (Jttrselces of the wonderful powe; nf vision, u ith-
out the !IS ' tf viswzl organs;" he ~ays, " she ca" hear noth-
ing addressed to her by any one else tlran the person in mag-
netic cnmmtm icati(;n, and 11ot even him, if he diretls his con-
tJersatinn to any but herself;'' he snys, in rcp!y to the pic-
ture, "thi.~ reply V'as astounding.'' The fact seems nt.l only
increrliblt~, but abst.[utely impossible, but, as I lclin·e, it i8
neverthclrss true. And again, Col. Stone sap, '' I hm1
e
already said repeatedly, tl!at the characters of all the partie1
fo1·bids the idea of fraud, collusion, or imposture," and
"u:hrtt I smo, I kno1o to le true," and " I ttill n.nt, therefore,
distrtt.
Yt the evidence of my oton senses, when all the circum-
stances tcere such as to render deception impossible !!!" He
is not rredulou~; Col. Stone is intelligent, his veracity is un-
doubted, and I must therefore begin lO belie\·e this strange
Digitized by Goog[e
~6c\rlne; yet its tenets seerns a sahilege, and its works the
destruction o(society. I fear your evidences, Mr. Durant,
cannot weigh. against the assertions and character of Col.
Stone, and the thousand other eminent men, who have em-
brlll!ed .the doctrine, but if you think you can prove that it is
a delusion, why longer delay ? each hour adds new victims
to the infatu~ion; try what you can do to suppress it, ana
may heaven grant you success."
•
It is but yesterday that such conversation was addressed
to me by a man, eminent in piety and virtue, a learned and
intelligent friend; and such conversations are frequent, where-
ever your letter to Dr. Brigham has ~een read.
What deplorable consequences must ensue if I should sup-
press the facts contained in this book, and allow the delusion,
by your aid, to go on claiming its victims. The very report
from the Paris Academy, is used in this country to establish
the false doctrine. But Animal Magnetism, by this bl~w,
can no longer iriumph ; it is not possible for it to survive
the withering blast which these pages will send it ; I have
given too many evidences of its deception_; no woman who
reads this book, can hereafter be a magnetic somnambulist. X
She will feel and know, that each child in the room sees her
'
· deception; her guilty conscience will not allow her to feign
another sleep, or if she should yet try to imitate sleep, the
explanations herein contained, will enable even l~you, the
infatuated Col. Wm. L. Stooe..OI to see the nakedness of
her unholy deceptions.
Digitized by Goog[e
---
