{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__epps___internal_evidences_of_christianity_deduced_from_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Internal Evidences Of Christianity Deduced From Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
INTERNAL EVIDENCES
CHRISTIANITY
DEDUCED FROM
PHRENOLOGY.
By JOHN EPPS, M. D.,
Member of the Edinburgh Phrenological Society ; Member of the
Anthropological Society ; Lecturer on Chemistry, Materia Medica,
and Botany, at the Westminster Dispensary ; President of the
Finsbury Discussion Society ; Honorary Member of the Liverpool
Mechanics Institution, &c. &c
WITH A PREFACE AND NOTES
BY
JOSEPH A. WARNE, A.M.
BOSTON :
PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM PEIRCE.
1837.
Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1837, by William
Peirce, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Dis-
trict of Massachusetts.
Cambridge Press
.
Metcalf, Torry, and Ballon.
NOTICE TO THE SECOND EDITION.
The first edition of this work was pub-
lished in Edinburgh, in the year 1827.
I was at that time pursuing my medical
studies in the University of Edinburgh,
and was twenty-one years of age. It was
published under the title, " Internal
Evidences of Christianity deduced from
Phrenology, by Medictts, Member of the
Edinburgh Phrenological Society." I
need not mention the organs that were
active in making me use Medicus instead
of my own name.
These particulars regarding myself, I
record not from any desire to write about
myself, but merely to form a preface to
the following remarks, that I have not, on
reperusing the work, found any reason to
alter any essential part of the work, either
in reference to the arguments or the illus-
trations.
This may appear strange to many ; it
did at first sight to myself. Considering
the great variety of views that must pass
before the mind, in the period of life the
most critical of all, at least to a profes-
IV
sional man, from twenty-one to thirty-
one; considering the great influence of
circumstances which must occur during
such a period, and considering the expan-
sion of views that a period of nine years
must produce in any person who is not
cased in prejudice, I thought that in re-
perusing the work, I should find some
change. I have not ; and this appears to
me a strong evidence of the clearness of
view which Phrenology affords to those
who cultivate acquaintance wT
ith its de-
tails.
I feel no inconsiderable pleasure in
presenting this second edition to the pub-
lic, more particularly as I believe that
/ was the first who directed Phrenology..
into the channel of bearing testimony to
the truth of Christianity ; and, also, be-
cause I know that this book has been
earnestly sought after by many, and that
it will be reprinted in America as soon as
the sheets arrive in that country.
Wishing you, reader, the "same pleasure
in perusing that I had in writing,
I remain your obedient servant,
JOHN EPPS, M.D.
London, February 15, 1836.
EDITOR'S PREFACE.
The fears of the religious, among men,
and the desires and hopes of the irreli-
gious, operate unitedly to prevent the
progress of truth. The former dread the
introduction of anything new, lest it
should unsettle the foundations of reli-
gious faith; for these fears are, often, not
sufficiently enlightened to perceive, that
all truths are in harmony ; and that, there-
fore, a newly discovered truth cannot,
really, be inimical to those of more ancient
date, nor incompatible with them. The
latter are ill at ease in their irreligion,
because they are not assured of its safety ;
and these desire the disproof of the pre-
tensions of real religion, and welcome
VI
almost every novelty, having a bearing on
religion and morality, in the hope that
they may be shown to have no claim on
the regards of mankind.
It was thus that the discoveries of Gali-
leo, relative to the true system of Astron-
omy, operated. The unenlightened reli-
gious fears of his contemporaries were
alarmed ; and his judges determined that
his doctrines were heretical, false, and
absurd, being contrary to the express
language of Holy Scripture. But the
irreligious of his day, and indeed of every
period since, have been ready, (at least
the more enlightened of them,) to believe
his doctrines true, because they supposed,
that if this were admitted, the earth
would be reduced to so mere a speck
in creation, that it would derogate from
the dignity of the Creator, to suppose him
so to regard it, and the interests of its
inhabitants, as the Volume of Revelation
declares that he does; — they seem to
VI
1
have supposed that the Copernican Sys-
tem of Astronomy being the true one, it
follows that men are the inhabitants of
" a forsaken and fatherless world." More
perfect knowledge, however, has shown
to investigators, both religious and irre-
ligious, that their fears and hopes were,
alike, unfounded ; and that there is no
discordance between the discoveries of
astronomical science and the disclosures
of the Christian Revelation.
The same fears and hopes prevailed,
though in somewhat different classes of
persons, relative to the effects to be pro-
duced, on the prevalent orthodox Chris-
tianity, by the labors of the German
critics : —critics, that is, of the Rational
School. They had brought a prodigious
amount of unsanctified learning and tal-
ent to the investigation of the Sacred
volume ; in some respects, perhaps, they
had disabused the confidence of men, as
to the true import of passages, supposed
Vlll
to be of vital importance to the establish-
ment of Orthodox opinions, and hastily
presumed that Exegesis was destined to
effect the overthrow of evangelical reli-
gion. Spirits, kindred to those of the
Rationalists, —not in vigor or attain-
ments, but in irreligion and self-compla-
cent pretensions, —both in this country,
and in England, caught the echoes of this
faintly expressed presumption, and swell-
ed them into a paean of premature praise
of Exegesis, as the annihilator of Ortho-
doxy.
So strong was the confidence they felt,
or, at least, so unhesitating was the ex-
pression of it, that the friends of Evan-
gelical Religion were, in a measure, stun-
ned and bewildered. They were, per-
haps, secretly afraid of Exegetical interr
pretation ; and approached it tremblingly.
They were, however, somewhat embolden-
ed, by the discovery, that there were
certain, among the German critics them-
IX
selves, who held fast their evangelical
opinions ; and contended that a sound
exegesis was friendly to evangelical
truth.
Much time had not elapsed, before it
was discovered that exegesis furnished
weapons for the war in behalf of truth
;
and she thus came to be hailed as an ally,
instead of being hated as a foe. The
lion was bearded in his den, and the des
tined prey plucked from between his
teeth. In testimony of this, the very
names of Heno;stenburg, Hug, Xeander,
and Tholuck are sufficient. At the pres-
ent time, therefore, in all our theological
institutions, Sacred Criticism receives a
very large portion of attention; and the
principal ground for apprehension appears
to be, lest our ministers, in their confi-
dence in the power of theological learning,
to lead them into the signification of the
Sacred Oracles, should overlook the indis-
pensableness of Divine illumination, in
b
order to their understanding what is the
mind of the Spirit.
Fears and hopes have, in like manner,
divided almost all who have given a little
attention to the science of Phrenology.
The irreligious have hoped to find it true ;
because they concluded, that, this being
once established, it would follow that man
was only material and mortal ; and that,
of course, the revelations of the Volume
of Inspiration were fictions, and fit only
to delude and frighten children and idiots.
The religious, on the contrary, taking it
for granted that such (of the opposite
class) as cherished the hopes just express-
ed, were correctly informed of the nature
and tendencies of the science, were afraid
to examine it for themselves. They knew
that Revelation was of God; and hearing,
from those, whom they supposed fully
acquainted with the subject, that Phre-
nology was at variance with Revelation,
they joined in the hue and cry — " Fatal-
XI
ism, Materialism/' &c. — regarding Phre-
nology as the natural enemy of Christian-
ity.
So loud and clamorous was the outcry,
that a very long period elapsed before
Christians, whose "law condemns no man
before it hears him," who are commanded
to " prove all things, and hold fast that
which is good," would even allow Phre-
nology to plead her cause at the tribunal
of their judgment. After a while, how-
ever, her advocates appeared. In 1824
the publication of the u Edinburgh Phre-
nological Journal" was commenced; and,
some of the Scottish Phrenologists being
evangelical Christians, its pages soon be-
gan to reply to the accusations respecting
the tendencies of Phrenology. It was
shown that Phrenology leaves Materialism
exactly where it was, before the existence
of Phrenology ; and that, as regards
Fatalism, supposing the doctrines of Phre-
nology to be true, it does not inflict ne-
Xll
cessity of action, nor destroy the doctrine
of accountability. Some writers in that
journal even went so far as to analyze,
phrenologically, some fundamental doc-
trines of revealed religion ; especially
that of Regeneration ; and thus to prove
that Phrenology is not inimical to Reli-
gion.
About the year 1826 the writer of the
following work, then quite a young man,
but a well instructed phrenologist, and
withal, an intelligent and devoted Chris-
tian, ventured to appear before the public,
in an independent work, entitled, " Inter-
nal Evidences of Christianity deduced
from Phrenology." He appears to have
been the first to perceive, or at least to
declare, that Phrenology, so far from hos-
tility to religion, casts an aspect of friend-
liness towards it ; and that weapons, in
defence of religion, may be borrowed
from the arsenal of Phrenology. It is
somewhat strange, that the first edition
Xlll
of that work never found its way to this
country; — nor was even its title known,
until another work of the author was re-
published here, (Horas Phrenologicae,) in
which a reference is made to it. The
publication of the last mentioned work
was the occasion of a correspondence
being commenced, between the Author of
this work and the Editor ; the conse-
quence of which was, the transmission of
the proofs of a new edition of the work
for publication.
The first work published in this coun-
try, distinctly recognising both Phrenolo-
gy, and the distinguishing peculiarities
of evangelical religion, was the "Horse
Phrenologicee" of Dr. Epps. He stands,
therefore, so far as the writer knows, the
first man in both the old and new worlds,
who, in a separate work, brings Phrenolo-
gy and Religion, at once, into view.
But his Horse Phrenologicae has been
scarcely read at all ; at least, by the evan-
61
XIV
gelical portion of the community, for the
following reason. The sentiments of the
author do not appear alone: —Notes, at
variance with the very foundations of
evangelical religion, have been added, by
the American Editor ; wT
hose name has
operated with such persons, (I say not
how justly,) to prevent the perusal of the
work ; and it is, to this day, generally
unknown, that so evangelical a phreno-
logical work exists. It is hoped, how-
ever, that, at no distant period, it may
appear from the American press, totally
free from any admixture; or, at least,
from any which wT
ill contravene the au-
thor's views.
Soon after the publication of the " Hora
Phrenologies," an enlarged edition of
Mr. George Combe's work, on " The Con-
stitution of Man," was issued from the
press ; with an additional chapter, " On
the Harmony between Phrenology and
Revelation." Of this chapter no notice
XV
would here be taken, were it not that the
writer is desirous of expressing the pleas-
ure it affords him, to find that the views
expressed in it, so exactly harmonize with
those given by Dr. Epps in the following
work. It is true, that the field laid out by
Dr. Epps is more general, than that pre-
sented in the chapter appended to the
" Constitution of Man 5
" but an attentive
perusal of both will convince the reader,
that, in so far as Dr. Epps has directed
his remarks, specifically, to the subject of
that chapter, there is perfect harmony, at
least, not to say perfect coincidence of
views. This coincidence is especially
gratifying to the writer, not merely (nor
chiefly) because he finds himself in so
good company; (though he will not pre-
tend to be insensible to gratification from
this source;) but because the indepen-
dent views of two writers, who had never
corresponded, but who, both, were famil-
iar with the two subjects, Phrenology and
62
XVI
Christianity, are found exactly to agree
;
and thus, in the fact of their agreement,
to furnish an evidence of the truth of the
position which each, separately, labored
to establish ; for it is a law of evidence
that the agreement of two or more inde-
pendent witnesses confirms the truth, to
which they testify, in a much greater
degree, than that in which their numbers
are increased.
*
But it may perhaps be said, if the harmo-
ny of Phrenology with Religion be estab-
lished, in a work already before the
public, land if this subject comes into
prominence in Dr. Epps's new work, why
introduce that to the notice of the world ?
Is it not a work of supererogation ?
We answer, it is not. In the first place,
the subject of the following work is more
general, and comprehensive, than that of
the additional chapter in Combe. And,
* Gambier's Moral Evidence.
XVII
secondly, the work of Dr. Epps is valua-
ble, for its able supply of what was want-
ing, on the subject of Internal Evidences
of Christianity. What was wanting, he
has clearly showr
n, in his own Introduc-
tion, and therefore it need not be repeat-
ed here. It may suffice to say, that
Butler had only rendered pointless the
dart which infidel objectors shook at the
heart of Revealed Religion, by showing
the incomprehensibleness of many opera-
tions of nature : and though Erskine had
gone a step farther, even his work on
Internal Evidences is seen, on examina-
tion, to be incomplete and unsatisfactory.
To be complete and conclusive, it must be
proved, and not assumed, that man is so
constituted, as that the volume of revela-
tion is adapted to his nature and condi-
tion ; and thus, that what is so adapted
to his nature, must have the same author,
as that nature itself. To illustrate this
position ; if, in examining a machine, our
63
XV111
attention is arrested by a female screw,
our first impression is, that it has a cer-
tain capacity; that the thread is of a
certain shape, (square or otherwise,) and
that it is coiled in a certain direction, and
at certain regular intervals, &c. Now if,
in the process of our examination, we
discover a male screw, which is in all
respects the exact converse of this, so that
the worm in the one, exactly fills the
channel in the other, we are almost com-
pelled to ascribe the device and construc-
tion of both to the same mechanician ;
and to conclude, certainly, that the former
was intended to receive the latter; be-
cause it is exactly adapted to it. There is
"internal evidence 55
in both of adapta-
tion, each to the other.
Now this is what Dr. Epps has done.
He has shown that Phrenology has proved
human nature to be such, as that it is
adapted to receive the Christian Revela-
tion ; and the Christian Revelation he has
XIX
shown to be such, as meets all the exigen-
cies of human nature ; and then concludes,
as logically as a man would, with relation
to the two screws, that both human na-
ture and the Christian Revelation are the
works of the same divine hand.
In proving this, he has done a valuable
service to the cause of truth: for it will
soon be seen, by those enemies to revela-
tion who hold the truth of Phrenology, that,
to be consistent, they must abandon it, or
embrace Revelation. And, moreover, the
friends of Revelation will be emboldened
to examine the pretensions of what is so
valuable an ally in the war with error ;
and, wresting the legitimate weapons of
truth from the hands of the advocates of
error and irreligion, turn their glittering
points toward their own bosoms. It is
the hope that these results may follow,
which prompts the Editor to present to
the American public the work on the
Phrenological Evidences of Christianity ;
XX
and he trusts it may be the means of
hastening the time, when an anticipation
of the Author shall be realized; that, " in
a few years, when intellectualized Chris-
tians shall be more common, such will be
the diligent use that will be made of
Phrenology, that infidelity will throw up
the system, as one which cannot exist in
coincidence with itself/' — (Preface to
Horae Phrenologicae.)
Nor will the rejection of Phrenology be
confined to avowed infidels : it will prob-
ably extend to all religionists, whose
creeds do not correspond with the plain
and obvious import of the sacred page.
For, if it shall be found that Phrenology
establishes the truth of Revelation in its
plain and obvious meaning ; then those,
whose creeds are at variance with that
meaning, will be reduced to the dilemma
of either embracing that, as its true mean-
ing, or of rejecting the system which re-
duces them to this necessity. Which will
XXI
be the most likely of the two, will scarce-
ly be questioned by those, who are ac-
quainted with the native enmity of the
human heart to truth and righteousness.
It will then no longer be said, as it has
been, and is, even now, sometimes said,
that the disciples of Phrenology, and
writers on the science, and even the pub-
lishers of their works, are " deniers of
the Lord that bought them ;
" and of
those Eternal Retributions, which he has
denounced. Such language, even now,
reflects no credit on either the knowledge
or the candor of those who employ it
More extensive knowledge would have
shown them, that phrenologists and phre-
nological writers are not all of the char-
acter above given of them : and more
christian candor would have prevented
their condemning the science as unworthy
of attention, because of the theological
errors of its votaries. It were scarcely
philosophical to denounce the Vaccine
XX11
Innoculation, because its illustrious dis-
coverer was a Quaker ; or to disprove the
Copernican System of Astronomy., from
the fact, that both its author and its
reviver, Galileo, were Papists. This,
surely, is to revive the old, and, we had
hoped, exploded inquiry, " Can any good
thing come out of Nazareth ? " and, be-
fore examining the truth of a system, to
ask, " Have any of the rulers believed ?
"
The American Public, and the American
Christian Public, especially, will rather
ask, Is it true ? and will follow truth
wherever it may lead; being assured that
all truth is of God ; and that no truth
will lead from God.
CONTENTS.
PREFACE.
General Perversion of the Gifts of God —The Christian's
Duty — Butler's, Erskine's, Chalmers's, Dick's, and
Douglas's Labors —The Train of Thought giving
rise to this Dissertation — Difficulties in the way —
Two Objections considered : first, Phrenology opposed
to Religion; secondly, Phrenology not advocated by
great men — Phrenology asserted to be true —Objec-
tion against this and other applications of this Science
— Conclusion by an extract from Balguy — Thanks
expressed to Mr. Sleigh and Mr. Combe.
Doubts overcome — Necessity of pointing out the Nature
and Deficiencies of other arguments, in order to show
the Novelty of the present — Most of the arguments
reducible into three classes — Their insufficiency —
Two other arguments — The misapplication of Butler's
— The defects of Erskine's — Phrenology supplies
these Deficiencies — Objection, that experience is
equally good as Phrenological demonstration, consider-
ed — Three points in which all Religions agree —
XXIV
Christianity considered with respect to these may be
ranged into two grand divisions, forming the founda-
tions of two separate arguments.
PART I
.
Argument 1st — General Character of God proved to be
conformable and approved of by our Faculties — Propo3.
I. That max is so constituted as to be cox-
strained TO WORSHIP SOME BEING Tbis, tO
some persons, self-evident — Opinions of mankind —
Cicero, Seneca, the Greeks — Two objections urged
by skeptics against this proposition — First, No cause
to believe in a Superior Existence — Paley's Natural
Theology — Deficiency in this argument according to
the Infidel — Man, no Reason — Difficulties in proving
he has — Phrenology demonstrates the Point — Second
objection, That, allowing a Superior Power to exist, no
reason for worshipping Him — Difficulty to convince
the Infidel that his explanation of facts is wrong —
Phrenology sets aside the objection — Nature of Ven-
eration — Necessity of Directing faculties — Propos. II.
That man is endowed with certain facul-
ties ENABLING HIM TO DECIDE UPON THE OB-
JECT TO BE WORSHIPPED.
Propos. III. That this must be such as the
FACULTIES, UNBIASSED, APPROVE OF.
Propos. IV. That'the God of Christianity is
the only such being — Faculties demonstrated
XXV
by Phrenology —Their language unvarying — Poly-
theism condemned by them — Also the Grecian and
Roman Gods — Also the Gods of the Philosophers —
Also the Gods of the Deists —The God of Christianity
approved of — Conclusion — That this is the God of our
Nature.
PART II.
Fact, that Men have never Chosen the God of Christiani-
ty, explained in reference to the Particular Character
of God, as exhibited in the Means to obtain and Pre-
serve His Favor.
Propos. V. That man can do nothing good in
THE SIGHT OF GOD, AND THAT CHRISTIANITY
recognises this inability — Some general Ob-
liquity of sentiment — Alienation of the Mind from
God — The nature of this Alienation Recognised by
Christianity — The nature of Virtue as made known
by Phrenology — Illustrated by Scripture — The
Striking Nature of the Coincidence — Can do nothing
Acceptable or Good on account of this Alienation of
Mind — The Doctrine of Necessity — Term Explain-
ed — Doctrine established by Phrenology — The bear-
ings of this Doctrine on the Question.
Propos. VI. That the means to be employed to
obtain and preserve God's favor are in
conformity to the character of man as
necessarily evil — What needed bv Man —The
XXVI
Christian Method of Reconciliation — Belief of a Tes-
timony; The Effect of this Belief —The Preserving
of God's Favor ; Motives thereto — Enemies Opposing ;
The Means for Resistance; Threefold — Himself his
own Enemy: Enemies Without — 1st, The World —
Why so — Nature of the Enmity; 2d, The Devil;
His Character — Means of Resistance threefold — 1st,
Precepts — Love to Christians — Adhesiveness, its Ef-
fects — A Christian Church — The Strength gained by
Communion — Individual Precepts Directing Individ-
ual Faculties — Remarks on the Nature of the Pre-
cepts and the Way of Reception — Difficulty, that
Men have Different Judgments, considered — 2d, Ex-
ample, its influence; The Faculties it appeals to —
3d, Rewards and Punishments — Difference between
Divine and Human Governments — Faculties appealed
to; the Power of the Combined Means; Contrasted
with that of Philosophy — Some Examples of their Effi-
caciousness — Conclusion — Some Concluding Remarks
on the Necessity of Worshipping with the Intellect —
On the Importance and Necessity of the Christian ex-
hibiting the Effects of Belief — The Objection that
Professing Christians are oftentimes very Bad Men —
Finally, The Privileges of the Christian in Life but
particularly in Death.
PREFACE
Wisdom, that will be proved in the course of
the following argument to be divine, has asserted,
that God made man upright, but he has sought
out many inventions. These, from the corrup-
tion of his nature, have, in general, been such
as to increase the many and oppressive evils
connected with the fall ; and even those which
were good in themselves, have, from the sad
perversity, been turned to evil by their misdi-
rection. The gifts of Providence, matters quite
independent of man, have been grossly abused ;
the means of sustenance to his body he has
rendered the destroyers of his frame; and those
intended for the nourishment of his mind have
been so used as to produce, not a veneration
1
for the Author of his understanding, but an
impious disbelief of that Being's existence ; or,
if not of that, a disregard for His testimony,
verifying the truth of another assertion of wis-
dom, " knowledge puffeth up." In fine, intel-
lectual and bodily strength have been, are, and,
it is likely, will be, exerted in ways contrary
to that relationship in which every man stands
to God, as the moral Governor of the universe.
So that the same Being had said with truth,
" Though I have bound and strengthened their
arms, yet do they imagine mischief against
me." Hosea vii. 15.
In the midst of this general perversion of
what is good, and of defection from God, the
Author of good, the Christian is bound to come
forward, and manfully endeavour, in humble
dependence upon his Creator, to direct the
gifts of Providence, and the many useful inven-
tions and discoveries of man, into proper
channels; thereby bringing back all matters to
their source, and making every gift, every in-
vention, to show forth God's glory.
Within the last century, as well as in the
present, many are the powerful intellectual
energies which have been exercised in deliver-
ing science from the thraldom of infidelity.
Many have come forward as champions in this
good cause ; and many a gauntlet has been
thrown down by the heroes of truth, which, as
yet, no skeptic warrior has succeeded in trium-
phantly raising. Need I instance a Butler, a
Watson, a Paley, a Sherlock, a Littleton, a
Wardlaw, a Haldane ; men who have made
history, natural philosophy, and every branch
of metaphysical science, so far as consistent
with truth, speak to the honor and glory of the
God of nature and of grace ? And, among the
many laborers in the vineyard of late years, in
which it may truly be said, " the harvest is
plenteous," Dick and Douglas hold preeminent
places ; the former having shown how all true
science leads to its Author ; the latter, how
every species of knowledge may be made to
bear upon the diffusion of the true knowledge
of God.
Many of the names mentioned will be recog-
nised as those of men who have exercised their
faculties in one of the most important direc-
tions, namely, in demonstrating the evidences
of Christianity. Butler has shown the folly of
disbelieving facts and doctrines, stated in Scrip-
ture, on the account that we cannot understand
them, by proving that many of the commonest
things in nature, perpetually presented to our
view, and others constantly recognised by con-
sciousness, are not known, and imperfectly, if
at all, understood, even by the wisest. Chalmers
has given us a view of the stable foundations
on which Christianity, as it regards its external
evidences, rests ; and, amongst the others,
Erskine has opened up a new field of investiga-
tion, in the attempt to demonstrate the truth
of Christianity by its internal evidences. He
has, in his own words, " analyzed the compo-
nent parts of the Christian scheme of doctrine
with reference to its bearings, both on the
character of God, and on the character of
man ;
" and this, in order to demonstrate, " that
its facts not only present an expressive exhibi-
tion of all the moral qualities which can be
conceived to reside in the divine mind, but also
contain all those objects which have a natural
tendency to excite and suggest in the human
mind that combination of moral feelings, called
moral perfection ; and that, as this object is one
suited to the character of God, the system hav-
ing this tendency must be of divine origin."
When reading Erskine, the author of the
following argument was induced to conclude,
that another illustrative view of the internal
evidences of Christianity might be founded
upon the constitution of the human mind. The
train of thought, leading to this conclusion,
was the following : It is with man that relig-
ion has to do. All the rest of animals, as well
as all the other parts of creation, show forth,
by a kind of necessity, the glory of God ; their
uses, wonderful contrivances, grandeur, vari-
ety, changes, the peculiar adaptations in their
constitution to their particular habits, speak a
silent language of praise to the Creator. But
man is endowed with a principle, concerning
the abstract nature of which there has been
much useless dispute, but which, instead of
going downwards like that of a beast, rises
upwards, and finds, as its resting-place, no other
than the Lord God, the Creator of heaven and
earth. Man has a mind, and this has been so
constituted, that God requires its willing and
joyful exercise in offering to Him a rational
worship. We find, that when man was first
created, this was the case. Adam's happiness
in Eden consisted in the enjoyment of God'f
1*
presence, and his pleasure was found in show-
ing forth his Creator's glory. But this happy
scene of things soon changed ; man fell — his
mind became enmity against God: and, instead
of being directed into the channel of showing
forth his Maker's glory, ran in the polluted
stream of evil imaginations, and that only, and
that continually. But God took pity upon his
miserable subject, and in the midst of wrath
at the violation of his covenant by his creature,
the Creator remembered mercy, and taught the
rebel man the way of obtaining favor. This
was gradually unveiled, until the fulness of
time came, when God sent his Son, made of a
woman, who delivered to his disciples precepts
durable for ever, and dictated to his apostles
those doctrines, exhortations, and admonitions,
all of which are collected in the New Testa-
ment, and all the preceding circumstances in
the Old ; both being comprised in the book
called, by way of eminence, " The Bible."
The Bible, then, it appears, contains the way
by which man can show forth the glory of God,
by performing with acceptance those duties
which he owes to his Maker; and provides
means by which his mind, from the corruption
of his nature, continually misdirected, may be
made to run in the channel of obedience to
God's will, its legitimate direction. To effect
this grand purpose (for the former is comprised
within the latter), it is evident that the Bible
must contain certain motives, having such a
powerful influence as to lead the mind from one
track into another, in which they will keep it,
and, in pursuing which, they cause the renewed
man to find pleasure. This, we shall discover,
is the case. Religion, then, is a system of
MOTIVES, AND THESE ARE, AND MUST BE, SUCH
AS WILL AFFECT THE HUMAN MIND. If, then,
we possess a correct knowledge of this mind ;
if we know its principles, its constituent parts,
on which the motives act, we shall be enabled
to deduce thence a series of tests probatory of
the position, that the Bible is the word of God.
How we are enabled to do this, depends upon
the following indisputable conclusion. If the
Bible comes from God, the Author of our
being, and if religion is a collection of motives
acting in a certain way upon the mind, con-
nected with this being, it is evident that these
motives must be suited thereto. If we find
that they, and no others, are suited to produce
s
the effects which Christianity recognises, we
have a right, indeed it is our imperative duty,
to infer, that the system containing these is
from the Author of our being. If not suited
thereto, the contrary inference must be the one
arrived at. These conclusions admit of no
dispute, for we may reasonably inquire, " He
that planteth the ear, shall he not hear ? He
that formed the eye, shall he not see ? He that
teacheth man knowledge, shall he not know ?
"
Psalm xciv. 9.
But here a difficulty presents itself — where
are we to meet with a correct system of the
human mind ? Till within these last few years,
a search for a true system of the human mind
among the ponderous volumes written upon the
subject, was as vain as that of the alchymists to
find out the philosopher's stone. Indeed, all
the systems of the mind, which have appeared,
are the results of the endeavours of some men
of mighty genius to bend the facts, discovered
by observation, to their peculiar pre-conceived
notions ; and, having taken these results for
principles, these individuals have endeavoured
to reduce all the varied manifestations of the
mind to them, as their first sources. They
have seated themselves in the judgment-hall of
their own consciousness, and have adopted its
decisions as the laws which regulate mental
phenomena; forgetting that other minds are not
constituted as their own, and trying to blot from
the page of memory, that one well-established
opposing fact overturns the validity of any sup-
posed universal law. Of late years, however, a
system of the human mind has been brought to
light, the principles of which are dependent upon
observations, whence, by the Baconian system
of induction, they have been patiently deduced.
Such is the phrenological, at least to those who
believe in it, and to such principally these
pages are addressed. However, to satisfy the
scruples of some who have not studied the
evidences on which Phrenology rests, (which
indeed, if studied, are sufficient to convince a
candid mind,) a few remarks will be made in
reply to some objections which are frequently
brought forward by good-meaning people ; both
by those who have a great respect for religion,
but who have, in some points, a zeal without
knowledge ; and those who care little about
things which are not recognised by any whom
they have been taught to consider " great men."
10
An objection frequently made by the former
class is, that Phrenology is opposed to religion.
To this, the argument contained in the follow-
ing pages is a sufficient reply ; and it may,
with truth, and the kindest feeling, be affirmed,
that the birth-place of this objection is igno-
rance. But strange to say, some, when told of
this application of the science, cried out against
it with unbecoming vehemence. These people
seem offended when any thing except the Bible
testifies to Bible truths. To object to Phre-
nology, on this account, is equally absurd as to
object to the works of God, because on the
page of nature, as well as on that of revelation,
the attribute of goodness is imprinted.
Another objection, made by the latter class,
is, " How is it that so many great men oppose
Phrenology ? " To this it might be replied,
that this is no argument against the science
;
since every man of strong common sense (a
possession, however, by Juvenal said to be
very rare) must be aware, that the question
necessary to be first decided in every inquiry
is, Is this truth or untruth? It may be re-
marked, in addition, that a respect for
authority is one of the greatest obstacles to
11
the obtaining of truth. The " ipse dixit " of
an ancient sage closed the eyes of observa-
tion for ages. This foolish reverence forbids
any originality of thought ; indeed, few are
fond of thinking, and are very happy that
others are willing to take the trouble out of
their hands. These people take all things
upon trust; they obey the dicta of a man
great respecting literary honors, with as much
deference as the subjects of the Ottoman
empire the commands issued by the Caliphate.
If they who urge this objection be such, and
it is to be feared they are, it is begged of them
to deliver themselves from this mental bondage,
and be free Britons, not only in respect to
their bodies, but also in relation to their minds.
The inveteracy of habit must be allowed to
have an influence on great as well as on little-
minded men. These persons have been long
used to one train of thinking. They conse-
quently find it difficult to adopt another ; and
as the acquisition of the system of mental
metaphysics has, it is likely, cost thern much
labor, their interest and self-esteem, and a
number of other motives, are roused to refuse
any aggressor entrance at the gate of their
12
mental territory, inveterate habit being the
door-keeper. No wonder, then, that Phrenol-
ogy, which threatens to overturn the ancient
building, reared at first by Aristotle, remod-
elled by Reid, partially altered again by
another, daubed over by another, embellished
by Dugald Stewart, and his admiring followers,
should be refused admission. In fine, it may
be inquired of the scientific men, what did
Galileo and other worthies suffer ? and, to the
Christian, the question may be applied, what
was the treatment that the holy and unblamable
life, and equally holy and unblamable opinions
of the Saviour met with from the enthusiasti-
cally zealous Scribes and Pharisees, and from
the philosophic Sadducees ?
In the following pages, therefore, Phrenology
is assumed to be a true system of the human
mind ; a postulate, which it is believed every
candid mind, upon a fair investigation of the
evidence, will be ready to allow. Let it be
remembered, however, that this is not consid-
ered by Phrenologists as a postulate, but a
truth, demonstrable by facts numerous as those
on which the principles of any other scientific
system are built. For the Phrenologist will find
13
no difficulty in proving that chemistry, botany,
natural history, or civil sciences, generally be-
lived in, have not evidences equally numerous
and indisputable, as grounds on which they are
established, or considered by their adherents to
be so.
These remarks may anticipate an objection,
which has frequently been made by persons
ignorant of these evidences, against the appli-
cation of Phrenology to matters of history, of
government, of literature, and of mind. They
think it wrong, that a science, according to
them not yet established, should be applied to
these subjects. In order to obviate this objec-
tion, and to remove the apprehensions of some
at the following employment of this science in
relation to Christianity, the truth must be
stated, that its principles rest upon no other
foundation than the solid rock of observation.
These have been accumulating for years, and
will continue to accumulate, till the human mind
has for ever ceased its functions ; a period when
neither Phrenology nor any other human sci-
ence will any longer be applicable. If, then,
we were to delay the application of the princi-
ples of Phrenology till the mighty structure be
2
14
completely reared, we should delay till the end
of time; for, till that period, the science will
be receiving accessions. Indeed, the applica-
tions serve to build the fabric quicker by enab-
ling its architects to bring supplies from every
quarry out of which the human mind has worked
materials ; and the readiness and the neatness,
with which the matters collected help to form
the fabric, show that the principles of the
science agree with those of nature, and its pro-
fessors to be skilful master builders. Yet some
people would have the Phrenologists delay.
These persons, however, do not argue thus
with respect to other sciences. Chemistry, the
present system is referred to, has been estab-
lished but a few years, and yet who refrains
from applying it? and who objects to the appli-
cation ? No one ; indeed, the man would be
reckoned a fool who should say to a chemist,
" Your science, Sir, is not established ;
you
must not apply it to the illustration of chemical
phenomena." The objection, that Phrenology
is applied too far, and in too many ways, is
often made in a very angry spirit. People
might as well be angry, that out of twenty-six
alphabetical letters, many thousand words are
15
made ; or that, from seven notes of the gamut,
such a countless number of sounds should be
worked.
Phrenology, as a true system of the human
mind, will apply to every exhibition of its anti-
type, and will be useful in every relation in
which the mind is called into exercise. Con-
sider its possessor as a child, Phrenology will
lead to the proper means to be made use of in
cherishing some, and restraining others, of the
dispositions and faculties. If we view man as
a member of a community, this scienee teaches
what talents he has, and how he can best
employ them for the common good. And,
finally, if we behold man as a creature of God,
a knowledge of Phrenology will enable him to
examine that historical code which boasts a
divine origin ; to try whether it deserves this
high dignity, by investigating whether its doc-
trines and precepts are accordant with our
nature. This last and most important applica-
tion is the one taken advantage of, in the follow-
ing pages.
To show the justness of this application, it
is worthy of reiteration, that religion is addresed
16
to the mind.* It is evident, then, that if we
are in possession of a correct mental system,
we have data, or grounds, from which we can
deduce tests. 'witnessing to the Bible being the
word of God, by showing that its doctrines are
conformable to the constitution of that mind
with which it has to do. This species of ana-
logical proof rests on the possibility of inferring
the truth of one proposition, from its consis-
tency with another, which we know to be true ;
and the evidence derived from this source, is
second only to that of direct facts.
By some it may be thought, that, in this de-
monstration, too much is given to Phrenology:
they may say, you would never have found out
this application of the science, without the mind
having been illuminated by Scripture truth.
The author most readily allows this; and, in so
doing is olad to acknowledge, that the word
of God is the best purifier of the mental vision.
* This word is used in the broad phrenological view,
as comprehending the desires commonly called the flesh ;
the sentiments mimed, in the Bible, the soul ; and the
intellectual {'acuities represented in the same book by the
word spirit. In this threefold division of the mental fac-
ulties, Phrenology agrees with Scripture.
17
But it does not follow, because this applica-
tion would not have been seen without the aid
of the light of Scripture, that therefore the
application did not exist ; any more than that
the imperfection of our natural sight does not
at all argue against the existence of things
which we do not see; for I do not suppose,
that many are so ignorantly blind, as to refuse
to believe in any thing but what is evident to
their own senses. We should, rather than im-
pugn this application, rejoice in it, and value
and study, constantly, the word of God, which
alone is capable of enabling us to direct our
knowledge to proper objects.
This introduction may be concluded by an
extract from a work published in the eigh-
teenth century : — " The two volumes of nature
and grace are so divinely perfect ; contain so
much true beauty and solid worth, that, in order
to be thoroughly admired, they can want noth-
ing more than to be well understood. And,
moreover, they correspond so strictly, and tally
so exactly in numberless respects, and are so
peculiarly fitted to illustrate, unfold, and enforce
each other, that nothing can redound more to
the credit and esteem of either, than a nearer
2*
18
contemplation of both. Doubtless the more
intimately men are acquainted with them, the
greater excellencies they will discover ; and the
severest search, if honestly made, must end in
deriving both from the same original." *
The author cannot let this opportunity pass
without testifying his gratitude to an anatomical
lecturer, Mr. Sleigh, of London, for having
directed his attention to the discoveries of Gall
and Spurzheim ; and also to Mr. Combe, whose
labors, in the cause of Phrenology, will ever
entitle him to respect, and will obtain him, in
future days, a place, and that no mean one,
among the benefactors of mankind.
Edinburgh, 1827.
* Balguy's Tracts, Moral and Theological, page xxix.
Preface.
INTRODUCTION
When my thoughts were first turned to the
subject discussed in these pages, so many and
so powerful seemed the obstacles against their
successful prosecution, that, had not an ardent
desire to direct any additional knowledge to
the developement of the most important truths,
given its potent assistance, the following attempt
would never have been made. Indeed many,
and they men of sound sense, and extensive
reading, asserted that every thing that could be
said upon the evidences of Christianity had
already been offered to the world, and enumer-
ated a train of so many illustrious spirits, who
had directed the powerful energies of their
minds to this momentous question, that it seem-
ed almost presumption to persevere. Still, how-
20
ever, the conviction of being in possession of
a fountain of knowledge, which has been, till
of late years, undiscovered ; and the certainty,
that from it flows a purer stream than that
which has formed the mighty, but Stygian,
river of mental metaphysics ; and the hope that
by seizing the stream in its course, it might be
directed into the fields of truth, encouraged me
to proceed.
It is hoped, from the observations contained
in the Preface, that the nature of the argument
will be perceived. But as it is, naturally
enough, a common case, that an author, like a
painter, observes peculiarities, and sees farther
and more in his productions, than the reader
or the spectator beholds, it may be proper to
make some additional remarks, proving, that
the argument herein brought forward, has
something new in it, and is not, as some may
be apt to imagine, a substitution of new expres-
sions for new ideas. In order to exhibit its
novelty, it will be necessary to undertake the
unpleasant, though useful, duty of showing the
nature — and, in doing so, the defects —of
former arguments (for they all seem more or
less defective), and then to point out the nature
21
of the following. The ungracious nature of
the task of dwelling upon the misconceptions
of great men, must be evident to all : its per-
formance, however, is a duty rendered impera-
tive by their very celebrity.
The arguments of those who have written
upon the internal evidences of Christiani-
ty:
may be reduced under three classes. The
first consists of those who have argued upon the
reasonableness of the doctrines, or the accord-
ance between the nature of the Christian religion,
and the character of the Supreme. The divine
character, it will be seen, is the touchstone in
this species of argument. But to make this
serve such a purpose is illogical, and conse-
quentl , unsound. We have no knowledge of
the char cter of God, but from his works and
his word.
Our information upon this head, from his
works, is very limited ; indeed, so much so, that
we cannot be justified in making our experience
thereupon a standard of truth. Chalmers's
reasoning on this subject is conclusive :
" To
assign," says he, " the character of the divine
administration from the little that offers itself
to the notice of our own personal observation,
22
would be far more absurd than to infer the
history and character of the kingdom, from the
history and character of our own family." Any
reasoning, therefore, as to the truth of Christi-
anity, from the accordance between its doctrines
and the character of God, as made known by
his works, is * inconclusive. Our knowledge
from the word of God is far more extensive.
Indeed, therein we are taught the real charac-
ter of the Deity ; therein he who fills all is
made known ; a view of his immeasurable
attributes, under the veil of some interesting
and important facts, is presented. This knowl-
edge, thus obtained, is the proper standard to
use in examining the divine character. But
this is that which Christianity makes to appear;
and, in proving that the general doctrines of
the Christian system correspond with those
that relate to the Being held forth therein, as
the object of adoration, all that is demonstrated
* It is not said, that it was inconclusive, but that it is.
To Adam, whose vision was not biassed by the prepon-
derance of his lower feelings, the creation was a continu-
al preacher of the Creator ; and now that the light of
Revelation has dawned, it has become again an in-
structer.
23
is, that a consistency exists throughout. But
this, though pleasant to behold, and, to the
believer, one confirmatory evidence of the truth
of his system, the object of belief, is not sufficient
to authorize any one to believe the Bible to be in-
deed the word of God. The harmony proves that
truth is the general feature of the work ; but
not that the God, who is Truth, is its author.
In Euclid's elements there is throughout a
consistency ; but who considers this as proving
that of this work Euclid was the author ? The
insufficiency of this argument will be rendered
still more apparent, when it is remembered
that this consistency is not perfect, at least to
most minds ; for, with some matters revealed,
all that can be said is, to use Paul's language,
and to inquire, " Who art thou that repliest
against God ? Shall the thing formed say to
Him who formed it, Why hast thou made me
thus ?
55
The next class of reasoners are those who
have argued in favor of Christianity, from its
doctrines being superior, both in morality and in
faith, to those of any existent system, and from
its precepts being opposed to the predominant
desires of the generality of men. Therefore, it
24
has been concluded by many, that Christianity
could not have been the work of men, or of
devils, but necessarily of God. This conclu-
sion depends upon a want of knowledge; for,
in many works written by heathen philoso-
phers,* we find very proper practices recom-
mended, and many duties enjoined, requiring
for their performance the sacrifice of feelings
which men hold dear. Wicked men have often
inculcated highly moral precepts. Voltaire, in
his Philosophical Dictionary, has some excellent
laudatory and illustrative remarks, on self-denial,
and other commonly called virtues. The mo-
rality of Christianity, it is true, is distinguished
by the principle to which, in this system, it
owes its rise, namely, the love of God. The
arguments of this class, can be called no more
than illustrations of Christianity : as such, they
have been useful in exhibiting the grandeur and
elevation of the Christian system, even as a
system of philosophy ; but do not prove that
the same is a revelation from God, because we
are not certain, upon like reasoning, but some
* See Apologia Dei ; a valuable work, as containing
records of the opinions of the ancients.
25
system ma}' yet come forward superior to it.
Before, then, this argument can be convincing,
it will be necessary for us to possess the stand-
ard of perfection, and to find that, upon com-
paring Christianity with it, they agree.
The third class of arguments consists of
those drawn from the honesty, manifested by
their sufferings, of the persons who bore testi-
mony to the truths stated in the Bible, and
from the successful elevation of Christianity
above all the numerous, varied, and powerful
attempts to overthrow it. The withstanding of
this opposition, it is said, is sufficient to demon-
strate, that the Christian system has God for
its author. But this way of reasoning is not
conclusive. Many persons, moreover, have
devoted their lives in the defence of what are
now believed not only false, but absurdly child-
ish religions : and it is wr
ell known, that the
best way to perpetuate a name, is to persecute
its possessor. Indeed, a philosopher, who
wished his opinions to be known, cried, " Per-
secute me, persecute me." Persecuted men
band together, stir up one another, and often
unjustly identify their cause with that of God,
and, by so doing, acquire an intrepidity superior
3
26
to every difficulty. And, allowing, that the
bearing of persecution for conscience* sake
shows the honesty of the belief of the persecut-
ed, it is no proof that the thing believed is not
a lie. For, though what Gamaliel said to the
Jewish sanhedrim respecting the infliction of
punishment on the first preachers of Christian-
ity, namely, " If this counsel, or this work be
of men, it will come to nought ; but if it be of
God, ye cannot overthrow it" (Acts v. 38,
39), is true, yet it is a species of evidence
that is merely subsidiary, and only that, when
ages are past. Such reasoning would establish,
in the mind of the Papist, the Romish church
as the right church; in the opinion of the
Turk, the Mahommedan. Indeed, this logic is
one, which laziness has begotten upon fear.
Instead of investigating the evident, and, to
Gamaliel, sensibly evident testimonies to the
divine mission of the apostles, and to the
heavenly nature of the doctrines taught by
them, he, afraid of examining matters which
came so near home, contented himself in this
doctrine of expediency. And let those who
argue thus on any truth beware, lest, by this
lukewarmness, they depart from the way of
duty, and cease to do good to men.
27
These three classes comprise almost all the
arguments that have been written upon the in-
ternal evidences of Christianity ; and, though
not conclusive, have not been without use.
They have been the means of removing much
of the rubbish that prevented some of the strong
and well-defended buttresses of the Christian's
citadel being seen. They have shown the bul-
warks of Zion, and have pointed out thy
beauties, O Jerusalem !
Two arguments, however, remain to be
noticed ; these not being comprised within the
three above. Reference is made to those of
Butler and Erskine.
Some had disputed the truth of Revelation,
upon the ground that it contains many things
which are opposed to our reason, and to the
light afforded us by natural religion. To this
objection Butler replied, by showing, that if
this argument was sufficient to overturn the
truth of revelation, it was equally so in destroy-
ing the truth of what we observe in nature.
For, in the natural world, we see and believe
in many things which we do not understand,
and which we cannot reconcile with our notions
derived from any natural source. But if our
28
belief be refused, unless our understandings per-
ceive the nature of all things, we must shut our
eyes, we must deny the most evident, yea, sen-
sibly evident truths. Hkherto the argument of
Butler is good. As overturning the objection,
it is unanswerable ; but the positive application
which some have made of it in attempting to
establish Christianity, is not so good. It can
do only as a negative argument.
For that man wanders wide, and in a latitude
not in Butler's measurement, when from the
similarity between nature and revelation, that
difficulties exist in each, he argues that, there-
fore, the God of nature and the God of revela-
tion are the same. There is more of neatness
than of conclusiveness in this way of reasoning;
a similar kind of logic would demonstrate, that,
because two things agree in one respect, they
shall coincide altogether.
Erskine has, however, struck out a new road.
The character and condition of man hold pre-
eminent places in his argument. The character
of God, namely, that recognised by natural
religion, has its place. He endeavours to show,
that the doctrinal facts contained in the Bible
are such as must necessarily arise from the di-
29
vine character ; and that the nature of these
facts, in relation to man, is such, that the
effects, which it is said in the Christian system,
will be produced by their exhibition and recep-
tion, are such as, on the known principles of
human nature, must be : thence concluding,
that Christianity is a revelation from God. To
use, however, his own words — " I mean to
show, that there is an intelligible and necessary
connexion between the doctrinal facts of reve-
lation, and the character of God (as deduced
from natural religion), in the same way as there
is an intelligible and necessary connexion be-
tween the character of a man, and his most
characteristic actions ; and farther, that the
belief of these doctrinal facts has an intelligible
and necessary tendency to produce the Christian
character, in the same way that the belief of
danger has an intelligible and necessary tenden-
cy to produce fear." This method of reasoning,
though, as far as I have been able to learn,
never objected to, is inconclusive ; on three
grounds. I state this opinion with all humility
;
but truth does not admit of a compromise, even
among friends warring in the same cause. It
is liable to objection, first, from the assumption
3*
30
of the character of God as recognised by natural
religionists ; second, from certain known 'prin-
ciples of human nature being taken for granted
;
and third, from the condition in which human
nature is, and to which the motives contained
in the facts of Christianity are suited, not being
explained or proved. To consider these grounds
individually, may be beneficial and just; and,
therefore, with respect to the first, it may be
observed, that until that which is called natural
Teligion, is proved to present a correct standard
of the character of God, it cannot be consist-
ently used in demonstrating that the doctrinal
facts of Scripture are of divine origin. But
this is the method of demonstrating the divine
original of Scripture by Erskine, as may be seen
by reading over the first portion of the recorded
extract. The uncertainty of the dicta of natural
religion must be evident to every one who has
examined his own mind, and has observed how
others' thoughts have become so incorporated
in his mental exercises, that, when they appear,
he takes them for his own. The Deists of
modern days have, it is true, brought forward a
more consistent system than those, their fellows
of the ages before the Christian era. But to
31
what is this superiority referrible ? Is it not
THAT REVEALED RELIGION HAS BEEN INCORPO-
RATED INTO THE MINDS OF THE DEISTS BY EARLY
EDUCATION, AND THENCE BEING BIASSED, THEY
HAVE DEVISED A SYSTEM IN WHICH ALL THE
REAL BEAUTIES ARE BORROWED FROM CHRIS-
TIANITY? And in making the dicta of natural
religion the means of deciding upon the divine
origin of the doctrinal facts of the Christian
system, we fall into the error of making the
experience of those whom every Christian must
allow are enemies of revealed truth, the judge,
before whom the character and the proceedings
of the Deity are arraigned. If natural religion
was demonstrated to be true, in all its decisions
respecting the character of God, this might be
permitted, but not till then. I am aware it may
be said, that man was created in God's image ;
and that, by giving to God all the moral traits
in man in an infinite degree (the way of natural
religionists), we cannot err. But this way of
reasoning is fallacious ; because it is only from
revelation that we learn, that man was created
in his Maker's image : and the strength of this
species of argument depends upon what, to an
unbeliever, is an assumption.
32
The second ground on which Erskine's argu-
ment must be inconclusive to the infidel, is, that
certain features of human character are taken
as known principles of human nature. Many
may allow that the principles of Erskine are
the fixed ones of the nature of man, but there
are others that will not; and before the argu-
ment deduced from such principles is valid,
these must be demonstrated to be the immutable
standards of human character. If he had es-
tablished the principles of human nature upon a
foundation as firm as that on which the laws of
mechanics are fixed, his reasoning from them
would be fair. This we have a right to expect
;
for Erskine introduces his argument by a beau-
tiful illustration. He fancies a traveller returned
from China, where, among the many wonders
seen, it is supposed one was a steam-engine.
He tells his countrymen, the Syracusans. The
stupid believe all; the judicious doubt; but
Archimedes, on hearing the description of the
boiler, the pipes, valves, and of the other parts,
acknowledges the truth of the narration, al-
though the narrator may not be trust-worthy
:
and why 1 Because the effects stated agree
with the known principles of mechanics. Thence
it follows, that, for Evskine's argument to hold
good, it is necessary that the principles of man's
iould be demonstrated; because the
mere decisions of experience cannot be ccn-
iratil all experiences decide similarly.
The third defect in Erskine's argument is,
that, in it, man is assumed to be in a certain
condition. Every one must allow that much
evil is in the world, and most will agree in re-
ferring its origin to the fall. But the motives
of Christianity are addressed to our nature, as
affected in a certain way by the fall ; and the
force, and the suitableness, of the doctrinal facts
can be seen, to the full extent, only when a con-
viction of being in this condition is driven
home upon the mind, by a demonstration of its
truth. It is true, Christianity says that we are
in this condition ; but the infidel does not be-
lieve : and, before he can be convinced of the
suitableness of the doctrinal facts of the Chris-
tian system to produce certain effects, he must
have it demonstrated that such is the condition
of human nature ; for it must be allowed, that
is very suitable to a person in one state,
may be very unsuitable to him in another.
34
Having thus pointed out the nature of former
arguments,**it remains that the one pursued in
the following pages should be brought forward.
Previous, however, to doing this, it seems to
the writer a bounden duty to bear testimony to
the beauties of Erskine's publication ; and to
add, that though it is not a conclusive argu-
ment, it affords the most striking illustrations of
the genuine influence of Christian principles.
Every Christian must be pleased with the work,
and must be happy to see the extensive circula-
tion which it has had ; and its writer, it must
be acknowledged, has made a diligent use of
every means he had in his power. And though
the deficiencies in the argument already stated,
are supplied in the following pages, the author
takes no credit to himself; the difference being,
that he happens to be in possession of means
which Mr. Erskine did not possess ; or, if pos-
sessing, did not use.
* One argument has not been noticed, and this is, per-
haps, the best of all. It is Haldane's; and is well worthy
of perusal. It views Christianity as regarding the salva-
tion of man. Some others, of which the author is not
aware, may have been passed by.
35
Phrenology, as a true system of the human
mind, supplies all these defects. It frees its
possessor from the need of any appeal, for the
sake of argument, either to natural or revealed
religion, for the character of God ;
puts him in
possession of the known, the fixed principles of
human nature ; opens up to him the influence
of motives on that nature ; enables him to
prove, both that man is in the condition in
which he is said to be, in Scripture, and to over-
rule many unanswerable objections.
Before stating the argument, it may be proper
to hint at an objection often made by those who
have not fully studied the discoveries which the
science of Phrenology has made. It is this,
that experience is equally sufficient with the evi-
dence of phrenological demonstration. This is
saying that the stream is equally pure as the*
fountain. Experience is the stream flowing
from the primitive faculties, demonstrated by
Phrenology. Experience consisting of deduc-
tions of the mind from facts observed ; which
facts themselves have arisen from sources, which
were anterior to the facts themselves. It is
true, we can say the stream is water, but we
cannot be certain that it arises from & fountain.
It may be accumulated rain. The metaphysi-
cians say that it is : they refer the differences,
which Phrenology demonstrates to arise from
primitive faculties, to the influence of circum-
stances ; and refuse to acknowledge that they
flow from individual fountains. Thus we see
the uncertainty of experience, from the possi-
bility of putting different explanations upon it
;
and the certainty of phrenological demonstra-
tion, by its not permitting any difference of
explanation. Indeed, metaphysicians are, in
truth, Owenites, although they will not allow
it.
But to the argument : —All religions are sim-
ilar in the three following respects : in having
some superior being or beings for their object ; the
favor of the same as their end ; and the means
of obtainment as their subject. These remarks
apply to Christianity : and, in illustrating them
in the following dissertation, it will be proved
that this religion alone can boast a divine orig-
inal, from the following circumstances : That
no God but that of Christianity can be
approved of by man, on account of his
mental constitution : but man having, in
every case, approved of others beside the true
37
God, SOME CHANGE HAS HAPPENED IN HUMAN
Nature ; That this change is evil, and that
man is necessarily evil : That the means for
obtaining God's favor are suited to man in
such, and in no other condition : That the
obtaining of this favor is connected with cer-
tain changes, which the means are effica-
cious in producing : That the means for pre-
serving the favor of God, are such as, according
to the present condition of human nature, are
efficiently suited for effecting that great
object : Finally, concluding, that as Christianity
corresponds thus, in every respect, with the
fixed constitution of our nature, it must be the
work of the Author of our being. Such are
the principal matters discussed in the present
work ; and it now remains that we pursue
them.
The similarity between all religions has been
stated. And as the division is natural, between
a being and the circumstances in connexion,
the argument will embrace two points : First,
the general character of the God of Christianity;
and, second, His particular character, seen in
the means to be made use of by His creatures,
to gain, and preserve His favor.
4
INTERNAL
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY
DEDUCED FROM
PHRENOLOGY,
PART I.
The argument to be illustrated is, that the
•general character of god, as revealed by
Christianity, is conformable to the prin-
ciples OF OUR NATURE, AS DEMONSTRATED BY
Phrenology. In establishing this, four propo-
sitions will be offered for consideration : first,
That man is so constituted as to be constrained
-.o worship some being ; second, That he is en-
dowed with certain faculties, enabling him to
decide on what ought to be the object worship-
ped ; third, That this object must be such as
these faculties, unbiassed, approve of; and,
fourth, That the God of Christianity is the only
such object.
40
The first proposition that requires demon-
stration is, That man is so constituted as to
BE CONSTRAINED TO WORSHIP SOME BEING.
Such a proposition may, to some minds, be
so self-evident as to need no proof. Indeed,
one writer says, that " it is morally fit that man
should reverence his Maker, is a proposition
self-evident to all that rightly understand the
terms." In proof, it has been urged, that man
is called a religious animal. That he should
have received such a distinguishing appellation
without some adequate cause seems unreason-
able. Indeed, this characteristic of human
nature is very evident, even upon a superficial
observation ; and so strong and so general has
been the impression of a superintending power,
and of our duty to bow in homage before the
same, that the most civilized of nations banish-
ed Pythagoras, one of their philosophers, for
denying the existence of a God, and put an-
other, called by the Delphic oracle the wisest
of men, to death, for maintaining the existence
of a being thought bv his countrymen to be in
opposition to their superintending powers. The
lifting up the hands and eyes towards heaven,
the natural language of distress, seems to bear
41
testimony to the general impression, both of the
existence of a Deity, and of the duty of bowing
before him. And, though, in health and pros-
perity, many among the heathens, and, in mod-
ern times, still many more, have pretended to
doubt the existence of God, and consequently
their duty to worship him ;
yet, in the days of
adversity and sickness, we find, as Seneca re-
marks, that these skeptics show themselves to
be most fearful of this Being, who, according
to them, when in health, is the fancy of men.
And few will doubt what Cicero says; " There
was never a nation so savage, or people so bar-
barous, but always confessed the existence of a
God." The objects of worship may be, not
God, but devils, or, sometimes, even men; and
the means for obtaining the favor of the being
worshipped, may be not beneficent, but cruel ;
yet, the impressions that there is such a being,
and that this, as such, should be worshipped,
seem to be general. And it is a curious fact,
that the very name the Greeks gave to the
Deity, 0*°?
L theos, signifies fear. If language
consists of signs of things, this affords most
striking illustration and evidence of the opinions
of the Greeks upon this subject.
4 #
42
However evident these conclusions may seem,
and however fairly deduced from facts, some
have disputed them. So evident, indeed, are
they thought by one writer, that he attests " it
would be as absurd to demand a reason why man
should reverence his Maker, as to ask why a
whole is greater than its part." * But this is no
argument ; for it should always be remembered,
that, before ice can be convinced of the fitness of
any thing, it must be evident to ourselves ; it
being clear to others, unless they be infallible
(an attribute which a real Protestant will not
be willing to allow to any man), is no reason
why it should appear fit to us. Indeed, two
objections have been urged against these conclu-
sions, thus deduced : the first is, that there is no
cause for a belief in a superior existence ; and
second, supposing that a superior being exists,
there is no reason why he should be worshipped.
These objections must be refuted ; and, in their
refutation, an opportunity will be afforded to
show the importance of Phrenology, in giving the
force of demonstration, to conclusions deduced
from otherwise disputable observations. The
* See Synge's Method, p. 11.
43
first objection set the master-genius of Paley to
work, and the result of his labors was his valua-
ble and interesting publication, " Natural The-
ology." His main proposition, which he illus-
trates by a great variety of examples, is, that
wherever there is design, there must be a de-
signer. In the world, innumerable instances of
design are evident, and therefore, according to
his proposition, a contriver must have existed
;
and as, in the carrying on of the varying circum-
stances of this and other worlds, there must be a
presiding mind, that contriver still exists. This
argument, so simple, and apparently so free
from objection, was nullified by an opposing
statement. The skeptic did not pretend to deny
the examples of design, but disputed the conclu-
sion that these should lead to a designer. Paley
illustrates his argument by supposing a plain,
over which a person travelling picks up a watch.
The archdeacon then analyzes the thoughts
that would pass through the man's mind. But
here he fell into an error, which almost all met-
aphysicians have been in the habit of com-
mitting : he made his own consciousness that of
the man, and makes the traveller think as one
would, who knew the uses of the watch. To
44
Paley it would exhibit the idea of a workman ;
but why ? Because he knew that workmen
made such things. Here, then, his conviction
of design depended upon his knowledge.* But
let a savage happen to pick up the watch, what
would be his conclusions? said the infidel. He
would, it is likely, fancy it was some animal,
having peculiar powers, and would be aston-
ished ; f he would not think of a designer, un-
less he had seen such a thing made by some
one. But any other animal, besides man, would
have thought in a similar way. The animal
creation behold the same objects ; they look
around, admire, and wonder; but do not infer
any thing respecting a supreme existence. A
cat, as well as man, sees itself in a glass ; but
does the cat imagine that man made the glass?
* The same opinion respecting Paley's reasoning is
given by Mr. Rennell, Christian Advocate in the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, in his Remarks on Skepticism.
t It is curious that the above was written without any
knowledge that such would turn out to be a fact ; but an
intelligent lady, to whom the first edition of this book- was
lent for perusal, appended a note, that a savage, to whom
a watch was presented, did actually regard it as an ani-
mal, and feared to handle it lest it might injure him. —
See Lander's Expedition to the Niger.
45
The force of this objection is more apparent,
when we reflect on what we ourselves would
think, had we never seen a watch before, and
knew nothing about time. This philosophy,
though so humbling, has been advocated ; it puts
man on a level with the brute creation, a para-
doxical exhibition of philosophical pride. We
might almost doubt whether men ever held such
opinions, were we not aware that one would-be
philosopher of the present day, glories in the idea
of being, post mortem, a cabbage. Those, who
argued for the existence of a superintending
power, were so delighted at the opportunity of
attack afforded them by this lowering of man to
the rank of the brute creation, that they came to
the charge with the word " reason," without
having properly considered in what reason con-
sists. The possession of reason was their ground,
on which it was maintained that man and no
other animal, could discover the existence of the
Supreme, and, discovering this, could be bound
to worship him. Prejudice, it is true, was on
their side; but the infidel returned their attack
with a vigor and a skill, to the effects of which
they had laid themselves open, by the intemper-
ance of their charge. He demanded the evi-
46
dence that man is in the possession of reason ;
and observed, if we say reason consists in fore-
sight, look at the ant, that collects with so much
diligence her food for the winter ; if reason be
exhibited in suiting ourselves to our circum-
stances, behold the beaver, building its two-
floored house ; if in being grateful for favors,
consider the dog, the faithful remembrancer of
kindness ; if in the approval of what is right,
read the numerous instances wherein animals
act justly. A long dispute was now entered into
respecting the nature of reason ; and attempts
were made to point out differences between this
and instinct. A principal distinction was the
following: —That instincts ever lead to the
same results, and do not admit of improvement.
But against this so many facts were urged, that
the objection cannot be considered answered
with such clearness as to justify an infidel in
bowing before the judgment of his opponents.*
* Indeed, the difficulties attendant upon a delineation
of the difference between reason and instinct, will be fully
seen by reading the valuable work, entitled " Paxton's
Illustrations of Scripture;" also an Essay on Instinct,
read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh ; also SmeK
lie's Natural History.
47
It was asserted, that reason is a ray of fl
the
light that enlightens every man who comes into
the world;" a beam of the eternal Logos, the
" Sun of Righteousness." Many may allow the
truth of this beautiful remark ; but the infidel
observes, " This is assertion, where is the
proof?"
This brief view of skeptic opinions has been
given with the intent of showing how little cer-
tainty the labors of metaphysicians have con-
ferred upon these important subjects ; and I
think, if phrenology sets these questions for ever
at rest, we cannot look upon the science but
with a smile of approbation.
How then can the question be answered ?
how is it to be proved that man possesses rea-
son? In order to give a proper reply, it must
be established that man has certain facul-
ties, NOT IN THE POSSESSION OF OTHER ANI-
MALS, THE EXERCISE OF WHICH CONSTITUTES
reason. Does phrenology afford this means of
proof? It does. This science demonstrates, by
observation, and by dissection, that man is in
possession of several faculties not possessed by
beasts ; and, among these, two in particular, the
exercise of which constitutes reason. These are
48
Causality, which traces between cause and
effect, and impresses us with au irresistible con-
viction, that every phenomenon, or change in
nature, is caused by something ; and Compari-
son, which gives the power of perceiving resem-
blances, similitudes, and analogies. These two
faculties, perceiving the wisdom, harmony,
power, and beautiful connexion in the works of
creation, infer that a supreme creating and
directing Mind exists. This they do from the
very necessity of their constitution.
*
The establishment of these faculties takes,
away one chief support of the second objection,
that supposing a superior being exists, there is
no reason why man should worship him. The
skeptic maintained that, though he received
many benefits from the works of creation, this
is no reason why he should bow before the Crea-
tor. M For," said he, " does not the insect
enjoy the benefits of God's creation, when it
revels in the sun-beam ? Does not the lionr
* For a fuller illustration of these observations, see
Combe's System of Phrenology, article Causality; see
also pages 141, 142, 143, Phren. Jour., No. 1; for a
fuller exposition of these principles and facts, see also
page 145, note, No. 1., Phrenological Journal.
49
wandering through the desert, and stalking along
in the dignity of his greatness, receive his food
from the hand of Heaven 1 Does not the Crea-
tor supply the rivers for the fish, and does He
not feed the fowls of every kind ? Why should
I, any more than these, who enjoy the benefits of
creation, bow before the Creator ? And besides,
if I look over the earth, I behold much misery.
It is true, the earth is watered, and the sun
rises. The face of nature is beautiful; but, sad
contrast! I am obliged to obtain my bread by
the sweat of my brow ; my life is beset with toils
which cannot be avoided. Am I to worship a
Being who has permitted such misery?" To
reply to the former observations, it was alleged,
that man possesses reason ; an allegation demon-
strated by phrenology. To the latter, it was
urged, happiness is the rule, but misery the ex-
ception. To this the skeptic replied by a pas-
sage from the Bible, " Man is born to trouble
as the sparks fly upwards; 5
'
and added, even
allowing that our reason may demonstrate the
existence of God, it does not therefore follow
that he should be worshipped. " My reason
says, He is above all glory and praise. I am
the clay in his hands, and his glory is exhibited
5
50
in my constitution. " And besides, the simple
belief of an existence does not imply that that
existence is to be worshipped ; for " the under-
standing only perceives facts and draws inferen-
ces, but does not feel emotions ; and adoration is
an emotion." Metaphysicians argue to the con-
trary, but they have been misguided, by mistak-
ing the decision of another faculty of the human
mind, for that of those constituting reason. And
that simple adoration is not the effect of reason,
but of some other faculty equally strong, is proved
by the fact, that the deities of the savages are,
often, blocks of wood and stone. It surely will
not be said, that a logical tiain of deductions
gave birth to this species of worship ; a conclu-
sion to which we must come, if we allow that the
impression of the duty of worshipping a superior
Being depends upon the design, harmony, and
order, in the works of creation, discoverable by
reason. Is it a conclusion of reason that gives
rise to idol worship 1 To what then are all the
facts connected with adoration referrible? " To
the influence of education/' says the skeptic;
w and the differences in the elevation of the
object worshipped, arise from the relative cultiva-
tion of the minds of the worshippers ; and the
51
beginning of worship of every kind, is ascribable
to designing priests." This objection is invali-
dated by the nature of the facts; for how could
the priests have induced such a state of things,
unless something exists in the mind of man,
leading him to worship; and why should the
priests have chosen this method of bringing their
fellow-men over to their purposes, unless they
had been convinced that, in man, a powerful
tendency to worship some Being exists? How-
ever, the infidel strenuously maintains his expla-
nation of the facts, which he considers as exhibi-
tive of the influence of education. Indeed,
conviction has not been driven home upon this
point ; because, though it is fair to argue, as has
already been done, that where light exists, there
must be a luminary, so there cannot be any ex-
hibitions of a religious principle^ unless the prin-
ciple is in existence ;
yet, until we can either
show that the infidel explanation is insufficient to
account for the phenomena, or bring positive
evidence to the existence of the principle, we
cannot convince the gainsayer. Those, who
have been used to reasoning, will know the diffi-
culty connected with proving to any one the
insufficiency of his explanation ; and, although
52
in this case, a person, void of education, who
has had no communication, so far as is known,
with human beings, a man of the woods, in
fact,* is brought, having manifested in his con-
duct the influence of a principle leading him to
bow before God, the skeptic objects, and fairly
too, " We are unacquainted with all the circum-
stances of this person's history. In his early life
he may have seen some human being lift his
hands and eyes towards heaven, and being imita-
tive in his nature, followed the example, and
become a worshipper of a being, of whom he is
altogether ignorant." On this ground the infidel
takes his stand, and defies the utmost efforts of
his opponent. For, though it has been (and
with truth) asserted, that " a kind of devotion
inducing man to worship him, being the Crea-
tor and preserver of men, and of all things else,
and the provident Father of all, is planted and
inseparably fixed in the hearts of all men ;
" yet,
to prove this, if we can appeal to nothing but
* Since the publication of the first edition, Casper
Hauser has been brought before the public, and the
reader is requested to read the account published of him
in the Penny Magazine : also a later account by Lord
Stanhope.
53
exhibitions, which, the infidel asserts, arise from
circumstances, we can never be successful. We
mu?t demonstrate the principle.
Such, then, is the condition in which we are
left by the observation of facts. Phrenology
stops not here, but helps us out of our difficulty,
by demonstrating, by positive and incontroverti-
ble evidence, the existence in man, and in man
only, of a faculty of the mind, the source, the
fountain, of all these exhibitions of worship.
This faculty is named Veneration, from the
emotions to which it gives rise. Its existence
(for the evidence is convincing) affords an all-
powerful argument ; in fact, the only argument
that can be used, to prove to a man, who loves
his infidel explanation of the exhibitions of this
principle, the inaccuracy of his opinions. And
having proved its existence, it may be asked as
an illustrative evidence, whether a human being,
not idiotic, was ever known, who did not, in any
respect, exhibit its influence in adoring some one
being or other 1
In answering these objections, the proposition
started with has been proved. It has been de-
monstrated, that man, from his very constitution,
is bound to worship some being. And, when, ir\
5*
54
addition, we consider that man, and man only,
has the faculty of Veneration, we see a distinc-
tion between him and the lower animals ; and
behold the cause why the soul of man goeth
upwards, while that of a beast proceedeth down-
wards. The examination of this proposition I
cannot conclude better, than by the introduction
of a passage, elegant in style, and beautiful in
sentiment. " Dr. Gall observes, '
that the exis-
tence of the organ (Veneration) is an indirect
proof of the existence of God. Destructiveness
is implanted in the mind, and animals exist
around us to be killed for our nourishment.
Adhesiveness and Philoprogenitiveness are given,
and friends and children are provided as objects
on whom they may be exercised. Benevolence
is conferred on us, and the poor and unhappy, on
whom it may shed its soft influence, are every
where present with us. In like manner, the
instinctive tendency to worship is implanted in
the mind ; and, conformably to these analogies
of nature, we are entitled to infer that a God
exists whom we may adore.' " Combe's System,
p. 147.
55
The faculty of Veneration produces mere
emotion. It is the source of the tendency to
worship a superior power, but does not guide its
possessor in forming any ideas, correct or incor-
rect, of the object worshipped. It is, therefore,
natural to expect, that the Being who made man,
and has endowed him with a faculty leading to
adoration, has also provided his creature with
faculties, which, if properly directed, will lead
to the knowledge of the character fitted to be
the object on whom this faculty may be rightly
exercised. Indeed, without such an endowment,
man could not discover, in this matter, between
good and evil, and would have been left in the
chaos of objects, without a test to discover the
real and proper one ; he would be, in the wide
ocean of his imagination, as a mariner without
his compass on the mighty Pacific.
These obsersations lead to the second proposi-
tion in establishing the argument taken from the
general character of God, that Man is endowed
WITH CERTAIN FACULTIES, ENABLING HIM TO
DECIDE ON WHAT OUGHT TO BE THE OBJECT
WORSHIPPED.
Phrenology demonstrates the existence of cer-
tain faculties ; and it is phrenology, only, that
56
does. Metaphysicians have wandered far from
this idea. Common-sense people have asserted
their existence under the name of " dispositions/'
and in this, as well as in many other points, their
sentiments approach phrenological truth. Com-
monsense and Phrenology always agree; but
there is, in general, little accordance between
this product of observant minds, and the mental
metaphysics of the ancient school. Mental meta-
physics are foolishly abstract; their believers
tell us what is going on in the temple of their
consciousness, but not in the large theatre of the
world. Phrenology studies nature as it is, and
teaches us that we have the faculties of Causality
and Comparison, the offices of which have been
explained ; and also that we are in possession of
Conscientiousness, which gives birth to the sense
of right and wrong, and produces the feeling of
moral duty and obligation ; of Hope, producing
the tendency to believe in the possibility of what
the other faculties desire, and to look forward
into futurity; of Benevolence, the name of which
explains its power; of Firmness, of Cautious-
ness, and of others. Phrenology proves, in addi-
tion, that these faculties harmonize together, so
that the intellect cannot, except when biassed by
57
the desires, or misled by ignorance, approve of
any thing opposed to the dictates of the moral
sentiment?;. These faculties decide always in a
similar way ;
their language is perpetually the
same, although differing in power. This antici-
pates the objection, that the decisions of these
faculties, when small, are different from those
resulting from them, when large. Persons, rea-
soning thus, forget that a difference in degree, is
not a difference in kind. A drop of rain is water,
as much as is the ocean. Benevolence must
be benevolent ; Conscientiousness must be just
Causality must investigate ; Comparison must
compare ; Cautiousness must excite caution,
whether small or large. The voice may be feeble
and faint, but it will never vary.
Man has been endowed with these faculties
that they may serve for his guidance. His Hope
aspires for some object on which to rest ; his
Cautiousness bids him beware of resting on a
sandy foundation ; his Causality and Comparison
dictate that such are all things here below ; his
Benevolence makes his Hope sigh for an object
of benevolence ; and his Conscientiousness for
one who is just.
58
In order that the importance of these faculties
may be more fully seen, it may be farther re-
marked, that the faculty of Veneration, unguided
by them, may urge its possessor to " worship the
genius of the storm, the sun, as the source of
light, heat, and vegetable life
;
" or, if more
debased in intellect, he may bow before stocks
and stones. It was the faculty of Veneration,
not under the presiding influence of the other
faculties, and misguided by the vain and proud
imaginations of skeptical philosophy, that gave
birth to the first verse of Pope's Universal Prayer,
the sentiments of which are not less impious,
according to the literal meaning, than the versi-
fication is pretty. Veneration is blind ,* the un-
biassed faculties are its eyes ; and by them, the
way in which the former should exercise itself,
is found out. The object of these remarks is to
impress on the mind the important truth, that
Veneration, unguided by the intellectual faculties
and moral sentiments, must lead its possessor into
the deep night of superstition, affording to design-
ing priests an opportunity to way-lay and to strip
the traveller, not only of his raiment, but' of his
mental freedom — things which all history de-
clares they have ever done.
59
The existence of these faculties having been
demonstrated by Phrenology, and the nature of
their operation, as connected with the present
subject, having been thus briefly stated, the
third proposition comes into view, namely that
THE OBJECT WORSHIPPED, MUST BE SUCH AS
THE FACULTIES, UNBIASSED, APPROVE OF. With
the view of finding out this object, the principal
heathen deities, first, of the commonalty, then,
of 'the philosophers, will pass under review ; and,
as they march on, their features will be ex-
amined through the scrutinizing eye of these
faculties.
One of the principal features of Paganism —
(for, under this term, Grecian and Roman, as
well as Egyptian and Persian idolatries must be
classed, in spite of the Gibbonian definition * of
* "Gibbon, though intellectual by nature, and culti-
vated by study; though brilliant in the erudition of re-
search, unrivalled, too, in splendor and felicity of diction,
his clay-clad heart could discover no terrestrial charms,
save in Paganism. Nor could aught of congruous sym-
pathy reach his affections from any sentiment impearled
with Christian graces, or from any tear by Christian
effluence.'' Christianity Epitomized, by Rob. Bourne, Esq.
pp. 121, 122,
60
the first, the elegant mythology of the Greeks,) is
a plurality of deities. Indeed, polytheism is
the leading characteristic of heathen devotion.
" In number, titles, and attributes, the objects of
adoration may, indeed, occasionally differ ; but
a multiplicity of deities still constitutes the
general creed of Paganism, and a dereliction of
the pure worship of the Unity is equally charge-
able upon the refinements of Europe and Asia,
the degraded worship of the western hemisphere,
and the base superstition of Africa. The wis-
dom of Egypt, the learning of Greece, the mas-
culine energy of Rome, were alike unable to
preserve them from the universal contagion." *
It becomes, thence, a matter of inquiry, Is this
predominating feature of the ancient idolatries
in accordance with the decision of our mental
faculties? Veneration, it is true, would as wil-
lingly, perhaps, have many, as few, objects of
adoration ; but what will Causality and Compari-
son decide upon this matter ? Their decision
is the following : these numerous deities cannot
all be equal : they could not have called them-
selves into existence (supposing them to be exis-
* Faber's Horae Mosaicae, vol. i. p. 7, chap. 1.
61
tences.) but must have had some one who is
their original, the source whence~they derived
being. This must be superior to the rest, and
ought, therefore, to be the object of worship
;
and, unless authority is given to recognise the
worship of other beings, his inferiors, Conscien-
tiousness and Cautiousness forbid to bow the
knee before creatures, themselves created. Thus
then, it appears, that the demonstrably existing
mental faculties pass the decision of " No " upon
the question, whether it is accordant with their
constitution that the faculty of Veneration should
be directed to more than one object. And this
want of accordance is more fully seen when it is
remembered, that the Father, Saturn, the origi-
nal of the gocfs, is represented in Heathen
mythology as being divested of his power by his
children ; a palpable absurdity, that the source
of power should be overcome by those who
derive thence their strength ; and a violation of
the dictates of Conscientiousnes, which com-
mands us, as being just, to reverence our pa-
rents.
Some writers, however, have attempted to
show, that the religion of the Greeks was, even
in this matter, rational, and consequently just.
6
62
I
We are told by them, that the great foundation
of the Grecian mythology is, one wise and benev-
olent God, diffusing happiness around, and pro-
tecting his creatures by dispensations equally
wise and benevolent. This is a fact giving
support to the proposition by showing, that once
the impression of a being, in whom justice,
mercy, and unity, attributes recognised by Con-
scientiousness, Benevolence, and Causality, with
Comparison, are constituents, had its abode in
the human mind. Of this, further notice will be
taken hereafter. We are, in addition, told that
the various gods implied only the peculiar opera-
tions of nature, as they were beneficial to man ;
and mythology consists of the personification of
abstract qualities, of the sources of our chief
benefits, or of different allegorical representa-
tions. But this does not justify the multiplica-
tion of deities, and does not make it more
consistent in the eye of our faculties, that men
should worship objects made : for their decision
is, that we should venerate the source whence
all the providential manifestations and virtues
flow. It may be said, that the philosophers, the
initiated, did so. They saw through the in-
ferior deities to the one true God. It is possi-
63
ble : but Ideality says, that no likeness of Him
by whom are all things, and to whom, and in
whom, all things consist, can possibly be made.
If it be urged, that it is to help the worshippers
to raise their minds, Ideality, Hope, and Won-
der dispute the need of this ;
* yea, they spurn
such, or any assistance, and boast that their
powers are sufficient to wing even such a lofty
flight.
In order to show, more fully, the discordance
which subsists, between the decision of our
mental faculties upon the object fit for our
adoration, and those deities, said, by the above
writers, to be representations of virtues, it
may be well to consider a few.
Jupiter is the head. It is true that be holds
the thunder and lightning in his hand ; and,
in this, is approved by our Cautiousness, but is
* It is true that the practices of Roman Catholi-
cism, and of Church of Englandism, may be brought
in opposition to this ; but then these practices can be
recognised only by those in a very inferior state of mind,
and will pass away when men become enlightened.
These practices are the children of the darkness of Pagan-
ism, and will cease to exist when the sun of Christianity
shines clear,
64
abhorred by our Conscientiousness, being rep-
resented without natural affection, as a violator
of virtue, of the marriage-bed, and as an in-
ventor of the most abominable contrivances to
gratify his lust. Juno truly is a malicious
dame, being full of envy, pride, malice, and
practising unheard-of cruelties on the objects
of her hatred. Venus represented love, not
the pure flame of affection, but the destructive
element of passion ; and the nature of her
character is well exhibited by the nature of the
worship offered, prostitution : look at Corinth.
Mercury was the God of thieves ; and the
circumstance which gained him his deification,
was, his knavery. Saturn is represented as
destroying and eating his own children. Mars
is a bloody, murderous, mad, cowardly fool.
Pluto is the god of hell, and of riches. It is
true that Minerva, Ceres, and Proserpine are
better than the rest. Bring these boasted dei-
ties of Greece and Rome to the bar of Vene-
ration, to have the decision of our mental
faculties, Causality and Comparison, guided by
pure Benevolence and unbiassed Conscientious-
ness, and what will be their judgment with
respect to the question, whether these are fit
65
objects for adoraton? They will, they must
decide in the negative : they will say, " these
are no gods."
The Romans deified other objects : they gave
the divinityship to Paleness, to Fear, to Disease,
and erected temples for their worship. And
what do the above faculties say to this deifica-
tion and adoration ? They say it is not con-
sistent with our constitution, that any one
mental faculty should worship the manifestations
of other mental faculties ; and Benevolence
will never consent that its possessor should bow
before such loathed objects.
The phrenologist will have perceived another
mark of degradation in these objects of adora-
tion, inasmuch as, with a few exceptions, they
are deifications of our animal propensities, and,
what is worse, of their misdirections : thus,
Venus is an emblem of misguided Amativeness ;
Saturn of deficient Philoprogenitiveness ; the
Romans often sacrificed Justice to Friendship, a
misdirection of Adhesiveness ; Mars is a good
representation of misguided Destructiveness and
Combativeness. Mercury is a figure for Secre-
tiveness, misdirected to thieving, and so with
the rest. Thus the animal propensities have
6*
66
been elevated above the moral sentiments, con-
trary to the phrenological and scriptural doc-
trine, that the latter are supreme: the organs
of the moral feelings being placed at the crown
of the head.
The deities of the Romans and Greeks have
been brought forward, not with the view of
presenting the most horrible portraits, but the
best ; for these are what the wisdom of Greece,
and the gigantic greatness of Rome, gave birth
to, and acknowledged.
Philosophy has ever presumed to scorn the
ignorance of mankind. It may, therefore, be
fairly expected, that, in its doctrines, we shall
find some gleams of truth, some more exalted
notions of the Deity. And, as the friends of
philosophical knowledge pretended to be free
from the superstitions of the commonalty, we
may reasonably hope to discover in their
creed, some views more consistent with the
irremovable decisions of the mental faculties.
As the best example of the deities of philoso-
phers, the portrait of the Hindoo God, as given
in the institutes of Menu, may be presented.
In the Vedanti philosophy, evidently Platonic,
the Almighty, known by the mystical and in-
67
communicable appellation of O'M., is the only
being; and all others, including Brahma,
Vishnu, and Madeva, are only thft creatures of
idea or perception, which will perish in the
general annihilation, while O'M. alone survives
through all eternity. In the translation of a
Persic version of the Yoog Vashesti, a very
ancient composition in Sanscrit, the following
curious sentence is contained; "You are not
to consider Vishnu, Brahma, or Madeva, and
other incorporate beings as the deity, although
they have each the denomination of deva or
divine : these are all created, whilst the Supreme
Being is without beginning or end, unformed
and uncreated ; worship and adore him." Be-
fore we obey this injunction, it will be necessary
to be further acquainted with this Being's char-
acter. Upon examination we find not much to
admire. It is true, that this deity made a dis-
tinction between right and wrong ; but it seems,
that after the work of Creation was completed,
the Hindoo Creator interfered little or nothing
in the management of the concerns of the world.
The Hindoo philosophers held, that he was un-
limited in extent, and unequalled in authority.
They held also inferior deities, whom they en-
68
dued with divine attributes : and thus introduced
Polytheism into their system. Respecting fu-
ture rewards and punishments, as far as the
author has been able to learn, nothing, or little
more than nothing, is said. Conscientiousness
may, to a certain extent, approve of this being :
but Benevolence cannot look with pleasure on
his stoical indifference ; Hope cannot contem-
plate him with delight; nor Cautiousness with
anxiety.
It was my intention to present individual por-
traits of the god of each philosopher. But on
minutely examining the subject, there is so little
congruity, the same person having different no-
tions in different parts of his works, or of his
life, as to defy all exactness of portraiture.
Those who wish to know more on this matter,
and to be convinced that the author asserts the
truth, need but turn their attention to Enfield's
translation of Brucker, or to Brucker's work
"itself: and to the scholar, 1 know of nothing
that will exhibit the uncertainty of feature of
the deities of the philosophers with more brevity
and beauty, than Xenophon's remarks concern-
ing the gods. In this he introduces the opinions
of his master, Socrates, who is represented as
69
pointing out the duty of modesty towards the
gods ; as illustrating their benevolence, provi-
dence, continual watchfulness, and anxiety con-
cerning men, and the impossibility of perceiving
them. The philosopher states the character of
Him, who made and preserves the world ; in
whom every thing useful, lovely, and good ex-
ists, as not liable to injury, disease, or old age
:
as infallible, and as governing the whole uni-
verse. Yet we find that he gives the duties or
offices of providence to others, and does not
confine them to this one Being; and as a most
striking instance of the uncertainty of character
in the Socratic deity, we find the philosopher,
as his last command, ordering a cock to be
sacrificed to Esculapius. It need not be re-
peated how such contrarieties are in opposition
to our mental faculties.
The atheistical notions of the ancient philo-
sophers are clearly illustrated in the paper on
Atheism, in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia. To
this, and the above works, the reader is refer-
red; and he will find, taking the faculties as
demonstrated by Phrenology for his touching-
stone, not one of the many deities to stand the
test.
70
These remarks will be closed by a portrait of
the Epicurean God, which, as drawn by a hea-
then philosopher, Seneca, is the most perfect
we have. " Epicurus fancies God to be without
power, and without arms : above fear himself,
and as little to be feared. He places him
betwixt the orbs, solitary and idle ; out of the
reach of mortals, and neither hearing our pray-
ers, nor minding our concerns ; and allows him
only such a veneration and respect as we pay
to our parents.'' * Of this being our faculties
cannot approve. Our Causality and Comparison
cannot recognise a God without power ; our
Veneration, combined with the other faculties,
denies both that God is not to be feared, and
that the reverence due to him is not greater
than that we owe to our parents. Our Benevo-
lence will not allow of a God who is not engaged
in benevolent providences ; and Conscientious-
ness cannot recognise a being not exercising
justice.
Amidst this variety of divinityships, we can-
not find one portraiture that claims the ap-
probation of our mental faculties. All have
* Seneca de Beneficiis.
71
some blot, some stain, that renders them, as
usurpations of the Divine character, hideous
to behold. And, if we direct our attention
from them to the God of the Deists of modern
times, something more consistent, but, in one
respect, glaringly defective, will be seen. It is
true, that deistical diligence has worked out a
being, in whom are many beautiful traits of
character. It is one of their own making; and
is nothing more than a melange of whatever
pleased them in the gods of heathen idolatry,
and in the Author of Christianity. But one
feature condemns this creature of fancy ; and
this is, that justice does not hold a part in its
character. The violated law, whether of nature
or of revelation, is overlooked by the Deist's
God; whereas, Conscientiousness, a primitive
faculty of man's mind, calls aloud for punish-
ment upon every offender against any just com-
mands. The Deists represent God as merciful,
but not as just. Of this Deity, our faculties,
unbiassed, cannot allow ; and man cannot, by
their unanimous consent, bow before such a
being ; for, though it is true that God is a God
of mercy, he is enabled to show forth this lovely
trait, only as connected with justice. Deists
72
boast of leaving to Christians the God of reve-
lation, and taking to themselves the God of
nature ; but, if this view be correct, they em-
brace a shadow, not a substance ; a being,
neither in nature nor in revelation.
As yet, the glorious object has not dawned.
Are we left in this unpleasant deficiency ? Is
there no being on whom our Conscientiousness,
Benevolence, Hope, Causality, Comparison,
Cautiousness, and Love of approbation will
alight ? Is there no being in whom Justice,
Mercy, Glory, Infinity, Power, and Holiness
shine forth as constituent features ? We have
such a Being, who is the God of revelation.
In order to prove this, we must have recourse
to revelation itself, and take its testimonies
concerning its Author.
As a prominent feature, we find the Unity of
the Deity. * Equally so are the attributes of
Love (indeed it is said, " God is love"), Mer-
cy,! Goodness, | Wisdom, § Power, || Omnipre-
* Exod. xx. 3; Deut. iv. 35. 39.
t Exod. xxxiv. 6 ; Joel xi. 13 ; 2 Cor. i. 3.
$ Psalm lxxxvi. 5 ; Psalm cxlv. 9.
§ Psalm xliv ; Acts xv. 18 ; Heb. iv. 13 ; Psalm civ. 24.
||
Igaiah xiv. 24; Dan. iii. 17, 29; Rom. i. 20.
73
sence,* Immutability,t Justice, t and Holiness. §
Wc are taught that He is every where — that
nothing is hidden from his eye — and that He
will briiiT everv secret thing to light, whether
it be good or evil. The Christian's God is
represented as being ''jealous''
5
of His honor,
and will not give his glory to another. This,
and all other traits in the God of revelation,
our faculties, unbiassed, delight to contemplate.
It is here that Veneration finds its resting-
place; here, alone, that happiness is to be
found ; here, that the creature discovers the
image in which he was created.
It is hoped that the truth of the fourth prop-
osition is now fully seen : That it will appear,
that man, being constrained by the constitution
of his mind to worship some being, can ap-
prove of the God of Christianity only as
the fit object of worship,
I am well aware that objections may be
started against this view, by having recourse
* Psalm exxxix. 7.
t Malachi iii. 6 ; James i. 17.
$ Gen. xviii. 25 ; Deut. xxxii. 4; Rev. xv. S.
§ Lev. xix. 2 ; 1 Sam. ii. 2 ; Isaiah vi. 3 ; Rev. iv. 8.
74
to the particular character of the God of reve-
lation, as exhibited in the facts forming the
foundations of Christianity ; but, as this part
of the argument embraces merely the general
character ; and as the nature of these facts will
be fully illustrated hereafter, the conclusion
remains indisputable, that the God of Christi-
anity, as to his general character, is the only
one approved of by our unbiassed faculties;
and, being so, we are justified in concluding,
that the Author of this system is the Creator of
our frames, the Former of our mental constitu-
tion.
Well, then, may the Christian disciple adopt
the language of Paul and say, " For though
there be indeed, what, by the heathen are called
gods, whether in heaven or in earth ; as there
are in their estimation many gods and many
lords, yet to us there is but one God, the
Father, from whom all things are, and we are
formed for him ; and one Lord, Jesus Christ,
by whom all things are, and we are saved by
him." — 1 Corinthians viii. 5, 6.
PART II
Having proved that the unbiassed decision
of the intellectual and moral faculties leads to
the approval of the God of Christianity as the
object of adoration, because that God is, in His
attributes, one that can admit of the activity of
the whole of these faculties ; and having shown
that man, instead of bowing in reverence be-
fore this his Maker, has bended his knee before
a Venus, a deification of lust ; a Mars, an
emblem of war and all its horrors ; a Jupiter,
a similitude of a buccaneer, despising laws
civil, domestic, and religious ; and others
equally bad ; it naturally arises as a question,
how has this taken place ? And when we see,
in addition, that man still bows before the
creatures of his lust, before some inferior ob-
ject, which he considers perfection, the question
is still more powerfully pressed home, and an
76
impulsive feeling leads to the inquiry, how it is
that the world by wisdom knew not God ?
The replies to these inquiries, as well as
other important points, will be treated of in
this, the second part of the dissertation ; and,
in order that this paradox may be unravelled,
the argument drawn from the particular char-
acter of God, as exhibited in the means for
obtaining and preserving his favor, coinciding
with the constitution of the human mind as
demonstrated by Phrenology, will be brought
forward and illustrated.
The fifth proposition to be examined is,
That man naturally can do nothing good
in the sight of God, and that Christianity
recognises this inability.
It has been hinted, that in the earlier ages of
Greece and Rome, some faint ideas of one wise
and intelligent Being are perceptible. This,
no doubt, was the result of the faculties which,
unbiassed, lead to the God of Christianity as
the fit object for adoration, not being totally
77
overpowered by the animal propensities. Still
the ignorance respecting the Supreme was gen-
eral ; so much so, that Lactantius says of Plato,
" Plato somniaverat Deum, non cognoverat ;
"
" Plato had dreamed about, but had not known,
God." And Seneca remarks, " Nemo novit
Deum ; multi de illo male existimant et impu-
ne." Ep. xxxi. " No one has known God ;
many think wickedly and without punishment
respecting him." So great, however, was the
blindness, that even the Jews themselves, who
were favored by revelations from the God of
Christianity, continually forgot him, and fell
into the idolatries of the surrounding nations.
Seeing, then, that the faculties, unbiassed,
lead to the choice of the God of Christianity,
and bearing in mind the fact, that none have
ever chosen this Being, we must conclude in
the existence of a general change in human
nature, and that for the worse. Indeed, in any
way to account for this ignorance of man, we
must conclude that some evil change has taken
place in his mental constitution; and the des-
perately wicked nature of this is shown in the
effect, that it has alienated his mind from
God.
78
In order that we may be enabled to under-
stand more fully the matters treated of in the
fourth proposition, a few remarks will be made
upon the nature of this change.
In order to investigate this important subject,
it is necessary to remark, that Phrenology
proves we have certain mental faculties, belong-
ing also to animals, and others, peculiarly our
own. The former form what has been called
the " animal nature," the latter, the " human
nature;" and the principal of these latter to
be noticed are Benevolence, Veneration, Con-
scientiousness, and the intellectual reflective
faculties. Through the following paces the
terms are used in these senses. A similar dis-
tinction exists in the Bible : the " animal na-
ture " being designated by the word " flesh,"
" the human," by the name " spirit." The
animal nature is, according to the observations
of phrenologists, the predominating, and calls
into obedience to its dictates all the other fac-
ulties. This, intended to give force to the
human, and to be under its sway, has (as is
proved by the fact, that no one has chosen the
God approved of by the faculties constituting
the latter nature) gained the ascendency; has
79
taken the rein, and lashes man on to misery and
destruction. The effect of this is, that the
moral sentiments, Benevolence, Veneration,
Conscientiousness, &c, constituting an impor-
tant part of the human nature, instead of being
directed to God, as being love, (the proper object
of Benevolence ;) as being just, (the suited end
for Conscientiousness ;) as being above all, (the
lawful outlet of Veneration;) as being unchange-
able, (the delight of Hope ;) are made to be
subservient to Adhesiveness, so as to make us
supremely attached to friends ; to love of Appro-
bation, to render us obsequiously kind to the
great ; and to Cautiousness, to make us just.
And, from the evidence of the fact already estab-
lished, such is the sway these animal propensities
have gained, that, unless man is delivered by
some extraordinary power from their thraldom,
he cannot direct the human nature to the proper
object. It appears, then, that our animal nature
is continually opposing our human, and the one
prevents the other from following its own course.
Thus the author of Christianity observes, " That
light is come into the world, and men loved dark-
ness rather than light, because their deeds were
evil;" or, in phrenological language, a being
80
came into the world, who was actuated by Benev-
olence, Conscientiousness, and Veneration in the
highest degree : that men, who lived and acted
under the influence of their animal nature, did
not love this exhibition of the supremacy of the
human; and, that being so biassed, they would
not receive the deliverance offered, but preferred
to remain under the thraldom of the animal dis-
positions. And the continual opposition between
these two natures is testified to, by an apostle,
who says, the " flesh lusteth against the spirit,
and the spirit against the flesh ;
" and who in-
forms us also, that " the carnal mind is enmity
against God, and is not subject to the law of
God, neither indeed can be." And, so powerful
is the effect of the animal nature, that " there is
none that understandeth, there is none that seek-
eth after God," Rom. iii. 2, Ephes. iv. 18, as
has been shown.
As long, then, as the supremacy is maintained
by the animal nature, so long man can do noth-
ing good in the sight of God ; for it has been
proved by phrenology, that unless actions are
performed from the motives arising from Benevo-
lence, Conscientiousness, and Veneration, there
is in them nothing virtuous. The reason of this
81
depends upon a phrenological principle, that all
the faculties, but the three just mentioned, have
self for their object. For illustrations, see Phre-
nological Journal, Vol. iii. No. 12. Now, it is
well known, that wherever self is concerned, no
virtue can exist ; for virtue is ascribed only to
those actions which result from Benevolence,
Veneration, and Conscientiousness, faculties, not
having self directly as their aim. These three
have a relation to God, producing, in their un-
biassed exercise, love to God ; and, in their rela-
tion to man, love to man ; the two great prin-
ciples of the moral law. We here see the
superiority of the human nature over the animal ;
and have the most striking evidence of the change
in man, and of the fact, that he can do nothing
good in the sight of God, when we consider that
the animal nature holds over these an almost
unlimited sway, preventing the moral sentiments
free exercise in loving God and in loving man.
The necessity of these three faculties being
exercised in doing any thing good in the sight
of God, is borne witness to by the Scriptures.
The prophet Micah thus writes, he " hath showed
thee, O man, what is good ; and what doth the
Lord require of thee, but to dojustly (the dictate
82
of Conscientiousness), and to love mercy (the
dictate of Benevolence), and to walk humbly
with thy God (the dictate of Veneration), ch.
vi. 8. The prophet Hosea gives the same view ;
" Therefore turn- thou to thy God : keep mercy
and judgment, and wait on thy God continu-
ally," ch. xii. 6. Jesus Christ gives the same
interpretation of what is good in the sight of
God. He is reproving the Pharisees, " Woe unto
you, Scribes and Pharisees, Hypocrites ! for ye
pay tithe of mint, anise, and cummin, and have
omitted the weightier matters of the law, judg-
ment, mercy, and faith (outgoings of Conscien-
tiousness, Benevolence, Veneration, and Hope) ;
these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the
other undone. " Matt, xxiii. 23.
Herein is a striking coincidence between the
decisions of phrenological science, and the dicta
of Christianity : the former, affording a positive
proof of the doctrine of the latter, that man can
do nothing good in the sight of God ; an inabil-
ity dependant upon the fact, that the animal pro-
pensities rule ; a dominion constituting a corrupt
bias, attended with the misdirection of Benevo-
lence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness, by the
proper direction of which, only, good can be
brought out.
83
It thus appears that man can do nothing good
in the sight of God. But this is not the whole
extent of the evil; for man is of necessity evil:
and though some maintain that man can love and
worship God, when he likes * so to do, this is a
false position, as will be immediately shown.
* Yes ; when he likes to do so, he can ; but the truth
is, that he never does like to do so, while the predomi-
nance of his animal nature continues; and, moreover,
while that predominance continues he never can " like,"
to love and worship God : just as, while hatred predomi-
nates, towards a man, we never can love him. Yet we
say " a man can love if he likes ; but the difficulty con-
sists in making, or enabling him to like. In the case of
the soul exercising love to God, the excellency of the
Christian religion consists, in its adaptednessand ability to
overcome the hostility of man to God ;
— that is, to over-
power the " animal nature," by exciting to activity the
" human nature." This it does, by the exhibitions it
makes, of the benevolence of God. When this is revealed
to the Moral Sentiments, through the Intellect, by the
Holy Spirit — "We love Him, because He first loved
us." We then, "like "or choose to love him, in fact,
and the position is not a false one, that we can love God
if we like. Against this position, thus explained, the
pious author has, elsewhere, shown, that he would not
object. Am. Ed.
84
Necessity is a word, which, on account of the
different meanings attached to it, needs explana-
tion. By necessity, I mean, that man acts from
certain fixed principles, the laws of his nature.
These laws have such an influence, and are so
unbending, that, whenever actions are conforma-
ble thereto, happiness is the result ; when not,
misery is the consequence. The physical world
is guided by fixed laws; or is, in other words,
under necessity. Thus, as long as the law of
gravitation acts, the earth and other planets must
roll round the sun. So it is in the mental world.
Certain laws have been fixed to guide our facul-
ties, and we must act according to them. Let
not the reader be startled : for, with all humil-
ity be it said, the Creator himself is under this
kind of necessity ; for He cannot look upon sin
but with the greatest abhorrence and detestation.
It has been seen, that the animal nature gives its
dictates contrary to the dictates of the human
an evidence of an evil change ; and it has been
proved by observation, that the power of the
former is supreme. As long then as it retains
this supremacy, so long must man act in a way
contrary to the dictates of the human nature;
and as it is only when the actions are dictated
85
by the latter that they are good, it is evident that
man is, of necessity, evil.
It may perhaps be said, that by cultivating
the moral sentiments and intellectual faculties,
and adopting every method to diminish the ani-
mal propensities, we may at length rear up a
power capable of resisting the predominating
influence of the last class of faculties. No
doubt ; but what means, in the present state of
society, can be efficacious in realizing this? The
efficacy of the means commonly made use of will
be shown in the examination of the fifth proposi-
tion ; wherein the means, which God has
proffered for this purpose, will be investi-
gated. Man, therefore, is a creature, of neces-
sitv, evil; and this part of the subject will be
closed by an example, wherein the impossibility
of his changing the evil direction, and conse-
quently the necessary evil tendency of his nature,
are most strikingly seen. It is taken from Jewish
History. The people of Israel had been deliv-
ered by wondrous miracles from Pharaoh's pow-
er ; the sea had separated in their presence ;
manna had been showered upon them from
heaven ; they had seen water gush out of the
solid rock ;
yet, in spite of all these exhibitions
8
86
of divine power, they, after the absence of Moses
in the mount for forty days, called upon Aaron
to make a calf that they might worship it. And
what is more, this very people, some centuries
after, in spite of having suffered numberless
afflictions for leaving the worship of the true
God, are thus complained of in the book contain-
ing their history ;
" My people ask counsel at
their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them."
Hosea iv. 12. Can there be a stronger evidence
of the necessarily evil tendency of the mind of
man ?
The second part of this proposition, That
Christianity recognises us in this state,
is now for consideration. In proof of this, all
that is necessary will be to bring forward a few
statements contained in the volume in which
this system is embodied. So abundant are these,
that the only difficulty is, which to select. The
apostle Paul, writing to the Romans, makes the
following statements, not, as his own, but as the
words of inspiration; "We have before proved
both Jews and Gentiles, that they all are under
87
sin ; as it is written, *
there is none righteous,
no, not one. There is none that understandeth ;
there is none that seeketh after God. They are
all gone out of the way ; they are together be-
come unprofitable ; there is none that clocth good,
no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre ;
with their tongues they have used deceit ; the
poison of asps is under their lips; whose mouth is
full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are
swift to shed blood ; destruction and misery are
in their ways ; and the way of peace have they
not known. There is no fear of God before
their eyes.'
5;
Rom. iii. 9-19. And it is re-
lated in Genesis vi. 5, " And God saw that the
wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his
heart was only evil continually" The word,
translated imagination, embraces not only imagi-
nation, but also the purposes and desires. No
language can be more special ; and, when we
add to the above, the forcible inquiries, " Can
the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his
spots?" it cannot be doubted that the doctrine
of man being necessarily evil, that is, as con-
nected with any means of his own, for deliver-
ance, is a feature of the Christian system. And
88
as an additional proof, the Christian is taught,
that he is unable to do any thing good of himself.
John xv. 4.
The sixth proposition is now to be considered.
It is this, — That the means to be employed
TO OBTAIN AND PRESERVE God's FAVOR ARE
IN CONFORMITY TO THE CHARACTER OF MAN, AS
NECESSARILY EVIL.
It has been already stated, that the end of all
religions is to obtain the favor of God, and that
their subject consists of the means to be em-
ployed for the obtainment. How then shall a
creature, necessarily evil, obtain the favor of
his Creator, who is necessarily good ? If we
review the black pages of ancient history, we
shall find many means made use of, alike repug-
nant to reason, and to humanity. Men, not con-
tent with sacrificing their flocks and herds to
appease and propitiate the offended deity, have
immolated their children,* a practice which our
* In South Africa, in the Felatah country, Mr. Old-
field, who accompanied Lander in his two expeditions up
89
mental constitution will never permit us to con-
sider as suited to satisfy the justice of a just and
good God. Our Benevolence cries out against
the latter; and, against the former, Causality
and Comparison protest the absurdity of offering
to God, as an atonement for offences, that which
is God's own.
As to man doing any thing for himself, this is
impossible. All that he does is evil. He cannot
be justified by the deeds of the law, because he
cannot do them ; his very constitutional corrup-
tion leading him continually to violate the first
commandment, which enjoins a perfect love of
God ; the duty, to the performance of which his
unbiassed faculties lead. If, then, man does
obtain the favor of God, it must be in a way
that requires nothing to be done on his part : it
must be something that will overcome the enmity
of his heart, and make all his affections run into
that original channel in which they flowed when
he was first created. Is the plan which Chris-
tianity recognises, as efficient to obtain the Divine
the Niger, informed the writer, it is common now to offer
the bodies often men at a time, as a sacrifice to the god
of the river, or to some of the gods of the country.
8*
90
favor, in accordance hereto ? It is : nothing is
required of man but what the most degraded is
capable of: man is commanded to believe the
testimony of God. This is all in all : this is
the first step to favor, indeed it is the only step.
The testimony is this :
" God so loved the world,
that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoso-
ever believeth on him should not perish, but have
everlasting life." Such is the nature of this testi-
mony, that whosoever accounts it as a faithful
saying, and worthy of all acceptation, is so
changed, that he is said to be born again. The
carnal mind, or animal nature, is made to fall
under the dominion of the spiritual, or human
nature ; and the man thus renewed from being
a hater, becomes a lover, of God. Being thus
brought under the sway of the moral sentiments
and intellectual faculties, actions now spring
from these sources ; Benevolence, Veneration,
and Conscientiousness, conjoined with the Intel-
lect, being busily engaged in exciting to pur-
suits, having the love of God and the love of man
for their source, and the glory of the Creator and
the happiness of the creature for their end.
A question now occurs, how can it be proved,
that these means are efficacious in producing this
91
change, and its effects? For, lamentable indeed
it is, if we were to judge on this point from the
lives of many of the professed disciples of Christ,
the conclusion must be, that the means are un-
able to bring about the end : but we shall leave
these characters, to consider the doctrine.
Phienology demonstrates, that, in the human
mind, Benevolence Veneration, Conscientious-
ness, Hope, Causality, and Comparison, and
other intellectual faculties, exist; and that these,
their proper excitement being applied, must act.
Kindness must excite Benevolence ; a deed of
justice must awaken Conscientiousness ; and so,
with the rest. The emotion produced, moreover,
will have a strength just in the proportion in
which the faculty is large, and the exciting object
influential; which influence will depend upon the
object being clearly perceived. It has been
shown, in addition, that the human is under the
influence of the animal nature. Now, in order
to deliver the former from the thraldom of the
latter, it is necessary that such an influential ex-
hibition of goodness, justice, and wisdom should
be presented to the human nature, consisting
of the above faculties, as to impart to them a
power sufficient to overcome the bias of the ani-
92
mal. The facts of Christianity, regarding the
means of obtaining God's favor, present this
exhibition, and this must act in the way required,
from the very constitution of the mind. This is
boldly averred; as, from this constitution, Inno-
cence, suffering for the guilty, pleads to Benevo-
lence with a force that is irresistible; the Law-
giver, bearing the punishment due to those who
had broken His law, obliges Conscientiousness to
be no longer dormant ; and the deliverance from
the curse of the broken law, makes Hope to
rejoice, and Cautiousness to cease its anxieties :
except in so far, that now the fear is one depen-
dant upon Benevolence and Veneration, a filial
fear ; whereas, formerly it depended upon the
faculty itself, and on Conscientiousness, being a
fear of bondage. It thus appears, that the facts
of Christianity must produce the effects stated ;
and that the force of these facts is so great, as to
overcome the bias of the animal nature, and to
enable the human to bring every thought into
subjection to God.
It was remarked, that the influence of these
facts depended upon their being clearly per-
ceived. The want of their clear perception has
made many persons, professing Christianity, to
93
remain with their hearts unchanged ; or, in other
words, still to live under the power of their animal
nature; the imperfect view they received not
being sufficient to overcome the bias of the said
nature. This shows the necessity of some en-
lightening influence, to free the eyes from the
scales which cover them ; and in this view
Christianity coincides ; for we are perpetually
told of the necessity of the Holy Spirit, who con-
vinces " the world of sin, of righteousness, and
of judgment." It is, therefore, to be maintained,
that the perception is to be made clear; that is,
a power, superadded to the facts of Christianity
is necessary to clear the power of the mental
vision, to perceive the facts ; and that the Holy
Spirit is necessary, not because the truth is in-
sufficient in itself, but because the opposition of
the depraved misdirection of man's faculties can
be overcome only by the facts being clearly
viewed ; which clearness of view can be obtained
only through the agency of the Holy Spirit. A
man on the brink of a precipice, and perceiving
that he is about to fall, is thankful to his deliv-
erer, or to one who offers deliverance : but one
lying in a state of torpor, is angry that he is
disturbed, though the next moment his limbs
94
should be scattered to the winds. So it is with
men, respecting the truths of Christianity. One
principal part of their animal nature is self-
esteem : this, biassed, leads to self-confidence and
pride, and prevents man from perceiving his real
condition. In order to overcome this blinding
influence, and to enable him to see the danger
to which he is exposed, the Spirit of God is nec-
essary to convince him of sin; or, in other words,
so much to alter the bias of this faculty, as to
prevent it from impeding his view. Hence it is,
that humility is the characteristic of every one
who has been so delivered ; and the Author of
the Christian system remarks, " Except ye be
as little children, ye cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven." How strikingly the natural laws agree
with the revealed !
It may here, perhaps, be brought forward as
a question: — When the moral sentiments are
small, how can we expect the facts of Christian-
ity to communicate to them such a power, as will
enable their dictations to be superior to those of
the animal propensities? To this it is replied,
that an habitually selfish man often, under the
influence of a peculiarly powerful motive, does a
generous deed. The performance of this deed
95
depends upon the power of the motive exciting
to action. So with Christians with small moral
sentiments. The facts of Christianity present so
powerful a motive exciting these, that their dicta-
tions become more potent than those of the ani-
mal nature. Every one, moreover, acknowledges
the difference between Christians. We have
some meek Christians : some impetuous : some
zealous : some timid and retiring : some deep-
*
thinking: others more superficial in their mental
exercises. These differences are to be ascribed
to their previous mental constitution, the essen-
tial nature of which is not destroyed, but
merely altered in its direction. Thus Paul was
the same zealous, fearless, intellectual being after,
as before, his conversion.
An important question now presents itself;
Can this deliverance from the thraldom of the
animal propensities be effected by any other
means ? Philosophy has boasted that it can. By
cultivating the intellect, and studying works of
taste, the wise man of this world refines his
character : a delicacy is acquired, which makes
its possessor scorn every thing gross in manners,
and base in principle. He pursues the path of
morality, not so much from loving it, as from
96
an opposite journey being beneath his dignity.
Thus his Self-esteem is his grand support ; and
though " he is as far removed from the grade of
the sensualist, as the lion is from that of the mole,
still both are unregenerated animal nature." Ac-
cording to this system of deliverance, no Benevo-
lence is excited, no Conscientiousness is awak-
ened, no Veneration is called forth. These are
allowed still to wander from their proper object
:
and the man, instead of being humbled, is
puffed up ; for " knowledge puffeth up, but love
edifieth."
It will be thus seen, that modern philosophy
cannot change the bias ; and we have sufficient
evidence, that ancient philosophy did not pro-
duce any such renewal ; and we must, therefore,
conclude, that as Christianity will, it is the only
system that can have this effect. Indeed, bear-
ing this in mind, we may with justice say of
those philosophers, who try to bring about this
change by their own means, " Behold, all ye
that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about
with sparks ; walk in the light of your fire, and
in the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall
ye have of mine hand ;
ye shall lie down in sor-
row." Isa. 1. 11.
97
Christianity, then, produces its effects by en-
lightening the mind, and gives such a powerful
impulse to Benevolence, Veneration, and Con-
scientiousness, as to enable them to overcome
the power of the animal propensities, which,
when 'predominantly active, not only iceaken, but
blind the former. This change being produced,
man is enabled to do good in the sight of God ;
that is, as long as he acts from his human facul-
ties. But as the animal propensities still re-
main, and are ever inclined to wander in the old
direction, to assume their original sway, it is
necessary that the objects presented by Christi-
anity should ever be kept in view ; because it is
only by attending to this, that the power neces-
sary to the human faculties to resist the attempt
of conquest over them, can be preserved. In
conformity to this view, the Christian is com-
manded " to live by faith; " that is, he is contin-
ually to bear in mind the glorious truths forming
the foundation of the Christian system, which
are so many motives exciting to generous activ-
ity his moral sentiments. It thus appears, that
faith is the beginning of every thing good in the
6ight of God ; and Christianity testifies, that
" whatsoever is not of faith is sin." Rom. xiv.
9
98
23 : and Christians are further commanded to
add to their faith virtue. Indeed, so necessary-
is this faith, that it must be the principle of life;
for a person cannot be said to live by it, unless
it acts in him as the source of all his actions.
This proposition is thus established ; and the
accordance between Phrenology and Christi-
anity has been seen ; an accordance in examin-
ing the last part of this proposition, to be seen
more fully.
The obtaining of God's favor is, therefore, the
first step towards the right performance of any
Christian duty. The love to God, and the love
of man, produced by the faith, induce an earnest
desire to preserve the favor thus obtained. Be-
nevolence having been excited, rejoices in obedi-
ence ; and, in order to obey, the Christian
attends to the command of the Being, whose love
has excited his faculties to love, and to study the
word of God; to take it as a lamp to his path,
and a light to his way. The believer, in exam-
ining the Scriptures, finds his own feelings em-
bodied in the two short sentences, " Thou shalt
love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
99
soul, and mind ;
" and " thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself." And, to prevent him from
erring in the application of these precepts, the
word of God is full of instructions, adapted to
every circumstance of life. In the performance
of these two duties, the faculties which are su-
preme, are Benevolence, Veneration, Conscien-
tiousness, Hope, and Ideality, with Causality and
Comparison. These have now obtained the
sway ; but still the animal nature exists, and,
though now brought under the power of those
faculties constituting the human, is continually
inclined to run into the old channel ; to rush
into the service of sklf, rather than to be
drawn into the noble employment of God and
max. Indeed, though the power communi-
cated by belief is sufficient, by the use of the
means appointed, to overcome the animal na-
ture, yet the power of the latter is not totally
destroyed. The old man is crucified, not dead ;
indeed, he cannot expire till this corruption is
put off, and incorruption put on. The combat,
therefore, must be continual. Christianity re-
cognises this; the life of the Christian being
compared to a fight, a race. The Christian is
told, moreover, that " the flesh lusteth against
100
the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh :
u and
one of the most remarkable disciples of Christ
exclaimed, in the agony of the conflict, " O
wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me
from the body of this death V
The enemies of the Christian are not confined
to himself. He has other foes ; and it is now
to be shown, phrenologically, that as long as the
Christian is such, and the world is the world, he
must suffer persecution ; so long must the asser-
tion of inspiration be verified, " Yea, and all that
will live godly in Christ Jesus, shall suffer perse-
cution." 2 Tim. iii. 12.
It appears from the observations made upon
the fifth proposition, and the former part of this,
that the animal nature preponderates over the
human ; and, that as long as this holds the su-
premacy, so long does man act from motives
purely selfish. It is evident, then, that as in the
majority of the human race, the animal nature
is predominant, the institutions of society will
be opposed to the human nature. This applies
less to the fixed laws of justice, than to the cus-
toms and the modes of society. For the very
safety of the commonwealth makes legislators to
frame laws upon the broad principles of equity ;
101
although, even in our legal code, we find maxims,
regulations, and practices recognised, quite op-
posed to sound reason and to liberty. Reference
is made to test-acts, game-laws, and the sangui-
nary punishments inflicted upon offenders.* But,
for our present purpose, the opinions, the modes,
and the customs of general society will afford
abundant illustrations.
It is an opinion generally held, that the love
of distinction, honor, and fame is proper, enno-
bling, and worthy of man. Every public building
teems with images, before which, as representing
illustrious dead, the youth of our land are taught
to bow, and aspire at imitation. A Nelson is
deified in one place, a Pitt in another, and a
Fox in another. A Mansfield has a niche in the
Legal Temple, a Curran in another, and a
Brougham in a third. Indeed, everything is pre-
sented to the sight, and through it to the imagi-
nation, to cultivate a longing for immortality, not
in the pure regions of never ending bliss, but in
* It will, of course, be understood that the author refers
to the laws of his own country ; and to the modifications
which they give to society in that country. Let us be
grateful for the degree in which our situation is superior
>to that of the Mother-Country. Am. Ed.
9*
102
the memory of man, itself to cease. To the bold
and adventurous, fortune hangs out all her lau-
rels ; the path of the peaceful virtue is the way
of silence, and the destructive conqueror holds
the highest pinnacle of fame. Christianity for-
bids seeking* these honors, or desiring this
fame, which comes from man. Higher objects
are presented to the grasp of the Christian. He
is commanded to seek not the honor that cometh
from the world. Yet, in passing through this state
of existence, many and powerful are the tempta-
tions, having the tendency to lead his mind in
the improper channel, and to make him seek the
approbation of men rather than of God.
Again : the world holds, that it is just to re-
taliate injuries. Christianity maintains quite a
different sentiment. " Love your enemies," is
its precept. " Do good to them that despitefully
use you," is another of its injunctions. In the
world, dueling is fashionable; for although de-
* Christianity does not bid a man to reject these hon-
ors, if they come to him in the course of the performance
of his duty. This mistaking the arrival of the honors, as
a consequence of proper conduct, for the seeking of the
honors themselves, has produced much disquiet in the
minds of the good.
103
nounced, in the public press, as a general prac-
tice, yet in individual cases, the duelists meet
with approbation ; the excuse being, that they
were obliged, by circumstances, to attempt to
precipitate one another into the presence of a
holy, good, and just God !
" It is remarkable," says Dr. Spurzheim (Phi-
losophy of Phrenology, p. 50), " that all codes,
revealed or profane, with one exception, have
declared the amor patrice, or love of country, a
principal virtue. The Christian doctrine alone
acknowledged no exclusionary patriotism : it
alone commands universal love." Herein we see
another point in which Christianity differs from
the general opinions of mankind. And here we
meet with an important confirmation of the
necessity of faith, previous to attempting the per-
formance of any Christian duty ; for, in order to
feel this universal love, taught so simply and
beautifully in the parable of the good Samaritan,
it is necessary that the human nature be su-
preme ; whereas, in none but Christians it is so.
The necessity of this supremacy is evident, when
we consider, that this love of country is the re-
sult of a mere animal propensity, common not
only to man, but dogs, cats, and other species of
animals.
104
Again : in Christianity it is a doctrine, that
father and mother, brother and sister, are not to
stand in comparison with Christ. And the evan-
gelist informs us, that when the mother of Jesus
wished to see him, he replied, that all who did
the will of his Father, were his mother, his sis-
ters, and his brethren. This doctrine has always
sounded harsh to the ears of men ; but when we
remember, that the love of parents, children,
relations, and friends is merely, in its origin,
the result of the animal nature, and is com-
mon to ourselves and beasts ; whereas the love of
God, and obedience (its effect) are the consequen-
ces of the supremacy of the human nature — we
see the justness of the command. In fine, the
love of the one is to be put aside, when that
love interferes with the activity of the higher
feelings. Why do men admire the conduct of
Brutus in condemning his own sons? For this *
subjugation.
* Perhaps not, strictly, for this subjugation : but for
one which approximates it: viz. the subjugation of a
personal feeling to a national one : i. e. the preference
of a general to a personal good. Am. Ed.
105
Another prominent feature in Christianity is,
that he that is the humblest is the greatest. This
is quite in conformity with the predominance of
the human, over the animal nature ; for the love
of superiority is dependant upon animal desires,
namely, Love of Approbation and Self-Esteem ;•'
whereas, Humility originates in Benevolence -and
Veneration, guided by the intellect. Who can
say, that the feature referred to is, at all gener-
ally, recognised by mankind, as a practical
truth ?
Indeed, a volume could be filled with instan-
ces, in which the precepts of the world and those
of the gospel are at variance. And so diametrical
is the opposition, that the God of Christianity as-
serts, " If any man love the world, the love of
the Father is not in him." 1 John ii. 15.
Not only is the world opposed, but the devil
also. With respect to the opposition hence aris-
ing, this is known, that it is great. And how-
ever much the songs of poets, the scoffs of the
vulgar, and the moderating and temporalizing
doctrines, and dignified sneers of philosophers,
may have had the tendency to strip this enemy
of man of his horrible character, and, thereby,
to blind men to his nature, the Christian holds it
106
as an undeniable truth, because the God whom
he loves says so, that this being, as a roaring
J ion, goes about seeking whom he may devour.
The devil is continually on the watch —he
knows every one's weak point—tries one scheme,
and then another, to seduce the Christian. At
one -time, he uses poverty, and its unpleasant
attendants; at another, presumption ; and when
he finds them to fail, has recourse to prosperity
and all its blandishments. This is the series of
trials to which he had recourse, in tempting Jesus
Christ, the Christian's great Exemplar, in the
wilderness. It would be inconsistent with the
limits of this dissertation to be more minute ; and
we may close by remarking, that though an
enemy to all mankind, he is peculiarly so to the
Christian, often transforming himself into an
angel of light, to lead the follower of the Lamb
from the fold of God.
Such are the enemies with which the Chris-
tian has to cope. It now remains to be shown,
that the means, appointed for defence, are
such as will be sufficient to enable him to make
a successful resistance.
It has already been hinted, that the Christian's
life is a fight : in conformity with this, he is said
107
" to fight the good fight of faith." How, then,
is he enabled to maintain this combat? It ha9
been proved, that man is a creature of necessity,
and that this necessity, naturally, is towards evil.
It has also been proved, that when a believer of
the gospel, his faculties are directed into a differ-
ent channel ; but that he is still the same weak
character as he was before. He is unable, of
himself, to do any thing good, as formerly. For
though he loves good and God, yet, without
assistance from above, so strong is the tendency
of the animal desires, that, though to will is
present with him, to perform he finds is not.
But, according to the principles of Phrenology,
as regarding necessity, as long as the love of
God is the predominating motive, so long must
the Christian, as far as he knows it, walk in the
path of duty ; for " the love of God constraineth
us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts, and to
walk soberly, righteously, and godly in this pres-
ent evil world." Hence the necessity of being
steadfast in faith, by which this love is continu-
ally kept before the mind ; and hence the forci-
ble beauty of the doctrine of the apostle Paul,
" Thou standest by faith," (Rem. xi. iCO )and of
the duty of living " by faith."
108
The love of God is, therefore, the moving
spring in the machinery of the movements of the
Christian's life. From the influence, however,
of dampening unbelief, and the enervating op-
pressiveness of the atmosphere of the world, in
which the lover of God is, to a certain extent,
obliged to move, this spring is liable to want of
force and due vigor. How, then, may its tone
be preserved ? It may rust : how is its polish
to be kept untarnished] Or if tarnished, to be
restored ? These questions are now to be an-
swered ; and in answering them, an opportunity
will be afforded, of showing some striking accord-
ances between Phrenology and Christianity,
since, in the means employed, we shall find the
faculties demonstrated by the former science,
continually appealed to.
These means may be reduced under four
heads ;
precepts, example, rewards, and punish-
ments ; the first, deriving their authority, in guid-
ing the Christian, from Benevolence, and approved
of by the intellectual faculties ; the second ap-
'
pealing to Imitation ; and the third to Hope,
Cautiousness, and Love of Approbation. With
respect to the precepts ;
" All Scripture," the
Christian is taught, " is profitable for doctrine,
109
for correction, for instruction in righteousness."
It is thence that he draws his rules of conduct.
One prominent precept is, the loving of those who
show their love to God by obeying his commands :
" By this shall all men know that ye are my dis-
ciples, if ye have love one to another." This
leads the Christian to seek out those, who evi-
dence, by their obedience to the ordinances that
Christ has appointed, and by a profession of faith
in his name, their love to Him. His Benevolence
is delighted in contemplating them, as being
sharers, together with himself, in the Saviour's
love. His Adhesiveness seizes them as objects
of attachment, and, urged on by this faculty, he
delights in meeting with them, upon every fa-
vorable opportunity. Thus meeting, they form
a Christian assembly ; and after attending to the
precepts given for the regulation of themselves,
they become a Christian Church, and meet to-
gether on the first day of the week for breaking
of bread (or the Lord's supper), for prayers, and
other ordinances, appointed by Christ to be ob-
served by his disciples. They do not " forsake
the assembling of themselves together, and ex-
horting one another." And, in obeying these pre-
cepts, the Christian's faith, and consequently his
10
110
means of resisting temptation, become strength-
ened. The faculties of his mind become more
habituated to the proper, but new, channel in
which they run ; and the determination of pur-
pose, in the pursuit of what is holy and acceptable
in the sight of God, acquired by this communion
of soul, is astonishing, and is dependant upon a
fixed principle of Phrenology —that the faculties
are strengthened by exercise. The faculty of
Veneration finds daily more ease in running in
its proper channel : the Christian traces the fea-
tures of his God in every thing ; indeed, he reads
his Father's name written on all creation. His
Benevolence becomes more active, from an in-
creased discovery of the love of Christ, and from
the sacred influence of the love of the brother-
hood ; and the instructions and exhortations, re-
ceived in the church, are such, that he is built
up in his most holy faith, and grows in the
knowledge and love of God. Daily he obtains
fresh victories over his enemy, and finds, that
the attempt " to keep under his ichole body," and
to bring it more and more into subjection to the'
law of Christ, becomes continually more easy.
Fresh discoveries are made, every day, of need
of divine assistance ; of pardon for sins ; and, in
Ill
the contemplation of the fulness of Christ, the
soul feels all its joy to exist, and its possessor
rejoices evermore, on finding, that where sin hath
abounded, grace doth much more abound. His
Benevolence is necessarily excited more and
more ; an enlarged desire to live to the glory of
God is produced in the mind, and the soul in-
creases in the abhorrence of what is evil, and in
the love of what is good.
And, in addition, let it be remarked, that the
tie upon which the mutual love of Christians is
founded, is one which depends on the moral
sentiments i it is that of loving their Saviour.
This one object is common to all, a possession
peculiar to none ; and hence, no one can dis-
regard his fellow-Christian, as inferior to him.
Whereas, had the tie been founded upon riches,
or any other extrinsic circumstance, then, it is
evident, the rich or the noble, and the poor or the
ignoble, could not have met ; and thus the proud
and vain distinctions of society would have been
for ever kept up. But Christianity regards all
men as equal ; and hence, by its motives and
precepts, cultivates the faculties constituting the
human nature; faculties recognising mankind as
brethren, and as objects worthy of love. Not
112
only are the moral sentiments, but the intellec-
tual faculties, of the Christian cultivated. Rea-
son is his ; and the Christian is exhorted to give
to every one who asks, a reason of the hope that
is in him ; and Paul exhorts Titus to use sound
speech (or, as the original means, soiind reason),
that he who is of the contrary part may be
ashamed.
The Christian stores his mind well with the
word of God, which he finds to be the sword of
the Spirit, by the aid of which alone he is able to
withstand his enemies. He grows daily in grace,
and in the knowledge of his Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ ; and the effect of such knowledge
is, that he lives not to himself, but to God's
glory. And should he happen to fall into any
open sin, his brethren are at hand to deliver him,
in the spirit of meekness. In this mutual sup-
port we see the principles of our nature acted
upon ; we behold that the effects intended to be
produced by this communion of spirit are such
as, according to this nature, must be. But this
harmony between the preceptive part of Chris-
tianity and our mental constitution, as established
by Phrenology, will be more fully seen upon a
particular examination of the individual precepts
113
of Christianity ; inasmuch as it will be found,
that the faculties, demonstrated by the above sci-
ence to exist, as primitive faculties, have precepts
given for their proper direction, their existence
being thus indirectly recognised by the Author
of the Christian system. In this system we are
taught, " not to look upon women to lust after
them." This preceptive command teems with
Benevolence ; and, if attended to, the eye of
modesty, and the heart of the feeling, would not
be hurt by the sight of those poor creatures, lost
to all sense of shame, who parade our principal
streets at noon-day. But Christianity has a posi-
tive, as well as negative precept regarding the
exercise of this faculty :
u Love your wives,"
holds a place among its dicta ; and the apostle
Paul commands, " Let the husband render to
the wife due btncvolence, and likewise also the
wife to the husband." 1 Cor. vii. 8. The chastity
of expression, or the natural justice of the com-
mand, it is difficult to say which to admire the
more. And the same apostle gives another pre-
ceptive command, " But if they cannot contain,
let them marry ; for it is better to marry than to
burn :" and this is given on the account, that
" every man hath his proper gift of God, one after
10*
114
this manner, and another after that." 1 Cor. vii.
7, 9. The apostle thus recognises the fact, de-
monstrated by Phrenology, that some men have
the faculty of Amativeness more powerful than
others, and gives advice to them thus endowed,
so suited to their condition, and so minute as re-
garding their happiness, that that mind must be
but very partially enlightened, who cannot see in
all this, the wisdom of a kind God, providing for
the comfort of His creatures.
The faculty of the love of Children, or Philo-
progenitiveness, is directed by Christianity into
proper channels. " And ye fathers, provoke not
your children to wrath ; but bring them up in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord." Ephes.
vi. 4. The discipline which parents are to use
towards their children is abundantly pointed out
in the Proverbs. " Correct thy son, and he shall
give thee rest ;
yea, he shall give delight unto
thy soul." Chap. xxix. 17. " Chasten thy son
while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for
his crying." xix. 18. " He that spareth his rod
hateth his son ; but he that loveth him chasten-
eth him betimes." xiii. 24. And this and other du-
ties towards children are urged upon parents by
the gracious promises, " Train up a child in the
115
way he should go, and when he is old he will not
depart from it; " and " He shall give thee rest
;
yea, he shall give delight to thy soul ;" whereas,
on the want of attention, the following evil arises,
" A child left to himself bringeth his mother to
shame." And we are taught, moreover, " He
that careth not for his own, especially those of his
own house, hath denied the faith, and is worse
than an infidel.
5
'
And those persons, who go
about as busy bodies, tatlers, are pointedly con-
demned, and commanded to stop at home, and
mind the affairs of their oion house.
These faculties and Adhesiveness are, as the
Phrenologist knows, and as the other reader will
perceive, from what has been said, engaged in
concerns principally domestic. They are the
links which tie the hearts of a family together.
To prevent, however, these links being drawn
too tight, and thereby rendering the laceration
which must take place at death excessively vio-
lent, Christianity adds, " He that loveth father
or mother, wife or children, more than me, is not
worthy of me." The Saviour is referred to.
This supreme object keeps all others in their
proper place ; and when it is remembered that
Jesus Christ can never cease to be an object of
116
attachment, since neither life nor death, things
present nor things to come, can separate the
Christian from the love of his Lord ; how reason-
able is it, that the strongest energies of Adhe-
siveness should run out in that quarter ? The
intellectual faculties and Moral Sentiments will
give to their fellow, thus journeying, their ap-
proving smile, their strengthening support. The
one class, seeing the propriety ; the other, feeling
the pleasantness of this direction.
Christianity guides Combativeness into the
proper channel by dictating, " Contend earnestly
for the faith once delivered to the saints
:
"
" Fight the good fight of faith."
It points out the proper course to Destructive-
ness, when saying " Be angry and sin not ;" and
the existence of a natural disposition, leading to
anger, is acknowledged by Jesus Christ, when
he forbids any one to be angry with his brother
" without cause." We see himself angry against
the Scribes and Pharisees for their hypocrisy,
styling them " vipers; " and, under the influence
of this faculty, guided and impelled by a zeal for
God according to knowledge, the Son of man
drove the sellers and buyers, with a thong of cords,
out of the temr le, overturning, at the same time,
117
the tables of the money-changers, and stating, in
the justification of his conduct, that they made
his " Father's house a den of thieves.
5 '
Acquisitiveness is guided by Christianity ;
which, though condemning the making haste to
be rich, and commanding " Lay not up for your-
selves treasures on earth, where moth and rust
do corrupt, and thieves break through and steal,''
does not leave the faculty without a direction,
inasmuch as it requires of its disciples to " Lay
up treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor
rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through and steal." At the same time, Chris-
tianity does not tell its followers to neglect their
worldly concerns ; no, but says, " Be not slothful
in business ; fervent in spirit, serving the Lord."
— "Let him labor, that he may have to give to
him that needeth." Let the scholar compare this
beautiful balancing of directions, with the direc-
tions which philosophers have given to this fac-
ulty. Some, he will know, taught their follow-
ers to despise worldly honours and riches, without
giving to the faculty, demonstrated by Phrenol-
ogy to exist, any other direction; thus showing
their ignorance of its existence : whereas the
Bible, pointing out its channel, and condemning
118
its improper employment, recognises both the
faculty and its liability to misdirection ; another
coincidence between Phrenology and Chris-
tianity.
Secretiveness, another primitive faculty, has
its proper course pointed out, when Christianity
teaches its followers to be " wise as serpents, but
harmless as doves."
Self-esteem is recognised by the dignified
character which the Christian is represented as
possessing. He is a son of God ; an heir of
glory ; he has a crown ; a priesthood ; is the
temple of the living God ; and the apostle ap-
peals to this faculty in endeavouring to convince
the Corinthians of their wickedness, and of
the necessity of avoiding fornication. " Know
ye not that your bodies are the members of
Christ ? Shall I then take the members of
Christ, and make them the members of a harlot?
By no means. What? know ye not that your
body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, who is in
you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your
own ?
5;
1 Cor. vi. 15, 19.
Love of Approbation, another primitive faculty,
is recognised by Christianity. There is an in-
junction, tf Strive that ye may excel ;" and the
119
Corinthian believers were told to " desire earn-
estly the best gifts;" and of still higher direc-
tions of this faculty mention will presently be
made.
Paul, moreover, speaking of the prospect of
being with the Lord Jesus Christ, observes,
" And for this reason, we make it the height of
our ambition, that whether we be present or
absent, we may be acceptable unto Him." 2
Cor. v. 10.
Firmness is recognised when the Christian is
told to " remain steadfast in the faith;" to " hold
fast that which is good."
Thus we see, that every animal propensity,
(for, regarding the few not noticed, applications
from Scripture might be taken,) for the demon-
stration of the existence of which Phrenology has
been so much abused, has, in the Scriptures, a
direction given.
It is the same with our other faculties. Be-
nevolence has the highest directions. The
Christian is taught to do good unto all men ; to
give offence to none. He is taught to love his
neighbour as himself. And his doing good is
not confined to temporal things, but extends to
eternal objects. His desire to do good has its
120
highest direction in the wish of, and using the
means for, the salvation of men.
This preceptive part of the Christian system
cannot be left, without a remark being made, on
the way in which knowledge is communicated in
the word of God. Any one reading the Bible
with attention will perceive, that comparisons
and parables are the most common forms of in-
struction. Now, it is a fact established by Phre-
nology, that the faculty of Comparison is one with
which men are most abundantly endowed ; in-
deed, if any faculty predominates in the mental
constitution, it is this. And in the modes of in-
struction adopted in tli€ Bible we see so striking
a coincidence, the parabolical and the like, being
those which abound, and which are the proper
food of this faculty; a circumstance that cannot
be attributed to chance, but must be ascribed to
this, that the Author of the Christian system is
one intimately acquainted with our nature.
These comparisons, too, are taken from nature,
not from art. They are drawn from objects
known to all : the sun, the moon, the stars, the
beasts, the winds, the lightnings, objects seen
by all. Thus nature is the hand-maiden of
grace, and is made to reflect, on the lovely face
of her sister, her own brilliant light.
121
In general, it may be remarked of the precepts
of Christianity, that they are of the widest extent,
embracing every diversity of character, and per-
sons in every situation ;
— the rich, the poor, the
ignorant, the learned, the noble, the ignoble.
The system being of such general application,
and pretending, as it does, to come from the
Creator of all, it follows as a necessary conse-
quence, that its precepts must be so suited to all,
that none can put an unjust interpretation upon
them. How is this to be done ? is an important
inquiry : what suits one mind is not adapted to
another. Christianity, in all the dignity of being
a revelation from heaven, commands the proud-
est, the noblest, the wisest, the mightiest, to bow
down as little children, and receive, with the
way-faring man, in the spirit of child-like hu-
mility, its instructions. If a system did not
come from God, this would be presumption ; but
so ordering all to be abased, testifies to its divine
origin, and immediately points out a distinction
between it and all the systems of philosophy,
the teachers of which had one set of doctrines
for the rich, and another for the poor ; and by
requiring all to hear as little children, who
believe all that they hear, the difference of deci-
11
122
sion arising from different constitution of mind
is set aside. ,
Having thus considered this mean of enabling
the Christian to resist the trials to which he will
be exposed in passing through the world, the
next will be pointed out.
One of the most powerful means of stirring up
men to run in the career of duty, is the setting
an example. Look at Napoleon at the Bridge of
Lodi ; Alexander at the city of Tyre. Example
appeals to our Imitation, Self-esteem, and to
Love of Approbation, which faculties excite the
desire of doing what has been done. It seems
natural to expect that the God of our nature
would not, in a system coming from him, let this
powerful motive to action be disregarded. No
;
the Christian has a glorious example, leading
him to aim at perfection. He sees in Jesus
Christ his original, and all that he strives is to be
made like Him. He beholds Him as the Cap-
tain of his salvation, made perfect through suffer-
ings. He holds the world as a theatre of war
(carried on, indeed, on his part, with weapons of
peace), on which are unfurled the banner of Kim
he loves, and the flag of the evil one. Taking
his place under the former, he is comforted by
123
the promise, that through Him he will be more
than conqueror ; and beholds his own victory in
that of his leader. Yes ; looking forward by
Hope to a future day, the Christian beholds, in
lively portraiture, the triumphs of his Lord ; he
sees the enemies of his King following as cap-
tives ; experiences the sweetness of the odors
of his Priest's atoning blood ;
* views the tri-
umphal entry of his Captain into the heavenly
Jerusalem ; beholds the gates of Zion open
;
hears the resounding and glorious question,
" Who is the King of Glory ? " and .joins in the
choral reply, with innumerable spirits, " The
Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in
battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates ; even
lift them up, ye everlasting doors ; and the King
of Glory shall come in." Psalm xxiv. 8, 9.
Thus the apostle felt, 2 Cor. ii. 14.
* The meaning to be attached to this important, this
grand, this too often ignorantly quoted phrase, will be
understood by the reader, if he will undertake the delight-
ful duty of investigating the sense in which blood is used
throughout the Scriptures ; to aid him in this, it will be
well to examine the figurative meaning of water and
wine as used in the Scriptures. For the figurative mean-
ing of water, see number viii. of the Christian Physician
and Anthropological Magazine, published by E. Palmer,
18, Paternoster Row.
124
The remaining means recognised in the word
of God, as enabling the Christian to resist temp-
tation, and to overcome the many and powerful
enemies with whom he has to contend, consists
of rewards and punishments.
In a human government it is impossible to give
virtue a positive reward. Vice, it is true, may
be punished ; and punishment* is the only sanc-
tion, a powerful one indeed, possessed by an
earthly government. Individuals may be re-
warded ; but the ribbon and the star await only
a few. For whence are rewards to come but
from a tax upon the community ? and whence
the means to bestow a premium on every one
who abstains from murder, theft, and other mis-
deeds ? But the faculties recognise, as the God
fitted for adoration, a Being in whom Omnipo-
tence is a prominent feature. They acknowl-
edge that in Him there exists a powT
er to reward
* Punishment governs all mankind: punishment alone
preserves them ;
punishment wakes, while their guards
are asleep. The wise consider punishment as the per-
fection of justice. Punishment is an active ruler; he is
true manager of public affairs; he is the dispenser of
laws, and wise men call him the sponsor of all the four
orders for the discharge of their several duties. — On the
Military Class, Institutes of Menu, Vol. iii. p. 243.
125
all. In his very attribute of Omnipotence, they
behold an exhaustless treasury to employ in re-
warding those who do well, and in punishing
them who do ill. In the Christian system God
is represented as dispensing rewards and punish-
ments ; and these are so many motives appealing
to Love of Approbation, Acquisitiveness, Cau-
tiousness, and Hope, faculties existent in our na-
ture. To the first three the glorious prospect
held forth in the Bible appeals with a mighty
energy ; while the dismal futurities, that await
those who disobey the commands of God, appeal
to the last mentioned faculty with a peculiar
force. And to point out the nature of the former
prospects, images the most glorious are employed ;
while, on the other hand, to show the terrors of
the other condition, the most dreadful similitudes
are used. Indeed, to exhibit the happiness of the
good, every thing lovely, beauteous, and grand
in nature and art is collected ; and to show the
misery of the bad, every object the most horrible,
terrific, and unpleasant is presented.
These means, recognised in the Christian sys-
tem, as necessary for the effectual aid of man,
imply an excessive weakness on the part of him
by whom they are needed. Indeed, this peculiar
11*
126
state of human nature, proved by Phrenology, in
demonstrating that man is, of necessity, evil, is
one which Christianity most boldly avers, but
against which all philosophy, except Phrenology,
rises in opposition. Indeed, this humiliation of
human nature philosophers have ever held to be
opposed to the practice of what is good ; and
they, in their wisdom, have thought fit to adopt
another plan ; and have, in their pretended
anxiety for the interests of mankind, talked
loudly about the dignity of human nature. It is
a delightful thing to see that phrenological sci-
ence testifies to the accuracy of Christianity : in
testifying, that while there is a dignity in the
constitution of the human being, as compared
with the constitution of other animals, it, at the
same time, maintains, that those parts of man's
constitution, in which he is common with the
brutes, have gained a lamentable preponderance
over those which, if preponderating, would make
him dignified, by making him to be a man.
Man is a dignified being, but man is undignified,
because he is not man. Indeed, it is a matter
continually pressed home on the Christian's
mind, that he is weak : and on this account he
is told to flee from temptation. He begs of God
127
to u lead him not into temptation ;
" and is
taught, that " as the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself, except it abide in the vine/' no more can
he, except he abide in Christ. Indeed, without
continual faith in Christ, he can do nothing, so
strong is the evil tendency of his nature; and
though the apostle could do all things, as he
himself says, yet it was " through Christ that
strengthened him."
Thus the means, which Christianity proffers,
and such as will enable the Christian to come
off more than a conqueror, have passed in re-
view ; and the coincidences, which have been
pointed out, between them and the faculties on
which they act, existing in the mind, are so nu-
merous, as to lead to the conviction, that both
Christianity, and man's self, are the work of the
same author.
That this conclusion is just, and that the
means are efficacious to the end, will be more
fully established by contrasting these means with
those of philosophy ; and, secondly, by some ex-
amples of their efficacy. The philosopher sub-
dues his meaner passions by the power of reason;
of this notice has been taken. His Self-esteem
is his chief defence against enormities of every
128
kind ; and, though he pretends to despise the
approbation of his fellow-men, it is for this, in a
great measure, that he is outwardly moral. He
adores himself, a more corrupted object of wor-
ship than the stocks and stones before which the
savage bows. These two faculties, combined
with his Moral Sentiments and his Intellect,
have to resist the impetuous torrent of his animal
propensities. A weak barrier indeed !
This method of inducing morality is one which
man has devised ; and which, like all other hu-
man institutions, must, from its very nature, be
confined to a few ; because, by few, the opportu-
nities of the philosopher are possessed. What
must become of the poor, the ignorant, the hard-
working class of society ? How must they sub-
jugate their passions? They have no philosophy,
no languages, no sciences, no opportunities of
studying the fine arts. Some other plan must be
for them. Christianity suits their case; and
produces, in them, a higher morality than that
possessed by any philosopher. It is by the be-
lief of a testimony, which is attended with a love
of God as its consequence. This is the founda-
tion of real morality ; and, when we review the
commencement of a holy life, and the means for
129
its successful prosecution, as exhibited in Chris-
tianity, and consider the source of philosophical
morality together with its effects, we see how the
apostle might well ask, " Hath not God shown
the wisdom of this world to be foolishness ?
Indeed, contrast the means of defence, belonging
to the philosopher, with that of which the Chris-
tian can boast. Weigh the relative powers of
the coat of mail, formed by Self-esteem and Love
of Approbation, in which the philosopher is in-
cased, and of the " breastplate of faith and love,"
and of the " helmet, the hope of salvation."
Estimate the resisting influence of the sayings
of antiquity, with the word of God, " the sword
of the Spirit." Consider whether it is better to
have the armor of philosophy, or " the whole
armor of God," in order to " be able to with-
stand in the evil day ; " whether, " to have the
loins girt about " with philosophy, or " with
truth;" whether to have " on the breastplate of
righteousness," or the targe of pride : whether,
" to have the feet shod with the preparation of
the gospel of peace," or with the Stoical doc-
trines of philosophic speculation ; whether to use
the language of " prayer," or the proud utter-
ance of determined independence. Phrenology
130
says that we are weak, evilly-inclined creatures
;
and, being such, approves of the Christian's ar-
mor.
The philosopher may, perhaps, boast that he
has before him, as an object of imitation, Virtue.
But what is this? She is a plaything to be
looked upon in the days of prosperity ; but, in
the days of adversity, Hope turns away from her
with disgust. The Stoics may deny what they
like ; but their boasts are insults upon human
nature, and contradictions to common expe-
rience. Their conduct belied their doctrines.
Brutus, one of their noblest, cried in the ago-
nies of death, that Virtue had forsaken him.
In the illustration of the efficaciousness of
the means, which Christianity recognises, a few
examples may be given.
One of the most striking circumstances con-
nected with the promulgation of Christianity is,
the meanness of its first preachers. Several of
them were but fishermen ; men of low birth,
having little education ; and, as such, generally
very obsequious to the great. Yet such persons
were boldly to state the truths of Christianity
before kings and rulers. Among the number,
Peter stands preeminent, not only for the con-
131
spicuous place which he holds, but for his for-
wardness. No doubt he was a blunt, warm-
hearted man ; meant to do all that he said, not
aware of the difficulties id the way of putting
his resolutions into execution. Under the in-
fluence of this warm-heartedness, he asserted,
that though all deserted his Master, he would
not. But Jesus knew the nature of the fear of
man, and seeing into futurity, warned him that
he would deny him. Peter followed his Lord,
who, after being betrayed by Judas, was taken
before the Chief Priests. Peter attended: and,
when warming himself by the fire, a person
charged him with being one of Christ's disci-
ples : he denied it. And so influenced was he
by the love of the approbation of his fellow-
men, that he even testified to his ignorance by
an oath. Yet this same Peter, after being
strengthened from above, and learning to put
all his trust upon God, stood before the Jewish
Sanhedrim, and, in spite of their threats, boldly
stated that he was determined to preach the
gospel ; adding, " whether it be right to obey
God or men, judge ye !
" Here we see the
same faculty, Love of Approbation, differently
directed, and the effects are widely diverse.
132
Indeed, I know no change more striking ; when
directed to man, Peter lied for fear of a menial
servant ; when directed to God, all the terrors
of the Jewish Sanhedrim could not move him.
Peter was Peter with his faculties misdirected,
in the first case ; in the second, was Peter with
his faculties in proper direction.
Who has ever equalled Paul ? What suffer-
ings he endured for the sake of Christ : and the
almost miraculous labors that he performed in
testifying to the truth in Christ Jesus ; and the
glory he took to himself in being so honored,
as to be permitted to suffer in defence of the
truths he stated, are acknowledged by him to
have sprung from faith. Indeed, in writing to
the Hebrews, he gives a long list of those who
had, through faith, subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the
mouth of lions, quenched the violence of fire,
escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness
were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned
to flight the armies of the aliens, women received
their dead raised to life again ; and others were
tortured, not accepting deliverance ; that they
might obtain a better resurrection. Heb, xi.
133
Many might be the instances adduced from
those living in later times, but this is not neces-
sary. The best reference is the part mentioned
above. But if any wish others, I would refer
them to Biographia Evangelica, by Myddleton,
and to the History of the Waldenses, by Jones.
In coming to a conclusion, it is trusted, that
the sixth proposition is completely proved ; and
that, so strict and so exact is the coincidence
between Phrenology and Christianity, as to lead
every unbiassed mind to conclude, that a series
of evidences to the Christian system has been
made out, quite satisfactory of the general state-
ment, that the Bible is the word of God.
If some, however, do not think this, they
must have the candor to allow that the views,
introduced throughout these pages, have tended
to show how science can be applied in the elu-
cidation of Scripture ; and to impress on the
mind, that the only person, " who overcometh
the world," is he who believes that Jesus is the
Son of God. 1 John v. 5.
Another important truth which this investiga-
tion has tended to show is, that adoration, unless
guided by the intellect, and given birth to by
the heart, is vain and unacceptable in the sight
12
134
of God. And it will, it is hoped, be seen, that
that excitement of devotional feeling, produced
by a solemn aisle, by grand music, or by the
fervid eloquence of a preacher, is no more true
devotion,* than are the hideous noises with
which the inhabitants of another quarter of the
world welcome the visit of an eclipse. Indeed,
if the reader, on rising from the perusal of this
work, should be determined to cast aside all
confidence in frames and feelings ; to call no
man master on earth; and to read the word of
Truth for himself, the writer will not have la-
bored in vain. No ; but will look forward in
confidential delight, that the person so stirred
up, will, from beholding " as in a glass the
glory of the Lord, be changed into the same
image, from glory to glory, as by the Spirit of
the Lord." 2 Cor. iii. 18.
To the Christian who may peruse these pages,
the author begs to point out how much is de-
pendant upon each one exhibiting the influence
of that belief which he professes. The gospel,
if believed, must, as has been shown, produce
* May not these, however, give important aid to the
sentiments ?
135
the effects stated. If it does not, then it may
with certainty be concluded, that the life is not
by faith. From the blinding influence of es-
tablished religions, it happens that many assume
the name of Christians, who do not believe in
Jesus Christ ; they believe another gospel, or
else do not understand the one to which they
have assented; for, in the parable of the sower,
only those brought forth fruit that understood
the word preached. This may anticipate an
objection, drawn from the deficiencies, and even
flagrant wickedness, of professed Christians, that
the gospel does not produce the effects stated.
The followers of Christ should be living epistles,
known and read by all men.
Theophrastus remarks, " that the whole aim
and credit of philosophy consisted in obtaining
a happy life." This may be the aim of philoso-
phy, but it is the credit of Christianity to induce
and secure happiness. Indeed, the belief of the
gospel, the first step in Christianity, brings man
into reconciliation with God, the Father of
mercies, and the God of all consolation. And
thus secures him joy, both in life and in death.
To conclude : Christians are reminded, that
their great Exemplar desired his contempora-
136
ries, if they would not credit his testimony, to
believe him " for the very works' sake." And
to the person not a Christian, a kind voice
would hint, that as every truth testifies to Chris-
tianity being divine, it becomes him to study
and to attend to this revelation from God.
THE END,
