{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__clymer___the_august_fraternity.pdf","mytitle":"The August Fraternity","mylang":"de"}
PRELUDE
~
the Occult as well as to all Mystics, Occultists and Initi-
ates who believe in the absolute functioning of the Law
of Karma: '
.
Let us suppose, by way of illustration, that about
three—quarters of a century ago a Rosicrucian initiate
’
with due Warrant of lawful authorityfrom the authentic
august Fraternity established the Order of the Rose
Cross in America; that as Grand Master, he taught the
Addressedto all sincere students of Mysticism and V
4
»
Great Work to others, noble and self effacing,who were
‘
'
alwayswillingto work, to suffer, to die if need be, to
to serve mankind; that the Rosicrucian Fraternity so
founded in America has continued, without abatement,
ing it on, passed from Grand Master to Grand Master,
and passed on from thisplane of life; and thata man now
"V
'. Grand Mastership of the august Fraternitywith instruc-
tions to defend his benefactorsand to carry on the Great
.
,
Work as his predecessors had done, according to the
ancient land—marksof the Fraternity.
2 -
MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
profit by their labors, defamed them, and would destroy
their Worthyreputations by falsehoods and false innuen-
dos, in order tl1at he may wrongfully appropriate the
fruits of their unselfish labors to his selfish glory and
pecuniary profit. _
‘
A
And now, let us suppose that the present Grand
Master of the AuthenticRosicrucianFraternityor Order
of theRose Cross, who is obligated and in duty bound to
carry on their noble work and who is deeply indebted
for all that he is, to his predecessors, who have been so
wrongfullyand unjustlydefamed andwilfullyslandered;
yes, suppose thisman heeds theadvice of certain cautious
friends who say: “Never mind! It will all adjustitself
in time,” and does nothingto defend theinnocent against
baseless falsehoods——does nothing to right the wrong,
although he knows in his heart thatunless he protests
with all thatis in him, unless he declares thetruthwhich
he knows about his predecessors now unable to defend
themselves, and exposes the falsehoods circulated about
themand their noble work and accomplishments,thathe
will be remiss in his duty and cannot be and remain
blameless. If he does failin thepeI'fo1‘n1anceof thissim-
ple duty and loving se1‘vice—Wha.t Willhis Karmabe?
The foregoing suppositions, by way of illustration,
are a true statement of facts. I am the present Grand
Master of the authenticRosicrucian Fraternity, in due
and rightful order of succession, founded in America
about 1858 by,Dr. P. B. Randolph. When yet a lad, I
was accepted as a Neophyte in_ that great Spiritual
School known as the Rose Cross then presided over by _
Freeman B. Dowd as Grand Master. Dr. James R. Phelps .
-
-
was chosen as my teacher, personally selected by the In-
ternationallnitiateand Rosicrucian, Count Quinotti. I g
was-instructed in the Philosophyof the Rose Cross and
guided throughHer mysteries until I could stand alone.’
I served under Grand Master Dr. Edward H. Brown and
succeeded him. I know these men and the men and »
’°
women associated with them, who loved and labored so
"
thatany who would, might know the Truthand the Life.
I know that they were unselfish and ready to suffer for A
Truth._—~theynever failed in their duty. I know that '
thatthe calumny and clouds of doubt cast upon their
records by one who never knew them, is without the
slightest justification and have no foundation in truth.
I also know, and fully understand, that this calumny is
sole aim is to belittle those men and to destroy, if possi-
ble, in the public mind and esteem, the authenti'cityof
the Fraternityor Order thattheyfounded and have pre-
;
~" ,
T ‘Again I ask: “What willmy Karma be, if under these
: circumstances, I fail in the defense of those noble souls
thathave now joined the Hierarchyof the White Broth-
erhood?” I SHALL NOT FAIL THEM!
I-I. SPENCER LEWIS
His Spurious AMORG and His Wholesale
Fabrications
Earlyin the Fall,‘~shortly after my return from a
r tour through the Great’West and South on a mission of
investigation and the gatheringof valuable material re-
d
‘
Iated to the interests of the august Fraternity,the Fra-
6 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
fact that the Rosicrucian Order of Europe had previously
authorized the establishment or true Rosicruclanism in
America. in the year 1692 and 1693,’ and there were many
living descendants of those first official Roslcrncians‘ who
objected to theestablishment of Rosicrucianism in America
In connection with any other organization‘ without warrant
or proper rituals."
1
Ignoring everything that either Dr. P. B.‘ Ran-
dolph or Freeman B. Dowd, first and second Supreme, _
Grand Masters of the authenticRosicrucian Fraternity
in America, have written relating to the Rosicrucians,
and consultingonly Sylvester Clark Gould, whom Mr.
Lewis apparently accepts as an authority,we find that
there was but one active Rosicrucian Order in America
prior to and at that date (1880), (excepting only the
Masonic Rose Cross Society workingunder English and
Scottish authorityand beingMasonic, in no way conflict-
ing with the authenticOrder), and thatone and onlyone
was the Order established by Randolph about 1856 and
in the year 1880 it was still activelyfunctioning under
the jurisdiction of Freeman B. Dowd, as Grand Master,
Dr. Randolph having passed through the Portals of the
Greater Mysteries. Certainly these “American Rosicru-
cian students” were aware: (a) that Randolph_had es-
tablished the authenticFraternity as above stated; (b)
that he had the absolute and exclusive authorityfor the
establishment of theFraternityin America;and (c) being
either neophytes or members of the Fraternity,as thou-
sands were -at thatdate, under Grand Master Dowd, they
were not merely “aware” but knew that the Order ex-
isted and was actively “Working”in America.
2
This mis-statementhas been so frequentlyrepeated ‘
by Mr. Lewis thathe may now believeit to be true. As
a matter of fact, no such charter was ever granted to
Americans or American emigrants by either a clandes-
tine or genuine Rosicrucian foundation. A
These good
people who left Holland,—-who travelled to London and
. were received in the Lodge of Phi1a4de1phJ'a,——a purely
sectarian Boehme Mystic organization,—were Pietists
who later established in Pennsylvania a Pietist colony
and never even pretended it to be a Rosicrucian Brother-
hood. This has been made clear in our brochure, The
Masters Among Men. Their own literature frequently
CLANDESTINISM "EXPOSED ‘ e
7
-mentions the Baptits, Anabaptists, Dunkers, the work
of the Mystic Boehrne and others—all Sectarians, but
a
does not mention the Rosierucians.
Even if it were true thatthese sectarians had really
been Rosicrueians, this would not in any possible way
tion unless he could prove, beyond preadventure of a
doubt, that his organization had legitimately descended
from these good Sectarians once established near Phila-
delphia and Ephrata. And, from all thatMr. Lewis has
Written and printed on the subject in order to justify his
', spurious movement, one would be lead to conclude that
-
‘i
he sought to establish such a connection. However, Mr.
Lewis emphaticallytells his followers that the Amorc is
not a descendant of the group thatcame to America in
1694. Our proof:
Turn to page 109, second column of the May, 1927,
issue of The Mystic Triangle,an Official Amorc Publica-
tion, and there, under the “question and answer” de-
partment will be found the following:
Q.—I have ‘read in some literature
recently that the early Rosicruclans, who
.
established a. community school near
Philadelphia in 1694. were the founders
of another 1J1‘esent Rosicrucian Order in
this country. Is this true?
A.—The community or Rosicrucians to
which you refer existed from 1694 until
1801 and then disbanded in accordance .
with an Ancient decree by which all Rosi- There never
crucian branches remain in open, public Wafl such B,
activity one hundred and eight ears and
then retire into absolute silcncey for nn-
decree’
other
onle l13{&i:'edand
eightsgeare. The
common y dlsbnnd in 1 1, and the" ‘__
members kept to themselves the practices :1 Ephfifi-ta.‘
and teachings in their private lives wlth- aev31:1 Gay
out initiating any others. Many ot the Baptists.
buildings are still standing in the district
of that community and have been visited
by our members. One hundred and eight
years after 1801, the -Imperator of our
(¥1z‘deii£ went
t? France and received au- F1-e.nce,E2:vp1:,
t 01‘ Y to s art again the Rosicrucian "'
V
work in Auiericzt. And the result of his Germa-'0-Y""’wh1ch
visit to Europe is the present Rosicrucian '3'; ‘,3’; '5' 'l"_r ‘_i’ ‘:4? ‘f '3‘ 'f
Order known as AMORO; but the A c
of 1 day is a descendan 1e
tint came 1 en 11 1 are is
no 0 icr organization in this country
that is El. descendant of that first group in
America. Any such claim is either mis-
leagiiig, or you inisundex-stood what was
sat .
justify the existence of Mr. Lewis’ clandestine organiza- .
S MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
Carefully note the underlined statement. This
should, once a11d for all, settle this question and at the
same time establish the priority of the RandolphFounda-
tion. Marginal notes are by a Correspondent.
3
The onlylivingdescendants of these earlySectarian
settlers were located i11 Ephrata, Pennsylvaniaand the
surroundingterritory,and in Ephrata the originalcolony
buildingstill stands. It is questionable whether even as
late as 1880 a single one of these people had ever heard
the term “Rosicrucian.” Those good people were Sev-
enthDay"Baptists and so remain to this day, the Mystics
among them having died out longprior to 18805‘
4
In no literature extant can I find any reference to
any objection beingraised by any Rosicrucian, or by any
other person for that matter, to the establishment in
America of the English body referred to by Mr. Lewis.
It was recognized by those most concerned as purely a
Masonic activity and looked upon by the Rosicrucians
proper as being much after the Eighteenth Degree of
Scottish Rite Masonry. Inasmuchas authenticRosicr_u-
cianism certainly has no quarrel withMasonry,it did not
then, any more than it does now, concern itself withany-
thingthatMasonry may do in matters Masonic.
"It appears‘ from some historical records that a man -by
the name of Dr. P. 13. Randolph, who was a student of.
the occult and mystical, came in contact with some Rosi-
crucian literature or essays prior to the year 1856 while
in America.“ It appears that Dr. Randolph visited London
in 1858 and there met a student of mysticism known as
Mr. W. G. Palgravefi who claimed to be a. member of some
esoteric Order‘ in Europe, which was operated under a
charter issued by a ‘Council of Seven’.,‘ Through this In n
he was introduced to Mr. I-Iargrave Jennings, Eliphas L V1.
and several others who eventually formed the High Council
of the original S.R. I. A. in England.“ Dr. Randolph was
initiated into this Masonic Rosicrucian body as an honor-
ary member, continued his tour and returned to America."
It is of the utmost importance that the interested.
reader, student or" investigator, should give the most
- careful consideration to each of the statements made in
the foregoing paragraph. It may not be unfair to state
thatMr. Lewis wrote the above Withthe deliberateinten-
tion of deceiving and blinding his readers to al__l he had '
‘See the brochure, The Masters Among Men.
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED
I
- -
9
previouslywritten and printed on the subject; yet, it is
"nevertheless true that each separate statement in the
paragraph just quoted is absolutely false and that he
knew thatpraeticallyall of them were untrue.
.
1 The paragraphbeginswiththeWords “it appears.”
One naturally concludes from this expression that Mr.
Lewis did not actuallyknow; thathewas writing alto-
getheronsupposition or heresay, and this, no Dean has a
right to do on so vital a topic involving the integrity of‘
a leader as famous as was Dr. Randolph in his day.
Moreover, if, as he flatly claims and we as positively
deny, Mr. Lewis is a Rosier-ucian, thenhe would not need
‘
to speak of appearances-—as an Initiate, as a member of
the Fraternity,_hewould know.
.
2
Mr. Lewis did know, and the proof thathe did, and
thathis statements made in the 1929 publications are
utterly false, can readilybe proven. To settle this par-
ticular question once and for all time, as well as the ques-
tion whether or not Mr. Lewis is a Rosicrucian, we here
reproduce an exact reproduction of the title page of his
own “Official Publication Number Two, A. M. O. R. 0.”
published i11 1915', after he had started to organize his ,
spurious body. The reader can readily see for himself
thatthe authorof thisbooklet is shown to be_ none other
than “H. Spencer Lewis, F. E. 0.” Also, that,evidently
being uncertain, he does not as yet call himself a “Rosi-
crucian,” which he is not and never has been, but a ‘‘12°
allluminati”under a Rosicrucian appelation. If printed’
evidence is indeed evidence, then this much is clear:
10 '
MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
‘GT6
Attrient anti illflgafixal(lflrhrr
finsat Gratin
IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
I
rrs HISTORY,‘PURPOSES
AND SYMBOLISM
By“ H. SPENCER LEWIS, F. R. C.
(|Z° ILLUMINATI. TOULOUSE. FRANCE)
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION
NUMBER TWO
A. M. O. R. C.
t
Copyrighted 1915 and Issued by‘
THE PUBLICATION COMMITTEE,
AMERICAN SUPIQEME COUNCIL
So let Mr. Lewis refute his “It-appears” statement. »
I quote anotlier of his statements, written and publisheti
in 1915, from which it conclusively appears that he had
prior knowledge of Dr. Randolph’s Rosicrucian standing
and activities. 011 page 10 of his said “Official Publica-
tion Number Two” he published the following statement
—~kI1owing'when he wrote it, thati11sofa.1' as it concerned
D1‘. Ra.11doIph’s Rosicrucian standing and authority it
was true, but that the limitations he placed upon the
same were whollyfalse, namely:
"This is why the attempts of Dr. Randolph and one or more
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED '
"
11
other Rosaeerucians of foreign initiation to establish the
Order in this country within the past hundred years have
always failed." _
I insist thatMr. Lewis thenknew this statement in-
timatingthatthe RandolphFoundation had failed,to be
.
false for the reason thatone of the officials of his organi-
zation had previously been in correspondence with” the
then,as now, firmlyestablished Rosierucian organizatioii, .
the originalRandolphEoundation,officiallyknown as the
FratemitasRosae Grucis, i. e., The Rosicrueian Order or
A
Brotherhood. This correspondence is on file in the ar-
chives of the Fmternity.
{ Furtliermore, and of vastly greater importance, in
'_ View of What is printed in his 1929 publication,I call at-
tention to another statement printed in this same book-
let copyrighted by Mr. Lewis in 1915, more thanfourteen
years prior to his “It-appears” statement, wherein Mr.
Lewis admitted thatDr. Randolphwas “One of thefore-
most men of the Order who ever lived in thiscountry and
was at onetime Grand Master of the R. G. Lodge in‘
Fra.uce,—which....wa.s attended. by one of the Na.po1eons.”
See page 10 of the said booklet, “Official Publication
Number Two.”
Grand Master of the R. C. Order in France and its
Colonies. The papers permitted public negotiations to
be made in the United States only after January I, 1915;
'
»
for the year 1915 was the one designated centuries be-
fore as the proper time for the Order to be born in
America. This is why the attempts of Dr. Randolph
.
and one or more other Rosaecrucians of foreign initi.'1-
tion to establish the Order in this, country within the
past hundred years have always failed. The necessary
papers, co-operation and privilege could not be secured
ven regardless of the fact that Dr. Randolph was one
ofthe’foremost men of the Order who ever lived in this
country and was at one time Grand Master of the R. C.
Lodge in France, which was attended by one of the
Napo1eons.* ‘
Please note that Mr. Lewis has admitted that Dr.
Randolph actuallywas an Initiate of a foreign Rosieru-
eian Order, just as he had previously a.dmitted Ran-
dolph to have been G‘r1'a11cl Master of the Frencll Frater-
12 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT .
_
j__jm
nity. Mr. Lewis then proceeds to claim that because of
this foreign initiation, Dr. Randolph and others, Whom
he does not name, failed in esta.h1ishi11g the Order ‘in
.America. -
.
_Aftergiving this serious thought, let the sincere stu-
dent searcliing after R-osicrucian truth, turn to tl1e pur-
ported history of the Order written by Mr. Lewis as
published during the year 1916 iii his magazine, The
American Rosae Crucis, especially noting contents of
pages 24, 25 and 26' of the May, 1916, number. He will
there find a description of the initiation‘Mr. Lewis claims
to have passed through, and all of it within one night,
not as one might expect, in America or an American pos-
session, but in Toulouse, France, that identical foreign
country wherein Mr. Lewis admitted Dr. Randolphhad
been initiated and made Grand Master of theFraternity,
and becauseof which—the said foreign initiation—Dr.
Randolphfailed to establish the Order in America. ,
Consider furtherMr. Lewis’s reasoning:Even though
a Grand Master of the Fraternity,Dr. Randolph could
11ot succeed i11 establishing the Fraternity in America,
but Mr. Lewis, a pretendinginitiate of one night's dura-
tion in that same Fraternity over which he admits Dr.
Randolphhad presided as the Supreme Head, could suc-
ceed. The least in the Fraternitywas able to accomplish;
thatwhich the greatest or highest could not. Is that not
colossal conceit? If this is not the essence of inconsist-
ency, what is? ‘
Is it possible to reconcile such contratlictory state-
ments‘? Is it possible to believe that one who really
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 13
and authentic English Rosicrucians and not, as Mr.
Lewis would have us believe, to the Masonic Rose Cross
body. Dr. Randolph was introduced to the original Ger-
man Fra. R. -. C.-. by General EthanAllen Hitchcock, and
to the French Order by Drs. Fontain and Bergevin, by
means of their letters of introduction which Randolph
carried with him when he left New York for foreign
shoresf‘ '
‘As already stated, W. G.» Palgrave was not an ob-
scure Mystic by any means but one of the Inner Council
of the esoteric English Rosicrucian Fraternity. This
,body, first established in England by Dr. Robert Fludd,
'
‘one of the Council of the original German foundation.
followed the original tenets of the Order and was known
only to its Neophytes and Initiates. '
5
The writeris familiarwithall of the literature pub-
lished by Dr. P. B. Randolph, yet he is not aware that
Dr. Randolph, either in his published writings or his cor-
respondence, ever used the term‘ “Council of Seven.”
While these Councils of Three, Seven and Nine have been
in existence since the establishment of the Fraternity,
the terms were not then used in publications for the pro-
fane (non-Initiates); they have appeared in such litera-
ture only since the establishment of spurious bodies in
order to prove and establish certain points relative to the
authentic organization. Unless we have inadvertently
overlooked such a reference in Randolpl1’s writings, it is
to be concluded that this assertion is, like so many
others, manufactured out of the whole cloth. However,
it is absolutely certain that Dr. Randolph did not ever
write or say that any Rosicrucian Order was “operated
under a charter issued by the Council of Seven” for the
obvious reason that the Council does not issue charters
'
in the authenticorganization. All charters are now and
always have been issued only under the hand and seal of
the Supreme Grand Master.
‘'
It is likewise untrue that any of the men to whom
‘Dr, Randolph was introduced by Mr. Palgrave or that
Randolph himself ever had anytliing directly to do with
‘See Master: Among Men. ‘"l
14 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
the forniation of theHighCouncilof theoriginal S.R.I.A. .
"While in America.‘ he Randolph wrote a number of books
dealing with the subjects of ‘health, marriage, love, and
sex hygiene, and in one of them introduced a story about
the mystic Roslcruciansf intimating that he was planning
to establish some of the Roslcrucian Masonic“ work in
America. on the ‘basis of that which was being carried on
by the S. 11.1. A.”
‘
The expression “whilein Ame1'ica”is no doubt in-
tended to convey the idea to many readers thatD1‘; Ran-
dolph was seldom and but brieflyin America, possibly
that he was not an American. The factis, Dr. Randolph
was born in and lived in America during all but a. few
years of his life and his loyalty as a11 American in heart
and soul was neve1' questioned by anyone. He was
a friend and adviser to many great A.n1ericans—an1ong
them the inunortal Abraham Lincoln.
2
It is true that Dr. Randolphwrote a story on 1nys—~
tic Rosicrucianism. This was l1is book Ravalette and,
were Mr. Lewis even slightly versed in R-osicrucian lore.
and philosophy, he would understand that this was
really the story——veiled, it is true——of Randolph’s ow11
experience of Initiation, as well a.s a history of that
period (1856-59). He did not “intimate” i11 Ra.va.1ett.e
that he was planning sucl1 a. Frateriiity,but gave in its
pages the history of an actual Order then fully function-
ing in America as well as in other countries. The illus-
tration of the form of charter issued by Randolph to
American Lodges is further evidence of said fact.
"
This is absolutely false! Dr, Randolph never
claimed to be a Mason or that he had any connection-
with Masonry whatever. The movement which ‘Ran-
dolph established had nothingto do with Masonry other
than just as many good Masons are churchmen; so, also,
many good Masons are also Rosicrucians. This un-
founded statement gives rise to the question whether
Mr. Lewis is endeavoring to draw attention from him-
self and his own unfortunate Masonic history in New
York and his Masonically clandestine connections as
published in his magazine, The Triangle,September29,
1921, and The American Rosae Grucis, January, 1916. ’
Randolph had nothing whatever in common with.
the
-, ..> 4;-H:-— — .- —
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED" 15 -
Masonic Rose Gross known as the S. R. I. A. His was a
continuation of the original esoteric foundation.
“Because of the nature of his [Randolph's] books, dealing
in unusually plain language with subjects not generally
discussed in American Literature, and certainly having
none of the goodness and high idealism of the S.R.I.A..
{London} teachings, he was tried in court for such publi-
cations.‘ and eventually abandoned his entire work” be-
cause of the condemnation of his writings."-'*
‘Here is falsification in its most ingenious and in-
sidious form, namely, the use of half-truth which, when
the entire truth is unknown to the reader, condemns a
man in the minds of all but the most discriminating
g thinkers. We know that Mr. Lewis had a copy of Ran-
dolph’s Life Story; The Rose Gross Order, wherein the
entire story of his life is given at the time he (Mr.
V
_
Lewis) wrote this distortion of truth and suppression of
facts, therefore,it follows thatthe statements were made '
wittingly and deliberatelywith intent to deceive. It is
true that Dr. Randolph was tried in Court for a part of
the contents of his works on Love, Woman and Marriage.
It is also true (greatlyto his credit) thathe so thorough-
ly believedin the soundnessof his teachingsand his high
purpose, that at tl1e trial he acted as his own attorney
and was honorablyacquitted. The prosecuting attorney,
who prosecuted Randolph at that trial, publicly stated
that he considered Dr. Randolph the greatest Rosicru—
cian who had ever lived and thatRandolph was then the
Supreme Grand Master of the Fraternity. This, Mr.
Lewis well knows and deliberately supp1'esscs—indeed,
he would destroy the character of the man whose work
he would unlawfully and wrongfully appropriate to him-
self only to debase it.
The almost hopeless battle Randolph fought is more
readilyunderstood and appreciated when we consider
thatmore than thirtyyears later one Moses Harmon was
sent to the Federal prison_at Leavenworthfor writing on
sex matters now boldly spread over the pages" of many
popular magazines. Dr. Alice Stockham was fined one
thousand dollars and given a suspended sentence of one
year in prison for the publication of her views on matters
pertaining to sex, whileIda Chaddock committed suicide
in a Long Island prison because of like persecutions by p)._.,_..y.sn
-—
16 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULTV
the infamous Anthony Comstock. D1‘. Randolph de-
fended his writi11gs,won hispcase and was warmly ap-
plauded by those who crowded the courtroom,
_
2 The statement that Dr. Randolph abandoned his
writings or his work, is wholly without a shred of truth.
The publication and sale of his books has continued to
this day and the demand is as great as ever. In. fact,.
many of his teachings, once laughedand sneered at, have
since proven to be scientific and sound in every respect.
"There ha never been a time since 1865 when these books
have not been on sale or could be bought. I know. I,per-
sonally,have bought and sold them since’ 1894, and only
recently I have republished and sold three of them, viz:
Seership, Eulis and Soul, The Soul World. As to the
statement thatDr. Randolph “eventuallyabandoned his
entire work,” let thereproductionoftheform of Oharter
issued by Randolphto his Lodges speak for itself and let
the reader note that the-date of this copy is of the year
(1874), one year before Randolph passed to the Beyond,
proving that he was active up to the very last years of
his life. *
V
.
3
Rando1ph’s writings and books have never been
condemned by any representative tribunal. Some of his
statements were questioned in the late sixties, but since
then there has been no question regarding them, except
possibly objections made by individualreaders, which is
the case with reference to practicallyall classes of pub-
lications.
“Randolph eventually signed himself in some letters and
papers as the ‘Supreme Grand Master of Eulis for the
wor1d’** and 8. few of his friends tried to explain after his
unfortunate transition through suicide’ that he believed
himself to he a Grand Master of the ‘Triple Order’. This
'
term is not an official part of Rosicrucian Terminology,
and there are no documents or papers to be found in‘
Europe indicating that he was ever authorizedto establish
anything of a Rosicrucian nature in America’ or elsewhere
and none of the historical records of the Order mention
his name or 11is branches as a Part of Rosicrucian history.”
1
Can Mr. Lewis produce “the letters and papers”
he here mentions? .Again, Mr. Lewis has confused the
issue. Dr. Randolph never claimed that the term Eulis
‘To forever set at rest the question as to just how he signed himself, the reader
should refer to the form of charter herein reproduced. '
CLANDESTINISM Exros-no -
17
was known, as such, to or used by the original Rosicru-
cian Foundation. On the contrary,he clearlystated thatit
was a11 Order instituted by himself, While ‘Grand Master.
Its existence was first made known at Memphis, Tenn.
It is supplemental to but in no wise inconsistent withthe
originalRosicrucian work. Primarilyit was founded for
those Neophytes of The Rose Cross who had attained to
a certain development and progressed beyondcertain'de-
grees in the Rose Cross inner or esoteric work. Since
only those who had passed beyond the original second
degree work were and are eligible to membershipin the
Degree or Order of Eulis, the original second degree
-work (which has always been followed in its pristine
purity) graduallybecame known in the Randolph Foun-
dation as the Degree or Order of Elllis. ‘Each degree is
an Order in itself. Inasmuch as Dr. Randolph, then
Grand Master of the Fraternity, was the founder of
Eulis, it was entirely proper that he should proclaim
himself as the Grand Master of Eulis and sign official
communications and documents as Grand Master of the-
“TripleOrder” as shown on the copy of Charter repro-
duced in this booklet.
We question seriously whether any of Dr. Ran-
dolph’s friendsever oflered such an explanation. If they
did, then they were merely friends and neither Initiates
nor members of the Fraternity. May we here as}: Mr.
Lewis to cite book, chapter and page for his authorityin
making this statement? It is, of course, clearly under-
stood by every serious student of the Occult that no one
except a member of the Fraternity could possibly “ex-
plain,” with any degree of correctness, to the world
at large as regards Randolph, his work, afiil-iation or
“autliority. Randolph "was Supreme Grand Master or
Hierarchof the TripleOrder and so remained to thetime
of his death,
“Relative to Randolph’s transition, it is true that
his death was the result of a pistol shot and that surface
indications pointed to suicide—-—tl1at was the coronor’s
I
Verdict. But the actual facts, known to a very few and
only to those of the Inner Council are, namely: that a
me1_nber, very near and dear to Randolph, shortly before
18 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
passing on, confessed to the Master of one of the Term-
ples, that it was he, due to jealousy and temporary in-
sanity,who had made and executed the plans to give
Ra.I1d0lpl1’s death the appearance of suicide and thathe,
(the said member),had sent Randolph on his far jour-
ney. We know of this confession and we have every rea-
son to believeit to be true. This quoted statement made
‘by Mr. Lewis has also been made by others but always
for sinister and ignoble personal reasons. To use such a
a weapon against the ‘record of a great man, (or any
man for thatreason) who has passed on may, bomerang-
like, reveal the unworthy character‘ and equally un-
worthy purposes of those who stoop so low as_ to use
such weapons.
'
Relative to records in Europe or elsewhere, we refer
tl1e reader to what has been written a11d printed by Mr.
Lewis himself as to who and what Randolphwas. Mo1'e~
over, we recall to mind the oft—repeated st'ate1:uent made
by Mr. Lewis thatRandolph did not use the terms Rosi-
crucian (Rosicrucia), Order or Brotherhood, and that he
(Randolph) established no Lodges, as to this, we refer
the reader to the form of the C'ha1‘ter issued by Randolph
to his Lodges, herein reproduced.
“We question seriously whether Mr. Lewis is an
authority o11 Rosicrucian terminology. Does he really
know the language? Is Amorc of authentic Rosicru—
cian terminology‘? If so, then i11 what records or 1na11u—
scripts, or authentictext book is it to be found‘? Was it
ever used before Mr. Lewis invented it with the idea of
protecting himself against the charge of clalidestiiiisnill
Is the term “Ancient and Mystical” Order Rosae Orusis
materially different from the term “Order of the Rose
Cross” used by Randolph except the prefix "Ancient
and Mystical?” Was it ever used in that special form
before Mr. Lewis made use of it? Was it used i11 that
form in the Fame. or the MysticalMa.rria.ge? If so, then
in what edition and o11 what page? Let those who desire
to know, consult these two original Rosicrucian docu-
ments? There is but one original name and that is:
Fraternitas Rosae Grucis (without any “Ancient and
Mystical”)and this is merely the Latinizedform of Fra-
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 19
ternity of the Rose Cross or Rosicrucians. This name is
used by us and was so used long before Mr. Lewis came
into the spotlight with his fabrication;it is used, now as
always, interchangeably withthe terms The Rosicrucian
Fraternity. The Rosicrucian Brotherhood, The -Rosicru—
cian Order, Order of the Rose Cross and Brotherhood of
the Rose Cross, a11d, what is of greater importance, both
legallyand fraternally,is the fact that tl1e earliest Char-
ters as well as that of 1874 clearly states that it (the
Fraternity) is both a Brotherhood and an Order and as
-such, these terms were then preempted by usage which
_
has continued ever since and Mr. Lewis uses them with-
out rights or authorityof a11y kind. Let the reader re-
fer to the form of Charter as issued by Dr. Rando1ph—-
the same Charter under which we continue to work.
These names have beenregistered and can be used right-
fully only by the Randolphfoundation.
If the statements made by Mr. Lewis in 1929 were
-
true, even so far as he himself is concerned, then he was
guilty of a gross falsehood when he, i11 his second “offi-
cial” booklet published in 1915 made the statements he
did. Have the records from which he then obtained his
information relative to Dr, Randolph and his authority,
since been changed or destroyed? "Will Mr. Lewis ex--
plaini Did he guess then and find differently now’?
What manner of a man is he, if thisbe true“! May he not
be"just as mistaken and inaccurate with reference to all
matters and things with which he had dealt and about-
which he has written“! Since he is so careless with the
‘truth, how much of all he has written can be depended
.upon as trust\vort11y? May this not be equally true as
'
-
regards his one night initiation i11 France, or relative to
his authority,first from France, then Egypt, later Ger-
many and final]y-—self-constituted“J
“ To further emphasize what we have already said,
we again question and ask: In what “official” or other
genuine Rosicrucian publication is the Amorc or the
Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucia mentioned”?
Is it mentioned in any publicationprior to 1915? "Let it
he remembered that 1915 was fifty-five years after the
establishment in America of the Rosierucian foundation
20 L
MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT _
by Randolph and forty—one years after the last Charter
issued by Randolph in which the terms “Brotherl1ood”
.and “Order,” so boldly used by Mr. Lewis in his clan-
destine o1'ga.11izati011, were i11tercl1angeably used in 1'c-
'
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED ‘
21
that Mr. Lewis has admitted Randolph’s Grand Master-
ship as well as thathe (Randolph) established Lodges on
the Pacific Coast and in several eastern cities. If Mr.
Lewis admits that much, what are all the facts and the
whole truth?
3
When and where did Mr. Lewis have the privilege
to examine the records of the Fraternity which he has
repeatedly said never existed”? Can a man who does not
belong to a certain organization and who is totally igno-
rant of its essential secrets be privileged to examine the
records of that organization for authentic information
when such records are open only to the members of high-
- est degree who belong to one of the Councils? There
never has been an organized institution wherein disen-
tion did not occur occasionally. In some future time an
institution may exist wherein such dissentions will not
occur, but so long as men’s minds are as diverse in their
viewpoints as theyhave been and are at present, there is
certain to be contention or “differences of opinion” and
this is rather a healthy condition than otherwise and
shows growthwhere otherwise we would find stagnation.
By reason of the fact thatMr. Lewis claims these‘Lodges
“constantly disbanded” he further admits that the Lod-
ges did exist, and that is an important admission. As a
matter of fact and of record, no Lodges actually dis-
banded; in two instances the Charters (notably that of
Rochester, N. Y.) were rescinded and withdrawn for a
time just as it occasionallyhappens in Masonry, due to ‘
infractionsof the Law. This was during the life of Ban-
dolph and following closely after the civil war when
men’s minds were very bitter. No Charters were for-
feited during Dowd’s term of office.
‘
Mr. Lewis knows that thisis a deliberatefalsehood.
The original Ritual used by Randolph is now in the
hands of the writer hereof. This ritual was worked in
complete detail during the June, 1910, Temple Dedica-
tion Convocation. We know thatMr. Lewis is aware of
this fact, because one of the members present at that
Convocationand whose profile appears in the photograph
taken of that class, later joined with Mr. Lewis and in
formed him of what took place. We have her own con-
22 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
fession. Furthermore,Mr. Lewis later so far forgot hin1-
self as to brazenlyboast about this member and what he
did to cause her to break her most solemn vow. We
speak only of this special Convocation of the Fraternity
(again referred to in dealing with the subject of Tem-
ples) because of the traitorous act of the individual in
question and the iiiformation passed on by her to Mr. 7
Lewis.
"
He1'e is another statement just as false as the pre-
ceding one. During the e11tire time that Dr. Randolph
and FreemanB. Dowd were Grand Masters of the Frater-
nity no attempt was made by any o11e to organize spur-
ious or clandestinebodies such as was organized by‘and
is now operated by Mr. Lewis; It is therefore not only
untrue but impossible that any members should have
left the Wo1'k when Randolph and Dowd were the Grand
Masters and that they should have at that time joined
any other organization in America. There was no other
Rosicrucian Organization. Let Mr. Lewis produce any
literature describing or mentioning such a Rosicruoian
activity between 1850 and 1909 and we shall freely con-
fess that we are in error.*‘
“Mr. Dowd was succeeded by a Dr. Edward H. Brown. who
likewise was unable to secure any of the Rosicrucian
teachings‘ or maintain Rando1ph’s scheme against the com-
mon criticisms‘ and the bad reputation“ which his writings
had brought upon their activities." -
‘Mr. Lewis has admitted in print, as pointed out
previously, that Dr. P. B. Randolph was at one time
Grand Master of the Rose Gross and was one of the
greatest Rosicrucians that ever lived. Mr. Dowd was
trained by Randolph. Is it physicallyor spirituallypos-
sible for Dr. Randolph to have bee11 one of the world’s
greatest Rosicrucians without having received Rosicru-
cian teachings and training? All who speak with knowl-
edge and understanding admit that Randolph Was sin-
cere: could it thenbepossible thatRandolphshould train
Mr. Dowd and fail to pass on to him the teachingsWhich
had made Randolph“One of the greatest Rosicrncians‘i”
Again, in turn Dr. Brown was a student under Randolph,
‘This does not have reference to the English Masonic S. R. I. A.
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 23
Phelps and Dowd: is it probable that Dowd and these
V
other men should have trained Dr. Brown and finally
selected him as Grand Master without passing on to him
these teachings which had been given Randolph? Were
all thesemen rogues and charlatansl Mr. Lewis has the
rather strange proclivity of claiming that men and
women of well-known renown in the affairs of men, but
who have passed on to their final accountingand there-
fore oannot enter a denial, were members of his clandes-
tine organization, while other men, equally famed, who
,
belonged to the Randolph Foundation and who are no
longer here to defend themselves, are classed as rogues
01‘ \\’t0I'SB.
tWe challenge Mr. Lewis to produce in its original
form any such “common criticism.” It is true, as pre-
viouslystated, thatDr. Randolphwas charged withwrit-
. ing, publishing and circulating what was at thatperiod
. regarded by some as “
obscene literature” but--—he fought
the accusation and was honorably vindicated and the
trial, rather than destroying him, made him internation-
ally famous and established his reputation as a writer
who had only the highest and best interests of mankind
at heart. ‘
3 Since Mr. Lewis fails to "mention instances or give
quotations from any source or publications mentioning
“bad reputation,” we challenge him to produce the or-
iginal prints. If he cannot do this,and we know thathe
cannot, he must stand convicted of defamation and false-
hoods, by his own unproven charges, and that With a
view of justifying the usurption of the office of the men
whose title he assumes without any right whatsoever.
“In a statement signed by Mrs. Randolph and which
appeared in a fraternal publication as a biographical
sketch of the life of Dr. Randolph in 1917, it is said that
Dr. Randolph was born in New .York City on October 8th,
1825, and that his transition occurred in Toledo, Ohio, on
July 29th, 1876; and she further states that although he
organized some branches as late as 1874,‘ they ‘have long
since become extinct'.”
W'hether Mrs, Randolph wrote such Biographical
sketch we do not know, if she did, it is of little impor-
'See date on the form of charter herein reproduced.
24 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
tance. It is important and interesting to note that Mr.
Lewis quotes, as authorative,a statement attributed to
Dr. Randolph’s surviving widow that flatly‘contradicts,
once again, his frequently repeated assertion that the
Randolphfoundation never had Lodges, thus inadver-
tently again confessing thathe did know by readingthis
sketch that such Lodges had been established even as‘ V
late as 1874. He fails to mention that Freeman B. Dowd
had been named by Randolph as his immediate successor
prior to his death and that all Lodges and branches had
been placed under his control. It is possible that Mrs.
Randolph made the statement attributed to her, butvit
has no real significance, unless Mrs. Randolph was a
member and had continued active as a member of such
Lodges, otherwise it would have been as utterly impos-
sible for her to be informed as to whether these branches
had been changed, concealed or discontinued as for a _
member of a Masonic Lodge to know what is going on in
thatLodge after he has permitted his membership to
lapse. As stated, it is important to note thatMr. Lewis,
by one means or another had beeninformed of the exis-
tence of such Lodges and thus refutes his own claim, as
set forth in many and variously worded statements, to
the effect that Randolph never had Lodges. It is also_’
_
equally clear thathe had but one object in view,namely:
To mislead and throw ofl their guard those who would
be certain to question him closely relative to the anthem .
ticity of the Randolph foundation and the clandestine
and pseudo nature of his own organization.
The purpose and intent of the authenticRose‘ Cross.
has never been the establishment of Lodges, as that term
is commonly understood. The establishment of Lodges
and Temples is secondary and incidental to its. main'ob-
jeet, purpose and essential nature. Primarily,as _we
have pointed out on other occasions, the Fraternity is,
in its truest sense, a Brotherhood—an esoteric. school of
Mystic and Occult teachings. When Lodges and Tem-
ples have been established by the Fraternity,theyhave
been composed of Neophytes who have advanced to cer-
tain stages of the inner Work and reached certain degrees
of development. In order thatthematter may not be con-
‘
‘
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED -
25
‘fusing,let us point out thatthismethod is Wholly unlike
that of Mr.- Lewis’ clandestine, so-called Rosicrucian,
"
‘organization,which establishes and charters Lodges com-
.
posed of any who are willing to join, without regard to
theirfitness, training or development, thatis, Lodges for
the profane, Therefore, it may be stated, to be exact,
tl1at the authentic Fraternity establishes‘ no Lodges,
within.the commonly accepted meaning of the term. In »
the true Rosicrucian sense or meaning, its Neophytes
each’ become Spiritual Temples (scripturally),through
the inner school training, and these form themselves in-'
to Lodges and are then chartei-ed—in such manner only
are'real Rosicrucian Temples or Lodges established-—it
is in this sense that their true meaning is to be under-
stood.
“According to Sedir, the well-known Rcsicrucian historian,
the work of Randolph was simply a. society of ‘edit1ons’—-
referring to the significant point that his work was mostly
that of publishing various editions of books claiming to be
Roslcruclan.”
This paragraph is of interest only in that it is an-
other distortion of fact, made to suit Mr. Lewis’s pur-
pose and perverted methods. In the first place, 1Sedir
never was, or even claimed to be, a Rosicrucian or a
memberof the Fraternityand thereforehe could not and
did not possess true and accurate information of what
had taken placeor What might be taking placewithinthe
Lodges or Temples. Sedir Was an historian: as such he
based his statements and his conclusions on what he had
read or been conveyed to hi1n;——pure1y heresay at best.
Is it a logical conclusionthatbecausea man Writes books
on medicinehe has never been a medical student or a
graduate and thathis “Work”is not thatof a physician?
Or, becausethere are text books on every phase of medi-
cine there can be no medical colleges‘? Or that,if a man
Writes one book on the Rose Cross he must be a R0sic1'i1-
cian, but if he writes many books on the subject his
“work is simply a society of editions” and that he was
never a member of the Fraternity‘! Beca.use Robert
Fludd was a most voluminous writer, ergo, he could not
have been a Rosicrucian? Sedir saw only the published
,
-works of Randolph and knew nothing of his life as an
26 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
::m
Initiate, therefore, whatever he said of Randolph must
be classified as “snap judgment” withoutbeingbased on
facts or knowledge.
“The Rosicruclan Order has never been exclusively‘ or
even primarily a book publishing business, a.nd‘a. careful
examination of the historical writings connected with the
Rosicrucian Order shows that none of the books now
famous as Rosicrucian manuscripts or official publications
ever contained a complete outline of the secret teachings ‘
or rites of the Rosicruciansfi‘ and what is more important,
never claimed to contain such things.”
1
A rather drastic change of attitude from that‘con-
'tained, for instance, in Mr. Lewis’s early publicationsof,
let us say, 1916, in which he very emphatically states
that no books will be published by his concern. Now he
merely claims that the Rosicrucian Order is not “exclu-
sively or even primarily a book publishing business.”
Why the Voltface‘! This will be considered later.
We would go further than Mr. Lewis dare go and
declare thatwith the possible exception of the Fama and
Mystical Marriagethe authenticFraternitydoes not pub-
lish any books. What tl1e individual member of the
‘
Order may do, so long as he does 110t expose the Secret
Wo1‘k a11d so long as his actionis not in any Way inimical
to the Fraternity, is the concern of no one. Dr. Ran-
_
dolph wrote and published books but he did so on his
personal responsibilityand was ready to defend himself
and his work at all times. As a writer and publisher, I
have written and published books, but it has been an
individual activity engaged in on my own personal re-
sponsibilityand I have never pretended that the Writing
of books is either illegitimate or undesirable. On the;
contrary, I have felt and do now feel, that good books,
based on facts,are of advantage to students.
“Neither Dr. Randolph, Mr. Dowd, myself or any-
one else connected with the authentic Fraternity in
America have ever made the claim that the books we
wrote contained either in part or as a whole, the secret
teachings or rites of the Fraternity. All that We ever
claimed is that we were dealing with the philosophy
taught by the Rosicrucians, i. e., the fundamental prin-
ciples upon which the Fraternity is founded. Fludd,
Jennings and others did the same a11d theyhave 11ot been
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED '
27
accused of unethicalpracticesby anyone who had knowl-
edge of the Rose Gross and its mission.
The Rosicrucians, in common with all other esoteric
associations, have always had, and still have, a doctrine .
and a philosophywhich is 11ot secret and upon which the
structure of the Fraternityis built. This philosophyand
sy’stem of life and action is for the people. It is through
such a philosophy that seekers after the truth become
interested. This philosophyis published to—day by its
interpreters just a.s Andrea, the founder of. the Order did,
wl1en he published his Fame. Fraternitatis and his Mys-
t_:,ica.'lMarriageand no one has ever accused him of reveal-
ing the secrets and mysteries of the Order, or that his
was exclusively a bool(—puhlisl1ingconcern. Lord Bacon
was a far more voluminous writer than Randolph and
yet Mr. Lewis advances the untenable claim thathe was
the founder of the Fraternity. Wliythe difference? Is
it a sin and a disgrace and an admission of ignorance for
one man to write hooks and a glory, honor and indication
of wisdom for another man to do likewise‘!
"We have, for instance, in America, a -book called ‘The
Rosicrucians and Their Teacliingshi This book was writ-
ten by a New Thought leader,’. who has written ma-HY
other books on various subjects and who is not a member
of the Rosicrucian Order.“ The -book contains none of the
Rosicrucian teachings.”
Does Mr. Lewis withhold the name of the authorof
-
_The Rosicrucians and Their Teachings,lest some of those
he has so grossly misled might seek .information for
themselves therein and possibly be brought in contact
with the authenticFraternity‘?
1
The book to which Mr. Lewis refers, and of which
I am the author,was first issued under the title, The Fra-
ternity of the Rosicrucians, and was so copyrighted,
190(‘.* In 1904, at the suggestion of Dr. James R. Phelps,
the MS. was placed into the hands of Dr. Edward H.
Brown for criticism. Tn 1905, the MS. was returned to
me with Dr. Brown’s suggestions. It was rewritten a.nd
published in 1906 with the full approval of Freeman B.
Dowd, Dr. James R. Phelps, Dr. Edward H. Brown and
the International Council. The early edition contained
‘See copyright certificate in The Masters Among Men.
23 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
.
I'I"“*—-.,
verbatim, the only absolutely simon—pure Rosicrucian
books" ever published, that is, the Fama Fraternitatis
and Mystical or Chemical Marriage by Andrea, upon
which, all know who are truly informed, the Rosicrucian
Fraternitywas founded. All who read these books with
a discerning mind for Truth must conclude that the
Amorc orgallization possesses nothing genuinely Rosi-
crucian. Moreover, the reprint in The Rosicrucians and
Their Teachingsof the various Manifestoes issued by the
Randolphfoundationfrom time to time prior to the pub-
lication of the book constitutes proof that this founda-
tion has continued active despite all of Mr. Lewis’s
labored and unsuccessful endeavors to show to the con-
trary.
2
This statement is absolutely groundless, a figment
of the imaginatioll,pure and simple. Anyone who cares
to take the trouble to inform himself can readilydiscover
that I have never been associated with New Thought in
a11y capacity; I have never attended a New Thought
Convention and I have never even subscribed for a New
Thought magazine. However, for the sake of argument,
let us suppose thatI had been a New Thought leader: is
it impossible for a New Thoughtist or practitionerto be
a Rosicrucian? If it is, why then does Mr. Lewis hold
forth in his publications that Ella Wheeler Wilcox‘and
Elbert Hubbard were members of his organization'?
Were these New Thoughters differentlyconstituted from
others who have accepted the philosophytaught by Ne xv
Thought? And is not his statement above a deliberate,
thoughindirect, slur on all who are interested in or con-
nected with New Thought?
“Mr. Lewis! {How do you know that I am not_ a
member of the Rosicrucian Fraternity“? ‘Who has de-
putized you to be the spokesman for the authenticFra-
ternity? Have you in your possession the records of the
authenticFraternitythat existed prior to and since your
unwarranted assumption of authority? I here and now, '
openly and justly challenge you to show before any un-
biased committee or competent tribunal: (a) that I am
not a member of the Rosicrucian 1T'raternity; (b) that
you know and can prove that I was not finallyInitiated
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 29'
in Boston; ((2) that you know and can prove that the
SupremeHead of theInternationalCouncilof the antl1en—
tic Fraternity did not confer authorityupon me. I de-
mand and have a just right to demand proofs and facts
that your published assertions are true, and not un-
founded, misleading and unauthoritativestatements.
“Mr. Randolph’s work was later taken up again by Dr.
R. S. Clymer‘ who claimed to be the ‘successor’ to Ran‘-
dolplrl and to have inherited and acquired the Rosicruclan
‘authority’ which Randolph had.“ Clymer followed in the
same plans adopted by Randolph and conducted an organi-
zation consisting wholly of books,‘ a number of which deal
with love, marriage, and ‘sex regeneration’, the latter being
in such language as to be condemned in any Roslcrucian
,: assembly,‘ if not in any general assembly of ladies and
'
gentlemen.“ He proceeded to carry on his work first under
the name of a publishing company,’ then under various
names,“ avoiding the use of the complete name or correct
name of the Rosicrucian Order," and devising entirely new
and unique symbols for his Rosicrucian literature,“ with-
out infringing npon the correct symbols in any way. Dr.
Glymer continues to operate his sale of books and presen-
tation of personal, ‘Rosicruclan’ teachings under difierent
names“ from his home in Pennsylvania, without having
established any typical Rosicrucian temples anywhere in
America,“ and without any connections with the regular
Rosicrucian Order and Lodges in Europe.’”9
The foregoing assertions, made as if with knowledge
but in defiance of all facts, forces me to declare the truth
and this truth gives the positive lie to the entire para-
graph quoted above. '
1 The paragraph begins with the mere implication
of a partial truth. It is true that the writer for the
past thirtyyears has carried on the ‘Work established in
America by Dr. Randolph. Mr. Lewis’s words imply
however, that this Work was merely taken up by me——
more or less casually and then irregularly carried on.
Let it be known as here allirmecl: thatthe Wo1'k as done
by me was begun and.has been carried forward with con-
tinuity, in orderly procedure and in strict accordance
with ancient Rosicrucian usage.
Freernaii B. Dowd was selected by Dr. -Randolpll as
his successor before eitherMr. Lewis or I were born. In
the early ’90’s I enrolled under Mr_'Dowd. As before
stated, Dr. James R. Phelps, of Boston, was selected as
my guide and instrnctor.*“ I continued under Dr. Phelp’s
‘The proofs are in the archive_: of the Fraternity and at immediate command.
a
.30 MUNCI-IAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
direction and i11st1'uction until called to Boston in 1902,
at which time I first met Dr. Brown, who was later to be-
come Grand Master of the Fraternity. It was at this
time that I received my final degree and was given my
“freedom” or “wages.” It was then I commenced my
labors and have continued active ever since. The Wo1'k
l1as been carried on through the proper succession of
Grand Masters as has been the usage since Andrea
founded the Fraternity.
2 The writer is the “successor” to Dr. Randolphonly
i11 such ma11ner as one Grand Master follows in the foot-
steps of anotherand as handed down to him, by selection,
in orderly succession, with such authorityand VVork as
has been carried on by each Grand Master since the be-
ginning of the Fraternity. '
3 I have neither “inherited” nor ,“acquired” the
“Autliority” which had been conferred upon Dr. "Ran-
dolph. I earned. it by right of attainment. This author~
ity was conferred upon me by right of succession, just as,
and by the same method Dr. Randolph and prior Grand
Masters received it, who were the rightful successors of
.the original Grand Master.
“
This accusation has been made against us by Mr. _
Lewis from the time when he organized his spurious
Rosicrucian Order and now the element of comedy en-
ters: I11 the April,1916, number of The American Rosae
Grucis, page 13, paragraph 8, Mr. Lewis says:
“Dr. Olyrner operates the Philosophical Publishing Com-
pany of Allentown, Pa., and sells reprints of some so-called
‘Rosicruoian books’ written by one Dr. P. B. Randolph,
who never had either the right or privilege of writing 161'
publication any Rosicrucian secrets."
From thisit is clear thatMr. Lewis’s present accusa-
tions are no more thanrepetition of former misrepresen-
tatio11s. Even the casually interested reader, “the man
in the street,” can prove for himself that I did not pub-
lish or re-publish a single one of Ra.ndoiph’sbooks except
his History (1918——a1mcst three yea1's after the above
was written by Mr. Lewis), until more than ten years
later, i. e., 1926. '
After devoting a number of columns to part-truths
CLANDESTINISM EXPO.'iiED 31
and whole falsehoods, all more or less proclaiming that
'
I am merelya publisher of books and therefore cannot be
either a Rosicrucian or an authorityon the subject, Mr.
Lewis proceeds on page 14 of the same number:
“Flrst—the true Order—the original and perfect Rosa.ecru-
cian Order is known by only one name—'The Ancient and
Mystical Order Rosae Crucis’. Second1y—its world-wide,
established symbol is the triangle with point downward
and with the cross within the triangle. Third1y—it sells
no books or degrees, by mail or otherwise, purporting to
contain secrets or initiat1_ons.” '
‘
And so the one _
and only name is: ‘fAncient and
Mystical Order Rosae Orucis?” Note that it is not the
Rpsicrucian Brotherhood as now so widely advertised
and _claimed by Mr. Lewis, but simply and only the
Order of Rosae Crucis. Why the change? When did he
legally change it‘? Wliy does he now, despite the above
positive statement, advertise his clandestine organization
as the Original Rosicrneian Brotherhood instead of, the
“only one na1ne”~—'I‘11e-Ancient and Mystical Order
_
Rosae Crucis?
Please note the equally positive statement “it sells
no books” and then recall all thatMr. Lewis has Written
from time to time regarding those who write, publish,
or write and publish books on the subject; finally,refer
to any of his late publications such as The Rosicrucie-n
Digest a11d turn to the last cover page to find there
displayed in colors what is described as a Rosicrucian
Libraryof some ten volumes, some written by Mr. Lewis, V
‘
some purporting to be written by him, and all published
and sold by his Amoro concern. Also bear in mind
thatthe book Witli which we are dealing and from which
we quote is written by this same Mr. Lewis and is sold
and published by Amorc, his clandestine Rosicrucian
organizatioli. It will likewise be news to the many who
have gone to California and there received and paid
$25.00 for a degree, that the Amorc sells no degrees, by
mail or otherwise, “purporting to contain secrets of in-
itiations.” What, then, does his initiation at $25.00 per
degree in California and written lessons by mail at $2.00
per month purport to convey to the candidate? It would
appear to the casual reader that Mr. Lewis dug a grave
for us and then blindlystumbled into it himself.
32 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
5
Mr, Lewis, I challenge you to produce specific in-
stances of condemnatioilof these books by any Rosic1iu-
cian or other assembly—outsideof Amorc—or stand con-
victed of inexcusable invention—inexcusab1e, because
you know or should know that physicians of all schools,
as well as countless fathersand mothers, use these books
as texts and we have yet to receive a word of criticism
from a11y one relative to the contents of these books. We
contend that the statements made by Mr. Lewis are
manufactured out of the whole cloth and defy him to
prove to the contrary.
“
What has been said above“ applies here. We make
no exceptions, save as to the melnbershipof his spurious
orgaliization. You, Mr. Lewis, have here made accusa-
tions which no innocent self-respecting person can allow
'
to pass unchallenged, since silence might be considered
a tacit admission of the truth of your allegations.
'
My publishing business has been carried on under
the name of a purely business co11cern. This is in str.ict
accordance with the practices of the Fraternity since its
foundation. A study of the literature of the time in
which Andrea was active and much later will show" that
all letters addressed directly to the Fraternity were re-“
turned as undeliverable. All inquiries, beginning with
the foundation of the ll'raternity i11 1614 up to the pres-
ent century, had to be addressed indirectly. They were
then placed in the hands of the proper individual who
took up the problem with the applicant or aspirant afte1'
which letters might be addressed so as to reach the Fra-
ternity n1o1'e directly. Until it became necessary for e
to declare the truth, in order to refute Mr. Lewis’s Wigh-
ly published! fabrications and false claims, I adhered
faithfullyto the said ancient and strict Rosicrucian prac-
tice.
5
I never have, since the establishment of my Work,
had occasion to change to various or different names.
There are lahouszulds living who can testify from first-
hand knowledgethatmy publishing company has always
been known as the Philosophical Publishing Company,
and notlling else, and it is so registered.
"'_l‘hose who have had charge of the Work of the
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 33
Fraternityhave never avoided but have always used the
complete and correct name of tl1e Rosicrucian Fraternity,
Brotherhood or Order, the name and symbols used by the
Founders of the Fraternity. This also is known to thou-
sands of adherents and need not be unknown to any
honest investigator.
SUPREME HIERARCHY
aF THE
R. C.
’
13513-1917
‘This letterhead contains the Randolph insignia and was used by us from the
beginning of our labois and ended with the cycle 1917. .
alts @112
525:2]: gxlxrrnlzs 3.l1I‘I}I.e1fi:5tI(lbxhrm:
This letterhead also contains the R's_.m:lalph insignia and was. and still is, used
when corresponding with students in the Probationary courses of study.
FRA-nz1aNn:Aa'IsROSAE CRUCIS
THE SEE
BeverlyHall
Quakertown. Pa.
Official letterhead with original insignia. of the Rosicnlclan Fraternitzh This
is most. frequently used in correspondence with foreign bodies atfiliated with the
original 1616 foundation.
FRATERNITA9'13 ROSAE CRUCIS
‘Tb:Rasiaruclao Order, or
Rosfcruaian Brotherhood THE SEE ‘
BeverlyHall
Quaherfown, Pa.
The official letterhead of the Fraternity, Brotherhood and Order as established
in America by Randolph. The terms Fraternity, Brotherhood and Order are used
interchangeably now as in the time of Randolph. The words Roslerucia (Rosicru-
cian), Eulis and Pythiunia (AEth Priesthood) also appeared on all Charters Issued
by Randolph up to and including the year 1874 as is shown by the Charter form
hereinafter reproduced.
34 MUNCHAUSEN OF
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 35
original teachings and methods of training that have ,
been in use in the Fraternityfor three hundred or more
years and wholly different from the instructions given
by the Amorc which, Mr. Lewis has admitted under oath
in his various law suits, were prepared by specialists or
taken from books readily bought for a few dollars and
which, therefore, cannot, by any stretch of the imagina-
tion, be considered as either true, ancient, original or
authenticRosicrucian teachings.
Our authorizedteachings have not been presented
“under different names” as all those who know, can and
willwitness. They are the instructions which have been
given to Neophytes since the foundation of the Great
Fraternity,under which I was trained.
1”
In the face of known facts, well—known to Mr."
Lewis, his statement to the effect that we have estab-
lished no Rosicruoian Temples anywhere in America, is T
as ridiculous as it is false. We have esta.blished other
“-itypical” Rosicrucian Temples in America, however,
for my present purpose it is sufficient to point to the fact
that during the year 1910 the Fraternity, under my
direction, completed the construction of a Temple build-
ing at the present See in Pennsylvania,from native stone
—a “typical” Rosierucian Temple—-designed for the
holding of the annual June and Al1JSouls convocations
as well as for other Rosicrucian uses. It is still standing
and used, sacred to its original design and purposes.
Herewithwe publish a. picture of this Temple.
Mr. Lewis was informed of the foregoing facts in or
about the year 1915, at the time he started his clandes-
tine Rosicrueian organization—a.nd prior to the ublica—
tion of the illustrationof his “First Rosicrucianriflemple
in U. S. A.” hereafter referred to and reproduced. Aside
from his general knowledge on the subject, he was spe-
cially informed by one, (to again refer to said incident)
who was present at the Temple dedication, whose name
is on the roster of the Temple, and who afterwards affili-
ated herself With Mr. Lewis. Later, in a letter written
to me, he brazenly boasted, as before stated that the
lady in question was Working hand in hand ,with him,
thathe had induced her to turn over‘ to him the strictly
as MUNCHAUSEN OF TI-IIE OC'CULT
ing.
is
build
in
th
The
Chapel
built
at
-Beverly
Hall
and
officially
opened
in
June,
1911.
‘Both
June
and
All
Souls
night
services
are
held
yearly
'
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED »
3-7
private books and Ina11usc1‘ipts tl1at she had obtained,
under her sacred vow, from the Fraternityat tl1e time of
the dedication of said Temple during the June c011voca—
I
tion, 1911. Mr. Lewis Still _1‘etains said private books
and malmseripts which were delivered to him at his
behest under broken vows. Perhaps, such is his concep-
tion of l1one1'able fraternal conduct in himself and of
those who take and break sacredVows and solemn oaths:
This Temple, since used continuallyfor the semi—annual
convoeations, still stands a mute and irrefutable witness
against which no tissue of lies or false implications,con-
ceived and circulated by Mr. Lewis, can prevail. With-
mit going into detail, we will say for the benefit of the
_
11ninfe1'me_(_l, _who care to know, that the Fraternity,
which has members all over America, is established in
other cities, notably Kansas City,Mo., where it owns its
Temple.
,
THE THREE “FIRST” ROSIGRUGIAN
TEMPLES IN THE U. S. A.
Three “
Virst” Temples! Ridiculous'?—of course it
is, yet on three different occasions, (dates hereafter
given) Mr. Lewis has published three different descrip-
tions, with illustrations,of three different buildingseach
at’ which he has boldly asserted to be the “First Rosi-
c1'ucia.u Temple in the U. S. A. or in the New World.”
Here we have a remarkablephenorninal illusion, such as
can be produced only by a past master of the black art
of fabrication. Indeed, who only, save a careless and
reckless charlatan would have or could have the unmiti-
gated gall and brazen efl'rontery to make such ridiculous-
ly contradictory claims”? To be sure, it is co11clusive and
apparent that
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 39
order of their appearance; herewith we reproduce a full
page from the Lewis publication, the American Rosae
Grucis, March issue, 1916, containing a description and
an illustrationof a building alleged to be the “First
Rosicrucian Temple in U. S. A. ”
The description is typi-
cally Lewistonian, i11 that it contains a grain of truth
and now and thena half-truth. Read the description and
make your own investigationas to the whole truth. The '
building is somewhat symbolical of true Rosicrucianism
in that it has an upright triangle at the top, but it was
and is not symbolical of Mr. Lewis’s clandestine organi-
zatipii, because its symbol was then and is new the in-
verted triangle. Mr, Lewis did lease a part of this build-
ing at 70 West 87th‘Street, New York City, where he had
his headquarters for a short time, having failed to pay
‘
the rent, the career of the “First Temple” ended ab-
ruptly. Since he could not pay the rent, it is apparent
that the elaborate description of the luxurious furnish-
ings was just so much “window dressing” for a high-
pressured pecuniary scheme thatwas intended to be and
has been conducted under the Sacred name of Rosicru-
cian, contrary to every vital precept, basic principle and
ancient landmarkof the authenticFraternity,Order and
Brotherhood.
To be sure, Mr. Lewis knew of the several Temples
and Lodges of the Fraternityestablished in America un-
der the Randolph foundation, and of course, he knew of
the existence of the Templeat thepresent See of the Fra-
.1'crnity, as above pointed out, when he made his “First
Temple” claim; however, it was not until the abundan_t
and irrefutable proof of those facts became generally
l<11o\vn and l1is followers and other interested parties be
gan to question his authorityand the Rosicrucian authen-
ticity of his organization, that he realized that he must
abandon his claim concerning the “First Temple” at 70
West 87th Street, New York City, and establish or find
~so1newl1e1'e a Rosicrucian Temple that anti-dated the
Randolph Foundation and somehow, in some mysterious
way connect his clandestine organizationwith said prior
Temple; but finding no such Temple in fact, he looked
deep into the ever pregnant and prolificwomb of his im-
40 MUNC1-IAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
THE ENIGMA OF THE THREE "FIRST" TEMPLES
"
CAN YOU SOLVE IT!
On the opposite page is shown a. repfoductiun of a full page
‘
taken from the Lewis Publication THE AMERICAN ROSAE GR-USIS.
March. 1916. Page 9. In there any other interpretation poflsibie than
that Mr. Lewis means that this was the first Temple in America?
Read. the descriptive matter and convince Von:-self.
I:‘a$I
n——n_—-.—u—.-1
WI
1
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 41
THE AMERICAN ROSA}! CRUCIS
First Rosaecrucian Temple in U. S. A.
The Home of the Grand Lodge in New York City
T last America has its own Rosae-
cmcian TempleI" In these few
words are expressed the realization
of a century of dreams and a life-
time of hopes. Embodied in one
material monument are the plans
and prospects of the entire Rosae-
crucian movement in the United
States. This line building is not
only thehome of theGrand Lodge,
but the very pyramid of the Order
in America.
It is withconsiderable pride that
we illustrateand describethisTeln-
ple. Situated in the heart of New
York Cit)-—-in the select residen-
tial district, remote from business
and commereia1ism——ithas an ideal
environment.
Its outward appearance is digni-
fied and rather symbolical. The
lower part of the building is of
brown stone while the upper part
is of red brick. It has five stories
and is topped with the significant
triangle, as shown in accompany-
ing illustration.
The first floor, approached by a
wide-sweeping stairway. contains 8
wide reception hall from which one
may enter the Executive Office or
the Grand Lodge Temple. The
_Exer:I.tt:iveOffice is richlyfurnished
land here will be found the desks
of the Irnpcrstor. the Secretary
General, the Prelate and Editor of
the American Rosae Crucis. Ad-
joining this is the Reception and
Music Room where ‘every facility for a
quiet talk and hour or two of music and read-
ing will be afiordecl to every visitor. Thcn,.in
the rear of the Hour is the '.l'cInpie._large and
convenient. with its triangular platform and
Altar and the otherarticles of all Lodge equip-
ment. This Temple is decorated in Red with
10 West sun St.. New Yo:-Ii.
Black Woodwork and Panels. and beautifully
illuminatedwith electric lights at the sides of
the room and in the centre of the ceiling.‘
There is a small alcove adjoining the Temple
which provides room for the experimentaleiec.
trical equipment and the Wireless Telegraph
Station belonging to the Grand
Lodge. In the rear of the Temple
is thechemical,physicaland electri-
cal laboratory for the conduct of
Rosaecrucian researches and the
testing of certain laws and prin-
eiplcs.
On the Second Floor—to the
frcml:—is the Grand Lodge Library
and Rest Room. This will be the
largest Rosaecrucian -Library in
America as soon as all the books
are installed and all are received
from those who have been with-
holdingtheircontributionsof books
until such a Library was estab-
lishcd.
On the Third Floor, in the rear,
there is an open-air summer gar-
den for recreation and study. On
the fourth floor there is one room
being planned as a photographic
experimental laboratory for work
along special lines which are oc-
cupying the attcntion of‘ Rosaecru-
cians in many lands.
In addition to these rooms there
are a number of guest chambers
occupied by those in charge of the
Temple and by a few who are in
sympathy with our work.
All in all this is it Temple of
which every Rosaecrucian will be proud. We
shall be glad to have memberrofour Order
from any city visit us at any time and enjoy
our rooms andthefacilitiesfor study and pleas-
ure afforded in every possible way. Likewise
we shall be pleased to receive donations from
our friends of pictures and antiquities.
Page Nine
42 -
MUNCI-IAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
agination and brought forth his second “First Tem-
ple” and with tl1e aid of a11 art'1st’s skill,he published a
spurious or very much doctored picture of the second
“First Temple” as the frontispiece of his propaganda
booklet, The Wisdom of the Sages, “official publication
number sixteen,” copyrightedNovember,1932, which he
described as “The First Bosicrucian Temple in the New
‘World, built on land granted 1689 by Wm. Penn, Fair-
mount Park,Philadelplfia.” An exact copy withsaid de-
scription is herewithreproduced. In View of Mr. Lewis’
moving“ and shifting habits, it is not at all strange that
he shifted from one first Temple to another, he has al-
ways moved from one place to another and shifted his
position, when necessary—and it has often been neces-
sary.
Evidently the spurious synthetic picture of the sec-
ond “First Temple” was not satisfactory to Mr. Lewis,
mjlbzxnxcgjq--an-: :;-n—n:~::un
THE ENIGMA OF THE THREE “FIRST” TEMPLES
CAN YOU SOLVE IT?
On the opposite page is a reproduction of the second "FIRST"
Rosicrucian Temple in America, according to Mr. Lewis. This is
taken from his booklet “The Wisdom of the Sages" and is copy-
righted 1932, or just about sixteen years after the description and .
photograph of his fix-at “FIRST” Rosicrucian Temple was published.
WHICH IS CORRECT?
I-jj— I—7—-:I—u In-u-—-:1
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED
+Phi1°ad’ “-‘
44
'
.
MUNCI-IAHUSEN OF THE OCCULT
01' possibly he entertained fears that the same could not
be identified in history, nor located in fact, so in 1933 in
the Aprilnumber of his offieial organ, The Rosaecrucian
Digest, he published tl1e picture‘of the third “First Tem-
ple” with the following description. “First Rosaecru-
cian Buildings. The lower part of this structure is part
of the first R-osaecruciall Temple, built in 1694-1695, on.
-the banks of the Wissaliickon River. It is now within
the limits of Fairmount Park and is still occupied (by
whom°l) and marked as an historical site . . .
.” We
also reproduce herewith the picture of the third “First
Temple” as it appeared in the above mentioned Lewis
publication.
To be sure, the buildinglast rcl'cr1'ed to, now stand-
ing in Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, was not built by
Rosaeerucialis and never was a Bosicrucian Temple.
The facts concerning this historic building are discussed
at some length in the Brochure, The Masters Among‘
Men, which may be had free of charge upon application _
by all who are interested.
—u:—-—l
THE ENIGMA OF THE "FIRS'l"" ROSICRUCIAN TEMPLE
CAN YOU SOLVE IT?
Templw. We will now show you the third of these "ii:-st" templm.
In the April, 1933, number of The Rosicrucian Digest you will find this
third “fin-st" temple illustrated with the wording as given below undu-
picture. It is easy for the reader to investigate our statements by
procuring these All-IORG publications, whether it is as easy for him to
accept: the "Jonah" story is a question.
'
WHlC»H'W.A.S THE FIRST TEMPLE? Our answer is. that not
one of these was Rosicrucian in any sense of the word and Mr. Lewis
is himself uncertain or he would not attempt to foster such an im-
possible imposition upon his followers. This three "first" temple story
is as true. and no more so. as is all that he has ever written on
Roslcrucianisrn.
We have shown you two of Mr. Lewis’ "First" Rnsicrucian
iQ
.—q.—-u-9...-—.-—-u—a-—-—-I
Description by Mr. Lew'i9--Verbatim
FIRST AMERICAN ROSICRUCIAN BUILDING
‘The lower part of this structure is part of the first Roaicrucian Tempie, built in 1694-1695, on the
banks of the Wissahickon River. It is now within the limits of Fairmcmnt Park. and is still occupied-
and marked at: an historical site. . . .
" '
.C['E{SOcIX‘E[
NSINI.I.S'EI(INV’IC)
\
46 MUNCHAUSEN OF THE OCCULT
Upon the subject of Lodges and first Temples in
America, we herewith reproduce the form of the Charter
used by Dr. Randolph in establishing Lodges and Tem-
ples in Ainerica in the Ytar1874 and prior thereto. (For
obvious reasons, we do not reproduce and publish copies
ofexecuted Charters.) If i11 view of Mr. Lewis’ many
contradictions and several admissions, further proof is
desired to establish that Dr. Randolph and his founda-
tion established Rosicrucian Lodges and Temples in
Americaprior to the Lewis fabrication,then thisCharter‘
form as used by Dr. Randolphin the year 1874 and prior
thereto, should be sufficient and ample. However, addi-
tional proof seems to be whollyunnecessary, since a com-
parison of the publication and oonflictingstatements of
Mr. Lewis willirresistably lead to the correct conclusion,
that he is capable of promoting and sponsoring any kind -
of propaganda, however, false, contradictory, inconsis-
tent, impossible, or otherwise, if it serves his needs and
suits his purpose, or perhaps even his fancy. Truly,the
misrepresentation and degradation of .a great work or
cause and the betrayal of many earnest souls doesn’t
seem, in the least, to trouble his conscience.
1“
Indeed, how does this pseudo Rosicrucian know‘
that we are “without any connection with the reg'ula.'.'
Rosicrucian Order and Lodges in Europe?” In truth,
he does not know. Not being a member of the regular
and authenticOrder and possessing no lawful authority
to establish or maintain his clandestine fabrication un-
der a Rosicrucian designation, he is not now and never
has been in a position to know. As a matter of fact, at? .
the time (1856) when Dr. Randolphlawfully established
—
the regular Order and authenticFraternity in America,
he was Grand Master of the Supreme Grand Dome of the
Rosicrucians of France (a fact admitted to be trueiby
Mr. Lewis)" He was also a member of the International
Council. His successors in office have continuouslymain-
tained proper connections and fraternal relations with
_
the International Council, even unto this day.
In all his later literature, Mr. Lewis continually
makes the statements that the Rose Cross was first es-
tablished in Pennsylvania, though he falsifies dates and
.
pi»,
.-‘L-'.‘i"\"""
"
}3,.i'fi:~.'-I‘;.3.-.2:
.,:.a.'
i
I‘.-'-x‘,;7,:
'4‘
CLANDESTINISM EXPOSED 47
facts. Notably,he fails to tell his readers thatthis‘State,
Pennsylvania, has a strict law governing all Fraternal
organizations, associations, societies and companies, re-
quiring them to file theirnames and objects before they
may lawfully function and that but one organization of
a given or similar name may register. He further fails
to tell them that The Fraternity of Rosicrucians—0rder
of the Rose Cross, includingits variants, of the Randolph
Foundation, was established in Pennsylvania prior to
1895 and is registered as required by law. .He is silent
.on the fact that despite all Laws, civil and fraternal, he
is iclandestinely active in defiance of the law, just as
he continues active Masonicly in a like clandestine
manner.
Mr. Lewis has strong reasons for his silence on all
these matters.
Lastly, compare this statement made in The Ameri-
can Rosac Grucis, April, 1916, page 14:
.
Its world-wide, established symbol is the triangle
with ‘the point downward and with the cross within the
triangle."
with the informationgiven on the last cover page of his
late booklet, The Wisdom of the Sages, where, beneath-
his Trade Mark, he says: -
“The above symbols were duly registered solely for the
protection of the work of the Rosicruclan Order in North
America. and the AMORC is the only Rosicrucian organi-
zation authorizedto use this registered imprint and symbol
in the United States.”
Does Mr. Lewis not know that the inverted triangle,
in the Occult and Mystic, is the symbolizationof the evil
forces, of the BlackBrotherliood,the Anti—Ohrist against
_
which Andrea in his Fame. Fraternitatis Warned all seek-
ers, and that it is the Seal or Insignia of the Prince of
false teachings?
Why does Mr. Lewis fail to inform his readers that
the true, original and authentic Rosicrucian Symbol
could not be TracieMarked because it had long been in
continuous use and thathis Trade Marked symbolization
is a faked substitute for the genuine‘?
