{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__boddington___trance_states.pdf","mytitle":"Trance States","mylang":"de"}
"PSYCHIC NEWS"
BOOKLET-3
TRANCE STATES
in Relation to
SPIRIT CONTROL
By Harry Boddington
Author of the series,
" University of Spiritualism,"
in "Psychic News"
Obtainable from the author at
THE LONDON PSYCHIC EDUCATIONAL CENTRE
17 Ashmere Grove, Acre Lane, London, S.W.2
PUBLISHED BY
PSYCHIC PRESS LTD.
144 High Holborn, London, W.C.1
vvtc~ LQ~~r~/ A6I5'&A
CONTENTS
WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL MEANS ......
BIBLICAL PARALLELS ...... ... ...
METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT ...... ...
CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE ...
ANALYSIS OF PSYCHIC SENSATIONS ...
MENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS ... ... ...
PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS .......
SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE ... ...
COLOURED SPIRIT CO-OPERATORS ... ...
SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES ...
CONCLUSIONS ... ... ... ...
........... 1-5
... .. ... ... 6-9
... ... ... ... 10-16
... ... ... ... 17-22
... ... ... ... 23-28
.. .. ....... 29-32
... ... ... ... 33-37
... .. ... ... 38-43
... .. ... ... 44-48
... ... ... ... 49-55
... ... ... ... 56-61
... ... ... ... 62-64
WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL
MEANS
T HE recent Meurig Morris case
proved most conclusively how
hazy most people are as to the
meaning of the word "trance."
Yet, if one said of scenery, "It is
entrancing; I was spellbound," or of
a thrilling play, " I was hypnotized;
I could not take my eyes off the actor,"
everyone would immediately realize
that a conditioned limitation of con-
sciousness was implied.
In the Meurig Morris case, it was
abundantly clear the jury accepted
that idea of trance, and repudiated any
suggestion of dishonesty on the
medium's part.
The only difference of opinion pre-
sented was as to what caused the
trance. Those who had not satisfied
themselves that spirit people exist
capable of inducing trance states, re-
pudiated the theory offhand, and
sought every other possible explana-
tion.
SPIRITS' MENTAL INTERFERENCE
Those who argued by inference that
Mrs. Morris, unaided by external in-
telligences, was incapable of producing
the lengthy discourses that pour
through her lips in a continuous,
coherent stream, often repudiated all
other theories.
From my standpoint, both parties
are right in varying degrees, because
all trance states are induced through
a limitation or expansion of conscious-
ness in the instrument affected.
In addition, Spiritualists recognize,
that the brain and vocal organs of a
sensitive cannot be employed by any
discarnate entity without some mental
interference by the owner of the
mechanism.
In the result, no fact is more fully
recognized among Spiritualists than
that of the impingement of the
medium's own ideas or words during
spirit control. This is akin to tele-
pathy through a hypnotized subject,
whose subconscious interference is
often discernible.
RELIGIOUS IMPLICATIONS
Scientific investigators look with
suspicion on all forms of emotionalism,
and even discount obviously religious
implications in the messages them-
selves, not merely as non-evidential but
as proving subconscious action.
Yet it is an incontrovertible fact
that, almost without exception,
mediums able to give satisfactory
evidence of discarnate action, sooner
or later emphasize the religious
aspects.
The next point that forces itself
upon the attention is that statements
of themselves, during entrancement, do
not prove discarnate action. Lec-
turers may discourse for weeks with-
out in any way revealing their identity.
In the nature of things it must be so.
How, then, are we to decide whether
a medium is entranced by a discarnate
entity or merely expressing a phase of
consciousness normally quiescent ?
The answer is simple but clear. It is
when fnediums speak foreign lan-
guages they could not have learned,
or deal explicitly with subjects of
which they have no normal knowledge,
that the spirit hypothesis is acclaimed
as the only one that satisfactorily
covers all the facts.
It is upon this groundwork that
Spiritualists take their stand. Very
few deny that the discarnate mentality
is unaffected by the medium's own
mind.
For a clear understanding of trance,
it is therefore essential that students
should grasp some theories of hypnot-
ism as well as self-induced but little
B
WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL MEANS
understood phases of mentality classi-
fied under the head of psychology.
"OPEN DOOR" TO KNOWLEDGE
We must also note the medium's
religious beliefs, together with all
other possible sources of acquired
knowledge and ideas, before we can
clearly decide what part of the mani-
festation is subnormal and what may
be more correctly classified as super-
normal or normal.
Trance mediumship is the " open
door " to boundless fields of knowledge
and experience. Comparatively few
cross its threshold and retain complete
remembrance of all they realize, be-
cause the physical brain dims the spirit
memory, and because we have no
analogies by which psychic experience
can be translated into language.
Nor can everyone pass through that
door, though the vast majority can
glance through the portals of the
mystic realm and forever realize "I
am a spirit."
THE PSYCHIC'S EQUIPMENT
The pre-requisites for exploration
are physical adaptability and psychic
or soul quality. You can discover
whether you possess these by sitting
calmly and prayerfully awaiting the
" descent of the holy spirit."
Whether the possessor of these
qualifications will gain response from
a "holy" spirit or one of humanity's
misfits, is determined by his measure of
aspiration, will, persistence and the-
nature of his mental and physiGal sur-
roundings, for all these affect the
result.
During the "opening of the door "
many curious experiences befall the in-
vestigator. It is because these are so
generally misunderstood that I shall
narrate in simple language conclu-
sions resulting from nearly forty years
experimental research, in which the
development of mediumship played a
conspicuous part.
For seventeen years, with my wife
as acting medium, we kept open house
free to all comers, and during that time
organized two of the most successful
societies in London.
It is gratifying to note that those
who are following in our steps find it
necessary to adopt our working hypo-
thesis to secure results. This is at
least presumptive evidence that we
were on the right track.
But it is to be regretted that the
rough and ready methods of pioneers
are not improved upon and a deeper
insight into the rationale of medium-
ship discovered and utilised.
Many and varied are the authorities
who will assure you that my conclu-
sions are wrong. On examination it
will be found that fully ninety per
cent. of these " authorities" are
entirely ignorant of elementary seance-
room experience. Impertinent assump-
tion is their sole qualification.
The remaining ten per cent. can
usually be dismissed because their un-
warrantable fears, prejudice or in-
tolerance render them useless as
teachers.
Others merely witness specific
phases of development and erroneously
conclude that what applies to one in-
dividual applies to all. This generali-
zation is often wrong because the
finished product is in no way com-
parable to the stumbling, experimental
phases of early development.
Mediumship is as natural as the use
of eyes and ears. It is merely a dif-
ferent mode of utilizing consciousness.
During early development, the sensa-
tions induced often lead to widely
divergent conclusions.
"A LITTLE LEARNING- "
At this point it is emphatically true
that "a little learning is a dangerous
thing." Hundreds of people rush into
print with entirely misleading state-
ments which more mature experience
would correct.
Hence it is that mediums uncon-
scious of their powers, become the prey
of rogues, or suffer under priestly con-
demnation. They greedily swallow
theories advanced by inexperienced
people whose " authority " is an
isolated text from scripture, or quota-
WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL MEANS
tions from literature they completely
misunderstand.
Too often, books are written for
mere sensationalism, or with the de-
liberate purpose of scaring investiga-
tors. It is essential to clearly recognize
these aspects in order that we may
immediately jettison fear and super-
stition, for until these go overboard it
will be unwise for you to develop
psychic powers.
The true Spiritualist attitude is
scientific. First marshal and examine
your facts. Philosophy and religion
will evolve naturally from that basis.
No people have been more mis-
understood than mediums-at one time
worshipped as fetish or saviour, and
anon burned as witches and wizards.
In modern life they figure as genius
or crank, and may be considered for-
tunate if their eccentricity is insuffi-
ciently pronounced to land them in the
lunatic asylum.
Small wonder, then, that thousands
hide their experiences from the world
rather than incur its ignorant con-
demnation. Thanks to the advent of
modern Spiritualism, ignorance is
gradually being ousted by knowledge,
and neither priest nor materialist can
stay its onward march.
In England alone we have over five
hundred organized societies, and
thousands of independent investigators
advocating its claims. Scientists are
continually adding their testimony, so
that even " the man in the street" now
patronizingly admits there may be
something in psychic phenomena worth
considering.
WHAT IS A GENIUS?
The difference between a genius and
a medium is that the former is born
with mediumship already operative
which escapes observation because the
blending of spirit action with normal
expression is perfect. Identical
results may be obtained by mediums
who pass through unconscious control
to conscious co-operation-our ideal.
The best mediums discover as de-
velopment proceeds, that a dawning
knowledge of what they have been
saying while entranced, gradually be-
comes part of normal consciousness.
We therefore evolve an approximation
to genius in the developed medium.
Genius was said to be allied to mad-
ness because the instrument is so ex-
ceedingly delicate that the least over-
strain upsets mental poise. Mediumship
may likewise be defined as "mentality
delicately poised," because the slightest
interference often destroys its evi-
dential value.
In the latter case, it does not indicate
lunacy, but that the gates of heaven
have suddenly closed, and the medium,
like Paul, is left wondering whether he
is "in the spirit or not."
In development, the best results are
gained by regular times of sitting with
all minds definitely agreeable to the
work in hand. The home circle thus
forms the bedrock of Spiritualism,
because it is happily natural and free
from the hypercriticism of pseudo
scientific investigators, who invariably
"kill the goose that lays the golden
eggs."
Their methods are often similar to
those of the child who first pricks his
air balloon and then marvels that he
cannot afterwards inflate it.
SITTERS' ATTITUDE OF MIND
In seance work, thought is the
dominant factor. Injudiciously direc-
ted, it neutralizes the very elements we
are examining. The mental attitude
of all present istherefore our primary
consideration.
To recognize the facts of hypnotism
and telepathy, and ignore their opera-
tions during so-called scientific seances,
is childish folly.
In public or semi-public gatherings,
harmony is best created by hymn and
prayer, preceded by a judiciously
selected reading that focuses all minds
on the purpose of the meeting. When
sitting alone, meditation induces
similar conditions.
Care must be taken to eliminate
auto-suggestion, but do not make a
bogey of it. Some people are so bitten
with this theory, that the most marvel-
lous manifestations are attributed to
14 WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL MEANS
subconscious action, notwithstanding
the fact that results are definitely
traceable to spirit guidance.
Do not sit alone during development
if you fear loss of consciousness. This
stage is only permissible when experi-
enced sitters are present.
The seance-room must not be over-
heated or the breath impeded, or
natural sleepiness may be mistaken
for the somnolence of entrancement.
A few minutes dumb-bell exercise be-
fore the sitting induces healthy breath-
ing and should never be neglected by
phlegmatic temperaments.
Then sit upright and meditate upon
the motive influencing your desires. If
these are purely material, or positively
degrading, postpone development until
you learn more of conditions apper-
taining to spirit life; its grey lands,
obsession, psychic maladies, and
various results incidental to the abuse
of psychic powers.
If you are satisfied that your motive
is to bless humanity, rest assured that
the blessing you desire for others will
be yours.
Ignorance of mediumship is prob-
ably responsible for more real lunacy
than any other cause. The terrible
fear that " visions," or "voices," may
be premonitory symptoms of nervous
breakdown, and lead to incarceration
in a lunatic asylum for life, has often
transformed incipient mediumship into
a ghastly horror that actualizes its own
fears.
In conscious development that dread
is unknown, and magnetization by
spirit helpers continually restores ner-
vous equilibrium. Properly under-
stood, mediumship will do much
towards emptying the asylums and,
instead of being regarded as a curse,
will be recognized as the greatest
possible manifestation of divine love.
ESSENTIALS OF MEDIUMSHIP
Love of truth with modesty and firm-
ness are essential to clear and concise
mediumship. It requires great courage
to admit that what you hitherto attri-
buted to unaided ability was in reality
due to spirit help.
It may require still more to admit
the contrary. But what have you to
fear? You have but discovered other
attributes of your own soul and can
now educate faculties that will prove
permanent "treasures in heaven."
Spiritualists are on solid ground.
Their methods of research have yielded
more definite proof of spirit life and
conditioning than centuries of theo-
logical speculation achieved.
They are vivifying decadent systems
of religion, as well as laying scientific
foundations for the universal religion
of the future. Progress is slow and
error dies hard, because those who
adopted the profession of preaching
as a mode of livelihood in the same
spirit as their brothers took up
soldiering or law, oppose every step of
the way.
Even when compelled to acknow-
ledge psychic experiences they often
confuse the issues by attaching the
phenomena to ancient errors in order
to retain their grip on the unthinking
masses. Realize these aspects, and
resolve to be scientific.
Do not allow prejudice, superstition
or emotionalism to mislead you.
Absorb all of truth you possibly can,
and do not distort it, for if you desire
the highest mediumship, you must
resolve to stand firmly for "the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth."
In the domain of materialism, our
contribution has been no less forceful.
Long before the average mind grasped
the significance of interpenetrating
ethers, spirit operators were teaching
Spiritualists how they manipulated its
elements.
Thanks to Sir William Crookes and
other channels of inspiration, Science
has definitely advanced. Our hypo-
theses are sound and, though con-
tinually attacked, emerge triumphant
from every ordeal.
The mere fact that Spiritualism
alone produces the very mediums
scientists are belatedly examining is
sufficient proof of our basis.
Opponents are now busy classifying
evidences they can no longer deny.
WHAT SPIRIT CONTROL MEANS 5
Their terminologies often obscure the
origin of the phenomena they learnedly
dogmatize upon, and import the pre-
judices of word-makers into the new
vocabulary that is arising.
DOORWAY TO TRUTH
Thus do they rob the angels of their
meed of praise in the vain endeavour
to prove that the soul of Man is but
a bundle of conscienceless constituents.
If Spiritualism opens the doorway
of Truth for you, are you brave enough
to "plough a lonely furrow" in its
defence ! If not, then it will be best
to wait awhile before adding to your
responsibilities.
But, if you wish to join hands with
reformers everywhere, and are willing
to emblazon on your standard " Truth
Against the World," the angels have
need of you; go forward.
They teach that the attributes of
God are Love, Truth and Wisdom, and
where these lead you must follow and
thus become attuned to infinite pro-
gression.
BIBLICAL PARALLELS
FEW people understand the actual
teaching of the New Testament on
spirit control. They readily per-
ceive that " evil" spirits controlled, but
quite fail to see that "holy " spirits
controlled far more often and took an
active part in "casting out" those
who abused the privileges of medium-
ship.
It was by the control of a "holy"
spirit that the psychic faculties of all
upon whom they " descended" were
" quickened."
THE HOLY GHOST
Spiritualists are fully aware that one
of the best methods of developing
"spiritual gifts" is via the trance
state induced by a " holy " spirit.
I spell the words "holy" and
"spirit " with small letters instead of
capitals. No disrespect is intended by
this more correct method of writing
the words. The reason you have not
perceived the obvious truth before, is
because theologians and translators of
the Bible have persistently mistrans-
lated passages in order to support
trinitarianism.
They believed that a personal God
alone performed the " miracles"
recorded in the New Testament.
They positively ignored the human
element indicated. The day has now
passed when you can control the think-
ing world by suggesting mysterious
limits beyond which the mind must not
soar, and we now dare to question even
the possibilities and nature of the
Godhead itself.
Miracles are now supplanted by
knowledge of natural laws, and, as
priest-created boundaries fall, we
realise that if the reputed "miracles "
happened, it was by the operation of
laws it is our bounden duty to study.
In both Greek and Hebrew versions,
the word " holy " means " separate."
Instead of the revisers recognizing that
this connotes "individualized," they
have imported Deity into purely
human happenings by printing the
words " holy " and " spirit " with
capital letters.
The plain and simple truth was thus
obliterated. Remove the capital letters
and the reading of the New Testament
will require neither theological juggling
nor superstitious blindness to under-
stand its simple teaching.
Please note that the word "ghost"
is more correctly rendered " spirit"
in the Welsh and other versions of the
Bible.
As "spirit " is derived from
" spiritus" "breath," the literal mean-
ing of the "descent of the holy
spirit" is, that when the breath of
God-spirit power-floods our being,
if at the same moment the aspirant is
"baptized "-i.e. a magnetic per-
sonality establishes the essential link
by means of the "imposition of hands "
-a " holy spirit " will thereafter asso-
ciate himself with the medium.
Read your Bible with this key in
your minds and you will find it unlocks
its mysteries. The ceremony is still
used in some churches where faith
healing is practised, but having long
since degenerated into a superstitious
formality divorced from all under
standing of psychic laws, it is rarely
effective.
Now and again a magnetic healer,
unconscious of his powers, joins them,
and the beneficent results of his work
are then attributed to a special en-
dorsement by God of their sectarian
observances.
The actual truth is, that they are
unconsciously utilizing a law common
to all mankind.
PRINTERS TO BLAME
Translate the words "holy spirit"
and " holy ghost" as " spirit power"
if you wish, but please note that it
always manifests as an individuality.
The language spoken is purely human,
and it is in every way identical with
what Spiritualists recognize as a
"control " or " spirit guide."
Owing to their training, printers are
probably the worst offenders by per-
BIBLICAL PARALLELS
sisting in printing "ghost" and
" spirit" in capital letters and thus
importing the wrong idea into the
words.
Even in books which repudiate the
deity of Jesus, this inconsistency will
be found, making the arguments of the
writers absurd.
The Rev. G. Vale Owen pointed out
to me that the Bible itself does not so
often write pronouns referring to
Jesus in capital letters as does the
modern printer. He corrected his
printer's copy many times, but finally
gave it up as hopeless.
Entrancement by capable (i.e.
" holy " or " separate ") spirit guides
is 'a frequent preliminary to general
unfoldment of psychic powers. Spirit
control stimulates hitherto unused por-
tions of the brain and psychic organism
in a perfectly healthy and natural
manner.
PSYCHIC EXERCISES
Exercise produces precisely the
same effect upon the psychic or spirit
body as the exercise of physical
muscles on the material body. That
is to say, they become stronger.
The word " gift" is to this extent
a misnomer. Just as a strong man
can do things impossible to the weak-
ling, so is a medium merely one who
uses the normal attributes of the soul
in a somewhat different way to his
fellows.
The natural aptitudes of mediums
thus come into play much sooner than
if they slowly plod through life in the
ordinary way. The coalescing of the
mentality of the spirit with that of
the medium brings about, by tele-
pathic processes, precisely the same
result as a teacher in constant contact
with a pupil.
This is clearly seen when an appar-
ently non-musical medium co-operates
with a spirit guide having a passion
for music. Similar tastes and-talents
very quickly display themselves in the
medium. His indifference to music
gradually changes to appreciative
delight.
After a spirit has mastered the
subtleties of control, he automatically
accelerates all the latent faculties of the
sensitive.
We must note the fact that many
people have co-operated with "holy"
spirits all their lives but are quite
ignorant as to the personalities of their
guides, until clairvoyants describe them
and reveal the similarity of tastes
between medium and spirit.
Most extempore speakers, poets and
musical improvisors are mediums of
this order. Their soul's expression,
rather than approbation or physical
necessities, is the dominant note in
their lives.
Love of an ideal is the very best
form of development psychics can
choose. It attracts like-minded souls
only too anxious to further *their
ambitions. Some are born with psychic
faculties all ready to blossom forth as
soon as " quickening by a holy spirit"
causes them to burst into manifestation.
Perfect development becomes pos-
sible only when holy aspiration blends
with the unfoldment of the soul's
powers. If psychic gifts are deve-
loped from purely selfish motives, it is
quite possible that true spiritual de-
velopment may be delayed.
This constitutes abuse instead of
right use of psychic powers. Therein
is the difference between control by a
"holy" spirit and others.
REPRESSED POWERS
Many begin investigations, merely
to discover that they have been busy
all their lives suppressing what they
erroneously thought was evidence of a
diseased imagination.
These people quickly respond to
mediumistic training, and their rapid
development proves to be but the
operation of faculties previously mis-
understood.
If control by holy spirits had not
been instituted, the New Testament
could not have been written. It is
solely because of the psychic evidences
presented, that the Bible is regarded as
sacred writings.
Our explanation rationally inter-
prets the frequent mention of the
" descent of the holy spirit" with all
its personal attributes. Results were
8 BIBLICAL PARALLELS
always the same, and identical with
those of every seance room. The one
:"baptised" became a prophet, healer
or seer, or spoke in foreign languages,
or in other ways proved that he
was associating with mentalities of a
purely human type, whose knowledge
was in many ways superior to his own.
PROOFS OF TEACHINGS
Even the name of the "holy" spirit
is sometimes given, as in Luke i. 15,
17: "He shall be filled with the holy
ghost from his mother's womb ... and
he shall go before him in the spirit
and power of Elias." What happened
to John the Baptist is a fairly common
experience among strikingly evidential
mediums.
Thp strength of the Nazarene's
teaching lay in the fact that he proved
his case by mediumistic evidences.
These were so powerful that he has
since been worshipped as a God, de-
spite his definite objections.
For those who cling to the idea that
the holy spirit so often referred to in
the Bible was a vague, nebulous non-
entity, an impersonal power, I com-
mend dispassionate consideration of
the following texts:
Acts xiii. 2 and 3. " The holy ghost
said: 'Separate me Barnabas and
Saul for the work whereunto I have
called them. And when they had
fasted and prayed and laid their hands
upon them, they sent them away.' "
The holy ghost always spoke in the
vernacular; clear, purely human lan-
guage. In this case the hands were
used to impart power, but when Jesus
materialized, breath was used for the
same purpose. Those who have used
the breath in magnetic treatments will
understand why. (See John xx. 22.)
Could one have a clearer indication
of trance speaking than the following:
"It is not ye that speak, but the
holy spirit" (Mark xiii. 11).
"For a holy spirit shall teach you
in that same hour what ye ought to
say" (Luke xii. 12).
The more correct translation of the
particles "a" and "the " would often
make a most significant difference to
these texts.
"Having received from the Father
the promise of the holy spirit, he hath
poured forth that which ye see and
hear" (Acts ii. 33).
Nothing vague or nebulous about
that. What the people around saw and
heard was simple Galileans under
spirit control speaking in foreign lan-
guages it was impossible for them to
have learned. The following is equally
definite :
"The holy spirit whom God hath
given to them that obey Him " (Acts
v. 32).
Perhaps the clearest text illustrating
the Spiritualist standpoint is John xiv.
26: "But the comforter, even the holy
spirit whom the Father will send in
my name, he shall teach you all things,
and bring to your remembrance all
that I said to you."
The "holy" spirit is therefore a
person, one who talks in understand-
able human language, and not a mys-
terious portion of God Himself.
LAYING ON OF HANDS
The "imposition of hands," con-
tinually referred to throughout the
New Testament, formed an essential
link in assisting spirits to take firm
control. It is now systematized and
termed " magnetization."
This is simply a revival of ordinary
mesmeric passes without proceeding to
the induction of sleep or hallucinatory
stages. Its purpose is to induce pas-
sivity and strengthen the link between
the medium and spirit operators.
Healers with a superabundant
vitality are undoubtedly the best
people for this work. If at the same
time they are themselves controlled by
a spirit the result is more effective.
Both magnetizer and aspirant must
be clean both in body and mind, or
spirit control will be induced that is
not of the highest type.
Mesmerists have thus, all uncon-
sciously, laid lines for rehabilitating
the miracles of the New Testament.
In its highest forms, magnetization re-
BIBLICAL PARALLELS
produces the effects of "baptism by
the holy spirit," of apostolic times.
The principal danger to guard
against is unconscious mesmeric con-
trol by the magnetizer of the develop-
ing medium. This would have the
dtal effect of preventing control by
spirit people, and rendering the sensi-
tive responsive to the operator's per-
sonal suggestions, thoughts and feel-
ings, which a medium may mistake for
his own or attribute to spirit people.
Misunderstanding thereby arises,
which is avoided by those who are not
magnetized. When the subject passes
under the obvious control of a spirit,
this contingency is avoided.
Easily hypnotized people are rarely
reliable as mediums because they
readily express ideas from the opera-
tor or audience, and pass them off as
spirit messages.
Another difficulty arises from the
sense of comfort and exaltation
aroused by magnetic treatment, which
sometimes causes sensitives to make
unwise requests to continue magnetiz-
ing in order to prolong their ecstasy.
This wilfully places them en rapport
with their magnetizer, to the definite
exclusion of higher intelligences.
The first passes used for the purpose
of development are the "clearing"
passes described in our book on
" Psychic Healing." These neither in-
duce sleep nor passivity, but remove
stagnation from the nerve centres.
INDUCING TRANCE
Saturation passes over the head and
chest then follow to induce passivity.
About five minutes is sufficient in most
cases. This should be reduced at each
sitting, and stopped immediately any
symptoms of control or clairvoyance
make their appearance.
The only real difference between
control by a "holy" spirit and obses-
sion by an undeveloped one lays in the
effect upon the medium.
It is for you to decide which type
shall control you. Aspirations will do
much, but the application of your
aspirations by actual practice will
carry you a great deal further.
All your spiritual associates express
qualities of your own mind. If your
motives are wholly selfish or impure,
the law of like attracting like men-
talities will hold good.
Do not play with fire. It warms
and cheers. It gladdens all hearts
when wisely used. But it can burn
also.
God's laws never change. Holy
motives attract "holy" spirits. Make
your choice.
10
METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT
CONTRARY to popular belief, it is
not true that spirit people have
our physical bodies, houses, and
other objects under their continual
observation. On the contrary, it is rare
for spirits to see that which is objective
to our sight.
Except on very rare occasions, it is
only by concentrating on spirit planes
that clairvoyants can see into that
realm. The law is simply reversed
when one loses the physical body.
In the vast majority of cases it is
untrue to say that spirits watch all
our actions and manipulate our brains.
This needs a stage of development far
is advance of most controlling spirits'
power.
Trance mediumship provides spirit
people with a means of once more con-
tacting material planes. They then see
through the eyes and hear through the
ears of the sensitive.
Under other conditions, they sense
human beings rather as spiritual quali-
ties than physical bodies. It is via the
psychic organism that control of the
physical is obtained.
UNCONSCIOUS TELEPATHY
Experience proves that the vast
majority of spirits drift quite uncon-
sciously into our mental atmosphere
and telepathically become a part of
our waking consciousness without
either spirit or mortal being aware of
the fact. Intensify this condition into
conscious manipulation by spirit
people, and you understand what is
meant when Spiritualists talk of trance
mediumship.
In spirit life, spirits may walk, run
or play in fields and cities as objec-
tive to their sight and senses as earth
life is to us, but in a second, without
using visible means of transit, a friend
will appear at their side, and dis-
appear with the same lack of objective
means to the end, immediately their
purpose is accomplished.
This constitutes a tremendous dif-
ference between the material and
spirit world.
On earth, only the people we call
mediums or clairvoyants understand
these phases of existence. To produce
this sensitiveness two factors are
essential.
First, the physical body must be
adaptable to manipulation by discar-
nate entities, and, secondly, the mind
and senses of the recipient must be
responsive as well as attractive to those
who desire to communicate.
Development means that practice
enables spirits to function through the
medium's senses, and thus relate them-
selves to earth life again. Conscious
co-operation, with set times of meet-
ing are essential to methodical spirit
communion or mediumship.
For the purposes of classification,
methods of development are placed
roughly under two heads-" positive"
and " passive.
"
LOSING CONSCIOUSNESS
Schools of thought which adopt the
"positive" method often object to loss
of consciousness on the ground that it
is never advisable, lest it rob us of
personal initiative. The reply is, that
long experience proves the assumption
to be utterly unwarrantable, and that
ordinary common sense is a sufficient
safeguard.
Others deny spirit co-operation and
affirm that sensitives galvanize ele-
mental forces into momentary life.
Again we retort that the assumption
has no foundation in fact, and that ex-
perience utterly disproves it. Greater
intellectual power, and not less, is the
almost invariable accompaniment of
the trance state. The theory was
based on Mme.Blavatsky's vain effort
to "smash Spiritualism."
The psychical research theory is that
during entrancement, nothing more is
given off than resides within the normal
capacity of the medium, that no evi-
dence of discarnate action is presented,
METHODS OP DEVELOPMENT
and, alternatively, that even though
a medium may telepathically "tap"
other sources of mental supply, no-
thing can be given that has any
value owing to subconscious action.
This we shall presently discuss in
all its bearings. A more rational
theory traces entrancement and all
psychic phenomena to an extensibility
of the physical senses, i.e., we can only
manifest psychic powers while pos-
sessing a human body.
The Spiritualist admits "extensi-
bility of consciousness " as an adequate
explanation for some forms of psychic
expression, but contends that it also
proves the existence of a spiritual or
psychic organism permeating the
physical, which persists after the death
of the body.
TRANCE EXCLUDED
No mere adjustment or changes in
the brain explain consciousness. If ex-
tensibility is a fact, then it implies the
possession of a mechanism adapted to
such extension.
The actual meaning of the word
"positive " when used in this connec-
tion is, that while remaining fully con-
scious and alert, inherent psychic
powers are unfolded. The uncon-
sciousness of trance is thus excluded.
It is best defined as "a conscious
sensing of psychic relationships."
The path is long and tedious. One
has to travel a road beset with snags,
without effective guidance and uncer-
tain whether we are developing hal-
lucinations or clairvoyance.
This is the main objection to Theo-
sophic, Rosicrucian and occult methods
in general. Owing to the training,
these lay definite bases for self-
deception. The hypnotist trains his
subjects in precisely the same way.
When minds are filled with Eastern
imagery and stories of spooks, shells,
elemental and various sub-human and
non-human powers, they require very
little encouragement to "discover"
exactly what they are taught to
expect. These " discoveries " pre-
sently take shape and form, and thus
have arisen voluminous descriptions of
the spiritual universe which obtain
little or no corroboration from spirit*
people or clairvoyants developed with-
out this misleading bias.
Mentality is said to be "positive"
while definitely and actively engaged
in any given direction. Thus the
executant of any piece of work must be
"positive" or he cannot concentrate
successfully.
Passivity, on the contrary, means
an unresisting receptivity. Experience,
however, proves that it can be im-
mediately transformed into " positive"
resistance on demand. It is thus ap-
parent that though a medium adopts a
"
passive" or receptive attitude in
order to permit psychic development,
he is by no means incapable of resist-
ing any objectionable ideas or actions
he deems undesirable.
SELECTING IMPRESSIONS
We must not therefore misunder-
stand the peculiar meaning attached to
the word "passive." It is your own
subconscious interference that has to
be subordinated or " passified."
Hence, there are stages in passive de-
velopment which would be better
defined as " well regulated activity."
It is by no means mental laziness
or stupor. You actually become
" selective'" and distinguish your own
creations from extraneous thought.
Consciousness is active, though ap-
parently quiescent.
We do not realize the earth's
velocity while we travel with it, but if
we could step off and watch its revolu-
tions, we should immediately be aware
of its motion. It is the same with
thought.
Telepathic impacts blend with our
normal expression unnoticed. If we
learn how to check the inrush, we can
distinguish between our own thinking
and ideas impressed upon us, a most
difficult task.
Hence, concentration forms part of
your "passivity " though it involves
an apparent contradiction in terms.
In " passive " development the sitter
prayerfully awaits the help of spirit
friends and leaves his unfoldment to
12 METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT
their manipulations. The objection to
this method is that, having no control
over results, we can never tell exactly
what will happen.
Spiritualists say this is preferable,
because the medium, having so little
influence upon the manifestations, can-
not colour them to the same extent as
the "trained" psychic.
Positive and passive mental states
interblend. No sharp dividing line can
be drawn, and students whose fears
cause them to refuse spirit aid often
awake to the discovery later on that
their every step has been assisted by
invisible helpers.
Conscious co-operation is therefore
deemed the wisest method. Both posi-
tive and passive methods, if employed
exclusively, have disadvantages, and
therefore a judicious blending of both
mental attitudes is recommended.
This meets with approval from wise
minds on both sides of the veil, who
constantly emphasize the need for
practising self-control before submit-
ting to spirit control. You do not
become a mere tool, but a conscious
co-operator instead.
Unfortunately, many are so im-
patient that they fail to understand
the need for studying their subject
before "rushing in where angels fear
to tread."
Mediums are born rather than de-
veloped, and finding results come so
easily, many are foolish enough to
think there is nothing to learn. Ex-
hortations and warnings are ignored.
ALL KINDS OF PSYCHICS
Hence, we find all types of humanity
.practising as mediums-saints, sages,
rogues and fools, a strange medley, to
which is added much unconscious self-
deception that prohibits implicit
reliance upon any.
From this summary, it is obvious
that-mediums are not a class set apart
by reason of their saintliness, and that
psychic powers are the heritage of all
Mankind. They manifest in accord-
ance with obscure laws we are
gradually learning to understand.
Trance mediumship actually ranges
from the horrible voodooism of primi-
tive Man to the marvellous manifesta-
tions of the saints and founders of the
religious systems of the world.
Hence I plead with all to develop
"quality" by first visualizing high
ideals, and thereafter regarding their
"gifts" as sacred possessions for
which they must render an inevitable
account.
Apparent entrancement with partial
or complete unconsciousness may be
induced by widely differing causes,
causes which completely and obviously
set aside the postulate of spirit
control.
Sensitives are therefore warned
.against believing that mere uncons-
ciousness is of itself proof of spirit
control.
To the onlooker, there is but little
difference between catalepsy produced
by hypnotism, spirit control, disease
or drugs. Materialism refuses to re-
cognize spirit control and would
classify it under one of the other heads.
On the other hand, Spiritualists
ignorant of effects produced by
hypnotism, disease or drugs, could
easily mistake one for the other.
I take this opportunity to warn
sensitives not to submit to hypnotic
treatment save for curative purposes.
The initial training and general hal-
lucinatory effects induced are liable to
recur at any time and seriously militate
against the development of genuine
mediumship.
Magnetic treatment is different. No
hallucinations are created.
HYPNOSIS AND CONTROL
Spiritualists often explain spirit
control as hypnotism by an unseen
operator, and hypnotic effects as being
produced by the dominant will of the
operator.
Sometimes it is a true statement,
but many hypnotic effects are induced
where it is perfectly obvious that it is
only the mentality of the subject act-
ing. This is true even though the
manifestations may be somewhat in
advance of the sensitive's normal
output.
METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT 13
The assumption arises from an idea
that spirits exercise overwhelming will
power, or play upon the brain of a
sensitive as mechanically as a player
moves the keys of a piano.
In mental phenomena, this is rarely
true; traces of the medium's in-
dividuality permeate the whole. This
is clearly seen in mediums like George
Fox, the founder of Quakerism, and
Swedenborg.
Both proved spirit guidance, yet
neither rises far above the subcon-
scious element provided by early
training and beliefs.
In the Rev. G. Vale Owen's scripts,
it forms an interesting study to note
the polite avoidance of direct reply by
his spirit friends to specific questions
where they knew the natural bias in his
mind, and in some of his writings the
bias is clearly seen.
We grow but slowly, and a bald
statement of facts would possibly
result in failure to get the essential
message across. At times it is obvious
that controls are themselves controlled
and forced to express their message in
consonance with the desires of their
amanuensis. Subconsciously, this re-
sistance is always going on.
Auto-suggestion is the principal
bugbear of developing mediums.
Yet there are means of distinguishing
the difference, indescribable without
personal experience, which the follow-
ing incident will prove.
SCEPTICS AT A SEANCE
About thirty years ago, we used to
go into Battersea Park and hold open-
air meetings. This would be followed
by an invitation to attend our services.
In course of time a definite opposi-
tion developed. We were challenged
to permit these park opponents to sit
with us in our circles. We accepted
the challenge but stipulated they
should bring their wives or sisters with
them in order that their own definite
antagonism should not nullify results.
Quite unexpectedly, a big crowd
attended one evening, composed of the
park opposition. Each fulfilled the
condition of bringing a friend.
After the usual services, a circle was
formed, with about a hundred members
staying behind in anticipation of
trouble. These formed an outer ring.
The " enemy," with their friends, I
placed in a group, forming them into
a separate but complete circle by
themselves on the inside. Soon the
usual manifestations were taking place
among our members.
Prayer, trance speaking, clairvoy-
ance and healing alternated. The
"inner" circle was very subdued at
our apparently ignoring their presence.
Presently one of the women with the
" enemy " began to scream hysterically.
I at once recognized the symptoms,
broke up the condition, and asked her
who had been hypnotizing her. She
denied ever acting as a subject. Some-
what mystified, I returned to my seat.
Presently the same lady recommenced
shouting.
MESMERISM ADMITTED
My wife immediately attended to
her, and, not knowing what I had pre-
viously said, asked who had been
mesmerizing her. Again came the
denial.
After the meeting we taxed her with
the fact, and one of her own friends
admitted that he had hypnotized her.
It transpired, later, that the girl
merely repudiated our statements for
fear of incurring her friend's dislike.
But it was so obvious to her party
that we could distinguish between
hypnotism and spirit control that we
afterwards became firm friends, their
principal and specific charge against
us being that we deliberately hypno-
tized our mediums and that spirit
control was all moonshine.
Under hypnotism a residue of
phenomena may be accounted for by
the operation of external mentalities,
but hypnotists quickly discover that in
the majority of cases they merely set
free latent faculties.
The operator does not create; he
merely stimulates. This is duplicated
14 METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT
in many forms of mental mediumship.
Inspiration is an excellent example in
which one's own ideas are aroused and
expanded to an extraordinary degree.
Hypnotists assume that if a medium
believes spirit control will produce
certain effects, he unconsciously induces
all that he attributes to external
mentalities. Only clear, unmistakable
evidence of discarnate action can dis-
prove that theory. This evidence is
continuously and definitely given by
phenomenal results and knowledge it
is impossible for the medium to
acquire.
I personally experimented with a
view to understanding hypnotism. I
soon discovered that no matter how
hard I willed to the contrary, the sub-
ject's predilections, training and ex-
pectations beat me every time.
It was not what I willed that pro-
duced the effects, but what the subject
thought I wanted that influenced his
speech and actions.
It is extraordinary how few people
realize the immense effect which the
mind exercises, often quite uncon-
sciously, upon the body. Still fewer
appreciate how bodily conditions
affect the mind, nor how mind reacts
and induces states of consciousness
over which we have no apparent
control.
ALL RELATED
Yet in sleep, hypnotism, somnambul-
ism and cognate states, we are con-
tinually confronted with them. Nor do
some people appear to grasp the fact
that opponents, by following different
methods of research, may discover
laws which escape the notice of other
types of investigators.
All branches of psychology are
related, and students of mediumship
must review all theories-if based on
evidence-in order to incorporate
truer explanations of phenomena that
opponents may find.
All perception of Truth is relative;
it varies in accordance with our train-
ing and consequent prejudices. No one
school of thought possesses a mono-
poly, and all mental manifestations or
aberrations must form part of Spirit-
ualistic studies if we are to under-
stand how consciousness functions or
thought is elaborated, received or
projected.
The degree in which our education
and experiences differ will constitute
the measure of our different view-
points in accepting or rejecting the
Spiritualist hypothesis. This is
peculiarly noticeable among hypnotists
ignorant of psychical research and
strongly biased by their materialism.
MIND AND BRAIN
To them, mind in all its manifesta-
tions is dependent upon the physical
brain. The idea that the ego has a
wider range of perception than the five
senses is to them absurdly impossible.
Hence their lofty refusal for a long
time even to glance at the mountain
of evidence Spiritualism accumulated.
This state of things is rapidly pass-
ing away, but it brings in its train
further dangers in the direction of
restricting our researches to medical
men who use mediums as "hyp-
notic " subjects, " suggesting" en-
tirely false hypotheses, and carefully
hedging us around with legal and
medical prohibitions lest we infringe
their vested interests.
Some doctors would make hypnotism
and all related phenomena a penal
offence-unless the practitioner is a
medical man. To them, all mediums
are but "clinical" material to be
"trained" or cut and carved as in-
teresting subjects for vivisection.
They grab or cut ectoplasm for
analytical dissection. They ignore the
long years of the medium's practical
experience, and particularly the men-
talities behind the scenes who create
the very phenomena they now pro-
fess themselves desirous of examin-
ing. The spirit hypothesis to them is
"superstition."
Opponents' studies will form a use-
ful compendium to our own when
shorn of their materialism. They may
eventually teach us how physical
obstacles hinder the fuller develop-
ment of consciousness, and why both
METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT 15
physical and mental reactions prevent
clear reception of the spirit message.
At present they classify all the
phenomena of the seance-room under
the head of "subconscious" activity.
The " subconscious" theory is easily
the most formidable objection we have
to meet, because it partly embraces
explanations all Spiritualists accept.
In the first place, all mental pheno-
mena are related to it.
Secondly, subconsciousness is the
reservoir from or through which all
forms of active consciousness must
pass. In self-defence we must limit
"our friend, the enemy," in the use he
makes of the prefix "sub."
If consciousness is clearly trans-
cended, or manifests intelligence
higher than the normal, it is not
"sub" but " super" consciousness;
i.e., superior to the usual attributes of
the brain.
If, in addition, it exhibits a men-
tality differing in many ways from
that of the medium, and claims to be
a spirit entity who proves his case by
exhibiting phenomena baffling our
scientists or detailing matters known
only to the deceased person, we must
refuse to accept either "sub" or
" super " as an adequate explanation.
Of this order are many trance ad-
dresses, premonitions, talking in
foreign languages, physical phenomena
and materialization.
WHAT IS SUBCONSCIOUS ?
We need, therefore, clearly to dis-
criminate between " subconsciousness"
and its alternatives. The word "sub "
is a Latin prefix signifying "under"
or " less than." It is extensively used
to express a subordinate degree or im-
perfect state.
In this sense Nuttall's Dictionary
defines the word as "hardly" con-
scious. From this simple definition, it
is now being strained to cover the vast
field of trance mediumship and
materializations, together with the wide
range of phenomena associated with
manias, hallucinations, hypnotism,
dreams and many other forms of
mental manifestation.
It is, therefore, essential to discover
what is "sub " or "less than" con-
sciousness, or superior and abnormal,
but which during manifestation
simulates waking consciousness. In
general practice it will be found useful
to translate subconsciousness as
"suppressed" consciousness.
It really consists of memory, plus a
great collection of ideas consciously
and unconsciously absorbed. It is
actually the essential part of us that
persists after the change of death.
When waking consciousness calls on
subconsciousness to function, they
merely change places. .
In hypnotism or disease, subcon-
sciousness operates without volition
exercising conscious control, but that
is all. We thus discover its limita-
tions.
It is also clear that only the ideas we
have absorbed can proceed from us. If,
therefore, knowledge emanates from a
medium that he could not have ac-
quired, only two postulates are per-
missible.
Either the consciousness can trans-
cend the limitations of the body and
collect additional information impos-
sible for the brain to have received, or
some intelligence exercising a power
akin to hypnotism telepathically pro-
duces the result.
TELEPATHY ON OUR SIDE
That is the Spiritualist affirmation.
Even when telepathy is claimed as an
explanation, it must be obvious that
thought transference requires two
operators, one to project and one to
receive the thought.
It, therefore, in no way discredits
the spirit hypothesis, which does but
plead for the recognition of telepathy
on more planes of consciousness than
materialism is willing to admit.
The psychoanalyst endows sub-
consciousness with a personality ever
seeking to over-ride the conscious self,
which symbolizes in dreams ideas
otherwise suppressed. It thus be-
comes the interpreter of unspoken
thought.
16 METHODS OF DEVELOPMENT
The hypnotist discovers in it an ego
in many ways superior to the normal
man. It is thus a higher and better
self.
He inhibits undesirable thoughts,
and, by appealing directly to that
inner self, cures dipsomania and other
moral lapses. He implants the cura-
tive suggestion on the subconscious
mind which presently manifests on the
outer plane.
It is because this is exactly how
spirit people inspire their subjects that
I want you seriously to consider the
true relationship of hypnotism and
mesmerism to mediumship.
17
CLASSIFYING STATES OF
CONSCIOUSNESS
NE of the first men to practise
hypnotism in this country was
James Braid. His method con-
sists of gazing at a fixed point. In
many subjects a state of "suggesti-
bility" ensues, in which they blindly
accept the slightest suggestion made.
It was found by later experiments
that even the presence of an operator
is not essential, but that the belief of
the subject is the predisposing factor.
Merely seeing others hypnotized is
sufficient to induce hypnosis among
onlookers. The recollection of an
earlier hypnosis sometimes reproduces
the state without any further sugges-
tion from the operator. By what is
called post-hypnotic suggestion, a per-
fectly normal man will suddenly pass
into the hypnotic state during his
workaday life.
POST-HYPNOTIC SUGGESTIONS
During a preliminary hypnosis, the
subject is told that at a certain time
he will perform a specific action.
They often make very foolish excuses
to account for the act, but perform it
against their better judgment.
Dr. Luys proved that a whole group
could be hypnotised by intently gazing
at a revolving mirror. Similar effects
were obtained by listening to the tick-
ing of a clock. Innumerable means
have been invented that produce simi-
lar results.
The conclusion arrived at by hypno-
tists is that the method by which the
condition is induced is a negligible fac-
tor, and that what subjects " expect"
decides the results.
No matter how induced, the effects
are indisputable. The subject de-
velops by pantomimic action, or by
speech or writing, all the natural
sequences of the suggestions which
arise in his mind.
Tell him he is a dog, he will run
about on all fours and bark. Suggest
that he is a lord, and he will assume
the airs he thinks peculiar to that
station. If he believes he is any
well-known personage, he will some-
times give a really startling imper-
sonation of the character.
Say that his arm or leg is para-
lysed, and he promptly assumes all the
symptoms of paralysis. That he is
drowning, and he will throw himself
on the floor, and choke and splutter,
and act generally as if struggling in
the water.
Any conceivable death scene can be
reproduced in the same way. Artists
secure more transcendental expressions
by hypnotizing their models. Almost
every phase of mental mediumship has
been similarly duplicated.
The reading, if not the actual ex-
perience of medical men, has
familiarized them with these states of
consciousness, so that when we narrate
the sometimes trivial occurrences of
the seance room, they immediately con-
clude it is all auto-suggestion, or self-
hypnotization.
THEY "EXPLAIN" IT AWAY
They dismiss our exceptional illus-
trations as due to mal-observation or
fraud. Their social position carries
weight in the world, and the masses
follow the bell-wether blindly.
I must, therefore, impress upon
sensitives the difference between evi-
dence for discarnate operators and the
possible action of one's own mind.
Only information which transcends
the limitations of the five senses,
foreign languages, or other knowledge
the medium could not normally pos-
sess may be put forward as evidence
for discarnate intelligences.
It does not necessarily follow that
manifestations are not due to the
operation of an external mind, but
they cease to be evidence or proof of
that fact. The crux of the position
lies in the nature of the manifestation.
Does it signify an extension of the five
C
18 CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
senses, or is it more feasible that the
information could only be derived
from discarnate mentalities
It is the most difficult problem
Spiritualists have to grapple with;
but it must be bravely faced. Mere
assertions are not proof. Obviously
if there is no extension of the percep-
tions, neither medium nor hypnotic
subject can express more than they
have absorbed.
If extension is proven, then you
prove that mentality functions outside
or beyond the material mechanism--a
tremendous advance. If more than
this is accomplished, the case for the
spirit world is proven.
Sensitives alone can discover and
define the lines of demarcation-if any
-- between sub, super, and normal con-
sciousness, and those manifestations
which lie beyond the range of all
three, and which may, therefore, be
quite properly attributed to discarnate
mentalities.
Don't worry overmuch about these
details in the early days of your de-
velopment. Merely note the detail,
or your fear will intrude itself con-
tinuously, and spoil otherwise genuine
tests. Always reserve the acid test of
critical analysis until after the seance.
Most modern books on hypnotism
are avowedly materialistic. Hypo-
theses are strained to breaking point,
merely to repudiate mesmeric theories.
Mesmerists were dubbed rogues and
charlatans because they recognized
attributes of the soul in addition to
normal senses.
MESMERISM'S AID TO PSYCHICS
It is true that superstitions peculiar
to their day and generation were
sometimes associated with mesmerism,
but these in no way invalidate their
testimony on actual statements of
fact.
Under mesmerism, clairvoyance and
psychic phenomena were fairly fre-
quent. Under hypnotism they prac-
tically ceased, except where the de-
spised "passes" were used, or when
a born seer submitted to experimenta-
tion. .
The broad distinction between
hypnotism and mesmerism is that
hypnotists consistently aim at creat-
ing and directing hallucinations,
whereas the mesmerist frequently
enhanced psychic powers by enabling
the ego to manifest with greater
freedom.
Both schools induced somewhat
analogous phases, the hypnotists claim-
ing that "suggestion " accounts for
all the phenomena, while mesmerists
asserted that a universal fluid or
animal magnetism formed the basis or
link whereby they established control
over their subjects.
Spiritualists are able to see truth
in both schools of thought, because the
phenomena of the seance room indis-
putably re-establishes the reality of
the aura, and certain stages of spirit
control indicate the part suggestibility
must necessarily play.
What was called a universal fluid
by Mesmer was merely another name
for what is now called aura when in-
visible, and psychoplasm when solidi-
fied.
Spiritualists reject the hypnotists'
theory for most of the phenomena of
the seance room, because it would be
absurd to credit uneducated mediums
with the startling information that
pours through entranced lips.
The intelligences using them claim
to be discarnate beings who once
lived upon the earth, and prove it by
speaking their native language, nar-
rating contemporary history with
homely detail, and dealing with facts
that research verifies.
IGNORANT SCIENTISTS
Through entranced lips came in-
structions for seance work. Then fol-
lowed materialization and a host of
bewildering phenomena clearly indi-
cating knowledge of powers and
forces of which our greatest scientists
were absolutely ignorant.
The inference must be pressed to its
logical conclusion. Physical pheno-
mena are not merely phenomenal in-
cidents. They are evidence of men-
tality superior to that of the medium.
CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS 19
Remembering that "sub" means
"less than," in what department of
the subconscious are we to discover
knowledge one has no means of col-
lecting ? Nothing can come out from
the wells of memory, save that which
we have garnered.
This is the theory of materialists
themselves, and if they admit that the
mind has access to fields of knowledge
in which the brain plays no part, they
destroy materialism. All their efforts
to prove that psychic phenomena are
a mere extension of physical powers,
land them on the horns of a dilemma
every time.
They must either admit the exist-
ence of the aura as a mind field, or
adopt the spirit hypothesis.
By no possible law of auto-sugges-
tion could Cora Tappan, a child
eleven years old, dig out from her
inner consciousness knowledge- that
enabled her to wield a surgeon's knife
successfully, speak four definitely
proven foreign languages, and deliver
hundreds of scientific and philosophic
addresses without a moment's pre-
paration.
These examples can be multiplied
by the thousand. Neither race nor
religion makes any difference. Truly,
"God is no respecter of persons."
That is our case.
FACT v. THEORY
The spirit people's explanations of
the phenomena are far more satisfac-
tory than theories framed apparently
for no other purpose than to dis-
credit any testimony that proves dis-
carnate action.
All experienced mediums are cuite
sure they are continually subjected to
magnetizing by means of spirit hands
making passes over them, identical with
what were common among mesmerists.
It is equally clear that mediums are
responsive to thought processes akin
to telepathy, in which the clear re-
ception of thought is obtained with-
out any obvious means to the end.
Spiritualists can therefore confirm
both mesmeric and hypnotic theories
as to the induction of trance, and
this will eventually do much to
eradicate the bone of contention be-
tween these opposing schools of
thought.
How are we to account for the drivel
which occasionally masquerades as
spirit control? It is here that our
opponents' theories help us.
It explains the infinitesimal fraction
that occasionally mystifies us. Imper-
sonation by intruding spirits does not
explain it-the talking lacks individu-
ality. It is simply auto-suggestion.
Every investigator quickly decides
that a liberal discount must be
allowed for the interblending of the
medium's own mind with the spirit
message. The amount of this discount
is always a vexed problem because it
varies with every manifestation.
Many reputed mediums obtain
nothing of a distinctly evidential
nature, but clairvoyants prove they
are assisted by spirit people, because
the same guide will be described by
different mediums over and over again.
Others are able to prove the identity
of their controls almost at will.
ANALYSIS DEFIED
The majority, however, present a
compound of mentalities so inextric-
ably blended that they defy analysis.
Where the ideas are uplifting, it is
immaterial, from the Spiritualist
standpoint, as to whether they are due
to spirit agency or not.
But it is an entirely different matter
if we claim to be controlled by specific
spirits. We now need decisive evi-
dence of a very convincing character
before accepting assertions.
This aspect must be bravely faced
in order to " warn off" masqueraders
who think they have but to shut their,
eyes and pretend to be spirit con-
trolled, to be taken at their own valua-
tion. Experience proves that this is
the class who sit in judgment upon all
other mediums, and while teaching
charity, spread, petty jealousies and
stupid misrepresentation of the actual
facts of mediumship.
Their awakening is usually abrupt
and painful, because unkind critics do
20 CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
not mince matters. Analysis is there-
fore essential; but it must be tact-
fully accomplished, or we may destroy
the beginning of the very faculty we
are desirous of examining.
We find this our greatest difficulty.
The slightest suggestion of conscious
or unconscious fraud is sufficient to
set back many sensitive souls at the
commencement of their development
and perhaps kill it for ever.
So I advise all investigators to pro-
ceed warily, and presently evidential
experiences will form a counteracting
barrier to the positive assertions of
well-meaning critics whose statements
sometimes assume the force of
hypnotic suggestions.
We must always remember that
sensitives are constitutionally liable to
suggestion. It is this very fact that
makes them mediumistic. Nor can we
always trace the origin of suggestions.
They may arise from subconsciousness,
from their audience, or even he aroused
through misunderstanding spirit action.
Their own critical examination of
the phenomena while in progress
effectually checks all spirit control. It
is for these reasons that complete un-
consciousness forms the best pre-
liminary to fuller development, but
not if the medium has been pre-
viously hypnotized.
TRAINED THOUGHTS
After this training, we can never
be sure that subconsciousness is not
reproducing itself by the association
of ideas. Even when developed by
spirit people, some of these factors
may arise incidentally; but in this
case the muddled mediumship is more
often due to unintentional telepathic
interference or blending of discarnate
operators.
The foregoing statements supply
reasons why uncritical folk develop
trance mediumship more easily than
the keenly intellectual. When the
activity of the brain cannot be stayed,
subconsciousness is continually inter-
fering and deep trance becomes im-
possible.
It is here that auto-suggestion be-
comes imperative if the medium desires
to prevent any admixture of his own
mentality with the message. There
are other stages also where it is desir-
able the medium should train his sub-
consciousness before slipping into
trance.states.
He does this exactly as we do every
time we go to sleep. We must de-
liberately refuse to think or we stay
awake.
The medium does the same, but with
another object in view. He can will
the exact moment he shall return and
repossess his waking consciousness, and
he can decide who shall or shall not
control him.
Auto-suggestion has therefore its
valuable side as well as its objection-
able phases.
The main difficulty is to guard
against subconscious interference
arising from early training, vanity or
prejudice. These most easily elude the
sensitive because they are part of the
normal expression. Lookers-on, who
take a more detached view, quickly
note similarities in the ideas and tem-
peraments of medium and control.
PROOF OF IDENTITY
But even here the most careful in-
vestigator may be deceived, because
the closer the control approximates to
the mental condition of the medium,
the more perfect will some manifesta-
tions become with correspondingly less
fatigue to the medium.
We must also remember that proof
of identity is not always possible by
speech alone. Fortunately, several
other factors play their part, and
spirit control is proven by the know-
ledge they exhibit and the effects pro-
duced rather than by isolated state-
ments.
Control cannot become effective
without specific knowledge on the
spirit side and mental and auric
affinity with the medium. Then comes
the main problem we are now dis-
cussing. The possible action of the
medium's own subconsciousness.
The simplest explanation of palp.
able self-deception is that of the
CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS 21
hypnotist. The difference between the
Spiritualist and his opponent is that
Spiritualists recognize but a very small
fraction of spirit control that may be
due to this subconscious element, but
the hypnotist, with possibly no ex-
perience at all of mediumship, classi-
fies all spirit control under this head.
We thus arrive at the conclusion that
some cases of reputed spirit control are
explainable on the hypothesis that
some sensitives attain a psychic state
wherein their normal powers are ex-
panded and exalted, and that this re-
mains true even though the medium
may be unconscious of what is said or
done. States of consciousness often
arise which are identical with phases
of hypnotism or auto-suggestion. But
this does not nullify the overwhelming
mass of evidence conclusively proving
discarnate action.
Inspiration and trance mediumship
are classified as follows :-
1. Inspiration. Normal powers
exalted and expanded with or with-
out apparent assistance from dis-
carnate individualities.
2. Conscious control arises when
the medium is conscious during the
delivery of an address or spirit
message, and is more or less aware
of the individuality of his mentor.
3. Unconscious Control, Stage
One. This is fairly common during
early development. The spirit or
medium, or both, are ignorant of
their effects upon each other.
SPIRIT MENTALITY
4. Unconscious Control, Stage
Two. The medium alone is uncon-
scious of what transpires. The men-
tality of the spirit clearly expresses
itself and the individuality of the
medium is completely changed.
5. Partial control is an obvious
blending of the ideas of the
medium with the mentality of the
controlling intelligence.
6. Subconscious Action. Lastly,
we must deal sympathetically with
the egotistic or ignorant poseur. He
is not a conscious fraud. Besides,
you may be wrong. Be just, but be
merciful. Telepathy affects all.
Thought transference intensified into
trance states presents many per-
plexing problems.
The lesson we learn from hypnotism
is that what is termed subconsciousness
or unconsciousness, really means sup-
pressed memory or 'suppressed con-
sciousness.
The ego is ever alert, though its
activities are temporarily suspended
or diverted. Its memory during
trance states is apparently defective,
or increased by suggestion, but as soon
as the embargo is lifted, the spirit
consciously contacts material relation-
ships once more.
The body may be rendered incap-
able of action, but reawakened mem-
ory proves that the soul never even
slept. All the thoughts and feelings
we have ever had, both expressed or
repressed, were stored away in the
wells of memory, and under proper
stimuli can be drawn upon and
expanded.
This clearly confirms spirit teaching
on the permanence of memory. The
psychic organism is subject to its own
peculiar laws of development, and
does not disintegrate like the physical.
The physical body and brain are
said to renew every particle of their
substance every few years. If this
is true, then memory-if it be a
purely physical attribute-would be
annihilated.
But the theory of complete physical
renewal is perfectly tenable if we re-
cognize the body as a mechanism, and
spiritual organism as a reservoir which
retains the results of life's experiences.
PATH OF LEAST RESISTANCE
Hypnotism also illustrates a method
by which spirit people reach us
through our subconsciousness. They
consistently affirm that it is easier to
use a medium's own words and
phrases than to thrust entirely new
ideas upon him.
Even in the deepest trance we
occasionally find the medium's words
are used, although the spirit indis-
putably proves its separate identity.
22 CLASSIFYING STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Nor is materialization and direct
voice phenomena entirely free from
the same defect, but here the law in
operation can be more easily traced.
One has but to reflect that when a
body or thorax is externalized, to all
intents and purposes they are but
extensions of the medium's body.
The elements along which the con-
sciousness of the discarnate intelli-
gence travels are drawn from or
passed through the medium's body. It
is the extension of the nerves along
auric channels that permits a spirit's
consciousness, equally with that of the
medium, to travel along them.
Occasionally they blend, and, if not
checked by the superior knowledge of
discarnate operators, the medium
would actually be able to express him-
self more easily through the extended
mechanism than they. Occasional
intermixing of the two minds cannot
therefore be avoided.
This causes materialism to credit
unconsciousness (expressed as sub-
consciousness) with the production of
the phenomena in its entirety, an
obvious absurdity.
The spirit enmeshed in borrowed
material inevitably finds his words or
ideas occasionally supplanted, because
the thoughts of both operators travel
over the same line of communication,
like twin messages over a radio circuit
or telegraph line.
CLASH OF MINDS.
Much of this clashing of mentalities
will be avoided when mechanism is
contrived-as it will be presently-to
dispense with auric particles drawn
from the medium, but up to now we
find the medium a necessary and in-
dispensable link.
The wonder of it is, not that we
find the message occasionally con-
taminated, but that we get such clear
unmistakable evidence as we do.
23
HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND
PRACTICE
HYPNOTISM proves that transi-
tional stages between conscious-
ness and unconsciousness are so
transient, that at times it is impossible
to distinguish between them. It is the
same with mediumship.
A request from the operator during
hypnosis to forget any specific con-
versation is sufficient to erase it com-
pletely from the subject's waking con-
sciousness.
A command to remember it gives it
an exaggerated place in the normal
consciousness, and thus manias are
cured. Analogous states in medium-
ship are frequent.
Mediums sometimes consciously co-
operate during addresses, but cannot
recall a word of their speech after-
wards. Meditation on the theme a
day or two later will enable them to
regain its substance.
It thus becomes part of their nor-
mal consciousness, and advances them
along the line of individual develop-
ment. All mediums, no matter whether
unconscious trance or otherwise, ought
to devote a'regular time to this form
of self-education, and not lag behind
audiences to their own confusion and
the degradation of the cause they
serve.
Psychics should aim at reaching the
plane of their inspirers, and not ex-
pect to be nursed like infants all their
lives. Only thus can we hope to
duplicate mediums like J. J. Morse,
E. W. Wallis, and the host of truly
inspired workers who laid the founda-
tions for Spiritualism.
CURES BY HYPNOTISM
The American School of Psychology
has taken the study of hypnotism one
stage further in its efforts to cure
mental aberrations. The patient,
under hypnosis, is trained to trace the
whole of life's history backwards.
Latent memories are unfolded in a
wonderful manner.
One method directs the gaze of the
subject into a crystal. He reads off
the pictures as they arise. In one
after another, he unfolds the story of
his life and the motives which in-
fluenced actions.
He is instructed to write automatic-
ally the meaning of every picture he
sees. They usually take symbolic
form, as in dreams, and his interpreta-
tion of them is invaluable to the
physician.
INTERPRETING SYMBOLS
It would be foolish to attribute
either the pictures he sees or his in-
terpretation of them to discarnate
spirit action, though exceptions often
occur. The evidence all points to
their origin in the mind of the
subject.
Nor are they due to the overwhelm-
Lmg influence of the operators, who
rarely know what will be revealed.
To survey this aspect fully from
opponents' standp6ints, read Milne
Bramwell's " Hypnotism " atid Dr.
Barker and Dr. Moreton Prince's
books.
One illustration must suffice :
" A woman suffered all her life from
an exaggerated fear of cats. She was
hypnotized, and an effort made to
trace the cause of the utterly un-
reasonable fear. Step by step she
was mentally directed backwards until
she reached early childhood.
" Questions then revealed the fact
that as an infant she had been bitten
by a cat. The childish terror of the
moment attained the power of a ' dom-
inant idea,' or mania, which continu-
ally reproduced itself in adult life,
though no memory of it remained in
her normal consciousness.
" Discovery of the cause enabled
counter-suggestions to be made which
wrought a cure."
This type of research is pregnant
with illustrations as to methods used
by spirit friends to impress us or de-
24 HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE
velop mediumship. Controls also
utilize subconsciousness to implant
ideas or eradicate them.
Materialism assumes that hypnotism
resuscitates lapsed functions of the
brain, but Spiritualists believe that
the spirit cures its aberrations by more
perfect control over its own
machinery.
In both hypnotism and mesmerism
we find the ego responsive to sug-
gestions, even though they conflict
with physical desires. In both schools
it is now an accepted axiom that sug-
gestions repugnant to the sensitive's
higher self are foredoomed failures.
A MEDIUM'S RESPONSIBILITY
The cure of dipsomania and other
moral lapses prove that the better side
of one's nature is readily approached
through the subconscious mind or
spirit self.
In mediumship it is the same. Re-
sponsibility cannot be shuffled on to
spirit controls. Subconsciously we
resist all suggestions of which we do
not approve.
Training and prejudice are the
dominant factors. This is clearly
traceable in automatic writing and
trance, though a higher moral tone
than the normal is invariably pre-
sented.
GUIDES NOT TO BLAME
Sensitives cannot therefore blame
spirit guides for their own moral
lapses.
The principal lesson derived from
hypnotism is that, by inhibiting all
sense perceptions save in the direction
specifically desired, the attributes of
one's own soul are freed and intensi-
fied to such an extent that the almost
miraculous is occasionally achieved.
This characteristic was more clearly
observable under mesmerism than
hypnotism, because ordered suggesti-
bility was not so frequently induced.
We thus arrive at the conclusion
that, though states of consciousness
analogous to hypnotism are sometimes
reproduced during mediumship, the
hypnotic subject's experiences are, in
the main, confirmatory of spirit teach-
ing on the nature of the soul and its
attributes.
So that, where hypnotists' theories
are sound, Spiritualists have nothing
to retract. But they are far from
satisfactory in many ways. The
supercilious attitude, the hallmark of
obstinate ignorance, places them in the
category of "things hidden from 'the
wise, but revealed to babes and
sucklings."
Hypnotists produce colourable imi-
tations of control by the simple pro-
cess of creating hallucinations, and
assume they are one and the same
thing. By the same illogical reason-
ing, there cannot be any real bank-
notes because forgers imitate them.
WHO IS THE BEST JUDGE ?
Hiypnotists claim that no external
mentalities ever find expression
through mediums, and that what
appears to be so is due to faulty
observation or downright fraud.
Emotionalism is presumed to render
Spiritualists incapable of correctly
appraising the phenomena which has
been their life's study. This insult to
the keen business men and scientists
who have been drawn into Spiritualism
would call for reprisals but for the
greater charity which remembers its
own egotism before succumbing to
overwhelming evidence.
Besides-when one comes to think
of it-we are really more flattered by
attracting these types of intellect, than
scientists whose publicity may possibly
be traced to moon-gazing or counting
the hairs on a fly's leg !
UNSCIENTIFIC SCIENCE
These occupations are as liable to
affect their mentalities as watching
spirit forms slowly build themselves
up before astonished eyes.
So we are unmoved when they deny
point blank that there are, or ever
were, mediums who speak foreign lan-
guages they never learned, or that
apports and materializations occur as
the direct result of teaching received
through illiterate lips.
HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE 25
When compelled to admit the facts,
the same class vociferously denies our
conclusions and propounds farcical
explanations.
FINDING NEW WORDS
The theory of subconscious activity
to explain the phenomena as a whole is
a palpable absurdity. When compelled
to admit materialization, they hope to
destroy the Spiritualist hypothesis by
calling it an "exteriorization of the
medium's personality," by which they
mean the unconscious operation of the
medium's own brain.
The absurdity becomes a screaming
farce when we carefully analyse the
theory. For eighty years mediums
have been maligned as fools or frauds.
We now awake to the startling dis-
covery that the poor fool of a medium
illustrates a higher step on the ladder
of. evolution.
In other words, he has so much
superfluous grey matter in his brain
that he can actually spare enough to
make up an additional brain, body,
and all its parts with independent voli-
tion of their own, quite equal to those
of our scientific critics.
And he does it all unconsciously, or
subconsciously. After that, the Spirit-
ualist hypothesis is necessary to enable
ordinary folk to retain their sanity.
It is partly because we have re-
discovered the auric link emphasized
by Mesmer, and denied by the hypno-
tists, that we turn more sympathetically
to the experiences of the former.
Mesmerists were called rogues and
charlatans merely because they dis-
covered marvels like introvision and
clairvoyance, and claimed to utilize a
universal fluid.
POWER OF THOUGHT
They did not know, then, that
thought does not merely build dream
pictures; it also modifies or dis-
integrates them entirely. The soul
lives within its own mental imagery.
Hypnotism was acclaimed as a
science for no better reason than that
it can apparently trace all its pheno-
mena to physical reactions; that is,
illusions are traceable to the brain of
the subject himself. It was the pro-
test of materialism against the Spirit-
ualism of mesmerism.
Materialism, in fighting Spiritual-
ism, uses its old anti-mesmerist argu-
ments all over again. Almost without
exception, spirit people claim to use an
invisible aura.
Clairvoyants often see them making
"passes " over their mediums to heal
or induce passivity. It is therefore
only a matter of time for us to prove
where the hypnotist is wrong and thus
give "honour where honour is due."
THE VITAL FORCE
Blank materialism refuses to recog-
nize psychic science, and the opposition
is partly due to the error of denying
Mesmer's theory of a vital force
emanating from human bodies. They
would have to burn half their books if
seance room effects are produced as we
affirm.
The shock is too great to be accepted
all at once, and so the majority are at
present posing like wise crows on a
fence. The suggestion behind their
attitude is, that they can explain it all,
but they won't.
Meantime, in England alone, five
hundred churches have been built on
the experiences of individuals who
have nothing to gain but the world's
condemnation by avowing their convic-
tions. From the lower walks of life
the truth has been pressed home be-
cause poor people had no biassed
theory to uphold nor ostracism to fear.
We were all sceptical at first, but
after exhausting every other possible
and impossible explanation, we believe
the bulk of the phenomena is explain-
able by only one theory that covers
all the facts.
It is that the spirit world is a real
world, and that its inhabitants are
making strenuous efforts to reach our
understanding. Mistakes are .sme-
times made because we do not realize
our . own inherent possibilities and
'existing powers.
Sometimes the mentalities of opera-
tor and subject blend and the medium
26 HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE
is charged with fraud or subcon-
sciously producing the phenomena, but
details of this kind do not remove the
intelligences producing the phenomena.
The cynicism and hypercriticism of
those who ignore the training of the
medium while learnedly photographing
the results of that training, proves the
truth of the adage, "what fools these
mortals be."
In considering trance mediumship,
we have always to remember that
the mind field utilized by control-
ling spirits, is not confined within the
auric sphere of the medium, but con-
tacts the mentalities of sitters through
the same channel. We thus get an
explanation of differences in the
quality of manifestations from time to
time.
Allan Kardec noted the fact that
frivolous mediums meeting with like-
minded sitters, rarely rose above fairly
well-defined grades of intelligence, but
when he was present, the information
received far transcended the capacities
of his mediums.
In like manner, Andrew Jackson
Davis formed an intellectual group of
sitters before it became possible for
him to write his most wonderful books.
WHEN THERE IS SYMPATHY
In a lesser degree, I have noticed
the ease with which I can reply to
questions on psychic matters where
the audience is intelligently sympa-
thetic, and the difference while
addressing obviously hostile audiences.
In the latter case, one has to rely
almost entirely upon memorized mat-
ter, but, with the former type of
audience, unsuspected variations of
quite ordinary arguments take their
place in a perfectly natural manner,
and one is only surprised that the par-
ticular line of reasoning never hap-
pened to strike us before.
Where trance states are used for
test messages this is more clearly evi-
deneed. Clearly evidential matter is
more rare than the majority of
Spiritualists suspect, but all inspira-
tional or partially controlled people
quickly discover the inner meaning of
the text: "Take no thought for what
ye shall say, for in that same hour
it will be given unto you."
BEFORE AN ADDRESS
In all cases, the best preparation is
meditation or actual sleep before the
address. Engrossing conversation or
reading immediately preceding a meet-
ing, unless it has a bearing on the
subject to be dealt with, is best
avoided.
That inspirational talking and
trance states are measurably in-
fluenced by spirit people is clear to
all clairvoyants who watch speakers
giving an address. Invariably, the
lineaments of the speaker disappear,
and are supplanted by those of an
entirely different person.
Many speakers appear to indraw
different types of inspirer from time
to time, but in most cases speakers
learn who their chief control is from
the continually repeated descriptions
received from members of the
audience quite ignorant of other
people's descriptions.
The Spirituahst is thus able to
translate in a very literal way such
texts as "I am in you and you are
in me." The process by which con-
sciousness is expanded is therein
clearly visualized.
It is from experiences such as these
that entirely new concepts of spiritual
spheres and spirit life and action are
developing.
Mediums, like Paul, continually
wonder whether they are "in the
spirit or not." They discover spirit
people surge about them at all times.
Human bodies are no impediment.
Spatial relations all acquire a new
interpretation.
Ministering spirits are found to be
in contact with their charges at all
times. What their actual powers are
can be only vaguely guessed at.
They claim to be only very little in
advance of Mankind, but it is clear
from their ability to forecast the
future, read the past, and in other
ways rise superior to all known
methods of reasoning that we must
HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE 27
credit them with greater power than
ourselves.
Of this I am sure: they can see and
do things incomprehensible to us, but
fail completely at times when we set
them what we personally conceive to
be a very simple test or act of
memory.
I attribute this to the complexity
of the processes involved in getting
their messages across to us. But,
given time and persistence on both
sides of the veil, they astonish us both
by their more acute memory and
knowledge of surrounding circum-
stances.
Thus, at a direct voice seance on the
anniversary of my marriage, I asked
my spirit wife if she remembered
what anniversary was very near. For
awhile she could not reply, but en-
gaged in conversation with another
friend present.
OVERCOMING DIFFICULTIES
Suddenly, and appropos of nothing
at all, the trumpet suddenly darted in
my direction and she ejaculated: "We
became one."
Near her birthday, I put the same
question. Again there was a tem-
porary loss of memory, but after a
time she put all her will into the effort
and said, "My advent on earth."
But the next test through the same
method failed completely, though in
another way it proved she was really
there. I habitually take something
personal to herself when attending
special meetings, but nobody except
myself is aware of the fact.
I asked her if she knew what I was
wearing belonging to her. She ques-
tioningly asked me if I meant her ring.
On this occasion I had left this at
home.
Next day, a sensitive whom my wife
often influences in a sleep state very
nearly akin to trance, told me that my
wife had been strongly impressing her
while I was at the meeting that I was
discussing a cross.
In many different ways by impres-
sion, picturization and discussion, she
gave her to understand that it was
important for me to be told about it.
She therefore took the earliest oppor-
tunity to ask me what it was all about.
The error was thus quickly set right.
I had designed a cross for a birthday
present and my wife habitually wore
it. It was this cross that I was wear-
ing at the seance that I had asked her
to look at and tell me what it was.
How spirits influence mediums was
illustrated by a mesmerist friend.
Through an open doorway, without the
subject's knowledge, he first threw his
hands outwards as if throwing some-
thing from his finger-tips towards the
subject seated on a chair with his back
towards the mesmerist. He im-
mediately complained of a pain shoot-
ing through his head.
A MESMERIC EXPERIMENT
The test was then made more diffi-
cult by the mesmerist mounting the
staircase and apparently through the
brick wall, but in the direction of the
subject, making the same pass. Once
again the subject complained of a
sharp, stabbing pain affecting his
head.
In my developing circle, clairvoyants
watch the preliminary efforts of spirit
people to collect power. The usual-
process appears to be the amalgama-
tion of the rays proceeding from each
sitter's hands.
These presently coalesce, giving rise
to very beautiful colour effects. The
amalgamation continues until an
almost physically visible quantity of
aura is piled up on the table.
Spirit aura, flowing from spirit
hands, is then directed upon the mass,
causing it to whirl and form a vortex.
It suddenly condenses and either moves
as a wave of power towards one of the
sensitives or takes a definite globular
shape and strikes her forehead.
In either case, if the sensitive does
not resist, the immediate result is un-
consciousness.
In watching this process, I find there
is a general tendency for each spirit
guide to seize as much power as he can
for the use of his own medium.
If one is more fully developed than
28 HYPNOTISM IN THEORY AND PRACTICE
the others, or of a more dominant tem-
perament, they absorb all available
power to the detriment of the re-
mainder.
The truly spiritual medium is
usually of a retiring disposition and
is therefore continually thrust into the
background by more forceful charac-
ters. I found the best result was
attained when three sitters, after the
usual opening exercises, deliberately
remained passive so that all the power
was concentrated on one sensitive. The
development during this period was
remarkable.
Removed to a larger circle where
there was a continual change of sitters,
the mediumship became spasmodic and
always left the medium feeling very
dissatisfied. But if!asked to state why,
she could not explain: the circle in
general being very harmonious.
Some circles adopt the method of
concentrating on one medium at a
time. This has advantages where there
are several budding mediums, but I
prefer the method of passivity with
only one medium acting at a time in
the circle, to avoid all conflict of
thought, forces. It has hitherto
yielded the best results.
29
ANALYSIS OF PSYCHIC
SENSATIONS
NE of the first lessons a discarnate
soul learns is that "As a man
thinketh, so is he."
He thinks of low companions, and
finds them around him. Of home, and,
lo! he is there. Of scenes of drunken-
ness and vice-home fades from his
sight, and dreamlike changes occur in
his surroundings.
Like a feather wafted in the wind,
his thought takes him where it will.
He thinks he is dreaming, and his
dream follows the line of his idealism.
His aspirations seem to be within his
grasp; the pathway leading thereto is
clearly visualized.
But the dream may easily become a
veritable nightmare as memory causes
him to contact the living realities of
the spirit world. It symbolizes his
secret thoughts. His sins of omission,
no less than those of commission, point
accusing fingers at him. He now
realizes their effects in other people's
lives. Shame and remorse overcome
his flippant excuses. He desires to
hide himself, and kindly darkness
enfolds him.
THOUGHT-THE CREATOR
It is but the imagery of his own
mind that meets him everywhere. But
there are strange exceptions. Fitful
glimpses of more stable conditions, in
which friends seem permanently to
abide, thrust themselves ever and anon
upon his dream states. Their appeal
finally creates sufficient enquiry to com-
pel him to understand the law of his
environment, and become stabilized.
He has now learned that positive
thought is the dynamic force that
moves his spirit body, and that his
own soul's quality is in some strange
way stamped upon his surroundings.
His surroundings obey the impulses
of his mind. His limitations are
partly due to ignorance of psychic
modes of motion and expression, and
partly to hampering elements carried
over from the earth life.
Grossness, either of thought or body,
enchains him to undesirable localities
so long as his mind is freighted with
its burden. But soon he becomes self-
poised and consciously utilizes the
forces that previously overwhelmed
him.
With stabilisation, his surroundings
are revolutionised, and he learns that
upward evolutionary progress con-
tinues by the application of " Righ4
thought, right speech, and right
action."
The grosser particles of his spirit-
ual body gradually become more and
more sublimated, until at last it is too
brilliant for earthly clairvoyants to
watch its further unfoldment.
For a perfect understanding of the
laws governing the transition of the
spirit from the poor old worn-out body
at death, I cannot do better than refer
you to Andrew Jackson Davis's
" Philosophy of Death." This beauti-
fully portrays the condensation of
elements forming the future tenement
of the spirit.
THE SILVER CORD
A nebulous haze was seen hovering
over a dying body, and this gradually
assumed the shape and form of the
frame it was leaving for ever. The
psychic organism was joined to the
physical by a silvery cord, which he
likens to the umbilical cord uniting a
newly born child to its mother.
Consciousness travelled all along
this cord until its severance, and was
then transferred entirely to the more
permanent vehicle of expression. Dis-
solution of the physical body speedily
followed. Many mediums have corro-
borated this testimony, though very few
appear to realise its far-reaching
implications.
As the psychic organism is evolved
from the physical, it necessarily par-
takes of its nature. It bears earthly
scars which react to memory, and thus
we take with us all our human emo-
31) ANALYSIS OF PSYCHIC SENSATIONS
tions, thoughts and feelings. It is the
natural consequence of evolution
through a human organism.
As soon as a spirit tries to com-
municate with those left behind, it dis-
covers its limitations, for although
sensory perceptions are expanded, they
cannot now act upon physical sub-
stances with the same facility as before
transition.
But they soon discover that they
have community of sensation with cer-
tain people, and none at all with
others.
They further find that those who pos-
sess this strange affinity with them
respond almost automatically to their
thought. They thus learn to under-
stand what we on our side term
mediumship.
My varied experience in spirit con-
trol convinces me that not only does
the mentality of the discarnate intel-
ligence affect the medium, but the
quality of his psychic body has also a
powerful and very important bearing
upon the sensations and impressions
registered by mediums.
A proper understanding of these
laws on both sides of the veil is essen-
tial to perfect co-operation in medium-
ship.
During trance states, spirit presences
are detected by their physical and
mental impressions on the sensitive.
From a stolid indifference, the medium
may become suddenly aspirational; or,
from a state of gravity, be seized with
a desire to laugh.
This obviously indicates the mood
of the spirit attempting to control, but
accompanying these mental states are
the purely physical sensations of being
hung, crushed, drowned, or some other
cause of transition.
TRANSFER OF SENSATIONS
At the same moment, a curious
change in personality is wrought,
which enables even sex to be indicated
to the medium. Sometimes the condi-
tions precedent to death may appear in
addition to, or in place of the actual
death scene.
The physical sensations have direct
relationship to the psychic body of the
spirit visitor, and are due to trans-
ference of sensation. The reactions are
far too automatic to be consciously
induced.
The usual explanation is that they
are more mental than physical, and
that on returning to earthly conditions,
association of ideas causes the spirit
to "take on" its earthly memories
with a corresponding reaction through
the body of the sensitive.
But granting this explanation to be
correct, we are compelled to discover
the semi-physical means to the end. It
is the infirmities of living flesh and
blood peculiar to earthly bodies that
are exhibited. If spirit bodies transmit
sensations, the actual basis or seat of
sensations must reside in the psychic
organism of the spirit visitor. The
auric forces of the medium merely
supply the link which connects them.
When properly connected, the men-
tal and physical attributes of the con-
trolling intelligence thus finds expres-
sion through the physical body of the
medium, which becomes the receiving
station for extraneous thought and
sensations. For the spirit to think
pain, means that the sensitive exhibits
pain, even though the resultant mem-
ory is as fleeting as a dream, and
dreamlike, may be forgotten on
awaking.
The sensory perceptions of both
parties blend until the body of the
medium becomes in effect the sole pos-
session and expression of the visitor.
For a while the clarity of the twain is
defective; but as soon as full conscious
possession is obtained, all physical
disabilities pass away, and only the
normal characteristics of the spirit
visitor remain in evidence.
It is rare to find full and complete
control established at the first visit to
a seance, but on one occasion, at a
Battersea public developing circle, I
saw fully controlled a youth who had
unwillingly attended.
The most frequent preliminary indi-
cative of control is the unaccountable
desire to sleep that takes possession
of sensitives even while they feel quite
ANALYSIS OF PSYCHIC SENSATIONS 31
fresh and wide awake. Indeed, a re-
freshing sleep prior to a seance im-
proves the result.
With entire loss of consciousness, the
change of personality is completed.
No shock is experienced, and the
dream state may be regarded as
symptomatic of impressions left on the
medium's mind afterwards.
THE FIRST CONTROL
It is a curious fact that, upon first
attempting control, spirits are often
compelled to express the dominant
thought and feeling uppermost at the
.moment of their transition.
Fortunately, both spirit and mortal
are unaware of their effect upon each
other during these initial experiences,
and what appears to be a very pain-
ful scene passes from the minds of
both, exactly as a dream is forgotten
on awaking. The paroxysm passes
quickly away, and is replaced by the
normal thought of the spirit control.
It sometimes forms a valuable link
in the chain of evidence by recalling
a long forgotten death scene, which
thus helps to establish the identity of
the communicator. Evidential tests
can be obtained at this time, because
the subconsciousness of the sensitive
plays but little part, if any. "
Telepathic interference is also less
obvious. As soon as the discarnate
friend exerts his will, all painful
struggles cease, and more or less con-
scious control begins.
OTHER-SIDE EXPERTS
This form of entrancement must not
be confused with the entirely different
modes of procedure adopted by guides
and other spirits used to controlling.
So deftly is the work then accom-
plished that the presence of the spirit
control is unnoticed, save by the
medium, or those acquainted with his
mannerisms.
The phase is known as "uncon-
scious control," because the spirit is
quite ignorant of the fact that he has
been "tuned in." Guardian spirits
take advantage of these opportunities
to "switch on" various types of
spirits, and watch the results.
This has the dual effect of stimulat-
ing the medium's psychic activities,
and at the same time arouses to con-
sciousness those who, for well-defined
reasons, have failed to pass imme-
diately to brighter spheres. It gives
us glimpses into underlying laws.
I used the phrase "switch on," be-
cause it is self-evident that the visitor
would be incapable of controlling a
sensitive without assistance. Many do
not know, and it is difficult to make
them realize, that they have passed
through the change of death.
Often, in rescue circles, a spirit
control is more surprised than the
sitters to find himself talking through
an unaccustomed body, but slowly
realises that something extraordinary
must have happened. For a little
while he is quite unconscious of
the fact that he is unfolding the secret
thoughts of his soul to entire strangers.
The first utterance is usually a re-
petition of phrases used on his death-
bed, and, if he passed away under any
stress of emotion, this automatically
reproduces itself, and carries on to-
wards its logical conclusion.
But while doing so, a consciousness
of the new conditioning dawns upon
him, and, at that critical moment, he
may abruptly cease soliloquising, and,
turning curiously from one to another,
will request some explanation that re-
veals his total ignorance of what is
actually happening.
Then comes a rapid interchange of
ideas, which ceases when he fully
realises the part he has been playing.
Usually, there is great thankfulness for
the light of understanding that now
breaks in upon their darkened minds,
and the awakened soul goes away
rejoicing.
Through the discovery of this
method, by which spirits are released
from their self-imposed bonds, there
has arisen what are termed "rescue
circles," which devote much time to
this work. These need speclal pre-
cautions with a distinctly religious
atmosphere and a scientific understand-
32 ANALYSIS OF PSYCHIC SENSATIONS
ing of all phases of mediumship, or
members of the circle may discover that
the would-be rescuers need rescuing
themselves.
KEEP OUT THRILL-HUNTERS
Emptional sensationalists should be
rigorously excluded from seances of
this type, and mediums trained to
resist the love of theatrical display,
for at this point it is easily possible
for mediumship to lapse, and be re-
placed by subconscious action.
The operation of the medium's own
desires effectually ousts the spirit. The
change is imperceptible, and can only
be guarded against by candid discus-
sion of what ought or ought not to be
attributed to inherent weaknesses.
In a sense, all developing circles are
also rescue circles, because they pro-
vide an avenue for all types of men-
tality. Until guides have proved their
worth by constant association, it is
never wise to believe that any casual
spirit control has taken charge of your
development for life.
Your secret thoughts and desires
constitute the attractive forces which
will eventually decide the quality of
manifesting spirit controls. Those who
can best aid you to reach the goal of
your ambition will be selected as guides
at the proper time.
Spirit people are human in their
attractions and repulsions, and, though
they' may ignore your peculiarities,
and strive to "work out their own
salvation" by doing the best they can,
they invariably step aside, so that your
free choice shall be unfettered. Your
conduct-not your statements-indi-
cate your desires.
During the unconscious stage, note
should be taken of all names and places
mentioned by the entranced medium,
with a view to establishing identity
later.
Too much reliance, however, must
not be placed upon the information
given, because, as neither spirit nor
medium are conscious during this
phase of control, or, at best, are hazy
and confused, the results approximate
oft-times to purely hypnotic states,
wherein subconscious material is alone
in evidence.
SPIRIT SOLILOQUIES
In the earlier efforts it will be use-
less interrupting the dreamlike narra-
tion of the spirit visitor's soliloquy.
Persistence merely forces the medium
back to consciousness. Usually the
questioner is ignored, and the spirit
talks on.
Gradually, the change is wrought,
and the subconscious ramblings of the
spirit-for it must not be thought that
only mortals exhibit subconscious
effects-give way to a more or less
complete realization of the situation.
The more you can induce spirits to
unburden their souls by pointing the
way towards true personal salvation,
by forgiving their enemies, and prac-
tising virtues, the better will be the
result. The developing circle thus be-
comes a rescue circle.
33
MENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS
THE folly of allowing mediums at
this stage of their development to
pose in public before gaping
crowds of sceptics needs only a
moment's thought to condemn it
utterly.
It is bad for Spiritualism, which, at
this stage, is made to look ridiculous;
bad for the spirit, who now needs
sympathetic help, and worst of all in
its effects upon the medium, who may
subconsciously "play up" to the
audience, and thus lapse from true
mediumship, and simulate control.
Patients undergoing the operation
of trepanning sometimes exhibit
analogous states. A blow on the head
stops conversation and consciousness at
the same moment, but as soon as the
surgeon lifts a piece of bone from
the brain the patient resumes conversa-
tion at the exact point at which it
ceased.
In the case of returning spirits,
many years may have elapsed between
the shock of death and the restoration
of consciousness.
In the meantime they are but
"drifters" in what has aptly been
termed " Fogland," a state of dreamy
indecision due to their failure on earth
to think positively and constructively,
and thus qualify for brighter spheres.
Sometimes the controlling spirit
quite clearly and distinctly remembers
all its past life immediately. Others
seem gradually to pick up the threads
of past events connected with their
earthly life, and on arriving at the
thought of their death, immediately
pass into that state, and lose control
of the medium entirely.
CHANGE OF PERSONALITY
Only after repeated efforts can they
survey their earthly life without emo-
tion or subconscious reaction, which
cancels their ability to continue the act
of controlling the medium's body.
Frequently the first indication re-
ceived by sensitives that they are
trance mediums, is through the extra-
ordinary change of personality that
occurs. It may or may not be accom-
panied by partial or complete loss of
consciousness.
The type of individual subject to
deep trance states are usually, most
matter-of-fact persons, without the
slightest ambition to distinguish them-
selves in this way. Unconscious
trance happens less frequently to the
rapid-thinking section of humanity,
who apparently do not possess the
special quality of aura through which
deep trance states become possible.
The medium is actually benefited by
the stimulation caused by another men-
tality utilising his dormant faculties.
The law of use provides the simple
explanation. Exercise produces
strength, disuse induces atrophy and
decay.
EASY TO CONTROL
It is true that volatile chatterboxes
are more frequently controlled, but
consciousness is not so completely
eliminated, and therefore the subcon-
sciousness of the medium interferes
more often.
With active brains, or irrepressible
self-consciousness, the mentality is too
keenly operative to permit deep trance.
Even though intensely desired, it is
sometimes years before any indication
of trance mediumship appears. In-
tensity of desire defeats its own object.
The theory of hypnotists, that medium-
ship is due to "expectancy," is clearly
wrong.
The slightest thought on the part
of a developing medium during con-
trol sometimes acts like a notice to
quit served on the temporary tenant..
The same law, properly utilised,
enables the medium to become selective
as to his controls, and by post-hypnotic
suggestion to himself, may inhibit
statements or compel reference to ideas
that are dominating his mind.
All this may happen subconsciously,
without directive thought being con-
sciously directed towards accomplishing
the end desired. When co-operation is
properly understood, what happens by
34 1ENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS
"accident" can be arranged for by
design.
At present, the spirit people are
compelled to ignore such interruptions,
and, at other times, the interference
blends with the message, and passes
unnoticed. The same law will be
found operative when mediums adopt
a hypercritical attitude towards their
own mediumship. In the result, it
either changes its form, or disappears
entirely.
An understanding of these laws ex-
plains why the Nazarene so continu-
ally emphasized the need for faith.
It clears the personal factor from the
path of the spirit operators, and thus
makes "miracles " possible.
So long as calm, steady faith is un-
disturbed, there is no difficulty in
obtaining evidence of external mentali-
ties, but as soon as critical analysis of
one's own states of consciousness sets
in, the subconscious element makes
deep trance impossible.
CONSCIOUS CO-OPERATION
In many cases, the change is bene-
ficial, because the medium learns to
hold himself positive at will, and thus
becomes a conscious co-operator, in-
stead of an unconscious tool. Their
power of resistance is sufficiently
strengthened to attain the apostolic
ideal mentioned in 1 Cor. xiv. 32:
" The spirits of the prophets are sub-
ject to the prophets."
These considerations illustrate the
folly of first developing mediumship,
and at a later date commencing to
study the A B C of the subject. This,
unfortunately, is the common practice,
and emphasizes the need for Lyceums
and study group classes.
Many have not the slightest notion
of the part their own mentality plays,
and, on suddenly awaking to the
knowledge that what has passed for
mediumship was, in fact, due to sub-
conscious action, become as stupidly
shamefaced as if caught in a criminal
act, and repudiate mediumship entirely.
This refusal to study the subject in
advance sometimes arises from the
foolish notion that developed brains
are a hindrance to spirit control. This
type tells you candidly that they
" never read anything," and it is this
wilful ignorance that keeps Spiritual-
ism on a low plane.
All inspiration or rational teaching
direct from the spirit world proves the
contrary. The better the brain, the
better the instrument. Fortunately, a
critical public is now bringing its
forces to bear, and " shut-eyed"
mediums are no longer taken at their
own valuation.
Indeed, so much rubbish has been
palmed off on Spiritualist societies as
"divine" inspiration from very high
guides that secretaries are often in-
structed not to book trance speakers
until long experience has proved their
worth.
STOREHOUSE OF KNOWLEDGE
Many sensitives quite fail to under-
stand that spirit people more often
work through subconsciousness than
otherwise. If the medium has a well-
filled storehouse to draw upon, the task
of the control is simplified and the
output improved.
In the early days of one's develop-
ment, all sorts and conditions of spirits
endeavour to manifest. All are quite
eager to assist, but all are not equally
capable.
Even though quite well aware of
their good intentions before attempt-
ing control, they find their desires
frustrated, and their own abilities im-
paired by the strange brain through
which they are attempting to express
themselves. If they cannot overcome
this difficulty it is hopeless trying to
establish their identity.
Their confusion will cease to be re-
garded as extraordinary, if one remem-
bers that the mere difference in the
shape of our heads differentiates
mentalities. The marvel is that spirits
do so often overcome these inherent
difficulties, and give tests of identity,
speak foreign languages, and present
specifically new ideas.
The medium's principal enemy is
egotism. This is exhibited in various
ways during control. Curiously enough,
MENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS 35
it sometimes presents counteracting
compensation by causing the medium
to give more explicit messages than a
more modest medium would dare to
transmit, because of their apparent
absurdity. The message often proves
true, none the less.
Similar difficulty arises from early
training, with its consequent pre-
judices; equally with egotism it warps
the message or supplants it entirely.
For these reasons, experienced Spiritu-
alists reject great names claimed by
spirit controls unless exceptionally
good evidence supports the claim.
Knowing our weakness, wise spirits
would not flatter our vanity. This
fact cannot be appreciated by those
whose self-esteem overwhelms their
sense of proportion.
The greater the claim, the less does
this class scrutinise the internal
evidence which alone proves the asser-
tions.
So unequivocal is the change of per-
sonality that spirit identities are as
easily recognised as if they are using
their own body.
Many people are misled by the idea
that spirits, thousands of years old,
can get directly into touch with them.
This foolish idea is equivalent to
learned academicians leaving more de-
sirable employment to undertake the
nursing of infants, or mathematicians
wasting their time teaching schoolboys
elementary arithmetic.
There are no such time-wasters in
the higher spiritual realms. Nurses
are quite capable of managing infants,
and teachers are filling the most ap-
propriate role while educating school-
boys.
WHAT IS THE CAPACITY?
It is true that both teachers and.
nurses require higher education, but
even here it would be useless thrust-
ing information upon them that they
are incapable of assimilating. Their
very limitations are a valuable asset
which places them in more sympathetic
relation to their work than a more
exalted mentality could hope to
achieve.
As spirits advance in love and
wisdom, their bodies grow more and
more sublimated until they approxi-
mate to pure white light. At this
stage they become invisible to spirits
on lower planes.
With advancement in spirit life,
there develops a growing distaste for
all the petty, selfish ambitions of
earthly minds. The automatic action
of this repulsion causes them to recede
from earthly environments.
Only their great love for struggling
humanity causes them to return again
and again, or arrange for channels of
communication through which they can
work.
Another factor, too often over-
looked, is that spirit people can in-
stantaneously flash an inspiration
upon a human brain that may take
the individual a whole lifetime to un-
ravel and comprehend in all its bear-
ings.
Equally with earthly learning, a step
by step process is operative in spirit
realms. Each transmitter of a great
idea draws some instruction from it
and applies it in accordance with his
knowledge or belief.
It matters not whether they are
mortal or immortal; the same law
applies.
Almost every medium has his band
of unseen helpers, although he may
be unaware of the fact.
For special work special means to
the end are arranged. The actual
spirit control, whose name is known
to us, is the nearest link approximat-
ing to earthly ideas. His own more
distant inspirers may be beyond the
range of his perception.
He is actually a centre of thought
forces selected by reason of his auric
and mental affinity with the sensitive.
The controlling spirit is as much a
medium as the sensitive in the body.
" DEAD " MECHANICS
His attunement to those who inspire
him is in direct proportion to that of
his relation to his own medium.
The spirit thus acts the part of
a mechanic manipulating a machine
36 MENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS
which responds to thought processes.
The mechanic can transmit his own
ideas if he wishes, or temper those
that he receives from other minds to
the capacity of the medium's physical
organism to express.
Frequently, a circle of spirits utilise
such centres for focusing ideas which
they could not transmit individually
because of impediments peculiar to
mankind's perverted viewpoints.
The world fails to- realise that
special forms of religion are almost as
much an accident of birth as national-
ity itself. In other countries, people
naturally adopt the prevailing ideas-
current near their birthplace.
Internationalism and extreme toler-
ance in religious outlook are essential
to true spiritual growth. Nationalism
and'religious systems are in many ways
hindrances to true progress and the
brotherhood of man.
Narrowness of outlook contracts the
channel through which spirit people
work and compels them to express the
medium's ideas rather than their own.
Breadth of mind is essential to the
development of quality in medium-
ship.
Too positive mental attitudes in any
specific direction so colours the types
of control that mediums, whose sub-
consciousness is the actual villain, are
often suspected of "acting a part."
Remembering that arrogance and pride
attract folly and duplicity, will poise
the mind aright, and love of truth for
its own sake will produce correspond-
ing reaction upon the controls.
In the type of spirit habitually
manifesting through you, some weak-
ness or quality of your own mind is
inevitably exposed.
When mediumship ceases to be a
"marvel," and becomes recognised as
a perfectly natural attribute, many
disabilities will pass away.
WHEN EGOTISM RULES
Pity the poor souls removed from
obscurity and suddenly thrust into the
glare of publicity. It shakes up their
entire mental world, and if their
slumbering vanity is equalled by their
ignorance and simplicity the down-
fall is rapid.
Change of temperament from a
modest, unassuming person to uncon-
trolled egotism is quickly reflected in
the mediumship. Clearly evidential
mediumship is displaced slowly but
surely by stilted utterances and ex-
travagant claims put forward by
"spirits" who never condescend to
prove their identity.
This phase is exceedingly difficult
to combat, because vanity resents
criticism, no matter how fair and
reasonable it may be. It finally re-
sults in obvious simulation, or trans-
forms true mediumship into a form of
self-hyprLotisation that has done great
harm to the Spiritualist movement.
From these classes arise the stupid
jealousies which divide societies into
small jangling sections. Pride will be
satisfied with nothing less than a
church each.
The result is a series of wretched
little meeting - places filled with
quarrelsome people eternally dividing
into smaller groups. Its fuller de-
velopment is seen in the formation of
new cults like that of Mary Baker
Eddy's Christian Science and Madame
Blavatsky's Theosophy.
THE CLAIMS OF MRS. EDDY
Mrs. Eddy claimed to be controlled
by Jesus and all the apostles-a fairly
common weakness among Christian
converts-with the result that she was
cold-shouldered by the Spiritualists
of her day. Resentment thereafter
coloured all her writings, which give
an entirely false impression to her
followers concerning Spiritualism.
Madame Blavatsky took a line
common to her type. They repudiate
everybody's mediumship unless it
manifests through themselves or their
devotees. In Madame Blavatsky's case,
it ceased to be called mediumship and
became something far more marvel-
lous-a claim transparently ridiculous
to all students of psychic phenomena.
It further results in distortion of
the simple facts of spirit life and
malignant enmity towards other
mediums, who were said to be ob-
sessed by spooks, shells and vampires.
MENTAL OBSTRUCTIONS 37
Both leaders emphasised aspects of
truth neglected by Spiritualists, and
both distorted the facts of mediumship.
Religionists of every denomination
must therefore be on their guard
against the dominant ideas that rule
their lives. The desire to prove the
correctness of one's own specific form
of faith finds continual subconscious
expression.
38
PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS
HE ecstatic and highly spiritual
feelings aroused by controls is
occasionally responsible for the
erroneous conclusions. The neophyte
immediately assumes that such feelings
confirm the correctness of his belief,
instead of which it is but the natural
corollary to aspiration.
Precisely the same sensations would
be experienced by seers who know
nothing of the medium's religious
ideas.
Subconscious action often accom-
panies true mediumship. An interest-
ing illustration of this aspect was re-
cently brought to my notice. A de-
voted Roman Catholic, in the district
where I live, is subject to cataleptic
seizures, during which the usual stig-
matic markings appear.
Blood marks as of thorns show on
the forehead and nail prints in the
hands and feet are seen. The fear
and awe with which her friends re-
gard the phenomenon intensifies it, but
they cannot understand why the "fit"
is invariably preceded by the death
scene of her father.
RE-ENACTING A DEATH SCENE
It is exactly as if she imitates the
death of her father over and over
again as a prelude to the stigmatic
markings, which all her Roman Catho.
lie friends regard as a special mark ci
favouritism by Deity.
Acquaintance with the laws of
mediumship would speedily arouse the
ignorant spirit father to a conscious-'
ness of his effect upon his daughter,
and teaching the girl the effects of
subconscious action would complete
the cure.
in course of time, a few fairy tales
will probably fill in convenient gaps,
and the Roman Catholic Church will
add another saint to its calendar. This
type of hypnotic subject is not neces-
sarily a medium, though the majority
of mediums pass through phases which
at times bear a striking resemblance
to hypnosis.
In trance mediumship, confidence is
sometimes mistaken for vanity, and
mannerisms for simulation. Actors
often carry a peculiar stage deport-
ment into everyday life, and teachers,
foremen and others accustomed to
giving orders, sometimes adopt a dic-
tatorial manner when speaking in
public, without the least intention of
doing so.
Students must check these manner-
isms, because posing turns the sub-
lime into the ridiculous, and influences
controls.
Unnatural poses are sometimes
assumed by mediums as a kind of pro-
tection against the blank incredulity
and unkind criticism so often meted
out to them. It is a defensive armour
born of their conscious integrity, with-
out which the message they have to
deliver would be strangled at birth.
THE NEW CONTROL
But, having noted how mannerisms
give rise to unjust suspicions, the wise
advocate will try to eliminate them.
Always be slow to decide who a
new control may be, especially if there
is any claim to authority in the pro-
nouncements. It may not be due to
egotism or personation, and it is wiser
to let the spirit visitor volunteer his
name than endow him with the one
uppermost in the minds of those
present.
Many purely hypnotic subjects claim
to be mediums without presenting the
faintest evidence for spirit control.
Auto-suggestion fills all gaps with
the subject's own ideas and desires.
The most casual mention of a name
in their presence is sufficient to induce
control by the spirit named, at the
earliest possible moment.
One woman in London, with money
to burn, actually prints a long list of
historical controls from whom she
claims to get lengthy communications.
Careful analysis will utterly fail to
discover the faintest evidence of any
mentality other than her own.
As simple talks to Sunday-school
children, many of these addresses are
PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS
quite good; but as specimens of dis-
carnate action they are an exhibition
of foolish assumptions. The sensitive
could actually give a better address
normally. Contrast this type with the
evidences obtained by the Crandons,
at Boston, and similar seances every-
where, and the differences are so obvi-
ous that only the wilfully blind fail
to perceive them. Mediums not un-
naturally regard some of their own
ideas as "strong impressions" from
spirit people.
If a spirit claims to be an historical
character, but ksows nothing about
contemporary history, common sense
must supply another explanation, if
personation, a very rare occurrence,
fails to account for the ignorance and
discrepancies. These cautionary re-
marks apply to all forms of medium-
ship, and must never be overlooked.
I extract the following philosophic
and comprehensive explanation of
spirit control from "Practical Occult-
ism," by Tien Sien Tie, the spirit
control of J. J. Morse:
"The spirit mesmerists, being in the
subjective world, have to commence
their operations from the subjective
plane and work outwards. Hence we
(spirit people) have to work upon the
counterparts of the physical body as
presented in the spiritual body; and
to reach these we commence operations
upon the outer magnetic sphere, but
direct its efforts to the spiritual or
inner side o2 the human being.
HOW CONTACT IS MADE
"This is accomplished physiologic-
ally by directing the mind or thoughts
of the controlling power towards the
affections, for it is by working through
the affectional sphere we are able to
come into contact with physical condi-
tions of the affectional propensities."
(This very significant statement
should be noted. It supplies one of
the reasons why the oracles of ancient
Greece and Rome were chosen from
among virgins before passional stimuli
or carnal desires withdrew the mind
from the higher psychic activities and
religious fervour required.)
" Then, if the manipulation is for a
mechanical result, instead of turning
the forces into the superior intellectual
brain, the flow of force is continued
into the nervous department, and from
the nervous outward into the muscular
parts.
" Thus, by having the sympathetic
nervous system under control, we are
gradually able to withdraw the outer
forces and focus them inwardly, as
in the case of the human mesmerist;
and little by little we are able to sus-
pend the active operations of external
sensations and consciousness and in-
duce the condition of sleep that you
know as the spiritual or magnetic
trance."
In other words, spirit people act
upon the spiritual body in precisely
the same way as a human mesmerist
acts upon the physical body. Because
of this entirely different method of
approach, spirit-developed mediums
tend to become aspirational and form
a class distinct from ordinary mesmeric
subjects, whose powers are unfolded
without enriching the soul.
" When you are getting on that road
... where the individual exercise of
your own powers becomes a possibility
to you . . . the true cultivation of
mediumship is the stepping-stone to
the exercise of your own spiritual
power. . . . As a rule, we deprecate
the development of children as
mediums.
" Our observation is, that medium-
ship should never be developed until
the physical system has nearly attained
its growth. You can then draw upon
the vitality without much danger to
the health of body or mind.
"Mediums should not be developed
before seventeen or eighteen years of
age, or even older. It is most per-
nicious, physiologically and spiritually,
to try and hasten the development in
any case of growing children."
PSYCHIC LETHARGY
The following is a somewhat similar
extract from Wallis's "Guide to
Mediumship ":
" There is an effort gradually to sub-
40 PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS
due the normal activities of the body
to a state of quiescence. This induces
a heavy, depressing, drowsy kind of
feeling; a lethargy stealing over the
bodily functions, until one by one all
the activities of the body come to
rest. ...
"This quietude develops into a
state of sleep wherein the positive
actions of the vital functions are
turned inwardly instead of being
allowed to express themselves out-
wardly as in waking activity. This
results in drawing forth a psychological
aura, generated within the sphere of
the body itself, and constitutes a bond
or link between the medium as sub-
ject and the spirit as operator . . .
"When this nervous link has been
established, there is a further effort of
will on the part of the operator to
awaken certain ranges of faculties
within the mental sphere of the subject.
For this special purpose, the superior
intellectual faculties are more directly
appealed to, agreeable with sublimity,
foresight, reason and colour.
" Then a certain amount of physical
energy is liberated, as a sort of steam
to direct the machinery when the
handle is turned. Presently the wheels
are set in motion and mentally there
is an awakening of the higher
faculties. . .
"In some cases, the spirit is with-
drawn from the body, though sufficient
relationship is maintained so that the
individual may remain a living being.
In other cases, where it is not neces-
sary the spirit should be withdrawn,
it is reduced to a state of quiescence.
DIFFICULTIES OF CONTROL
" This is absolutely essential,
because in proportion to the activity
of consciousness, so are the difficulties
of control . . just in proportion as
the individual resumes sway over any
part or parts of the body, so in that
proportion is control prevented. Thus
bodily and mental links are completed
that enable us to build up, step by
step, the complete result that is called
'spirit control.' "
It is clear from these extracts that
it is the mentality of the medium, the
spirit self, that is operated upon rather
than physical brains.
Mediums must not expect to be
carried like infants all their lives; they
must make efforts to rise to the level
of their guides. Trance states stimu-
late dormant faculties which, sooner or
later, ought to become the medium's
normal expression.
This desirable end attained, enforced
unconsciousness no longer serves any
useful purpose, and conscious co-
operation should supersede it.
Sometimes, deep trance passes into
conscious control, in which the medium
exerts no active volition during the
addresses and can at any point dis-
miss the control and carry on by him-
self if he so desires. The majority of
our best mediums pass through trance
states to inspiration of a high order.
J. J. Morse was a type of this devel-
opment.
From porter to an editor, via the
stages of trance mediumship to excep-
tionally high inspiration with marked
executive ability in' many directions,
was no mean achievement, and speaks
volumes for the wisdom of his spirit
guides.
As trance gradually gives place to
inspiration, the medium experiences
continually increasing difficulty in
deciding the precise part played by
his own mentality, and presently may
decide that spirits have nothing what-
ever to do with the brilliance he now
disnlays. He is wrong.
He now approximates to types of
genius who are quite unconscious of
the help they receive from spirit
people and who, in consequence, flatter
themselves that their own unaided men-
tality is alone operative.
STUDY YOUR GIFTS
There is closer association between
all forms of mediumship than is gener-
ally recognised. Try to discover which
phase you are best fitted to express,
and specialise in its development.
Those who get fleeting manifestations
of many forms of mediumship are
rarely dependable, and cannot with-
PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS 41
stand the stringent tests modern
scientists demand.
As specialists stand head and shoul-
ders above their fellows in other
departments of work, so must the
medium of the future who desires to
prove spirit communication to an in-
tensely materialistic and sceptical
world.
The tendency to regard mediums as
"marvels" should be resisted because
of its reaction on the medium and his
mediumship. Do not put mediums on
a pedestal or flatter them. They are
but ordinary men and women subject
by reason of their additional sensitive-
ness to greater extremes of thought and
feeling than the normal individual, but
that is all.
To make them feel they are a class
set apart from the world places them
in a false position which alienates
friendships and compels them to be-
come self-centred and "eccentric."
Properly developed, they will un-
doubtedly get more refined than their
associates; but if courted, flattered, or
compelled by the mistaken kindness of
friends to resort to stimulants and
enter upon a round of life for which
they are utterly unfitted, do not blame
the controls.
Blame the selfish worldlings who first
use them as toys to while the idle hours
away, and then consign them to the
social scrap heap as soon as a newer
interest arises.
This grave danger is inherent in pro-
fessional mediumship. Traps are con-
tinually placed around mediums.
Sensitives, careless of the laws of
mediumship, and investigators who fail
to recognise any laws at all, speedily
induce deterioration.
REPELLING THE GUIDES
Sensitives feel it incumbent upon
them to "play up" to their pay-
masters, and unconsciously repel the
very guides who would "hold them
up lest at any time they dash their
feet against a stone."
When sitters understand their per-
sonal, mental and physical effects upon
the mediums they employ, responsi-
bility will be more correctly appor-
tioned. A sound moral and intellectual
groundwork will then form a pre-
requisite to the public presentation of
mediumship.
All mediums should try to acquire
robust health. Without it, you cannot
be a perfectly balanced instrument.
Bad health may not prevent medium-
ship expressing itself, but the power
should never be used while you are
unwell.
It will, perhaps, increase your in-
firmity. Besides, it is a reflection on
your guides. They can advise and heal
others, but their advice is evidently
useless to you. Subconsciously, this
idea permeates the audience and their
criticism reacts upon the medium.
While in robust health and breathing
naturally, with all mental conflict
erased, the human body exhales the
requisite magnetic force as easily as
the flowers project their perfume. This
is the ideal state for physical mani-
festations, and, though not so obvious,
is just as needful in every other phase.
Sickness depletes the nerves and thus
robs the spirit people of the elements
essential to manifestations. There are
notable exceptions, but these, viewed
from the standpoint of humanity with
daily tasks to perform, are complete
failures.
Start your day with the deep breath-
ing exercises recommended under the
heading of "Yoga." Follow this with
five minutes dumb-bell exercise. Con-
scientiously performed every morning,
this works wonders. It is not for
health's sake alone that I want to im-
press upon you the necessity for robust
health.
THE POWER TO RESIST
Its main purpose is so to develop
your power of resistance that whenever
you "take on" unpleasant or un-
healthy conditions from returning
spirits, or from your audience, you will
throw them off automatically and with-
out conscious effort.
Some sensitives plunge immediately
into "death" states which may need
counteracting by definite effort of will.
42 PROCESS EXPLAINED' BY SPIRITS
The temperament will decide whether
they will be affected lightly, as in
psychometry, or be deeply entranced.
From every standpoint, it is desir-
able to have good health, and not the
least reason is the possibility of mis-
taking your own infirmities for spirit
control or influences. Therefore, make
diet your medicine and avoid sickness.
In well-conducted seances, the
medium returns to consciousness as re-
freshed as he should be by a good
sleep. If the contrary occurs, it is
evidence that compensating elements
are required in the circle to counteract
the drain upon the sensitive.
It is here that the study of auras
will prove of inestimable value.
If objectionable consequences con-
tinually affect the medium, it is usually
traceable to unhealthy sitters. A mal-
ady of the mind may be as inimical to
good results as a diseased body.
Alternatively, it may indicate that the
guides are incompetent, and these must
be requested to give place to those
who can keep the medium in good
health.
This, of course, does not apply to
mediums who give an excessive number
of seances, or those whose ill-health is
chronic. If excessive exhaustion con-
tinues, the medium should withdraw
from seances so obviously unsuited to
healthy development. The rule, of
course, applies equally to non-
mediums.
If sitting by yourself produces the
same result, give it up. Your first duty
is towards the world in which you live.
If you persist, despite Nature's clear
intimations, please do not blame Spirit-
ualism or the spirit world for your
own folly.
Sitters who are " too sensitive to sit,"
because they take on every sickly con-
dition imagination can discover, must
be dissuaded from attending seances at
all. These people require definite
training in auto-suggestion to
strengthen their wills.
THE "MARTYRS "
It is useless developing mediumship
if it is likely to become a burden to
you and a nuisance to everyone else.
I have met many of this type, but
never found the very slight symptoms
of mediumship they exhibited worth
the martyrdom they claim to experi-
ence. They usually suffer from
hysteria, but seek to extract sympathy
by calling it mediumship.
But having stated this fact, we are
also compelled to acknowledge that
many people are constitutionally unfit
to attend developing circles, and
therefore suffer. Withdrawal is the
only cure.
Thought, transmitte" to a medium,
flows as naturally through the open
channel as a river along a watercourse.
Frequently, several streams converge.
When they are consciously collected
and utilised we get orderly medium-
ship. With accidental influx, we get
confusion.
The interruptions may proceed quite
unintentionally from the audience or
spirit operators. This is one of the
reasons why spirits so often work in
bands. Sometimes, to mortals, they
seem most incongruously associated;
but each unit of the group forms a
specific mental or auric link essential
to perfect manifestations.
THE OTHER-SIDE LINK
The spirit most closely associated
with the medium is a particularly im-
portant link between the medium and
all other communicators to regulate,
modify, or clarify the flow of ideas
directed towards the medium. The
rest of the band act as directive or
protective forces.
When one knows the many conflict-
ing streams of thought that sway
audiences, their utility is obvious. The
medium spirit is also necessary to tem-
per the overwhelming power of greatly
advanced intelligences, whose direct
control might frustrate their own de-
sires.
The medium spirit may therefore
be likened to a lens which collects and
intensifies certain streams of thought,
but which eliminates others. It de-
pends largely upon their ability
PROCESS EXPLAINED BY SPIRITS 43
whether anything of real evidential
value is presented.
It is a curious fact that spirit people
more often work along our lines of
prejudice than in direct opposition.
It.is the line of least resistance and
consonant with their general attitude
of leading rather than compelling.
Though our free will seems to be abso-
lutely submerged during entrancement,
it is often subconsciously active.
This fact must always be remem-
bered, because all phases of medium-
ship are tinged by its operations.
Subconsciousness is a bulwark against
too ready acceptance of new ideas, and
even spirit control cannot force us to
receive ideas that we cannot compre-
hend or are not ready to utilise.
Foreign languages or particular
types of message merely float on the
stream unnoticed by the medium. But
the operations of subconsciousness help
us to understand how and why certain
types of mind literally compel their
guides to give teachings in accordance
with cherished ideas.
This is especially noticeable in auto-
matic scripts, because independent
minds are better able to trace causes
that escape the actual writer.
Nor would it be wise for spirit con-
trols to contend for more literal inter-
pretation. It would probably result in
failure to get any part of their mes-
sage delivered. Among sectarians,
this aspect can be easily traced.
Nuns and Salvation Army lasses
naturally assume that every bright
spirit they see or hear must be Jesus
or some well-known saint. Associa-
tion of ideas does the rest.
Nor does the mistake often get rec-
tified when they learn the nature of
spirit control. Usually their pride
cannot admit the possibility of a mis-
take, although it is clearly apparent
that much lesser mentalities could quite
easily deliver the exceedingly simple
messages they receive.
This type of hypnotic subject gets
controlled (9) by mythical gods,
queens, emperors and any notorious
character they read or hear about.
They are primarily responsible for the
ridicule that Spiritualists receive from
people who do not realise that auto-
suggestion merely covers a fraction of
the phenomena.
SENSATION HUNTERS
This class unfortunately thrust them-
selves forward as authorities-and
newspaper reporters, eager for sensa-
tions, give them the prominence they
crave.
Subconscious activity also presents
other difficulties. Whenever specific
tests are devised, the medium's own
mental interference is immediately in
evidence. The desire to succeed, or the
fear of failure, or criticism, so in-
fluences their minds that organised
testing rarely does them justice.
In some cases, I found it wisest to
make arrangements with the spirit
operators direct, and thus avoided
mental interference from the subject.
If you cannot get the controls to co-
operate it is usually waste of time to
experiment.
In one case, I found the shock of
discovering subconscious action set up
such a revulsion of feeling that all
mediumship was suspended for
months, although the medium was
above suspicion in every way. Similar
results accrue from unjust charges and
suspicions unwisely ventilated.
The reflection upon their honesty
immediately causes mediums to close
the very avenues that would prove
their case. When mediums realise that
conscious integrity is their best asset,
they will not allow ignorance to affect
them, nor think that every honest en-
quirer who puts searching questions is
of necessity an enemy.
44
SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE
HE predominance of the hyper-
critical faculty in a medium will
effectually prevent the emergence
of mediumship. It constitutes an an-
tagonistic thought stream which suc-
cessfully resists all telepathic impacts.
We can thus understand why simple
faith works apparent marvels, and why
the cottage produces far more reliable
mediums than the college or the
palace. This aspect will pass away
when mediums learn correctly to ap-
praise their own mental action in all
manifestations and do not resent the
imputation of subconscious action as a
personal affront or condemnation.
It is but a provision of nature, act-
ing as a buffer against the unwise
manipulation of forces we are not
quite ready to utilise, that compels
us to assimilate knowledge slowly.
These considerations help us to under-
stand why the older school of mes-
merists occasionally met with such
startling success.
PERFECT SELF-CONTROL
The entranced subject was rendered
incapable of thinking outside a speci-
fied orbit, and therefore concentrated
upon the desired objective more effec-
tually. Mediums who grasp this prin-
ciple and inhibit all mental processses
that militate against accuracy will
excel by reason of their perfect self-
control.
The ideal circle would not need
spirits of varying grades in order to
produce manifestations. It would
vibrate in unison with the sphere con-
tacted.
Alas! the world has no time for
spiritual unfoldment, though it gladly
develops psychic powers if by any hot-
house process it can force them into
activity. It is interested in the know-
ledge acquired, but refuses to march
towards the goal it reveals.
EARTHLY FOLLIES
The follies of early death, suicide,
vice, slumdom, drugging and every-
thing that keeps Man on a low plane
is clearly antagonistic to the teaching
received from living examples of
earth's errors who return to enforce
the moral.
Mere communication with spirit
people will not carry our souls one
step further along the road of spiritual
progression nor usher in the millen-
nium. We must adopt new slogans
and realise that all reforms are religi-
ous activities.
We race through life intent upon
things that from a spiritual standpoint
matter nothing at all. Not only are
earthly gains and honours unimpor-
tant, but they actually constitute an
impediment when used for selfish ends.
So much so, that often those whom
the world deems great, awake in the
spirit world naked and ashamed, or
clad in the rags which symbolise their
spiritual poverty. There is only one
royalty in the spirit world-the royalty
of worth.
If scientists would form circles for
the discovery of spiritual verities, and
healers, and every type of mediur
combine for higher development, what
heights might we not attain7
I must reiterate that psychic de-
velopment without soul culture is but
knowledge without spiritual advance-
ment.
While it is true that all-round de-
velopment is best for individuals, it is
equally true that only those who
specialise make any pronounced addi-
tiolm to our scientific advancement.
Change in the form of mediumship in-
draws new operators who cannot get
so expert as those who deal with one
phase continually.
There is a natural desire on the part
of mediums to obtain all types of
phenomena, but as your auric and
mental qualities cannot be adapted for
every phase, the result is a series of
fleeting and somewhat unsatisfactory
experiences.
By demanding the impossible, you
keep your spirit friends experiment-
ing, with the result that true progress
is hindered. The wisest course is to
SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE 45
seek their advice on all matters of
development and be slow to dictate
what you desire if it opposes their
judgment.
Once having decided which form you
are best fitted to express, pursue it
consistently, learn all you can about it,
and second your guides' every effort.
Thus and thus only can you hope to
excel.
Mediums should be prevented from
sitting in public circles until their
guides have sufficient ability to use
them without unseemly displays. The
immature exhibition given is entirely
misleading. It is bad for the medium,
bad for Spiritualism, and unwise in
many ways.
Sudden loss of consciousness often
means entire collapse of the body, as
if the medium had suddenly fainted.
If this happens in public, the gaping
crowd get quite a wrong idea of spirit
control.
INDICATIONS OF TRANCE
It is lack of control, not conscious
spirit control that is thus exhibited.
Frequently the first intimation one
receives of sensitiveness is inability to
move a limb, or the entire body may
become rigid as in catalepsy. Some-
times, but by no means always, con-
sciousness is suspended at the same
moment.
These phases are not desirable as
public exhibitions. Temperament plays
a great part, and the self-consciousness
of most people would arouse sufficient
resistance to prevent this happening in
public, and, if taken unawares, would
certainly stop its recurrence.
Unfortunately, there are others-
lovers of sensation-who seek the lime-
light on every possible occasion, and
have thus brought continual discredit
upon Spiritualists.
Public developing circles played a
necessary part in the early days of
the movement to draw the attention
of a sceptical world, but it is high
time this crude method was supplanted
by a scientific application of the
eighty years' teaching Spiritualists
have now received. If public develop-
ing seances are held at all, they should
merely form the basis from which
likely material may be drafted into
properly constituted circles.
AIMLESS DRIFTERS
Many sensitives appear to drift aim-
lessly from one public circle to
another, year after year, giving in-
fantile exhibitions - not of spirit
power, but of utter inability to grasp
the merest rudiments of psychic un-
foldment.
Do not adopt a strained mental
attitude, nor think you can put on or
take off Religion like a cloak. This
checks development by withholding the
semi-physical link whereby manifesta-
tions are produced.
Change in mental poise compels
alteration in the mode of spirit ap-
proach and results in spasmodic
mediumship and confusion. Happy
naturalness is the keynote to success,
and, for this reason, likeminded people
get the best results.
The value of hymn singing lies in
the fact that, for the time being, you
refrain from distracting thought and
unite in common desire to help. But
even singing must not be overdone, or
exhaustion will ensue from a different
cause.
Genial conversation on the purpose
of the meeting is a distinct help, but
if this becomes too engrossing it sets
all your psychic energies travelling in
one direction, and spirit people have
no option but to follow the lines you
lay down.
It means that you are indrawing
spirits whom your guides have no
right to eject, even though they have
the power. In all cases, remember that
mental attitudes at a seance have an
important bearing upon results, and
make your regulations accordingly.
Conductors are often very lax
in their control of seance work
from fear of giving offence, but
upon them the responsibility falls if
complaint or complexities arise. They
cannot prevent incongruous elements
drifting into public circles, but in
semi-private seances this ought to be
possible.
46 SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE
A few practical hints may therefore
be of value to those upon whom this
duty falls. Do not close the seance
abruptly. First, look around to see
whether a few minutes' extended time
are advisable, and then announce your
closing hymn.
This brings the meeting to a satis-
factory termination, with the audience
standing to receive the benediction.
The meeting thus closes in an orderly
fashion, and sensitives have reasonable
time to return to full consciousness
without feeling irritated by too sudden
termination.
It is an essential part of the con-
ductor's duty to make quite sure no
sitter leaves the seance room under
partial control. This is quite simply
effected if the foregoing suggestion is
adopted.
The mere disturbance by singing and
standing up is usually sufficient to
break up the somnolent state into
which some sitters fall, who are not
recognised as sensitives, but who fill
the useful r6le of reservoirs or dis-
tributors of magnetic force.
COMMON COURTESY
The requirements of common
courtesy ought to render emphasis on
minor points unnecessary, but con-
ductors soon discover that ignorance
of psychic laws, and total disregard
for rules and regulations, continually
frustrate good order and destroy the
conditions essential to the production
of phenomena.
Sometimes foolish sitters, or
mediums anxious to please, prolong
their conversation with the spirit con-
trols long after the seance has officially
terminated.
The result of this reprehensible
practice means that young ill-
developed mediums travel homeward
talking and gesticulating like im-
beciles. The whole body of Spiritual-
ists incur undeserved opprobrium in
consequence.
REFRESHED SITTERS
The effect of conductors adopting
beneficent rules which compel the
entire circle to assert individual in-
dependence just prior to leaving, is
manifold. The meeting closes
promptly to time and all sitters are
refreshed by their meeting.
On sensitives, the result is strikingly
apparent. If they know that at a
definite time their controls will be
summarily ejected or ignored, sub-
consciousness automatically gets active
as closing time approaches, and spirits
find continuously increasing difficulty
to maintain control.
Sensitives, therefore, become normal
without the least need of any assist-
ance. The further result is that all
are benefited and look forward with
pleasurable anticipation to the next
meeting. Mediums gain confidence in
themselves and development is rapid
and easy.
The alternative is lowered vitality
or peevishness. When the conductor
lacks decision, or the mediums refuse
to obey his instructions, headaches and
irritation are the unpleasant con-
sequences.
When sitters are properly selected,
and mediums Work well within the
healthy exercise of their power, the
whole circle feels exalted and ex-
hilarated.
The medium becomes an object of
respect, developing a self-reliant tem-
perament, and satisfactory phenomena
are produced. Compare this ideal with
the weak-willed and capricious speci-
mens, and the value of wise conductor-
ship is self-evident.
From what has been said, it is easy
to see that a conductor who never loses
consciousness, is best fitted to preside
at public or semi-public seances. He
should have sufficient experience not to
lose his head at unexpected happen-
ings, but must be sufficiently magnetic
to assist and encourage.
By merely holding a medium's
hands in his own, he can often resolve
a partial control into a complete
success. The principal danger to
guard against, whilst doing this, is
that of making any suggestion affect-
ing the medium hypnotically.
At this transition stage, the sensitive
SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE 47
may pass momentarily under the con-
ductor's control and thus automatically
oust the spirit instead of indrawing
one. The effect of holding a medium's
hands inside the ordinary circle in-
tensifies the power locally.
Every electrician knows what is
meant by a "short circuit." This is,
in some ways, analogous to what hap-
pens at such moments. A better way
is to link up a friendly and willing
medium already under control with the
novice.
COLOURED CONTROLS
The conscious co-operation of the
more experienced medium's guides
expedites matters considerably. This
is especially noticeable with coloured
controls, but is not advisable in public
meetings owing to the pandemonium
that sometimes ensues, which would be
wholly misconstrued by investigators.
Great tact is necessary, whatever
you do. Mediums sometimes develop
unaccountable antipathies or attrac-
tions while abnormal. Never touch
them if they have the slightest objec-
tion to your doing so.
If you persist, a permanent antagon-
ism may be aroused and subcon-
sciously carried over into everyday
life.
The fact that only one medium at a
time can express the fullest pitch of
his individual capacity has so im-
pressed some conductors that they
arrange for one sensitive at a time to
be experimented upon. This is effected
by placing all sitters under a bond to
refrain from speaking and to resist
control during the period allotted to
another.
As the power to resist is as valuable
as the ability to surrender, the exercise
has a beneficial effect. In addition,
modest and retiring mediums are not
thrust into the background by more
aggressive temperaments.
It may be introduced into all de-
veloping seances as an exercise on
self-control. It compels exuberant
spirits to appreciate the value of the
text, " In honour preferring one
another."
Especially in public meetings should
this rule be adopted, so that the
medley of tongues shouting each
other down may not disgust or
affright the inquirer.
Conductors must not exhibit their
authority unduly. Quiet, sympathetic
firmness is best. Bossy interference is
always objectionable.
Mediums are not only sensitive to
spirit people, they respond even more
quickly to the thoughts and feelings
of people in the body. Moreover, in
their hypersensitive state, they are apt
to imagine grievances where no offence
is intended.
Like all true leaders, ideal con-
ductors are born rather than trained.
Their main effort must be directed to-
wards keeping the audience happy,
without permitting minds to fly off at
a tangent or conversation taking a
frivolous or personal channel.
But, side by side with this instruc-
tion, comes the apparent contradiction
that even a buffoon sometimes has a
distinct value in a seance room. You
get constant reminders of this by
noting how the spirit people break up
tense, strained mental attitudes by
turning on a sort of comic relief to
the more serious business in hand.
WHERE TACT IS NEEDED
Though concentration is valuable, it
easily gets transformed into a mental
state that defeats its own object by
restricting the output of magnetic
force. Conductorship, therefore, re-
quires great tact.
In physical seances this fact
emerges continually, and even hilarity
within bounds is sometimes encouraged.
The simple expedient of singing a
properly memorised hymn effects the
same purpose, but in most cases it is
best to follow the lead set by the
invisible operators.
Wise conductors always endeavour
to provide teaching to prevent young
mediums relying too much on their
spirit friends. Where this training is
neglected there is a tendency to grow
up like hot-house plants, very in-
teresting but quite incapable of fight-
48 SUBCONSCIOUS INTERFERENCE
ing the battle of life alone. The moral
is clear.
MAKING PREPARATION
The medium of the future must pre-
pare for his labours exactly as all
other workers have to do. That is to
say, the groundwork must be cul-
tivated, for until strength of character
develops side by side with psychic
unfoldment, ideal mediumship is
impossible.
The ideal conductor for developing
circles is a fully developed medium
who refuses to go under control or in
other ways "use up the power" by
giving phenomena, but who, at or near
the close of the meeting, is able to
describe the nature and causes of the
various thoughts and sensations
experienced by sitters.
Budding psychics then realise they
are not " imagining" and creating hal-
lucinations in mistake for clairvoyance,
and the explanation of what the spirit
people are trying to accomplish helps
all parties, and the mediums go con-
fidently forward with their develop-
ment.
By thus remaining quiet during the
major portion of the meeting, the con-
ductor adds his own store of magnetic
force to that required by the guides
of developing mediums, but, in an
emergency, is always able to advise as
to the best course to pursue, or get the
spirit people to do it for him.
It is not generally appreciated that
developed mediums absorb all avail-
able power while giving phenomena.
By remaining normal, they not only
refrain from drawing on the others,
but actually lend their more powerful
assistance to the less experienced
guides.
Oversight of these factors results in
failures so far as novices are con-
cerned, and what are termed "de-
veloping circles" are only so in the
sense that the leader improves-the
rest remain stationary.
But, in mediumship, the personal
equation is always the deciding factor.
Very few mediums are willing to sink
self in order that others may step into
their shoes.
Nor will sitters always permit them
to do so, because the tedium of waiting
can only be relieved by " something
happening." So, against their own
interests, sitters continually encourage
the principal medium to act.
Extreme elasticity must be allowed
in the application of all theories re-
lating to psychic phenomena. We are
but groping our way in the dark.
The conductor will discover that
the imitative faculty enables many
people to reproduce sounds that pass
for language until analysed. But you
must never charge your sensitives with
that explanation of apparent gibberish.
THE SUBCONSCIOUSNESS
Mediums are in the position of
hypnotised subjects continually cast-
ing about for a new suggestion to fol-
low, and if you suggest that the
subconscious element preponderates
and that they are merely imitating
each other, you will promptly discover
that all development will cease. In
their alarm, their own critical analysis
and fear will stop it.
In the illustrations that follow, you
will see that self-delusion is impossible.
You can but let these half-and-half
stages outwork themselves, as they do
if honesty and common sense hold the
balance true.
Intuition must supply the conduc-
tor's need at all times. Some mediums
willingly co-operate. Others flatly
oppose all educational efforts put for-
ward in their interests.
Without the wit to apply them, the
best rules and regulations are useless.
So to all I suggest that, if you are
dissatisfied, go to another circle. Do
not stay and make trouble.
You cannot make ignorant persons
appreciate your wisdom. Select your
own sitters and earnestly pray that
you may become an ideal conductor
yourself.
49
COLOURED SPIRIT
'CO-OPERATORS
M EDIUMISTIC sensations are
caused, first, by the temperament
and desires of the controlling
spirit impinging upon the auric sphere
of the medium; secondly, by a trans-
mitted auric or magnetic force used by
spirit people, which causes spasmodic
movements in the medium and through
which control is maintained; and,
lastly, to reactions from the psychic
body of the visitor.
The last-named automatically results
from some physical peculiarity carried
over by the psychic duplicate, or is
due to subconscious action on the part
of the spirit.
Temperament can be quickly dealt
with. One has but to compare the
effect induced by the presence of a
genial, generous soul on any assembly
with the reverse atmosphere created by
sour, crabbed or repulsive natures, to
understand how quickly and uncon-
sciously we all respond to predominat-
ing influences.
Now, imagine these feelings thrust
upon us with hypnotic force, and we
obtain some idea of the power and
method by which the thought and tem-
perament of a spirit effects a sensitive
during control.
The auric emanations were fully
dealt with in previous articles of this
series and it must be remembered that
its sublimations are equally the pro-
perty of the spirit body.
THE ETHERIC AURA
While in the physical body, the
grosser human emanation mingles
with the finer, but in spirit life, the
grosser having departed, the spirit
uses its more etherialised aura in
association with that of the medium
to form a lever to move ponderable
objects or impinge upon the human
brain.
What we do ignorantly, they per-
form consciously, and thus transmute
mental processes into physical effects.
Its operations cause the spasmodic
twitchings symptomatic of early devel-
opment, but which rapidly pass away
as unfoldment proceeds.
The majority of deep trance sub-
jects, and many who are never en-
tranced at all, exhibit its effects. It is
akin to a galvanic shock without its un-
pleasantness or tingling sensation.
It is wholly healthful, but sometimes
gives rise to subconscious imitation by
mediums who reproduce it as evidence
that they are actually spirit-controlled.
Nearly all muscular twitchings of
mediums are due to automatic re-
actions from the mind or body of
the controlling spirit. On control-
ling for the first few times, physical
disabilities peculiar to the spirit, such
as lameness or the causes of death, are
exhibited.
These are too automatic in their
action to be consciously induced,
though at times they are intentionally
shown. Until the spirit learns to sub-
due these manifestations by sheer
effort of will, apparently painful
scenes are continuously presented time
after time without any fuller develop-
ment.
The understanding of this problem
provides a rational reason why guides
impose great restrictions on some
spirits and refuse to let others control
at all. It is simply in the interests of
the medium, who might suffer from
unpleasant sensations or be injuriously
affected in health afterwards.
CONSEQUENCES OF CONTROL
Because these physical effects have
a marked influence upon the health of
the sensitive, it is imperative to learn
the consequences of control by differ-
ing types of spirit.
It also explains the inexplicable'loss
of memory that occasionally afflicts
controls, and why it is necessary for
50 COLOURED CO-OPERATORS
a spirit occasionally to leave the auric
sphere of his medium when he desires
to gain additional information.
It is not that he suffers from failing
memory, but that its clarity is affected
by the denser aura which is an actual
impediment to his thinking clearly.
Telepathic impacts from the audi-
ence or the desires of the medium have
also to be taken into consideration;
but there are occasions when effects
cannot be attributed to the mental
participation of either spirit or mortal.
These complexities forn the main im-
pediments to clear expressions of
identity.
The spirit reproduces in the medium
the sensations of hanging, drowning,
shooting and other death states.
It is clear that the spirit does not
consciously exhibit his own death
scene. His continual efforts to over-
come this disability proves that fact.
Only after many efforts is this
achieved.
Later on, when he learns to control
without help from the medium's
guides, and not till then, do undesir-
able death scenes and purely physical
reactions cease.
Do not confound this type of control
with the conscious control established
by spirits accustomed to the work.
Long continued exhibition of the same
death scene implies lack of develop-
ment on the part of the operator or
ignorance of the laws of spirit control
with consequent inability to overcome
automatic reactions. -
The solution of many problems in
mediumship will be found in the analy-
sis of the aura and psychic body.
Earlier articles mentioned elements col-
lecting over the dying body, composed
of all that lives after its decease.
These took shape and formed a per-
fect replica of the body from which
they emerged. This duplicate is so
perfect that it contains within itself a
faint. impress of the cause of death,
which induces reactions through the
physical body of the medium when the
memory of the spirit visitor re-estab-
lishes earthly relationships.
Just as our physical bodies react to
mind, so do the elements of which the
psychic organism is composed. These
react to the mind of the spirit through
the brain of the medium.
All types of death leave their corre-
sponding impress, which produce
manifestations frequently mistaken for
conscious control or that the spirit
makes these continuous and extra-
ordinary demonstrations for the ex-
press purpose of proving identity.
This is an obvious absurdity, for
one demonstration would be sufficient
for this purpose.
WHAT IS EXTRACTED
These experiences open up wide
fields for speculation. What exactly
does the spirit extract from the
physical body and retain, and what are
the consequences to the owner or to the
medium?
The answers will supply keys to
many apparently contradictory state-
ments by spirit people, and enable us
to understand the law of psychic
gravitation which compels each to go
" to his own place " in the spirit world.
Spirits have actually been known to
assert that they suffer from rheuma-
tism-a ridiculous statement from the
standpoint of other spirits who never
felt pain since leaving the body.
CHAINED BY MEMORY
But earthbound spirits whose
memories chain them to the past, and
who fail to realise the facts of their
physical decease, continually repro-
duce the illusion exactly as hypnotic
subjects do. In addition, they attract
the precise elements which give shape
and form to their surroundings and
feelings.
As soon as the spirit realises its
powers over the " substance " of which
its spirit body is composed, the dis-
abilities disappear. Presently, as he
COLOURED CO-OPERATORS 51
rises morally and intellectually, he, too,
will have some difficulty in remember-
ing that such a state as rheumatism
or lameness ever existed.
Ignorant newcomers to spirit
spheres are all controlled by their en-
vironment, but advanced spirits con-
trol the elements that surround them,
and by thus utilising the law of mag-
netic attraction and repulsion rise
superior to their influences.
The auric emanation has been
termed "magnetic." So it is; but in
a far wider sense than is generally
appreciated. It contains within itself
the polarities which decide spirit loca-
tion in that greater life.
The spiritual body is more obvi-
ously and definitely related to its
" mind field " than before transition.
It is because this "location" is a
mental state rather than a place that
so much confusion exists in the minds
of unprogressed spirits equally with
mortals.
Drifters in the spirit world are but
dreamers unaware of their release
from physical restrictions. They live
in a world of their own creation and
association with a medium is one of
the best methods used by their friends
to awaken them to the newer condi-
tioning.
Rescue circles on both sides of the
veil do this consciously, but if the
spirit drifts until enmeshed in the aura
of a sensitive ignorant of medium-
ship, the poor medium is classed as
eccentric or mad.
Fortunately, mentality acts with
marvellous rapidity on the psycho-
plasm of which the spirit body is com-
posed, and its owner soon learns to
stabilise himself in "the house not
made with hands."
ETHERIC REPLICAS
Mediumship thus serves the dual
purpose of releasing ignorant spirits
from their self-created thraldom and at
the same time quickens the psychic
perceptions of sensitives. The associa-
tion compels the spirit to review the
past and recognise its relationship to
the newer environment.
It is indefensible logic to assume that
only purified elements drawn from the
fleshly garment enter into the composi-
tion of the psychic organism. Every-
thing physical has its etheric counter-
part.
There is no teaching more consis-
tently given than that some spirits are
" dark" but that others approximate
to brilliant forms of light. It applies
to quality rather than quantity, but the
inference is clear.
It means that some spirit bodies are
denser than others, and that density
or " darkness " indicates a limitation
of dbvelopment or power.
That the elements of the spirit body
and its auric emanations are controlled
by the operations of thought is equally
obvious, because density can be
assumed when they wish to show them-
selves to mortals, or descend to lower
spheres, or change their costume or
appearance to assist clairvoyant
delineations.
The law of cause and effect is thus
seen in operation on spiritual planes.
The drunkard takes with him his crav-
ing for alcohol because he sowed the
germs of desire in his physical body.
When the purely physical craving of
a drunkard overpowers reason and he
becomes a dipsomaniac, it cannot be
said that the man is master of his
body. But if a hypnotist appeals to
his subconsciousness, the ego may put
up a sufficiently strenuous fight to
regain the mastery.
This condition has its parallels in
spirit life. Thought accretes material
which actualises itself as in a dream
and the dreamers in spirit life are, for
the time being, controlled by an en-
vironment of their own creation.
As they slowly wake to the fact that
they are responsible for this condi-
tioning, the scene changes and their
mental effect upon the sensitive
changes in like ratio. The action of
spirit control, after they have sunk
to a degraded condition, is equivalent
n aromusing a hypnotic subject to
normality.
52 COLOURED CO-OPERATORS
With repeated control, the indi-
vidual submerged by earthly condition-
ing recovers himself like a hypnotic
subject from hypnosis. The death scenes
gradually cease and definitely conscious
control begins.
Analyse the foregoing paragraph
sufficiently and you will discover a
greater incentive to self-control than
scores of sermons could supply.
THE POWER OF THOUGHT
But, at this point, we must be care-
ful to distinguish between " desire"
bodies and the results of accident or
disease. Germs of disease would excite
nothing but loathing. Nor would
broken limbs and other causes of death
excite anything but repulsion.
This thought acts as an eliminator
to the psychic body, and though the
scars due to earth's vicissitudes may,
under the impulse of memory, be gal-
vanised into momentary life while con-
trolling a medium, these would not
in any way indicate the spirit's real
and permanent state.
The fleeting memory does but serve
a useful purpose, by causing medium-
istic reaction proving identity, and
then retires into subconsciousness, for-
ever to remind us of the ladder we
have climbed.
The development of mediumship is
thus assisted and at the same time
operators learn consciously to disperse
the elements which enchain them to un-
desirable planes. That they leave no
bad effect upon the medium is due to
the watchful care of guardian angels
who surround their instruments with
counteracting forces.
COLOURED CONTROLS.
The most valuable of these I believe
to be the coloured friends who have
earned the name of " doorkeepers."
On the other hand, it emphasises
the necessity for mediums to lead clean,
wholesome lives, both mentally and
physically, so that they may not attract
or retain in their surroundings undesir-
ables from spirit lands.
It is only after long experience that
mediums learn to guard against inter-
ruptions. On both sides of the veil,
communicators quite innocently inter-
fere. Planes of consciousness separate
spirit people just as definitely as brick
walls separate physical bodies.
The idea that the spirit world is a
sort of operating theatre where every-
body is in sight of everybody else,
needs only a moment's thought to dis-
miss it completely.
Not all being in sight of each other
means that more than one operator
may be transmitting thought at the
same time. The same difficulty applies
to telepathy from the audience.
The spirit guides of developed
mediums partly overcome this difficulty
by interposing a medium spirit who
stands between the medium and this
fluctuating thought atmosphere to
regulate and transmit the messages.
So deftly is this work accomplished
that we cannot always detect it. It
also had the additional value of open-
ing a pathway to higher spheres which
the unaided soul cannot otherwise
visualise.
The auric influence of controls
upon sensitives emphasises the need
for spirit guides, whose mere
presence imparts vitality to depleted
sensitives. The principal work of these
"doorkeepers" concerns the health of
the medium and prepares the way for
other controls; though the mentality of
our coloured friends often leaves
nothing to be desired in the way of
mental acumen.
Their presence keeps off intruders
whose attempted control might reduce
the medium to a bundle of nervous
irritability. Quite unintentionally, this
effect might be induced by contact with
weakly psychic organisms or mentali-
ties which leave an undesirable mental
or physical impress behind.
I have quite failed to discover any
other explanation for the healthful and
buoyant feelings induced by coloured
controls than that they naturally ex-
hale a vital force which is transferred
to their mediums.
VIRTUE OF "SAVAGERY "
The usual explanation is that
COLOURED CO-OPERATORS 53
having lived closer to nature and free
from the white man's debilitating drugs
and anaemia-producing habits, their
auras reflect the results of their earthly
vitality and, their temperament being
entirely different from ours, causes the
medium to feel both mentally and
physically refreshed.
This does not apply to the modern
degenerate ruined both physically and
mentally by the introduction of
civilisation in the shape of rum, gun-
powder and evils consequent upon the
industrial processes like miners'
phthisis or restriction to compounds.
As the religion of Spiritualism con-
sists of practical reforms, I trust this
object lesson will impress its weighty
implications upon all whose voice, pen
or power may help to remove this load
of national responsibility.
It also teaches that both physically
and mentally we reap what we sow,
and, therefore, true development will
consider health of body as a psychic
factor.
The will is the vital factor both in
opening or closing the "door" to
spirit control, but the last control at
a meeting usually leaves a more per-
manent after-effect than those who
precede.
This proves the wisdom of those
guides who definitely select healthy,
simple-minded companions habitually
to associate with their mediums so that
their happy influence may restore and
maintain mental equilibrium, no matter
how distressing the previous controls
may have been.
A moment under their personal con-
trol at the end of a seance effects this
purpose, and the "door" is firmly
closed against all intruders.
The alternative to this specific co-
operation is plainly evidenced among
those sensitives who ignore the voice
of experience or submit to irregular
control at all hours or under unsuit-
able conditions. Their mediumship is
rarely reliable and their lack of self
control is shown in twitching nerves
and muscles.
Indeed, I have met mediums who
actually believe this exhibition of
nerve-jumping enhances their value in
the eyes of the public, so with every
little speech they make, they act like
contortionists and make hideous faces
which they think proves that it is a
discarnate operator affecting them.
These mannerisms should be checked.
They are often due to subconscious
action or the foolish notion that
mediums never utter a word without
assistance from their guides.
The mannerisms are occasionally ex-
cusable and are due to the intimate
association of the "doorkeeper "
spirits" with the medium. There is
frequently a duality of expression,
because they literally live within the
auric sphere of the sensitive and thus
form part of their mental processes.
CONTROLLING A SPIRIT
Being continually in contact, their
thoughts commingle. They thus become
a permanent factor in the life of the
medium, who must learn to " control
the controls " by and through the same
laws that they control him.
The auric "mind field" is common
ground to both spirit and mortal. Each
uses the same cords of communication.
Mediums will thus understand that
their own personal desires sometimes
have the effect of a command upon
those children of nature who quite
naturally do everything they can to
forward the medium's interests.
This interplay of thought is clearly
perceived by those who watch mediums.
We can tell immediately which spirit
is endeavouring to take control because
all unconsciously the medium adopts
their tricks of manner long before
actual control is established.
Later on, the 'merging is so definite
that the twain practically become one
mentality. From this power to in-
fluence controls has arisen the Theo-
sophic notion that mediums control
elementary forces. The medium who
is controlled by the right type of
guide will quickly discover that they
have independent volition of their own
and will forcibly remonstrate with
their mediums if occasion demands.
With white folk, decorum is unfor-
54 COLOURED CO-OPERATORS
tunately interpreted in terms of stiff-
necked, silent reserve which wholly
misconstrues the exhilarating move-
ments and vociferous interjections that
sometimes accompany the initial stages
of development by this type of control.
Ignorance and fear, combined with
a stupidly stilted unnaturalness mis-
named reverence, often resent the
manifestation and the valuable co-
operation of these useful adjuncts to
the seance room is rejected in conse-
quence. The further result is enfeeble-
ment of the phenomena and lessened
vitality in the medium.
In some respects, the ethical
standards of coloured folk are superior
to our own. They know nothing of the
cant and hyyocrisy that permeates
civilisation, but they need assistance
from our mental and scientific attain-
ments.
COLOURED ETHICS
They quite fail to see the need for
polite evasions or deceitful phrases,
and are, therefore, out of place in
many drawing-rooms, but they choose
this field of work in order to advance
their education in return for service
loyally rendered.
Oftimes, they add a worldly wisdom
that surprises and ashames us, and in
considering different ethical standards
we must remember that values are
appraised differently by different
nationalities and that these character-
istics carry over into the spirit world
where time is a negligible factor and
motives are more consistently ex-
pressed.
The day when spirits were regarded
as devils to be feared or gods to be
placated has long since passed away,
but recognition of their human quali-
ties emphasises their need as well as
their utility. In the past, they were
mistakenly endowed with omnipotence.
The real fact is that they often require
our help as much as we do theirs.
This is peculiarly applicable to
coloured controls. They require teach-
ing. If you desire their help, surely
it is not too much trouble to teach
them your language so that co-opera-
tion may be perfected?
THE DUTY OF SITTERS
Upon sitters, even more than the
medium, does the duty fall of edu-
cating those who are placed in our care
and thus prevent them offending the
canons of good taste.
The scandal of the " little black girls
who never grow up " would soon pass
away if mutual obligations were
respected. With fuller knowledge,
mediums will refuse to incur this
stigma.
They will realise that the long-con-
tinued childishness of a control is
either a reflection on the medium's
mentality or indicates an obvious
neglect of duty.
Wherever their worth has been suffi-
ciently tested and the strangeness of
associating with such characteristically
different temperaments wears off, they
improve both the health and disposi-
tion of their sensitives far more
definitely than their white-skinned co-
workers.
The latter may sometimes leave a
more aspirational or purely mental
influence behind, but both these condi-
tions deplete the nervous system and
need counteracting. Nor is constant
association with the griefs and worries
of people on both sides of the veil
physically beneficial.
The specific action of coloured con-
trols provides the antidote and counter-
acts these effects. It is because their
momentary contact restores nervous
equilibrium and induces a feeling of
robust health and happiness that they
are so often employed to close the
seance.
Conductors who know their worth
always seek their assistance in matters
of development. Without their help in
the early days of mediumship, to clear
away sickly conditions, which more
often arise from the sitters than the
controls, mediums would find their lives
anything but a bed of roses.
Resistance to their activities usually
means that the medium will experience
COLOURED CO-OPERATORS 55
great difficulty in throwing off the
influences of the seance room.
UNCONSCIOUS STRAIN
Moreover, few mediums realise that
spirits who casually control are not
always conscious of their personal
effect upon the health or mentality of
their instruments, and consequently
know nothing of the subsequent deple-
tion caused by emotional strain or
sickly sitters.
I have always found coloured spirit
people amenable to reason. If their
mannerisms are objected to, they do
their work silently and unobtrusively;
but I believe their more intimate
association is in the best interests of all.
If control exhibits a tendency to
noisy volubility, or physical exercises
that are objected to, the conductor
should lay one hand on the forehead
and the other at the base of the brain
and firmly but quietly state the reason
for desiring them to desist. They will
usually comply immediately.
This operation must not be at-
tempted unless oral remonstrance has
failed. If they do not obey after this
effort, the measures recommended for
the treatment of obsession, outlined in
the articles on healing, must be
adopted.
But it is far wiser, usually, not to
interfere at all. Noise and exercise are
not " wicked," but if they terrify timid
souls quieter methods must be enforced.
The coldness and formality de-
manded by psychical researchers is
responsible for a great number of their
abortive seances. Formality and sus-
picion on the part of either medium
or sitter prevent phenomena. It dies
ere it is born because the mental atmo-
sphere checks auric vibrations at the
start.
But a medium's determination to suc-
ceed under all circumstances sometimes
overcomes difficulties in the most un-
expected fashion. We thus discover
that the mind of the medium is the
prime factor after all.
Conditions at one time believed to
be essential are now found to be of
secondary importance. Intense religi-
ous atmospheres are now abandoned in
private meetings.
Clairvoyance is given in electrically
lighted rooms, and materialisation is
photographed by flashlight. These
things were at one time deemed im-
possible, but are now successfully
achieved after persistent effort and co-
operation with the invisible operators.
But the whims of mediums must be
respected. Try them out and judge by
results. Unless their fears are over-
come and their minds quiescent, satis-
factory phenomena are rarely obtained.
The personal factor is not peculiar
to the medium alone. All sitters should
realise their own telepathic effect. As
spirit control is a purely mental opera-
tion, it follows that the thoughts of
interested participants have an effect
also.
The auric mind field is open to im-
pacts from all who are within its
sphere. Thus it is that every thought,
speech, action, state of health or
disease in the sitters help to make or
mar the manifestations.
56
SPECIMENS OF TRANCE
ADDRESSES
SORA SCOTT, better known as
Cora Tappan, was the first
trance medium of note in the
early days of modern Spiritualism to
present indisputable evidence of spirit
control. Her life and experiences form
an unassailable argument for the exist-
ence of discarnate operators. It clearly
illustrated the purpose and power be-
hind the phenomena.
When she came to England in 1875,
the editor of the "Medium and Day-
break" printed a number of her lec-
tures and poems verbatim.
To get a correct perspective, we
must visualise the utter impossibility
for a child reared in a remote American
village to gain the knowledge she im-
parted without any possible means of
preparation. The subjects for ad-
dresses and poems were selected by a
committee chosen from among the
audience.
We are, therefore, compelled to ac-
cept her statements that she was used
as a mouthpiece by mentalities claim-
ing to be disembodied men and women.
Moreover, all her addresses could more
rationally be attributed to the people
claiming authorship than to herself.
THE FIRST CONTROL
In 1852, Cora Scott was seated in
the garden preparing her school lessons
on a slate when she fell into a trance.
On recovery, she found her slate writ-
ten all over in unfamiliar handwriting
in the form of a letter addressed to
"My Dear Sister."
Taking the slate to her mother, she
complained that while she slept some-
one had written all over it. The
mother's surprise may be imagined
when she found it purported to be a
message from her own sister, who
passed into spirit life while both of
them were children.
It addressed her in a familiar way,
recalling scenes of early childhood, and
was correctly signed. She thought it
best to say nothing to the child, but
put the slate carefully away. A day
or two later, while sitting at her
mother's side, the girl again fell into a
trance.
Thinking she had swooned, the
mother tried restoratives, but without
avail. Remembering the previous ex-
perience, she then fetched a slate.
It was soon covered with writing,
the principal message being, " Do not
be afraid. We are spirits of your de-
parted friends. We will not harm
your daughter. We have found a
means of holding converse with the
friends on earth."
Up to that time, Spiritualism had
only been known through the percus-
sive sounds termed " spirit rapping."
Trance speaking was unknown. Cora
Scott's principal guide claimed to be
the son of the Rev. Adin Ballou, foun-
der of a Socialistic colony at Hope-
dale. His teaching was the primitive
Christianity of Jesus, practically ap-
plied.
The son had thus been prepared by
his father's broadmindedness to take
up the newer work immediately on
passing over.
Cora's mediumship started when she
was eleven years old. Spirit people
usually condemn the training of chil-
dren for mediumship until the body is
fully matured; but in this case I pre-
sume they thought it best to permit
the "lips of babes to confound the
wise."
As in the case of Jesus, John the
Baptist, and Biblical prophets, it is
probable she was overshadowed from
birth--a claim common to most of the
great mediums of the world.
Her education was such as might be
expected in a village school. Neigh-
bours and friends thronged the house
night after night to test the new
marvel.
ANOTHER MEDIUM
Her teacher, Mary Fulsome, a very
SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES 57
pious woman, prayed for special guid-
ance as to whether the messengers were
angels or devils. In a few days she
herself developed extraordinary powers
of healing which transformed her into
a fervent missionary, an indisputably
direct answer to prayer.
Afterwards, as Mrs. Hayes, she be-
came famous throughout the state of
Wisconsin as a healer.
Cora passed through phases of auto-
matic writing, clairvoyance, and trance.
One of her earliest controls was a
German physician, who refused his
name, but gave medical diagnosis in
French, German, and Italian, as well
as in the girl's own language.
It was impossible for the child to
have surreptitiously learned the lan-
guages he used or to understand the
prescriptions he gave.
Medical men with whom he talked
said he appeared familiar with every
branch of the pharmacopoeia. He took
the child from house to house, diag-
nosed diseases, prescribed, made suit-
able passes, and then journeyed on to
the next sufferer.
As an instance of her work, the fol-
lowing slight surgical operation will
serve to show how incredible it would
be for a child's unaided mentality to
have acted alone.
OPERATION BY A SPIRIT
A carpenter in the village had the
misfortune to run a splinter under the
nail of the third finger. Two nerves
centre there, making it exceedingly
sensitive.
The finger swelled rapidly, and in-
flammation set in. He employed a local
physician, who, after several days' ex-
cruciating pain, lanced the finger to the
first joint. Some days after, gangrene
set in, and the carpenter begged his
wife to send for Cora.
His wife, attributing the power of a
" holy" spirit to Satan, refused. The
physician also objected.
After the carpenter had experienced
three weeks' intense agony, Cora was
aroused from sleep at midnight by the
spirit physician. She awoke her father,
who accompanied her on a visit to the
suffering man.
On arrival, they found his wife bend-
ing over him. He was in terrible
agony. The physician was also there,
quite unable to relieve his pain, and
recommending amputation.
When Cora, under control, entered
the room, her spirit physician asked
the surgeon for his case of instru-
ments.
The indignation of the medical man
can be imagined. Highly affronted, he
precipitately left the house, declaring
that he refused to be held responsible
if the man was killed. Fortunately, he
left his case of instruments behind.
The eleven-year-old child, while still
entranced, selected the appropriate in-
strument, unbound the hand and arm,
and proceeded to cut the gangrene
from the finger. When this was
cleaned, she bound up the wound, ban-
daged the arm, made passes over the
patient, and left him in a profound
slumber.
She visited him daily for about three
weeks, until he was able to leave his
bed. He never lost the use of his hand
or arm, one finger only remaining a
little stiff afterwards.
WHY OUR CASE GROWS
The world still wonders why Spirit-
ualism grows, despite active and malig-
nant opposition. Presently, Spiritual-
ists will learn to take advantage of the
curative forces thus revealed, and set
up their own spirit-guided hospitals.
Surely there are even now sufficient
moneyed Spiritualists to make the ven-
ture possible?. Hundreds of mediums
are dispensing their gifts in unrecog-
nised ways.
Why not set up hospitals where
every unorthodox method of healing
could be tried out? It would be one
of the greatest educational factors in
the world.
For the present, it would not be wise
to limit the experiment to purely
spiritual forces. Combine bone-setting,
massage, hot-air baths, herbalism, ther-
mal and electric treatment and every
anti-mineral poison system in vogue,
and the orthodoxy of today will become
the heterodoxy of tomorrow.
58 SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES
Nature is replete with simple reme-
dies, but the obstructive money powers
and vested interests will have to be
assailed by indisputable evidence be-
fore public opinion will demand their
removal.
In her thirteenth year, Cora travelled
from village to village, great crowds
meeting her everywhere. What girl of
thirteen, from any community, let
alone a small village, would dare to
stand before such audiences and ex-
pound theological discussions and
metaphysical controversy 7 I venture
to say there are none.
The subjects for the address, selected
by a committee chosen from the audi-
ence, were of such a nature as to call
not only for ability, but for consider-
able mental gymnastics in order to
satisfy the whims and fancies of scep-
tical and hypercritical audiences.
In fifteen years some three thousand
public addresses were given, exclusive
of poems and discussions--a feat im-
possible to one who has first to write
and then to memorise his material.
By no possible "
unconscious cere-
bration" (a theory much in vogue at
one time) could facts in history, science,
philosophy, politics, and discourses on
mind and matter of an academic nature
be conjured up at a moment's notice in
the brain of an unaided individual.
At eleven years of age, on February
10th, 1852, in the Hall of Reform and
Progress, Lake Mill, Wisconsin, Mr.
Ballou controlled Cora. This is part
of his address:
"Thinking this audience is fully
satisfied as to the existence of spirits, I
shall now endeavour to explain to you
in what manner they exist after they
leave the earth.
"I know of three spheres in the
spirit land-one terrestrial, one super-
terrestrial, and another celestial. Each
sphere has seven circles, and these in
turn are divided into seven societies.
"Each of these spheres, circles, and
societies represents a degree of de-
velopment; those in the terrestrial cor-
responding to the development of the
earth's inhabitants.
" For instance, any person on earth
whose development would correspond
to or fit him for the first circle of the
terrestrial sphere, would enter that
circle on leaving the earthly form.
PROGRESSION THE LAW
"But a person on earth can only
ascend to the sixth circle because,
should he attain to the development of
the seventh, he or she could not remain
upon the earth nor in the terrestrial
sphere . . . because the spirit then
throws off its grosser elements and
acquires a more celestial form.
"No pain or sickness accompanies
such changes in our world. You per-
ceive by these remarks that progres-
sion is a law governing all spirits,
whether embodied or disembodied.
There is no retrogression.
" The spheres or circles referred to
are states or conditions of mind. The
darkness that now pervades earthly
minds concerning life in the spirit
world will soon be swept away by this
open communion.
"Instead of fear in your worship
of God, you will know only love, for
love and wisdom are the attributes of
God."
For a child of eleven to give ad-
dresses of this kind without a moment's
preparation needs a better explanation
than " subconscious activity."
I extract the above and the follow-
ing passages from a trance address
delivered by Cora Tappan, on Decem-
ber 3rd, 1873, at Lawson's Rooms,
Gower Street, London.
"Among the Persian magicians
there was the faculty of rendering
this double or other self visible at
great distances, and while it unques-
tionably originated from genuine
mediumship, or spirit power, the laws
were not understood."
" They also possessed the power of
rendering the physical body invisible.
This is the reverse law of the appari-
tion of the double, and is simply the
result of surrounding the physical body
with a certain dense aura by gesticu-
lation and rapidity of motion common
to workers of wonders among these
ancient people. These manipulations or
SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES 59
gestures correspond to those that are
now sometimes used by mediums.
" Now, it has been observed in many
seances for physical manifestations,
that the form produced to represent
the spirit sometimes resembles in a
most provoking manner the- form of
the medium. . . . This has led to a
suspicion of fraud.
UNFOUNDED SUSPICION
" But it may very easily occur with-
out supposing it to be the spirit of the
medium or a fraudulent manifestation.
Suppose a spirit desires to materialise
a form to make itself visible and pro-
duce a tangible touch, the most natural
form to appear would be that resemb-
ling the medium, because from every
part of the medium's body goes out an
emanation.
" That emanation, when it takes
shape, will naturally resemble the form
of the person from whom it arises, just
as a shadow thrown upon the ground
by rays of light reflect the same pro-
portions, the same outline, and the
same form. It could not be otherwise;
and thus the spiritual form would in-
deed represent the same figure.
" You know that if there is a scar
upon the body-although the atoms
change-each succeeding particle as-
sumes the form of that scar. It is
also said that the human body does
not contain, after seven years, any one
of the particles it previously contained.
BUILDING ON THE MEDIUM
" So, when the spirit, acting upon
the atomic particles or elements that
emanate from a medium's body, de-
sires to produce a form, the most
natural form the elements assume is
that of the form to which they have
just been united.
" Hence the spirit, for the first or
even the twentieth experiment, may
reasonably be expected to produce a
form resembling that of the medium.
As the power grows stronger and more
independent of the direct personal
aura of the sensitive, this resemblance
becomes less and less."
The following address was given by
Cora Tappan, under the control of
Benjamin Franklin, on June 12th,
1875 :
"It is broadly stated by the world
of Science that a physical substance
cannot be moved without known ex-
ternal contact. The substance of
which the body is composed is
material; it moves in obedience to the
human will; no scientific analysis, save
that which has been revealed by
psycho-spiritual intelligence, has ever
unfolded to the world how the spirit
of Man governs it, and causes the
material body to move in defiance of
the propositions of Science ....
"Positive and negative electricity
contacts a higher or psycho-spiritual
force on which the mind acts, so that
by acting upon a more etherealised
atmosphere than that of the earth, the
spirit moves its own or other ponder-
able bodies....
"The first proposition that I have
to lay down to you tonight is that the
polarity of the atoms constitutes not
only the physical and organic struc-
ture of the earth, but the physical and
organic structure of the human system.
" Where electricity is thrown off at
right angles during the night, so this
electric force is thrown off from the
human system, in precisely the same
manner, with all due allowance for
the different positions and varied con-
ditions of the human body.
" Hence it is that every human body
is either electric or magnetic at alter-
nate periods of the day or night, and
that the force that is denominated
electricity or magnetism is the force
by which the mind of Man governs the
body, causes contact with outward
creation, and produces physical effects.
"This force, extended to all the in-
finitesimal atoms that lie between
Man's outer organism and the world
which is denominated the world of
mind, is uniform in action, governed
by the same laws, amenable to the
same forces, and capable of develop-
ment in the production of power.
THE SUPERIOR POWER
"Hence, when it is discovered that
atoms constituting the earth's atmo-
sphere are more or less charged with
this force of positive and negative
60 SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES
electricity, and a contravening force to
destroy that effect, it proves that,
beyond the usual causes and currents
of electricity or magnetic life, there
is another and superior power.
"For the sake of convenience, I
denominate that higher force the
psycho-spiritual force. It belongs not
to the disembodied mind alone, but to
embodied minds also.
"Whoever has been brought to this
room tonight by inclination, reason,
judgment, aspiration, or curiosity, has
been brought by a process of his or
her individual mind acting through
this psychological power upon the
nervous system, and showing indepen-
dence of the outward atmosphere and
the laws of external organic life. A
disembodied spirit is here by the same
process.
" It is possible for you, in defiance
of the laws of inertia that control solid
matter, to bring your physical
organism constructed with substance
and solid matter in obedience to this
psycho-dynamic power.
"It is also possible for a mind dis-
embodied-or any number of them-
to assemble in this room through the
same law, and, upon the atoms of the
same atmosphere surrounding you, by
the same process, move upon your
minds, give utterance to these words,
and in various ways reach the
organism of your outer bodies, and
therefore reach your spirits.
"As I have stated, the atmosphere
is composed of polarised atoms, each
one of which obeys the laws of mag-
netic or electric control. The spiritual
atmosphere, in exactly the same man-
ner, but with an infinitely finer struc-
ture, and composed of infinitesimally
finer substances, obeys the law of
spiritual and magnetic control.
THE RARER LAW
"Upon this finer atmosphere, and in
obedience to this rarer law, the minds
of all intelligent human beings act,
whether embodied or disembodied. It
is no more a miracle that a disem-
bodied spirit should do so, since the
same process enables both to produce
the same result . . .
"For every ultimate physical atom I
can show you a correlative spiritual
force; for every physical result I can
show you a correlative physical cause;
for every manifestation in the world
of matter, I can show you a manifesta-
tion or cause in the world of spirit,
not defined by Science, but capable of
being as well understood.
"The atoms that compose the atmo-
sphere of this room are invisible to
every one of you. Decimal particles
which make up all the vitality which
you at present inhale are impalpable,
yet little by little they contribute to the
building up of the physical structure.
Without them, you are a dead mass of
clay.
MENTAL OXYGEN
"The spiritual atoms which lie be-
hind these are as invaluable and as
necessary to your spiritual and
physical life as the physical atoms. If
your body requires oxygen in a high
state of refinement in the atmosphere
to sustain physical life, so do your
minds require thought in a high state
of refinement, or there is death to your
mental and spiritual structure.
" The elements which feed this men-
tal and spiritual structure we call the
'oxygen of the soul.'
"When, one hundred years ago, Dr.
Priestley was persecuted, and dis-
covered the element of oxygen in the
external atmosphere, he found also that
other elenent of spiritual freedom,
that was the chief cause of his per-
secution,
"Today, we announce the oxygen of
the spiritual atmosphere, which is the
same psycho-dynamic force that is de-
stined to play as important a part in
the world of scientific investigation in
the future as oxygen, with its various
combinations, bears today.
"This world of spiritual science
from gradation to gradation, meets
your outer world more than halfway,
and moves upon the atmosphere that
surrounds your minds, producing
vibrations, impressions, thoughts,
aspirations, prayers, and the uplifting
of all that enables man to rise above
the mere brute functions of existence
in life. . ..
SPECIMENS OF TRANCE ADDRESSES 61
" There is now an infinite number
of messengers waiting upon the wings
of thought for an avenue or open door-
way whereby they can hold converse
with human beings; and the message
that they bear on the freighted burden
of their thought is that in mind, as in
matter, there is no death.
"In the world of spirit, as in the
world of external force, there is.no
annihilation; every ultimate principle
and every ultimate atom in the uni-
verse is immaterial; and the soul of
man is not alone a mockery in creation.
" The message which they bear is
that, from the highest sphere of which
spirits have knowledge, to the lowest
child of earth, there is a connecting
link of inspiration and control, which,
even in dungeon cell, or chains of per-
jury or vice, give-hope to the soul,
uplifting it from the slough of de-
spond to the region of hope, and
promise, and love."
--
--
62'
CONCLUSIONS
THE following is extracted from an
address delivered on December
10th, 1873 :
"It is true that electricity does not
usually form the means whereby
spirits produce sounds. In all external
manifestations there are three causes
for the phenomena produced.
" One of these is electrical, in the
manifestation of which the spirit
employs the electrical forces constantly
given off from the body.
" It is asserted that the human body
generates electricity of a finer quality
than that employed in the usual elec-
trical manifestations, or the electric
telegraph. That this element is elec-
tricity is proven by the fact that it
affects metallic substances, and pro-
duces ignition of susceptible gases.
TRY THIS EXPERIMENT
" For instance, the gas in this room
can be ignited by the electricity of the
human body. You can at any time try
the experiment by walking up and
down to generate the electricity in
your body and making a friend turn on
the gas for you.
"By rubbing your feet, on which
you have indiarubber soles, upon the
carpet, a larger quantity of electricity
will be produced. After pacing round
the room half a dozen times, touch the
gas and it will probably ignite.
"You will find persons possessing
this power who can light the gas every
time. This is one of the occult forces
in the human body."
(Two or three families in America,
around Los Angeles, assure me this is
now a familiar trick. The power
seems peculiar to localities no less than
individuals. One person in Scotland has
reported success. Those who succeed
should be able to develop table-rapping
and definite forms of physical medium-
ship.)
"Now this, when employed by the
spiritual powers, will produce certain
sounds, but they are also produced by
the presence of nitrogen and carbonic
acid and the compression of the atmo-
sphere-an effect brought about by the
combination of the two gases."
(Note: whenever you can discover.
the raw materials used by spirit oper-
ators, it would be advisable to obtain
them and place them in the seance
room when practicable. It might save
a great amount of time in the produc-
tion of manifestations and eventually
lead to getting many manifestations
without mediums.)
"You have all heard of drops of
water falling on the faces of people
at seances. These result from the con-
densation of the atmosphere which
produces the oxygen and the hydrogen.
"The second form is by atomic
evolution, whereby atoms are made to
revolve with great rapidity, and, by
producing a vacuum, cause a con-
cussion.
"This atomic evolution you cannot
see, because you cannot see the infini-
tesimal particles, but the presence of
a spirit can affect these atoms and
produce the forms that are sometimes
seen by every person present at a
seance.
" There is a third element, phos-
phorus. It is well known that all
bodies in a high state of organisation
possess this ingredient.
"The phosphate that is taken on and
generated in the brain is the combina-
tion of that element with another,
which in its nature is so uniformly
connected with thought that it is
scarcely possible to separate them. ...
Of course, you cannot see a thought,
but phosphorescent effects can be seen.
"This intermediate product, which
is the result of phosphates and of the
nervous force of the brain, produces
a certain amount of power and volition
that in themselves constitute Mind.
This is the subtle element upon which
spirits often act.
" Certain persons give out electricity,
while others give out phosphoric lights
or phosphorus. These the spirits can
control and, under proper conditions,
produce phosphoric or electric lights.
" The electrical lights produce sound,
CONCLUSIONS 6 63
while phosphoric lights are accom-
panied by no sounds and are tranquil
in their appearance.
"If one medium possesses phos-
phoric and another the electrical force,
they destroy each other's influence.
Someone then wonders why, with two
such powerful mediums present, no
manifestations are gained.
IMPORTANCE OF OZONE
"The fact is that the two forces
destroy each other and the spirit has
nothing whereon to act. If you knew
of what your bodies were composed,
you would organise spirit circles in
such a manner as to produce very
strong manifestations.
" If the presence of carbonic acid gas
is too strong, you could introduce an-
other element with very little trouble
that does not destroy the conditions like
raw oxygen. That element is ozone.'
" Ozone may be produced from the
three following elements: peroxide of
manganese, permanganate of potash,
and oxalic acid in equal portions.
Combine these, then take two tea-
spounfuls of the mixture and pour over
it, every two hours, about one tea-
spoonful of water: it will throw off
about enough ozone to make the
atmosphere quite pure . . .
"In the sickroom, where too much
ozone would induce coughing, the above
quantity would be quite sufficient to
purify the atmosphere without pro-
ducing evil results. In the seance, for
the sake of supplying the lungs with
pure air, you might introduce ozone
thus made with very little trouble and
expense. ...
"Oftentimes the disease of your
bodies and the lassitude of your
nervous systems are the effect of im-
pure air.
" When you remember that you
often produce an atmosphere impos-
sible for a spiritual being to act upon,
and consider that from your bodies
an emanation is constantly coming off
proportionate to the food you eat and
the drink you imbibe, and that an
emanation is always proceeding from
your brain in proportion to your
thoughts, you will understand that the
spiritual atmosphere in this room is as
dense as the physical tonight." (The
room was overcrowded.)
" This being the case, how difficult
it must be for spirits to approach
you with anything like a palpable
presence. Then, when you consider the
still more subtle element of which
thought is composed, or of which your
spirits must be formed, you will
almost wonder there is any communica-
tion at all. ...
" Your bodies are so afflicted, your
brains so confused, and the infirmities
of the flesh weigh so heavily upon you,
that you do not present to your friends
a fair face.
"These are untoward conditions; but
by studying these laws you can remedy
them, and by knowing other spiritual
laws you can invite and facilitate the
conditions whereby spirits manifest
their presence.
EFFECT OF ALTITUDE.
"For manifestations with a person
of electrical temperament, localities at
high altitudes are advisable, but if your
manifestations are of a phosphoric
kind, low altitudes and places border-
ing on fresh-water streams where car-
bonic acid is thrown off would facili-
tate experiments.
" True Science is never at variance
with true Religion. The science is of
the spirit, for there is underlying
every principle in nature, and every
atom in matter, the Pre-eminent Spirit
whose life shapes the atom and causes
it to evolve throughout the centuries
forms of beauty and life.
" Spirit is everything. Matter is the
shape, the external form, the clothing,
the servant of the soul; while bound-
less in its capacity and infinite in its
power, the spirit is allied to the God! "
The attention of readers is drawn
to the high tone and serious implica-
tions invariably introduced by cultured
controls.
Contrast these with thel illogical
arguments of our opponents, and it
becomes immediately apparent that
they have no case.
It is to be hoped that pioneer
writers on Spiritualism will be rescued
Ti- s CONCLUSIONS
from oblivion. They usually adopted
a severely scientific and critical attitude
which appealed to reason no less than
the noblest instincts of the soul.
They deserve a better fate than sub-
mergence under the flood of sensational
literature which has followed in their
track.
If Spiritualism is true, then what of
it?-
We have seen that foreign languages
were clearly and grammatically spoken
by Cora Tappan, a child eleven years of
age, who could by no means have sur-
reptitiously learned them, and that the
identity of the German physician who
controlled her body was as well niarked
as her own.
Foreign languages can only be
spoken by a native unless tutors in-
struct us.
In the articles on the " direct voice,"
on the testimony of one of the greatest
living linguists of our time, we find
Confucius corrects a 2,400 years old
error. In the articles on telepathy, I
gave illustrations of spirit messages
transmitted to groups of people hun-
dreds of miles apart.
The messages were sometimes split
up and conveyed in sections to different
people, who could not make sense of
them until they compared notes. Parts
of the messages were transformed and
delivered in different languages.
In the articles on physical phe-
nomena, we find the spirit Walter
Stinson producing finger-print evi-
dence testified to by New York's finger-
print expert, that would be sufficient to
hang a murderer on trial.
BEHIND OUR PHENOMENA
All types of phenomena support the
statement that independent mentalities
are responsible for its production.
The claim that their inspirers once
lived in physical bodies like ours is
theirs, not the mere assumption of
Spiritualists. It is an obvious state-
ment of fact, and the only one that
covers the ground satisfactorily.
Why present stupid theories merely
for the purpose of discrediting the
messages or the messengers?
It is true that charlatans and sim-
pletons obscure the issues, that sub-
consceous activity must be allowed for
and other factors require careful scru-
tiny. But these do not affect the main
issue
What is its purpose? Truth is ever
simple, and carries its own way sooner
or later, to the dismay of its traducers.
Corroboration comes from all over the
world. Their message is ever the
same :
" We are trying to break down Man's
Godless materialism and turn their
faces towards the light of Truth,. for
Truth is God in manifestation.
"We want earth's children to awaken
from childish follies and selfish an-
tagonisms that create hell upon earth
and fill the hells of the after life with
remorse. True progress lies in mutual
helpfulness.
"Be warned by our experiences:
cease to do evil; learn to do good."
THE " HOLY COMFORTER "
It is the Nazarene's message empha-
sised in a thousand different ways. The
great leaders of the past are still lead-
ing. They heal the sick, they exhort
to clean and useful lives, they cast out
undeveloped spirits, remove the terror
of death, and prove their claim to be
"Holy Comforters " in every sense of
the words.
But scientists, immersed in their
materialism, refuse even to glance at
the mountainous evidence piled up.
My illustrations are but a tithe
among teeming, myriads. But Spirit-
ualists are dismissed with a curt a
priori theory calculated to crush both
them and their evidence.
It is subconscious activity. It
may even foreshadow a higher evolu-
tion of the physical body; but spirits
- Pshaw! Science has no time to
waste upon such a preposterous fal-
lacy, and so the greatintellects immerse
themselves once more in absorbing
studies relating to high explosives, flies
and beetles!
Meantime, Rachael cannot be com-
forted; the widow and the orphan
weep; selfish commercialism reigns
supreme, and the greatest of all sol-
vents for sorrow remains unused.
65
[Advt.
"AUROSPECS "
MEANS
Kilner Screens Perfected
The late Dr. W. J. Kilner, B.A., M.B. (Cantab),
M.R.C.P., etc., was the medical electrician at St. Thomas's
Hospital, London. He regularly used the dicyanine screen
to diagnose disease.
His book, " The Human Atmosphere," created a sensa-
tion, because it means that he has discovered a mechanical
method of adjusting the focal range of the eye so that pre-
viously invisible forces can be seen. This applies particularly
to the aura, which is usually shown by artists as a halo
around the heads of saints. He also claimed to see an etheric
body otherwise known as the spiritual body or psychic
organism.
HE STATES THAT 95 PER CENT. CAN SEE THE AURA.
Modern Clairvoyants, who diagnose disease, habitually
see the aura, but believe they are specially favoured.
IN OTHER WORDS, Dr. Kilner asserts that NINETY-FIVE
PEOPLE out of EVERY HUNDRED can be
MADE CLAIRVOYANT.
His experiments also proved that regular use of Dicyanine
strengthens the sight of presbyopic people.
WHAT KILNER SAW, OTHERS MAY SEE.
Some are able to see the aura immediately; others
develop the power gradually by accustoming their eyes to
a newer focal range by the steady, regular use of " Auro-
specs."
The original screen was formed from optically perfect
glasses cemented together, enclosing a specially compounded
solution of alcoholised dicyanine. The great expense of this
combination-two to four guineas being the usual charge-
prohibited general use, and led to substitution of coloured
water, coloured glass, and gelatines, which, being quite use-
less for the purpose, brought ridicule upon the subject. To
guard against this deception, we have registered the word
" AUROSPECS,"
and provisionally patented a combination which' perfects Dr.
Kilner's formula, and so materially reduces the cost, that
it is now possible to become a seer yourself at the price
usually paid for one seance with a professional clairvoyant.
ONE GUINEA ONLY.
66
Dr. Kilner's "HUMAN ATMOSPHERE," post free 10/6.
As Dr. Kilner's statements are somewhat misleading to
the uninitiated, and so much misconception exists on the
subject, we have hitherto refused to sell " AUROSPECS"
unless purchasers have read his book AND our lessons on
clairvoyance and trance, but as the "Psychic News"
booklets contain sufficient details for Spiritualists and
enquirers we make the following offer to our readers:-
To those who have read "The Human Aura and How
to see it," post free 7d., which contains instructions for the
use of "Aurospecs,"
" AUROSPECS " WILL BE FORWARDED POST FREE
for ONE GUINEA.
Refills of dicyanine, 5/- per pair, plus postage.
" CLAIRVOYANCE AND ITS DEVELOPMENT,"
5/- (typescript).
"KILNASCRENE"
DEVELOPS
CLAIRVOYANCE
After long research we are able now to announce the
introduction of a cheap substitute for "Aurospecs." It can
be used during diagnosis and delineations, or, like Aurospecs
to sensitize the optic nerve before the seance.
"KILNASCRENE" goggles are the nearest possible
facsimile in glass to Dr. Kilner's famous dicyanine screens.
They possess almost identical spectroscopic markings and
therefore produce practically the same result.
Sent post free in Great Britain for 10/- with full instruc-
tions for use. Postage extra to foreign countries. Inter-
national Money Orders should be made payable to H.
Boddington, Director of the London Psychic Educational
Centre, 17, Ashmere Grove, Acre Lane, London, S.W.2.
87
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS
The following extracts from unsolicited testimonials tell
their own story. There was no sitting for development.
These results came almost immediately:--
From A. L. M. Cheshire: " I thank you for 'Aurospecs '
received. I can see the aura very distinctly with the 'Auro-
specs' on. I find that on looking through them at daylight,
if the hand is held up to the window, after about three
minutes it appears transparent (X-ray effect) and this is an
indication that your eyes are sensitised. A very great deal
depends upon the correct lighting."
From D. E. C., Southampton: " On looking through the
window everything appeared as if covered with snow. Fin-
gers were illuminated and flesh disappeared; only bones were
visible. A most interesting experience."
Her sister adds experience as follows: " From the left
hand a white mist, stretching to the right about eight inches,
while in the left hand I saw a heliotrope-coloured ball of
light. Hands kept disappearing and re-appearing. Sparks
showed from the top of the left hand." The mother's ex-
perience was corroborative.
From Miss E. T., Wimbledon: "When using 'Auro-
specs,' the first colour my eyes registered was a faint green,
which enveloped most objects, but the lighter tones, i.e.,
the painted side of a house, garden paths, seemed intensified,
giving appearance of snow. When placing my hands in
front of the screen against the cabinet, sparks ascended
from the finger tips, also a lightish grey mist outlined and
elongated the fingers a distance of about 6 inches. Sparks
were also seen when directing finger tips towards the wrist.
The bones of the hands were more clearly revealed, also dark
patches over the hands. Inside the cabinet the sparks con-
tinued, and the mist around the fingers appeared more
dense."
Dr. Drysdale Anderson, whose interesting article on the
aura appeared on Mar. 14th, 1930, in the Daily Chronicle,
wrote us on September 19th, 1929: " You may be interested
to know that both my wife and self can make out the aura
(through the glasses), but it appeared to be only some three
inches thick."
Miss N. Booth, of Birkenhead, wrote on August 14th,
1930: " . . . I see my hands quite transparent. I can see
right through them . . . and I see a white mist with a faint
blue tinge ... a grey with a lot of little sharp points like
lights. ... The other day, after I had looked at the light
68
and had turned round to inspect my hand, I seemed to see
so clearly from the temples of my head, a pinky gold light
right round my own body and it looked like those low elec-
tric-heater bulbs lit up. . . This proves that (the colour of)
the aura changes. And now when I take my class on Tues-
days (I am a circle leader) I see the aura round some of
the sitters .... I saw the other evening a purple colour
right round a lady after I had the 'specs' on and come
downstairs. . . . I feel they are helping me, and certainly
are helping my eyesight ... my eyes are much stronger
now and do not ache with strain as they used to do.:"
From Miss Edna May Jones, Canada, April 22nd, 1931:
" Dear Sir, about a year ago I purchased ' Aurospecs' from
you. . . . I have had great success in being enabled to see
the emanations of auras surrounding articles and proceeding
from them in streams, including flowers, metals, finger-tips,
etc. A friend of mine, a professor of psychology, wishes
to borrow them as a help in convincing his students of the
actual existence of the aura . . . A little of the liquid has
evaporated; can I have this renewed ?"
AUROSPECS are not sold to any agents or to trade
houses because heat in course of time evaporates the pure
alcohol essential to Dr. Kilner's formula. We refill the
glasses at five shillings a pair or send the latest design in
lenses in exchange if the complete original set is sent to us
with ten shillings and sixpence, plus registration costs in
both cases.
Before placing " Aurospecs " on the market we offered
to let any member of the London Spiritualist Alliance try
them out, free of cost. The following is a report from Mrs.
L. M. S.:-
" Haze seen extending about 2 inches all around hands
when looked at through the glasses, and in bright daylight
with back to window. Also rays joining fingers of the two
hands when pointed towards each other. Inside the cabinet,
without glasses, the rays joining fingers were seen, but so
faintly that they may have been due to imagination."
Others report seeing the electricity in the atmosphere on
exceptionally bright days, and the radiations from flowers
both by moonlight and sunlight.
To benefit Societies' funds we have given several demon-
strations. The success varied from 75 to 100 per cent.
DR. KILNER DIAGNOSED DISEASE BY NOTING
VARIATIONS IN THE APPEARANCE OF THE AURA.
