{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__blavatsky_barker___complete_works_v3.pdf","mytitle":"Complete Works V3","mylang":"de"}
THE
COMPLETE WORKS OF
H. P. BLAVATSKY
Edited by
A. TREVOR BARKER
VOL. Ill
1881-1882
LONDON: RIDER & CO.
PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E.C.
Made and Printed In Great Britain at
The Mayflower Press, Plymouth. William Brendon & Son, Ltd.
•933
8P«/
fit
)°l33
V. 3
PREFACE
For many years students of the teachings of H. P. Blavatsky have
looked forward to the re-publication of her works in one uniform
Edition. The earlier volumes of the present series contain every
article that H. P. B. is known to have contributed to newspapers
and periodicals, Theosophical and otherwise, in English, French,
Russian or Italian, with, of course, full translations of the foreign
languages.
The material has been arranged in chronological order according
to the date of original publication from 1874 onward, thus adding
greatly to the historical value by enabling Theosophical students to
trace the gradual unfolding of H. P. B.'s Mission from her first
contact with the Spiritualists in America to the day of her death
in 1891.
In the majority of cases, and unless otherwise stated, the tran
scription has been made verbatim et literatim direct from the originals.
Peculiarities of literary style, and the spelling of proper names, and
Sanscrit and technical terms, have been left unaltered. No attempt
has been made, therefore, to introduce a uniformity and consistency
in these particulars, which the author's writings as originally pub
lished did not possess. On the other hand, obvious typographical
errors have been corrected.
It will be observed that whilst the majority of the articles are
signed by H. P. Blavatsky, or by her under one of her known pen
names, there are also quite a number of unsigned articles, most of
which were originally published in The Theosophist, a magazine
which she herself founded and edited.
Although the Editor himself believes that the unsigned articles
which have been included in this volume came from the pen of
H. P. Blavatsky, nevertheless he considers it would be inconsistent
with his duty if he did not point out to the reader, that he can offer
no absolutely irrefutable proof of their authenticity. He can only
say that they have been generally assumed by competent students
to have come from H. P. B.'s pen ; not only because they, as a rule,
bear the characteristic stamp of her remarkable literary style, with
its well-known idiosyncrasies of expression and use of foreign idioms,
etc., but also because definite references have been found to certain
of these articles in various Theosophical books, memoirs and
7
M675782
8 PREFACE
pamphlets of the early times, showing them to have been written by
H. P. B. In other cases there may possibly be traces of authorship
by someone other than H. P. B., but nevertheless written under her
inspiration, and usually showing clear evidence of her correcting and
editing pen. Such material, for the strong reasons of almost certain
authenticity just mentioned, has been included.
It should be understood that throughout this volume all particulars
which appear within square brackets have been added by the Editor
unless otherwise stated ; occasionally a missing word within square
brackets has been added to a sentence where the meaning would not
be clear without it.
All footnotes are part of the articles as originally published unless
within square brackets and signed
"
Ed.", in which case they have
been added by the Editor.
Obviously the Editor in very many cases could not himself see the
original publications and documents from which these articles were
transcribed ; of necessity he has relied upon a number of collabor
ators to make transcriptions, which are as accurate as they knew
how to make them.
The consideration of the reader is therefore asked if any error of
transcription be discovered, remembering that the work has been
done by the Editor and his collaborators in good faith as a labour of
love, and a lasting tribute to the memory of H. P. Blavatsky.
A. TREVOR BARKER
CONTENTS
Date of original
publication Pagat
A Psychic Warning June 1881 13
Apollonius Tyaneus ,, 15
Lamas and Druses „ 16
Native Astrologers ,, 27
Stars and Numbers ,, 28
" Praise Him with the Timbrel and Dance
"
„ 36
A Posthumous Publication July 188 1 39
Footnotes to "A Suicide's After-State" ,, 41
Footnotes to
" A Letter from Soorb-O Vaness
" ,, 42
Footnotes to "The Five-Pointed Star" ,, 43
A Reply to Our Critics ,, 45
Science, Phenomena and the Press ,, 49
The Evidence of Science ,, 53
The Scientific Basis of Spiritualism ,, 58
Footnotes to
" The Work of the Theosophical
Societies" „ 59
Editor's Note to "The Hindu Sabha
"
„ 60
Stone-Showers Aug. 188 1 61
The Five-Pointed Star ,, 64
Miscellaneous Notes ,, 67
The British Theosophical Society ,, 71
Madame Blavatsky on
" The Himalayan Brothers
"
72
Footnotes to
" Iamblichos : A Treatise on the
Mysteries" Sept. 1881 77
"The Claims of Occultism" „ 78
Miracles ,, 81
Comments on "Strange Apparitions" ,, 87
Miscellaneous Notes ,, 89
Footnotes to
" The New Dispensation Dissected Oct. 1881 89
Stray Thoughts on Death and Satan ,, 90
Fragments of Occult Truth, No. I „ 98
„
,
„ ,, „ No. II March 1882 m
No. Ill Sept. 1882 120
9
io CONTENTS
Date of original
publication Pages
Karma July 1883 142
Miscellaneous Notes Oct. 1881 145
Footnotes to
" Who are the Aryas and the
Buddhists ?
"
„ 146
Current Events 147
The Theosophist and Pandit Shraddha Ram ,, 148
The Six-Pointed and Five-Pointed Stars Nov. 1881 152
Footnotes to
" The Twelve Signs of the Zodiac
" ,, 160
The Bright Spot of Light „ 162
Footnote to
" Advice from a Swami
"
„ 163
Dayanand Saraswali and his Followers ,, 164
Western "Adepts" and Eastern Theosophists ,, 165
Spiritualism and the Christian Churches Dec. 1881 173
Footnote to
" The Church Congress and
Spiritualism" ,, 175
Superstition „ 175
The Theosophist and Hindu Pantheism ,, 181
Trance Mediums and "Historical" Visions „ 184
" We will not Quarrel but simply Argue
" ,, 188
What is a
" Fact
" ? ,, 190
Hazy Notions ,, 193
Weird Phenomena ,, 196
Is Creation Possible for Man ? „ 197
Editor's Note to "The Theosophists" „ 200
Miscellaneous Notes ,, 203
" The Knight without Reproach or Fear
" ,, 204
A Letter from Madame Blavatsky „ 206
Is it "
Idle to Argue Further" ? Jan. 1882 206
Esoteric Axioms and Spiritual Speculations ,, 210
Footnotes to
" The Aryan-Arhat Esoteric Tenets
on the Sevenfold Principle in Man
"
„ 213
Footnotes to
" Lakshmibai
" ,, 230
Dream-Land and Somnambulism ,, 232
Are Dreams but Idle Visions ? ,, 236
A Personal Explanation „ 240
Spiritualism and Occult Truth Feb. 1882 246
Nature-Spirits and Elementals ,, 253
In Desperate Straits ,, 255
Footnote to "The Pisacha-Dancers
" ,, 258
Footnote to
" A Flash of Light upon Occult
Freemasonry
" ,, 259
A Conjuror ^among the Spiritualsts ,, 259
CONTENTS ii
Date of original
publication Pages
Madame Blavatsky's Reply to Mr. Joseph Cook Feb. 1882 260
A Needed Explanation March 1882 262
The Hermetic Brethren ,, 263
Buddhist Morals ,, 265
Reincarnations in Tibet ,, 267
Koot-Hoomi in Australia ,, 274
Correct Definitions and Incorrect Insinuations 275
Strange Manifestations ,, 278
Whipped into Admission ,, 279
The Rast Goftar in Hot Water ., 282
Doomed I ,. 282
Answers to Correspondents „ 288
The Present Great Need of a Metaphysico-Spiritual
Vocabulary April 1882 294
Masons and Jesuits ,, 297
Spirit-Photographs „ 301
The Arja ,, 306
A Theological Snob ,, 308
Another "Orthodox" Prosecution I ,, 310
" A Faithful
'
Witness
'
will not Lie
" ,, 314
Mr. William Eglinton's Departure from India ,, 319
Milk for Babes and Strong Meat for Men ,, 322
The Philosophic Inquirer „ 325
The Theosophical Society and Swami Dayanand ,, 326
A "Light" Shining in Darkness May 1882 327
Footnotes to The Philosophy of Spirit ,, 329
Footnote to
"
Mediums and Yogis
" ,, 331
"More Anecdotes of Hassan Khan Djinni" ,, 332
Footnote to
"
Theosophy during the First Phase
of Modern Philosophy
" ,, 333
Psyche „ 333
Pert Questions and Plain Answers ,, 334
Hindu Theism June 1882 336
" A Friend in Need, a Friend Indeed
" ,, 338
The Magic of Science „ 339
Index 341
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF
H. P. BLAVATSKY
A PSYCHIC WARNING
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 187-188.]
[Mr. A. Constantine of Agra wrote to the Editor asking for en
lightenment as to the following psychic phenomenon : he and a very
close and intimate friend were employed in the same Government
office. They had arranged to go together during the next holiday
for a visit to Meerut ; but at the last moment the friend backed out
on the ground that he had, for health reasons, to take his family to
Rambagh (a sanitarium on the other side of Agra). On parting the
friend shook hands with Mr. Constantine and again expressed his
regret, saying that though absent in body, he would be present with
him in thought and spirit. Mr. Constantine duly went to Meerut ;
but on the morning of the third day of his stay there, a curious
sensation came suddenly over him ; he felt dull and melancholy, and
told his brother-in-law, at whose house he was staying, that he must
return to Agra immediately. In spite of the remonstrances of his
relatives, his urge to return made him insist on going straight home,
to find on arriving at Agra, that his friend had died suddenly at
Rambagh that very morning, about the time when the impulse to
return had first seized him.]
Note by the Editor. —No need of attributing the above
"
warning
"
to anything supernatural. Many and varied are the psychic phenom
ena in life, which unintentionally or otherwise are either attributed
to the agency of disembodied
"
spirits
" or entirely and intentionally
ignored. By saying this we do not intend at all depriving the
spiritual theory of its raison d'etre. But beside that theory there
exist other manifestations of the same psychic force in man's daily
life, which is generally disregarded or erroneously looked upon as
a result of simple chance or coincidence, for the only reason that we
are unable to forthwith assign for it a logical and comprehensive
cause though the manifestations undoubtedly bear the impress of a
13
14 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
scientific character, evidently belonging, as they do, to that class
of psycho-physiological phenomena which, even men of great
scientific attainments and such specialists as Dr. Carpenter are now
busying themselves with. The cause for this particular phenomenon
is to be sought in the occult (yet no less undeniable) influence
exercised by the active will of one man over the will of another man
whenever the will of the latter is surprised in a moment of rest or
a state of passiveness. We speak now of presentiments. Were every
person to pay close attention —in an experimental and scientific
spirit, of course —to his daily action and watch his thoughts, conver
sation and resultant acts, and carefully analyse these, omitting no
details, trifling as they might appear to him, then would he find for
most of these actions and thoughts coinciding reasons based upon
mutual psychic influence between the embodied intelligences.
Several instances, more or less familiar to everyone through
personal experience, might be here adduced. We will give but two.
Two friends or even simple acquaintances are separated for years.
Suddenly one of them—he who remained at home and who may have
never thought of the absent person for years, thinks of that indi
vidual. He remembers him without any possible cause or reason,
and the long-forgotten image sweeping through the silent corridors
of memory brings it before his eyes as vividly as if he were there.
A few minutes after that, an hour perhaps, that absent person pays
the other an unexpected visit. Another instance —A lends to B a book.
B having read it and laid it aside thinks no more of it, though A
requested him to return the work immediately after perusal. Days,
perhaps months after that, B's thought occupied with important
business, suddenly reverts to the book, and he remembers his
neglect. Mechanically he leaves his place and stepping to his
library gets it out, thinking to send it back without fail this once.
At the same moment, the door opens, A enters, telling that he had
come purposely to fetch his book, as he needed it. Coincidence ?
Not at all. In the first case it was the thought of the traveller,
which, as he had decided upon visiting an old friend or acquaintance,
was concentrated upon the other man, and that thought by its very
activity proved energetic enough to overpower the then passive
thought of the other. The same explanation stands good in the
case of A and B. Mr. Constantine may argue,
" my late friend's
thought could not influence mine since he was already dead, when I
was being irresistibly drawn to Agra." Our answer is ready. Did
not the warmest friendship exist between the writer and the
deceased ? Had not the latter promised to be with him in " thought
and spirit ?
" And that leads to the positive inference that his
thought was strongly preoccupied before his death, with him whom
he had unintentionally disappointed. Sudden as may have been
APOLLONIUS TYANEUS 15
that death, thought is instantaneous and more rapid still. Nay,
it surely was a hundredfold intensified at the moment of death.
Thought is the last thing that dies or rather fades out in the human
brain of a dying person, and thought, as demonstrated by science,
is material, since it is but a mode of energy, which itself changes
form but is eternal. Hence, that thought whose strength and power
are always proportionate to its intensity, became, so to say, concrete
and palpable, and with the help of the strong affinity between the
two, it enveloped and overpowered the whole sentient and thinking
principle in Mr. Constantine, subjecting it entirely, and forcing
the will of the latter to act in accordance with his desire. The
thinking agent was dead, and the instrument lay shattered for ever.
But its last sound lived, and could not have completely died out, in
the waves of ether. Science says, the vibration of one single note of
music will linger on in motion through the corridors of all eternity ;
and theosophy, the last thought of the dying man changes into the
man himself ; it becomes his eidolon. Mr. Constantine would not
have surprised us, nor would he indeed have deserved being
accused by the skeptical of either superstition or of having labored
under a hallucination had he even seen the image, or the so-called
"
ghost
"
of his deceased friend before him. For that
"
ghost
"
would have been neither the conscious spirit nor the soul of the dead
man ; but simply his short—for one instant —materialized thought
projected unconsciously and by the sole power of its own intensity
in the direction of him who occupied that thought.
APOLLONIUS TYANEUS
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 188-189.]
In the History of the Christian Religion to the Year Two Hundred,
by Charles B. Waite, A.M., announced and reviewed in the Banner
of Light (Boston), we find portions of the work relating to the great
thaumaturgist of the second century a.d.—Apollonius of Tyana, the
rival of whom had never appeared in the Roman Empire.
"
Apollonius Tyaneus was the most remarkable character of that
period. . . . Before his birth, Proteus, an Egyptian god, appeared
to his mother and announced that he was to be incarnated in the
coming child."
This is a legend which, in days of old, made of every remarkable
character a
" son of God
"
miraculously born of a virgin. And what
follows is history.
[In his youth, Apollonius was famous for his personal beauty, his
16 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
mental powers and his ascetic life. When nearly 100 years old, he
was brought before the Emperor at Rome, accused of being an
enchanter ; he was thrown into prison from which he vanished, and
was met that same day by his friends at Puteoli, three days' journey
from Rome.]
Some Writers tried to make Apollonius appear a legendary char
acter, while pious Christians will persist in calling him an impostor.
Were the existence of Jesus of Nazareth as well attested by history
and he himself half as known to classical writers as was Apollonius,
no sceptic could doubt to-day the very being of such a man as the
Son of Mary and Joseph. Apollonius of Tyana was the friend and
correspondent of a Roman Empress and several Emperors, while
of Jesus no more remained on the pages of history than as if his life
had been written on the desert sands. His letter to Agbarus, the
prince of Edessa, the authenticity of which is vouchsafed for by
Eusebius alone —the Baron Munchausen of the patristic hierarchy —
is called in the Evidences of Christianity
" an attempt at forgery
"
even by Paley itself, whose robust faith accepts the most incredible
stories. Apollonius, then, is a historical personage ; while many
even of the Apostolic Fathers themselves, placed before the scrutiniz
ing eye of historical criticism, begin to flicker and many of them fade
out and disappear like the
" will o'-the-wisp
"
or the ignis fatuus.
LAMAS AND DRUSES
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 193-196.]
Mr. L. Oliphant's new work Land of Gilead attracts considerable
attention. Reviews appeared some time since, but we had to lay
the subject aside until now for lack of space. We will now have
something to say, not of the work itself—though justice can hardly
be sufficiently done to the writings of that clever author —but of
what he tells us respecting the Druses —those mystics of Mount
Lebanon of whom so little is known. We may, perchance, shed
some new light on the subject.
" '
The Druse,' "Mr. Oliphant thinks,
"
has a firm conviction that
the end of the world is at hand. Recent events have so far
tallied with the enigmatical prophecies of his sacred books,
that he looks forward to the speedy resurrection of El Hakim,
the founder and divine personage of the sect. In order to com
prehend this, the connection between China and Druse theology
has to be remembered. The souls of all pious Druses are supposed
to be occupying in large numbers certain cities in the west of
China. The end of the world will be signalized by the approach
LAMAS AND DRUSES 17
of a mighty army from the east against the contending powers
of Islam and Christianity. This army will be under the command
of the Universal Mind, and will consist of millions of Chinese
Unitarians. To it Christians and Mahomedans will surrender
and march before it to Mecca. El Hakim will then appear ; at
his command, the Kaaba will be demolished by fire from Heaven,
and the resurrection of the dead will take place. Now that
Russia has come into collision with China, the Druses see the
fulfilment of their sacred prophecies, and are eagerly waiting
for an Armageddon in which they believe themselves destined
to play a prominent part." The Pioneer.
Mr. Lawrence Oliphant is, in our opinion, one of England's
best writers. He is also more deeply acquainted with the inner
life of the East than most of the authors and travellers who have
written upon the subject —not even excepting Captain and Mrs.
Burton. But even his acute and observing intellect could hardly
fathom the secret of the profoundly mystical beliefs of the Druses.
To begin With : El Hakim is not the founder of their sect. Their
ritual and dogmas were never made known, but to those who have
been admitted into their brotherhood. Their origin is next to
unknown. As to their external religion, or what has rather transpired
of it, that can be told in a few words. The Druses are believed to be
a mixture of Kurds, Mardi-Arabs, and other semi-civilized tribes.
We humbly maintain that they are the descendants of, and a mixture
of, mystics of all nations —mystics, who, in the face of cruel and
unrelenting prosecution by the orthodox Christian Church and
orthodox Islamism, have ever since the first centuries of the
Mahomedan propaganda, been gathered together, and who gradually
made a permanent settlement in the fastnesses of Syria and Mount
Lebanon, where they had from the first found refuge. Since then,
they have preserved the strictest silence upon their beliefs and
truly occult rites. Later on, their warlike character, great bravery,
and unity of purpose which made their foes, whether Mussulmans
or Christians, equally fear them, helped them toward forming an
independent community, or, as we may term it, an imperium in
imperio. They are the Sikhs of Asia Minor, and their policy offers
many points of similarity with the late
"
commonwealth
" of the
followers of Guru Nanak —even extending to their mysticism and
indomitable bravery. But the two are still more closely related to
a third and still more mysterious community of religionists, of which
nothing, or next to nothing, is known by outsiders : we mean that
fraternity of Tibetan Lamaists, known as the Brotherhood of Khe-
lang, who mix but little with the rest. Even Csoma de Koros, who
passed several years with the Lamas, learned hardly more of the
b
18 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
religion of these Chakravartins (wheel-turners) than what they chose
to let him know of their exoteric rites ; and of the Khe-langs he
learned positively nothing.
The mystery that hangs over the scriptures and religion of the
Druses is far more impenetrable than that connected with the
Amritsar and Lahore
"
Disciples," whose Grantha is well known,
and has been translated into European languages more than once.
Of the alleged forty-five sacred books1 of the Lebanon mystics, none
were ever seen, let alone examined, by any European scholar.
Many manuscripts have never left the underground Holoweys
(place of religious meeting) invariably built under the meeting-room
on the ground-floor, and the public Thursday assemblies of the Druses
are simply blinds intended for over-curious travellers and neighbours.
Verily a strange sect are the
"
Disciples of H'amsa," as they call
themselves. Their Okhal or spiritual teachers besides having, like
the Sikh A kali, the duty of defending the visible place of worship,
which is merely a large, unfurnished room, are also the guardians
of the Mystical Temple, and the
" wise men," or the initiates of
their mysteries, as their name of Okhal implies ; Akl being in
Arabic
"
intelligence
"
or
"
wisdom." It is improper to call them
Druses, as they regard it as an insult ; nor are they in reality the
followers of Daruzi, a heretical pupil of H'amsa, but the true dis
ciples of the latter. The origin of that personage who appeared
among them in the elventh century, coming from Central Asia, and
whose secret or
"
mystery
"
name is
" El-Hamma," is quite unknown
to our European scholars. His spiritual titles are
" Universal Source,
or Mind," " Ocean of Light," and
" Absolute or Divine Intelligence."
They are, in short, repetitions of those of the Tibetan Dalai-Lama,
whose appellation
"
Path to the Ocean,"2 means, Path or
"
Way to
1 The work presented by Nasr-Allah to the French King as a portion of the Druse
Scriptures, and translated by Petit de la Croix in 1701
—is pronounced a forgery.
Not one of the copies now in the possession of the Bodleian, Vienna, or Vatican
Libraries is genuine, and besides, each of them is a copy from the other. Great
was always the curiosity of the travellers and greater yet the efforts of the in
domitable and ever-prying missionary, to penetrate behind the veil of Druse worship,
but all have resulted in failure. The strictest secrecy as to the nature of their
beliefs, the peculiar rites practised in their subterranean Holoweys, and the contents
of their canonical books was enjoined upon their followers by H'amsa and Boha-
eddin, the chief and first disciple of the former.
* "
Lama
" means path or road in the vulgar Tibetan language, but in that
figurative sense it conveys the meaning of way : as
" way to wisdom or salvation."
Strangely enough it also means
"
cross." It is the Roman figure X or ten, the
emblem of perfection or perfect number, and stood for ten with the Egyptians,
Chinese, Phoenicians, Romans, etc. It also is found in the Mexican secular calendars.
The Tartars call it lama from the Scytho-Turanian word lamh, hand, (from the
number of fingers on both hands), and it is synonymous with the Jod of the Chal-
dees,
"
and thus became the name of a cross, of the High Priest of the Tartars, and
of the Lamaic Messenger of God," says the author of The Booh of God ; Commentaries
on the Apocalypse. With the Irish, iuam signifies the head of the Church, a spiritual
chief.
LAMAS AND DRUSES 19
the Ocean of Light
"
(Intelligence) or Divine Wisdom —both titles
being identically the same. It is curious that the Hebrew word
Lamad should also mean
"
the God-taught."
An English Orientalist recently found that the religion of Nanak
had a good deal of Buddhism in it. (Art.
"
Dewali
"
in Calcutta
Review.) This would be only natural since the Empire of Hindustan
is the land of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. But that the religion of
the Druses, between whose geographical and ethnological position
and that of the Hindus there is an abyss, should be so, is far more
incomprehensible and strange. Yet it is a fact. They are more
Lamaists in their beliefs and certain rites, than any other people
upon the face of the globe. The fact may be contradicted, but it
will be only because Europe knows next to nothing of either. Their
system of government is set down as feudal and patriarchal, while
it is as theocratic as that of the Lamaists —or as that of the Sikhs
as it used to be. The mysterious representation of the Deity appears
in H'amsa, whose spirit is said to guide them, and periodically
re-incarnate itself in the person of the chief Okhal of the Druses,
as it does in the Guru-Kings of the Sikhs, some of whom, like Guru
Govind, claimed to be the re-incarnations of Nanak, while the
Dalai-Lamas of Tibet claim to be those of Buddha. The latter, by
the way, are loosely called Shaberons and Hobilgans (both in various
degrees re-incarnations, not of Buddha, the Man, but of his Buddh-
like divine spirit) by Abb£ Huc and others without any regard to the
difference in the appellation : El Hamma or H'amsa came from the
" Land of the Word of God." Where was that land ? Swedenborg,
the Northern seer, advised his followers to search for the Lost Word,
among the hierophants of Tartary, Tibet and China. To this we
may add a few explanatory and corroborative facts. Ll'Hassa,
the theocratic metropolis of Tibet, is commonly translated as
" God-
land," that is to say, this is the only English equivalent that we can
find1. Though separated by the Karakorum range and little Tibet,
the great Tibet is on the same Asiatic plateau in which our Biblical
scholars designate the table-land of Pamir2 as the cradle of the
human race, the birth-place of the mythical Adam. Tibet or
1 And a most unsatisfactory term it is, as the Lamaists have no conception of
the anthropomorphic deity which the English word
" God
"
represents. Fo or
Buddha (the latter name being quite unknown to the common people) is their
equivalent expression for that All-embracing, Superior Good, or Wisdom from which
all proceeds, as does the light from the sun, the cause being nothing personal, but
simply an Abstract Principle. And it is this that in all our theosophical writing, for
the want of a better word, we have to term
"
God-like
"
and
"
Divine."
* There are several Pamirs in Central Asia. There is the Alighur Pamir which
lies more north than either—the great Pamir with Victoria Lake in its vicinity.
Taghdumbast Pamir and the little Pamir, more south ; and eastward another chain
of Pamir dividing Mustagh Pass and Little Guhjal. We would like to know on which
of these we have to look for the garden of Eden ?
20 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Ti-Boutta, will yield, etymologically, the words Ti, which is the
equivalent for God in Chinese, and Buddha, or wisdom : the land,
then, of the Wisdom-Deity, or of the incarnations of Wisdom. It
is also called
"
Bod-Jid." Now
"
Jid
"
and
"
Jod
"
are synonymous
apocalyptic and phallic names for the Deity —Yod being the Hebrew
name for God. G. Higgins shows in his Celtic Druids the Welsh
Druids altering the name of Bod-Jid into Budd-ud which with them
meant the
"
Wisdom of Jid
" or what people now call
"
god."1
The religion of the Druses is said to be a compound of Judaism,
Mahomedanism and Christianity, strongly tinged with Gnosticism
and the Magian system of Persia. Were people to call things by their
right names, sacrificing all self-conceit to truth, they might confess
things otherwise. They could say, for instance, that Mahomed
anism, being a compound of Chaldeism, Christianity and Judaism ;
Christianity, a mixture of Judaism, Gnosticism and Paganism ; and
Judaism a wholesale Egypto-Chaldean Kabalism, masquerading
under invented names and fables, made to fit the bits and scraps of
the real history of the Israelite tribes—the religious system of the
Druses would then be found one of the last survivals of the archaic
Wisdom-Religion. It is entirely based on that element of practical
mysticism of which branches have from time to time sprung into
existence. They pass under the unpopular names of Kabalism,
Theosophy and Occultism. Except Christianity which, owing to
the importance it gives to the principal prop of its doctrine of Salva
tion (we mean the dogma of Satan) had to anathematize the prac
tice of theurgy, —every religion, including Judaism and Mahomedan
ism, credits these above-named branches. Civilization having
touched with its materialistic all-levelling, and all-destroying hand
even India and Turkey, amid the din and chaos of crumbling faith
and old sciences, the reminiscence of archaic truths is now fast
dying out. It has become popular and fashionable to denounce
" the old and mouldy superstitions of our forefathers
" ; verily even
among the most natural allies of the students of theurgy or occultism
—the Spiritualists. Among the many creeds and faiths striving to
follow the cyclic tide, and helping it themselves to sweep away
the knowledge of old, strangely blind to the fact, that the same
powerful wave of materialism and modern science also sweeps away
their own foundations —the only religions which have remained as
alive as ever to these forgotten truths of old, are those which from
the first have kept strictly aloof from the rest. The Druses, while
outwardly mixing with Moslems and Christians alike, ever ready
to read the Koran as well as the Gospels in their Thursday public
1 The name in Hebrew for sanctuary is Te-bah and Ti-boutta and Tebet, also a
cradle of the human race. Thebeth meaning
" a box
"—the
"
ark
"
of Noah and
the floating cradle of Moses.
LAMAS AND DRUSES 21
meetings, have never allowed an uninitiated stranger to penetrate
the mysteries of their own doctrines. Intelligence1 alone com
municates to the soul (which with them is mortal, though it survives
the body) the enlivening and divine spark of the Supreme Wisdom
or Ti-meami —they say —but it must be screened from all non-
believers in H'amsa. The work of the soul is to seek wisdom, and the
substance of earthly wisdom is to know Universal Wisdom, or
" God," as other religionists call that principle. This is the doctrine
of the Buddhists and Lamaists who say
"
Buddha
"
where the Druses
say
"
Wisdom
"—one word being the translation of the other.
" In spite of their external adoption of the religious customs of the
Moslems, of their readiness to educate their children in Christian
schools, their use of the Arabic language, and of their free inter
course with strangers, the Druses remain ever more than the Jews a
peculiar people" —says a writer. They are very rarely if ever con verted ;
they marry within their own race ; and adhere most tenaciously
to their traditions, baffling all efforts to discover their cherished
secrets. Yet they are neither fanatical, nor do they covet proselytes.
In his Journey through Tartary, Tibet and China, Huc speaks
with great surprise of the extreme tolerance and even outward respect
shown by the Tibetans to other religions. A grand Lama, or a
"
Living Buddha," as he_ calls him, whom the two missionaries met
at Choang-Long, near Koum-boum certainly had the best of them
in good breeding as well as tact and deference to their feelings. The
two Frenchmen, however, neither understood nor appreciated the
act, since they seemed quite proud of the insult offered by them
to the Hobilgan.
"
We were waiting for him . . seated on the kang . . .
and purposely did not rise to receive him, but merely made him a
slight salutation
"—boasts Huc (Vol. ii. p. 35-36). The Grand Lama
" did not appear disconcerted
"
though ; upon seeing that they as
"
purposely
" withheld from him
" an invitation to sit down," he only
looked at them
"
surprised," as well he might. A breviary of theirs
having attracted his attention, he demanded "permission to
examine it
" ; and then, carrying it
"
solemnly to his brow," he
said :
" It is your book of prayer ; we must always honour and
reverence other people's prayers." It was a good lesson, yet they
understood it not. We would like to see that Christian missionary
who would reverently carry to his brow the Vedas, the Tripitaka,
or the Grantha, and publicly honour other people's prayers ! While
the Tibetan
"
savage," the heathen Hobilgan, was all affability and
politeness, the two French
"
Lamas of Jehovah," as Abbe" Huc
called his companion and himself, behaved like two uneducated
bullies. And to think that they even boast of it in print I
1 The Druses divide man into three principles : body, soul and intelligence—
the
"
Divine Spark," which Theosophists call
"
spirit."
22 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
No more than the Druses do the Lamaists seek to make proselytes.
Both people have their
" schools of magic
"—those in Tibet being
attached to some la-khang (lamaseries), and those among the Druses
in the closely-guarded crypts of initiation, no stranger being even
allowed inside the buildings. As the Tibetan Hobilgans are the
incarnations of Buddha's spirit, so the Druse Okhals —erroneously
called
"
Spiritualists
"
by some writers —are the incarnations of
H'amsa. Both peoples have a regular system of pass-words and
signs of recognition among the neophytes, and we know them to be
nearly identical since they are partially those of the Theosophists.
In the mystical system of the Druses there are five
"
messengers
"
or interpreters of the
" Word of the Supreme Wisdom," who occupy
the same position as the five chief Bodhisattvas, or Hobilgans of
Tibet, each of whom is the bodily temple of the spirit of one of the
five Buddhas. Let us see what can be made known of both classes.
The names of the five principal Druse
"
messengers," or rather their
titles —as these names are generic, in both the Druse and Tibetan
hierarchies, and the title passes at the death of each to his successor
—are :
(1) . Wamsa, or "El Hamma," (spiritual wisdom) considered as
the Messiah, through whom speaks Incarnate Wisdom.
(2) Ismail—Ti-meami —
(the universal soul). He prepares the
Druses before their initiation to receive
" wisdom."
(3) Mohammed — (the Word). His duty is to watch over the
behaviour and necessities of the brethren—a kind of Bishop.
(4) Se-lama, (the
"
Preceding ") called the
"
Right Wing."
(5) Mokshatana Boha-eddin, (the
"
Following ") named the
" Left Wing." These last are both messengers between H'amsa and
the Brotherhood. Above these living mediators who remain ever
unknown to all but the chief Okhals stand the ten Incarnates of the
" Supreme Wisdom," the last of whom is to return at the end of the
cycle, which is fast approaching—though no one but El Hamma
knows the day—that last
"
messenger
" in accordance with the
1 Very curiously the Druses identify their H'amsa with Hemsa, the Prophet
Mahomet's uncle, who, they say, tired of the world and its deceitful temptations,
simulated death at the battle of Ohod, a.d. 625, and retired to the fastnesses of a
great mountain in Central Asia where he became a saint. He never died in spirit.
When several centuries after that he appeared among them it was in his second
spiritual body, and when their Messiah had, after founding the brotherhood, dis
appeared, Se-lama and Boha-eddin were the only ones to know the retreat of their
Master. They alone knew the bodies into which he went on, successively re
incarnating himself—as he is not permitted to die until the return of the Highest
Messenger, the last or one of the ten avatars. He alone —the now invisible but
expected one —stands higher than H'amsa. But, it is not, as erroneously believed,
" El-Hakim," the Fatimite Khalif of bad name.
LAMAS AND DRUSES 23
cyclic recurrences of events being also the first who came with
H'amsa, hence Boha-eddin. The names of the Druse Incarnations
are Ali A-llal who appeared in India (Kabir we believe) ; Albar in
Persia ; Alya in Yemen ; Moill and Kahim, in Eastern Africa ;
Moessa and Had-di in Central Asia ; Albou and Manssour in China ;
and Buddea, that is, Boha-eddin1 in Tartary, whence he came
and whither he returned. This last one, some say, was dual-sexed
on earth. Having entered into El-Hakim —the Khalif, a monster of
wickedness —he brought him to be assassinated, and then sent
H'amsa to preach and to found the Brotherhood of Lebanon. El-
Hakim then is but a mask. It is Buddea, i.e., Boha-eddin they
expect.2
And now for the Lamaic hierarchy. Of the living or incarnate
Buddhas there are five also, the chief of whom is Dalay, or rather
Talay-Lama —from Tale
" Ocean
" or Sea ; he being called the
" Ocean of Wisdom." Above him, as above H'amsa, there is but
the
" Supreme Wisdom
"—the abstract principle from which
emanated the five Buddhas —Maitree Buddha (the last Bodhisattva,
or Vishnu in the Kalki avatar) the tenth
"
messenger
"
expected
on earth—included. But this will be the One Wisdom and will
incarnate itself into the whole humanity collectively, not in a single
individual. But of this mystery—no more at present.
These five
"
Hobilgans
"
are distributed in the following order :
(1) Talay-Lama, of Lha-ssa, the incarnation of the
"
Spiritual
"
"
passive wisdom," —which proceeds from Gautama or Siddartha
Buddha, or Fo.
(2) Bande-cha-an Rem-Boo-Tchi, at Djashi-Loombo3. He is "the
active earthly wisdom."
(3) Sa-Dcha-Fo, or the
" Mouthpiece of Buddha," otherwise the
" word
" at Ssamboo.
(4) Khi-sson-Tamba —the
"
Precursor
"
(of Buddha) at the
Grand Kooren.
(5) Tchang-Zya-Fo-Lang, in the Altai mountains. He is called
the
" Successor
"
(of Buddha).
The
" Shaberons
"
are one degree lower. They, like the chief
Okhals of the Druses, are the initiates of the great wisdom or Buddh
esoteric religion. This double list of the
"
Five
"
shows great
1 One of the names of Minerva, Goddess of Wisdom, was Budea.
1 In the Druse system there is no room for a personal deity, unless a portion of
the divine impersonal and abstract wisdom incarnates itself in a mortal man. The
deific principle with them is the essence of Life, the All, and as impersonal as the
Parabrahm of the Vedantins or the Nirvana State of the Buddhists, ever invisible,
all-pervading and incomprehensible, to be known but through occasional incarna
tions of its spirit in human form. These ten incarnations or human avatars, as
above specified, are called the
"
Temples of Ti-meam" (Universal Spirit).
1
[In The Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett, p. 363, these words were
spelled as follows :—Ban Cheng Rin Po Chi ; Tashi Lhun Po. —Ed.]
24 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
similarity at least between the polity of the two systems. The
reader must bear in mind that they have sprung into their present
visible conditions nearly at the same time. It was from the ninth
to the fifteenth centuries that modern Lamaism evolved its ritual
and popular religion, which serves the Hobilgans and Shaberons as
a blind, even against the curiosity of the average Chinaman and
Tibetan. It was in the eleventh century that H'amsa founded the
Brotherhood of Lebanon ; and till now no one has acquired its
secrets !
It is supremely strange that both the Lamas and Druses should
have the same mystical statistics. They reckon the bulk of the
human race at 1,332 millions. When good and evil, they say, shall
come to an equilibrium in the scales of human actions (now evil is
far the heavier), then the breath of
" Wisdom," will annihilate in
a wink of the eye just 666 millions of men. The surviving 666
millions will have
"
Supreme Wisdom
"
incarnated in them1. This
may have, and probably has, an allegorical meaning. But what
relation might it possibly bear to the number of the
"
grand Beast
"
of John's Revelation ?
If more were known than really is of the religions of Tibet and
the Druses, then would scholars see that there is more affinity,
between Turanian Lamaists and the Semitic, " El-Hammites," or
Druses, than was ever suspected. But all is darkness, conjecture,
and mere guesswork whenever the writers speak of either the one
or the other. The little that has transpired of their beliefs is generally
so disfigured by prejudice and ignorance that no learned Lama or
Druse would ever recognize a glimpse of likeness to his faith in these
speculative fantasies. Even the profoundly suggestive conclusion
to which came Godfrey Higgins (Celtic Druids, Part I, 101) however
true, is but half so.
" It is evident," he writes, " that there was a
secret science possessed somewhere (by the ancients) which must
have been guarded by the most solemn oaths . . . and I cannot help
suspecting that there is still a secret doctrine known only in the deep
recesses of the crypts of Tibet. ..."
To conclude with the Druses : As Selama and Boha-eddin —two
names more than suggestive of the words
" Lama
"
and
" Buddha
"
—are the only ones entrusted with the secret of H'amsa 's retreat ;
and having the means of consulting with their master, they produce
1 The Hindus have the same belief. In the
"
Deva-Yug
"
they will all be devas or
gods. See Lama-nim-tshen-po, or
"
Great Road to perfection
" ; a work of the
fifteenth century. The author of this book is the Great Reformer of Lamaism, the
famous Tzong-ka-pa, from whose hair sprang up the famous koum-boum letter tree
—a tree whose leaves all bear sacred Tibetan inscriptions, according to the tradition.
This tree was seen by Abbe1 Huc some forty years ago, and was seen last year by
the Hungarian traveller Count Szitcheny ; who, however, begging his pardon, could
not, under its physical surroundings, have carried away a branch of it, as he pretends
to have done.
LAMAS AND DRUSES
from time to time his directions and commands to the Brotherhood
so, even to this day do the Okhals of that name travel every seventh
year, through Bussora and Persia into Tartary and Tibet to the very
west of China and return at the expiration of the eleventh year,
bringing them fresh orders from
" ErHamma." Owing to the
expectation of war between China and Russia, only last year a Druse
messenger passed through Bombay on his way to Tibet and Tartary.
This would explain the "superstitious" belief that "the souls of
all pious Druses are supposed to be occupying in large numbers
certain cities in China." It is around the plateau of the Pamirs —
they say with the Biblical scholars —that the cradle of the true
race must be located : but the cradle of initiated humanity only ;
of those who have for the first time tasted of the fruit of knowledge,
and these are in Tibet, Mongolia, Tartary, China and India, where
also the souls of their pious and initiated brethren transmigrate, and
re-become
" sons of God." What this language means every Theo-
sophist ought to know. They discredit the fable of Adam and Eve,
and say that they who ate first of the forbidden fruit and thus became
" Elohim " were Enoch or Hermes (the supposed father of Masonry),
and Seth or Sat -an, the father of secret wisdom and learning, whose
abode, they say, is now in the planet Mercury1, and whom the
Christians were kind enough to convert into a chief devil, the
"
fallen Angel." Their evil one is an abstract principle, and called
the
'*
Rival."
The
" millions of Chinese Unitarians
"
may mean Tibetan Lamas,
Hindus, and others of the East, as well as Chinamen. It is true that
the Druses believe in and expect their resurrection day in Arma
geddon, which, however, they pronounce otherwise. As the phrase
occurs in the Apocalypse it may seem to some that they got the idea
in St. John's Revelation. It is nothing of the kind. That day
which, according to the Druse teaching
" will consummate the great
spiritual plan—the bodies of the wise and faithful will be absorbed
into the absolute essence, and transformed from the many, into the
One." This is pre-eminently the Buddhist idea of Nirvana, and that
of the Vedantin final absorption into Parabrahm. Their
"
Persian
Magianism and Gnosticism," make them regard St. John as Oannes,
the Chaldean Man-Fish, hence connects their belief at once with the
1 Buddha is son of Maya ; and (according to Brahmanic notion) of Vishnu ;
"
Maia
" is mother of Mercury by Jupiter. Buddha means the
"
wise
" and Mercury
is God of Wisdom (Hermes) ; and the planet sacred to Gautama Buddha is Mercury.
Venus and Isis presided over navigation, as Mary or Maria, the Madonna presides
now. Is not the latter hymned to this day by the Church :
'*
Ave Maris Stella. . . .
Dei Mater Alma ?
"— or
Hail, Star of the Sea,
Mother of God—thus identified with Venus ?
26 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Indian Vishnu and the Lamaic Symbology. Their " Armageddon
"
is simply
"
Ramdagon1," and this is how it is explained.
The sentence in Revelation is no better interpreted than so many
other things by Christians, while even the non-Kabalistic Jews
know nothing of its real meaning. Armageddon is mistaken for a
geographical locality, Viz., the elevated table of Esdraelon or
Armageddon,
"
the mountain of Megiddo," where Gideon triumphed
over the Midianites2. It is an erroneous notion, for the name in the
Revelation refers to a mythical place mentioned in one of the most
archaic traditions of the heathen East, especially among the Turanian
and Semitic races. It is simply a kind of purgatorial Elysium, in
which departed spirits are collected, to await the day of the final
judgment. That it is so is proved by the verse in Revelation.
"
And
he gathered them together into a place called . . . Armageddon
xvi, 16), when the seventh angel will pour out his vial into the air."
The Druses pronounce the name of that mystical locality
" Ram
dagon." It is, then, highly probable that the word is an anagram,
as shown by the author of the Commentary on the Apocalypse. It
means
"
Rama-Dagon "3 the first signifying Sun-God of that name,
and the second,
"
Dagon
" or the Chaldean Holy Wisdom incarnated
1 Rama, of the Solar race, is an incarnation of Vishnu —a Sun-God. In " Machha,"
or the first Avatar, in order to save humanity from final destruction (see Vishnu
Purana) that God appears to King Satyavrata and the seven saints who accompany
him on the vessel to escape Universal Deluge, as an enormous fish with one
stupendous horn. To this horn the King is commanded by Hari to tie the ship with a
serpent (the emblem of eternity) instead of a cable. The Talay-Lama, besides his
name of
"
Ocean ", is also called Sarou, which in Tibetan, means the
"
unicorn ", or
one-horned. He wears on his head-gear a prominent horn, set over a Yung-dang, or
mystic cross ; which is the Jain and Hindu Swastika. The
"
fish
"
and the sea, or
water, are the most archaic emblems of the Messiahs, or incarnations of divine
wisdom, among all the ancient people. Fishes play prominently a figure on old
Christian medals ; and in the catacombs of Rome the
"
Mystic Cross
" or
"
Anchor
"
stands between two fishes as supporters.
"
Dagh-dae
"—the name of Zarathustra's
mother, means the
" Divine Fish
"
or Holy Wisdom. The
" Mover on the Waters
"
whether we call him
"
Narayan
"
or Abatur, (the Kabalistic Superior Father and
"
Ancient of the World ") or
" Holy Spirit
"
is all one. According to Codex Naza-
raeus, Kabalah and Genesis, the Holy Spirit when moving on the waters mirrored
himself—and
" Adam Kadmon was born." Mare in Latin, is the sea. Water is
associated with every creed. Mary and Venus are both patronesses of the sea and
of sailors—and both mothers of Gods of Love, whether Divine or Earthly. The
mother of Jesus is called Mary or Mariah —the word meaning in Hebrew mirror that
in which we find but the reflection instead of a reality, and 600 years before Chris
tianity there was Maya Buddha's mother, whose name means illusion —identically
the same. Another curious
"
coincidence
"
is found in the selections of new Dalay-
Lamas in Tibet. The new incarnation of Buddha is ascertained by a curious ichthyo-
mancy with three gold fishes. Shutting themselves up in the Buddha-La (Temple),
the Hobilgans place three gold-fish in an urn, and on one of these ancient emblems
of Supreme Wisdom, shortly appears the name of the child into whom the soul of the
late Talay-Lama is supposed to have transmigrated.
* It is not the
" Valley of Megiddo ", for there is no such valley known. Dr.
Robinson's topographical and Biblical notions being no better than hypotheses.
• Ram is also womb, and valley ; and in Tibetan
"
goat."
"
Dag
"
is fish ; from
Dagon, the man-fish, or perfect wisdom.
NATIVE ASTROLOGERS 27
in their
" Messenger," Oannes —the Man-Fish, and descending
on the
"
Sons of God
" or the Initiates of whatever country ; those,
in short, through whom Deific Wisdom occasionally reveals itself
to the world.
NATIVE ASTROLOGERS
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 198-199.]
[Mr. K. D. Dosabhoy wrote to The Theosophist, saying that his
faith in astrology had been destroyed as the result of the failure of the
astrologers he had consulted to make correct predictions. H. P.
Blavatsky's editorial comment on this was as follows :]
Our esteemed Brother and correspondent was unlucky in his
astrological researches, and that is all we can say. Because half-
educated astronomers in one country may fail to correctly predict an
eclipse, is it a reason why its inhabitants should decry astronomy
and call it a visionary science ? Besides the great neglect into which
astrology has fallen during the last two centuries, it is a science far
more difficult to master than the highest of mathematics ; yet,
notwithstanding all, we assert again that, whenever studied con
scientiously, it proves the claims of its efficients correct. No more
than Mr. Darasha Dosabhoy do we believe astrology capable of
predicting every trifling event in our life, any accidental illness,
joy or sorrow. It never claimed as much. The stars can predict (?)
no more unforeseen events than a physician a broken leg to a patient
who never stirs from his house. They show a lucky or unlucky life,
but in general features, and no more. If our friend was unsuccessful
with every astrologer he met, we know at least a dozen of well-
educated men who were forced to believe in astrology as its predic
tions came to pass in every case. A large volume would be necessary
to explain in detail the understanding of this ancient science, yet a
few words may serve to correct one of the most glaring errors
concerning it, not only current among the masses, but even among
many who understand and practise astrology, namely, that the
planets make us what we are, their good and evil aspects causing for
tunate and unfortunate periods. Says a Professor of Astrology,
W. H. Chaney :
" Take to the unphilosophical astrologer the
horoscope of a boy born with Sagittarius rising, Jupiter in the
same, on the ascendant, in exact trine to the Sun and Leo, with other
favourable configurations, and instantly he would declare that the
boy would become a great man, a Prince, a President —and so would
I. But the astrologer might insist that all this good fortune was
caused by the boy having been born under such fortunate aspects,
whereas I should look beyond the birth for the cause, and should
28 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
probably discover that, before his conception, his parents have been
away from each other for weeks or months, during which both lived
a life of perfect chastity ; that they were very harmonious, in
excellent bodily health, their intellects clear, their minds cheerful,
and their normal natures strong."
The Egyptian episcope ("overseer" ; our English word "epis
copal
"
is derived from the name of this ancient pagan star-gazer)
discovered that in the morning, shortly before sun-rise, in June, he
could see in the east the brightest fixed star in the heavens, and
immediately after thus seeing the star the Nile would overflow.
Having witnessed the phenomena for many successive years, he
laid it down as an axiom that this star indicated the overflow of the
Nile, no one thinking of disputing him ; for the cause should be
traced to the melting of the snow in the mountains of Africa. Now,
suppose someone —a sceptic —had heard of this idea of a star causing
the Nile to overflow, what an opportunity it would have afforded
for heaping scorn and ridicule upon the poor episcope ? Yet the
episcope would have continued to observe the same phenomena
year after year ; and being called
" moon-struck," a
" fool," etc.,
would not have changed his opinion in the least. Now all the
hubbub on this point would arise from ignorance on the part of the
sceptic just as nine-tenths of all the disputes and quarrels arise.
Teach the man that the appearance of that star at a particular time
and place in the heavens indicated, not caused the overflow of the
Nile, and he would have ceased to call the episcope an idiot and
liar.
The intelligent reader must now see the point at which we aim—
namely, that in astrology the stars do not cause our good or bad luck,
but simply indicate the same. A man must be a psychologist before
he can become a perfect astrologer, and understand correctly the
great Law of Universal Sympathy. Not only astrology but magnet
ism, theosophy and every occult science, especially that of attraction
and repulsion, depend upon this law for their existence. Without
having thoroughly studied the latter, astrology becomes a super
stition.
The article
" Stars and Numbers
"
which follows was written
before we received the above letter. We draw our esteemed
correspondent's attention to it.
STARS AND NUMBERS
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 199-201.]
Ancient civilization saw nothing absurd in the claims of astrology,
no more than many an educated and thoroughly scientific man
STARS AND NUMBERS 29
sees in it to-day. Judicial astrology, by which the fate and acts of
men and nations might be foreknown, appeared, nor does it even
now appear, any more unphilosophical or unscientific than does
natural astrology or astronomy —by which the events of so-called
brute and inanimate nature (changes of weather, etc.) might be
predicted. For it was not even prophetic insight that was claimed
by the votaries of that abstruse and really grand science, but simply
a great proficiency in that method of procedure which allows the
astrologer to foresee certain events in the life of a man by the
position of the planets at the time of his birth.
Once the probability, or even the simple possibility, of an occult
influence exercised by the stars upon the destiny of man admitted
—and why should the fact appear more improbable in the case of
stars and man than in that of the sun-spots and potatoes ? —and
astrology becomes no less an exact science than astronomy. The
earth, Prof. Balfour Stewart, f.r.s., tells us—"
is very seriously
affected by what takes place in the sun "... a connection
" is
strongly suspected between epidemics and the appearance of the
sun's surface."1
And
if,
as that man of science tells us,
"
a
connection of some
mysterious kind between the sun and the earth
is
more than sus
pected"
.
. . and the problem
is
a most important one "to solve,"
how much more important the solution of that other mystery —
the undoubted affinity between man and the stars —an affinity
believed in for countless ages and by the most learned among men
!
Surely the destiny of man deserves as much consideration as that of
a
turnip or
a
potato. . .
.
And
if
a
disease of the latter may be
scientifically foretold whenever that vegetable crops out during a
"
sun-spot period," why should not
a
life of disease, or health, of
natural or violent death be as scientifically prognosticated by the
position and appearance of the constellation with which man
is
as
directly connected and which bears the same relation to him as the
sun bears to the earth
?
In its days, astrology was greatly honoured, for when in able
hands
it
was often shown to be as precise and trustworthy in its
predictions as astronomical predictions are in our own age. Omens
were studied by all imperial Rome, as much,
if
not more than they
are now in India. Tiberius practised the science
;
and the Saracens
in Spain held star-divination in the greatest reverence, astrology
1
One of the best-known vegetable epidemics
is
that of the potato disease. The
years 1846, i860, and 1872 were bad years for the potato disease, and those years
are not very far from the years of maximum sun-spots
.
.
.
there
is
a curious
connection between these diseases affecting plants and the state of the sun. . .
.
A disease that took place about three centuries since, of a periodical and very violent
character, called the
"
sweating sickness "... took place about the end of the
fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth century . .
.
and this
is
exactly the
sun-spot period. . . . (The Sun and the Earth. Lecture by Prof. Balfour Stewart).
30 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
passing into Western Europe through these, our first civilizers.
Alphonso, the wise king of Castile and Leon, made himself famous
in the thirteenth century by his
"
Astrological Tables
"
(called
Alphonsine) ; and his code of the Siata Purtidas ; and the great
astronomer Kepler in the seventeenth, the discoverer of the three
great laws of planetary motions (known as Kepler's laws), believed
in and proclaimed astrology a true science. Kepler, the Emperor
Rudolph's mathematician, he to whom Newton is indebted for all
his subsequent discoveries, is the author of The Principles of
Astrology, in which he proves the power of certain harmonious con
figurations of suitable planets to control human impulses. In his
official capacity of Imperial astronomer, he is historically known to
have predicted to Wallenstein, from the position of the stars, the
issue of the war in which that unfortunate general was then engaged.
No less than himself, his friend, protector and instructor, the great
astronomer Tycho de Brahe, believed in, and expanded, the
astrological system. He was forced, moreover, to admit the
influence of the constellations on terrestrial life and actions quite
against his will or wish, and merely because of the constant
verification of facts.
Closely related to astrology is the kabala and its system of
numerals. The secret wisdom of the ancient Chaldees left by them
as an inheritance to the Jews relates primarily to the mythological
science of the heavens and contains the doctrines of the hidden or
occult wisdom concerning the cycles of time. In the ancient
philosophy, the sacredness of numbers began with the great First,
the One, and ended with the naught or Zero, the symbol of the
infinite and boundless circle, which represents the universe. All
the intervening figures, in whatever combination, or however
multiplied, represent philosophical ideas relating either to a moral
or a physical fact in nature. They are the key to the archean
views on cosmogony, in its broad sense, including man and beings,
and relate to the human race and individuals spiritually as well as
physically.
" The numerals of Pythagoras," says Porphyry,
"
were
hieroglyphical symbols, by means whereof he explained all ideas
concerning the nature of all things
"
(De Vita Pythag.). In the
symbolical kabala —the most ancient system left to us by the
Chaldeans —the modes of examining letters, words and sentences
for hidden meaning were numerical. The gematria (one of the three
modes) is purely arithmetical and mathematical, and consists in
applying to the letters of a word the sense they bear as numbers —
letters being used also for figures in the Hebrew as in the Greek.
Figurative Gematria deduces mysterious interpretations from the
shapes of letters used in occult manuscripts and the Bible.
Thus, as shown by Cornelius Agrippa, in Numbers (x. 35), the
STARS AND NUMBERS 3i
letter Beth means the reversal of enemies. The sacred anagrams
known as Zeruph yield their mysterious sense by the second mode
named Themura, and consist in displacing the letters and substi
tuting them one for another and then arranging them in rows accord
ing to their numerical value. If, of all operations in the occult
sciences, there is not one that is not rooted in astrology, arithmetic
and especially geometry are a part of the first principles of magic.
The most recondite mysteries and powers in nature are made to
yield to the power of numbers. And let this not be regarded as a
fallacy. He who knows the relative and respective numbers or the
so-called correspondence between causes and effects will alone be able
to obtain of a certainty the desired result. A small mistake, a
trifling difference in an astronomical calculation and —no correct
prediction of a heavenly phenomenon becomes possible. As
Severinus Boethiusputs it, it is by the proportion of certain numbers
that all things were formed.
" God geometrizes," saith Plato,
meaning creative nature. If there are so many occult virtues in
natural things,
" what marvel if in numbers, which are pure and
commixed only with ideas, there should be found virtues greater
and more occult ?
" asks Agrippa. Even Time must contain the
mystery number ; so also does motion, or action, and so, therefore,
must all things that move, act, or are subjected to time. But
"
the
mystery is in the abstract power of number, in its rational and
formal state, not in the expression of it by the voice, as among
people who buy and sell
"
(De Occultis Philo., cap. iii., p. cii). The
Pythagoreans claimed to discern many things in the numbers of
names. And if those who having understanding were invited to
"compute the number and name of the beast" by the author
of St. John's Revelation it is because that author was a
Kabalist.
The wiseacres of our generations raise daily the cry that science
and metaphysics are irreconcilable; and facts prove as daily that it
is but one more fallacy among the many that are uttered. The
reign of exact science is proclaimed on every house-top, and Plato,
who is said to have trusted to his imagination, is sneered at, while
Aristotle's method built on pure reason is the one accepted by
Science. Why ? Because
" the philosophical method of Plato
was the inverse of that of Aristotle." Its starting-point was
universals, the very existence of which is,
" a matter of faith," says
Dr. Draper, and from these it descended to particulars, or details.
Aristotle, on the contrary,
"
rose from particulars to universals,
advancing to them by inductions
"
(Conflict between Religion and
Science). We humbly answer to this, that mathematics, the only
exact and infallible science in the world of sciences —proceeds from
Universals.
32 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
It is this year especially, the year 1881, which seems to defy and
challenge sober, matter-of-fact science, and by its extraordinary
events above, as below, in heaven as upon earth, to invite criticism
upon its strange
"
coincidences." Its freaks in the domains of
meteorology and geology were prognosticated by the astronomers,
and these every one is bound to respect. There is a certain triangle
seen this year on the horizon formed of the most brilliant stars which
was predicted by them, but none the less left unexplained. It is a
simple geometrical combination of heavenly bodies, they say. As
to that triangle, formed of the three large planets—Venus, Jupiter
and Saturn —having aught to do with the destinies of either men or
nations—why, that is pure superstition.
"
The mantle of the
astrologers is burnt and the predictions of some of them, whenever
verified, must be attributed to simple and blind chance."
We are not so sure of that ; and, if permitted, will further on
tell why —meanwhile, we must remind the reader of the fact that
Venus, the most intensely brilliant of the three above-named
planets, as was remarked in Europe and for all we know in India
also —suddenly parted company with its two companions and, slowly
moving onward, stopped above them, whence it goes on dazzling
the inhabitants of the earth with an almost preternatural brilliancy.
The conjunction of two planets happens but rarely ; that of three
is still more rare ; while the conjunction of four and five planets
becomes an event. The latter phenomenon took place in historical
times but once, 2449 years b.C., when it was observed by the Chinese
astronomers and has not recurred since then. That extraordinary
meeting of five large planets forebode all kinds of evils to the Celestial
Empire and its peoples, and the panic then created by the predictions
of the Chinese astrologers was not in vain. During the following
500 years, a series of internal broils, revolutions, wars and changes
of dynasty marked the end of the golden age of national felicity
in the Empire founded by the great Fu-hi.
Another conjunction is know to have happened just before the
beginning of the Christian era. In that year, three large planets
had approached so closely together as to be mistaken by many for
one single star of an immense size. Biblical scholars were more than
once inclined to identify these
" three in one
" with the Trinity,
and at the same [time] with the
" Star of the wise men of the East."
But they saw themselves thwarted in such pious desires by their
hereditary enemies —the irreverent men of science, who proved that
the astronomical conjunction took place a year before the period
claimed for the alleged birth of Jesus. Whether the phenomenon
forebode good or evil is best answered by the subsequent history and
development of Christianity, than which, no other religion cost so
many human victims, shed such torrents of blood, nor brought the
STARS AND NUMBERS 33
greater portion of humanity to suffer from what is now termed the
"
blessings of Christianity and civilization."
A third conjunction took place in a.d. 1563. It appeared near
the great nebula in the constellation of Cancer. There were three
great planets and—according to the astronomers of those days —the
most nefarious : Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. The constellation of
Cancer has always had a bad reputation ; that year the mere fact
of its having in its neighbourhood a triune conjunction of evil stars
caused the astrologers to predict great and speedy disasters. These
did come to pass. A terrible plague broke out and raged in all
Europe, carrying off thousands upon thousands of victims.
And now, in 1881, we have again a visit of three other
" Wanderers." What do they forebode ? Nothing good ; and it
would seem, as if of the great evils they are likely to pour on the
devoted heads of hapless humanity, the fatal prelude is already
being played. Let us enumerate and see how far we are from the
truth. The nearly simultaneous and certainly in some cases unex
pected deaths of great and the most remarkable men of our age.
In the region of politics, we find the Emperor of Russia, Lord
Beaconsfield and Aga Khan ;1 in that of literature, Carlyle and
George Eliot ; in the world of art, Rubinstein, the greatest musical
genius. In the domain of geology —earthquakes which have already
destroyed the town of Casamicciola on the Island of Ischia, a village
in California and the Island of Chios which was laid entirely waste
by the terrible catastrophe —one, moreover, predicted for that very
day by the astrologer Raphael. In the domain of wars, the hitherto
invincible Great Britain was worsted at the Cape by a handful of
Boers ; Ireland is convulsed and threatens ; a plague now rages in
Mesopotamia ; another war is preparing between Turkey and
Greece ; armies of Socialists and red-handed Nihilists obscure the
sun of the political horizon in Europe ; and the latter thrown into a
violent perturbation is breathlessly awaiting the most unexpected
events in the future—defying the perspicacity of the most acute of
her political men. In the religious spheres the heavenly triangle
pointed its double horn at the monastic congregations and—a
general exodus of monks and nuns —headed by the children of
Loyola, followed in France. There is a revival of infidelity and
1 H. H. Aga Khan was one of the most remarkable men of the century. Of all
the Mussulmans, Shiahs or Soonis, who rejoice in the green turban, the Aga's claims
to a direct descent from Mahomet through Ali rested on undeniable proofs. He
again represented the historical
"
Assassins
"
of the Old Man of the Mountain. He
had married a daughter of the late Shah of Persia ; but political broils forced him
to leave his native land and seek refuge with the British Government in India. In
Bombay he had a numerous religious following. He was a high-spirited, generous
man and a hero. The most noticeable feature of his life was that he was born in
1800—and died in 1881, at the age of 81. In his case too the occult influence of
the year 1881 has asserted itself.
C
34 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
mental rebellion, and with it a proportionate increase of missionary
labourers (not labour), who like the hordes of Attila destroy much
and build little. Shall we add to the list of signs of these nefasti dies,
the birth of the New Dispensation at Calcutta ? The latter, though
having but a small and quite a local importance, shows yet a direct
bearing upon our subject, i.e. the astrological meaning of the
planetary conjunction. Like Christianity with Jesus and his Apostle,
the New Dispensation can henceforth boast of having had a fore
runner in starry heaven —the present triune conjunction of planets.
It proves, moreover, our kabalistic theory of periodical cyclic
recurrences of events. As the Roman sceptical world of 1881 years
ago, we are startled by a fresh revival of mendicant Ebionites,
fasting Essenes and Apostles upon whom descend
" cloven tongues
like as of fire," and of whom we cannot even say as of the Jerusalem
twelve,
" that these men are full of new wine," since their inspiration
is entirely due to water, we are told.
The year 1881, then, of which we have lived but one-third,
promises, as predicted by astrologers and astronomers, a long and
gloomy list of disasters on land, as on the seas. We have shown
elsewhere {Bombay Gazette, March 30, 1881) how strange in every
respect was the grouping of the figures of our present year, adding
that another such combination will not happen in the Christian
chronology before the year 11811, just 9930 years hence, when —
there will be no more a
"
Christian
"
chronology we are afraid, but
something else. We said :
" Our year 1881 offers that strange fact,
that from whichever of four sides you look at its figures —from right
or left, from top or bottom, from the back, by holding the paper up
to the light —or even upside down, you will always have before you
the same mysterious and kabalistic numbers of 1881. It is the
correct number of the three figures which have most perplexed
mystics for over eighteen centuries. The year 1881, in short, is the
number of the great Beast of the Revelation, the number 666 of
St. John's Apocalypsis—that Kabalistic Book par excellence. See
for yourselves : 1+8 +8+1 make eighteen ; eighteen divided thrice
gives three times six, or placed in a row, 666,
" the number of man."
This number has been for centuries the puzzle of Christendom and
was interpreted in a thousand different ways. Newton himself
worked for years over the problem, but ignorant of the secret
Kabala, failed. Before the Reformation it was generally supposed
in the Church to have reference to the coming Antichrist. Since
then the Protestants began to apply it, in that spirit of Christian
charity which so characterizes Calvinism, to the Latin Popish
Church, which they call the
" Harlot," the
"
great Beast
"
and the
" scarlet woman," and forthwith the latter returned the compliment
in the same brotherly and friendly spirit. The supposition that it
STARS AND NUMBERS 35
refers to the Roman nation —the Greek letters of the world Latinus
as numerals, amounting to exactly 666—is absurd.
There are beliefs and traditions among the people which spring
no one knows from whence and pass from one generation to the other,
as an oral prophecy, and an unavoidable fact to come. One of such
traditions, a correspondent of the Moscow Gazette happened to hear
in 1874 from the mountaineers of the Tyrolian Alps, and subse
quently from old people in Bohemia.
" From the first day of 1876,"
says that tradition,
" a sad, heavy period will begin for the whole
world and will last for seven consecutive years. The most unfortunate
and fatal year for all will be 1881. He who will survive it, has an
iron head."
An interesting new combination, meanwhile, of the year 1881, in
reference to the life of the murdered Czar, may be found in the
following dates, every one of which marks a more or less important
period in his life. It proves at all events what important and
mysterious a part, the figures 1 and 8 played in his life. 1 and 8
make 18 ; and the Emperor was born April 17th (1 +7 =8) in 1818.
He died in 1881 —the figures of the years of his birth and death
being identical, and coinciding, moreover, with the date of his
birth 17 (1+7=8). The figures of the years of the birth and death
being thus the same, as four times 18 can be formed out of them,
and the sum-total of each year's numerals is 18. The arrival at
Petersburg of the late Empress—the Czar's bride—took place on
September 8th; their marriage April 16th — (8+8=16); their
eldest daughter, the Grand Duchess Alexandra, was born August
18th ; the late Czarevitch Nicolas Alexandrovitch, on September
8th, 1843 (1+8+4+3=16, i.e. twice 8). The present Czar,
Alexander III, was born February 26th (2 +6 =8) ; the proclamation
of the ascension to the throne of the late Emperor was signed
February 18 ; the public proclamation about the coronation day
took place April 17th (1+7=8). His entrance into Moscow for the
coronation was on August 17th (1+7=8) ; the coronation itself
being performed August 26th (2+6=8) ; the year of the liberation
of the Serfs, 1861, whose numerals sum up to 16—i.e. twice 8 !
To conclude, we may mention here a far more curious discovery
made in relation, and as a supplement, to the above calculation, by
a Jewish Rabbi in Russia—a Kabalist, evidently, from the use he
makes of the Gematria reckoning. It was just published in a St.
Petersburg paper. The Hebrew letters as stated have all their
numerical value or correspondence in arithmetical figures. The
number 18 in the Hebrew Alphabet is represented by the letters—
" heth "=8, and
" jod "=10, i.e. 18. United together Heth and
Jod form the word
" khai," or
" Hal," which literally translated
means the imperative —live and alive. Every orthodox Jew during
36 "THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
his fast and holy days is bound to donate for some pious purpose a
sum of money consisting of, and containing the number 18 in it.
So, for instance, he will give 18 copecks, or 18 ten-copeck bits, 18
rubles or 18 times 18 copecks or rubles—according to his means and
degree of religious fervour. Hence, the year 1818 —that of the
Emperor's birth —meant, if read in Hebrew —" khai
"—or live, live
—pronounced emphatically twice ; while the year 1881 —that of
his death read in the same way, yields the fatal words
"
Hhai-tze
"
rendered in England,
" thou living one depart
"
; or in other words,
" life is ended." . . .
Of course, those sceptically inclined will remark that it is all due
to blind chance and "coincidence." Nor would we much insist
upon the contrary, were such an observation to proceed but from
uncompromising atheists, and materialists, who, denying the above,
remain only logical in their disbelief, and have as much right to
their opinion as we have to our own. But we cannot promise the
same degree of indulgence whenever attacked by orthodox
religionists. For, that class of persons while pooh-poohing specula
tive metaphysics, and even astrology—a system based upon strictly
mathematical calculations, pertaining as much to exact science as
biology or physiology, and open to experiment and verification —
will, at the same time, firmly believe that potato disease, cholera,
railway accidents, earthquakes and the like are all of Divine origin
and, proceeding directly of God, have a meaning and a bearing on
human life in its highest aspects. It is to the latter class of theists
that we say : prove to us the existence of a personal God either
outside or inside physical nature, demonstrate him to us as the
external agent, the Ruler of the Universe ; show him concerned in
human affairs and destiny and exercising on them an influence, at
least, as great and reasonably probable as that exercised by the
sun-spots upon the destiny of vegetables and then —laugh at us.
Until then, and so long as no one is prepared with such a proof and
solution, in the words of Tyndall—"
Let us lower our heads, and
acknowledge our ignorance, priest and philosopher, one and all."
" PRAISE HIM WITH THE TIMBREL AND DANCE
"
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 9 (21), June, 1881, pp. 201-202.]
..." Let the children of Zion . . . praise the Lord's name in
the dance . . . with the timbrel and harp." (Psalm cxlix, 3).
. . . The Brahmo body (the Sadharan) publishes in its organ
odds-and-ends called
"
Musings on the New Dispensation," which
are witty but cruel hits against its venerable Parent, the Brahmo
"
PRAISE HIM WITH THE TIMBREL AND DANCE "
37
Samaj that was, and the New Apostolic Church that is—of Babu
K. C. Sen. There is a paragraph on a New Invention which speaks
of the :
" '
Mode of chastising apostacy with love, persecution with
prayer, and scoffing with solemn hymns.' Weapon ?
'
Artillery
of forgiving love and prayer
'
as personified in the following
lovely and dignified epithets :
'
deluded renegade,'
'
wanton
blasphemy,'
'
irreverent scoffing,'
'
weak-minded brother,'
'
mis
guided brother,' etc."
Our esteemed colleague of the Brahmo Public Opinion is somewhat
unjust. He should bear in mind that these
"
lovely and dignified
epithets
"
are not at all original with the Aryan apostles of the
New Dispensation. They are but mild echoes of those so profusely
lavished upon each other, in days of old, by their Semitic pre
decessors, the Apostles Peter and Paul (with whom, we are told,
Mr. Sen is on friendly terms and even occasional communication),
and which have been of late years so strongly revived by our valued
friends, the Padri Editors of Dissenterism.
And there is another bit quite as liable to mislead the uninitiated
reader and make him regard the venerable New Dispensation
Church as a branch of the whirling and dancing dervishes of the
Mussulmans of Turkey.
"
Philosophy of Dancing —'
The minister
'
asked the Lord's
help,
'
perpetually to dance and smile.' Believing that a response
had been given, he shaved his head, took the vow of poverty,
put on dore kopin, tied a brass ghcongoor round his ankles, and
began to dance. This is the religion of the New Dispensation !
"
We are sorry to see our witty colleague cast a slur upon one of the
oldest and most venerable rites of antiquity. Mystical dancing is
a practice hoary with age and pregnant with occult philosophy, and
the
"
Minister
" of the New Dispensation has done wisely to adopt
it. It can bring him but into closer affinity with, and make him
resemble the more, the
" man after God's own heart." The sweet
psalm-singing King David,
"
danced before the Lord with all his
might," uncovered himself
"
in the eyes of the handmaids of his
servants," promised "to be more vile than this," to be base even
in his
"
own sight," and apparently succeeded. It is at this moment,
we love to think that the clairvoyant eye of the Prophet of the New
Dispensation, after the fashion of Professor Denton's psychometers,
caught sight of the King Psalmist in a retrospective image performing
the circle-dance of the Amazons around a priapic image, and thus
moved, gave birth to the sweet hymn of the
"
Mystic Dance."
..." Jesus dances, Moses dances. . . . Old King David dances, . . .
And with him Janak and Yudhistir." . . .
38 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
And why not ? The mystics and devotees of nearly every religion
and sect have at some time adopted the salutary exercise. There
was the
"
Dance of the Daughters of Shiloh
"
during the Jewish
Mysteries (Judges xxi. 21, 23 et passim) and the
"
Leaping of the
prophets of Baal
"
(1 Kings xviii. 26). From the Sabean dance —
denoting the motion of the planets round the sun —down to the
American Shakers of old Mother Lee, the truly religious bodies
found themselves occasionally possessed with Bacchic frenzy.
During their religious meetings the Shakers first sing a hymn, then
form a wide circle around a band of male and female singers, to the
music of whom they dance in a solemn rhythm, until " moved by
the spirit they begin prophesying and speaking with tongues."
Dancing was established as a rite, together with the kiss of charity,
by the Agapsists, the venerable members of that primitive Christian
institution called the
"
Agapae
" which counted St. Augustine among
its influential members. Of these, the too plain-spoken Tertullian,
who had belonged to the sect and spoke from experience, said after he
had joined the Montanists : ..." In the Agapae, the young men
lay with their sisters, and wallowed in wantonness and luxury
"
(Treatise on Fasting, c. 17). Prominent among the modern and highly
philosophical dancing sects we may also place that of the Methodist
negro
"
jumpers
"
of the United States. The piety and zeal of these
humble "descendants of Ham," during religious service, baffles
description and puts the infidel to shame. They have been even
known to make frantic efforts to catch at the legs of Jesus, whom
they affirm having seen above their heads in all His glory, and so to
forcibly bring their Redeemer down to land in their midst ; their
fury of zeal endowing them with the agility of a Hanuman and
making them jump in dancing higher than the benches. Then,
again, we have the Russian dissenters called Molokans and the
Doohobory, two jumping sects, whose elders bring promiscuously
together persons of both sexes to dance and pray—disrobed and in
utter darkness ; who choose their own
"
Mother Virgin
"—the
community representing collectively the
"
Spirit of God
"
; and who
recognize her subsequent first male progeny as Christ, and set aside
the female issue as material for future "virgins." Verily dancing
with, before, and for
"
the Lord
"
is an old institution, and must have
been adopted by the Christian sect-founders to avoid the accusation
contained in Matthew and Luke :
"
We have piped unto you and
ye have not danced." Babu Keshub's New Dispensation containing,
as we hear,
"
pipings
"
from every religion, especially from those of
Mahomedanism, and Christianity, whose vow of poverty and sacra
ment it has adopted, did not, of course, wish to be outdone by
Dervishes, Shakers and Negro-Methodists. Let the Grihasta-
Vairagis of the Calcutta Church, by all means
"
go forth in the
A POSTHUMOUS PUBLICATION 39
dances of them that make merry." They have our Theosophical
blessing.
Following is the text unabridged of the New Dispensation's
Hymn of the
"
Mystic Dance,"1 as we find it in the organ of that
sect, and which we will venture to call—A Cotillion of Saints.
In short, the whole company of the apostles and martyrs in the
various "heavenly masions
" seem to have been bitten by the
tarantula. Our European and American members will perhaps sigh
to think that in so promiscuous a quadrille of saints and sinners —
there should have been no room for the
" atheistic Theosophical
Society." Is it, we wonder, because the Bengal Psalmist thought
it would be straining metaphor too far to picture such thoughtful
and sedate persons as moving in
" the mazy
"
and
"
tripping it on
the light fantastic toe
" ?
A POSTHUMOUS PUBLICATION
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 211-212.]
We are glad to lay before our readers the first of a series of unpub
lished writings of the late Eliphas Levi (Abb6 Louis Constant), one
of the great masters of occult sciences of the present century in the
West. An ex-Catholic priest, he was unfrocked by the ecclesiastical
authorities at Rome, who tolerate no belief in God, Devil or Science
outside the narrow circle of their circumscribed dogma, and who
anathematize every creed-crushed soul that succeeds in breaking
its mental bondage.
"
Just in the ratio that knowledge increases,
faith diminishes ; consequently, those that know the most, always
believe the least
"
said Carlyle. Eliphas Levi knew much ;
far more than the privileged few even among the greatest mystics
of modern Europe ; hence, he was traduced by the ignorant many.
He had written these ominous words : . . .
" The discovery of the
great secrets of true religion and of the primitive science of the Magi,
revealing to the world the unity of the universal dogma, annihilates
fanaticism by scientifically explaining and giving the reason for
every miracle," and these words sealed his doom. Religious bigotry
persecuted him for disbelieving in
" divine
" miracle ; bigoted
materialism for using the word
" miracle
"
and
"
prodigy
"
; dog
matic science, for attempting to explain that which she could not
yet explain herself, and in which, therefore, she disbelieved. The
author of The Dogma and Ritual of High Magic, of the Science of
Spirits and of The Key to the Great Mysteries, died, as his famous
1
[These verses have been omitted. —Ed.]
40 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
predecessors in the occult arts, Cornelius Agrippa, Paracelsus and
many others did—a pauper. Of all the parts of the world, Europe is
the one which stones her true prophets the most cruelly, while
being led by the nose by the false ones the most successfully.
Europe will prostrate herself before any idol, provided it flatters
her preconceived hobbies and loudly appeals to, and proclaims her
superior intelligence. Christian Europe will believe in divine and
demoniacal miracles and in the infallibility of a book condemned
out of its own mouth, and consisting of old exploded legends.
Spiritualistic Europe will fall into ecstasies before the Eidolon of a
medium—when it is not a sheet and a clumsy mask—and remain
firmly convinced of the reality of the apparitions of ghosts and the
spirits of the dead. Scientific Europe will laugh Christians and
Spiritualists to scorn, destroy all and build nothing, limiting herself
to preparing arsenals of materials which she knows not in most cases
what to do with, and whose inner nature is still a mystery for her.
And then all the three agreeing in everything else to disagree, will
combine their efforts to put down a science hoary with age and
ancient wisdom, the only science which is capable of making religion
—scientific, science —religious, and of ridding human Intelligence
of the thick cobwebs of Conceit and Superstition.
The' article that follows is furnished to us by an esteemed Fellow
of the Theosophical Society, and a pupil of Eliphas Levi. Having
lost a dear friend who committed suicide, the great master of the
occult science was desired by our correspondent and his pupil to
give his views upon the state of the soul of the felo-de-se. He did
so ; and it is with the kind permission of his pupil, that we now
translate and publish his manuscript. Though personally we are
far from agreeing with all his opinions—for having been a priest,
Eliphas Levi could never rid himself to his last day of a certain
theological bias—we are yet prepared to always lend a respectful
ear to the teachings of so learned a Kabalist. Like Agrippa and, to
a certain extent, Paracelsus himself, Abbe Constant may be termed
a Biblical or Christian Kabalist, though Christ was in his sight
more of an ideal than of a living Man-God or an historical personage.
Moses and Christ, if real entities, were human initiates into the
arcane mysteries in his opinion ; Jesus was the type of regenerated
humanity, the deific principle being shown under a human form
but to prove humanity alone divine. The mysticism of the official
church which seeks to absorb the human in the divine nature of
Christ, is strongly criticized by her ex-representative. More than
anything else Eliphas Levi is then a Jewish Kabalist. But were we
even so much disposed to alter or amend the teachings of so great a
master in Occultism, it would be more than improper to do so now,
since he is no longer alive to defend and expound his positions.
FOOTNOTES TO
"
A SUICIDE'S AFTER-STATE "
41
We leave the unenviable task of kicking dead and dying lions to the
jackasses —voluntary undertakers of all attacked reputations.
Hence, though we do not personally agree with all his views, we do
concur in the verdict of the world of letters that Eliphas Levi was
one of the cleverest, most learned and interesting of writers upon
all such abstruse subjects.
FOOTNOTES TO "A SUICIDE'S AFTER-STATE"
By Eliphas Levi
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 212-213.]
[Describing the state of suicides after death, the writer says among
other things :
"
You may help the poor deserter of life, with
'
prayer
'
—but that prayer must be one of action, not words. See whether he
has not left something undone, . . . and then try to accomplish the
deed for him, and in his name." To this H. P. B. remarks :]
The Kabalistic theory is, that a man having so many years, days
and hours to live upon earth and not one minute less than the
period allotted to him by fate, whenever the Ego gets consciously
and deliberately rid of its body before the hour marked, for then must
it still live even as a disembodied suffering soul. The Ego, or the
sentient individual soul is unable to free itself from the attraction of
the earth and has to vegetate and suffer all the torments of the
mythical hell in it. It becomes an Elementary Spirit ; and when
the hour of deliverance strikes, the soul having learned nothing, and
in its mental torture lost the remembrance of the little it knew on
earth it is violently ejected out of the earth's atmosphere and
carried adrift, a prey to the blind current which forces it into some
new reincarnation which the soul itself is unable to select as it other
wise might with the help of its good actions. . . .
"
The souls disenthralled from their earthly fetters elevate our
own to themselves ; and in our turn our souls can attract them
down, through a power similar to that of the magnet."
It would be an error to infer from the above that Eliphas Levi
believed in the so-called Spiritualism. He derided both the Spirit
ualistic and the Spiritist theory of the return of the disembodied
souls or spirits in an objective or materialized form on earth. Teach
ing the Kabalistic doctrine of the subjective inter-communication
between the embodied and the disembodied spirits, and the mutual
influence exercised by those souls, that influence is limited by him
to purely psychological and moral effects, and lasts but so long as
the pure soul slumbers in its transitory state in the ether, or the
42 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
sinful one (the Elementary Spirit) is kept in bondage in the earthly
regions.
" But the sinful souls suffer two kinds of torture. One is the
result of their imperfect disenthralment from the terrestrial bonds
which keeps them down chained to our planet ; the other is owing
to a lack of
'
celestial magnet.'
"
Celestial magnet means here that spiritual buoyancy (the absence
of sinful deeds and thoughts supposed to be possessed of a material
heaviness) which alone is enabled to carry the disembodied Soul to
higher or rather to purer regions.
FOOTNOTES TO " A LETTER FROM
SOORB-0 VANESS"
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 213-215.]
" Forthwith I was apprized of the novel geological discovery that
Ararat had formed once upon a time part and parcel of Allah-Dag,
but falling into the hands of the Persians it broke away from the
latter and placed itself on Christian territory, leaving in its pre
cipitate flight the
'
sacred
'
ark in the safe keeping of Allah-Dag.
Since then Mathan refuses to give it up."
In George Smith's History of Babylonia, the author expresses an
opinion to the effect that the Biblical Ararat "does not mean the
mountain now called Ararat, but a mountainous country south of
this and near the lake Van
"
(p. 50). The great Assyriologist can
hardly have heard of that popular tradition and must have been
prompted to say this on some knowledge grounded upon weightier
reasons than popular tradition. But one corroborates the other.
"... the Armenians . . . call themselves Haiks, the descen
dants of Haig, a contemporary of Bilu (Belus), a king of the Baby
lonians who deified and worshipped him after death as a Sun and
Moon God."
Not to be confounded with the Sun-Gods Belus and Baal —two
far more ancient deities.
"... during the days of the Chaldean King Ubara-Tutu — '
the
glow of sunset,'—the last but one of the antediluvian kings of
Berosus."
During the milleniums rather, since, according to the chronology
left to us by Berosus, the reign of that king lasted 8 sari or 28,800
years.
" Each and all of these aquarian teachers came from his habitat,
in lands unknown ascending from the Persian Gulf."
FOOTNOTES TO
"
THE FIVE-POINTED STAR "
43
One of the cylinders states that this sea was part of the great
chaotic deep out of which our world was formed ; the celestial region
where the
"
gods and spirits
"
(the initiated Magi, or Sons of God)
dwelt was in their neighbourhood, but not in their country.
"
The Armenians, . . . had accepted the name of Ovaness for
their Chaldean man-fish Annedotus. They were easily made to
believe that
'
Ovaness the Baptist
'
who led them into the water, was
identical with Ovaness or Oannes, who had instructed their fore
fathers arising out of, setting in, and replunging back into the water
before, during and after the preaching."
"
Joannes the Baptist who is usually associated with waters, is
but a Petro-Paulite name and symbol of the Hebrew Jonah (the
Jonas swallowed by the whale) and the Assyrian Oannes. . . .
The fishermen and fishers of man in the Gospels are based on this
mythos
"
(Enoch, the Book of God, Vol. II, 80). This appears the
more probable as the Mahomedan inhabitants of Mosul, near the
ruins of Nineveh, have assumed for centuries that the mound called
by them—"
Nebbi Yunus
"—contained the tomb or sepulchre of
the prophet Jonah, on its summit ; while the excavations of Layard
brought to light on the neighbouring mount Konyunjik a colossal
image of the Fish-God Oannes —the cause most probably of the
later legend.
FOOTNOTES TO
"
THE FIVE-POINTED STAR "
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 215-217.]
[In a letter to H. P. Blavatsky, C. H. Van der Linden seeks an
explanation of certain unusual experiences that had befallen him
and encloses a letter written by him to Col. Bundy of the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, on the same subject. He says in part :
"
Some
will call me insane, others a dreamer, the majority of humanity an
imposter." To this H. P. B. replies : ]
Most undoubtedly they will ; and every member of the Theoso-
phical Society—unless he keeps all such occult and psychological
personal experience to himself and strictly secret —must be prepared
for it. A public (including the best society) —ready at any day to
turn round upon its idols and authorities and, dashing them to
pieces, to pelt them with stones and trample into the mud such
men of science as Professors Hare and Zollner, Messrs. Wallace and
Crookes, for no better reason than that they found themselves
compelled to recognize certain phenomena as facts and to honestly
proclaim them as such —is not likely to show itself more lenient
towards such humble individuals as we are.
[In telling of his experiences he says :
" A few days ago my wife
had agonizing cramps in the abdomen. I magnetized her, making
44 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
unintentionally in my motions, the figure of the five-pointed star
over the suffering parts and lo ! the cramp disappeared as by en
chantment. . . . Has this sign anything to do with it ?
"
His letter to Col. Bundy tells of his lying at midnight
"
dozing but
conscious. . . ." He noticed near his bed a
"
person in ancient
garb
" who spoke to him saying :
"
Unknowingly you used a secret
to relieve your wife's pains a few days ago, which secret, when
generally known, would change the practice of medicine to a very
great extent. ... I will teach you how to apply it personally . . .
only one promise I demand in return . . . never reveal the secret of
it to anyone outside your own family. ..." In conclusion the
writer says :
"
Science itself becomes corrupt for it refuses to either
accept or investigate facts." To this H. P. B. remarks : ]
Many men of science do, on the contary. But it requires a man
of no ordinary moral courage to face the storm of criticism which
the avowal of such investigations —especially when successful —
brings upon the experimenter. See Professor Zollner's Transcen
dental Physics, and Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism,
by Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., and judge for yourself.
Such visitations by "Orientals" as the one with which our
Brother, Mr. Van der Linden was favoured, become rather frequent
in our days. We have several letters to the same effect . No explana
tion, however, we venture to say, would do any good, unless preceded
by a long study and a thorough understanding of the occult laws of
"
magnetic correspondences
"
so-called. First let us see whether
by the accumulation of testimony for identical results, we have a
right to include this mysterious influence among facts. It is prema
ture for us to speak of such things when even the scientific
hypothesis of Professor Zollner's fourth dimension of space finds
so little favour in the eyes of the materialist. Meanwhile, we
append to this contribution another letter upon the same subject
from a Parsee gentleman, an F.T.S., a full-blown sceptic but
yesterday, but whose scepticism was a little staggered by the same
results.
[The letter appended to the above is from Darasha Doshabhoy.
Besides relating an experience similar to the one of C. H. Van der
Linden, with regard to the effects of the pentagram, he writes of
having been much impressed by a story of Reincarnation written by
a Kshattriya lady, and published in The Theosophist, (Vol. II, May,
1881). He says :
" I now find that the lady's story confirms my
suspicions as it stands to reason that as nothing increases or de
creases in this perishable world of matter, the atma of one as soon
as it leaves the frame or body enters into another. ... I am still
half sceptical about what it is or what it should be. . . ."]
What it is or
"
should be
"
is incapable of scientific demonstration.
What it is not and cannot be is pretty well verified though. It is
A REPLY TO OUR CRITICS 45
neither
"
harp
"
nor
"
wings
"
on a bodiless head with nothing but
its ears to sit upon —and that alone is a comfort.
A REPLY TO OUR CRITICS
(Our final answer to several objections.)
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 217-218.]
In the ordinary run of daily life speech may be silver, while
" silence is gold." With the editors of periodicals devoted to some
special object
"
silence
"
in certain cases amounts to cowardice and
false pretences. Such shall not be our case.
We are perfectly aware of the fact that the simple presence of the
word
"
Spiritualism
" on the title-page of our journal,
" causes it
to lose in the eyes of materialist and sceptic fifty per cent of its
value
"—for we are repeatedly told so by many of our best friends,
some of whom promise us more popularity, hence —an increase of
subscribers, would we but take out the
"
contemptible
"
term and
replace it by some other, synonymous in meaning, but less obnoxious
phonetically to the general public. That would be acting under
false pretences. The undisturbed presence of the unpopular word
will indicate our reply.
That we did not include
"
Spiritualism
"
among the other subjects
to which our journal is devoted
" in the hopes that it should do us
good service among the Spiritualists
"
is proved by the following fact :
From the first issue of our Prospectus to the present day, subscribers
from
"
Spiritual
"
quarters have not amounted to four per cent on
our subscription list. Yet, to our merriment, we are repeatedly spoken
of as
"
Spiritualists
"
by the Press and—our opponents. Whether
really ignorant of, or purposely ignoring our views, they tax us with
belief in spirits. Not that we would at all object to the appellation
—too many far worthier and wiser persons than we, firmly believing
in
"
Spirits
"—but that would be acting under
"
false pretences
"
again. And so, we are called a
"
Spiritualist
"
by persons who
foolishly regard the term as a
" brand," while the orthodox Spiri
tualists, who are well aware that we attribute their phenomena to
quite another agency than spirits, resent our peculiar opinions as an
insult to their belief, and in their turn ridicule and oppose us.
This fact alone ought to prove, if anything ever will, that our
journal pursues an honest policy. That established for the one and
sole object, namely, for the elucidation of truth, however unpopular,
it has remained throughout true to its first principle —that of
absolute impartiality. And that as fully answers another charge,
viz., that of publishing views of our correspondents with which we
46 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
often do not concur ourselves.
" Your journal teems with articles
upholding ridiculous superstitions and absurd ghost-stories," is the
complaint in one letter.
" You neglect laying a sufficient stress in
your editorials upon the necessity of discrimination between facts
and error, and in the selection of the matter furnished by your
contributors,
' '
says another. A third one accuses us of not su fficiently
rising
" from supposed facts, to principles, which would prove to
our readers in every case the former no better than fictions." In
other words—as we understand it—we are accused of neglecting
scientific induction. Our critics may be right but neither are we
altogether wrong. In the face of the many crucial and strictly
scientific experiments made by our most eminent savants,1 it would
take a wiser sage than King Solomon himself to decide now between
fact and fiction. The query,
"
What is truth ?
" is more difficult
to answer in the nineteenth than in the first century of our era.
The appearance of his
" evil genius
" to Brutus in the shape of a
monstrous human form, which, entering his tent in the darkness and
silence of night, promised to meet him in the plains of Philippi—
was a fact to the Roman tyrannicide ; it was but a dream to his
slaves who neither saw nor heard anything on that night. The
existence of an antipodal continent and the heliocentric system
were facts to Columbus and Galileo years before they could actually
demonstrate them ; yet the existence of America, as that of our
present solar system, was as fiercely denied several centuries back
as the phenomena of Spiritualism are now. Facts existed in the
"
pre-scientific past," and errors are as thick as berries in our
scientific present. With whom then, is the criterion of truth to be
left ? Are we to abandon it to the mercy and judgment of a pre
judiced society constantly caught trying to subvert that which it
does not understand ; ever seeking to transform sham and hypocrisy
into synonyms of
"
propriety
" and
"
respectability
"
? Or shall we
blindly leave it to modern exact Science, so-called ? But Science has
neither said her last word, nor can her various branches of knowledge
rejoice in their qualification of exact, but so long as the hypotheses
of yesterday are not upset by the discoveries of to-day.
" Science is
atheistic, phantasmagorical, and always in labour with conjecture.
It can never become knowledge per se. Not to know is its climax,"
says Prof. A. Wilder, our New York Vice-President, certainly more
of a man of science himself than many a scientist better known than
he is to the world. Moreover, the learned representatives of the
Royal Society have as many cherished hobbies, and are as little
free of prejudice and preconception as any other mortals. It is
perhaps, to religion and her handmaid theology, with her
"
seventy-
times seven
"
sects, each claiming and none proving its right to the
[' See the Article following this :
"
Science, Phenomena and the Press." — Ed.]
A REPLY TO OUR CRITICS 47
claim of truth, that, in our search for it we ought to humbly turn ?
One of our severe Christian Areopagites actually expresses the fear
that "even some of the absurd stories of the Puranas have found
favour with The Theosophist." But let him tell us, has the Bible any
less
" absurd ghost -stories
"
and
" ridiculous miracles
" in it than
the Hindu Puranas and Buddhist Maha- Jataka, or even one of the
most
"
shamefully superstitious publications
" of the Spiritualists ?
(We quote from his letter.) We are afraid in all and one it is but :
Faith, fanatic faith, once wedded fast
To some dear falsehood, hugs it to the last. . . .
and—we decline accepting anything on faith. In common with
most of the periodicals we remind our readers in every number of
The Theosophist that its
"
Editors disclaim responsibility for opinions
expressed by contributors," with some of which they (we) do not
agree. And that is all we can do. We never started out in our paper
as Teachers, but rather as humble and faithful recorders of the in
numerable beliefs, creeds, scientific hypotheses, and—even "super
stitions
"
current in the past ages and now more than lingering yet
in our own. Never having been a sectarian —i.e. an interested party
—we maintain that in the face of the present situation, during that
incessant warfare, in which old creeds and new doctrines, conflicting
schools and authorities, revivals of blind faith and incessant scientific
discoveries running a race as though for the survival of the fittest,
swallow up and mutually destroy and annihilate each other—daring,
indeed, were that man who would assume the task of deciding between
them ! Who, we ask, in the presence of those most wonderful and
most unexpected achievements of our great physicists and chemists
would risk to draw the line of demarcation between the possible and
the impossible? Where is the honest man who conversant at all
with the latest conclusions of archaeology, philology, palaeography,
and especially Assyriology, would undertake to prove the superiority
of the religious
"
superstitions
" of the civilized Europeans over
those of the
" heathen," and even of the fetish-worshipping
savages ?
Having said so much, we have made clear, we hope, the reason
why, believing no mortal man infallible, nor claiming that privilege
for ourselves, we open our columns to the discussion of every view
and opinion, provided it is not proved absolutely supernatural.
Besides, whenever we make room to " unscientific
"
contributions
it is when these treat upon subjects which lie entirely out of the
province of physical science —generally upon questions that the
average and dogmatic scientist rejects a priori and without examina
tion ; but which, the real man of science finds not only possible, but
after investigation very often fearlessly proclaims the disputed
question as an undeniable fact. In respect to most transcendental
48 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
subjects the sceptic can no more disprove than the believer prove his
point. Fact is the only tribunal we submit to and recognize it
without appeal. And before that tribunal a Tyndall and an
ignoramus stand on a perfect par. Alive to the truism that every
path may eventually lead to the highway as every river to the
ocean, we never reject a contribution simply because we do not
believe in the subject it treats upon, or disagree with its conclusions.
Contrast alone can enable us to appreciate things at their right value ;
and unless a judge compares notes and hears both sides he can
hardly come to a correct decision. Dum vitant stulti vitia in contraria
—is our motto ; and we seek to prudently walk between the many
ditches without rushing into either. For one man to demand from
another that he shall believe like himself, whether in a question of
religion or science is supremely unjust and despotic. Besides, it is
absurd. For it amounts to exacting that the brains of the convert,
his organs of perception, his whole organization, in short, be recon
structed precisely on the model of that of his teacher, and, that he
shall have the same temperament and mental faculties as the other
has. And why not his nose and eyes, in such a case ? Mental
slavery is the worst of all slaveries. It is a state which, as brutal
force has no real power, always denotes either an abject cowardice
or a great intellectual weakness.
Among many other charges, we are accused of not sufficiently
exercising our editorial right of selection. We beg to differ and
contradict the imputation. As every other person blessed with
brains instead of calves'-feet jelly in his head, we certainly have our
opinions upon things in general, and things occult especially, to
some of which we hold very firmly. But these being our personal
views, and though we have as good a right to them as any, we have
none whatever to force them for recognition upon others. We do
not believe in the activity of
"
departed spirits
"—others and among
these, many of the Fellows of the Theosophical Society do—and we
are bound to respect their opinions, so long as they respect ours.
To follow every article from a contributor with an Editor's Note
correcting "his erroneous ideas" would amount to turning our
strictly impartial journal into a sectarian organ. We decline such
an office of
" Sir Oracle."
The Theosophist is a journal of our Society. Each of its Fellows
being left absolutely untrammelled in his opinions, and the body
representing collectively nearly every creed, nationality and school
of philosophy, every member has a right to claim room in the organ
of his Society for the defence of his own particular creed and views.
Our Society being an absolute and uncompromising Republic of
Conscience, preconception and narrow-mindedness in science and
philosophy have no room in it. They are as hateful and as much
SCIENCE, PHENOMENA AND THE PRESS 49
denounced by us as dogmatism and bigotry in theology ; and this
we have repeated usque ad nauseam.
Having explained our position, we will close with the following
parting words to our sectarian friends and critics. The materialists
and sceptics who upbraid us in the name of modern Science —the
Dame who always shakes her head and finger in scorn at everything
she has not yet fathomed—we would remind of the suggestive but
too mild words of the great Arago :
"
He is a rash man, who outside
of pure mathematics pronounces the word
'
impossible.'
" And to
theology, which under her many orthodox masks throws mud at us
from behind every secure corner, we retort by Victor Hugo's
celebrated paradox : "In the name of Religion we protest against
all and every religion I
"
SCIENCE, PHENOMENA AND THE PRESS
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 218-220.]
Fiat Justitia, ruat caelum is not the motto of our century. Nothing
is so amusing as to watch at every fresh exposure of some tricky
medium—of whom there are a good many—the attitude of the Press
in general, and those time-serving editors of pseudo first-class papers
—of whom there are still more —especially. In order to flatter the
sympathies, and bow to the prejudices of their subscribers, they,
who speak in terms of the utmost veneration of a church they often
do not believe in, will, at the same time, denounce, in the most
objurgatory and vituperative language, spiritualism in which they
occasionally themselves believe, and Theosophy of whose tenets they
know next to nothing.
Such is the present attitude of some Anglo-Indian papers in
relation to the Fletcher case. The trial and sentence to hard labour
of Mrs. Fletcher —who was punished for fraudulently obtaining
valuables and not at all for being, or rather not being a medium—
seems to have thrown some of them into ecstacies of joy. Two of
them especially —one a Lahore and the other an Allahabad paper—
have got quite off their balance and gone beating about the bush
after those
"
impostors calling themselves Theosophists and
Spiritualists
"
(! ?) We seriously doubt whether the respective
editors of the two above-mentioned papers could ever hope for the
high honour of being received into the company of even the flunkeys
of some of our titled
"
Spiritualists and Theosophists
"
of England,
whom they include in the category of
"
impostors." But, as there
is every probability, in the case in hand, of a certain professional
envy on their part against spiritual mediums, their irritation may
D
50 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
have its raison d'etre. The mediums
"
produce
" while these editors
"absorb" spirits. Hence —with an eye to their incurable and
well-known bibacity we have to be charitable. One, who is generally
as drunk as David's sow, can hardly be made responsible for what he
says. The phenomena of obsession and possession assuming most
varied forms, one medium will be obsessed by "an imaginary
goblin," while another one will be possessed
—by the seven fiends of
drink. Hence we accuse the two
"
medium-editors
" of gross incon
sistency. For, if the public is made to credit the witty definition of
that American reporter who notified the world of his discovery that
" materialized spirits are but frozen whiskey," they ought certainly
to show themselves a little more grateful toward their brother
mediums than they do. Leaving, however, English and Yankee-
Irish editors to the tender mercies of delirium tremens and the
spiritual snakes in their boots, we will broach our subject at once.
That spiritualism has made itself unpopular, is an undeniable
fact. That its phenomena have become so, chiefly owing to claims of
supernatural intervention for them, to the agency of spirits in the
production of the manifestations, is as incontrovertible. But when
the sceptic has once pronounced in tones of contempt the tabooed
word
"
Spiritualism," is there one man in ten thousand who fully
realizes the meaning of that which he so abuses ? Is it Spiritualism
proper that is denounced ? Or, that faith which professes blind
belief in the communication of the living men with the spirits of
their departed friends, through mediums ? Or, is it only belief in
the occurrence of occult phenomena that the average public so
strongly objects to ? Which ?
And now, we are inclined to demonstrate, that were Society—
Christians and materialists included—ever capable of acting with
anything like impartiality, and of reasoning its antipathies before it
became entirely blinded by its prejudices, spiritualism could never
have become its bete noire as it now has. At all events, whether
judged from its social, or examined from its philosophical standard,
it stands certainly higher than any of the sects of the
"
revivalists
"
—against which Society has nevertheless, not a word to say. Since
its ranks are composed chiefly from the well-educated classes, and
spiritualism was never half as aggressive and offensive as we find
most of the sects of dissenters, the public has no right to taboo it,
as it does.
However it may be, as the policy of our paper is to present all
things in their truelight, we mean now to seriously analyse spiritual
ism. Owing to long years of study, we believe we are more com
petent to judge of it than those who really know nothing of it—as the
native and the Anglo-Indian press for instance. On the other hand,
our own theories as to the agency producing most of the phenomena
SCIENCE PHENOMENA AND THE PRESS 51
being diametrically antagonistic to those of the Spiritualists —the
accusation of partiality in our case can but fall to the ground. We
will now show the inconsistency of the anti-Spiritualists of all
classes.
If it is against
"
Spiritualism
"
proper that the public wrath
waxes so hot, then every Christian who abuses it is untrue to his
creed. He plays into the hands of Infidelity. Besides having been
used for ages in contradistinction to that of materialism the word
spiritualism served no farther back than the first half of our century
to designate the doctrines and religious life of that class of Christian
mystics who believed themselves to be under the guidance of the
Divine Spirit ; the adjective
"
Spiritualist
" having been always
applied to those persons who spiritualized the Jewish Scriptures.
In the past centuries such was the appellation given to Jacob Bohme,
Madame Guyon, Miguel de Molinas and other Quietists and Mystics,
In our present age it belongs by right to the Shakers of America,
and even more so to the "Apostles
" of the Calcutta New Dispen
sation, than to the lay believers in mediumistic phenomena, who —
we are sorry to say instead of spiritualizing matter, materialize
Spirit. ... As the notion stands though, the most that could be
brought by orthodox Christians against modern Spiritualism is the
accusation of being one of the many heretical Christian sects of the
day. Not only have the majority of Spiritualists retained their
belief in the Bible and Christianity, but even the most infidel among
them do no worse than the Unitarians —who assert the simple
humanity of Christ, contending that he was no more than a divinely
illuminated prophet—a medium, say the Spiritualists. Hence
Spiritualism as a sect has as much a right for recognition and at least,
outward respect as any other Christian sect. But it is perhaps their
peculiar belief that is so hateful to the unbelievers? Another and
still grosser inconsistency I For how can belief in spirits, the sur
viving souls of departed men —quite an orthodox Christian dogma —
be held disreputable by a Christian public ? We do not mean to
be disrespectful but only fair, in asking the following question :
Were a sane person placed under the necessity of choosing, but had
yet the privilege of a free choice, which of the two stories, think ye,
he would accept as the most likely to have occurred : that of a
materialized angel and the she-ass whose mouth was opened by the
Lord to speak to Balaam in a human voice, or that of Mr. Crookes'
materialized Katie King ? It really would not be generous in us to
insist upon a direct answer. But we will do this : placing the
Spiritualists on one side, and the Christian Adventists or Millenar-
ians on the other, we will offer our reader a bird's-eye view of both.
The former, in company with more than one eminent man of science,
will be represented by us at his great disadvantage ; namely, in a
52 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
spiritual circle, in a half -darkened, room singing in chorus a spiritual
melody, and anxiously waiting for the apparition of a materialized
relative. . . . The Millenarian —surrounded by his family and house
hold gods roosting on the top of a tree, or the roof of his house,
singing Christian psalms and waiting as anxiously for his Christ
to appear and carry them all away into heaven over a crumbling
universe ! . . . We insist that our readers should not misunderstand
us. We laugh no more at the faith of the Millenarian who, notwith
standing many such days of failure when instead of catching hold
of his Saviour, he found himself drenched to the bones, caught a bad
cold and was occasionally killed by lightning,1 than we deride that
of the believer in the materializations. We simply ask why should
the press and the public permit themselves to despise and laugh to
scorn the Spiritualist, while hardly daring to mention, let alone laugh,
at the beliefs of the former ? Learned divines meet and seriously
discuss and devise means "to be caught up together in the clouds
to meet the Lord in the air." Dr. Tyng, one of the best educated
clergymen of New York, actually pronounces these words :
"
Yes ;
we firmly believe in the coming advent. A conference was held in
London in February last, and the result was gratifying. ... At
this coming the dead that have died in Christ will rise first, and then
those of his children who are alive will be caught up into the clouds
with them, and their bodies will undergo a change, and they will
dwell in heavenly places for a season
"
! !
Hence—the logical induction : So long as the Christian public
professes belief in, and veneration for its ancestral faith, it behoves
them little to throw the accusation of
"
degrading superstitions and
credulity
" into the teeth of spiritualism. They are no better than
1 Hardly a few years since such a case happened in America to some unlucky
Millenarians the elders of whose churches had prophesied the day and the hour of
the second advent of Christ. They had sold their properties and given it away ;
settled their worldly affairs after which most of them climbed on that solemn day
to the highest trees and hills. A shower, accompanied by a terrible thunder-storm
and lightning brought two of the Adventist families together with their trees down
to the ground instead of taking them Elijah-like to heaven. And that the belief of
a physical advent of Christ is not confined to the ignorant classes alone is proved by
the following clip from an American newspaper of 1878.
" A circular has been issued signed by the Rev. Dr. James H. Brookes of the
Presbyterian Church, St. Louis ; the Rev. Dr. Stephen H. Tyng, Jr., of this city ;
Bishop W. R. Nicholson of the Reformed Episcopal Church, Philadelphia ; W. Y.
Morehead ; the Revd. A. J. Gordon of the Clarendon Street Baptist Church, Boston ;
Maurice Baldwin ; the Rev. H. M. Parsons of the Presbyterian Church, Buffalo ;
and the Rev. Dr. Rufus W. Clarke of the Dutch Reformed Church, Albany, inviting
those who believe in the personal pre-millennial advent of Jesus Christ to meet at the
Church of the Holy Trinity in this city, on the 30th and 31st of October and the 1st
of November, to listen to a series of papers on the pre-millenial advent of Jesus
Christ, and to join in such discussions as the topics may suggest. A large number of
professors, ministers, and laymen have endorsed the call. Among them are the
older Tyng, Bishop Vail of Kansas, Professor Kellogg of Alleghany Presbyterian
Seminary, the Rev. Dr. Imbrie of Jersey City, George T. Pentecost, the Boston
Evangelist, and other well-known men." —New York Sun.
THE EVIDENCE OF SCIENCE 53
the hypocrites denounced in Luke ; those who are commanded by
Jesus to cast out first the beam of their own eye, and then offer to
pull out the mote that is in their brother's organ of sight. As for
those gentlemen of the press, who, lacking the courage to denounce
the superstitions of the strong and the mighty, fall back upon those
whose unpopularity has made them weak and helpless, they act
more than in a cowardly way. They are the
"
Bashi-Boozooks
"
of Mrs. Grundy's army—those, who under the cover of darkness
and in perfect safety to themselves spoil and finish the wounded.
The Theosophists and Spiritualists have at least the courage of their
opinions. They openly and fearlessly proclaim their heterodox and
unpopular beliefs and face the enemy's fire without flinching. How
many of our colleagues of the press will dare to follow our example ?
Verily, the ugly cancer of sham and hypocrisy has gnawed down to
the very bone of educated Society ! We find truthfulness and moral
courage now, but in a few atheists, who, like Bradlaugh and Colonel
Ingersoll bravely defy the whole world. Even great and independent
men like Tyndall, cower down before public wrath. He who did
not blush to speak of Spiritualism as
" an intellectual whoredom
"
was made before the storm of indignation raised by him among the
English clergy to half recant his publicly expressed scientific opinion
of the absolute
"
potency of matter." But he never thought of
offering an apology for his insult to those of his scientific colleagues
who believed in Spiritual phenomena. . . .
And now dropping off the adjective
"
Spiritual
"
from the word
phenomena —let us see how far sceptics are justified in throwing a
slur upon the latter and to reject the testimony of the greatest men
of modern Science in favour of their genuineness. And that, when
ever a scientist went to the trouble of seriously investigating the
phenomena, he was forced to admit the objective reality of these
weird manifestations is henceforth an historical fact. And it is
precisely that which we purpose to prove in the next article.
THE EVIDENCE OF SCIENCE
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, pp. 220-221.]
From Professor Hare, the great American chemist, of world-wide
celebrity, a quarter of a century ago, down to Professor Zbllner, the
Leipzig astronomer in 1878, each and all of the men of Science who,
undertaking to expose the so-called Spiritual phenomena in the name
of science, went yet to work honestly at their investigation —found
themselves baffled and finally completely beaten by facts.
So, in 1853, Professor Hare publicly expressed the following
54 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
determination :
" I feel called upon as an act of duty to my fellow-
creatures, to bring whatever influence I possess to the attempt to
stem the tide of popular madness, which, in defiance of reason and
science is fast setting in favour of the gross delusion called Spirit
ualism." (History of Spiritualism, pp. 115.) Two years later, and
after that man of science had brought his keenest acumen to bear
upon the phenomena, and had invented all kinds of machinery
through which he hoped to detect tricky mediums, but to no avail,
Professor Hare became a Spiritualist. The Harvard professors by
whom the learned doctor had been regarded for forty years as an
authority upon all scientific subjects, now denounced his
" insane
adherence to the gigantic humbug." But the phenomena were
found facts and had the best of him as they had of many more of
learned professors at various times.
In 1869 the Committee of the Dialectical Society of London,1
composed of twenty-eight persons of education and good public
repute, (among whom we find the names of Mr. Grattan Geary, the
present editor of the Bombay Gazette, of Mr. H. G. Atkinson, and of
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh —see Report of the Committee of the Dialectical
Society of London) after sittings with mediums for months, and
having applied to them the most crucial tests, was compelled to
acknowledge : 1st —That the phenomena that they had witnessed
were genuine, and impossible to simulate ; 2nd —That the most
extraordinary manifestations thoroughly upsetting many precon
ceived theories as to natural laws, did happen, and were undeniable."
Some had occurred in their own families.
In 1870 Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., had expressed his opinion in print
that he believed
"
the whole affair a superstition ... an unexplained
trick—a delusion of the senses." In 1875, in his letter upon Katie
King, the young lady
"
Spirit
"
who visited him for three years
during seances held in the presence of a number of men of science, we
find Mr. Crookes confessing as follows :—" To imagine the Katie
King of the last three years to be the result of imposture does more
violence to one's reason and common-sense than to believe her to be
what she herself affirms. ..." (a
"
spirit "). With that man of
science, the discoverer of Radiant Matter, that Force he had so
derided after a long course of honest and scientific investigations
had . . . "became not a matter of opinion but of absolute know
ledge."2
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, the great English naturalist, writes
in his preface to Miracles and Modern Spiritualism ..." Up to the
1 "
At a Meeting of the Council of the London Dialectical Society, held on the
26th January, 1869, on the motion of Dr. Edmunds, a committee was appointed to
investigate the phenomena alleged to be spiritual manifestations and to report
thereon." (Copy of the Minute of the Council.)
• Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism, p. 45.
THE EVIDENCE OF SCIENCE 55
time I first became acquainted with the facts of Spiritualism I was a
confirmed philosophical sceptic. I was so thorough and confirmed
a materialist that I would not at that time find a place in my mind
for the conception of a spiritual existence. . . . Facts, however, are
stubborn things. . . . The facts beat me. They compelled me to accept
them as facts . . . and led me to accept Spiritualism." (p. 7.)
Mr. Nicolas Wagner, Professor of Zoology at the St. Petersburg
University, writes at the beginning of his investigations :—" I
accepted Professor Butlerof's invitation to witness the phenomena
produced by the medium Home who lived in his house, with the
greatest mistrust and even aversion." At the end of about twenty
siances he closes a narrative full of the most inexplicable phenomena
upsetting every scientific hypotheses with the following admission :—
" I have presented a truthful account of facts witnessed by myself.
I desire that all those who will not believe me, may prove to me
that I am wrong ; but in such a case they will have to support their
case with facts as positive and as undeniable as those that forced me
to my present conviction, that the mediumistic phenomena are real
existing facts." (Messenger of Europe, 1876.) Nor has Professor
Wagner given up to this day his firm belief in the objective reality
of such manifestations ; for only a few months ago he closes another
article upon phenomena obtained, which are the repetition of Pro
fessor Zollner's experiments with Dr. Slade only with non-professional
mediums (ladies of high society) with these words :
"
Again these
facts convince us of the necessity of widening the domain of recog
nized science and its methods and means for the exploration of the
invisible and unknown world 1,1
Professor Butlerof of St. Petersburg, a chemist of the greatest
eminence and a member of the Academy of Sciences —one of the few
men of learning who, seeking in Science truth alone, feared not to
pass on to the minority-—has been investigating the phenomena for
many years. In the April number of the Rooskoy Vyestnik, an
orthodox journal of the greatest respectability, we find him beginning
a long and scientific article upon
"
Empiricism and Dogmatism
in the Domain of Mediumship
"
with an equivalent confession of
faith :—"
Firmly and fully convinced of the objective reality of
mediumistic phenomena, I find it necessary to point out in print the
first attempts made to connect some of these phenomena with
scientific hypotheses," he writes. And then he proceeds to enu
merate several great names, of men of science who struck
" rock
bottom
"
in Germany, in the shifting sands of phenomena, which
had hitherto eluded all scientific grasp. These are Dr. Zollner,
Professor of Physics and Astronomy in the University of Leipzig, who
1 See Transcendental Physics\ p. 148, translation by Charles Carleton Massey,
Barrister-at-Law (Vice-President of the British Theosophical Society).
56 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
stands in the front rank of the scientific men of Europe ; Dr. Fichte,
the son of the celebrated German philosopher, for years Professor of
Philosophy at the University of Tubingen, 1
and who was at first the
greatest sceptic and opponent of the theory which upheld the reality
of the phenomena ; Dr. Wilhelm Weber, Professor of Physics —the
founder of the doctrine of the Vibration of Forces.
"
No scientific
reputation stands higher in Germany than that of Weber
"
(Trans-
scendental Physics, p. 18). Professor Perty of Geneva ; Professor
Sheibner, of Leipzig University, "a well-known and highly dis-
guished mathematician
"
; Dr. Gustave T. Fechner, an eminent
natural philosopher, another Professor of Physics at Leipzig, and von
Hoffman ; Baron von Hellenbach of Vienna, etc. etc. Many of
these, namely, Professors Weber, Sheibner, Fechner and others,
have been witness to M. Zollner's scientific experiments with Dr.
Slade, the medium, and have taken part in them. Speaking of the
physical phenomena which had taken place in that medium's
presence, Professor Zollner says as follows —" I reserve to later
publication the descriptions of further experiments, obtained by me
in twelve siances with Mr. Slade, and as I am expressly authorized
to mention in the presence of my friends and colleagues, Professor
Fechner, Professor Wilhelm Weber, the celebrated electrician from
Gottingen, and Herr Sheibner, Professor of Mathematics . . . who are
perfectly convinced of the reality of the observed facts altogether
excluding imposture or prestidigitation."2
These descriptions of the experiments in the most extraordinary
phenomena may be found in that most interesting volume translated
and published by Mr. C. C. Massey from the third volume of Zollner's
scientific treatises, called Transcendental Physics. Space in our
journal absolutely precludes the possibility of our mentioning them.
But in order to answer beforehand the well-known and trite objection
that
"
any clever prestidigitator can do the same, we will append
extracts from two letters here, from the same volume. These are
the published confessions of two jugglers ofwide-known fame —Messrs.
Maskelyne of London, and Samuel Bellachini, Court conjurer at
Berlin —who repeat that which the celebrated Robert Houdin, the
French conjurer, had already stated before; namely, that "levi-
tations without contact as produced in the presence of mediums
were feats utterly beyond the power of the professional juggler
" ;
that it was
" the work of no human agency, whatever else that agency
might be."
On the 1st July, 1873, Mr. Maskelyne writes in answer to a
challenge from a spiritualist who offered him £1000 if he could
1 In contradistinction to the Hegelian pantheism Fichte established a system of
his own which he called—"
Concrete Theism."
» Transcendental Physics, p. 18.
THE EVIDENCE OF SCIENCE 57
reproduce certain mediumistic phenomena, as follows :—" In
accepting this challenge, I wish you distinctly to understand that
J do not presume to prove that such manifestations as those stated
in the Dialectical Society are produced by trickery —Ihave never denied
that such manifestations are genuine, but I contend that in them there
is not one iota of evidence which proves that departed spirits have
no better occupation than lifting furniture about1. ... I have never
stated that you cannot produce some phenomena in a genuine
manner." . . . And in a third letter Mr. Maskelyne adds :—" How
genuine phenomena can be produced by trickery I am at a loss to
know."
There we have juggler No. i, confessing that there is such a thing
as genuine phenomena.
In an official document, Samuel Bellachini, the prestidigitator
and Court conjurer to His Majesty the Emperor William I, of
Germany, certifies over his signature and those of two witnesses to
the following :
. ..." I hereby certify that the phenomenal occurrences with
Mr. Slade have been thoroughly examined by me with the minutest
observation and investigation of his surroundings, including the
table, and that I have not in the smallest degree found anything to
be produced by means of prestidigitative manifestations, or by
mechanical apparatus ; and that any explanation of the experi
ments which take place under the circumstances and conditions
then obtaining by any reference to prestidigitation, to be absolutely
impossible.
" It must rest with . . . men of Science ... to search for the
explanation of this phenomenal power, and to prove its reality.
I declare, moreover, the published opinions of laymen as to the
'
How
'
of this subject to be premature, and according to my
view and experience, false and one-sided. This, my declaration,
is signed and executed before a notary and witnesses.
(Signed) Samuel Bellachini?"
Berlin, 6th December, 1877.
And that makes juggler No. 2.
These two documents, added to the testimony of the several
eminent men of science, ought to settle the
" to be, or not to be
"
of
the reality of the phenomena whatever the agency which produces
them. If we cannot yet sufficiently prove what it is, there is some
consolation to know what it is not : it is neither supernatural, divine
nor diabolic. And if it is neither and the evidence in favour of its
objective reality rests on such a scientific testimony, then the sooner
1 Given in the Appendices of Transcendental Physics.
58 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the public and its ante damnie —the press —cease to sneer at and hiss
it, the better for both—in future. Until then, to those who oppose
and point the finger of scorn at the Spiritualists and Theosophists
we will remark that they are quite welcome to call us names in words
and even in print. In the words of a spiritualist —a very dear lady
friend of ours —addressed to a sneering sceptic last year, at Simla :
There is real comfort in the thought that while you only believe us—
we know you to be fools.
THE SCIENTIFIC BASIS OF SPIRITUALISM
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 10 (22), July, 1881, p. 225.]
Having already (p. 139, Vol.
ii)
borne testimony to the admirable
moral qualities and intellectual endowments of our lamented friend,
the late Epes Sargent,
it
would almost suffice for us to announce the
appearance of his crowning psychological work, The Scientific Basis
of
Spiritualism, to give our readers an idea of its merits. From the
beginning to the close of Mr. Sargent's busy literary life, whatever
he did was well done. Though
a
man of strong convictions, he yet
showed throughout an earnest determination to state his case fairly
and without offensive combativeness —
a
talent We honestly envy.
He became
a
Spiritualist only under the pressure of hard facts that
he could not explain away, and since then has been jotting down for
reference instead of merely seeing and forgetting like many others,
the proofs that Spiritualism offers to the man of science that
it
is
worth investigating. The fruits of this methodical industry have, as
we stated in our recent notice of his death, been given to the world
in the form of three of the most useful books upon the subject. Mr.
Sargent had no feeling of antagonism to Theosophy. With
many enlightened Spiritualists he expressed his entire readiness to
join us when he should be convinced of the Theosophical theory of
the mediumistic phenomena by as unanswerable proofs as those
which had made him what he was. And, as from the nature of things,
these proofs were not available outside the closed circle of Asiatic
mystics whom he could not visit, he took up an attitude of friendly
yet neutral good-will, maintaining correspondence to the last with
his Theosophic friends.
In his Scientific Basis, Mr. Sargent makes such an array of both
logic and phenomena as to silence,
if
not convince, the sceptical man
of science who would sneer mediumism down as
a
sort of child's play
for servant -girls and schoolboys. It
is
a book to be thought over as
well as read by every real student of Psychology. We commend
it
most heartily to such, notwithstanding that, from having been more
" THE WORK OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETIES "
59
favoured than the lamented author with opportunities to learn the
real cause of the mediumistic phenomena, we differ with him as to
the necessary agency therein of the spirits of the dead. Messrs.
Colby and Rich, the publishers, will accept our thanks for the copy
of the work we have received.
FOOTNOTES TO "THE WORK OF THE THEO
SOPHICAL SOCIETIES "
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, Supplement, July, 1881, pp. 228-229]
[While on a visit to Ceylon, Col. Olcott visited Colombo. He wrote
in part : "I lectured at the College last evening to an audience of
about five hundred. ... I had in my hand a paper on which the
High Priest, the Rev. Sumangala, had entered all the lies about the
Theosophical Society I was to refute. ... I defied everybody,
Christian or otherwise, that had anything to say either about the
Theosophical Society or ourselves, to come on the platform like men
and say it to my face. . . . But . . . not a soul dared open his
mouth."]
And the Missionary organs, like the Lucknow Witness and others,
denounce us yet for our lack of sympathy for the padris and Christian
converts ! For six years we have to fight step by step, falsehoods,
slanders and vilification invented with the sole object of making the
public lose every confidence in the Theosophical Society. And all
that in the name of the Bible, which commands —"
Thou shalt not
bear false witness," and in that of Christ, of Him, who, represented
as the meekest and the most forgiving of all men, is said to have
died for humanity to save the world from sin ! Verily more crimes
are perpetrated, and false evidence daily given in the name of the
" meek Nazarene
"
by His followers, than there ever was among those
Jews and heathens He called —a "generation of vipers!" Can
truth ever need such weapons ?
[The Ceylon Times reports in detail the incidents mentioned by
Col. Olcott, including his answers to questions during his lecture at
Galle. To the question whether the Society is Buddhistic or not,
Col. Olcott is alleged to have answered that the
"
parent society
may be said to be Buddhist."]
The Reporter must have misunderstood our President. The Parent
Society cannot be said to be
" Buddhist
"
since (a) it is more
unsectarian than any of its branches, and
(b)
its numerous body
being composed of members who, professing the most widely
separated creeds —many of them are liberal Christians, Mahomedans,
Hindus, Parsees, etc. —while others, and the greater number, are
6o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
materialists and spiritualists. The
" Parent Society
"
is not com
posed only of the two Founders (now in India) and the Recording
Secretary, these three alone being openly Buddhists, but of other
original Founders who are scattered about America and Europe,
and of members, half a dozen or so of whom also profess that faith
and
' '
take refuge in Buddha .
' '
But even the fact of the two Founders
being Buddhists does not make them respect any the less for it the
Vedas and especially the Vedanta. After as much study as we could
give to it, we came to the firm conviction that Vedantism and
Buddhism were two synonymous, nearly identical philosophies, in
spirit, if not in practice and interpretation. The Vedanta system
is but transcendental or so to say spiritualized Buddhism, while the
latter is rational or even radical Vedantism. Between the two stands
Sankya philosophy.
[The Harbinger of Light, Melbourne, (Australia), reports
"
the
receipt of a photograph of the Theosophical Society's Buddhist School
at Point de Galle, where a reform in the right direction was initiated
and is now in active operation, viz., the redemption from blind
Christianity to rational Buddhism of the Singhalese
'
rising gener
ation.'
*'
. . .
" Buddhism is pure Theism." To this H. P. B. remarks : ]
Our esteemed friend is mistaken. Buddhism is no
" Theism,"
since Buddhists do not believe in a "personal god," and reject
altogether Revelation. They
" take refuge in Buddha
" and call him
"
Saviour
"
not because they regard him as a god but, on account of
the
"
Enlightened Teacher
"
having saved humanity from the great
darkness of superstition, from blind faith in the teachings of fallible
men and belief in their authority. Siddartha Buddha is a saviour
indeed, for taking us by the hand he was the first to show us the way
to true salvation —deliverance from the miseries of human life ;
future everlasting misery and eternal bliss depending upon our own
personal merits. We are our own Saviours.
EDITOR'S NOTE TO
"
THE HINDU SABHA "
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, Supplement, July, 1881, No. 10 (22).]
[The President of the Hindu Sabha, A. Sankariah, published in his
Journal an appeal to its members to give special attention to the
objects of the Association. He says in part :
"
Our definition of
Hindu is one who respects the Rishis of India and loves the nation
devoted to them . . . every educated Hindu should acquire as much
proficiency as is possible for him in the Vyasiyam. . . . Yet still
after publication of eight numbers of the Journal, we have to con
front the anomaly of Hindus wishing to know what is the Vyasiyam
and who is a Hindu."]
STONE-SHOWERS 61
Our esteemed Brother seems to wonder that
"
after the publication
of eight numbers of the journal
" he, the Editor, has
"
to confront the
anomaly of Hindus wishing to know what is the Vyasiyam and who
is a Hindu." His surprise may cool, perhaps, when we have told
him, that after six years of the Theosophical Society's existence, and
after the publication of twenty-one numbers of The Theosophist
journal, full of the objects and aims of its Society, we encounter
nearly daily the
"
anomaly
"
of its Members and Fellows wishing to
know
" what is Theosophy
" and
"
who or what is a Theosophist I
"
Some of them we find, laboured under the extraordinary impression
that no sooner were they initiated than they would find themselves
able to cross the Himalayas astride on a cloud, converse with the
" unknowable
"
face to face, or—secure at once an appointment for
High Court Judgeship ! . . .
STONE-SHOWERS
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. n (23), August, 1881, pp. 231-233.]
[The writer of the letter to which H. P. B. appends an explanatory
note, A. J. Riko, of The Hague, Holland, presents interesting details,
including an official report from the Dutch East Indies, signed by
Major W. Michiels, concerning the phenomenon of falling stones,
singly or in showers. Riko cites several instances in all of which the
stones appear to have been guided by unseen hands, as no one was
ever hurt, though the stones were sometimes the size of an egg, and
continued falling near certain individuals for periods of two weeks.
Riko concludes his letter by inquiring of H. P. B. as to the nature of
the invisible beings who cause such showers of stones to come down.
Some of the geographical names in Riko's letter are obviously mis
spelt, and H. P. B., having corrected them, adds in a footnote : ]
Unless the blame for the incorrect rendering of the names of these
localities is to be laid at the door of the printers we have to beg
Mr. Riko's pardon for the liberty we take in correcting them. The
cases related by him are most incredible for the general reader,
though, having witnessed far more extraordinary phenomena
personally, we believe in them thoroughly. But The Theosophist is
sent throughout the world. Some persons might read this account
in Java, or, finding themselves there, desire to ascertain how far the
statements are true. It is absolutely necessary that in every case
the names of the localities, where the phenomena took place, and
their geographical position, should be rendered as carefully as
possible. The Theosophists and Spiritualists have too many enemies
to allow the latter triumphs which might easily be avoided by
62 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
exercising some little care. And neither of us—Spiritists or
Theosophists—can be too careful.
[The letter is followed by H. P. B.'s comment : ]
Meanwhile, M. Riko will perhaps permit us a word. The last
sentence of his letter proves clearly that even he, a spiritist, is unable
to trace such a uniformly senseless, idiotic phenomenon —one that
periodically occurs in every part of the world and without the slightest
cause for it, as without the least moral effect upon those present —
to the agency of disembodied human spirits. We well know
that, while most of the spiritists will attribute it to the Esprits
malins (malicious disembodied spirits) the Roman Catholic world
and most of the pious Protestants —at least those who may have
convinced themselves of the facts—will lay it at the door of the
devil. Now for argument's sake, and allowing the idea of such
creatures as the
"
malicious human souls
"
of the spiritist and the
" demons
"
of the Christian theology to exist elsewhere than in
imagination, how can both these classes of believers account for the
contradictions involved ? Here are beings which or who —whether
devils, or malicious ex-human imps —are evidently wicked. Their
object—if they have any at all—must be to derive cruel pleasure
from tormenting mortals ? They cannot be less bent upon mischief
or more careful of possible results than ordinary mischievous school
boys. Yet we see the stones, or whatever the missiles may be,
carefully avoiding contact with those present. They fall all around
without
" even grazing
"
the little Javanese girl —evidently the
medium in the case observed by General Michiels. They fall thick
among the ranks of the soldiers at
"
Fort Victoria
"
; and pass
incessantly for several days before the very noses of the police agents
at Paris and The Hague, without ever touching, let alone hurting,
anyone ! What does this mean ? Malicious human spirits, to say
nothing of devils, would certainly have no such delicate care for those
they were bent upon tormenting. What are they then, these
invisible persecutors ? Ordinary human
"
spirits
" ? In such a case
human intelligence would be but a name ; a word devoid of meaning
as soon as it gets separated from its physical organs. It would
become a blind force, a remnant of intellectual energy that was, and
we would have to credit every liberated soul with insanity I
Having disposed of the theory of
"
spirits,"
"
imps
"
and
" devils,"
on the score of the idiocy and total absence of malevolence in the
proceedings, once that the genuineness of the phenomenon is proved,
to what else can it be attributed in its causation or origin, but to a
blind though living force ; one subjected to an intransgressible law
of attraction and repulsion—in its course and effects
—a law which
exact science has yet to discover; for it is one of innumerable
correlations due to magnetic conditions which are supplied only when
STONE-SHOWERS 63
both animal and terrestrial magnetism are present ; meanwhile the
former has to fight its way step by step for recognition, for science
mil not recognize it in its psychological effects, —do what its advocates
may. The Spiritualists regard the phenomena of the stone-showers
as irregular ? We, Theosophists, answer that although their occurr
ence at a given place may appear to be very irregular, yet from a
comparison of those in all parts of the world it might be found, if
carefully recorded, that hitherto they have been uniform or nearly
so. Perhaps they may be aptly compared with the terrestrial mag
netic perturbations called by Science
" fitful," and distinctly
separated by her, at one time, from that other class she named
"
periodical
"
; the
"
fitful
"
now being found to recur at as regular
periods as the former. The cause of these variations of the magnetic
needle is as entirely unknown to physical science as are the pheno
mena of stone-showers to those who study psychological Science ; yet
both are closely connected. If we are asked what we mean by the
comparison —and indignant may be the question on the part of
both Science and Spiritualism —we will humbly answer that such
is the teaching of Occult Science. Both classes of our opponents
have yet much to learn, and the Spiritualists —to first unlearn much
in addition. Did our friends the believers in
"
spirits
"
ever go to
the trouble of first studying
"
mediumship
" and only then turning
their attention to the phenomena occurring through the sensitives ?
We, at least, never heard that such is the case, not even during the
most scientific investigations of mediumistic powers that ever took
place —Professor Hare's and Mr. Crookes' experiments. And yet,
had they done so, they might have found how closely related to and
dependent on the variations of terrestrial magnetism are those of
the mediumistic or animal magnetic state. Whenever a true medium
fails to get phenomena it is immediately attributed by the Spiritual
ists, and oftener by the "Spirits" themselves to "unfavourable
conditions." The latter are lumped together in a single phrase ;
but never did we hear the real scientific and chief cause for it given :
the unfavourable variations of the terrestrial magnetism. The lack
of harmony in the
"
circle
"
of investigators ; various and conflicting
magnetisms of the
"
sitters
" are all of secondary importance. The
power of a real strongly charged medium1 will always prevail against
1 We hold that a
"
physical medium," so called, is but an organism more sensitive
than most others to the terrestrial electro-magnetic induction. That the powers of
a medium for the production of phenomena fluctuate from one hour to another is a
fact proven by Mr. Crookes' experiments and, believing though we do in the existence
of innumerable other so-called Spiritual Forces besides and quite independent of
human spirits, we yet firmly maintain that physical mediums have very little, if
anything, to do with the latter. Their powers are purely physical and conditional ;
i.e., these powers depend almost entirely on the degree of receptivity, and chance
polarization of the body of the medium by the electro-magnetic and atmospheric
currents. Purely psychological manifestations are quite a different thing.
64 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the animal magnetism which may be adverse to it ; but it cannot
produce effects unless it receive a fresh supply of molecular force,
an impress from the invisible body of those we call blind
" Elementals
" or Forces of Nature, and which the Spiritualists in
every case regard as the
"
spirits of the dead." Showers of stones
have been known to take place where there was not a living soul—
consequently no medium. The medium charged by the atmospheric
legion of
"
correlations
"
(we prefer calling them by the new scientific
term) will attract stones within the periphery of his force, but will
at the same time repel them, the polaric condition of his body
preventing the missiles from touching it. And its own molecular
condition will temporarily induct with its properties all the other
human and even non -sensitive bodies around it. Sometimes there
may be an exception to the rule produced by some chance condition.
This explanatory postscript may be closed with the remark to
M. Riko that we do not regard the Elementals of the Kabalists as
properly
"
beings." They are the active Forces and correlations
of Fire, Water, Earth and Air, and their shape is like the hues of the
chameleon which has no permanent colour of its own. Through the
interplanetary and interstellar spaces, the vision of almost every
clairvoyant can reach. But it is only the trained eye of the proficient
in Eastern Occultism, that can fix the flitting shadows and give them
a shape and a name.
THE FIVE-POINTED STAR
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. n, (23), August, 1881, pp. 240-241.]
[The following comment was written by H. P. Blavatsky on a
letter by Mr. S. T. Venkatapaty, who claimed to have successfully
used the five-pointed star, drawn on paper with the name of a Hindu
god written in the spaces, for healing or mitigating the effect of
scorpion bites.]
Of late numerous letters have been received in The Theosophist
office concerning the efficacy of the mysterious Pentagram. Our
Eastern readers are perhaps unaware of the great importance
given by the Western Kabalists to that sign, and, therefore, it may
be found expedient to say a few words about it just now, when it is
coming so prominently before the notice of our readers. Like the
six-pointed star which is the figure of the macrocosm, the five-
pointed star has its own deep symbolic significance, for it represents
the microcosm. The former—the "double triangle" composed of
two triangles respectively white and black —crossed and interlaced
(our Society's symbol)—known as "Solomon's Seal" in Europe —
THE FIVE-POINTED STAR 65
and as the
"
Sign of Vishnu
" in India —is made to represent the
universal spirit and matter, one white point which symbolizes the
former ascending heavenward, and the two points1 of its black
triangle inclining earthward.* The Pentagram also represents
spirit and matter but only as manifested upon earth. Emblem of
the microcosm (or the
" little universe ") faithfully mirroring itself in
the macrocosm (or the great cosmos), it is the sign of the supremacy
of human intellect or spirit over brutal matter.
Most of the mysteries of Kabalistic or ceremonial magic, the
gnostical symbols and all the Kabalistic keys of prophecy are
summed up in that flamboyant Pentagram, considered by the
practitioners of the Chaldeo- Jewish Kabala as the most potent
magical instrument. In magical evolution during which the slightest
hesitation, mistake or omission, becomes fatal to the operator, the
star is always on the altar bearing the incense and other offerings,
and under the tripod of invocation. According to the position of
its points, it
' '
calls forth good or bad spirits, and expels, retains or
captures them
"—the Kabalists inform us.
" Occult qualities are
due to the agency of elemental spirits," says the New American
Cyclopedia in article
'
Magic,' thus making use of the adjective
"
Elemental
" for certain spirits—a word which, by the bye, the
spiritualists accused the Theosophists of having coined, whereas the
N. A. Cyclopedia was published twenty years before the birth of
the Theosophical Society.
" This mysterious figure (the five-pointed
star) must be consecrated by the four elements, breathed upon,
sprinkled with water, and dried in the smoke of precious perfumes,
and then the names of great spirits, as Gabriel, Raphael, Oriphiel,
and the letters of the sacred tetragram and other Kabalistic words,
are whispered to it, and are inscribed upon it
"—adds the Cyclopedia,
copying its information from the books of old Mediaeval Kabalists,
and the more modern work of Eliphas Levi —Dogmes el Rituel de la
Haute Magie. A modern London Kabalist, styling himself an
"Adept,"—a correspondent in a London Spiritual paper, derides
Eastern Theosophy and would—if he could—make it subservient
to the Jewish Kabala with its Chaldeo-Phoenikean Angelology
and Demonology. That new Cagliostro would probably explain
the power and efficacy of the "five-pointed star" but the
interference of the good "genii," evoked by him; those jinns
which Solomon-like he has apparently bottled up by sealing
1
[Should read "the lower point."—See H. P. B.'s Correction in Footnote on
p. 154.— Ed.]
1 The double triangle on the right corner of The Theosophist was by a mistake of
the engraver reversed, i.e., placed upside down. So is the Egyptian Tau with the
snake coiled round it, in the opposite corner of the title-page cover. The latter
double sign when drawn correctly represents the anagram of the Society—a T. S.—
and the head of the snake ought to turn the opposite way.
E
66 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the mouth of the vessel with King
"
Solomon's Seal
"
servilely
copied by that mythical potentate from the Indian Vaishnava
sign, together with other things brought out by him from
the no-less mythical Ophir if his vessels ever went there. But the
explanation given by the Theosophists for the occasional success
obtained in relieving pain (such as scorpion-bites) by the application
of the Pentagram —a success, by the bye, which with the knowledge
of the cause producing it might with some persons become perma
nent and sure —is a little less supernatural, and rejects every theory
of a
"
Spirit
"
agency accomplishing it whether these spirits be
claimed human or elemental. True, the five-pointed shape of the star
has something to do with it, as will now be explained, but it depends
on, and is fully subservient to, the chief agent in the operation, the
alpha and the omega of the
" magical
" force —human will. All the
paraphernalia of ceremonial magic —perfumes, vestments, inscribed
hieroglyphics and mummeries, are good, but for the beginner, the
neophyte, whose powers have to be developed, his mental attitude
during the operations denned, and his will educated by concen
trating it on such symbols. The Kabalistic axiom that the magician
can become the master of the Elemental Spirits only by surpassing
them in courage and audacity in their own elements, has an alle
gorical meaning. It was but to test the moral strength and daring
of the candidate that the terrible trials of initiation into ancient
mysteries were invented by the hierophants ; and hence the neophyte
who had proved fearless in water, fire, air and in the terrors of a
Cimmerian darkness, was recognized as having become the master
of the Undines, the Salamanders, Sylphs and Gnomes. He had
" forced them into obedience," and
"
could evoke the spirits
" for
having studied and acquainted himself with the ultimate essence
of the occult or hidden nature and the respective properties of the
Elements, he could produce at will the most wonderful manifesta
tions or
"
occult
"
phenomena by the combination of such properties,
combinations hitherto unknown to the profane, as progressive and
exoteric science, which proceeds slowly and cautiously, can marshal
its discoveries but one by one and in their successive order, for
hitherto it has scorned to learn from those who had grasped all the
mysteries of nature for long ages before. Many are the occult secrets
ferreted out by her and wrung from the old magic, and yet it will
not give it credit even for that which has been proved to have been
known by the ancient esoteric scientists or
"
Adepts." But our
subject must not be digressed from, and we now turn to the mys
terious influence of the Pentagram.
" What is in a sign ?
"
will our readers ask.
" No more than in
a name
" we shall reply—nothing except that as said above it
helps to concentrate the attention, hence to nail the will of the
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 67
operator to a certain spot. It is the magnetic or mesmeric fluid
flowing out of the fingers' ends of the hand tracing the figure which
cures or at least stops the acute pain in benumbing the nerves and
not the figure per se. And yet there are some proficients who are
able to demonstrate that the simple tracing of the five-pointed star,
whose points represent the five cordial [sic] limbs of those channels of
man —the head, the two arms and the two legs—from whence the
mesmeric currents issue the strongest (a tracing produced with far
more efficacy with the finger ends than with ink, chalk or pencil),
helped by a strong desire to alleviate pain, will very often force out
unconsciously the healing fluid from all these extremities, with far
more force than it otherwise would. Faith in the figure is trans
formed into intense will, and the latter into energy ; and energy
from whatsoever feeling or cause it may proceed, is sure to rebound
somewhere and strike the place with more or less force ; and
naturally enough that place will be the locality upon which the
attention of the operator is at that moment concentrated ; and
hence —the cure attributed by the self-ignorant mesmeriser to the
pentagram. Truly, remarks Schelling, that "although magic has
ceased to be an object of serious attention, it has had a history
which links it on the one hand with the highest themes of symbolism,
theosophy and early science, as Well as on the other with the ridicu
lous or tragical delusions of the many forms of demonomania. . . .
In Greek theurgy the ruins of a superior intelligence and even of a
perfect system are to be found, which would reach far beyond the
horizon which the most ancient written records present to us . . . and
portions of the same system may be discovered in the Jewish
Kabala. ..." That
"
perfect system
" is now in the hands of a few
proficients in the East . The legitimacy of
' '
Magic
' '
may be disputed
by the bigots, its reality as an art, and especially as a science, can
scarcely be doubted. Nor is it at all doubted by the whole Roman
Catholic Clergy, though their fear of its becoming a terrific witness
against the legitimacy of their own ascendancy forces them to
support the argument that its marvels are due to malignant spirits
or
" fallen angels." In Europe it has still
" a few learned and
respectable professors and adepts," admits the same Cyclopaedia.
And, throughout the
"
Pagan
" world we may add its reality is
almost universally admitted and its proficients are numerous,
though they try to avoid the attention of the sceptical world.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 11, (23), August, 1881, p. 246-247.]
The nefarious influence of the year 1881 is still asserting itself.
68 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
The assassination of the President of the United States, General
Garfield, follows the murder of the Emperor of Russia. The death
of Rubinstein, the great pianist, but preceded that of Henry Vieux-
temps, the Belgian, the greatest violoncellist and composer of our
century. And now comes that of Littr£, one of the most brilliant
scientific lights of France, and it is to him that we will now devote
a few lines. But who next ?
Maxmilien Paul Emile Littre, the Academician, and Senator, the
great French Lexicographer, born in the first year of our century, has
just died in his eighty-first year. The eminent philologist (he knew
Sanskrit, Hebrew, Greek and Latin to perfection) was a professed
atheist all his life, and a warm friend of August Comte, as well as
a prominent promoter of his doctrines of which he gives an excellent
synopsis in his great work, De la Philosophic Positive, and upon
which he expounded, while defending them in a series of pamphlets.
For years, owing to the intrigues of the Archbishop Dupanloup, the
"
fiery Bishop of Orleans," and notwithstanding the eminent scien
tific achievements of the infidel savant the doors of the Academy of
Sciences were shut to him. The forty
"
Immortals
"
fearing to
admit such a rank atheist lest the aristocratic Faubourg St. Germain,
and the Fish Market, in the face of their respective representatives
of the fair sex—those ladies from the two opposite ends of the social
ladder, having now remained the chief if not the only pillars of the
Roman Catholic clergy in Republican France—should stone them.
In 1871, however, M. Dupanloup notwithstanding, the
" Immortals
"
feeling themselves suffused with blushes for their cowardice, unani
mously elected M. Littre' to the Academical chair. We may add
en passant, that they were rewarded for it by a fearful scandal
created by the Archbishop, who cursed and anathematized his
colleagues there and then and —withdrew, breaking for ever with
the Academy. To the last moment of his conscious life, the late
Positivist remained true to his principles of negation. And now—
he died ... as the clerical papers triumphantly assert —a Christian !
According to the unanimous testimony of the Paris press, as soon
as the octogenarian atheist had fallen in arliculo mortis, and the
agony had begun, the ever vigilant Jesuit Fathers, who had secured
to their cause his wife and daughter, proclaimed the news that the
atheist had just before that repented ; and, without losing time
administered to him the rites of baptism and the viaticum. According
to the Gaulois the friends and supporters of the dead philosopher
were enraged beyond description at such proceedings, and the burial
ceremony culminated in a public scandal. The clericals had
endeavoured to make the entourage of the funeral as solemn and as
theatrical as it was possible for them. Since early morning a priest
was seen prostrated before the coffin which was surrounded by a
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 69
whole army of the clergy who tried to crowd off from the church
every infidel they could. They had no trouble to succeed, as none of
Littr6's associates in atheism would enter it during the service,
and M. Reiian, the free-thinking author of the Life of Jesus, Bar-
theiemy St.-Hilaire and a host of others standing outside. In
the cemetery, when M. Virubof, the intimate friend and literary
partner of the defunct, desired to make a speech by his tomb,
the clericals interrupted him with cries —" Respect to the
bereaved family." In answer, the Positivists, who numbered
about two-thirds of the crowd—3,000 men strong—shouted
"
Vive
la libre pensee ! Vive la liberty !
"
(Long life Free Thought !
Hurrah, for Liberty
!),
and regardless of the protest, M. Virubof pro
nounced his speech excusing the defunct before the Positivists on
the grounds given above. The Ripublique Frangaise vociferates
against the clergy and tells its readers that
it
is
they
"
of the long
coats
" who shouted
" Down with the Republicans
!
"
receiving in
reply
:
" Down with the Jesuits
!
The church has committed a
ravishment upon
a
dying man. ... It
is
guilty of kidnapping
!
"
etc. The presence of the President of the Republic of France
served but to throw oil upon the fire. As
a
matter of course, the clergy
who have before now tried their hand at claiming as their prize
Thomas Paine and even Voltaire, will now sing victory more than
ever. Thus the memory of an honest and
a
great man, who remained
true to his convictions for over three score and ten years —will
descend to posterity as that of
a
Moral Coward
!
Under the heading of
"
Forgiveness and Chastisement
"
the New
Dispensation, comparing its members to Jesus when whipping out
the money-changers from the temple, takes us in its confidence, and
proceeds to enumerate its painful but unavoidable duties to the
world in general, and the infidels and sceptics especially.
"
To
remove,"
it
says, "the plague
" of infidelity and scepticism with
which
it
feels
" bound to remonstrate, Jesus-like
"
(!)
—" however
painful the task,
is
a bounden duty, which no believer can shirk.
The sharp knife of the surgeon must cut open the festering sore.
The New Dispensation must chastise and heal all its enemies,
of
whatever class, and by administering strong medicines make them
clean. This
is
not personal resentment, but healing and correction
(!)
He who does not ply his healing art, under God,
is
one of the worst
foes of society and an opponent
of
the New Dispensation. Burn up
every paper that breathes resentment as so much anti-Dispensation
trash. Destroy also the entire literature
of
spurious toleration which
flirts with infidelity and corruption, for
it
too
is
an enemy
of
God and
. .
.
of
the present Dispensation "11
70 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
The italics are ours —of course. But, oh, Cerulean Powers ! . . .
Has Calcutta established then —not even an internuncial see, for
that would be only modest —but another R.C. Pontificality, with
its PotUifex Maximus, the infallible Pope, with its Index Expurga-
torius, its In Ccena Domini, its Ipse dixit and the whole lugubrious
cortege of Papal appurtenances, for their women Hapless Babus,
and still more unfortunate Brahmos, who gave up Sutti, but to
accept auto-da-fd for themselves at some future day ? It really
would be worth learning though, how the Dispensationists come to
such an infallibility and power.
" Burn up every paper that
breathes . . . anti-Dispensation trash
"
;
"
Destroy the entire
literature . . . that flirts with infidelity
" . . .
"
which is an
enemy of the present Dispensation
" ! Forsooth, we have to be
prudent, it seems, with these modern
"
Princes of Peace and
Apostles of Forgiveness," of
"
God's Dispensation
" ! We know,
for we are told so by themselves, that they have "no vindictive-
ness
"
; and being full of
"
forgiveness and love," and rice and water,
if they chastise at all, it is not out of
" malice
" but with the sole
object of destroying
"
God's enemies." This is the language of the
late Holy Inquisition —happily defunct. Our Dispensationists being
prevented by law to burn their heretics, they proceed —always in a
spirit of charity, of course —to chastise the
" enemies of God
"
through little, vile and slanderous attacks upon the enemies'
private characters and even those of their daughters, attacks
epitomized in
"
filthy and obscene correspondences," in organs
" under the distinguished patronage of the Prophet of the New
Dispensation
"—if we have to believe the Brahmo Public Opinion
(July 7th). The magistrates who may or may not be anti-Dispensa-
tionists recognize the libel and chastise in their turn the weapon,
the hand remaining prudently invisible. Thus acted, the Consiglio
dei Died—the terrible " Council of Ten
" of the Venetian Doges of
old, whose members remained ever invisible behind their masks
in the presence of the accused to be
" chastised," brought before
them in the secret hall of the Dogal palace, and who unveiled their
faces, but when praying and glorifying God—publicly. . . .
The cycle is running down and brings back to us in its vortex the
things that were —by faithfully reproducing them. So we had the
Mosaic Dispensation, the tables of stone
"
written with the finger
of God," a charter signed and sealed by Jehovah himself. Then
came the Christian Dispensation, written by authors unknown, and
chartered by Constantine. But our century presents us with two
New Dispensations at once : the
"
Spiritual
"—chartered by the
"
Angels ", and the
" Babu-Keshubians," also claiming a charter
as the rest. Only our Dispensation, No. 4, is an evident improvement,
upon its predecessors, as its
"
Apostles
"
inform us ; and a kind of
THE BRITISH THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 71
i?e-Revised Bible, with Renan's Jesus in it, linked with Chaitanya
and propped by Mahomet and Sokrates. It is written on something
as durable as the
"
tables of stones
"—and as transcendental—
namely—on the overheated tables of the grey matter of the
"
Minister's
" cerebellum. The sensory ganglia being abnormally
excited at the expense of the hemispheres of the brain, hence —the
delusion of a Missio in partes infidelium; that Mission to the
unbelievers, the clear perception of which makes our Calcutta
Prophet assume an authority and issue Bulls as if he had a whole
host of celestial Sipahis with flaming swords behind his back to
enforce them. Indeed, his newly established rite, that of baptism
in a Calcutta
"
Jordan-tank
"
was a brilliant idea. Nothing can
prove more beneficent to the members of the
"
New Church
" than
daily and full immersions in ice-cold water. The Arlington Co.
ought to enter into immediate negotiations with the
"
Apostles
"
for furnishing them with pneumatic ice machines.
THE BRITISH THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 11 (23), Supplement, August,
1881, p. 2.]
We have received no official report as yet from those quarters
though we hope to publish the Secretary's Report next month. But
we gather from a semi-official correspondence that the number of
the Fellows is increasing, though our London Brothers are very
careful in admitting new members into their Society, and it is on
the whole difficult to be admitted into that body. Its esteemed
President, Dr. G. Wyld, informs us of an extraordinary opinion
held by one of its members —one who lived in India, and is personally
acquainted, as it seems, with a Society of Initiates in Tibet —that
" those who live there in the snow
(?)
are not adepts but under training,
and that a true adept can defy all magnetisms and live in society
if
he chooses." Most undoubtedly he can. So can
a
man, gradually
having accustomed himself to an ever-increasing heat, pass days —
,
if
not altogether live—in
a
furnace without dying, as recent scientific
experiments have proved. So can also a person pass years in the
utter darkness of
a
subterranean cavern and thereby so weaken his
sight as to lose
it
entirely when suddenly emerging into light again.
The question
is
not
" could the Eastern initiates
"
so live or not,
but will they, and why should they consent to do so, having no
better reason for
it
than the satisfaction of the curiosity of—to
them—an alien race, five-sixths of which would regard them as
clever impostors and charlatans, and the other sixth —the best
72 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
disposed to believe in their psychological powers, regard them as
wonderful physical mediums controlled by
"
spirits." Mr. Sinnett's
The Occult World is a good feeler in that direction.
MADAME BLAVATSKY ON
"
THE HIMALAYAN
BROTHERS "
[The Spiritualist (London), August 12, 1881.]
Sir,
" On the authority of an adept
"
(?)
"they (the Theosophists and
Madame Blavatsky) are all mediums under the influence
of
the lower
spirits." Such
is
the sentence used by you in an editorial review of
Mr. Sinnett's Occult World (Spiritualist, June 17th). Doubtful as
its pertinency might appear,
I
personally found nothing very
objectionable in it, the more so, as elsewhere you do me the honour
to express your conviction that (whether controlled by good or bad
spirits)
I
am yet
a
" strong physical medium
"—that term precluding
at least the suspicion of my being a regular impostor. This letter
then
is
not directed against you, but rather against the pretensions
of
a
would-be
"
adept." Another point should also be attended to
before
I
proceed, in order that the situation may be as clearly
defined as possible.
Finding myself for the period of nearly seven years one of the
best abused individuals under the sun,
I
rather got accustomed to
that sort of thing. Hence
I
would hardly take up the pen now to
defend my own character. If people, besides forgetting that
I
am
a
woman, and an old woman, are dull enough to fail to perceive
that had
I
declared myself anything in creation, save
a
Theosophist
and one of the founders of our Society,
I
would have been in every
respect —materially as well as socially —better off in the world's
consideration
;
and that therefore since, notwithstanding all the
persecution and opposition encountered,
I
persist in remaining and
declaring myself one,
I
cannot well be that charlatan and pretender
some people would see in me—
I
really cannot help it. Fools are
unable, and the wise unwilling to see the absurdity of such an accusa
tion, for, as Shakespeare puts
it
:
" Folly in fools bears not so strong
a
note
As foolery in the wise when wit doth dote."
It
is
not then to defend myself that
I
claim space in your columns,
but to answer one whose ex-cathedra utterances have revolted the
sense of justice of more than one of our Theosophists in India, and
to defend them—who have
a
claim on all the reverential feeling
that my nature
is
capable of.
A
new correspondent, one of those dangerous, quasi anonymous
MADAME BLAVATSKY ON
"
HIMALAYAN BROTHERS "
73
individuals who abuse their literary privilege of hiding their true
personality, and thus shirk responsibility behind an initial or two,
has lately won a prominent place in the columns of your journal.
He calls himself an "adept
" ; that is easy enough, but does, or
rather can, he prove it ? To begin with in the light of the
Spiritualists, as much as in that of sceptics in general, an "adept,"
whether he hails from Thibet, India, or London, is all one. The
latter will persist in calling him an impostor ; and the former, were
he even to prove his powers, in seeing in him either a medium or a
juggler. Now your
"
J. K.," when he states in the Spiritualist of
June 24th, that
" the phenomena attendant upon real adeptship
are on an entirely different plane from Spiritualism
" risks, nay is
sure, to have every one of the above expletives flung in his face
by both the above-mentioned classes.
Could he but prove what he claims, namely, the powers conferring
upon a person the title of an initiate, such epithets might well be
scorned by him. Aye, but I ask again, is he ready to make good his
claim ? The language used by him, to begin with, is not that which
a true adept would ever use. It is dogmatic and authoritative
throughout, and too full of insulting aspersions against those who
are not yet proved to be worse or lower than himself ; and fails
entirely to carry conviction to the minds of the profane as of those
who do know something of adepts and initiates —that it is one of
such proficients who now addresses them.
Styling himself an adept whose
"
Hierophant is a western gentle
man," but a few lines further on he confesses his utter ignorance of
the existence of a body which cannot possibly be ignored by any
true adept ! I say
"
cannot
" for there is no accepted neophyte
on the whole globe but at least knows of the Himalayan Fraternity.
The sanction to receive the last and supreme initiation, the real
"
word at low breath," can come but through those Fraternities in
Egypt, India and Thibet, to one of which belongs
"
Koot Hoomi
Lai Singh."
True there is
"
adept
" and adept, and they differ, as there are
adepts in more than one art and science. I, for one, know in
America of a shoemaker, who advertised himself as "an adept in
the high art of manufacturing Parisian cothurns." J. K. speaks
of Brothers
" on the soul plane," of
" divine Kabbalah culminating
in God," of
" slave magic," and so on, a phraseology which proves
to me most conclusively that he is but one of those dabblers in
Western occultisms which were so well represented some years ago
by French-born
"
Egyptians
" and
"
Algerians," who told people
their fortunes by the Tarot, and placed their visitors within enchanted
circles with a Tetragrammaton inscribed in the centre. I do not
say J. K. is one of the latter, I beg him to understand. Though
74 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
quite unknown to me and hiding behind his two initials, I will not
follow his rude example and insult him for all that. But I say and
repeat that his language sadly betrays him. If a Kabbalist at all,
then himself and his
"
Hierophant
" are but the humble self-taught
pupils of the mediaeval, and so-called
" Christian
" Kabbalists ;
of adepts, who, like Agrippa, Khunrath, Paracelsus, Vaughan,
Robert Fludd, and several others, revealed their knowledge to the
world but to better conceal
it,
and who never gave the key to
it
in
their writings. He bombastically asserts his own knowledge and
power, and proceeds to pass judgment on people of whom he knows
and can know nothing. Of the " Brothers
"
he says
:
"
if
they are
true adepts, they have not shown much worldly wisdom, and the
organization which
is
to inculcate their doctrine
is
a
complete failure,
for even the very first psychical and physical principles of true
Theosophy and occult science are quite unknown to and unpractised
by the members of that organization—the Theosophical Society."
How does he know
?
Did the Theosophists take him into their
confidence
?
And
if
he knows something of the British Theosophical
Society, what can he know of those in India
?
If he belongs to any
of them, then does he play false to the whole body and
is
a
traitor
?
And
if
he does not, what has he to say of its practitioners, since the
Society in general, and especially its esoteric sections that count
but a very few
"
chosen ones
"—are secret bodies
?
The more attentively
I
read his article the more
I
am inclined to
laugh at the dogmatic tone prevailing in it. Were
I
a
Spiritualist,
I
would be inclined to suspect in
it
a
good
"
goak
" of John King,
whose initials are represented in the signature of
J.
K. Let him
first learn, that mirinc Brother of the
" Western Hermetic Circle in
the Soul-plane," a few facts about the adepts in general, before he
renders himself any more ridiculous.
(1) No true adept will on any consideration whatever reveal
himself as one to the profane. Nor would he ever speak in such
terms of people who are certainly no more silly, and, in many an
instance, far wiser than himself. But Were even the Theosophists
the poor misled creatures he would represent them to be,
a
true
adept would rather help than deride them.
(2) There never was
a
true Initiate but knew of the secret
Fraternities in the East. It
is
not Eliphas Levi who would ever
deny their existence, since we have his authentic signature to the
contrary. Even P. B. Randolph, that wondrous, though erratic,
genius of America, that half-initiated seer, who got his knowledge
in the East, had good reasons to know of their existence, as his
writings can prove.
(3) One who ever perorates upon his occult knowledge and speaks
MADAME BLAVATSKY ON " HIMALAYAN BROTHERS "
75
of practising his powers in the name of some particular prophet,
deity, or avatar, is but a sectarian mystic at best. He cannot be
an adept in the Eastern sense, a Mahatma, for his judgment will
always be biassed and prejudiced by the colouring of his own
special and dogmatic religion.
(4) The great science, called by the vulgar
"
magic," and by its
Eastern proficients, Gupta-Vidya, embracing as it does each and
every science, since it is the acme of knowledge, and constitutes the
perfection of philosophy, is universal ; hence, as very truly remarked,
cannot be confined to one particular nation or geographical locality.
But, as Truth is one, the method for the attainment of its highest
proficiency must necessarily be also one. It cannot be subdivided,
for, once reduced to parts, each of them, left to itself, will like rays
of light, diverge from, instead of converging to, its centre, the
ultimate goal of knowledge ; and these parts can re-become the
whole only by collecting them together again, or each fraction will
remain but a fraction. This truism, which may be termed elementary
mathematics for little boys, has to be re-called in order to refresh
the memory of such
"
adepts
"
as are too apt to forget that
" Christian Kabbalism
" is but a fraction of Universal occult science.
And if they believe that they have nothing more to learn, then the
less they turn to
"
Eastern Adepts
" for information, the better and
less trouble for both. There is but one royal road to
"
Divine
Magic
"
; neglect and abandon it to devote yourself specially to
one of the paths diverging from it, and like a lonely wanderer you
will find yourself lost in an inextricable labyrinth. Magic, I suppose,
existed millenniums before the Christian era ; and, if so, are we to
think then, with our too learned friends, the modern
" Western
Kabbalists," that it was all Black Magic, practised by the "old
firm of Devil & Co." ? But, together with every other person who
knows something of what he or she talks about, I say that it is
nothing of the kind ; that J. K. seems to be superbly ignorant
even of the enormous difference which exists between a Kabbalist
and an Occultist. Is he aware, or not, that the Kabbalist stands in
relation to the Occultist as a little detached hill at the foot of the
Himalayas to Mount Everest ? What is known as the Jewish
Kabala of Simon Ben Jochai is already the disfigured version of its
primitive source, the great Chaldaean Book of Numbers. That as
the former, with its adaptation to the Jewish Dispensation, its
mixed international Angelology and Demonology, its Oriphiels and
Raphaels, and Greek Tetragrams, is a pale copy of the Chaldaean,
so the Kabala of the Christian Alchemists and Rosicrucians is
nought in its turn but a tortured edition of the Jewish. By cen
tralizing the Occult Power and his course of actions, in some one
national God or Avatar, whether in Jehovah or Christ, Brahma or
76 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Mahomet, the Kabbalist diverges the more from the one central
Truth. It is but the Occultist, the Eastern Adept, who stands a
Free Man, omnipotent through his own Divine Spirit as much as
man can be on earth. He has rid himself of all human conceptions
and religious side-issues. He is at one and the same time a Chaldaean
Sage, a Persian Mage, a Greek Theurgist, an Egyptian Hermetist, a
Buddhist Rahat, and an Indian Yogi. He has collected into one
bundle all the separate fractions of Truth widely scattered over the
nations, and holds in his hands the one Truth, a torch of light which
no adverse wind can bend, blow out or even cause to waver. Not
he the Prometheus who robs but a portion of the Sacred Fire, and
therefore finds himself chained to Mount Caucasus for his intestines
to be devoured by vultures, for he has secured God within himself,
and depends no more on the whim or caprice of either good or evil
deities. True,
"
Koot Hoomi
"
mentions Buddha. But it is not
because the Brothers hold him in the light of God or even of
"
a
God," but simply because he is the patron of the Thibetan Occultists,
the greatest of the Illuminati and Adepts, self-initiated by his own
Divine Spirit, or
" God-Self," into all the mysteries of the invisible
universe. Therefore to speak of imitating "the life of Christ," or
that of Buddha, or Zoroaster, or any other man on earth, chosen
and accepted by any one special nation for its God and leader, is to
show oneself a sectarian even in Kabbalism, that fraction of the
one
"
Universal Science
"—Occultism. The latter is prehistoric
and is coeval with intelligence. The sun shines for the heathen
Asiatic as well as for the Christian European, and for the former still
more gloriously, I am glad to say.
To conclude, it is enough to glance at that sentence of more than
questionable propriety, and more fit to emanate from the pen of a
Jesuit than that of a Kabbalist, which allows of the supposition that
the
"
Brothers
"
are only a branch of the old established firm of
" Devil & Co.," to feel convinced that, beyond some
"
abracadabra
"
dug out from an old mouldy MS. of Christian Kabbalism, J. K.
knows nothing. It is but on the unsophisticated profane, or a very
innocent Spiritualist, that his bombastic sentences, all savouring
of the a che son pittore, that he may produce some sensation. True,
there is no need of going absolutely to Thibet, or India, to find
some knowledge and power
"
which are latent in every human soul
"
;
but the acquisition of the highest knowledge and power requires
not only many years of the severest study enlightened by a superior
intelligence and an audacity bent by no peril, but also as many
years of retreat in comparative solitude, and association with but
students pursuing the same object, in a locality where nature itself
preserves like the neophyte an absolute and unbroken stillness, if
not silence I Where the air is free for hundreds of miles around
"
IAMBLICHOS : A TREATISE ON THE MYSTERIES "
77
of all mephitic influence, the atmosphere and human magnetism
absolutely pure, and no animal blood is spilt. Is it in London, or
even the most country hidden village of England, that such conditions
can be found ?
Bombay, July 20th, 1881.
FOOTNOTES TO
'*
IAMBLICHOS : A TREATISE ON
THE MYSTERIES"
Translated by Prof. A. Wilder, F.T.S.
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 12 (24), September, 1881, pp. 252-253.]
[Iamblichos says :
"
I have the same thing to say to you in regard
to the superior orders which came next after the deities. I am
speaking of the tutelary spirits or demons (i), of heroes or half-gods,
and of souls that have not been tainted by the conditions of life on
the earth (2)."]
(1) Called by the mediaeval Kabalists —Planetary Spirits, and in
the Hindu philosophy —Devas.
(2)
" By the conditions of life
" on our Earth, and only so far as
they have not reached it. No Planetary Spirit (and each human
"
Soul
"—rather Spirit at the beginning of every new Pralaya or
the periodical resurrection to objective and subjective life of our
universe —limited, of course, to our planetary System —is a planetary
pure and formless Spirit), can avoid the "cycle of necessity."
Descending from, and re-ascending to the first starting-point, that
junction in the Infinity where Spirit or Purusha first falls into
Prakriti (plastic matter) or that primordial and yet formless cosmic
matter which is the first out-breathing of the Infinite and Change
less Universal Soul (the Parabrahm of the Vedantins), the Planetary
Spirit has to take shape and form and live successively in each of the
spheres —our own earth included —which compose the great
Maha-Yug, or the Circle of Existences, before he can lead a conscious
EGO-life. Alone the
"
Elementals
"—those half-blind Forces of
Nature —say the Kabalists —which are the confiscations of matter
and of the rudimentary minds of the descending "spirits" who
have failed on their downward way—have not yet lived but will
live some day on earth. The esoteric philosophies of both the
eastern and western initiates, whether Greek or Hindu, Egyptian
or Hebrew, agree on the whole. Whenever they seem to clash, it
will be always found due rather to the difference of terms and mode
78 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
of expression than to any essential difference in the systems
themselves.
[Iamblichos continues :
" What are the peculiarities of the higher
Orders, by which they are distinguished from each other ? . . .
These peculiarities, having been evolved entirely from entities
always existing, will be in all particulars distinct and simple."]
The Maha-Pralaya or the Universal Dissolution occurring at the
end of every
"
Day of Brahma
"
is followed by a Universal Rebirth
at the end of the
"
Night of Brahma
" which corresponds in length
of period to the
" Day." It is the beginning of such a rebirth that
is considered by the vulgar minds as the
"
creation
" of the world,
whereas it is but one of the number of successive existences in an
infinite series of re-evolutions in the Eternity. Therefore, as Spirit
and Matter are one and eternal, the one being thrown into objectivity
by the other, and neither capable of asserting itself per se to our
sensual perceptions unless linked together, these
"
Entities
" have
"
always
"
existed.
"THE CLAIMS OF OCCULTISM"
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 12 (24), September, 1881, pp. 258-260.]
This is the heading of an article I find in a London publication,
a new weekly called Light and described as a
"
Journal Devoted
to the Highest Interests of Humanity, both Here and
Hereafter." It is a good and useful journal ; and, if I may judge
by the only two numbers I have ever seen, one, whose dignified
tone will prove far more persuasive with the public than the pas
sionate and often rude remarks passed on their opponents and
sceptics by its
"
spiritual
"
contemporaries. The article to which
I wish to call attention, is signed by a familiar name, nom it plume —
" M. A. Oxon," that of a profoundly sympathetic writer, of a
personal and esteemed friend ; of one, in short, who, I trust, whether
he remains friendly or antagonistic to our views, would never
confound the doctrine with its adherents, or, putting it more
plainly, visit the sins of the occultists upon occultism and—vice
versa.
It is with considerable interest and attention then, that the
present writer has read
" The Claims of Occultism." As everything
else coming from M. A. Oxon's pen, it bears a peculiar stamp, not
only of originality, but of that intense individuality, that quiet
but determined resolution to bring every new phase, every discovery
in psychological sciences back to its (to him) first principles —
Spiritualism. And when writing the word, I do not mean by it the
"THE CLAIMS OF OCCULTISM"
vulgar
" siance-room
"
spiritualism which M. A. Oxon has from
the very first out-grown ; but that primitive idea, which underlies
all the subsequent theories ; the old parent root from which have
sprung the modern weeds, namely—belief in a guardian angel, or a
tutelary spirit, who, whether his charge is conscious of it or not—
i.e., mediumistic or non-mediumistic —is placed by a still higher
power over every (baptized ?) mortal to watch over his actions
during life. And this, if not the correct outline of M. A. Oxon's faith,
is undoubtedly the main idea of all the Christian-born Spiritualists
past, present and future. The doctrine, Christian as it now may
be—and pre-eminently Roman Catholic it is—has not originated
as we all know, with the Christian but with the Pagan world.
Besides, being represented in the tutelary Daimon of Sokrates, that
ancient
"
guide
" of whom our Spiritualists make the most they can
—it is the doctrine of the Alexandrian Greek theurgists, of the
Zoroastrians, and of the later Babylonian Jews, one, moreover,
sadly disfigured by the successors of all these—the Christians. It
matters little though, for we are now concerned but with the personal
views of M. A. Oxon which he sets in opposition to those of some
Theosophists.
His doctrine then seems to us more than ever to centre in, and
gyrate around, that main idea that the spirit of the living man is
incapable of acting outside of its body independently and per se ;
but that it must needs be like a tottering baby guided by his mother
or nurse —be led on by some kind of spiritual strings by a disembodied
spirit, an individuality entirely distinct from, and, at some time even
foreign to himself, as such a spirit can only be a human soul, having
at some period or other, lived on this planet of ours. I trust that I
have now correctly stated my friend's belief which is that of most
of the intellectual, progressive and liberal Spiritualists of our day,
one, moreover, shared by all those Theosophists who have joined
our movement by deserting the ranks of the hoi polloi of Spiritualism.
Nevertheless, and bound though we be to respect the private opinions
of those of our Brother-Fellows who have started out at the research
of truth by the same path as M. A. Oxon, however widely they may
have diverged from the one we ourselves follow —yet we will always
say that such is not the belief of all the Theosophists—the writer
included. For all that, we shall not follow the nefarious example
set to us by most of the Spiritualists and their papers, which are as
bitter against us as most of the missionary sectarian papers are
against each other and the infidel Theosophists. We will not
quarrel, but simply argue, for
"
Light ! More Light !
" is the rallying
cry of both, progressive Spiritualists and Theosophists. Having
thus far explained myself, M. A. Oxon will take, I am sure,
en bon Seigneur every remark that I may make on his article in
8o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Light which I here quote verbatim. I will not break his flowing
narrative, but limit my answers to modest foot-notes.
[
"
M. A. Oxon
"
gives his impressions of Isis Unveiled and the
statements contained therein about the adepts of Tibet. He refers
also to A. P. Sinnett's The Occult World, and the
"
glimpses revealed
of this silent Brotherhood." He says in part :
" The material sadly needed reducing to order and many of the
statements required elucidation."]
It is not the first time that the just reproach is unjustly laid at
my door. It is but too true, that "the material sadly needed
reducing to order," but it never was my province to do so, as I gave
out one detached chapter after the other and was quite ignorant
as Mr. Sinnett correctly states in the Occult World, whether I had
started upon a series of articles, one book or two books. Neither
did I much care. It was my duty to give out some hints, to point
to the dangerous phases of modern Spiritualism, and to bring to
bear upon that question all the assertions and testimony of the
ancient world and its sages that I could find—as evidence to corro
borate my conclusions. I did the best I could, and knew how.
If the critics of Isis Unveiled but consider that (i) its author had
never studied the English language, and after learning it in her
childhood colloquially had not spoken it before coming to America
half a dozen of times during a period of many years ; (2) that most
of the doctrines (or shall we say hypotheses ?) given, had to be
translated from an Asiatic language ; and (3) that most, if not all
of the quotations from, and references to, other works—some of
these out of print, and many inaccessible but to the few —and which
the author personally had never read or seen,
" though the passages
quoted
" were proved in each instance minutely correct, then my
friends would perhaps feel less critically inclined. However, Isis
Unveiled is but a natural entrde en matiire in the above article, and
I must not lose time over its merits or demerits.
"... the mysterious Brotherhood for whom the author made
such tremendous claims."
Indeed, the claims made for a
" Brotherhood
" of living men,
were never half as pretentious as those which are daily made by the
Spiritualists on behalf of the disembodied souls of dead people !
" The Brothers . . . sought no one, they promised to receive
none."
No more do they now.
" The Theosophical Society, which has been the accepted, though
not the prescribed organization of the Occult Brotherhood."
MIRACLES 81
We beg to draw to this sentence the attention of all those of our
fellows and friends in the West as in India, who felt inclined to
either disbelieve in, or accuse the
"
Brothers of the ist Section
"
on account of the administrative mistakes and shortcomings of the
Theosophical Society. From the first the Fellows were notified
that the first Section might issue occasionally orders to those who
knew them personally, yet had never promised to guide, or even
protect, either the Body or its members.
" We have Mr. Sinnett coming forward ... to give us his cor
respondence with Koot Hoomi, an adept and member of the Brother
hood, who had entered into closer relations . . . with him than had
been vouchsafed to other men."
With Mr. Sinnett —and only so far. His relations with a few
other fellows have been as personal as they might desire.
"
Madame Blavatsky . . . possessed certain occult powers that
seemed to the Spiritualist strangely like those of mediumship."
Medium —in the sense of the postman who brings a letter from
one living person to another ; in the sense of an assistant electrician
whose master tells him how to turn this screw and arrange that
wire in the battery ; never in the sense of a Spiritual medium.
" Madame Blavatsky
" neither needed nor did she ever make use
of either dark siance-rooms, cabinets,
" trance-state,"
"
harmony
"
nor any of the hundreds of conditions required by the passive
mediums who know not what is going to occur. She always knew
beforehand, and could state what was going to happen save infallibly
answering each time for complete success.
MIRACLES
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 12 (24), September, 1881, pp. 266-268.]
That golden treasury of arcane knowledge —the Catholic Mirror —
reports a "magnificent lecture" upon miracles by Archbishop
Seguers. It is a
"
fascinating discourse
" on the
"
manifestations of
supernatural powers of evil spirits," and —" how the demons take
possession of human beings." The most reverend lecturer by select
ing the Masonic Hall of Portland (Oregon) showed much judicious
ness. A "
Jadookhana
" is the most appropriate place for discussion
on such thrilling subjects. Those of our pious readers who have
grumbled at us for giving room to ghastly stories from the pen of
infidels, will give more credit, we hope, to the present one as it
emanates from the divinely authorized and sanctified lips of an
orthodox Bishop.
F
82 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Remarking by way of introduction that the extraordinary
manifestations of a
"
supernatural and mysterious power at Knock
and Lourdes have attracted the attention of the world
"
the lecturer
said he took this opportunity
" to elucidate a subject essentially
mysterious and obscure with which comparatively few persons
are familiar." He, the reverend lecturer, believed in such powers.
" I intend," he said,
"
to treat the subject of miracles, under the
four following heads : ist, The essence and nature of a miracle ;
2nd, The possibility of miracles ; 3rd, The authority of miracles ;
4th, The means to ascertain them, or criterion of miracles."
Space forbidding, we regret our inability to give the whole of the
strictly Catholic philosophy upon this interesting topic. We will
cull but the most exotic of rhetorical flowers and plants. The
learned Bishop after criticising Hume's definition of miracles
offered in lieu of his own.
" I introduce," he said,
" my definition of a miracle, taking it
in a broad, or rather in its broadest sense. We will call miracle,
a wonderful fact or event produced in the visible world by a cause
which is not natural. This definition comprises both miracles, as
I said, in their restricted meaning, and miracles in their widest
or broadest signification. If the cause, that produces the effect
under consideration, is God himself or a spirit acting by God's
positive and direct order, that effect is a miracle in the strict
sense of the word ; if that cause is a created spirit, good or evil,
. acting spontaneously and without positive instructions received
from the Almighty, its effect is a miracle in a broad sense. 1
" The tendency of our epoch has been called rightfully
naturalism. It is against that tendency that we must vindicate
the existence of the
'
supernatural.' Many people deny the
'
supernatural
'
; they think that every fact can be explained and
ought to be explained by natural reasons and causes ; the position
they take is a very weak one and can easily be taken by storm ;
they maintain that God, angels and evil spirits never produce an
effect, never meet a visible phenomenon in the sphere of nature ;
now, if we can prove one fact, only one fact, which has a spirit,
either created or uncreated for cause, this position is taken,
naturalism is exploded and the supernatural is vindicated. And
what have we to do in order to show and prove a fact to be
caused by a spirit ? We must show that the agent of the fact
under consideration is endowed with intelligence and free will."
With regard to this we will permit ourselves a remark. If, in this
1 Truly wise are they, who are enabled to distinguish by the effect the true
nature of the Cause ! As a matter of course this class of divinely appointed techno
logists of black art and white magic can only be found within the holy orthodox
Church, as no layman, least of all a heretic, is competent to judge.
MIRACLES 83
passage, by
"
naturalism
" is meant the denial of a supernatural
agency in the miracles and revelations contained in the Bible, a
disbelief which leads invariably to a thorough rejection of the very
occurrence of the latter the Bishop is right. But the proof of '*
such
an agent endowed with intelligence and free will " would far sooner
lead to belief in Spiritism and Spiritualism than in Christianity.
The former, irrational as it may seem is yet far more logical than the
latter, and belief in
"
Spirits
"
does not at all necessitate belief in God
i.e. monotheism ; our argument being proved by the twenty
million of spiritualists and the eight hundred millions of Buddhists,
Brahmins and many more belonging to other non-christian religions
who are either atheists, polytheists or pantheists. Naturalism,
properly defined, is simply another form of pantheism, that theory
which resolves all phenomena into forces in nature—forces either
blind or intelligent —but ever in accordance with fixed and immutable
laws, and independent of any direction by one intelligent force called
God. And such
"
naturalists
"
believe in invisible beings endowed
with will and various gradations of intelligence. Therefore, we must
again protest against the learned lecturer's assumption when he
says :
" I believe that very few will be found to disagree with me if
I assert that a wonderful event is miraculous, not only when it
evinces intelligence and free will in the unknown agent that enacts
it, but also as soon as it surpasses the known forces of nature."
No real man of science has ever asserted yet that he knew all the
forces of nature; that, therefore, which only "surpasses the
known
"
may be entirely within the existing natural law though that
law be yet unknown. Why should we call the effect
" miraculous
"
for all that ? Enumerating the causes of miracles, the Bishop
speaks of
"
three agents, mysterious agents, who must be considered
as the causes of any phenomenon which is either supernatural or
preternatural —evil spirits, angels, God."
He blames those who disbelieve in a
"
personal devil." No man
can be a Christian, he says, and refuse to believe in Satan.
" The existence of the devil and his evil influence over man is
the very foundation of Christianity ; if there is no Satan, there is
no Redeemer ; if there is no Redeemer, Christianity is a lie.* No,
no, we ought not to consider this matter as devoid of importance ;
it is of the greatest importance, as the whole structure of Chris
tianity rests upon the actions of Satan as on its foundations ; the
extreme of evil necessitates the extreme bounty of a bountiful
Saviour."
After this theological manifesto, the sine qua non of both Cathol-
1 This sentence we are sorry to see is plagiarized word for word by the noble
lecturer from Des Mousseaux work —Mceurs et Pratiques des Dimons, p. 10, and
Hauts Phinomlnes de la Magie. Preface, p. 12. Yet it is eminently orthodox.
84 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
icism and Protestantism, the lecturer spoke on objective and
subjective phases of phenomena, which, he said, were of two kinds.
There was
"
obsession and possession."
"If we consult medical men, they will be called by them
'
hallucinations,' corresponding to obsession, and
'
mysterious
neuropathy, demonopathy, mania,' and several other medical
terms corresponding to possession."
Socrates —he thinks —was
"
obsessed."
" Every one that has, in his classical studies, read a few lines
of Xenophon or Plato, remembers undoubtedly the daimon, the
god (Theos) of Socrates, wherein there is no mention of his god (sic).
Sometimes, while walking with his disciples, Socrates would
suddenly stop and listen to the interior voice of his god.
'
Every
body knows,' says Xenophon,
'
that Socrates was frequently
warned by a demon. ... He said what he thought, and he
maintained that a god (daimon), gave him secret warnings ; and
he warned his disciples to do or not to do certain things according
to the dictates of his genius. Those that followed his directions
did well, and those that neglected them, had to repent of their
folly. Everybody knows that his disciples did not consider him
to be an impostor or a fool ; now, he would have been both if,
pretending to announce hidden things through the inspiration of
his god, he had been found a liar.' Thus writes Xenophon, him
self one of his disciples ; thus speaks Plato, thus testifies Aristo
phanes. Now, there is a question here, not of any superiority of
Socrates' intellectual powers, but of the real inspirations of a god
sent to him by the god at Delphi ; it is Socrates himself that says
so, his disciples understand him to say so ; the general public
know that he says so. There is question of mysterious manifesta
tions of unknown events at the time that they were taking place
at great distances ; for instance, when he announced the defeat
and death of Sannion, when the latter was marching against
Ephesus, there is question of warnings, of presentiments, of
predictions, which found accurate and exact fulfilment. To
maintain that Socrates was a fraudulent knave, is preposterous ;
to assert that he was a fool, is absurd ; he was the wisest, the most
virtuous and most modest of philosophers, the glory of Greece,
and the master of the most illustrious disciples. What, then, shall
we say of this hallucination ? Simply that it is
A HISTORICAL CASE OF ObSESSION,
one which cannot be called in question without shaking the
foundations of the authority of history. Let us conclude this
part of our remarks with one fact borrowed from Plato's Theages,
MIRACLES 85
and then we may dismiss Socrates.
'
Clitomachus,' said the
latter's brother, Timarchus,
'
I die for neglecting to listen to
Socrates !
'
What did he mean ? When he rose from the table
with Philemon, to go and kill Nicias, their object not being known
to any mortal man, Socrates stood up and said :
'
Do not go out ;
I receive the usual warning.' Timarchus stopped ; but a moment
later he rose and said :
'
Socrates, I go.' Socrates heard his god's
voice once more, and stopped him a second time. Finally, the
third time, Timarchus stood up and left, without saying a word,
while Socrates' attention was engaged by something else : and he
did that which led him to his death."
And it leads, moreover, every reasonable man —once that he
accepts the reality of the
" Daimon
"—to firmly maintain that the
latter if it was a
"
Spirit," independent from Socrates, could not be a
bad or evil spirit —least of all a devil, for the fallen angels were never
known to be
"
guardian angels
" and hence —the Bishop is preaching
Spiritualism pure and simple. He is, however, right in remarking
that "some people affect to disbelieve them (the devils), because,
they say, they are never afraid of them. But not to believe and not
to be afraid are two different things. I read about an English
unbeliever, who gloried in his unbounded incredulity, and who
would never sleep alone in a room without a burning lamp," he
added. Nor, as a true son of the Catholic Church, does the lecturer
forget the usual hit at his brother Christians—the Protestants.
"
It
is under this class of phenomena (obsession)," he says, "that we
must rank spirit-rappers, apparitions of ghosts, temptations of
visible spirits under a visible form. Samuel Wesley has left us a
conscientious account of the spirit-rappers that obsessed his father,
the famous founder of Methodism, and especially his sister." . . .
Having done with obsession, the Bishop gives his verdict upon
"possession called by medical men mysterious neuropathy,
demonopathy, monomania, etc., and the difference between
possession and obsession is that the latter exhibits the action
of spirits vexing, tormenting, persecuting a person, whereas
possession implies the presence of spirits in a person, the union
of a spirit with the body, the limbs, the senses of a person, so that
in the case of a possession, the movements, the words of a person
are no more under that person's control, but under the control of
another spiritual agent, who has taken possession of that person's
organism."
After this, the venerable prelate passes on to the symptoms of
possession.
" What are those symptoms that prove and demon
strate the presence and the action of spirits ?
"
he asks, and he answers
86 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
"... the Ritual enumerates the following : ist, the speaking
and understanding by the patient of a foreign language unknown
to him, as was noticeable in the case of that Chinese Christian of
Cochin-China ; 2nd, the revelation of hidden things or of distant
things which cannot naturally be known by the patient, as was
the case with a most remarkable diabolical possession at Loudun
in France, as we read in Dr. Calmeil's book on Insanity ; 3rd,
the exertion of irresistible power, far above the forces of the
patient, as we saw in the case of that hallucinated girl, described
by Dr. Delpit ; 4th, the subversion of all the laws of nature, for
instance, suspension in the air, flight through the air, as we saw
in the life of St. Crescentia, the hanging from the ceiling of a
church with the head down, as we heard from Father Lacour, the
vomiting of hair, needles, pins, thimbles, rags, pieces of glass and
crockery-ware, as was the case with some girls at Amsterdam,
described by Dr. de Weir and accepted by Dr. Calmeil. I am
aware that legerdemain and sleight-of-hand can accomplish
many wonderful things. I saw myself a man suspended from the
ceiling of a room with his head downward, by means of iron shoes
and a loadstone during two or three minutes ; but such practices
are performed with and after due preparation, and no one is
deceived by them, because all know that those tricks had been
prepared and are performed for the sake of lucre. There is no
similarity between the facts of these so-called wizards and the
facts of which I have been speaking : the former show ingenuity
of mind and nimbleness of hands, the latter demonstrate the
presence and action of spiritual and powerful beings, invisible
and consequently strangers to this natural and visible world."
And here we will close our quotations, giving but one more opinion
thereon. The learned Bishop has brilliantly and once more proved
the occurrence of various most weird phenomena, the existence of
which no sane man who has seen them would ever think of denying.
But no more than the long line of his predecessors of the infallible
Church or the unanimous verdict of materialistic science (as infallible
in the opinion of its representatives) has he explained, or even helped
to elucidate the cause of these supposed miracles. His
"
three
agents —evil spirits, angels and god
"—are on a par with the
" human spirits
" of the spiritualists. He who is neither a believer
in the Church's infallibility nor in the doctrines of the spiritists
will ever be satisfied with their respective explanations, for the
contradiction between cause and effect is too palpable, and the
theories both one-sided and unphilosophical. Hence even that
"
magnificent lecture
"
leaves the question as it stood before —both
sub judice and sub rosa.
COMMENTS ON
"
STRANGE APPARITIONS "
87
COMMENTS ON
" STRANGE APPARITIONS "
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 12 (24), September, 1881, pp. 273-274.]
[" N. D. K." in reviewing the memoirs of Colonel Meadows Taylor
gives two authentic instances of apparitions, as related by the
Colonel. One of these was the figure of a lady in England whom he
dearly loved ; it appeared one evening at the door of his tent implor
ing him:
"
Do not let me go." He subsequently received word from
his father that the lady had married on the day of the apparition.
The second instance relates to a young soldier whose figure, in
hospital dress, presented itself to the Captain of his company and
requested that his pay be forwarded to his mother, giving her
address. The Captain made a note of the request, whereupon the
man disappeared. Upon inquiry the Captain found that the soldier
had died on the previous day.
Concerning the first apparition,
"
N. D. K." asks :
"
May it not
be that her astral body streamed forth and made itself visible ?
"
To this H. P. B. remarks :]
We believe such is the case. Intense thought creates and becomes
objective, and there is no appreciable distance in the Infinite Space.
[Regarding the second instance,
"
N. D. K." says :
" It were
profitable ... to know what hermetic philosophy has to say about
the kind of remembrance of, or connection with, our earth that the
Astral Soul continues to enjoy." H. P. B. gives the following
explanation :]
" Nature never proceeds in her work of either creation or destruc
tion by jumps and starts," says the late Eliphas Levi, the greatest
hermetic philosopher in Europe of the present century. The
"
Astral Soul
"
may remain with the body for days after the dissolu
tion of the latter, but separates itself entirely from it but on its
complete disintegration. Such was the belief of the ancient
Egyptians in reference to their mummies, such is the general belief
of the Hindus who say that the souls of their dead sit upon the roof
of the house in which the body breathed its last for ten days and,
therefore, the survivors offer rice-balls to them by throwing them on
the roof. Our belief is that the intense thought and anxiety felt by
the soldier in his dying moments for his mother could very easily
create what the Hindus call a
"
Kama-rupa
"
(a form born of and
generated by the powerful desire of the still living man) to achieve
a certain object, and that form of himself in his hospital dress,
as the
"
astral soul
"
per se is the exact ethereal likeness of the body,
but certainly not of its temporary garments. The soldier realized
the necessity of being recognized by his superior who might not have
88 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
done so had the astral form appeared to him disrobed, and whose
attention, moreover, attracted by the unusual sight, would have
been distracted from the chief purpose which was that of bringing
him naturally to listen and pay due regard to the desire of the dead
man. The soldier must have most certainly made several rehearsals,
so to say, in his imagination, and while yet alive, of the way he
would like to appear before that officer and give him his mother's
address ; and very naturally saw himself in his fancy as he then
was —namely, in his hospital dress. That desire (Kama) faithfully
reproduced the scene planned beforehand, and strongly impressed
upon the thought before the party involved in it and with apparently
an objective reality. . . .
The opinion of hermetic philosophy is unanimous in rejecting the
theory of the modern Spiritualists. Whenever years after the death
of a person his spirit is claimed to have
" wandered back to earth
"
to give advice to those it loved, it is always in a subjective vision, in
dream or in trance, and in that case it is the soul of the living seer
that is drawn to the disembodied spirit, and not the latter which
wanders back to our spheres. Nature —say the Kabalists —opens to
life all its doors, and closes them as carefully behind, to prevent life
from ever receding. Look at the sap in the plants, writes upon
that subject Eliphas Levi, in his Science of Spirits ; examine the
gastric juice in the crucible of human bowels, or the blood in our
veins ; a regular motion pushes them ever onward, and once the
blood expelled, the veins, auricles and ventricles contract and will
not let it flow backward.
"
The living souls of a superior sphere,"
tells us Louis Lucas, "can no more return to ours, than a babe
already born re-enter its mother's bosom." We think as he and
the other hermetic philosophers do, and, therefore, the story of
Samuel coming down once more on earth to curse Saul, though
believed in by the Christian Kabalists, is explained in quite a dif
ferent wise. For them the witch of Endor was an ecstatic seer
who through somnambulism and other occult means placed herself
in direct communication with the mournful and sur-excited soul of
the Israelite king and drew forth out of it the ever present form of
Samuel whose image preyed on his mind. It is from the depths
of the tormented conscience of the murderer of priests and prophets,
and not from the earth's bowels, that arose the bleeding spectre of
Samuel ; and, when apparently his voice was vociferating anathemas
and threats, it was her own lips and those of the pythoness —half
medium and half magician —who, drawing down from space the ever-
living vibrations and notes of the prophet's voice, assimilated them
to hers and reading clairvoyantly in the culprit's mind, repeated
but what she saw engraved by the remorse in the thoughts of Saul.
"
Chaos magnum firmatum est," says Robert Fludd, the great
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 89
mediaeval Rosicrucian and Hermetic philosopher of England.
"
The great chaos consolidates and closes, and those who are above
can no more come down." In a future number we will give the
translation of a chapter of Eliphas Levi's Transition of Spirits or the
Mystery of Death. His views are those of all the Kabalists and
adepts.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
[The Theosophist, Vol. II, No. 12 (24), September, 1881, p, 275.]
Insane by Electricity. A young man, twenty-four years of age,
named George Odette, has just been adjudged insane and committed
to an asylum for lunatics, in Illinois (U.S.A.). His case is very
interesting from a scientific point of view. His madness was caused
by an overwhelming shock of electricity given to him as a practical
joke by some ignorant companions. The American journal from
which the above facts are taken very sensibly remarks upon the
extreme danger there is in suddenly pouring through the delicate
nerve-matter of the brain and spinal-cord a strong current of elec
tricity, and suggests that the best if not the only remedy in such a
case is the application of the vital magnetic current of some powerful
mesmerizer or
"
healer." It might have added that it is equally
dangerous to saturate a nervous patient's brain with mesmeric
fluid, as is too often done by thoughtless tyros in magnetism. The
human vital force is the most potent of all known agencies, and
health of body or mind is only possible when there is a perfect
magnetic equilibrium in one's system. The
"
healer
"
heals simply
by restoring that balance in his patient by the force of his benevolent
desire and will.
FOOTNOTES TO "
THE NEW DISPENSATION DIS
SECTED "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 1 (25), October, 1881, pp. 4-7.]
[The writer, Babu T. Banerji, discusses the merits of the newly-
formed religious sect known as the New Dispensation, whose leader
and inspirer, Babu Keshub Chunder Sen, claims inspiration and the
power of directly communing with God and the Prophets, and
purposes to
"
purify the religions of India." The writer finds a
resemblance between the policy of the new Prophet and that of
Mahomet, and says that many a time his religion has been mistaken
for Christianity in disguise. Speaking of Babu Keshub C. Sen,
H. P. B. says :]
go THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
We believe, that however great the moral mischief produced by
Babu K. C. Sen at present, it will be limited to the small nucleus of
his followers. On the other hand, the world at large may yet be
benefited by the practical instance he affords the modern historian
of pointing out to our immediate successors the correct picture of
the conception, germination, the growth and development of all
the religions founded upon avatarism. We see in it the true retro
spective representation of what were the beginnings and results of
Vishnu, and Christ -worship. We discern in it the possible repetition
of the Mosaic Law, whose cruel dogmatism, crystalized under the
influence of dry, heartless bigotry and intolerance, led finally the
most civilized nations of the world to accepting, the one—Mariolatry
as a faithful copy of Isis and Venus worship, the others —Bible
worship with its suicidal thirty-nine articles as a result, its brain-
murdering theological casuistry, landing into the worst kind of
sophistry, its incomprehensible dogmas, and intellect-killing mys
teries. We may yet see Babu K. C. Sen's mother become a successor
to Isis, Devaki and Mary. Read the New Dispensation and even
the more cautious Sunday Mirror and behold there all the germs
of the Inquisition, Calvinism and the Blue Laws of Massachusetts
combined.
The very name of the
"
New Dispensation
" is an old one. It was
first coined by the Quakers, the followers of old mother Ann Lee, and
is now universally used by the Spiritualists, American Spiritualists
especially never using another term to designate their belief. See
Banner of Light and other spiritualistic papers.
[Fatherhood and Motherhood of God.]
This idea is again bodily taken from the Spiritualists. All the
invocations to the Deity by their trance or
"
inspirational
"
mediums
begin with,
" O Thou Great Father and Mother God." See the trance
lectures delivered by Mrs. Cora Tapan Richmond —the best, at least
the most verbose of the American Spiritual trance-lecturers. See
Banner of Light and other spiritualistic papers. Who knows but
after all the Spiritualists of both hemispheres are right in main
taining that Babu Keshub is but a Medium !
STRAY THOUGHTS ON DEATH AND SATAN
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. I (25), October, 1881, pp. 12-15.]
To the Editor of The Theosophist.
Madam, —Since you have published a posthumous letter of my Master
and beloved friend, the late Eliphas Levi, I think it would be agreeable
STRAY THOUGHTS ON DEATH AND SATAN 91
to you to publish, if judged suitable, a few extracts of the many manu
scripts in my possession, written expressly for, and given to, me by my
ever-regretted Master.
To begin, I send you—" Stray Thoughts on Death and Satan
" from
his pen.
I cannot close this letter without expressing the deep indignation
aroused in me by the base diatribes published in the London Spiritualist
against your Society and its members. Every honest heart is irritated
at such unfair treatment, especially when proceeding from a man of
honour as Mr. Harrison (Editor of the Spiritualist) who admits in his
journal anonymous contributions that are tantamount to libels.
With the utmost respect,
I remain, Madam,
Yours Devotedly,
Baron J. Spadalieri.
Marseilles, July 29, 1881.
Editor's Note.—It is with feelings of sincere gratitude that we
thank Baron Spadalieri for his most valuable contribution. The
late Eliphas Levi was the most learned Kabalist and Occultist of
our age, in Europe, and everything from his pen is precious to us,
in so far as it helps us to compare notes with the Eastern Occult
doctrines and, by the light thrown upon both, to prove to the world
of Spiritualists and Mystics, that the two systems, the Eastern-
Aryan, and the Western or the Chaldeo- Jewish Kabala —are one
in their principal metaphysical tenets. Only, while the Eastern
Occultists have never lost the key to their esoterism, and are daily
verifying and elaborating their doctrines by personal experiments,
and by the additional light of modern science, the Western or
Jewish Kabalists, besides having been misled for centuries by the
introduction of foreign elements in it such as Christian dogmas,
dead-letter interpretations of the Bible, etc., have most undeniably
lost the true key to the esoteric meaning of Simeon Ben Jochai's
Kabala, and are trying to make up for the loss, by interpretations
emanating from the depths of their imagination and inner conscious
ness. Such is evidently the case with J. K., the self-styled London
" Adept," whose anonymous and powerless vilifications of the
Theosophical Society and its members are pertinently regarded by
Baron Spadalieri as
"
tantamount to libels." But we have to be
charitable. That poor descendant of the Biblical Levites —as we
know him to be—in his pigmy efforts to upset the Theosophists,
has most evidently fractured his brain against one of his own
"occult" sentences. There is one especially in the Spiritualist
(July 22), to which the attention of the mystically inclined is drawn
further down as this paragraph is most probably the cause of the
sad accident which befell so handsome a head. Be it as it may, but
92 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
it now disables the illustrious J. K. from communicating
" scient
ifically his knowledge
"
and forces him at the same time to remain,
as he expresses it
" in an incommunicable ecstatic state." For it
is in no other
" state
" that our great modern adept, the literary
man of such a
"
calibre "1 that to suspect him of
"
ignorance
"
becomes equal, in audacity, to throwing suspicion upon the virtue
of Caesar's wife—could possibly have written the following lines,
intended by him, we believe, as a lucid and clear exposition of his
own psycho- Kabalistic lore as juxtaposed to the
" hard words,"
" outlandish verbiage,"
" moral and philosophical platitudes," and
"
jaw-breakers
" of
"
the learned Theosophists."
These are the
"
gems of occult wisdom
" of the illustrious Jewish
Kabalist who, like a bashful violet, hides his occult learning under
two modest initials.
" In every human creature there lies latent in the involitional
part of the being a sufficient quantity of the omniscient, the
absolute. To induce the latent absolute, which is the involitional
part of our volitional conscious being, to become manifest, it
is essential that the volitional part of our being should become
latent. After the preparatory purification from acquired depravi
ties, a kind of introversion has to take place ; the involitional
has to become volitional, by the volitional becoming involitional.
When the conscious becomes semi-unconscious, the, to us, formerly
unconscious becomes fully conscious. The particle of the
omniscient that is within us, the vital and growing, sleepless,
involitional, occult or female principle being allowed to express
itself in the volitional, mental, manifest, or masculine part of
the human being, while the latter remains in a state of perfect
passivity, the two formerly dissevered parts become re-united as
one holy (wholly) perfect being, and then the divine manifestation
is inevitable."
Very luckily, J. K. gives us himself the key to this grandiloquent
gush :
"... necessarily," he adds,
" this is only safely practicable while
1 " To accuse a literary man of my calibre of ignorance, is as amusing a mistake
as it would have been to charge Porson of ignorance of Greek," he writes in the
Spiritualist of July 8. . . .
"
The occult is my special subject, and . . . there is but
little . . . that I do not know," he adds. Now, the above sentence settles the question
at rest with us. Not only an
"
adept
" but no layman or profane of the most widely
recognized intellect and ability, would have ever dared, under the penalty of being
henceforth and for ever regarded as the most ridiculously conceited of—iEsop's
heroes —to use such a sentence when speaking of himself I So stupidly arrogant, and
cowardly impertinent has he shown himself behind the shield of his initials to far
better and more worthy men than himself, in his transparent attacks upon them in
the above-named Spiritualist —that it is the first and certainly the last time that
we do him the honour of noticing him in these columns. Our journal has a nobler
task, we trust, than to be polemizing with those, whom in vulgar parlance the
world generally terms—bullies.
STRAY THOUGHTS ON DEATH AND SATAN 93
living in uncompromisingly firm purity, for otherwise there is
danger of unbalancement —insanity, or a questionable form of
mediutnship."
The italics are ours. Evidently with our immaculate " adept
"
the
" involitional, occult or female principle
" was not allowed to
" express itself in the volitional, mental, manifest, or masculine
part
" of his being, and—behold the results I !
For the edification of our Hindu readers, who are unprogressive
enough to refuse reading the lubrications of "
J. K." or follow the
mental "grand trapeze" performed by this remarkable "Adept"
in the columns of the Spiritualist, we may add that in the same,
article he informs his English readers that it is
" Hindu mystification
acting on Western credulity
"
which
"
brought out the Theosophical
Society."
" Hindu philosophy," according to that great light of the
nineteenth century is no "philosophy" but "rather mysticism."
..." Following the track of the mystifying and mystified Hindus
they (the Theosophists) consider the four above faculties (Siddhis
of Krishna) Anima, Mahima, Leghima and Garima to be the power
they (we) have to strive for."
" Indeed, what a ludicrous confusion
of effect with cause I
"
The fracture of the brain must have been serious indeed. Let us
hope that timely and repeated lotions of
"
Witch-Hazel
" or
"
the
Universal Magic Balm
" will have its good effects. Meanwhile, we
turn the attention of our Hindu readers and students of Occultism
to the identity of the doctrines taught by Eliphas LeVi (who, too, is
contemptuously sneered at, and sent by the
"
Adept
" to keep
company with
" Brothers," Yogis, and
"
Fakirs ") in every essential
and vital point with those of our Eastern initiates.
I
DEATH
BY THE LATE ELIPHAS LEVI
Death is the necessary dissolution of imperfect combinations. It is
the re-absorption of the rough outline of individual life into the great
work of universal life ; only the perfect is immortal.
It is a bath in oblivion. It is the fountain of youth where on one side
plunges old age, and whence on the other issues infancy.1 Death is the
transfiguration of the living ; corpses are but the dead leaves of the Tree
of Life which will still have all its leaves in the spring. The resurrection
of men resembles eternally these leaves.
Perishable forms are conditioned by immortal types.
All who have lived upon earth, live there still in new exemplars of their
types, but the souls which have surpassed their type receive elsewhere
1
Rebirth of the Ego after death. The Eastern, and especially
Buddhist doctrine of the evolution of the new, out of the old Ego.
94 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
a new form based upon a more perfect type, as they mount ever on the
ladder of worlds ;i the bad exemplars are broken, and their matter
returned into the general mass.2
Our souls are as it were a music, of which our bodies are the instru
ments. The music exists without the instruments, but it cannot make
itself heard without a material intermediary ; the immaterial can neither
be conceived nor grasped.
Man in his present existence only retains certain predispositions from
his past existences.
Evocations of the dead are but condensations of memory, the imaginary
coloration of the shades. To evoke those who are no longer there, is but
to cause their types to re-issue from the imagination of nature.8
To be in direct communication with the imagination of nature, one
must be either asleep, intoxicated, in an ecstacy, cataleptic, or mad.
The eternal memory preserves only the imperishable ; all that passes
in Time belongs of right to oblivion.
The preservation of corpses is a violation of the laws of nature ; it is
an outrage on the modesty of death, which hides the works of destruc
tion, as we should hide those of reproduction. Preserving corpses is to
create phantoms in the imagination of the earth ;* the spectres of the
night-mare, of hallucination, and fear, are but the wandering photo
graphs of preserved corpses. It is these preserved or imperfectly destroyed
corpses, which spread, amid the living, plague, cholera, contagious
diseases, sadness, scepticism and disgust of life.6 Death is exhaled by
death. The cemeteries poison the atmosphere of towns, and the miasma
of corpses blight the children even in the bosoms of their mothers.
Near Jerusalem in the Valley of Gehenna a perpetual fire was main
tained for the combustion of filth and the carcasses of animals, and it is
to this eternal fire that Jesus alluded when He says that the wicked shall
be cast into Gehenna ; signifying that dead souls will be treated as
corpses.
The Talmud says that the souls of those who have not believed in
immortality will not become immortal. It is faith only which gives
1
From one loka to the other ; from a positive world of causes and
activity, to a negative world of effects and passivity.
2
Into Cosmic matter, when they necessarily lose their self-
consciousness or individuality, or are annihilated, as the Eastern
Kabalists say.
8
To ardently desire to see a dead person is to evoke the image of
that person, to call it forth from the astral light or ether wherein
rest photographed the images of the Past. That is what is being
partially done in the siance-rooms . The Spiritualists are unconscious
Necromancers.
4
To intensify these images in the astral or sidereal light.
6
People begin intuitionally to realize the great truth, and societies
for burning bodies and crematories are now started in many places
in Europe.
STRAY THOUGHTS ON DEATH AND SATAN 95
personal immortality ;i science and reason can only affirm the general
immortality.
The mortal sin is the suicide of the soul. This suicide would occur if
the man devoted himself to evil with the full strength of his mind, with
a perfect knowledge of good and evil, and an entire liberty of action
which seems impossible in practice, but which is possible in theory,
because the essence of an independent personality is an unconditioned
liberty. The divinity imposes nothing upon man, not even existence. Man
has a right to withdraw himself even from the divine goodness, and the
dogma of eternal hell is only the assertion of eternal free-will.
God precipitates no one into hell. It is men who can go there freely,
definitively and by their own choice.
Those who are in hell, that is to say, amid the gloom of. evil2 and the
sufferings of the necessary punishment, without having absolutely so
willed it, are called to emerge from it. This hell is for them only a
purgatory. The damned completely, absolutely and without respite, is
Satan who is not a rational existence, but a necessary hypothesis.
Satan is the last word of the creation. He is the end infinitely eman
cipated. He willed to be like God of which he is the opposite. God is
the hypothesis necessary to reason. Satan the hypothesis necessary to
unreason asserting itself as free-will.
To be immortal in good, one must identify oneself with God, to be
immortal in evil, with Satan. These are the two poles of the world of
souls ; between these two poles vegetate and die without remembrance
the useless portion of mankind.
Editor's Note. —This may seem incomprehensible to the average
reader, for it is one of the most abstruse of the tenets of Occult
doctrine. Nature is dual : there is a physical and material side, as
there is a spiritual and moral side to it ; and, there is both good and
evil in it, the latter the necessary shadow to its light. To force
oneself upon the current of immortality, or rather to secure for one
self an endless series of rebirths as conscious individualities —says
the Book of Khiu-te, Vol. XXXI., one must become a co-worker with
nature, either for good or for bad, in her work of creation and repro
duction, or in that of destruction. It is but the useless drones, which
she gets rid of, violently ejecting and making them perish by the
1
Faith and will-power. Immortality is conditional, as we have ever
stated. It is the reward of the pure and good. The wicked man, the
material sensualist only survives. He who appreciates but physical
pleasures will not and cannot live in the hereafter as a self-conscious
Entity.
1
That is to say, they are reborn in a
"
lower world
"
which is neither
"
Hell
"
nor any theological purgatory, but a world of nearly absolute
matter and one preceding the last one in the
" circle of necessity
"
from which
"
there is no redemption, for there reigns absolute
spiritual darkness." (Book of Khiu-te.)
96 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
millions as self-conscious entities. Thus, while the good and the pure
strive to reach Nipang (nirvana or that state of absolute existence
and absolute consciousness —which, in the world of finite perceptions,
is non-existence and Mon-consciousness)
—the wicked will seek, on the
contrary, a series of lives as conscious, definite existences or beings
preferring to be ever suffering under the law of retributive justice
rather than give up their lives as portions of the integral, universal
whole. Being well aware that they can never hope to reach the final
rest in pure spirit, or nirvana, they cling to life in any form, rather
than give up that "desire for life," or Tanha which causes a new
aggregation of Skandhas or individuality to be reborn. Nature is as
good a mother to the cruel bird of prey as she is to the harmless
dove. Mother nature will punish her child, but since he has become
her co-worker for destruction she cannot eject him. There are
thoroughly wicked and depraved men, yet as highly intellectual and
acutely spiritual for evil, as those who are spiritual for good. The
Egos of these may escape the law of final destruction or annihila
tion for ages to come. That is what Eliphas Levi means by becoming
" immortal in evil," through identification with Satan.
" I would
thou wert cold or hot", says the vision of the Revelation to St. John
(iii, 15-16).
" So then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold
nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth." The Revelation is an
absolutely Kabalistic book. Heat and cold are the two
"
poles,"
i.e., good and evil, spirit and matter. Nature spues the
"
lukewarm
"
or
" the useless portion of mankind
" out of her mouth, i.e., annihi
lates them. This conception that a considerable portion of mankind
may after all not have immortal souls, will not be new even to Euro
pean readers. Coleridge himself likened the case to that of an oak
tree bearing, indeed, millions of acorns, but acorns of which under
normal conditions not one in a thousand ever developed into a tree,
and suggested that as the majority of the acorns failed to develop
into a new living tree, so possibly the majority of men fail to develop
into a new living entity after this earthly death.
II
SATAN
Satan is merely a type, not a real personage.
It is the type opposed to the divine type, the necessary foil to this in
our imagination. It is the factitious shadow which renders visible to us
the infinite light of the Divine.
If Satan was a real personage then would there be two Gods, and the
creed of the Manicheans would be a truth.
Satan is the imaginary conception of the absolute in evil ; a concep
tion necessary to the complete affirmation of the liberty of the human
will, which, by the help of this imaginary absolute seems able to
STRAY THOUGHTS ON DEATH AND SATAN 97
equilibrate the entire power even of God. It is the boldest, and perhaps,
the sublimest of the dreams of human pride.
"
You shall be as Gods knowing good and evil," saith the allegorical
serpent in the Bible. Truly to make evil a science is to create a God of
evil, and if any spirit can eternally resist God, there is no longer one God
but two Gods.
To resist the Infinite, infinite force is necessary, and two infinite forces
opposed to each other must neutralize each other.1 If resistance on the
part of Satan is possible the power of God no longer exists, God and the
Devil destroy each other, and man remains alone ; he remains alone with
the phantom of his Gods, the hybrid sphinx, the winged bull, which
poises in its human hand a sword of which the wavering lightnings drive
the human imagination from one error to the other, and from the despot
ism of the light, to the despotism of the darkness.
The history of mundane misery is but the romance of the war of the
Gods, a war still unfinished, while the Christian world still adores a God
in the Devil, and a Devil in God.
The antagonism of powers is anarchy in Dogma. Thus to the Church
which affirms that the Devil exists the world replies with a terrifying
logic : then God does not exist ; and it is vain to seek escape from this
argument to invent the supremacy of a God who would permit a Devil
to bring about the damnation of men ; such a permission would be a
monstrosity, and would amount to complicity, and the god that could be
an accomplice of the devil, cannot be God.
The Devil of Dogmas is a personification of Atheism. The Devil of
Philosophy is the exaggerated ideal of human free-will. The real or
Raising the Devil is but realizing for an instant this imaginary per
sonality. This involves the exaggeration in one's self beyond bounds of
the perversity of madness by the most criminal and senseless acts.
The result of this operation is the death of the soul through madness,
and often the death of the body even, lightning-struck, as it were, by a
cerebral congestion.
The Devil ever importunes, but gives nothing in return.
St. John calls it
"
the Beast
"
(la Bite) because its essence is human
folly (la Betise humaine).
Eliphas Levi's (Bonae Memoriae) creed, and that of his disciples.
We believe in a God-Principle, the essence of all existence, of all good
1 And evil being infinite and eternal, for it is coeval with matter,
the logical deduction would be that there is neither God nor Devil —
as personal Entities, only One Uncreated, Infinite, Immutable and
Absolute Principle or Law ; evil or devil—the deeper it falls into
matter, good or god as soon as it is purified from the latter and
re-becomes again pure unalloyed Spirit or the absolute in its ever
lasting, immutable Subjectivity.
G
98 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
and of all justice, inseparable from nature which is its law and which
reveals itself through intelligence and love.
We believe in Humanity, daughter of God, of which all the members
are indissolubly connected one with the other so that all must co-operate
in the salvation of each, and each in the salvation of all.
We believe that to serve the Divine essence it is necessary to serve
Humanity.
We believe in the reparation of evil, and in the triumph of good in the
life eternal.
Fiat.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. i (25), October, 1881, pp. 17-22.]
We have received from our esteemed Australian Brother Theoso
phist, W. H. Terry, Esq., the following interesting and temperate
note on some supposed errors of Occultists when dealing with the
phenomena of Spiritualism. The subject is one of universal interest,
and we shall require, therefore, no apology, either for reproducing
our good brother's communication in extenso, or for appending
thereto some few fragments of the lessons taught us in the Occult
schools, which may possibly both help to remove his personal diffi
culties and tend to convey to Spiritualists generally, a clearer concept
ion of the causes of many of the phenomena of which they have had
experience. Mr. Terry writes upon
Spirits Embodied and Disembodied :
"
Aiming at the resuscitation of old truths, or truths long since known
but lost sight of, and the evolution of new truths, or truths not yet un
folded to the comprehension of humanity, the elucidation and beneficent
application of the innate powers of the human spirit and the encourage
ment of harmonious thought, the Theosophical Society occupies an
elevated and commanding position ; but to maintain and strengthen that
position it is essential that the public utterances of its prominent repre
sentatives should be strictly philosophical and capable of standing the
test of critical analysis. Most of the writings and reported addresses
emanating from my brother Theosophists that have come under my
notice have in their main features complied with this condition, but I
have observed in not a few of them a feature that to me appears to
deviate from it, and that is the ignoring of disembodied human spirits as
factors in the production of occult mental and physical phenomena.
Asserting that
'
man is a spirit
'
and that will is a function of the
spirit, in fact its executive, (and most of those who have not had personal
experience of the wonderful physical phenomena producible at will by
many Indian Yogis and adepts, will on account of the clear evidence of
their occurrence give credence to them,) it cannot be assumed that the
physical body has anything to do with the production of these phenomena.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 99
They are undoubtedly the result of spiritual forces, and, as they come in
response to the desire of the persons who have acquired or are gifted
with the occult power to produce them, they are evidently the result of
invisible forces, guided by the human will, and, unless the physical body
can be shown to be a necessary fulcrum, there is no valid reason why the
disembodied spirit should not be able to produce similar phenomena.
Twenty years of investigation of the phenomena of Spiritualism, Psy
chology, Mesmerism, and Clairvoyance, although it has served to show
me how little I know of the mysteries of nature, has afforded me con
clusive evidence that disembodied spirits can and do produce physical
and mental phenomena on the surface of this world and of the inde
pendent action of their intelligence, at least, so far as the influence of the
embodied spirits of those in communication was concerned. For instance,
A. B., a sensitive, passes into a trance. A voice differing from his normal
one speaks through his lips and says he is C. D. who died in a neighbour
ing colony some years previous, and is anxious to send a message to his
friends there. The message is written as dictated by him, none present
having either heard of him or the persons whose names he gives ; all that
is stated by him proves correct ; the names of his friends, the address, —
the fact of his passing away as specified. Again, a materialized form
appears and asks for a person known to the writer, but who resides some
five hundred miles away ; this form which professes to be identical with
one that has appeared in London and has since given many evidences of
identity of both form and intelligence, avers that he has met the gentle
man whose name he mentioned in London and that the said gentleman
then spoke certain words to him. On writing to this gentleman the
statement is corroborated, though none knew till then anything about it,
and his name even had not been in the mind of the only person present
who knew him.
In these instances which are not at all singular, but rather representative
of common occurrences in my experience, we have a manifestation of
distinct intelligence claiming to be a disembodied human spirit, and
giving proofs, more or less conclusive of its identity, cumulative evidences
of this generally resulting from further intercourse with the unseen in
telligence. In another instance where what professes to be disembodied
human spirit produces certain physical phenomena we appeal to clair
voyance, whilst the phenomenon is taking place in another apartment,
and the clairvoyant describes a spiritual form producing the phenomenon
together with the modus operandi. Subsequently on describing the form
to the only one who had known her in the body it is immediately recog
nized as that of a departed relative who has often written automatically
through a sensitive since her departure from material life. At other times
I have tested with two clairvoyants the identities of one I knew and
loved in this life, and they have each minutely described the form and
dress correctly, but both differing materially from the conception I had
at the time in my mind, and neither of the clairvoyants having knowledge
of the form described when in earth life. With innumerable experiences
of this kind and constant intercourse with intelligences who consistently
maintain their identity as the disembodied spirits of men and women who
have lived on this earth, giving mental and physical evidences of their
ioo THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
power over mind and matter, the position of those Theosophists who deny
to disembodied spirits a legitimate share in the marvellous phenomena
that are agitating the minds of all civilized nations at the present time
seems eminently unphilosophical. I am not so unreasonable as to assume
my personal experiences a demonstration to others. They are merely
given to justify my position. I rely upon my a priori argument that the
phenomena are admittedly producible by the human spirit, and that
there is no evidence forthcoming to show that the said spirit loses its
power in this direction when finally separated from the physical form. If
my Oriental brothers can point out anything illogical in myargument or
furnish a rational theory to account for the phenomena I attribute to
disembodied human spirits, it will receive from me all the consideration
it demands from one whose aim is to gain and give as much light as
possible, not only to our Brotherhood, but to that larger brotherhood of
humanity who have less facilities for acquiring it than those within our
ranks, for this, in my estimation, is the essence of Theosophy."
It is but fair that we should meet the charge brought, and in the
same friendly and frank spirit shown in his letter by our esteemed
Australian brother Theosophist. Until some one more competent,
enters the arena of discussion to pick up the glove flung by Spiritual
ism to Theosophy across the oceans, we will take the liberty of saying
a few words —not in our defence —but as a matter of courtesy to our
correspondent.
" Those Theosophists who deny to disembodied spirits a legitimate
share in the marvellous phenomena
"
are few, indeed, for the great
majority of Theosophists concern themselves with Spiritualism very
little—if at all. Indeed, our members may be divided into five
principal classes and described as follows :
(1) Men profoundly concerned in the revival of their respective
religious philosophies in all their pristine purity —Buddhist devotees
outnumbering all others. These neither know of, nor do they care
for, Spiritualism.
(2) Students of various philosophies, searchers after truth,
whencesoever it may come. They neither believe nor disbelieve
spirits. They are open to conviction in any way, but will accept
nothing on second-hand testimony.
(3) Materialists, Freethinkers, Agnostics, who care as little for
Occultism as they do for Spiritualism. Their only concern is to free
the masses from the fetters of ignorance and superstition, and educate
them. Many, indeed most of them, are philanthropists who hold it
more expedient to devote their energies to the assistance of the living,
than to occupy their time in conversations with the dead.
(4)
Spiritualists and Spiritists who could not well be accused of
any such
"
heresy
".
And finally,
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 101
(5) Occultists, who do not number half a per cent in the Theo-
sophical Society.
These latter are the only
"
Theosophists
" who are really open
to our correspondent's accusation and even these, if we look beyond
the veil of words which more or less conceals the ideas of both
Spiritualists and Occultists, will prove to differ less widely on these
points from our correspondent than he seems to suppose. For, in
this as in so many other cases, it is in a great measure to the different
significations attached to the same terms by the two parties, that
their apparent irreconcilable divergence is due.
" Words," as Bacon,
we think, says,
"
mightily perplex the wisdom of the wisest, and like
a Tartar's bow, shoot backwards into the minds of those that follow
them," and so here the conflict of opinions between Spiritualists and
Occultists is solely due to the fact that the former (who overrate
their quality and character) dignify by the name of
"
spirits
"
certain
reliquiae of deceased human beings, while the Occultists reserve the
name of Spirit for the highest principle of human nature and treat
these reliquiae as mere eidolons, or astral simulacra, of the real spirit.
In order to understand clearly the view of the Occultists, it is
necessary to glance at the constitution of the living human being.
Even the spiritual theory teaches that man is a trinity, composed
of
(1)
a higher spirit, or the
"
Spiritual Soul
"
as ancient philosophers
designated
it
;
{2) its envelope —the etherial form or shadow of the
body—called by the Neoplatonists the
"
animal soul
"
;
and
(3)
the
physical body.
Although from one point of view this
is
broadly correct, yet,
according to Occultists, to render our conceptions of this truth
clearer and follow successfully the course of man after death,
it
is
necessary to subdivide further these three entities and resolve them
into their constituent principles. This analysis being almost wholly
unknown to Western nations,
it
is
difficult in some cases to find any
English words by which to represent the Occult subdivisions, but we
give them in the least obscure phraseology that we can command.
Divisions of the
Spiritualists.
I. The Body.
Subdivisions of the
Occultists.
1. The Physical body, composed wholly
of matter in its grossest and most tangible
form.
2. The Vital principle —or (Jiv-atma)
—
a
form of force, indestructible and when
disconnected with one set of atoms, be
coming attracted immediately by others.
102 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
2. The Animal Soul
or
Perisprit.
. The Spiritual
Soul or Spirit.
The Astral body (Linga-Sharira) com
posed of highly etherialized matter ; in
its habitual passive state, the perfect
but very shadowy duplicate of the body ;
its activity, consolidation and form de
pending entirely on the Kama rupa.
The Astral shape (Kama rupa) or body
of desire, a principle defining the con
figuration of
The animal or physical intelligence or
consciousness or Ego, analogous to, though
proportionally higher in degree than,
the reason, instinct, memory, imagination,
etc., existing1 in the higher animals.
r6. The Higher or Spiritual intelligence or
consciousness, or spiritual Ego, in which
mainly resides the sense of consciousness
in the perfect man, though the lower
dimmer animal consciousness co-exists in
No. 5.
The Spirit —an emanation from the abso
lute, uncreated, eternal, a state rather
than a being.
1
Western Science, of course, as a rule, holds that animals have no
conscious Ego, but this we know to be erroneous ; they possess no
spiritual, but they do possess an animal, consciousness. Could men
communicate with them, they would discover not only this, but also
that many of the anthropoid apes possess an intelligence, conscious
ness, etc., little inferior to that of lunatics and madmen, and some
desperately wicked and depraved men who have, in fact, become
animals, through the loss, temporary or permanent, of their sixth
and seventh principles, even while the combination of the other five
principles is still intact, i.e., even during life.
Was it some hazy tradition of the truth handed down through the
Romish Church, which has ever possessed some secret knowledge of
the teachings of the ancient mysteries, or was it the great Poet Soul's
own glimpses into the Astral Light, that made Dante represent the
souls of several of his enemies as already in the
"
Inferno
"
though
the men themselves still lived upon earth ? Of course, the fragment
of truth thus embodied, was utterly distorted by the malign influence
of the then prevalent material Hell superstition —but it was quite
possible, as the Modern West has still to realize, that the souls of some
of these evil men might have already passed away (though not to the
fabled Inferno), whilst the men themselves till lived.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 103
Now the change that we call death, only immediately affects the
first three constituents ; the body decomposes to enter into new
combinations, and the vital force is dissipated to help to animate
new organisms, and the astral human from (Linga-Sharira) dies with
the body.
There remain four principles. As a rule (we except the cases of
the higher adepts) one of two things occurs in accordance with the
Universal Law of Affinity. If the spiritual Ego has been in life
material in its tendencies, placing its main enjoyment in, and
centring its desires on, material objects and the gratification of
earthly desires, then at death, it continues to cling blindly to the
lower elements of its late combination, and the true spirit severs itself
from these and passes away elsewhere. To follow its course is beside
the present question since the remaining principles in which personal
or animal consciousness remains have parted with it for ever, and it
would require a complete exposition of the entire philosophy of
Occultism to explain fully its course ; suffice it to say, now, that it
passes away (taking with it no fragment of the individual conscious
ness of the man with which it was temporarily associated) to fulfil
its mission, still guided and governed by the irresistible cyclic impulse
which first projected it through the veil of primitive kosmic matter.
But
if,
on the other hand, the tendencies of the Ego have been
towards things spiritual,
if
its aspirations have been heaven-wards
(we use
a
conventional term)
if
it
have, when weighed as
it
were in
the balance,
a
greater affinity for the spiritual than for the earthly
constituents (with their accompanying desires) of the combination
in which
it
recently took part, then will
it
cling to the spirit, and with
this pass into the adjoining so-called world of effects, (in reality,
a
state, and not
a
place), and there purified of much of its still re
maining material taints, evolve out of itself by the spirit's aid
a
new
Ego, to be reborn (after
a
brief period of freedom and enjoyment)
in the next higher world of causes, an objective world similar to
this present globe of ours, but higher in the spiritual scale, where
matter and material tendencies and desires play
a
far less important
part than here.
In either case,
it
is
not
a
matter of Judgment, of Salvation and
Damnation, of Heaven and Hell, but solely the operation of the
Universal Law of Affinity or Attraction, which makes the Ego cling
in one case to the more material, in the other to the spiritual com
ponents of the late, now death-parted, aggregation. Now neither
during its gestation in the subjective world of effects, nor during
its temporary period of the enjoyment in its newly evolved Ego-hood
of the fruits of the good deeds, its Karma on earth, nor after its entry
on rebirth into the higher objective world of causes can the Ego
re-enter this present world. During the first period
it
is, so to speak,
104 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
dormant, and can no more issue from the state in which it is develop
ing than a child can come out of its mother's womb to pay a visit
before the period of pregnancy concludes. During the second period
however etherial and purified of gross matter the regenerated Ego
may be, it is still subject to the physical and universal laws of matter.
It cannot, even if it would, span the abyss that separates its state
from ours. It can be visited in spirit by men, it cannot descend into
our grosser atmosphere and reach us. It attracts, it cannot be
attracted, its spiritual polarity presenting an insuperable obstacle.
Once reborn into the higher world and (independent of the physical
impossibility of any communication between its world and ours, to
all but the very highest adepts) the new Ego has become a new
person ; it has lost its old consciousness linked with earthly experi
ences and has acquired a new consciousness which, as time rolls on,
will be interpenetrated by its experiences in that higher sphere. The
time will come, no doubt, but many steps higher on the ladder, when
the Ego will regain its consciousness of all its past stages of existence,
but in the next higher world of causes, or activity, to our own, the
new Ego has no more remembrance of its earthly career than we
here have of the life that preceded this present one.
Therefore, it is that the Occultists maintain that no spirits of
the departed can appear or take part in the phenomena of siance-
rooms. To what can appear and take part in these, the Occultists
refuse the name of spirits.
But it may be said what is [it] that can appear ?
We reply—merely the animal souls or perisprits of the deceased.
It might appear from what we have said that while this, according
to our previous exposition, would be true in the case of the spiritu
ally-minded, in that of the materially-minded we should have these
plus the spiritual Ego or consciousness. But such is not the case.
Immediately on the severance of the spirit, whether at death, or
(as, we have already hinted, is sometimes the case) before death,
the spiritual Ego is dissipated and ceases to exist. It is the result of
the action of spirit on matter, and it might, to render the matter
more clear, be described as a combination of spirit and matter, just
as flame is the result of the combination of oxygen with the substance
being oxygenized and might loosely be described as the combination of
the two. Withdraw the oxygen and the flame ceases, withdraw the
spirit, and the spiritual Ego disappears. The sense of individuality
in spirit, cannot exist without combination with matter. Thus the
pure planetary spirits, when first propelled into the circle of necessity,
have no individual consciousness, only the absolute consciousness
which they share with all fragments of the spirit hitherto entirely
uncombined with matter. As they, entering into generation, descend
the ladder and grow gradually more and more hemmed in by matter
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 105
and isolated from the universal spirit, so the sense of individuality,
the spiritual Egoship, grows. How finally on re-ascending the circle,
step by step, they regain on reunion with the universal, the absolute
consciousness, and simultaneously all the individual consciousnesses
which they have developed at each stage of their descending and
ascending progress, is one of the highest mysteries.
But to return to the spiritual Egoship developed on this earth ;
if too tainted to follow the spirit in its upward course, it is, as it
were, forthwith torn asunder from it. Left in the terrestrial atmo
sphere without the sustaining spirit that gave it existence, it has to
disappear as the flame does when the oxygen is exhausted. All the
material elements which in combination with the spirit gave it a
consistency, fly by the Law of Affinity to join the two other principles
that remain of the perisprit or animal soul, and the spiritual Ego
ceases to exist.
Thus alike in all cases all that remain, all that can appear, are the
shells of the deceased, the two principles which we call the animal
or surviving astral souls, or animal Ego.
But there is this to be noted. As the clay, as Saadi says, long
retains traces of the perfume of the roses, which once honoured it
with their companionship, so the etherealized matter which has
been in combination with spirit, long retains a power of resisting
disintegration. The more pure the spiritual Ego, the less of the
matter which in combination with the spirit went to form it, does
it leave behind clinging to the two principles ; the more impure,
the greater the mass of such spirit-vitalized matter which remains
to invigorate the reliquice.
Thus it follows that in the case of the pure and good, the shells
rapidly disintegrate, and the animal soul having ever been kept in
subjection is feeble and will-less, and it can very rarely, if ever,
happen that such should voluntarily appear or manifest themselves
—their vitality, desires and aspirations almost exclusively existed
in what has passed away. No doubt a power exists which can compel
even these to appear, a power taught by the evil science of necro
mancy, rightly denounced by all good men of old. But why evil it
may be asked ? Because until these shells have dissipated, a certain
sympathy exists between them and the departed spiritual Ego which
is gestating in the fathomless womb of the adjoining world of effects,
and to disturb the shells by necromantic sorcery is at the same time
to disturb the foetal spiritual Ego.
We said that these shells in such cases rapidly decay, the rapidity
being exactly proportional to the purity of the departed spiritual
Ego, and we may add that similarly the rapidity of gestation of
the new Ego is proportional to the purity of the old Ego out of which it
is evolved. Happily necromancy is unknown to modern Spiritualists,
io6 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
so that it is next to impossible that the reliquice of the good and
pure should ever appear in the stance-room. No doubt, the simulacra
of some spiritual Egos whose fate trembled in the balance, whose
uffinities, earthwards and heavenwards, to use the popular phrase
ology, were nearly equal, who have left too much of the matter
behind that has been in combination to form them, who will lie long
in foetal bonds before being able to develop the new Ego-hood ; no
doubt, we say such simulacra may survive longer and may occasion
ally appear under exceptional conditions in stance-rooms, with a
dim-dazed consciousness of their past lives. But even this, owing
to the conditions of the case, will be rare, and they will never be active
or intelligent, as the stronger portions of their wills —the higher
portions of their intelligence —have gone elsewhere.
Nature draws no hard and fast lines, though in the balance of
forces very slight differences in opposing energies may produce the
most divergent results. All entities shade off from one end to the
other of the chain by imperceptible degrees, and it is impossible for
man to gauge the exact degree of purity of the deceased at which the
re-appearance voluntarily of his reliquice through the agency of
mediumship becomes impossible, but it is absolutely true that,
broadly speaking, as a law, it is only the reliquice of non-spiritually-
minded men, whose spiritual Egos have perished, that appear in
stance-rooms and are dignified by Spiritualists with the title of
"
spirits of the departed."
These shells, these animal souls, in whom still survive the major
portions of the intelligence, will-power, and knowledge that they
possessed when incorporated in the human combination, invigorated
too by the re-assimilation of the spirit-vitalized matter that once
combined with the spirit to compose their spiritual Ego, are often
powerful and highly intelligent and continue to survive for lengthened
periods, their intense desire for earthly life enabling them to seize
from the decaying simulacra of the good and feeble the material for
prolonged existence.
To these eidolons, Occultists are used to give the name of elemen-
taries, and these it is that by the aid of the half-intelligent forces
of nature which are attracted to them, perform most of the wonders
of the siance-rooms. If to these shells, these eidolons, which have
lost their immortality, and whence the divine essence has for ever
departed, our brothers, the Spiritualists, insist on applying the title
of "spirits of the dead
"—well and good —they are not spirits at
all, they are of the earth, earthy, all that remains of the dead when
their spirits have flown—but if this be understood, and it be never
theless considered desirable to call them that to which they are the
precise antitheses —it is after all merely a case of misnomer.
But let there be no mistake as to what they are ; hundreds and
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 107
thousands of lost and ruined men and women all over the globe
attest the degradation to which constant subjection to their influence
in mediumship, etc., too generally leads, and we who know the truth
should ill discharge our duty if we did not warn all Spiritualists in
the strongest terms possible, against allowing this misuse of terms
to mislead them as to the real nature and character of the disem
bodied entities with which they so constantly and confidingly deal.
Now probably Spiritualists will admit that our views would
explain the vast mass of trash, frivolous nonsense and falsehood
communicated through mediums, as also the manner in which so
many of these, good and honest to begin with, gradually grow into
immoral impostors. But many objections will be raised. One man
will say —"
I have repeatedly conversed with my late father—a better,
kinder-hearted, more spiritual-minded man never lived—and on one
occasion he told me a fact, unknown to me, and, I believe, to every
one living, which I subsequently verified."
Nothing is simpler —the father's image was in the son's mind—
thus put en rapport, the disembodied elementary which, if of one of
the more intelligent classes, has glimpses of things in the astral
light, and can here and there dimly distinguish the pictures which
record every deed, word and thought, (pictures which we are all
unconsciously incessantly evolving, pictures which survive long after
those who originated them have passed away) the elementary, we
say, scanning these, easily picks up sufficient facts for its purpose, and
by its will materializes itself, partly out of matter drawn from the
medium's body, partly out of inert kosmic matter drawn to it by the
help of the elementals of half-blind forces of nature which it, and
probably the medium also, has attracted, and stands forth the
counterpart of the dead father and talks of things known only to
that dead father. Of course, if the matter talked of were known to
any present, both elementary and medium, if in a trance, could
equally know it, but we have purposely supposed one of those rare
cases which are considered to be the strongest proofs of
"
spirit
identity," as it is called. Of course, too, every thing that has once
passed before that son's mind, intonation of voice, tricks of manner,
infirmities of temper, though apparently forgotten at the moment,
are really indelibly recorded in his memory, as is proved by their
immediate recognition when reproduced by the elementary who has
fished them out of those dormant records.
And it must be remembered that these apparently strong and
perfect cases are very rare, and that the elementaries who come as
A. or B., usually, if they personate people of any note, make gross
blunders and almost without exception betray their falsehood in one
way or another, Shakespeare and Milton dictating trash, Newton
grossly ignorant of his own Principia, and Plato teaching a washed-out
io8 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Neoplatonic cum sentimental Christian philosophy and so on.
At the same time undoubtedly in rare cases the ghostly relics of very
clever, very bad and very determined men constitute disembodied
entities of high intelligence, which survive for a lengthened period,
and the wickeder and more material they are in all their tendencies,
the longer do they escape disintegration.
The Orthodox Church is much nearer the truth when it calls the
entities that are mostly dealt with in stance-rooms
"
devils ", than
are the Spiritualists who call them Spirits. We do not mean that they
are generally actively malevolent, but their magnetic attractions are
evil, and they incline and lead those with whom they have much to
do to the same evil material passions, which have been their own ruin.
Naturally now some Spiritualists will object that this cannot be
true since despite the mass of folly and gibberish, or worse, often
heard in siance-rooms, the purest sentiments and really lofty ideas
and teachings are not so very rarely expressed through mediums.
Several points have, however, to be borne in mind. In the first
place, though proved unfit for further development, and, therefore,
doomed in most cases by the eternal law of the survival of the fittest
to be disintegrated and, losing personal consciousness, to be worked
up again in the lower worlds into new combinations, all elementaries
are by no means actively wicked all round. On the balance, their
whole natures proved to have a greater affinity to matter than to
spirit, and they are, therefore, incapable of further progress, but
when dealing with a pure circle and speaking through a still pure
medium (very few mediums, indeed, continue thus after a long course
of mediumship) the better and less degraded side of their nature
comes out, and it is quite possible for elementaries to have a perfect
intellectual knowledge of truth, and yet be innately vicious in their
tendencies. We meet plenty of men who have a sentimental love
for virtue, and yet whose lives are one unbroken course of lust and
self-indulgence ; and as the men were, so are the elementaries, their
reliquicB. If we at times speak bitterly of popular modern Christi
anity, it is because We know that with all its other ennobling and
saving tendencies just on this all-important point it leads to the
destruction of myriads of souls, for it leads to the belief that
it signifies little what a man does, if he only finally believes
that his sins are forgiven him, and that by relying on the merits of
Jesus Christ he may escape the vengeance of the Lord. But there is
no anthropomorphic Lord, no vengeance, no forgiveness ; there is
simply the action of a natural law impressed on the universe by the
Absolute—simply a question of balance of affinities, and they, whose
deeds and general tendencies are earthly, go down in the scale, rarely,
very rarely, to rise again in their own identities, and those in whom
these tendencies are spiritual pass upwards.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 109
It is not, however, possible here to enter into the great question
thus glanced at, and we return to the subject of high, or compara
tively high, teachings through mediums.
Now it must not for a moment be supposed that all we hear from
these latter comes from elementaries. In the first place, a great
many well-known mediums are clever impostors. There are notori
ous trance mediums, especially women, who steadily work up for
their so-called trance orations, and these being really clever and
working at good books, deliver essays of a respectable and at times
almost first-class character. There is no spiritual influence at work
here, the only apparently abnormal feature in these cases is that
persons possessing such fair abilities should be willing thus to
prostitute them, and that people who can talk so well and touchingly
of truth and purity, should yet live such lives of falsehood and
immorality. Alas ! tneliora video proboque deteriora sequor, has
ever found a response in too many human hearts and has in all ages
rung the annihilation-knell of too many Egos.
In the second place, in the case of pure and genuine mediums,
who in a trance pass entirely under the influence of their own seventh
principle, the augoeides of the Greeks, the whole teachings come from
the medium's own soul, and it is very rare to obtain thus any thing
higher than the medium's own intellect, when in a state of spiritual
excitement, could produce.
It may be said that in many such cases, the medium says himself
or herself, that it is Judge Edmonds, or the late Bishop of etc.,
that is teaching him or her, but this is merely due to the intervention
of mischievous elementaries who are always crowding about every
medium, and who, if he is too pure, to enable them to get command
over him, yet ever anxious to get a finger in every pie, confuse and
deceive him. Only an adept can clearly and consciously place the
spiritual Ego wholly under the domination of the Spirit. Mediums
who in trances, unconsciously succeed in doing this, are unaware
of the source whence they derive their perceptions and can be made
to believe by any elementary exerting any influence over them,
through any weak point in their character, that these are derived
from it. The same, though in a minor degree, is the case with those
rare, high, because specially pure, mediums, whose Ego and Spirit
can soar together, when the rest of the combination is in a trance,
into the astral light, and there can read all the highest thoughts that
man has ever thought. True, the Ego of the highest and best
mediums can reproduce in this material world only in a fragmentary
and confused manner what it reads in the astral light, but still even
this dim reproduction is something of a character far transcending
the capacities alike of the medium and all those present. How it
no THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
comes that the thoughts thus fished up like pearls out of the astral
light come often to be attributed by the medium to spirits We have
already explained.
But an even more common source of inspiration of mediums, is the
mind of one or more of those present. When in a trance, the spiritual
soul, (the sixth and seventh principles) can read all that is recorded in
the mind or memory of those towards whom it is in any way attracted,
and the medium's utterances will in such cases be quite up to the
highest standard of those with whom it is thus en rapport, and if
these are pure, highly cultivated persons, the teachings thus received
will be equally pure and intellectual. But here again the unconscious
medium as a whole does not know whence its perceptions are being
derived. In its spiritual soul it knows no doubt, but in its combina
tion with the other principles—a combination necessary for the
writing or speaking of those perceptions, —it is quite in the dark and
can be impressed by any elementary, of sufficient force, at hand,
with any conception in regard to this point that it chooses to convey.
In truth, mediumship is a dangerous, too often a fatal capacity,
and if we oppose Spiritualism, as we have ever consistently done, it
is not because we question the reality of the phenomena, which,
we know, can and do occur (despite the multitudes of fraudulent
imitations) and which our adepts can reproduce at will without danger
to themselves, but because of the irreparable spiritual injury (we say
nothing of the mere physical sufferings) which the pursuit of Spiritual
ism inevitably entails on nine-tenths of the mediums employed.
We have seen scores, nay rather hundreds of, so to say, good, pure,
honest young men and women, who but for the cultivation of this
evil capacity for the reception of impressions by elementaries,
might, and would in all probability, have lived fives leading to higher
things, but who through the gradual pernicious influence of these
low, earth-bound natures have sunk, from bad to worse, ending,
often prematurely, lives that could lead but to spiritual ruin.
These are no speculations —we speak that we do know—and if
one in five mediums, who habitually exercise their capacity, escape
the doom that overtakes so many, these exceptions cannot justify
the Spiritualists in aiding and abetting the crowd of professional
mediums who gamble away their immortality with the lower material
influences. The practice of mediumship for good purposes, at rare
intervals, by virtuous mediums, intermediately (sic) ever careful to
strengthen their moral and spiritual natures, by pure lives and holy
aspirations, is one thing, and the habitual practice, in a worldly,
careless, undevout spirit, for gain is another, and this latter cannot
be too strongly denounced alike in the highest interests of the medium
and of the sitters who employ them.
" Evil communications corrupt good manners
"
is an eternal
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH hi
truth, trite and hackneyed though it be, and no evil communications
are so evil as those subtle influences, that radiate from the low,
bestial elementaries who crowd the siance-rooms of immoral, or more
or less demoralized, mediums, too weak and low to make themselves
heard or seen, but strong enough in their intensely material
tendencies, to diffuse a moral poison into the mental atmosphere of
all present.
That men bewildered amidst the crumbling ruins of effete religions,
should madly grasp at every clue by which there seems some faint
hope of penetrating the cloud-shrouded labyrinth of the mystery of
the universe, is neither wonderful nor reprehensible, but it is not
through mediums, the prey of every idle spook and elementary that
that great truth is to be reached, but by that rigorous course of study,
self-discipline and self-purification which is taught in the temple of
Occultism to which Theosophy is, in the present day, the high road.
But we digress. Whether he accepts our explanations or not, (and
we know that they are true) our correspondent will, we believe, admit
that in what we have written we have explained according to our
philosophy, not only the particular instances he quotes, but at the
same time the modus occurrendi of most of the phenomena of the
siance-room, and though in doing this we have glanced at numberless
subjects of the highest importance requiring much further explana
tion, we have already so far exceeded the space usually allotted to
such disquisitions that we must, however unwillingly, close, for the
present, this interesting discussion.
II
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 157-160]
Mr. W. H. Terry, F.T.S., of Melbourne, Australia, whose letter
on
"
Spirits Embodied and Disembodied
"
called forth certain
explanations under the heading " Fragments of Occult Truth,"
in the October number, finds our elucidation of the occult
mysteries underlying the external facts of spiritualism, an unsatis
factory solution of the difficulties presented to the mind even by
"the few instances of assumed spirit communication" which he
originally presented for consideration. The letter in which he replies
to our explanations is as follows :
" In The Theosophist for October, in conjunction with my letter on
'
Spirits Embodied and Disembodied,' appears an outline from your pen
of Occult Philosophy intended as a reply to my strictures on the attitude
of some Theosophists in relation to Spiritualism. The theory there pro
pounded, although it may absolve the Occultist from inconsistency in the
112 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
direction indicated by me, does not, in my opinion, satisfactorily explain
even the few instances of assumed spirit communication quoted in my
letter, but of that anon.
"
I am desirous not only of arriving at
'
Truth
'
myself, but of assisting
others in the same direction, and how can we better do this than by pre
senting the result of our experiences in search of it ?
"
Theosophy (as I understand
it)
is
a knowledge of the secrets of nature
acquired by intercourse with God
;
it
is
not to be assumed, however, that
the latter expression implies direct communion with the Great Spirit of
the Universe, but rather rapport with the higher spheres of spirit, the
Great Vortex of Spiritual Knowledge.1
"
The result of my experiences up to the present time has been to show
that the Human Spirit not only retains its individuality and memory of all
that
is
worth retaining of its earthly existence, but as
it
ascends by
a
series of progressive unfoldments to higher states of existence, knowing
more of God and his works,
it
becomes a vehicle for the transmission of
'
God Knowledge
'
to its less favourably situated brethren in earth life.
"
Now you say you know that the Occult theory
is
correct.
I
might,
with equal justice, say
I
know that my theory is, because all my experi
ences so far confirm
it
;
but
it
is
only in this sense that
I
do know
;
further
experience may modify or change my belief, for
I
am not so presumptuous
as to imagine
I
have reached the ultima thule of knowledge in this direction.
So far my position stands best, for as yet you have only unfolded
a
theory
whilst
I
have given facts which, even were your theory substantiated,
would not be entirely covered by it.
I
will not, however, analyze either
the theory or the facts as most of the readers of The Theosophist who are
familiar with the subject treated upon, will be able to judge for them
selves, but will add some further reasons why
I
am constrained to believe
in the continuity of individuality and the preservation of the unity of
soul and spirit after the dissolution of the more material physical body.
First then during my early experiments my arm was influenced by what
purported to be disembodied human spirits who wrote in handwritings
different from my own and whose earthly autographs
I
had never seen.
Moreover,
I
was generally alone when these writings were done. Yet
when subsequently
I
was enabled to compare them with the autographs of
the writer whose spirit professed to control my arm, they were found to be
facsimiles of the automatic writing. Again for the past fifteen years an
intelligence who professes to have existed on this earth in human form
upwards of
a
century since, and who exhibits
a
distinct individuality, has
conversed with me by magnetic impression, and occasionally orally
through various media, has advised me on medical and other matters
pertaining to the welfare of humanity, has comforted and consoled me in
distress, and encouraged me in well-doing. He has been seen again and
again by seers and seeresses who describe him as
a
fine intelligent and
benevolent-looking man. For the period
I
mention,
I
have ever found
him wise and truthful, and he endorses the spiritual theory of the con
tinued personality of spirit and its progression from plane to plane as
it
increases in wisdom and purity, can
it
be wondered at that
I
should attach
1
We object to this definition.
"
Theosophy
" means
" divine
"
or God-Wisdom.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 113
importance to, and have some faith in, this intelligence, a faith founded
upon a substantial experience ?
" You speak of the deterioration of mediums as a natural sequence of
mediumship ; in that I might almost say I know you err for I have had
media whose whole natures have refined and beautified on the practice of
their mediumship, but it is the wise use of it that leads to this result :
excess of any good thing inverts its issue. I am quite aware of the
tendency to deterioration in public media, especially those who are
mediums for materialization and purely physical phenomena, but there
are adequate causes to account for this within the spiritual philosophy,
the first of which is the psychological influence of those who come to
witness the phenomena with minds full of suspicion and animated with a
desire to detect what they have in many instances decided beforehand to
be a fraud ; secondly, the influences from the spiritual side attracted by
such conditions ; thirdly, the more material nature of the lower order of
spirits, which facilitates their manifesting in this direction ; fourthly, the
deterioration of moral tone that inevitably follows the decadence of
the religious sentiment (which in many cases was the primary motor to the
pursuit of mediumship) when its practice becomes purely a matter of
business. Are not these causes adequate to account for the deterioration
of tone and moral decadence of many media ? Surrounding a medium of
this class with good moral influences and so circumstancing him as to
keep the selfish propensities in abeyance, will prevent all this. I have an
instance in the person of Mr. George Sprigg who, for five years, has been
a medium for materialization. During the year I have known him, his
health and intellect have undoubtedly improved rather than deteriorated
and as far as a most intimate acquaintance will allow me to judge, his
moral nature has not deteriorated one iota."
The main point on which our correspondent insists, is that he has
had intercourse with a spirit himself and cannot, therefore, be talked
out of a conviction that spirits exist. The teaching he has received
by subjective impressions, and oral communications through other
mediums, — (we say "other" because our correspondent is clearly
mediumistic himself, which accounts for the tenacity of his belief,) —
constitute a substantial experience, which is fortified by the testi
mony of some seers who have perceived, in a shape visible to them,
the individuality conversing with our correspondent and describe
him as a being of a dignified appearance and apparently an elevated
type of mind.
" You say
"
writes our correspondent
"
you know the
occult theory is correct ; I might with equal justice say I know that
my theory is." Here lies the all-important difficulty. Who shall
decide, —says the familiar proverb—when doctors disagree —that is
to say, when people both professing to know, make statements that
are incompatible with each other. (Clearly in such a case one of the
conflicting statements rests on a misconception of what constitutes
knowing of what real knowledge consists.) This question takes us
up into an elevated region of metaphysics ; but it is only by the light
H
ii4 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
of metaphysics that we can possibly secure a sufficiently wide-reaching
prospect of the questions to be dealt with, to feel sure we are not
misled by the mere shows and seeming of its minor details.
What constitutes real knowledge ? The question lies at the very
threshold of occult study. We say so, not merely because of the
prominent way in which it crops up in this discussion, but, because
as a fact, having nothing to do with the questions now raised by
Mr. Terry, nor with Spiritualism, nor with any controversies in the
ordinary world, that query is, in actual practice, the first put before
a regular student of occultism, who is taken in hand by the Professors
of the Occult World. And the student is taught,—or is led to see, —
that there are two kinds of knowledge, the real and the unreal ; the
real concerned with eternal verities and primal causes, the unreal
with illusory effects. So far the statement seems to deal with
abstractions too vague to challenge denial. Each school of thinkers
will admit so much, reserving to itself the assumption that the
illusory effects are those considerations which have fascinated its
rivals ; the eternal verities its own conclusions. But we no sooner
come to a clear understanding as to what mental presentments must
be classed as illusory effects, than we find the first proposition of
Occult Philosophy at war with the whole current practice of the world
at large, as regards all classes of scientific investigation. All physical
science, and a good deal of what the Western world is pleased to call
metaphysical speculation, rests on the crude and superficial belief
that the only way in which ideas can get into the mind, is through
the channels of the senses. The physicist devotes all his efforts to
the careful elimination from the mass of materials on which he builds
up his conclusions, of everything except that which he conceives
to be real fact —and it is exactly that which he conceives to be real
fact, —anything clearly appealing to the senses —which the profound
philosophy of Eastern Occultism deliberately condemns at starting
as, in its nature, illusory effects, transitory secondary consequences
of the real underlying fact. And in acting thus, does Occult Philo
sophy make an arbitrary choice between rival methods, as a chemist
might select one or other of two different methods of analysis ?
Not at all. Real philosophy cannot make any choice arbitrarily :
there is but one eternal verity and, in pursuit of that, thought is
forced to travel along one road. The knowledge which appeals to the
senses cannot but deal with illusory effects, for all the forms of this
world and its material combinations are but pictures in the great
dissolving view of evolution ; there is no eternity in any of them.
By mere inference from physical facts, science, proceeding on its
own methods, will recognize that there was a time in its history before
any of the life germs on this earth (whatever they may be) had settled
into the forms in which they manifest themselves now, Assuredly
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 115
there will come a time when all these forms will disappear in the
progress of cosmic change. What preceded them, provoking their
evolution from fiery nebulae, what traces will they leave behind ?
From nothing they came ; into nothing they will return according
to the doubly irrational reply which is the only logical inference from
the physical philosophy which makes them the real facts, —the only
basis of real knowledge.
Of course, it must be remembered that the unreal knowledge,
proceeding from the observation of illusory, because transitory and
secondary effects, hangs together satisfactorily as regards the short
chain it is able to construct. This it is which leads so many, in many
respects powerful, minds, to be blindly contented with it. Some of
the laws of matter can be detected
(if
not understood) by mere
observation of matter. But it
is
obvious that the something out of
which matter proceeded, the something into which
it
will return, can
not be observed by material senses. In what other way can observa
tion be extended beyond the range of material senses
?
Only
if
it
can
be so extended,
is
any knowledge attainable by Man which has to do
with eternal verities and primal causes, which
is
real as distinguished
from the transitory and the unreal
?
Promptly, in ignorance of the
methods by which observation can be extended beyond the range
of the senses, the physicist declares, —concerning the hypothetical
eternal verities you can only dream and indulge in illusory conjecture
—all mere brain-spun fancy. Thus the world at large, not content
with hugging illusions and calling them realities, spurns the reality
and denounces
it
as illusion.
But can the eternal verity be reached
?
Even
if
hard facts be
acknowledged as illusion so far as they are transitory,
is
not that
which
is
exempt from change removed from observation
?
Must we
not follow up the theoretical admission of the possibility of real
knowledge, by the practical admission that no human being can ever
have anything to do with
it
?
Now the consistent materialist who
honestly believes that
a
man
is
simply
a
structure of gas, phosphates,
etc., functioning within itself entirely, would have to be answered
by reference to facts which
it
is
unnecessary to rehearse in dealing
with controversialists who recognise at all events that the living
body includes
a
spiritual principle, and that the spiritual principle
is
capable of a life apart from the body when the body itself
is
dead.
There can be no difficulty for
a
spiritualist in the way of the concep
tion that
if
the spirit of
a
man lives, observes, thinks, and communi
cates its impressions, after the body
is
burned or buried, so under
peculiar conditions, that same spirit may separate itself from the
body temporarily during life and may thus get into such relation
with the world of spirit, as to take direct cognisance of its phenomena.
Now
it
is
quite clear that relatively to our own, at all events, such
a
n6 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
world is a world of eternal verities. We know that this world is
fleeting and transitory. It is readily conceivable, and all analogies
suggest the conclusion, which every sort of spiritual statement
confirms, that the world of spirit is more durable. So, as that
knowledge is real which lasts, and that is unreal which passes away,
the spirit of man which comes into direct and conscious relations
with the world of spirit acquires the real knowledge,1 the spirit of
man which lives imprisoned in the body and is merely led through
the senses with crumbs of knowledge, possesses the unreal only.
But when the imprisoned spirit does not itself rise into direct
relations with the world of spirit, but is visited by an emanation
from the world of spirit, —or by a spirit, (to work with the spiritual
istic hypothesis for a moment,) is it entitled to assume that it is
coming into possession of real knowledge ? Certainly not ; for
though discussing spiritual things, it is acquiring its knowledge in
no Way which essentially differs from the method by which mere
knowledge of the purely physical sort, knowledge of illusory effects
is acquired. The spiritualist, even when himself a medium sitting
in receipt of communications, is taking in knowledge just as unreal,
just as untrustworthy, and liable to be distorted by an erroneous
observation as that which is dealt with by the wholly unspiritual
observer of matter. . This is the point we have been leading up to
and is our reply to Mr. Terry's contention that when we say we know
the occult theory is correct, he might with equal justice say he knows
his theory is. It was a very natural thing for him to say, but, in
reality, he is entirely unjustified in saying it. He is not in a position
to trust to his own observation. Will the reader please refrain even
for an instant from imagining that the form of our argument rests
in any sort of way on an arrogant personal claim set up in opposition
to that of our correspondent ? It is enough for us to know at second
hand, that the theory set forth in our preceding article, is correct.
There are those who know, of real personal knowledge, and they are
living men who can communicate their knowledge to other living
men, who, in receiving it, however commonplace themselves, are
not subject to fall into the mistakes which ordinary men may clearly
be liable to make when they attempt to take their teaching from the
" spirit world
"
direct.
Who possess the real knowledge as contradistinguished from the
unreal ? —the student of Occultism is asked, and he is taught to
reply—that which we have shown to be the only possible reply—
" the adepts alone possess the real knowledge, their minds alone
being en rapport with the universal mind." Now it is the teaching
1 As in the case, say —of an initiated adept, —who brings back upon earth with
him the clear and distinct recollection—correct to a detail —of facts gathered, and
the information obtained in the invisible sphere of Realities.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 117
of the adepts1 that Spiritualists, —in ninety-nine cases of a hundred
—are mistaken when they think themselves in contact with the
spirits of departed friends, or with such benevolent beings of another
sphere as him with whom our present correspondent believes himself
to converse ; and to us, who know something of who, and what the
adepts are, that is conclusive as to the fact. But the fact being so,
every conception of Spiritualism which conflicts with it must be
explainable—every incident of Spiritualism must be susceptible of
transfer to some group of phenomena which can be shown to be some
thing different from what Spiritualists imagine it. While the
phenomena of Spiritualism are thrown off in all directions so freely,
it is nearly impossible to follow them up in every case and, as regards
the general subject, it is best to try and explain, as we sought to do in
the last of these articles, why the phenomena of Spiritualism cannot
be what Spiritualists think them, rather than why each in turn is
actually something else. But it is only due to our correspondent
whose letters have furnished the text of this occult sermon that
the special incidents he quotes should be discussed in detail.
First then as regards the automatic writing of which Mr. Terry
speaks :—We need not go further than the personal experience of the
Editor of this magazine to show Mr. Terry that the production
through a medium's arm of handwriting, the facsimile of that
produced in life by an alleged spirit, is no proof of the alleged spirit's
identity at all,—nor even of its individuality. A certain Russian
lady who was afflicted or gifted (whichever way the reader likes to
put
it)
with mediumship in her youth was
" controlled
" for about
six years by a
"
spirit
"
who came evening after evening and wrote
reams through the child's arm in the usual automatic way. The
spirit professed to be that of an old lady who had lived in
a
part of
Russia far away from that in which she was then manifesting herself.
She gave many details of her life and family and told how her son
had committed suicide. Sometimes the son came himself (in spirit)
and controlled the little medium's arm and gave long accounts of
his remorse and sufferings consequent on the crime of self-murder.
The old lady was eloquent on the subject of Heaven and its inhabi
tants, including the Virgin Mary. Needless to say that she was garru
lous concerning the circumstances of her own death, and the inter
esting ceremony of the last sacrament. But she also wrote of
worldly matters. She gave a detailed account of
a
petition she had
1
Those real, genuine adepts who neither thrust themselves upon the public
notice, nor do they invite us at the top of their voices
:
—"
Come all ye, poor ignorant
fools, come to me .
.
. come to learn from me who has nothing more to learn since he
has made himself omniscient—how to reach
'
Christ-State
'
and Buddha-State.
.
. ."—
Our adepts compare themselves neither with Christ nor Buddha
;
not even with
Ammonius Sakkas—the Thbodidaktos or the
"
God-Taught
" Seer
;
but they
may be all that combined, and much more, since they are
a
Body
of
men—not one
isolated, se//-taught individual.
Ii8 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
presented to the Emperor Nicholas and the text of it, verbatim. She
wrote partly in Russian, partly in German, which the child-medium
at the time knew very slightly. Eventually one of the young lady's
relatives went to the place where the spriit had lived Yes : she
was well remembered ; she had been troubled by a dissolute son who
committed suicide ; she had gone away to Norway where it was
believed she had died, etc., etc. All the automatic communications
were verified, in short, and the petition was turned up in the archives
of the Home Office at St. Petersburg. The handwriting was perfectly
reproduced. Now what better identification could a spirit have ?
Would not Mr. Terry on such an experience say —" I know that the
spirits of dead persons can communicate and prove their continued
individuality ?
" A year after the identification of the deceased
person at the place where she had lived and of the petition, etc.,
there came to T where the young medium and her people were
living, an officer who proved to be the nephew of the
"
spirit."
He chanced to show the child a miniature. She recognized it as
that of the spirit. Explanations ensued and it turned out that
Madame —the officer's aunt, was not dead at all ; nor was her son.
In all other respects the mediumistic communications were perfectly
well substantiated. The son had attempted to commit suicide, but
the bullet with which he had shot himself had been extracted, and
his life had been saved.
Now, without going further, this story as a mere statement of
facts is enough to answer Mr. Terry's story about the automatic
writing through him. It shows that without the instrumentality of
any deceased person's
"
spirit
"
at all, automatic writing attributed
by spiritualists to the agency of such spirits may take place ; there
fore, that no weight can be attached to the experiences on which Mr.
Terry partly relies, when he says or implies that he knows his theory
is correct. But we may go somewhat further and endeavour to
account for the Russian story at any rate by the occult
"
hypothesis,"
as some of our readers will no doubt regard it. Who, or what was the
intelligence writing through the hand of the Russian child-medium ?
The Devil ? —as the priests of the Greek Church contended ; some
lying spirit ? —as the spiritualist might suggest ; the elementaries ?
—as some readers of occult literature might conceive. No ; it was
the fifth principle of the medium herself, her animal, or physical soul,
the portion of the Universal Proteus, and it acted as the soul of
the clairvoyant acts during the sleep of the body. The officer, who
ultimately visited T , and showed the miniature, had been
acquainted with the family several years previously. The medium
had seen the picture when quite a young child, but had forgotten it
utterly. She had also played with various things that had belonged
to Madame and had been in her nephew's possession.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 119
Preserving faithfully the memory of all it saw and heard in the
" Astral Light," or in the " Soul of Things
"
(many readers will, no
doubt, comprehend the allusion here to the book of that name) while
playing with the miniature and other trifles, the young medium's
inner-self, years afterwards, owing to some associations of memory,
began one day unconsciously reproducing these pictures. Little
by little the inner-self, or fifth principle, was drawn into the
current of those personal or individual associations, and Madame
's emanations, and once the mediumistic impulse given —bon
voyage —nothing would arrest its progress. The facts accurately
observed by the
"
Flying Soul
"
were inextricably mixed up with pure
fancy derived from the teaching to which the medium had been
subjected, and hence the account of Heaven and the Virgin Mary.
Mutatis mutandis a similar explanation would, in all probability,
meet the case not merely of the automatic writing, of which Mr.
Terry speaks, but also of the guiding or protecting spirit, who
mentally impresses him, and has been seen by seers and seeresses.
That the teaching of this intelligence confirms the spiritualistic
doctrine of progression from place to place and so forth, is strongly an
indication of its real emanation from Mr. Terry's own mind and the
fact that the supposed spirit has been seen by clairvoyant mediums
cannot be taken as proof of its objective existence. The pictures in
the astral light present all the appearance of reality to those who can
discern the"m, and Madame 's appearance was as real to our
medium in T as that of any spirit ever materialized in the
wonderful seance-room of the Eddy Brothers in America, though
the good lady herself all the while was quietly attending to her
knitting with the breadth of Europe between her and the family
circle which she had unconsciously entered as a spectral guest.
The difficulty of distinguishing between the creations of the seer's
brain and spectral or spiritual phenomena really external to himself,1
appears to be the cause of the confusion into which untrained,
uninitiated observers fall when natural mediumistic gifts enable
them to cross the threshold of the world of spirit and awake to a
perception of the wonders hanging like an aura around the physical
planet. From Socrates to Swedenborg, from Swedenborg to the
latest clairvoyant, no uninitiated seer ever saw quite correctly.
But whatever confusing influences have been brought to bear on
natural seers of past times, none have been beset with the artificial
1 The few exceptional cases of genuine spirit-communications will be treated of
in one of the future parts of
"
Fragments
"—as the greatest attention and caution
must be bestowed upon the subject to avoid every possible misunderstanding.
Before we rebuild a house, we have to pull down the old structure. We know that
we shall displease many and receive no thanks for it. But it cannot be helped. The
Spiritualists having insisted upon having our opinion, we must be left to proceed
systematically.
120 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
bewilderments that operate to cloud the faculties of the modern
spiritualistic medium. A great mass of prepossessions occupy his
mind at starting ; every observation he makes, is twisted into the
mould of an elaborate predetermined theory, and every picture pre
sented to his finer senses is distorted to suit the expectations of his
fancy and coloured to the complexion of a previously formulated
creed. The spiritualist may honestly believe himself a seeker after
truth, but the spiritualist, who is himself in any degree a medium,
is fascinated by the creations of his faith and borne away on an
induced current into a phantasmagorial world peopled with his own
imaginings. Their apparent reality confirms the conjectures from
which they spring, and all suggestions which claim a reconsideration
of their character seem almost a blasphemy to their eager devotee.
But to the student of occult philosophy there is a grander beauty
in the consistent teaching of adeptship, than in the startling excite
ment of mediumistic revelation, while over it all there shines, for
him, the solemn light of absolute truthfulness. Mediumship may
afford sudden glimpses of unsuspected wonder —as bits of a strange
landscape may be momentarily revealed by lightning, but the science
of adeptship casts the steady light of day upon the whole scene.
Surely the spiritualists, who have at least shot leagues ahead, in
intelligence, of the mere materialistic moles of their purblind
generation —in so far as they recognize that there is a landscape
to be seen if it can only be lighted up—will not deliberately prefer
to guess at its features by the help of occasional flashes from the
fitful planes of mediumship, but will accept the aid of that nobler
illumination which the elevated genius and untiring exertion of
Occult Sages of the East have provided for those whose spiritual
intentions enable them to appreciate its sublimity, and confide their
aspirations to its guidance.
Ill
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 12 (36), September, 1882, pp. 307-314.]
Our friend and Brother, Mr. W. H. Terry, returns to the charge.
He is in no way satisfied with our explanations of spiritualistic
phenomena ; he still clings to the theories of Spiritualists and rejects
the facts of the Occultists.
But he will, naturally enough, say that this is begging the question,
and that he sees no reason why the doctrines, propounded by the
latter, should be any more accepted as facts, than those espoused by
the former.
Let us see how the case stands. Suppose a number of wonderful
tricks are exhibited ; the more intelligent of the spectators commence
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 121
evolving hypotheses to explain how these are performed ; night after
night the performances, though often a good deal varied in details,
are repeated. The most intelligent of the spectators also return,
night after night, more and more intent on discovering the rationale
of the wonders they witness. They gradually work out, what appears
to be, a fairly consistent theory of all that so astonishes them, and
getting into conversation with some of the performers find that
these, to a great extent confirm their conclusions. Thereupon they
feel convinced that their views are correct, and accept their theories
as facts. But for all that they are still before the footlights ; they
have never been behind the curtain ; they have never actually seen
how the surprising results they witness are really brought about, and
these so-called facts of theirs are still merely theories.
But now some of the spectators get acquainted with people,
who do habitually go behind the scenes, who have examined the
whole apparatus, who can make the performers play whatsoever
tricks they like, and who can with their apparatus perform precisely
the same (and other even more) astonishing feats, and these men tell
the ingenious spectators that their theories are quite wrong, and that
the facts of the cases are so and so.
Now, surely our Brother will admit, that it is neither begging the
question, nor presumption on the part of those who have the entree
behind the scenes, but the simple truth, when they assert that their
knowledge represents facts, while the conclusions of the ordinary
spectators are only theories.
Such precisely are the relative positions of the Spiritualists and
the Occultists ; meaning, of course, by these latter, not the humble
lay disciples, who indite these papers, but their pastors, masters
and living spiritual guides,
" The Brothers."
" But how am I to know
"
(Mr. Terry may enquire)
"
that these
Brothers of yours can really go behind the scenes ? You say so,
but what proof is there of this ?
"
Now, in the first place, it is a fact, and this every one may prove
for himself, that each and all who will lead the Life (as indicated at
pp. 22 et seq., of Hints on Esoteric Theosophy, No. 1, second edition)
can satisfy themselves that the Brothers really can do this, and thus
become entirely independent alike of our, and all other persons',
testimony.
But, in the second place, we can offer our correspondent some
very definite, even though not absolutely conclusive, evidence on
this subject. Will he read attentively all the facts connected with the
transmission, by occult means, of certain letters from the steam
ship Vega (at a time when she was at sea, and some 500 miles
distant from land) to Bombay and Calcutta ? He will find most of
the circumstances recorded in the eighth and ninth numbers of
122 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Psychic Notes, and again in the last chapter of the second edition of
Mr. Sinnett's Occult World, but the most complete account is em
bodied in the Postscript to the second edition of the Hints on
Esoteric Theosophy, No. I.
Reading this he will see that as soon as we suggested to the
Brothers, that it might be useful for them to make themselves
known to Mr. Eglinton's controls, and so convince him of their
existence, they did so, and while Mr. Eglinton himself was still
utterly incredulous of there being any Brothers, his controls,
speaking in the direct voice, while he was in trance, — acknowledged the
Brothers, spoke of one of them by a name unknown to Mr. Eglinton,
and announced their intention of performing some phenomenon under
their guidance. He will see further that one of them visited Mr.
Eglinton when the vessel in which he had left India was at sea, and
fully convinced him of the existence of the Brothers and of their
powers.
Now, though we do not say that these incidents absolutely prove
that the Brothers can go behind the scenes, we would ask Mr. Terry
whether it does not look very like it.
The fact is, that, as we know, the Brothers possess the power of
controlling absolutely all the elementals and elementaries to whom
(with some exceptions) are due the objective phenomena (not the
work, unconscious or conscious, of the medium himself) of the
seance-room. And it is the possession and exhibition of this power
which makes us consider their assertion that they have been behind
the scenes and do know all about it, proved, and that induces us
to accept their statements of what takes place, and is done, as
facts.
If as yet our correspondent does not possess the same good
grounds for confidence as ourselves (though these will all come if he
only truly works for them) we can only say that, perhaps, before long
an even stronger proof may be given to our Spiritualistic friends, and,
in the meantime, we would ask our Brother to consider whether the
circumstances are not such as to lead distinctly to the inference that
the Brothers know more of the so-called spirits, and can more
efficiently deal with them, than any Spiritualist or medium.
But now we must let Mr. Terry speak for himself :
i. I have perused with interest the able article, in reply to my second
letter, published in The Theosophist for March last, and although I have
weighed the theories there presented as dispassionately as possible, I must
confess they have brought me very little nearer to an acceptance of the
"
occult
" in preference to the
"
spiritual
"
philosophy. This may not be
the case with others who read them, but with me the evidences, in support
of my present position, are so diverse and manifold that the explanations
afforded, if they shook my faith in, or even destroyed, the foundation of
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 123
the few instances previously presented, still leave an unbroken link of
stubborn facts confronting me, behind which, I cannot go.
2. But you will demur to the word facts and substitute
"
illusory
effects." Yet how are we, ordinary mortals, to discriminate between the
real and the unreal ? For what purpose are our reasoning faculties given
to us, but to get knowledge by their exercise and evolve wisdom there
from ? The man who views all phenomena through the physical senses
and realizes only what they cognize limits his knowledge to purely ter
restrial things, but the philosophical Spiritualist has a wider range of
observation, and by the aid of his own spiritual perceptions, or those of
others more lucid than himself, opens up a broad field of phenomena,
unrecognized by the physical scientist. He realizes, moreover, the
supremacy of spirit and views (as far as his material environments will
admit) all things from their spiritual aspect. Yet withal, reason is the
touchstone by which his experiences must be tested. He has no sound
basis outside of it, whilst in the material body.
3. I do not ignore intuition. Great truths dawn upon the mental
perception through this channel, but they rarely conflict with the opera
tion of the individual reason. I doubt not but that, in the spiritual state,
the latter will be superseded by the former, but, in this material sphere,
reason is the primary and legitimate avenue for the absorption of
knowledge.
4. You say
"
the spirit of man which comes into direct and conscious
relations with the world of spirits acquires the real knowledge." This I
admit, and it is by this means much of my knowledge has reached me.
I have by magnetic action liberated the spirits of men and women, placed
them en rapport with the world of spirit, compared their descriptions of
spiritual things and found (save in details) a general harmony of results,
each and all of them describing worlds or spheres more beautiful than
this, peopled by forms in human shape exhibiting a higher average
intelligence and greater refinement than pertains to our physical life here,
and all professing to be men and women, who had been denizens of this
world, rehabilitated in forms adapted to their more refined condition of
existence. Some of these intelligences in conversation with my subjects
have conveyed the most beautiful sentiments displaying the highest
conceivable morality and inculcating harmonial principles intuitionally
acceptable.
5. It may be well here to allude to the explanation, or partial explana
tion, by analogy of incidents in my experience given in the last Fragments
of Occult Truth, but the analogy is not complete, as in the one instance
there is no psychometrical basis, and in the other there is. I am aware
how difficult it is to distinguish psychometry from clairvoyance, but with
care and a lucid instrument it is practicable. I am also aware of the
difficulty, and, perhaps, impossibility, of demonstrating to others the
distinct identity and objective existence of what I believe to be my spirit-
guide, but it is much more conceivable to me, that this intelligence which
almost daily gives some evidence of its independence from my mind, often
opposing my preconceptions in a most decided manner, is what it pro
fesses to be, than that it is one part of myself misleading the other. It
would require strong evidence to convince me (or this portion of me that
124 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
now expresses itself) that I have two intelligent consciousnesses so
distinct from each other as not to know their relationship.
6. I will, however, give one or two more instances of apparent spirit
communion from very many that I could call to mind. Nineteen years
ago, during my early investigations of the subject, I was sitting with an
intelligent, but, not highly educated, gentleman newer to the subject
than myself when his hand was controlled by some invisible force to
write in rather a laboured manner something encouraging to our efforts.
Whilst conversing about this, his hand rose suddenly from the table,
whirled round with great velocity, and, descending upon some paper,
wrote in a bold, free hand totally different from his own, and resembling
none he knew of :
"
You now see we have full command over your hand,
let us have as full command over your heart, and you will be nearer
God." None could be more astonished at this unexpected phenomena
than the writer himself, and, when, on being interrogated, the intelligence
professed to be one of a band of spirits interested in the moral and spiritual
progress of humanity, probabilities all pointed to the truth of the asser
tion. About nine months' intercourse with this band tended to confirm
in every respect what had been stated. Questions were satisfactorily
answered, difficulties solved, moral and philosophical teachings were
volunteered ; all in harmony with the idea and commendable to our
reason, though often new to our perceptions. Is this the ordinary work
of astral tramps or
"
Kama Rupas ?
" I have recently gone over the
original MS. and find it all consistent. Twenty years' experience, with
the mental and spiritual development it has brought, fail to exhibit any
defects in it.
7. Again, nearly three years since, a very dear friend passed out of
mortal existence. For years before her death the spiritual part of her
nature largely predominated over the animal, and, according to the occult
theory, the spiritual Ego would pass into a world of effects, whence there
is no return to this world. Yet a few days after her departure a lady
(who had but a slight acquaintance with her in the body) came to me
and informed me that my friend had appeared to her (whilst in an ap
parently normal state) as a glorified human form, and given a message
for me which had been literally recorded as given. The tone, words and
sentiment of this message were eminently characteristic of her, and it
conveyed a hidden meaning readily understood by me, but which would
be unintelligible to others. Some months after, the same form appeared
to another seeress who had not known the deceased in the body, and by
symbols recalled to my mind some touching incidents of the past. A
year later, whilst visiting in the country, I magnetized a sensitive to aid
her development. This lady had never known my friend, and in her own
person bore not the slightest resemblance to her. Having induced the
magnetic sleep, I sat quietly by, not expecting any phenomenal result,
but, on looking at her, a short time after, I observed, first a change of
complexion from dark to fair, next a gradual alteration of the contour of
the face, the nose became more aquiline, the lips thin, the face longer,
and the expression more refined, until in about ten minutes the trans
formation was complete ; and, with the exception of the colour of the
hair which remained unchanged, there was before me with all minutiae
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH
the face of my deceased friend. That this was no hallucination is shown
by the fact of there being another witness of the phenomenon, who was
as fully conscious of the change as myself, though unable to recognize my
friend, not having known her in the body. This was repeated subse
quently and verified by three witnesses, one of whom, being called and
asked if she recognized the face, immediately gave the name of my friend.
Such incidents as these seem to me to conflict with the occult theory,
and must have weight against
it,
unless
it
can be philosophically shown
to cover them.
8.
The Occultists assume their position to be irrefragable
;
they are
not singular in this, though more philosophical in their arguments than
many who have preceded them, but in these times men want evidence
which the senses given them can grasp. It
is
not reasonable on the part
of those who doubt what they assert, to demand
a
demonstration as
objectors to any theory often do, but
it
is
reasonable for the truth-seeker
to say
"
show me how
I
can prove what you affirm," and to expect a
practicable road to be pointed out to him. If the proof can only be
obtained by
a
practical renunciation of the world,
a
severance of all
human ties, affections and responsibilities, of what use
is
it
to humanity
?
Only one in
a
million may avail themselves of
it,
and how many of the
remaining 999,999 would have faith in his testimony
?
9.
You say that
" the sense of individuality in spirit cannot exist
without combination with matter." This seems highly probable, though
not demonstrable, and,
I
assume, that the bodies of these spiritual forms
seen by seers and clairvoyants are material, though much more refined
than the matter we are clothed in. Is not the atmosphere of our world
full of material particles invisible to our physical sense
?
10. Your assertion, that from Socrates to the present day
"
no un
initiated seer ever saw quite correctly," can hardly be disputed, but the
question
is,
does the initialed seer do so
?
How
is
it
possible for him to
be free from bias
?
Are not the present beliefs or formulae of occultism
the basis on which he starts
?
Does not the novice have them presented
to him as fads at the commencement of his initiation, and do not all
experiences of the past and present prove to us that, except in absolute
physical facts, the basic bias gives
a
colouring to all the knowledge we
accumulate
?
11. You misinterpret my last letter when you charge me with saying
"
J
know
I
am right,"
I
simply demurred to your taking that position in
a
former article, asserting merely that, as our knowledge
is
based upon
experience, and as my experiences all tend to the confirmation of my
theory, as yours do to the opposite,
/
might as reasonably say
I
know.
Your experiences may transcend mine in many directions, but whilst the
ground
I
stand on has all the appearance of solidity and feels firm under
my feet,
it
requires more than assertion to convince me that
it
is
a
quick
sand. With the tides of error drifting all around,
I
must be satisfied of
a
better foot-hold ere
I
abandon my present one.
12. There
is
one Spiritualist, at least, who will gladly accept the aid
of the
" occult sages of the East
" to obtain
a
better knowledge of the
after-state, but as
I
have never in the past accepted the dictum of either
man or spirit by faith alone, neither can
I
in the future (unless by some
126 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
unlooked-for change in my nature) accept as truth anything contrary to
my own experiences until it commends itself to my reason and intuition.
Fraternally yours,
W. H. Terry.
Now, to the first paragraph of Mr. Terry's letter no reply is called
for. To the second it will be sufficient to say that we doubt, if we
should ever find occasion to call in question any of our correspondent's
facts ; we believe that we should be able unhesitatingly to accept
them all, for he is clearly a reliable observer ; it would only be with
the conclusions he forms, based on those facts, that we should be
compelled to differ.
The third paragraph, again, is in perfect harmony with our own
views.
The fourth paragraph must be more particularly noticed. It will
be borne in mind that we have never denied that communication in
a certain sense can be established between men and real spirits of
deceased persons. What we have maintained is that, except in
certain cases, of which hereafter, only shells, not true spirits, can
appear or operate in the siance-room.
We said of the spirit in our first
'
Fragment
'
: "It can be visited
in spirit by men, it cannot descend into our grosser atmosphere and
reach us. It attracts, it cannot be attracted."
Nor have we ever disputed that there was a state (out of which
the Spiritualist's conceptions of the Summer Land have no doubt
arisen) in which the spirits of those who have passed away, receive
the reward of their deserts. To this state, known to Tibetan Occultists
as the Devachan, we specially alluded in that first paper, when we
said
" nor during the temporary period of its enjoyment in its newly-
evolved Ego-hood of the fruits of its good deeds, etc."
Therefore, we are far from desiring to contest our correspondent's
assertion, that by magnetic action he has succeeded in placing some
of the incorporeal principles of certain sensitives en rapport
(if
not,
as he says, with the world of spirit —
a
very large world indeed —at any
rate) with certain spiritual entities.
It
is
quite certain that in the case of pure sensitives, this can be
accomplished, but what .we contend
is
that the information thus
obtained will never be reliable. For this there are several reasons.
In the first place the principles that cognize in such
a
case are differ
ent from those that give outward expression to the matters cognized,
and in the case of no untrained seer can the transfer of the impressions
from the spiritual faculties which record, to the more physical
faculties which publish, be perfectly effected. Even supposing
both sensitive and her magnetizer to be absolutely free from all
preconceived ideas, about, or expectations in regard to the subjects
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 127
investigated, still in the mere transfer of the observations from the
one to the other class of faculties, mistakes and misconceptions must
occur.
But, further, it is not too much to say that it is quite impossible
for the spiritual faculties of any untrained seer even to record
correctly in the first instance. Even our physical powers of observa
tion require careful training before they will serve us faithfully. See
how utterly unable young children are, as a rule, to judge distances,
etc., and just as the physical faculties are untrained in the child,
so are the spiritual facilities untrained in the magnetic sensitive.
No doubt, in the course of years, if their health and circumstances
permit their constantly exploring the unseen world, even such
untrained sensitives may acquire for themselves a certain amount
of experience and training, and become capable of comparatively
accurate observation ; but few and far between have such sensitives
been, and, even the very best, have fallen far short of accuracy.
So that under the most exceptionally favourable conditions, you have
first an imperfect record ; and, second, a more or less erroneous
presentation of that imperfect record.
But in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, either or both sensitive
and magnetizer have well-defined preconceptions of what they think
ought to be the case, and then, however honest and conscientious both
may be, these preconceptions will more or less colour the evidence
given. Indeed, so certainly is this the case that, broadly speaking,
there is twice the probability of error in the case of a magnetized
sensitive, to what there is in the case of a seer, who without the inter
vention of a magnetizer can by hypnotism (of one kind or another)
unaided, place himself en rapport with spiritual entities. Thus a
Swedenborg would be much less likely to err, than the best sensitive
requiring the intervention of a magnetizer to awaken her super-
sensuous faculties.
But there is yet another source of error. Even the best and purest
sensitive can at most only be placed at any time en rapport with a
particular spiritual entity, and can only know, see and feel, what
that particular entity knows, sees and feels. Now no spiritual
entity in Devachan, or hybernating prior to passing out of this
earth's attraction (and it is, broadly speaking, only with such
that a sensitive can be placed en rapport) is in a position to
generalize. It lives in a paradise or dream of its own creating,
and it is utterly unable to give any idea of how it is faring with
others. Each individual spirit in Devachan dreams its own dream,
lives in its own Summer Land (but it is a state, not a land),
surrounded by all the people and things it loves and longs for.
But these are ideal, and the very people by whom it believes itself
surrounded may be each dreaming his own dream, in his own ideal
128 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
paradise ; or some of them may be perhaps really still on earth, or
even passing through the remorseless wheels of annihilation. And
through the veils that curtain in each spirit's dream of felicity, there
is no peeping down to earth, a glimpse of which would necessarily
mingle some bitterness with the cup of happiness, nor is there any
conscious communication with the flying souls that come, as it were,
to learn where the spirits are, what they are doing, and what they
think, feel and see.
What, then, is being en rapport? It is simply an identity of
molecular vibration between the astral part of the incarnated
sensitive and the astral part of the disincarnate personality. The spirit
of the sensitive gets
"
odylized," so to speak, by the Aura of the
spirit whether this be hybernating in the earthly region, or dreaming
in the Devachan ; identity of molecular vibration is established, and
for a brief space the sensitive becomes the departed personality, and
writes in its handwriting, uses its language and thinks its thoughts.
At such times sensitives may believe that those with whom they are
for the moment en rapport descend to earth and communicate with
them, whereas, in reality, it is merely their own spirits which being
correctly attuned to those others are, for the time, blended with
them.
Many of the subjective spiritual communications are genuine ;
the majority where the sensitive is pure-minded ; but (i) they only
reflect in each case the ideas of a single spirit, unable to see beyond
the limits of its own mental chrysalis or ideal paradise ; (2) it is im
possible for the uninitiated sensitive to observe and record altogether
correctly what it does see and hear during its amalgamation ; (3) it
is equally impossible for the sensitive to transfer intact the impres
sions recorded by the supersensuous faculties, to the senses through
which alone they can be communicated to the world ; and (4) such
communications will be still further vitiated by any pre-existing
conceptions or beliefs inhering in the minds of either sensitive
or magnetizer, or both.
But Mr. Terry says that, having compared the descriptions of
things spiritual given to him by different sensitives when in trance,
he found a general harmony
" each and all describing worlds or
spheres more beautiful than this, peopled by forms in human shape,
exhibiting a higher average intelligence, etc., etc." But what else
could he expect, he a pure-minded, educated European of the
present day, dealing also with pure, more or less educated sensitives ?
If he had tried a native Australian woman sensitive, and had
studiously kept his own mind passive, he would have heard a very
different story. Nay, though a certain skeleton of truth (but
partial truth) runs through all genuine communications, he will
find the widest discrepancies in details between the so-called facts
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 129
elicited by himself and those elicited by equally good men, with
equally pure mediums in France,1 Germany and America.
It is unnecessary, however, now to press this point further ; all we
desire for the moment to make clear is that while we in no way
dispute the genuineness of the class of communications to which
our correspondent refers, we yet, for the above reasons, know them
to be necessarily unreliable, necessarily more or less incorrect and
inaccurate.
And now turning to para, fifth, we would remark that it may
possibly be that there is really a distinct spiritual entity impressing
our correspondent's mind. In other words, there may, for all we
know, be some spirit, with whom his spiritual nature becomes
habitually for the time, thoroughly harmonized, and whose thoughts,
language, etc., become his for the time, the result being that this
spirit seems to communicate with him. All we said before was that
a similar explanation to that we had offered of the facts of a certain
case would in all probability meet Mr. Terry's case. But if he feels
confident that this explanation does not fit his case, then it is
possible (though by no means probable) that he habitually passes
into a state of rapport with a genuine spirit, and, for the time, is
assimilated therewith, thinking (to a great extent, if not entirely)
the thoughts that spirit would think, writing in its handwriting, etc.
But even so Mr. Terry must not fancy that that spirit is consciously
communicating with him, or knows in any way, anything of him, or
any other person or thing on earth. It is simply that the rapport
established, he, Mr. Terry, becomes for the nonce assimilated with
that other personality, and thinks, speaks and writes as it would
have done on earth.
As for the figure of the fine, intelligent and benevolent-looking
man, seen repeatedly by the seers and seeresses, this may well be a
real astral picture of the earth-life form of that very spirit, drawn
into the aura of our correspondent by the synchronism of his and that
spirit's nature.
Many other explanations are possible ; the variety of the causes of
phenomena is great, and one need be an adept, and actually look into
and examine what transpires in order to be able to explain in each
case, what really underlies it ; but this much is certain, viz., that
no good benevolent person, who passed away upwards of a century
ago, can possibly be visiting here on earth, and advising and com
forting our correspondent. The molecules of his astral nature may
from time to time vibrate in perfect unison with those of some
spirit of such a person, now in Devachan, and the result may be that
1 Allan Kardec is probably the one untrained experimenter, who has got nearest
the truth, and this because he generalized from such a vast mass of communications
by very carefully picked sensitives and did thus eUminate a vast amount of error.
I
130 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
he appears to be in communication with that spirit, and to be
advised, etc., by him, and clairvoyants may see in the astral light
a picture of the earth-life form of that spirit, but, so far as we have
yet been instructed, this is the nearest approach to what our corre
spondent supposes, that is possible.
No doubt had our Brother's guide not departed from this earth
so very long ago, another explanation, to which we will refer later,
more in consonance with his view would have been possible, though
extremely improbable.
Taking next his sixth para., the experience therein detailed seems
sufficiently explained on either of two hypotheses. First, despite
their unobjectionable character, these teachings may have come from
mere reliquice of men or personalities, not sufficiently spiritual for
further progress. In our first " Fragment
" we distinctly said
"
All
elementaries are by no means actively wicked all round . . . when,
speaking through a still pure medium, the better and less degraded
side of their nature comes out, and it is quite possible for elemen
taries to have a perfect intellectual knowledge and appreciation
of virtue and purity and enlightened conceptions of truth, and yet
be innately vicious in their tendencies.
It is perfectly possible, that the admirable teachings referred to
by Mr. Terry may have come from a high class, though still lost
personality, too intellectual to show in its true colours before him
and his friend, and yet capable of playing a very different part in a
less pure circle.
But it is far more likely that the medium's spirit really became
en rapport with some spiritual entity in Devachan, the thoughts,
knowledge and sentiments of which formed the substance, while the
medium's own personality and pre-existing ideas more or less
governed the form of the communication. We attach no special
importance to the particular form of words in which the first message
is said to have been given. This may perfectly well have been the
medium's share of the communication, when for the moment
he identified his spiritual nature with that of the spiritual
entity.
Here, again, there is another possible, but not at all probable,
explanation to which we shall refer later.
The experience recorded in para, seven is a most interesting one,
and, as stated, somewhat difficult to explain with confidence. If we
had something more than the very slight sketch afforded, we should
find less difficulty.
The first appearance might possibly be thus explained ; for a very
short period after death, while the incorporeal principles remain
within the sphere of our earth's attraction, it is possible for the spirit,
under peculiar and favourable conditions, to appear,
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 131
But, as a broad rule, such appearances only take place within a few
minutes after, or shortly before, the physical death. Of course, we
mean the real death ; the last portion of the frame that dies is the
brain —which often is still alive and thronged with images, long after,
or, at any rate, for many hours and days after life has been pro
nounced by the spectators to be extinct. It is true that the period
intervening between death and the entry into the gestation state,
varies in the case of persons dying a natural death from a few hours to
a few years, but it is quite abnormal for the spirit to appear during
this period, except within a very short period after death. Putting
aside the case of adepts and those trained by them to that end, the
Ego within a few moments after death sinks into a state of uncon
sciousness, from which it does not recover until the struggle between
the higher and lower duads has been fought out, and there remains
inside the sphere of the earth's attraction, (the Region of Desire),
only the shell, either, in the rarer case of personalities doomed to
annihilation, a two-and-a-half principle-shell, or in the case in which
the higher principles having triumphed, they have passed on taking
with them the better portions of the fifth principle, also a one-and-a-
half principle-shell soon to disintegrate.
It seems, therefore, extremely doubtful whether even the first
appearance can be explained as a bona fide one, consciously made by
the spirit of the deceased. It is possible, for the true death, the
death of the brain, is sometimes delayed long after the death of the
rest of the body, the apparent death —and, though the first appear
ance took place
"
a few days after
"
apparent death, it may really
have only occurred at the moment of true death. But this is less
probable than that, despite the facts that would lead to a contrary
conclusion, even this first was really an unconscious appearance.
The spirit, sunk in its post mortem trance, (of course, for all its
comparative etheriality and non-corporeality, a space-occupying
and material entity) is borne about by magnetic currents swayed
here and there like dead leaves whirling in the bosom of a stream.
Thus carried, it may pass within the range of vision of some seer,
or its reflection in the astral light may be caught by the inner eye
of a clairvoyant. The spirit itself will have no more consciousness
of such an appearance than a person passing through a room in
which there happens, unknown to him, to be a mirror, is of having
cast a reflection therein. Usually the position and aspect of the
forms indicate unmistakably the unconsciousness of the spirit —
but this is not invariable —the mental activity of the spirit may
revive in a succession of dreams, restoring a subjective consciousness,
while objective unconsciousness still prevails, and in such cases the
form may assume a conscious and animated, or even transfigured,
appearance —all depends on the character and intensity of the dreams,
132 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
and these again depend upon the degree of the spirituality and
purity of the deceased.
It is not at all necessary (nor, indeed, is it possible under our
present hypothesis) that any real conscious communication should
have passed between the dormant spirit and the seeress. It was all
sufficient for the latter to have come thus in direct rapport with the
spirit or its astral image, to think precisely what the spirit, if still
conscious and in earth-life, would have thought. This presents
absolutely no difficulty.
Possibly the second appearance may be similarly explained. But
here the question arises. When this second appearance took place,
was the seeress under our correspondent's magnetism ? If so, there
was probably no appearance at all. The magnetizer tenderly
attached to the deceased, by the exertion of his magnetic power
unconsciously placed the seeress en rapport with the spirit of the
deceased, with which for the time her spirit was more or less perfectly
identified, leading to an idea of seeing her (as she was wont to appear
when on earth), and receiving from her messages or indications, of
which the seeress really became cognizant, when the two spirits
were for the moment blended.
The transfigurations are less doubtful in character, and there are
three ways of explaining them :
1. The mesmeric action of our correspondent placed the sensitive's
spirit en rapport with that of his dearly-loved deceased friend. Then
when for the time the identity of the two was established, the
nature of the deceased taken on by the sensitive, being much more
spiritual and powerful than her own, and her physical constitution
being of such a nature as to admit such changes, her body began at
once to exhibit an analogous change corresponding to the change
undergone by her spiritual nature in consequence of the amalgama
tion.
2. The transfiguration may have been due to the intensity and
clearness of the deceased friend's face in Mr. Terry's thought. That
face being so strongly impressed on his memory, it is but natural
that the latter, owing to its intensified activity during such seances,
should be throwing off an unusual amount of energy and solidifying,
so to say, the famihar image, on the etheric waves of his aura. Thus,
unknown to himself, Mr. Terry may have aroused it up into sym
pathetic action, which, transforming the image from a subjective into
an objective picture, finally caused it to move on, guided by the cur
rent of attraction, until it settled upon, and so was found reflected
on the medium's face. The images we find in the endless galleries
of space, nailed on to the indestructible walls of Akdia, are but
lifeless and empty masks after all, the pictorial record of our thoughts,
words and deeds. In Mr. Terry's case, the invisible Reality in the
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 133
magnetizer's aura threw an objective adumbration on the plastic
features of his sensitive, and —the phenomenon was produced.
3. Thought, Memory and Will are the energies of the brain, and,
like all other forces of nature —to use the language of modern science
—have two general forms : the potential and the kinetic form of
energy. Potential thought clairvoyantly discerns and chooses its
subject in the astral light, —the Will becomes the motor power that
causes it to move, that directs and guides it whithersoever it likes . . .
and, it is thus that the adept produces his occult phenomena, whether
of a physical or a spiritual character. But the latter can also occur
without any intervention of an intelligent will. The passive con
dition of the medium, leaves him
(a)
an easy prey to the pranks of
the elementaries, as well as to those semi-intelligent beings ever
basking and masquerading in the sidereal light
;
and
(b)
such
a
phenomenon may as easily occur of itself, simply owing to the sur
rounding and favourable conditions. The sidereal image of
a
person
we think of, will remain pale and quiescent in its indelible impression
on the ether, until its atoms are propelled into action by the strong
magnetic attraction which emanates from the molecular tissues of
the medium, saturated as they are with the mesmerizer's thought
full of the image. Hence —the phenomenon of Transfiguration.
These transfigurations are rare
;
but we have yet known of
a
good
many instances, and some very remarkable ones will be found
recorded in Colonel Olcott's work entitled People from the Other
World.
The above probably explains all the features of this case
;
but to
enable us to assert positively in any case that the occurrence was
brought about in this or that way,
it
is
essential that we should be
acquainted with every single detail. So long as we only have the
barest outlines to deal with all we can pretend to offer are more or
less probable solutions.
Our correspondent tells us in his first para, that even
if
we explain
one or two cases, he still finds an unbroken line of stubborn facts
opposing our explanations behind which he
is
unable to penetrate.
We can only promise that
if
he will furnish us with accurate detail
of all cases within his personal knowledge, which, in his opinion, are
not explicable by the Occult Doctrines, we will show him that they
are so explicable, or abandon the field.
But we must premise two conditions. First, we will only accept
cases of which he has
a
complete personal knowledge —we will not
accept cases picked up out of books and papers. He
is
a
reliable,
philosophical observer, from whom we are sure to get facts carefully
observed and accurately recorded. With these we can have no
difficulty in dealing. But as for cases recorded here, there and
everywhere, many are, to our knowledge, pure inventions, while
134 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
many more, although recorded in good faith, have been so trans
mogrified in the processes of observation and record, that it would
be hopeless to discuss them.
Secondly, he must not be surprised,
if,
in the course of our explana
tions, all kinds of new facts not hitherto touched on are brought to
notice. The subject
is
a vast one. There are wheels within wheels —
laws within laws, exceptions to all these. Purposely hitherto we
have only endeavoured to convey
a
general conception of the more
important features of the Truth. If exact accuracy of detail
is
required, every one of our general laws will require certain provisos
and riders. To detail only what we know in regard to these spiritual
phenomena would occupy several complete numbers of The Theoso-
phist, and
if
our explanation had to include the whole system of
elementals (future men during
a
coming cycle) and other obscure
powers and forces, which cannot even be mentioned, several octavo
volumes would be needed to contain it.
In the first part of our correspondent's eighth para, we quite
concur, but when he goes on to say
"
if
the proof can only be obtained
by
a
practical renunciation of the world,
a
severance of all human
ties, affections and responsibilities, of what use
is
it
to humanity
?
Only one in
a
million may avail themselves of it, and how many of
the remaining 999,999 would have faith in his testimony," —we are
compelled to point out that he
is
in error in his premises, and that
his conclusions, even were these premises correct, are untenable.
For even admit that only one in
a
million would consent to avail
themselves of the opportunity afforded for obtaining proof, would
this be any reason for the remaining 999,999 refusing to accept their
evidence
?
Is this so in practice
?
Certainly not
!
At the present
time not more than one in
a
million,
(if
so many) are willing to avail
themselves of the opportunity of obtaining for themselves proof
of the facts of astronomy. Yet the remainder accept these facts,
perfectly satisfied with the knowledge that any one who chooses
to go through the necessary training and study can acquire that
proof, and that all who have gone through that training, etc., are
agreed as to the sufficiency of the proof.
Astronomy
is
a
science with the name and general bearing of which
all fairly educated men are familiar. Occultism
is
a
science which
has hitherto been veiled in the most profound secrecy and of which,
so far, none but Occultists have possessed any knowledge. But once
let mankind be familiarized with the idea
;
let
it
become known that
anyone who chooses to make the necessary sacrifices can obtain the
proofs, and that those who have obtained the proofs consider these
conclusive, and the mass of mankind will be quite content to accept
the facts, even on the testimony of the one per million, who does
undertake the verification of the assertions of his predecessors.
But our correspondent's assumptions are erroneous
;
a
practical
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 135
renunciation of the world in the sense in which the apostle exhorted
all Christians to be in the world but not of the world, is doubtless
essential, but it is by no means requisite to sever all human ties and
affections, nor can it ever be permitted, much less required, to abjure
human responsibilities. These latter may change in character, and
may—indeed must —with increased knowledge and power, assume
a wider reach, and the affections must broaden and become more
cosmopolitan, but it is self-abnegation {not selfishness) , and a devotion
to the welfare of others, that smooths the path to adeptship.
Replying to the ninth para, we may say that not only our atmo
sphere, but the entire universe, is pervaded by substance incognizable
alike by our physical and spiritual senses, and again by forms of
matter normally incognizable by our physical senses, but more or
less cognizable by spiritual senses of different degrees of development.
As regards the freedom from error claimed for the teachings of
occultism, referred to in para, tenth, Mr. Terry, we venture to submit,
mistakes the position. It is needless to point out to him the differ
ence between empiricism and science, and the uninitiated are empiri
cists ; the occultists, scientists. This will be obvious at once when
it is borne in mind, that for thousands of years, hundreds of initiates
have been exploring the unseen world. That the results of their
explorations have been recorded and collected, and discrepancies
eliminated by fresh verifications. That the facts ascertained have
been generalized and the laws governing them deduced therefrom,
and the corrections of these deductions verified by experiment.
Occultism, is therefore, in every sense of the word an exact science,
while the teachings of the very ablest untrained seer who has worked
single-handed can only be empiric.
When in our first article we said we know, (an expression to which
our Brother, perhaps rightly, takes objection in his fourth para.) we
only said this in the sense, that talking to people ignorant of mathe
matics, we should say that we know that the curve described by the
moon in space is a form of epicycloid represented by such and such
an equation. Not meaning thereby that we had ourselves investi
gated this somewhat abstruse problem, but that we were aware of
the method by which this was solved and knew that numerous
competent mathematicians had so solved it, and had all arrived at
the same solution. Surely those ignorant alike of mathematics and
of the work of mathematicians, could by no means as reasonably
say in reply, that they knew that the orbit of the moon was something
wholly different. It is not our experiences (though these collectively
are considerable) on which we rely, as our correspondent seems to
fancy. For all we know his experiences may transcend ours, and, be
this as it may, we should certainly never have presumed to traverse,
authoritatively, his views on the strength of our own experiences or
136 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
knowledge. What we rely on are the generalized results of the
experiences during a vast period of time of a large body of trained
Psychists, who have ever made the attainment of truth, in matters
spiritual, the foremost object of their desire, and the promotion
(though in secret) of the welfare of mankind, their primary duty.
With Mr. Terry's last para, we should be the last to quarrel. It
is endited in the true spirit of the philosopher, and one of the first
warnings that the neophyte in occultism receives is thenceforth to
believe nothing, the truth, rationality or probability, of which
cannot be established to his satisfaction.
And now, having attempted to answer para, by para, every portion
of our esteemed correspondent's kind favour (that seemed to require
a reply), we think it might be well to develop a little further one
doctrine that we broached in our first paper, and explain more in
detail why we are so strongly opposed to habitual mediumism.
Broadly speaking, the objective phenomena of Spiritualists (of
subjective communications we have already spoken) are the work of,
or, at any rate, result from, the activities of intervention of (i)
elementals, half intelligent natural forces, entities, which is a
far distant cycle, after passing through all the lower objective
Kingdoms will ultimately be born as men ; (2) elementaries
or shells. These shells are of two kinds—first, those belonging to
men whose sixth and seventh principles having attracted to them
selves the quintessence, as it were, of the fifth also, have moved on
to fresh developments. These shells consist of the fourth, and only
a portion of the fifth principles. Half or more of the personal
memory is gone, and the more animal or material instincts only
survive. This relic, this dross left behind in the crucible, when the
refined gold was taken, is commonly the "angel guide" of the
average medium. Such entities, of course, only survive for a time ;
gradually all consciousness departs and they disintegrate. Only
highly mediumistic natures attract these, and only certain of these.
The purer the personality, the less their vitality ; the shorter their
period of survival and the less the chance of their contributing to
mediumistic displays. The more full of blemishes, the more dis
figured by sins and animal desires the personality ; the greater the
vitality of its reliquiae, the longer their survival, the greater the
chance of their finding their way into the siance-room. The man, as
a whole, as the world goes, may have been a good man, good may have
actively predominated in him, and yet the worse portions of his
nature, his lower and more animal instincts standing now alone and
unneutralized by all the better portions of his character, may be
evil enough.
It is impossible that any real good can come of intercourse with
even this class of shell ; it will not be actively wicked, it is too
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 137
imperfect and weak for that, but yet its influence in the long run
cannot be elevating. But, besides this, it is wrong to encourage such
shells into activity or to convey to them a fresh impulse such as
they often obtain through mediums, since a strong sympathy
continues to subsist between the departed personality and its
reliquiae, and any excitement of these latter, any galvanization of
them with a fictitious renewed life, such as results from mediums
dealing with them, distinctly disturbs the gestation of the personality,
hinders the evolution of its new Egohood, and delays, therefore, its
entry into the state of felicity (Devachan), in which, in its new
Egohood, it reaps the fruits of its good deeds, prior to re-incarnation
and re-birth here, if it has not completed its appointed tale of earth-
lives, or in the next superior planet.
But the other kind of elementary is far more dangerous as a rule
to deal with. In this case the man has been weighed in the balance
and found wanting—his personality has to be blotted out —the fourth
and fifth principles are intact ; and, more than this, the fifth will
have assimilated all that there may be left of personal recollection
and perceptions of its personal individuality in the sixth. This
second class of shell is in every way more enduring, more active,
and in the majority of cases, distinctly wicked. No doubt it can
suffer no injury from its intercourse with men, but these latter must
inevitably deteriorate in consequence of association with shells of
this class. Fortunately these are not, comparatively speaking,
very numerous ; of course, absolutely, there have been millions of
millions of such, but, to the credit of human nature be it said, that
the personalities that have to be absolutely blotted out form but a
fractional percentage of the whole.
Moreover, shells of this nature do not remain for any great length
of time in the atmosphere of this earth, but like straws floating near
a whirlpool get caught and dragged down in that terrible Maelstrom,
which hurries off the failures towards disintegration, in other words
to the planet of matter and death —the mental as well as the physical
satellite of our earth.
As for the elementals, rudimentary men no doubt, but more
embryotic even than the spirit that sleeps in the mineral, these,
though capable of becoming powerful forces in association with
shells, under the spells of sorcerers and under the guidance of adepts,
are, as a rule, irresponsible, purblind, neutral entities, taking
character and colour moral and mental from the active and more
developed spiritual entity with or under whose control they work ;
but even these, though themselves incapable of being injured, may
become very dangerous to mediums with any inherent evil tendencies.
Here then in elementals and elementaries are to be found the
majority, probably, of the performers of the physical phenomena of
138 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Spiritualists. Association with no one of these three classes, can
possibly benefit mankind as a whole. The variety of natures is so
infinite, that we do not assert that in no case has any human being
benefited by intercourse with any individual specimen of either
class. But we do say that, broadly speaking, nothing but harm can
be expected from association with such. Further in the case of one
of the three classes, mediumistic intercourse inflicts a distinct
injury upon innocent beings.
But though elementaries and elementals constitute a large pro
portion of the performers, there are other classes of actors. We do
not pretend —we are not permitted—to deal exhaustively with the
question at present, but we may refer to one of the most important
classes of entities, who can participate in objective phenomena, other
than elementaries and elementals.
This class comprises the spirits of conscious sane suicides. They
are Spirits, and not Shells, because there is not in their cases, at
any rate until later, a total and permanent divorce between the
fourth and fifth principles on the one hand, and the sixth and seventh
on the other. The two decades are divided, they exist apart, but a
line of connection still unites them, they may yet reunite, and the
sorely threatened personality avert its doom ; the fifth principle
still holds in its hands the clue by which, traversing the labyrinth
of earthly sins and passions, it may regain the sacred penetralia.
But, for the time, though really a spirit, and, therefore, so designated,
it is practically not far removed from a shell.
This class of spirit can undoubtedly communicate with men, but
as a rule, its members have to pay dearly for exercising the privilege,
while it is scarcely possible for them to do otherwise than lower
and debase the moral nature of those with and through whom they
have much communication. It is merely, broadly speaking, a ques
tion of degree ; of much or little enquiry resulting from such commu
nication ; the cases in which real, permanent good can arise are too
absolutely exceptional to require consideration.
Understand how the case stands. The unhappy being revolting
against the trials of life ; trials, the results of its own former actions ;
trials, heaven's merciful medicine for the mentally and spiritually
diseased, determines, instead of manfully taking arms against the
sea of troubles, to let the curtain drop, and, as it fancies, end them.
It destroys the body, but finds itself precisely as much alive,
mentally, as before. It had an appointed life-term determined by
an intricate web of prior causes, which its own wilful sudden act
cannot shorten. That term must run out its appointed sands. You
may smash the lower half of the hour glass, so that the impalpable
sand shooting from the upper bell is dissipated by the passing aerial
currents as it issues ; but that stream will run on, unnoticed,
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 139
though it remain, until the whole store in that upper receptacle is
exhausted.
So you may destroy the body, but not the appointed period of
sentient existence, foredoomed (because simply the effect of a plexus
of causes) to intervene before the dissolution of the personality ;
this must run on for its appointed period.
This is so in other cases, e.g., those of the victims of accident or
violence ; they, too, have to complete their life-term, and of these,
too, we may speak on another occasion —but here it is sufficient to
notice that, whether good or bad their mental attitude, at the time
of death, alters wholly their subsequent position. They, too, have
to wait on within the
"
Region of Desires
"
until their wave of life
runs on to and reaches its appointed shore, but they wait on, wrapped
in dreams, soothing and blissful, or the reverse, according to their
mental and moral state at, and prior to the fatal hour, but nearly
exempt from further material temptations, and, broadly speaking,
incapable (except just at the moment of real death) of communicating
scio motu with mankind, though not wholly beyond the possible
reach of the higher forms of "the Accursed Science," Necromancy.
The question is a profoundly abstruse one ; it would be impossible
to explain within the brief space still remaining to us, how the
conditions immediately after death in the case (1), of the man who
deliberately lays down (not merely risks) his life from altruistic
motives in the hope of saving those of others ; and (2) of him, who
deliberately sacrifices his life from selfish motives, in the hopes of
escaping trials and troubles, which loom before him, differ so entirely
as they do. Nature or Providence, Fate, or God, being merely a
self-adjusting machine it would at first sight seem as if the results
must be identical in both cases. But machine though it be, we must
remember that it is a machine sui generis—
"
Out of himself he span
Th' eternal web of right and wrong,
And ever feels the subtlest thrill
The slenderest thread along
" !
A machine compared with whose perfect sensitiveness and adjust
ment , the highest human intellect is but a coarse clumsy replica inpetto.
And we must remember that thoughts and motives are material,
and at times marvellously potent material forces, and we may then
begin to comprehend why the hero sacrificing his life on purely
altruistic grounds, sinks as his life-blood ebbs away into a sweet
dream, wherein —
" All that he wishes and all that he loves
Come smiling around his sunny way
"
only to wake into active or objective consciousness when re-born in
140 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the Region of Happiness, while the poor, unhappy and misguided
mortal who, seeking to elude fate, selfishly loosens the silver string
and breaks the golden bowl, finds himself terribly alive and awake,
instinct with all the evil cravings and desires that embittered his
world-life, without a body in which to gratify these and capable of
only such partial alleviation as is possible by more or less vicarious
gratification, and this only, at the cost of the ultimate complete
rupture with his sixth and seventh principles, and consequent
ultimate annihilation after, alas ! prolonged periods of suffering.
Let it not be supposed that there is no hope for this class —the
sane deliberate suicide. If bearing steadfastly his cross, he suffers
patiently his punishment, striving against carnal appetites, still alive
in him, in all their intensity, though, of course, each in proportion to
the degree to which it had been indulged in in earth-life. If we say he
bears this humbly, never allowing himself to be tempted here or
there into unlawful gratifications of unholy desires, then when his
fated death-hour strikes, his four higher principles reunite, and in the
final separation that then ensues, it may well be that all may be well
with him, and that he passes on to the gestation period and its
subsequent developments.
Till the predestined death-knell rings he has his chance, he may
wipe off in suffering and repentance many a sad black sore from the
page of
" Karma," but, alas ! and this is the point we desire to
impress upon Spiritualists, he may add a hundred fouler ones to the
sad blots already damning the record.
It is not merely for the sake of the mediums, not merely
" for
the sake of those that set at meat with these," but, above all, for the
sakes of these miserable half-lost brothers and sisters that we appeal.
Suddenly cut short in careers, always more or less deeply befouled
in all sane suicides (and we speak only of these, for insane suicides
are but victims), with one of the deadliest sins, rage, hatred, lust,
greed, etc., they awake to find themselves haunted by their besetting
sin in all its intensity. Around them are mediums, many of them of
sad purpose throwing themselves open to what they idly dream to be
angel guides. They have but to obsess these only too willing partners,
to share in their evil gratifications, or collecting out of their aura
and loosely coherent physical organizations, and from even fouler
sources, the tombs and shambles, materials for a fragile physical
organization of their own, revel in this with their mediums in all
imaginable iniquity. These were the incubi and succubi of mediaeval
times, these are the
"
Spirit wives "and "husbands "of modern days,
and these, when merely obsessing and not assuming a separate
objective form, are the demons of drunkenness, gluttony, hatred and
malice, the memorials of whose fiendish excesses crowd the sad
records alike of the present and the past.
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH 141
Evil to begin with, and separated (though not as yet irrevocably)
from their 6th and 7th principles, and such restraining influence as
these may have insensibly exercised, these spirits too often pass from
bad to worse, develop into true psychic vampires, driving victim
after victim to destruction, inciting to, and glorifying in the foulest,
the most incredible crimes, to be swept at last, when the appointed
death-hour strikes, on the flood-tide of their own enormities, far out
of the earth's aura into regions where cold annihilation, alone, drops
the curtain on iEons of unimaginable misery.
And many of these, veritable fiends as they become, were not so
very, very bad in this life ;
"
shady lots
"
perhaps in modern phrase
ology, with some rebellious, bitter, angry taint in the character, which
led them to suicide —but after all very far removed from the demons
in which they eventuated, and this awful and incredible development
devil-wards which they underwent, though indirectly facilitated by
the separation of their highest principles was primarily, and almost
exclusively, due to the temptations, the facilities for the gratification
of their worst desires, held out to them by mediums (recognized as
such or not) of the low physical-manifestation type.
Alas ! for the great bulk of such mediums I Alas I for too many of
their Spiritualistic admirers and associates ! Little do they dream
that two-thirds of all the most monstrous crimes in the world have
their origin in this low physical mediumistic capacity. Unrecognized
as such, hundreds of miserable mediums perish on the scaffold,
declaring, and declaring truly, that they were egged on to the crimes
for which they suffer by a devil in reality, an obsessing spirit, mostly
of this class. In thousands and thousands of cases, the gross sins,
drunkenness, gluttony, lewdness, beastiality in all its forms, which
spread desolation to innumerable happy hearths, and plunge in
misery and disgrace countless happy households, are all really
treaceable to this same class of spirit, deriving alike the intensity
of its evil desires and the power to do harm, from that fatal capacity
of mediumship of the low class, favourable to physical manifestations.
And this mediumship is a plant, that like a noxious weed spreads
as time runs on, under encouraging influences. Do the Spiritualists
who deal so complacently with, nay, who so greedily run after, these
physical-manifestation mediums reflect on, or at all realize what
they are doing ? It is not merely that both they themselves and the
mediums are running a fearful risk of moral shipwreck through this
intercourse. This can, to a certain extent, be guarded against
(though it too seldom is) by perfect purity of word, thought and deed;
and again the medium may (though this too is rare) be naturally so
well-disposed that the obsessing spirit, if not rabidly evil, may do little
harm, but what is alike beyond control of medium and his or her
supporters is diffusion, as the mediumship is developed, of mediumistic
142 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
germs through the Akasic atmosphere which lighting here and
there in appropriate soils, the weakest and most sensual natures,
will produce later a crop of more degraded mediums, destined
certainly to include many of the vilest sinners, if not several of the
deepest -dyed criminals of the age.
This form of mediumship is a deadly weed, and so far from being
encouraged into reproduction (and that is what the Spiritualists, as
a body, do), it should be starved out, by disuse, whenever and where-
ever it is recognized. It will always unfortunately exist, springing
sporadically here and there and, though dwarfed in habit, contribu
ting largely to the loathsome annals of sin and crime ; but it is truly
monstrous to aid propagation, and in intensified form, of this curse,
by aiding and abetting the development and function of prominent
specimens.
Let none, who do this, dream that they can escape the conse
quences. All who share in transactions by which sin and misery are
multiplied for others, must share the recoil. They may act in
ignorance, in good faith, and so escape the moral taint, the most
grievous of the consequences of evil, but they can by no means escape
the other consequences, and they will have to brave in coming lives
the angry buffets of a retributive justice, which, though sleeping
during the present, never sleeps during a second life.
KARMA
[The Theosophist, Vol. IV, No. 10 (46), July, 1883, pp. 252-253.]
(An Appendix to Fragments of Occult Truth.)
With reference to a tenet in one of the Fragments of Occult Truth,
a respected member of our Society —N. D. K. —writes to enquire
" What Karma propels the higher Ego into the next birth," when
" a highly depraved personality is dropped out."
At the outset it may be well to repeat again what has been already
so often stated, namely, that the Fragments being but fragmentary
and incomplete, must go on exhibiting difficulties and even apparent
discrepancies until the whole doctrine concerning the after-state
of the Ego is thoroughly mastered. But students with a tolerable
amount of intuitive perception have had enough of philosophy given
them, to enable the more advanced ones to work out many a detail :
especially if they live the life which clears the inner vision. Few
of these can be given in a publication that reaches the outsider as
well as the student of occultism. There are secrets of initiation
that it is impossible to communicate promiscuously to the world at
KARMA 143
large, for it would amount to throwing many a mind into a direful
confusion, unless the whole doctrine is explained ; and this no adept
or even advanced neophyte would consent to do at this stage of the
teaching. But this particular tenet having already outlined, there is
no further necessity to remain silent with regard to this special
detail.
The readers of Colonel Olcott's Buddhist Catechism may well
recall here with advantage the following very suggestive passages
(pages 54 and 55) :
". . . In each birth the personality differs from that of the
previous or next succeeding birth. Karma, the deus ex machina,
masks (or shall we say reflects ?) itself now in the personality
of a sage, again as an artisan, and so on throughout the string
of births. But though personalities ever shift, the one line of
life along which they are strung like beads, runs unbroken. . . ."
Alongside with the above quotation should be put the following
from the Fragments of Occult Truth, No. 1.
". . . The time will come, no doubt, but many steps higher on
the ladder, when the Ego will regain its consciousness of all its
past stages of existence. ..."
If the enquirer will realize the real meaning of these two quota
tions, he will have the key to a correct understanding of the question
as to what Karma propels the higher Ego into the next birth, when
even that of a highly depraved personality is dropped out, together
with the personal soul that is responsible for it. It will be clear from
these passages that the individuality or the spiritual monad is a
thread upon which are strung various personalities. Each personality
leaves its own —the higher spiritual —impressions upon the divine
Ego, the consciousness of which returns at a certain stage of its
progress, even that of the highly depraved soul that had to perish
in the end. The reason for it becomes self-evident, if one reflects
that however criminal and lost to every glimmer of a higher feeling,
no human soul is yet born utterly depraved, and that there was a
time during the youth of the sinful human personality when it had
worked out some kind or other of Karma ; and that it is this that
survives and forms the basis of the Karma to come. To make it
clearer, let us suppose that A lives to that age when a person becomes
an adult and begins to bloom fully into life. No man, however
vicious his natural tendency, becomes so at once. He has had there
fore time to evolve a Karma, however faint and insignificant. Let us
further imagine that at the age of eighteen or twenty A begins to
144 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
give way to vice and thus gradually loses the remotest connection
with his higher principle. At thirty or say forty, he dies. Now, the
personality of A between fifteen and twenty is as little the person
ality of A from twenty to thirty, as though it were quite another man.
Even the physiologists divide the physical personality into stages of
seven, and show man changing atoms to the last, every seven years.
The same with the inner man . The fifth principle of the sensual, highly
depraved man, may and will perish, while the Karma of his youth
though not strong and complete enough to secure for him a bliss in
Devachan and union with his higher principle —is yet sufficiently
outlined to allow the monad a grasp on it for the next rebirth. On
the other hand we are taught that it so happens sometimes that the
Karma of a personality is not fully worked out in the birth that
follows. Life is made up of accidents, and the personality that be
comes may be hindered by circumstances from receiving the full due
its Karma is entitled to, whether good or bad. But the Law of
Retribution will never allow itself to be cheated by blind chance.
There is then a provision to be made, and the accounts that could
not be settled in one birth will be squared in the succeeding one.
The portion of the sum-total which could not be summed up on one
column is carried forward to the following. For verily the many lives
of an individual monad were well compared in the Fragments to the
pages of an account book—the Book of Life or—Lives. . . .
Out of these impressions, then, which constitute the Karma of
the youth, is evolved the new personality. Our botanical friends
may know that the croton plant evolves out of itself another plant,
when the one already evolved dies out or withers away. Nature must
always progress, and each fresh attempt is more successful than the
previous one. This fresh evolution is due to the latent potentiality
of life it has within itself. In the same manner, although one particu
lar personality may be so far depraved as to be entirely dissociated
from the spiritual monad and go into the eighth sphere, where anni
hilation is its lot, yet the impressions of the previous personalities
upon the higher Ego have in them potentiality enough to evolve
a new physical Ego, like the croton plant. The connection between a
man's spiritual monad and the succession of physical Egos with
which it is temporarily associated, has been, somewhere in these
columns, compared to the retrospective glance of a man on some past
period of his earthly existence. While reviewing in his memory his
work day by day—those days on which he did nothing of any impor
tance and passed idly away, having left no impression on his mind,
must be, and are to him, like a perfect blank. No consciousness that
he had passed such days remains there. In the same manner, the
Ego when at the end of its long pilgrimage will regain consciousness
of those personalities only which have made a sufficiently strong
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 145
spiritual, hence indelible, mark on the monad, while the memory of
the conscious acts of the particular depraved personality which goes
to the eighth sphere will be entirely obliterated.
It may be urged what stimulus is there for a man to be good and
pure, if his spiritual monad is anyhow to progress ? This is no doubt
a side issue but a very important one. It must not be discussed
however at this stage of our writing.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 1 (25), October, 1881, pp. 26-27.]
Nothing promises to prove more dangerous to the Bible and to the
Bible Christians —not even the new Revision of the sacred volume by
the combined ecclesiastical talent of England, than that eminently
Hindu funeral rite—cremation. The more this mode of disposing of
the bodies of the dead comes into general practice the more it is
calculated to strike terror into the hearts of the pious and God
fearing folk who look forward to death, because of the resurrection at
the last joyful summons from the Angel's trumpet. But with crema
tion resurrection has become impossible. But since matters cannot
be mended and science has entered into a league with the heathens,
even such a bigoted country as Italy, priest-ridden and Jesuit-ridden
as it is, has taken the lead in cremation. Germany, according to a
correspondent of the Pall Mall Gazette, has also its own Cremation
Hall at Gotha, a handsome and spacious building, and artistically
inferior to only that of Milan. It has been in existence about two
years and a half, and was built by an association or Verein of some
of the most thoughtful and learned men in Germany. The corre
spondent adds :
"
Fifty-two persons, five of whom were women,
have in this space of time chosen such a form of burial, [does not this
sound like a bull P1] one body being sent from New York. The cost
of the mere process of cremation is about five pounds sterling, and
the religious ceremony can be first read over the body. It is un
necessary to say that the Catholic priest refuses Church burial to
anyone electing to be cremated. Protestant pastors, on the contrary,
willingly accord it. The cinerary urns bear the name of one or two
Jews." It would be worth while deterrnining as to who are the most
consistent —the Catholic priests, the Protestant pastors, or the Jews ?
The correspondent thus concludes : "I think few visitors will visit
this cremation hall without being duly impressed in favour of a
system so advantageous to the living, and, it must be admitted —
at least, of France and Germany—also advantageous to the dead.
1 [Square brackets are H. P. B.'s. —Ed.]
K
146 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Here, as in France, the law compels such prompt internment that in
many cases it has been known to take place before the breath has
left the body. In Algeria I have known personally a victim of this
misapprehension ; and my German friends all speak to me in warm
terms of the new system as irrespective of other advantages, pre
venting premature burial."
FOOTNOTES TO "
WHO ARE THE ARYAS AND THE
BUDDHISTS ?
"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 1 (25), Supplement, October, 1881,
PP- 2-3.]
[This is an extract from the Journal of the Hindu Sabha, on the
subject of initiations and initiates in ancient India. The writer says
that
"
the gods were fully Emancipated Theosophists," to which
H. P. B. remarks :]
Or the highest adepts. To this day in Tibet, the
"
perfect Lamas
or Bodhisattvas
"
are called gods and Spirits —Las.
[The writer continues :
"
We hold the ancient land of the Aryas
with their gods and their Rishis to have been the Himalayan station
which is even now Sacred to Hindu Theosophists and where Theo-
sophical merit and learning still flourishes and whence the Brahma
putra still flows."]
We italicize these lines as they have a direct reference to our first
section, doubted and ridiculed by blind scoffers —a reality neverthe
less. We can only repeat with Galileo his historical and immortal
words : E pur se muove ! Other scoffers and bigots as blind as our
modern skeptics would not allow the earth to move, and yet it moved,
moves and will move unto the last hour of the Pralaya.
And the Brahmaputra flows from Tibet. " There is no reasonable
doubt that the Tsampu of great Tibet and the Brahmaputra of the
plains are one and the same river," says Markham in his recent work
Tibet. ... "
Great Tibet embraces the region between the Northern
and Southern chains of the Himalaya, the towns and principal
monasteries . . . are chiefly in the valley of the Brahmaputra."
[The writer concludes saying :
" The Founders of the Theo
sophical Society say that they are in communion with Yogis, the
Editor of the Saddarshana Chintanika that his Yogi will reveal him
self in time, and the Hindu Sabha exhorts every one to invoke the
Yogi within himself." To this H. P. B. appends the following note:]
And the Hindu Sabha is quite right,
if,
by
"
Yogi,"
it
means Atma,
CURRENT EVENTS 147
the highest Spiritual Soul. But the writer uses an incorrect expres
sion when saying that the Founders of the Theosophical Society claim
communication with Yogis ; Yogis can be but Hindus and in the
Fraternity—with which we claim to have some acquaintance —the
Hindus are in a minority. Even these cannot strictly be called
"
Yogis
"
since their modes of life, habits, religious worship and form
of Initiation differs entirely from those of the Hindu Yogis as known
to the general public. In one respect only are the adepts, we know,
like Yogis ; namely, in their great purity of life, self-abnegation,
and the practice of Dhyan and Samadhi.
CURRENT EVENTS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No, I (25), Supplement, October, 1881,
PP- 3-5-]
[Commenting on a letter from correspondents who referred
enthusiastically to the revival movement in Hinduism, congratula
ting the Theosophical Society on its work in this direction, and
invoking the help of the
" Divine Power" for "the advocates of
the religion inculcated in the Arya Shastras," H. P. B. wrote as
follows :]
To avoid misunderstanding and especially
"
misrepresentations
"
on the part of our opponents, we must remark in connection with
the above letter that we
"
advocate
"
no more the religion taught
in the Arya Shastras than we do any other faith. Our journal is
absolutely unsectarian and equally open to every sincere and honest
defender and advocate of his own faith —whatever the latter may be.
We are devoted admirers of the Vedas, holding it in veneration as
the oldest, and, as we believe, the wisest book of the world, although
its mystical and allegorical language needs the interpretation of one
who thoroughly understands its spirit. As we do not feel competent
to decide which of the various and many interpreters is the right
one, we try to be impartial to all and let every sect (with the excep
tion of the "Maharaja sect," of course), advocate its own cause
before the public. The Founders of the Theosophical Society and
Proprietors of this Journal are the staunch allies and devoted
friends of Swamijee Dayanand Saraswati, the founder of the Arya
Samaj, and author of the Veda Bhashya ; but though the recog
nized supreme chief of a number of our Theosophists who belong to
the Arya Samaj, neither the President of the Parent Society, Colonel
H. S. Olcott, nor yet its Corresponding Secretary, Mme. H. P.
Blavatsky, can ever be his followers any more than those of any
other Preacher, as the Rules of our Society strictly forbid its Founders
r48 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
and the Presidents of its many Branches to advocate either in our
journal, or at mixed and general meetings, any one religion in pre
ference to any other. We are all upon neutral ground, and even
our own personal religious leanings or preferences have nothing to do
and must not interfere with the general work. We preach and advo
cate an incessant and untiring search for truth, and are ever
ready to receive and accept it from whatever quarter. We are all
enquirers and never offered ourselves as teachers, except in so far as
to teach mutual tolerance, kindness and reciprocal enlightenment
and a firm resistance to bigotry and arrogant conceit whether in
RELIGION or SCIENCE.
THE THEOSOPHIST AND PANDIT SHRADDHA
RAM
[The Theosophist, Vol .III, No. i (25), October, 1881, Supplement,
PP- 4-50
In the August number of The Theosophist there appeared a short
paragraph announcing the death of Pandit Shraddha Ram of
Jallunder, Punjab. Several friends and Theosophists of Lahore,
among others, writing to the Headquarters to express their deep
regret, asked the Editor to devote to the death of the late Pandit a
few lines of notice. As the President Founder and the Editor had
known the deceased gentleman personally, during their stay at Lahore,
where, it appears, he was much beloved by all the orthodox Hindus,
their just desire was complied with, and the short obituary appeared.
It was a small courtesy to show to one who had been a warm defender
and preacher of his views during life, a sincere and fearless champion
of what was to him sacred truth —Hindu or Brahmanical religion.
Yet it was found fault with and strongly upbraided and criticized
by the last person we would have ever thought of, in such a con
nection —A Theosophist and an Arya-Samajist ! ! On n'est jamais
trahi que par les siens becomes truer than ever. We leave to the
impartial reader to judge and decide which, the Editor or the
" Critic," is
"
bringing discredit
"
upon himself. The criticism
appeared in the Tribune of Lahore, August 13, and we now give it
to our readers as it stands :
*'
THE THEOSOPHIST AND PANDIT SARDHA RAM
'
To the Editor of The Tribune :
" Sir, —It is curious to see in The Theosophist for August 1881 (page
245) that Pandit Sardha Ram, deceased, is trumpeted to have been a
THE THEOSOPHIST AND PANDIT SHRADDHA RAM 149
leader of Hindu religion and to have disseminated his opinions so boldly
and eloquently that neither Brahmo nor Arya-Samajists ever ventured
to cross him.
"
This is anything but true, and the Editor of that journal is greatly
misinformed, and no doubt brings discredit upon herself by giving
publicity to such trash and utterly incorrect information in the editorial
columns of her paper, for everybody who knew Pundit Sardha Ram
knows full well that he was innocent of having ever engaged himself in
discussion with an Arya-Samajist, though challenged to do so many a
time by them.
" Indeed, he organized a society giving it the name of Hari-Gyan-
Sabha, which is composed of a dozen of persons overwise for the present
age, who are disinterestedly devoted to the secret cause of idolatry and
superstition, which the Arya-Samaj ruthlessly attempts to sweep away
by its sacrilegious act of disseminating Vedic knowledge through the
length and breadth of the country.
" True the Pandit was a leader of the Hindu religion, but only so far
as the members of Huri-Gyan-Sabha are concerned ; for without the pale
of that Sabha no one ever thought him guilty of deep Sanskrit learnings
and it is an acknowledged fact that he was not encumbered with Vedic
knowledge in the least.
" As regards the Brahmos it would be unjust to omit to state here that
once the deceased held a discussion with Babu Nobin Chander Roy and
suffered the game to be won by the Babu as is apparent from a pamphlet
in which that discussion has been published. We would fain have re
frained from criticism upon a dead man, but truth compels us to disabuse
the public of a wrong notion which a note in The Theosophist from the
pen of its Editor is calculated to create, and I, therefore, beg to request
you, Mr. Editor, to insert these few lines in the next issue of your paper
and oblige,
*'
Yours &c.,
" A Theosophist and Arya-Samajist."
"
Aug. 11, 1881."
THE THEOSOPHIST AND ARYA-SAMAJIST
To the Editor of The Tribune.
Dear Sir,
A letter published in your issue of August 14th and signed
" A Theosophist and Arya-Samajist
" has unfortunately —for
its writer —appeared in your columns and demands a prompt reply.
Had it been signed by any other nom de plume I would never think of
answering it, still less giving my reasons for publishing anything
I choose in the journal conducted by me. As the matter stands,
however, and the writer having publicly accused
"
the Editor of that
journal
"
(The Theosophist) of being
"
greatly misinformed," and
bringing
"
discredit upon herself by giving publicity to such a trash
"
150 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
(sic)
—viz., by inserting a few lines to express regret at the
sudden death of Pandit Shraddha Ram
(!)
—
I,
the undersigned, the
Editor of The Theosophist, and one of the Founders of the Society
to which the writer himself belongs, will now, with your permission,
answer his very flippant, untruthful, and,
I
regret to say —since he
is
a theosophist—transparently spiteful remarks.
(1) Icould not be
"
greatly misinformed
"
since my information
was derived (a) from
a
personal, though
a
very short acquaintance
with the defunct, at Lahore
;
(b)
from several trustworthy and
impartial informants, such as a high English official,
a
Christian
clergyman, and several respectable natives from that same city
;
and finally
(c)
from two members of our Society—one of whom
is
a
greatly esteemed and very learned native of Lahore,
a
valued friend
of ours and—
a
"
theosophist of good standing."
(2) No Editor can possibly
"
bring discredit
"
upon himself,
unless our critic and Brother
(?)
has yet to learn the real value of
English words—merely for his speaking in
a
spirit of kindness of a
defunct person, were the latter the greatest reprobate, which, even
the detractors of the late Pandit, would never dare to say of him.
De mortuis nil nisi bonum
is
the motto of every honest man. On the
other hand,
a
"
Theosophist
"—the more so
if
in addition to being a
Fellow of
a
Society, based upon the wisest principles of mutual
tolerance and universal philanthropy, one, in short, striving to
deserve the name of a practical Brotherhood ofHumanity, he
is
a
member of the Arya Samaj,
a
body known as opposing and being
opposed by every orthodox Hindu—does
"
bring discredit," and not
only upon himself, but upon the Society he belongs to, by showing
such
a
spirit of personal spite, narrow-mindedness and uncharitable-
ness, as exhibited in his criticism in the Tribune.
" It
is
far less a
sin to speak kindly of and forgive ten sinners deserving punishment,
than to slander or punish one who
is
innocent
"
is
an old saying,
especially —we may add —when the victim
is
dead and cannot defend
himself.
(3)
It
is
not true that Pandit Shraddha Ram
"
was innocent of
any discussion with an Arya-Samajist
"
as
I
happen to know to the
contrary
;
nor, that his
"
Hari-Gyana Mandir
"
(or Hari-Gyan
Sabha, as the writer calls
it)
is
composed but of
"
a
dozen of per
sons
"
;
nor yet that in his polemics with Babu Nobin Chunder Roy
"
he suffered the game to be won
"
by that Brahmo gentleman, as
the Pandit was away, we are told, when his Bengali opponent had
his last say, and that since then he published the Dhartna Rakhsha
in which he contradicted every word pronounced by his opponent.
All his insinuations are exaggerated and greatly misrepresented.
The late Pandit may have been little "guilty of deep Sanskrit
learning
"
for all
I
can vouch for, but that
is
no reason why he should
THE THEOSOPHIST AND PANDIT SHRADDHA RAM 151
not be honoured after his death as a good and generally respected
man. The whole letter under notice, breathing that spiteful
and bigoted spirit of partisanship which precludes the possibility
on the part of its writer to show himself fair and impartial —his
object falls short of its mark and his vilifications harm but their
author.
While one'
"
Theosophist
" writes a ^wosi-libellous letter, and
throws mud upon the memory of one, whose only crime seems to
have been to oppose the teachings of the Arya-Samajists which he
honestly, if erroneously, believed heretical —another Theosophist
whom we personally know, as a most trustworthy and impartial
witness, wrote to Colonel Olcott from Lahore, at the date of July 18,
1881, the following :
"It is with deep regret that I inform you of the sudden death
of Pandit Shraddha Ram of Phillour, in the District of Jullander
in the Punjab —who visited you at Lahore. He was the only
preacher of orthodox Hinduism, who travelled far and wide on
behalf of his religion at his own expenses, and spoke so eloquently
and with such a force of argument that neither missionaries,
Moulvies, nor Brahmos, ever dared to encounter him . . . (this
informant, independently of informant number one, whose
paragraph we published, gives the very same testimony as to what
our critic contradicts). He was a great orator, and his argumenta
tive powers were very remarkable indeed. In addition to his
knowledge of Sanskrit he was well versed in Persian, knew medicine
and knew the Nasht Patrika, a branch of astrology, to almost a
miraculous perfection. He also knew music, was a good poet, and
an admirable writer in Hindi. Religious hymns of his composition
are much appreciated and sung in the Punjab. His pleasing
manners and marvellous abilities secured for him the friendship
of many good-natured Christian missionaries and of several
European officials of high position. . . . His loss is not only severely
felt by all the orthodox Hindus, but is deeply regretted and sincerely
lamented by all his Arya-Samaj and Brahmo-Samaj friends."
The italics are mine. Whom are we to believe ? Evidently
Theosophist No. 2 had not met
" A Theosophist
" No. 1, otherwise
the —to put it very mildly —indiscreet remarks in his letter would have
never appeared, perchance, in the Tribune. To conclude :
As the Editor of The Theosophist, I now publicly declare that
being no sectarian, following no one's lead, and feeling the pro-
foundest contempt for narrow-minded bigotry under whatever form,
the columns of our journal —so long as I edit it—will never be closed
against any writer, only because he happens to differ with me on
religious or philosophical opinions. Holding Gautama Buddha
152 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
higher in my veneration than any other religious teacher the world
over, I yet publicly, and notwithstanding Buddhist opposition to the
Hindu Scriptures —profess a profound admiration for the Vedas and
the Vedanta teaching, simply because I claim an undeniable right of
thinking for myself, untrammelled by any divine or human teacher
or teaching. And were I to receive, at any day, a well-written article
directed either against our Society, the Buddhist Saviour, or myself
personally, I would surely publish it in the same spirit of tolerance
and impartiality, and with the same readiness as I would give room
to one against a declared enemy of ours. And, as the Corresponding
Secretary of the Parent or Central Theosophical Society, I am com
pelled to warn "A Theosophist and Arya-Samajist ". Let him
avoid in future giving vent to such feelings as expressed by him in the
Tribune as they are as discreditable to himself, as they are loathsome
to the Society which honoured him by admitting him to the number
of its Fellows. Unless he heeds this friendly advice our General
Council might some day interfere, and he would suddenly find himself
compelled to sign his future denunciations but as
" An Arya-
Samajist."
Fraternally yours,
H. P. Blavatsky.
Simla, August 24, 1881.
THE SIX-POINTED AND FIVE-POINTED STARS
OUR ANSWER
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 2 (26), November, 1881, pp. 31-33.]
["Our Answer" was written by way of reply to an article by
K. Lalshankar, entitled The Six-Pointed and Five-Pointed Stars. It
is quite complete and self-explanatory.]
Our authorities for representing the pentagram or the five-pointed
star as the microcosm, and the six-pointed double triangle as the
macrocosm, are all the best known Western Kabalists —mediaeval and
modern. Eliphas Levi (Abb6 Constant), and, we believe, Kunrath,
one of the greatest occultists of the past ages, give their reasons for
it. In Hargrave Jennings' Rosicrucians the correct cut of the
microcosm with man in the centre of the Pentagram is given. There is
no objection whatever to publish their speculations save one—the
lack of space in our journal, as it would necessitate an enormous
amount of explanations to make their esoteric meaning clear. But
room will always be found to correct a few natural misconceptions
which may arise in the minds of some of our readers, owing to the
THE SIX-POINTED AND FIVE-POINTED STARS 153
necessary brevity of our editorial notes. So long as the question
raised provokes no discussion to show the interest taken in the
subject, these notes touch but superficially upon every question. The
excellence of the above-published paper, and the many valuable
remarks contained in it, afford us now an opportunity for correcting
such errors in the author's mind.
As understood in the West, Spirit and Matter have for the real
Kabalists their chief symbolical meaning, in the respective colours
of the two interlaced triangles and relate in no way to any of the
lines which bind the figures themselves. To the Kabalist and
Hermetic philosopher, every thing in nature appears under a triune
aspect ; every thing is a multiplicity and trinity in unity, and is
represented by him so symbolically in various geometrical figures.
" God geometrizes," says Plato. The
"
Three Kabalistic Faces
"
are
the "Three Lights" and the "Three Lives" of En-Soph (the
Parabrahma of the Westerns) also called the
" Central Invisible
Sun ". The
" Universe is his Spirit, Soul and Body," his
"
Three
Emanations ". This triune nature—the purely Spiritual the purely
Material and the Middle nature (or imponderable matter, of which
is composed man's astral soul) are represented by the equilateral tri
angle whose three sides are equal, because these three principles are
diffused throughout the universe in equal proportions ; and the One
Law in nature being perfect Equilibrium —they are eternal and
coexistent. The Western symbology then, with a trifling variation,
is identically the same as that of the Aryans. Names may vary, and
trifling details added, but the fundamental ideas are the same. The
double triangle representing symbolically, the Macrocosm, or great
universe, contains in itself besides the idea of the duality (as shown
in the two colours, and two triangles—the universe of Spirit and
that of Matter)—those of the Unity, of the Trinity, of the Pytha
gorean Tetractis—the perfect Square —and up to the Dodecagon
and the Dodecahedron. The ancient Chaldean Kabalists —the
masters and inspirers of the Jewish Kabala —were not the Anthropo-
morphites of the Old Testament or those of the present day. Their
En-Soph—the Endless and the Boundless —" has a form and then
he has no form," says the Book of the Sohar1 and forthwith explains,
the riddle by adding :
" The Invisible assumed a form when he called
the universe into existence," i.e., the Diety can only be seen and con
ceived of in objective nature—pure pantheism. The three sides of
the triangles represent to the Occultists as to the Aryans —spirit,
matter, and middle nature (the latter identical in its meaning with
space) ; hence also —the creative, preservative, and destructive
energies, typified in the
" Three Lights". The first light infuses
1 Sohar —Book of Splendour, written by Symeon Ben Yochai, in the first century
B.C. ; according to others in the year a.d. 80.
154 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
intelligent, conscious life throughout the universe, thus answering to
the creative energy ; the second light produces incessantly forms out
of cosmic pre-existent matter and within the cosmic circle, hence is
the preservative energy ; the third light produces the whole universe
of gross physical matter ; and , as the latter keeps gradually receding
from the central spiritual light, its brightness wanes, and it becomes
Darkness or evil leading to Death. Hence it becomes the destructive
energy, which we find ever at work on forms and shapes —the
temporary and the changing. The Three Kabalistic Faces of the
"Ancient of the Ancient
"—who "has no face
"
are the Aryan
deities —respectively called Brahma, Vishnu, and Rudra or Siva. The
double triangle of the Kabalists is enclosed within a circle repre
sented by a serpent swallowing its own tail (Egyptian emblem of the
eternity) and sometimes by a simple circle (See the Theosophical
Seal). The only difference we can see between the Aryan and the
Western symbology of the double triangle —judging by the author's
explanation —lies in his omission to notice the profound and special
meaning in that which he terms
"
the zenith and the zero
"
if we
understand him rightly. With the Western Kabalists —the apex of
the white triangle loses itself (the meaning being the same in the
Egyptian pyramid)1 in the zenith, the world of pure immateriality
or unalloyed spirit, while the lower angle of the black triangle2
pointing downward towards the nadir shows —to use a very prosaic
phrase of the mediaeval Hermetists —pure or rather
"
impure matter"
as the
"
gross purgations of the celestial fire
"—Spirit —drawn into
the vortex of annihilation, that lower world, where forms and shapes
and conscious life disappear to be dispersed and return to the mother
fount —cosmic matter. So with the central point, and the central
1 A French archaeologist of some renown, Dr. Rebold, shows the great culture of
the Egyptians 5000 B.C., by stating upon various authorities that there were at that
time no less than
"
thirty or forty colleges of the initiated priests who studied occult
sciences and practical magic."
1 In the August Number (1881) of The Theosophist a mistake has crept in which
has now to be corrected. On page 240 (second column, line 16th of the Editor's
Note) it is said—"
the two points of its black triangle inclining earthward," whereas
it ought to read—the
"
lower point of its black triangle," since the black triangle has
its two angles forming its base reversed.
THE SIX-POINTED AND FIVE-POINTED STARS 155
cavity, which according to the Puranic teaching "is considered to
be the seat of the Avyaktabrahma —or the unmanifested Deity."
The Occultists who generally draw the figure thus, instead of a
simple central, geometrical point, (which, having neither length,
breadth, nor thickness, represents the invisible
"
Central Sun," the
light of the
"
unmanifested deity ") often place the crux ansata
(the handled cross or the Egyptian tau), at the zenith of which instead
of a mere upright line they substituted a circle —symbol of limitless,
uncreated Space, which cross thus modified has nearly the same
significance as the
"
mundane cross
" of the ancient Egyptian
Hermetists, a cross within a circle. Therefore, it is erroneous to say
the the Editorial note stated that the double triangle represented
"
Spirit and matter only
" for it represents so many emblems that
a volume would not suffice to explain them.
Says our critic : "If, as you say, the double triangle is made to
represent the universal spirit and matter only, the objection that
two sides —or any two things—cannot form a triangle, or that a
triangle cannot be made to represent one —a spirit alone, or matter
alone —as you appear to have done by the distinction of white and
black—remains unexplained." Believing that we have now suffici
ently explained some of the difficulties, and shown that the Western
Kabalists always regarded the
"
trinity in unity
" and vice versa, we
may add that the Pythagoreans have explained away the "objec
tion
"
especially insisted upon by the writer of the above words,
about 2500 years ago. The sacred numbers of that school —whose
cardinal idea was that there existed a permanent principle of unity
beneath all the forces and phenomenal changes of the universe, —did
not include the number two or the duad among the others. The
Pythagoreans refused to recognize that number, even as an abstract
idea, precisely on that ground that in geometry it was impossible
to construct a figure with only two straight lines. It is obvious that
for symbolical purposes the number cannot be identified with any
circumscribed figure, whether a plane or a solid geometric figure ;
and thus as it could not be made to represent a unity in a multi
plicity as any other polygonal figure can, it could not be regarded as
156 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
a sacred number. The number two represented in geometry by a
double horizontal line == and in the Roman numerals by a double
perpendicular line [| and a line having length, but not breadth or
thickness, it had to have another numeral added to it before it could
be accepted. It is but in conjunction with number one that, becoming
the equilateral triangle, it can be called a figure. It becomes, there
fore, evident why, having to symbolize spirit and matter—the Alpha
and the Omega in the Cosmos —the Hermetists had to use two
triangles interlaced —both a
"
trinity in unity
"—making the former
to typify "spirit " —white with chalk—and the latter typifying
"
matter
"—black, with charcoal.
To the question, what do the other white points signify, if the
one
"
white point ascending heavenward symbolizes spirit
"—we
answer that, according to the Kabalists, the two lower points signify
"spirit falling into generation," i.e., the pure divine spark already
mixed with the matter of the phenomenal world. The same explana
tion holds good for the two black angles of the horizontal line ; both
of the third points, showing one —the progressive purification of the
spirit, and the other—the progressive grossness of matter. Again,
to say that
"
any thought of upward or downward
" in
" the sublime
idea of the Cosmos
"
seems
"
not only revolting but unreal," is to
object to anything abstract being symbolized in a concrete image.
Then why not make away with all the signs altogether, including
that of Vishnu and with all the learned Puranic explanations thereof
given by the writer ? And why should the Kabalistic idea be more
revolting than that of
" Death—Devourer—Time," the latter word
being a synonym of Endless Eternity—represented by a circle
surrounding the double triangle ? Strange inconsistency, and one,
moreover, which clashes entirely with the rest of the article ! If the
writer has not met
"
anywhere with the idea of one triangle being
white and the other black
"
it is simply because he has never studied,
nor probably even seen the writings of the Western Kabalists and
their illustrations.
The above explanations given by us contain the key to the
Pythagorean general formula of unity in multiplicity, the one
evolving the many, and pervading the many and the whole. Their
mystic Decad 1+2+3+4=10, expresses the entire idea ; it is not
only far from being
"
revolting
" but it is positively sublime. The
One is the Deity, the Two matter. The figure so despised by them
as matter per se can never be a conscious unity1 the Three (or
Triangle (combining Monad and Duad, partaking of the nature of
both becomes the triad or the phenomenal world. The Tetrad or
sacred Tetraktis, the form of perfection with the Pythagoreans,
1 See in Kapila's Sankhya —Purusha and Prakriti : only the two combined whe n
forming a perfect unity can manifest themselves in the world of senses.
THE SIX-POINTED AND FIVE-POINTED STARS 157
expresses at the same time the emptiness of all—Maya ; while the
Decad, or sum of all, involves the entire cosmos.
"
The universe
is the combination of a thousand elements, and yet the expression
of a single element —absolute harmony or spirit —a chaos to the
sense, a perfect cosmos to reason
"—we say in Isis Unveiled. Pytha
goras learned his philosophy in India. Hence the similarity in the
fundamental ideas of the ancient Brahmanical Initiates and the
Pythagorists. And when denning the Shatkon, the writer says
it
"
represents the great universe —Brahmanda —the whole endless
Mahakasha —with all the planetary and stellar worlds continued in
it," he only repeats in other words the explanation given by
Pythagoras and the Hermetic philosophers of the hexagonal star
or the
"
Double Triangle
"
as shown above.
Nor do we find it very difficult to fill up the gap left in our brief
note in the August number as to the
"
remaining three points of the
two triangles
"
and the three sides of each of the
"
double triangle
"
or of the circle surrounding the figure. As the Hermetists symbolised
everything visible and invisible they could not but do so for the
macrocosm in its completeness. The Pythagorists who included in
their Decad the entire cosmos, held the number 12 in still higher
reverence as it represented the sacred Tetraktis multiplied by three,
which gave a trinity of perfect squares called Tetrads. The Hermetic
philosophers or Occultists following in their steps represented this
number 12 in the
" Double Triangle
"—the great universe or the
Macrocosm as shown in this figure, and included in it the pentagram,
or the microcosm —called by them —the little universe.
Dividing the twelve letters of the outer angles into four groups
of triads, or three groups of Tetraktis, they obtained the dodecagon,
the regular geometric polygon, bounded by twelve equal sides and
containing twelve equal angles which symbolized with the ancient
Chaldeans —the twelve
"
great gods M1
and with the Hebrew Kabal-
ists the ten Sephiroths, or creative powers of Nature, emanated from
Sephira (Divine Light) herself the chief Sephiroth and emanation
from Hakoma, the Supreme Wisdom, (the unmanifested wisdom) and
En-Soph the endless ; viz., three groups of Triads of the Sephiroths
and a fourth Triad, composed of Sephira, En-Soph, and
"
Hakoma
"
the Supreme Wisdom
"
that cannot be understood by reflection," and
1 According to Haug's AUareya Brahmanam, the Hindu manas (mind) or Bhaga-
vant creates no more than the Pythagorean monas. He enters the egg of the world
and emanates from it as Brahm, as itself (Bhagavant) has no first cause (apiirva).
Brahm as Prajapati manifests himself as the androgyne Sephira first of all as the ten
Sephiroths do —as twelve bodies or attributes which are represented by the twelve
gods symbolizing i —Fire, 2—the Sun, 3
—Soma, 4
—all living Beings, 5
—Vayu,
6— Death, —Siva, 7
—Earth, 8—Heaven, 9
—Agni, 10—Aditya, 11 —Mind, 12 —the
great Infinite Cycle which is not to be stopped. This, with a few variations is purely
the Kabalistic idea of the Sephiroths.
158 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
which ' '
lies con cealed within and without the cranium of Long Face,
' ' 1
the uppermost head of the upper triangle formed the
"
Three Kabal-
istic Faces," making up the twelve. Moreover, the twelve figures give
two squares or the double tetraktis representing in the Pythagorean
symbology the two worlds—the spiritual and the physical, the 18
inner and 6 central angles yield, besides 24, twice the sacred macro-
cosmic number, or the 24
" divine unmanifested powers." These it
would be impossible to enumerate in so short a space. Besides it
is far more reasonable in our days of scepticism to follow the hint of
Iamblichus, who says that
"
the divine powers always felt indignant
A
with those who rendered manifest the composition of the icostag-
onus
" viz., who delivered the method of inscribing in a sphere the
dodecahedron —one of the five solid figures in Geometry, contained
under twelve equal and regular pentagons, the secret Kabalistic
meaning of which our opponents would do well to study.
In addition to all that, as shown in the
" Double triangle
" above,
the pentagram in its centre gives the key to the meaning of the
Hermetic philosophers and Kabalists. So well known and spread is
that double sign that it may be found over the entrance door of the
Lha-Khang (temple containing Buddhist images and statues) in
every Gong-pa (lamasery) and often over the relic-cupboard, called
in Tibet Doong-ting. The mediaeval Kabalists give us in their
writings the key to its meaning.
"
Man is a little world inside the
1 lira Rabba. VI, p. 58.
THE SIX-POINTED AND FIVE-POINTED STARS 159
great universe," teaches Paracelsus.
" A microcosm, within the
macrocosm, like a foetus, he is suspended by his three principal
spirits in the matrix of the universe." These three spirits are
described as double : (1) The spirit of the Elements (terrestrial
body and vital principle) ; (2) the spirit of the stars (sidereal or
astral body and will governing
it)
;
(3) the spirits of the spiritual
world (the animal and the spiritual souls)
—the seventh principle
being an almost immaterial spirit or the divine Augoeides, Atma,
represented by the central point, which corresponds to the human
navel. This seventh principle
is
the Personal God of every man,
say the old Western and Eastern Occultists.
Therefore, the explanations given by our critic of the Shakton
and Panchkon, rather corroborate than destroy our theory. Speaking
of the five triangles composed of
"
five times five
" or 25 points, he
remarks of the pentagram that
it
is
a
"
number otherwise corre
sponding with the twenty-five elements making
a
living human
creature." Now we suppose that by
"
elements
"
the writer means
just what the Kabalists say when they teach that the emanations
of the 24 divine
"
unmanifested powers," the
"
unexisting
" or
"
Central Point "
being the 25th
—make a perfect human being
?
But in what other respect does the above sentence —without disput
ing upon the relative value of the words
"
element
" and
"
emana
tion
"—strengthened moreover as we find
it
by the author's addi
tional remark that
" the entire figure of the microcosm
.
.
.
the
inner world of individual living being ...
a
figure which
is
the sign
of Brahma, the deified creative energy
" —in what respect, we ask,
does
it
clash so much with our stating that some proficients (in
Hermetic philosophy) and Kabalists regard the five points of the
pentagram as representing the five cardinal limbs of the human
body
?
We are no ardent disciple or follower of the Western Kabalists;
yet, we maintain that in this they are right. If the twenty-five
elements represented by the five-pointed star, make up "a living
human creature
" then these elements are all vital, whether mental
or physical, and the figure symbolizing
"
creative energy
"
gives the
more force to the Kabalistic idea. Every one of the five gross
elements —earth, water, fire, air (or
" wind
")
and ether —enters into
the composition of man
;
and whether we say,
"
five organs of action
"
or the
"
five limbs
" or
"
yet the five senses,"
it
will always amount
to splitting hairs, for
it
means all one and the same thing. Most
undoubtedly the
"
proficients
" could explain, at least as satis
factorily their claim, as the writer controverts and denies
it,
by
explaining his. In the Codex Nazarceus —the most Kabalistic of
books, the Supreme King of Light and the chief iEon—Mano,
emanates the five jEons —he himself with the Lord Ferho — (the
"
unknown formless life
" of which he
is
an emanation) making up
i6o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the seven which typify again the seven principles in Man—the
five being purely material and semi-material, and the higher
two almost immaterial and spiritual (see
'
Fragments of Occult
Truth
').
Five refulgent rays of light proceed from each of the
seven ^Eons, five of these shooting through the head, the two
extended hands, and the two feet of Man represented in the five-
pointed star, one enveloping him as with a mist and the seventh
settling like
a
bright star over his head. The illustration may be
seen in several old books upon the Codex Nazaraus and the Kabala.
What wonder, that electricity or animal magnetism passing most
powerfully from the five cardinal limbs of man, and the phenomena
of what
is
now called
"
mesmeric
" force having been studied in the
temples of ancient Egypt and Greece and mastered as
it
may never
hope to be mastered in our age of idiotic and
a
priori denial, the old
Kabalists and philosophers who symbolized every power in nature,
should for reasons perfectly evident for those who know anything
of the arcane sciences and the mysterious relations which exist be
tween numbers, figures, and ideas, have chosen to represent "the
five cardinal limbs of man
"—the head, the two arms and the two
legs—in the five points of the pentagram
?
Eliphas Levi, the modern
Kabalist, goes as far,
if
not further than his ancient and mediaeval
brethren
;
for, he says in his Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie
(p. 175)
:
" The Kabalistic use of the pentagram can determine the
countenance of unborn infants, and an initiated woman might give
to her son the features of Nereus or Achilles, as those of Louis XV,
or Napoleon." The astral light of the Western occultists
is
the akasa
of the Hindus. Many of the latter will not study its mysterious
correlations, neither under the guidance of initiated Kabalists nor
that of their own initiated Brahmans, preferring to Prajna Paramita
—their own conceit. And yet both exist and are identical, the
idiotic and ignorant denials of
J.
K. the London
"
Adept
"
notwith
standing.
FOOTNOTES TO " THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE
ZODIAC "
"THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC."
By T. Subba Row, B.A., F.T.S.
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No.
2
(26), November, 1881, pp, 41-44.]
[Of the zodiacal sign Virgo
:]
Virgo-Scorpio, when none but the initiates knew there were
twelve signs. Virgo-Scorpio was then followed for the profane by
THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
" 161
Sagittarius. At the middle or junction-point where now stands
Libra, and at the sign now [so] called which follows Virgo, two
mystical signs were inserted which remained unintelligible to the
profane.
[Of the zodiacal sign, spoken of by Mr. Subba Row as the
Crocodile :]
This constellation was never called Crocodile by the Western
ancient astronomers who described it as a horned goat and called it
so—Capricornus .
[Of the principle which Mr. Subba Row calls the Jeevatma, and
which he says is represented by the sign Simham, or the Lion :]
In its lowest or most material state, as the life-principle which
animates the material bodies of the animal and vegetable worlds,
etc.
[Of Mr. Subba Row's statement that the sign Simham, or the Lion
also represents
"
the real Christ, the anointed pure spirit, though the
missionaries may frown at this interpretation
"
:]
Nevertheless it is a true one. The Jivatma in the Microcosm (man)
is the same spiritual essence which animates the Macrocosm (universe),
the differentiation, or specific difference between the two Jivatmas
presenting itself but in the two states or conditions of the same and
one Force. Hence,
"
this son of Paramatma
" is an eternal correla
tion of the Father-Cause, Purusha manifesting himself as Brahma of
the
"
golden egg
" and becoming Viradji—the universe. We are
" all born of Aditi from the water
"
(Hymns of the Maruts X, 63 2),
and
"
Being was born from not -being
"
(Rig-Veda, Mandala I,
Sukta 166).
[Of the Astral Light :]
Even the very name of Kanya (Virgin) shows how all the ancient
esoteric systems agreed in all their fundamental doctrines. The
Kabalists and the Hermetic philosophers call the Astral Light the
"
heavenly or celestial Virgin ". The Astral Light in its unity is the
7th. Hence the seven principles diffused in every unity, or the 6
and ONE—two triangles and a crown.
[Of Mr. Subba Row's statement that
"
Jeevatma differs from
Paramatma, or to state the same thing in other words, Baddha
differs from Mukta, in being encased as it were within these 36
Tatwams (Tattwas), while the other is free
"
:]
As the Infinite differs from the Finite and the Unconditioned from
the Conditioned.
L
162 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
[Of the 36 Tattwas :]
36 is three times 12, or 9 Tetraktis, or 12 Triads, the most sacred
numbers in the Kabalistic and Pythagorean numerals.
[Of the sign Makaram, or the Goat (Capricornus) :]
See the article
" The Five-Pointed Star ", [p. 64 of this volume],
where we stated that the five-pointed star or pentagram represented
the five limbs of man.
[Of the
" nine Prajapatis —the assistants of the Demiurgus
"
:]
The nine Kabalistic Sephiroths, emanated from Sephira the 10th,
and the head Sephiroth are identical. Three trinities or triads with
their emanative principle form the Pythagorean mystic Decad, the
sum of all which represents the whole Kosmos.
THE BRIGHT SPOT OF LIGHT
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 2 (26), November, 1881, pp. 45-46]
To the Editor of The Theosophist :
Madame, —In the last issue of your valuable Journal, a member of the
New York Theosophical Society seeks to be enlightened as to the cause of
a bright spot of light which he has often seen. I am also equally curious
to have an explanation. I attribute it to the highest concentration of the
soul. As soon as I place myself in that prescribed attitude, suddenly a
bright spot appears before me which fills my heart with delight, —indeed,
that being regarded as a special sign by the Indian devotee that he is in
the right path, leading to ultimate success in the Yoga practice—that he
is blessed by the special grace of the Almighty.
One evening, sitting on the ground cross-legged, in that state of innate
concentration when the soul soars into the high regions, I was blessed
with a shower of flowers—a most brilliant sight, and which I long to see
again. I moved to catch at flowers so rare, but they eluded my grasp
and suddenly disappeared, leaving me much disappointed. Finally two
flowers fell on me, one touching my head and the other my right shoulder,
but this time also the attempt to seize them was unsuccessful. What can
it be, if not a response that God has been pleased with his worshippers,
meditation being, I believe, the unique way of spiritual worship.
P.
September 18, 1881.
Editor's Note. —It depends. Those of our orthodox native contribu
tors, who worship some particular God, —or, if they so prefer, the
one iswar under some particular name —are too apt to attribute
every psychological effect brought on by mental concentration during
FOOTNOTE TO
"
ADVICE FROM A SWAMI "
163
the hours of religious meditation to their special deity, whereas,
in 99 cases out of 100, such effects are due simply to purely psycho
physiological effects. We know a number of mystically-inclined
people who see such
"
lights" as that so soon as they concentrate
their thoughts. Spiritualists attribute them to the agency of their
departed friends ; Buddhists —who have no personal God—to a
prenirvanic state ; pantheists and Vedantins to Maya —illusion of
senses ; and Christians —to a foresight of the glories of Paradise.
The modern Occultists say that, when not directly due to cerebral
action whose normal functions are certainly impeded by such an
artificial mode of deep concentration —these lights are glimpses of
the Astral Light, or, to use a more scientific expression —of the
"
Universal Ether
"
firmly believed in by more than one man of
science, as proved by Mr. Balfour Stewart's Unseen Universe. Like
the pure blue sky closely shrouded by thick vapours on a misty
day—is the Astral Light concealed from our physical senses, during
the hours of our normal, daily life. But when concentrating all our
spiritual faculties, we succeed, for the time being, to paralyse their
enemy —tne physical senses, and the inner man becomes, so to say,
distinct from the man of matter, then, the action of the ever-living
spirit, like a breeze that clears the sky from its obstructing clouds —
sweeps away the mist which lies between our normal vision and the
Astral Light, and, we obtain glimpses into, and of, that light.
The days of
"
smoking furnaces
"
and
"
burning lamps
"
which
form part of the Biblical visions are well gone by and—to return no
more. But, whosoever, refusing natural explanations, prefers
supernatural ones, is, of course, at liberty to imagine that an
"
Almighty God
"
amuses us with visions of flowers, and sends
burning lights before making
"
covenants
" with his worshippers.
FOOTNOTE TO " ADVICE FROM A SWAMI
"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 2 (26), November, 1881, p. 48]
[Commenting upon a statement in this article to the effect that
certain high stages of meditations bring man face to face with
"
the
Almighty, the Universal, the All- Knowing and the All-Glorious God,"
H. P. B. says :]
Who, whenever seen, will always prove to be a man's own deific
principle, his own luminous Atman, at best, and not God or Iswar,
who —as Well proved by Kapila—if Impersonal and Infinite cannot
be seen, and if Personal, hence finite, is not the
" universal
"
spirit.
164 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
DAYANAND SARASWATI AND HIS FOLLOWERS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 2 (26), Supplement, November,
1881, pp. 3-4.]
To the Editor of The Theosophist.
Madam : The following is a very important notice received from
Benares. Please publish it in your columns, and give your readers an
opportunity of judging thereby for themselves.
Yours very truly,
Pandit Gopi Nath,
Editor Mittra Vilasa.
"
Being led away by the misleading reputation of Swami Daya Nanda
Saraswatee, we, the undersigned, repaired to him to hear his Vedic
lectures and act according to his dictates. But no sooner had we heard
him than we became convinced that he was no true reformer. Our doubts
now having been removed by our Vedic Guru Pandit Jugulkishore Pathak,
a member of The Brahmamrit Varshini Sabha, we made penance, as
commanded in our Shastras, for this mistake and sin of ours, and we
hereby promise never to deviate from the true and just way taught by
our Guru.
"
Sita Rama, Babu Nand Pande, Krishna Rama Shukul and
Rama Prasda Dube."
True to our policy of perfect impartiality, to the promise that every
religion, sect, and school of philosophy, will be given a chance of a
fair hearing before the public, and the adherents permitted to defend
their respective opinions in our journal, we are forced to make room
for the above manifesto. But we do so with regret, for this is no
philosophical proof that the doctrines taught by the learned Pandit
in whose favour it is issued, namely—Pandit Jugulkishore Pathak
—are more philosophical, or in any way more true than those ex
pounded by Swami Dayanand Saraswati. As it stands, the declara
tion is simply the confession of a short-lived apostacy, and, a public
contrition in consequence of it. To-morrow the disciples of Swami
Dayanand may send us in their reply, and we would have to publish
it in our next on the same principle. If ever any good is calculated
to come out of such mutual denunciations, then, ought the two
learned pandits to furnish us, at least with papers pro and contra
their respective interpretations of the Vedas ; and so leave the
verdict to the opinion of the impartial readers. Otherwise such
denunciations are calculated to do more harm than good.
WESTERN *'
ADEPTS " AND EASTERN THEOSOPHISTS 165
WESTERN "
ADEPTS " AND EASTERN
THEOSOPHISTS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 2 (26), Supplement, November 1881,
pp. 4-6.]
Since the first appearance of the Occult Worldthe London Spiritual
ist undertook a series of regular weekly attacks upon it. On the
ground that Mr. Sinnett had never himself seen Koot Hoomi, the
existence of the latter was doubted. This doubt was followed by
the arbitrary hypothesis that no one else ever had seen him. Then,
when seven Theosophists (four natives of India and three Europeans)
had declared over their own signatures that they had seen our Brother,
a pretext for invalidating their testimony was immediately invented.
An objection, loosely grounded upon the fallacious and not very
delicate insinuation, that as no one in England knew whether the
lives and characters of the witnesses entitled their evidence to be
accepted without protest, a very small degree of confidence could be
placed upon it. Besides that, it was urged that as neither Mrs. A.
Gordon, nor Colonel Olcott had given their testimony,—the latter,
moreover, having never declared to have seen the
" Brothers
"—
the claim would receive no attention. Both of the above-named
persons have now sent in their evidence. It remains to be seen,
whether in the first place their letters will be published ; and if so,
what attempt will be made to discredit them.
Meanwhile, for over a period of three months, and week after
week, the Spiritualist never appeared without containing an attack
or two of more or less doubtful literary refinement upon the Theoso
phists in general, the Founders of the Society in particular, and Koot
Hoomi and Mme. Blavatsky —especially. At times, the epithets
to their address, and the peculiar phraseology characterizing them,
reached a degree of eminence that placed the Spiritualist —with
its hitherto immaculate columns which ought to be solely devoted to
the necrologies of distinguished disembodied angels —on a level
with the cheapest political daily of America, during the Presidential
elections. The editorial
"
passes
"
having been somewhat obstructed
by the seven avalanches of the Theosophical witnesses, the Spiritual
ist bethought itself of another expedient. When Italy had fallen
into impious doubt and infidelity, Pius IX resorted to the expedient
of being protected by foreign hirelings, and a body of
"
Papal
Zouaves
"
was duly organized. When the Editor of the Spiritualist
saw himself in danger of being floored by the accumulated testimony
to the existence of the
" Brothers
"—from India, he found out a
" Kabalist," and formed with him an alliance—offensive only ; as,
166 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
so far no one went to the trouble of attacking him. That Spiritualist
"
Zouave
"
was J. K., the mirific
"
adept
" and a
"
widow's son
"
to boot ; a—" Hiram Abiff," reared up and raised by an illustrious
grand-master—a
"
Hierophant of Western origin
" as J. K. himself
introduced him.
So far, so good. The Kabalistic arrows directed by J. K. against
the Theosophists, shooting over their heads, hurt no one but the
Spiritualist, whose columns were, for a time, filled with the pompous
self-glorifications of the Occult
" Sir Oracle." These articles
provoking homeric fits of laughter among those of the Anglo-Indians
who read them, were rather a treat than a nuisance. Had J. K.
proceeded in that strain, no one would have ever paid the slightest
attention to his harmless diatribes and, as stated in the October
Theosophist, that would have been the first and the last time that
we would have noticed him in our columns. But the alleged
"
adept
"
has now resorted to personalities. Forgetting that the
"
Theoso
phists
" of Bombay are private and non-professional characters who
neither sell quack medicines for a livelihood, nor advertise
"
Magne
tism classes at one guinea for the course, or 5s. a lesson," he permits
himself to speak of better people than himself in a deprecatory tone
which, at best, might be assumed only by a regular proficient in the
Occult art and knowledge, recognized as such the world over.
To make use of such phrases as—"
Madame Blavatsky —evidently
knows nothing of our art, (!?) I (!?) do not hesitate to state (of course,
how should a Kabalist of his
"
calibre
"
hesitate at anything ?) that
the voluminous work (Isis Unveiled) is a thoroughly misleading
one . . she has not grasped the right meaning
"
. . etc., etc. ;—
the critic must have proved himself as great as Paracelsus or, at
the least, as wise as the
"
Hierophant
" who initiated him.
Instead of that, what do we find ? Who is that J. K. who like his
En-soph is ever
"
speaking of himself, to himself, and through him
self ?
" Since he did not hesitate to name Mme. Blavatsky and tried
to show her so inferior to himself, we do not see why we should feel
the slightest scruple to lift up the
" brazen mask
"
which shrouds
the face of the Kabalistic beau domino. We declare then in our turn,
proofs in hand, that M. Julius Kohn is a very conceited, vain, young
gentleman, who, hardly weaned from the A.B.C. of Occultism,
puts on the airs of a mysterious grand adept —dextro tempore, writes
pretentious articles under the safe cover of two initials, and so
obtains a public hearing under false pretences. There is no Kabalistic
organ, and even the third-class London Weeklies would throw his
articles in the waste-basket, had he offered them. What better
opportunity, then, taking advantage of the ill-feeling of the Spiritual
ists toward the Theosophists to get room in a journal wherein to
ventilate his vagaries ? Hence his articles in the Spiritualist, and
WESTERN
"
ADEPTS " AND EASTERN THEOSOPHISTS 167
the declarations that there are no spirits in nature other than
human spirits ; and the magisterial, ridiculous verdict
" If the
Theosophists study the elementals, they study only undeveloped
human spirits."
" The disciple is not above his master ... it is enough for the
disciple that he be as his master and the servant as his lord
"
;
reads verse 24, Chap, x of Matthew. Hence Julius Kohn has either
to abide by his
" Lord and Master's
" decision, or maintain that he
is above his
"
hierophant," adding, moreover that his Initiator of
" Western origin
"
(so designated by him, we suppose, in contra
distinction to his own which is Eastern) does not know what he is
talking about. Whatever our
"
adept
"
may say in his excuse in
the future, that is the interesting information that the said Master
(whose full name, if he would like to see it published, we are as
ready to give, as we gave his own)
—gives about his disciple, of whom
otherwise, Mr. W seems to be very proud :
— "
M. Kohn "
he
tells a friend
" has been under my direct guidance for several years
and went on reading in all languages every Kabalistical work to be
purchased here and in Germany . . . but he does not go in for
Astrology to any extent. He has not yet made his entrance into the
adytum ; but his intuitions are working up and he gets very lucid
glimpses of things by times. His dreams are getting very interestingly
spiritual. . . . But he eschews mediumship. Although he has not
yet confronted the
'
Red Elixir,' (i.e. made the perfect junction of
the soul with the spirit) . . yet he is on the fair way of it, for
'
of that
day and hour knoweth no man
'
. . ."
Quite so. No one knoweth of it, no more the master than the
disciple, we see. We have good reasons to believe that the former
will not take the risk of denying his own words, so religiously quoted
by us, as in the contrary case, we might add to it some other trifling
particulars, which we will abstain from mentioning at present. We
do not know that gentleman personally, and we might have perchance
more respect for him, if we did have that honour, than we are likely
to ever entertain for his pupil. We have proved the essential points,
and that suffices for our purposes. On the authority of the person,
more likely to exaggerate the achievements of his disciple than to
lower them in the world's estimation we are informed, (1) that J. K.
"
has not yet made his entrance into the adytum," —which amounts
to confessing before any one who knows anything of Hermetic
phraseology, that his pupil knows nothing yet of the essential, final,
and higher mysteries, evolving, meanwhile, his
"
involitional soul
"
out of the allegorical interpretations of his "interesting dreams,"
during the wow-lucid interludes between his
" intuitional
" lucid
glimpses of things
"
; (2) that J. K. "
eschews mediumship," having,
as we were told in one of his articles, his own notions about
"
spirits,"
168 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
i.e., in every case as heretical as those of the theosophists, only per
chance, less correct. (N.B. the Editor of the Spiritualist thus
seeming to be warming a viper in his bosom) ; and — (3) not having
yet
"
confronted the Red Elixir," namely, having never succeeded
so far, in uniting his spirit with his soul, which alone makes the adept
for a time a divine being existing in the region of absolute wisdom,
J. Kohn is but an humble chela1 in the school of magic, and no
"
adept
" at all, as he would like to have us believe.
It is this dabbler in occultism, who, in his pretentious, bombastic
style, so full of audacious conceit, speaks of such adepts as were the
old Indian Rishis, of the authors of such philosophies as the Vedas,
the Vedanta and the Sankhya, of such men as our Brother Koot
Hoomi, as if they knew nothing worth knowing I To show his own
ignorance, —Oh, shadows of Kapila and Patahjali !—J. K. calls
" Akasa
"—a figment II. If readers would only believe him :
"
Taking erroneously some esoteric sentences from Paracelsus in
their literal wording, the late Abbe" Alphonse Louis Constant (Eliphas
L6vi), or the man who wrote his books on Magic, invented (?!) out
of the sidereal influence of Paracelsus an objective astral light, and
theorised thereon that the great work of adeptship is to subjugate
and direct this force. Combine therewith
"
he adds "a practice of
bullying the elementals in all the four kingdoms, and you are,
according to Eliphas LeVi, an accomplished master-magician."
Combine with ignorance, a practice of bullying all those who
differ from you, especially those who refuse to recognize in M. Julius
Kohn anything higher than a "figment-adept" and, you are,
according to J. K, " an accomplished master magician."
And now to the truthfulness and reliability of his criticisms upon
Isis.
" In Paracelsus," he says,
" as in all other Kabalists, the letter
is for the uninitiated, the spirit for the initiated. The medicsval
adepts were, by the age they lived in, compelled to hide their knowledge
from the church." (What wondrous news. The first revelation of \
a truth which every school-boy knows.)
"
They used, therefore, a
veiled language, and physical symbols stood for purely spiritual
things. The author of Isis seems to have overlooked this," adds our
learned adversary. Well, the
" author of Isis " did nothing of the
kind, however. On the other hand, the author of *
The Adeptship of
Jesus Christ
'
must have never done more than skip Isis, if he over
looked the fact that both its volumes are full of references and
explanations as to the
" veiled language
" of the Kabalists, Christian
as well as Pagan—the former dreading to divulge their meaning on
account of the persecution of the Church, the latter owing to the
terror of the
" initiation oath
"
pronounced during the
"
mysteries."
That J. K. only pretends to have overlooked the fact is still more
1
The disciple of a Yogi.
WESTERN
"
ADEPTS " AND EASTERN THEOSOPHISTS 169
likely. However it may be, the whole work is an exposition of that
which the London
"
adept
"
tries to teach, but makes a sad mess of.
Nor was the author of Isis, ever unaware of the well-known fact, that
most (not all) of the physical symbols stand
"
for purely spiritual
things." Whoever has read Isis will see how reliable are J. K.'s
criticisms.
"
Elemental spirits," the critic goes on,
" are not creatures evolved
in earth, air, fire or water. There are no doubt spirits who prefer
to dwell in one of the said elements, but they are human
(!)
The method
ordinarily resorted to for entering into communication with
Elementals by offering them some favourite food, shows that they are
simply not very advanced human spirits." The last argument
is
charmingly logical, and worthy of the
"
literary calibre
" of
a
great
"
adept." Just as
if
only human beings ate food, and men and their
spirits alone could be offered
" some favourite food
I
" The Elemen
tals are all
" human
"
he maintains. And what are the
" Shedim "
of his Jewish Kabalists
?
What of Robert Fludd—the grand master
of the mediaeval
" Fire "
philosophers, who were the greatest Kaba
lists living —who says that as there are an infinity of visible human
creatures, so there
is
an endless variety of now-human beings among
the spirits of the elements
?
And what of the endless variety of
the
"
Demons
" of Proclus, Porphyry, Iamblichus, and of the
" Nature Spirits
?
"
. .
.
Verily,
it
requires
a
very small amount
of intelligence in
a
critic to write —" let
'
The Church,' so-called, go
to the Devil of her own creation,"1 or again —"
Theosophy
is
Diabolo-
sophy . .
.
which gets but the Sophistries of His Satanic Majesty
"
;
but
it
requires
a
good deal of wisdom which cannot be imparted by
any
"
Hierophant
" to understand true Theosophy.
It
is
as easy for
a
cabman as for M. Kohn, to utter words of abuse
;
and the former
is
as free to point out the Royal Society as
a
gin-shop, adding that
all its Fellows assemble there but to get drunk with liquor, as for
the adept to call Theosophy
"
Diabolosophy." Both can do so with
perfect impunity. For, no more than the said cabman will ever get
admitted within the sacred precincts of learning, can
a
man using
such
a
language hope of ever entering within the circle of true
Theosophy, or—"
confront the Red Elixir."
The real gist, the pith of the stuff of which all
J.
K.'s articles are
made up,
is
explained by the following
:
Notwithstanding all his
self-glorification of
"
adeptship
" neither the
"
adept
" nor even his
"
hierophant
" whom we know better than both may imagine, would
be able to produce the slightest phenomenon at will
;
even of that
kind which incipient mediums and sensitive children often produce,
say, raps upon the table without contact. Hence his diatribes against
1
J.
K.'s article, "
The Adeptship of Jesus Christ," in Medium and Daybreak,
September 2, 1881,
p.
556.
?70 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the phenomena described in the Occult World ; his bombastic and
long-winded prattle about the powers of adeptship being
"
only
purely spiritual." It is so easy and it offers such secure ground to
assume
"
powers
"
which have to remain, on the said principle, for
ever theoretical. But it becomes rather more dangerous for him to
declare that "when Koot Hoomi is alleged to say repeatedly :
'
The
adept is the rare efflorescence of a generation of enquirers,' he venti
lates this idea purely to bring recruits to the Theosophical Society."
It is dangerous, we say, for besides being a glaring falsehood and
a calumny, the disciples o*f Koot Hoomi might easily retort to
M. Julius Kohn and ask : And what may be the secret meaning of
this sentence of yours which directly follows the preceding ?
" Who
ever attempts to arrive at Divine power by diabolic means labours in
a most deplorable delusion. Anaesthetics and drugs should never
be experimented with. Also with the practice of organic mesmerism
must be united great care not to abuse the power, combined with an
uncompromisingly pure life."
If the
"
adept
" refuses to inform the readers of the real occult
meaning of the above, we will. Combined with other, very frequent
allusions in his verbose articles—we may just call them sub rosa
advertisements1 —it is meant to call the attention of the reader to
certain wonderful books on mesmerism, in close relation with
professional
"
classes of magnetism
" at 3 and 1 guinea the course.
The said occult meaning is simply
" to bring recruits
" within the
fold of the happy magneto- Kabalistic trimurti ; that triad we mean,
well-known to the Theosophists in London, which under three
different names represents in reality but two, if not one, and ought
to bear in any case the name of the
"
Hierophant
"
though it does sail
under a triple compound name which is no longer its own. We are
sorry to say even so much of persons with whom we are not in the
least concerned. But we sincerely think it a kindness to Mr. W
the
"
Hierophant," who, as we are told, is a man of sense and learning,
to let him know that his pupil is sorely compromising him. Let him
then use his occult powers to force upon his too indiscreet disciple—
(a) that he who lives in a glass-house ought never to throw stones
at that of his neighbour ; and
(b)
that he should not exhibit his
ignorance in such a flagrant manner, by speaking of the doctrines
of Gautama Buddha, as
if
he knew, or could know anything of His
1
Such advertisements, for instance, as this one we find inserted in his article
"
upon the Adeptship of Jesus Christ."
"
The following extracts from the third
edition of Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt's excellent and most valuable Private Instruc
tions on Organic Magnetism, will give a scientific description of the Soul-Power, and
the means to attain thereto
:
"—Follows the
"
scientific description
" in which Jesus
Christ
is
honoured with the title of
"
Red magician." Further on,
J.
K. recommends
once more
"
the acquisition of the invaluable work just quoted, while those who
are by locality favoured, should not fail to get personal instruction." Now this we
call searching for
"
recruits
"
with an unparalleled zeal.
WESTERN
"
ADEPTS " AND EASTERN THEOSOPHISTS 171
esoteric doctrines ! Hear him jabbering about Sakya-Muni, and
dogmatizing right and left in the following strain :
"
Whatever the
sapient critics and bookmakers do not understand, they label with a
false name and think that thereby they have explained it." Just
M. J. Kohn's position, who pretends to explain all that he knows
nothing about.
"
If the books of Philo and John are productions
of Neo-Platonists, then, the teachings of Gautama Buddha, which
contain the same doctrine, only in other wording, must also be
Neo-Platonism." (" The Adeptship of Jesus Christ.")
So immeasurably arrogant and vain of his supposed learning is
M. J. Kohn that he actually insinuates in the above his thorough
knowledge of the secret meaning of the doctrines taught by Gautama
Buddha I We advise him to limit his revelations to the Jewish
Kabala, as his superficial comprehension of it may yet throw, with
an appearance of some reason, glamour in the eyes of the too confiding
reader innocent of any great proficiency in the Kabalistic lore. But
will he have the additional effrontery to maintain or even to insinuate
that he understands better the Buddhistic
" Rahat
" doctrine than
the most learned Buddhist priests, of whom we have such a number
among the Fellows of the Theosophical Society at Ceylon, Burmah
and Tibet ? We should not wonder. The too Kabalistic
"
J. K."
winds up the article under review with the following words of wisdom :
" The errors here set forth appear in the text books of the
Theosophists. If I have said hard things of the Theosophical
Society, / mean the Society exclusive of the Western members who
I believe are all Intelligent and amiable individuals as such I
esteem them, but not as Theosophists. . . ."
How occult and pompous, yet how transparently clear. Let
M. Julius Kohn give up, however, the sweet illusion that he, or any
adept of his sort, is capable of saying
" hard things
" whether of the
Theosophical Society or of its members. He has ventilated quite
a number of
"
impertinent
"
things, but this affords rather merriment
than inflicts pain upon those who know how far he deserves the self-
imposed title of
"
adeptship." By
"
the Society, exclusive of the
Western members," he means the Parent Society, now in India, of
course ; and, he is kind enough to believe our
"
Western members
. . . intelligent, and amiable individuals" — (read enthusiastic but
amiable fools)
—and thus closes his denunciatory article with another
untruth. For, we happen also to know, how his
" dreams
" and
occasional
"
glimpses of things
"
bring him to see intuitively through
the fallacies of such writers as
"
one of the most prominent of the
British Theosophists, who will remain unnamed." And, we are also
aware of the contempt with which he speaks of many of these
" intelligent and amiable individuals." If he flatters them in his
172 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
article at all, it is because these individuals, living in London and
some of them receiving him at their houses, he has sense enough to
avoid irritating them too unnecessarily. At the same time the
"
Eastern
"
Theosophists are far away in India, and, as he thinks,
can know nothing of him, his "spiritual dreams
"
having failed to re
veal to him that they did know something —M. J. Kohn's
"
adeptship"
as will be seen, excluding neither cunning, nor yet an eye to business.
Nevertheless, we owe him a debt of gratitude for enlightening
us as to the various colours of the many various kinds of magicians.
" The White Magician," he writes, quoting enthusiastically from a
"
gifted Lady magnetist's
" work (the legitimate wife, we are told,
of his
"
Hierophant-Initiator," though we never heard yet of a
practising Hierophant Magician who was married)
—"
the white
Magician is a high form of Adeptship, and few there are who reach it ;
fewer still who become Red Magicians. The difference between the
former and the latter is, that the senses and the world possess certain
temptations for the White Magician, which he sees and feels though
he conquers. But nothing can tempt the Red Magician to evil any
more than God can be tempted. The passive White Magician is
to be found in the Religieuse
"
(? ! ! nuns ?) . . . and
" Black
Magic is (in part) the art of applying the science of Magnetism to
the obtaining of worldly riches, and to the influencing of persons
to obey your Will, with results injurious to themselves. This part
of the art I do not teach."
We should say not. Even in this our century of scepticism it
would not be quite safe to advertise
"
classes
" for imparting the
Black Art. However, although modestly withholding from his
reader's knowledge his own particular shade, we suggest the hypo
thesis of a colour that might be correctly termed —"
chameleonic."
His published lucubrations warranting, and his alleged abstinence
from wine1 forbidding us to accept the theory offered by one of our
French Occultists who, writing about
"
J. K." says of him—" Le
magicien est gris," we can find no better nuance for him than the
indefinite iridescence of the chameleon, that pretty animal reflect
ing every colour it approaches.
And now to close. The Theosophists
"
exclusive of the Western
members," hope that their learned critic will henceforth direct his
1 It is not enough for a
"
hierophant
"
or an
"
adept
"
to abstain from wine and
liquor ; he must avoid leading others into temptation, if he cares to deserve the glorious
name. We would then put the following question to those, who, denying our Eastern
Brotherhood, accept as
"
hierophants
"
and
"
adepts
"
persons having no right to
the appellation : what man, acquainted but with the A.B.C. of Occult sciences,
would dare maintain that even a simple pupil —let alone an adept in Occultism —
would, while pursuing the divine science, at the same time obtain and hold a patent
for the invention of a distilling apparatus for the manufacture of an improved whisky 1 1
Imagine a modern Paracelsus or Jacob Boehme, proprietor of a dram shop and
erecting distilleries in London and Ireland I Truly our age is an Age of Brass.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES 173
sole attention to the grand revelation he gives the world upon the
"
Adeptship of Jesus Christ
"—the Red Magician, and leave the
Theosophists —Western and Eastern —strictly alone. For, although
the amount of incomprehensible metaphysical twaddle and quite
unhistorical statements1 contained in it, almost preclude the pos
sibility of anything like an elaborate criticism upon it—yet they
might find a word or two to say on the advertising portions of the
mystical paper. Having, as mentioned elsewhere, in his powerful
Kabalistic phraseology, sent the Christian
"
Church to the Devil
"
and Theosophists along with it, let M. Julius Kohn rest on his
laurels, as it behoves a Christian Kabalist —the latter appellation
being applied to him on the authority of his own words.
"
When
ever demanded," he writes (Spiritualist, September 9),
"
whether I
know a special process whereby to acquire magic power, whereto my
reply ever is
'
beyond the Christ -life there is nothing . . .'
"—this
particular
"
Christ-life
" nota bene to be studied according to his,
M. J. Kohn's interpretations, never as taught by "the Devil's
Official Church
"
[sic] as he elegantly puts it. We are, however,
glad to learn from the above that this promising mystic is a convert
to Christ, as that news is calculated to save his "adeptship of Jesus
Christ
" from more than one scathing criticism. For, viewing the
production with a thoroughly unbiased eye, who should, or could
ever know more about the
"
magical powers
" of Christ than the
direct lineal descendant of those who insulted Jesus in Jerusalem by
saying : "He casteth out devils through the prince of devils ?
"
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES
[The Tkeosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, p. 55]
Magna est Veritas et prevalebit. The reality of the phenomena has
prevailed, and the Church is now forced to seek alliance with the
Spiritualists against
"
materialism and infidelity." How will the
faithful Christian
"
sceptics
"
receive the news, and what effect it
will produce on the church-going
"
scoffers of spiritual phenomena
"
is a question which time alone can answer.
For the first time, since the "raps" and
"
knockings
"
of an
alleged disembodied pedlar, at Rochester, in 1848, inaugurated the
era of Spiritualism, which has gradually led the people to accept the
hypothesis of disincarnated spirits communicating with the world of
life, the divines have become alive to the danger of dogmatizing too
1 For instance, when he writes :—" And, down to the present time, official priests
take fermented wine—which is an impure intoxicant, and from which Jesus ab
stained all His life,"—what is it but an arbitrary, foolish statement, founded on no
authority, that the author could point out, except his own lucubrations ?
174 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
strongly. For the first time, as the reader may see in the long
account of the Congress we reprint further on, the divines
seem ready for any concession —even to giving up their hitherto
immovable and cherished dogma of eternal torments and damna
tion. And now they seek to compromise. While Dr. Thomas, the
liberal-minded Wesleyan minister in America, is brought on his
trial before a Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church (as so
many other clergymen have been of late before him), for the same
heresy of denying endless torments in hell-fire, the English divines
are seriously discussing the advisability of giving the doctrine up.
They are ready, they say, to
"
thankfully acknowledge the truths of
Spiritualist teaching, as weapons which we (they) are too glad to
wield against Positivism, and Secularism, and all the anti-Christian
'
isms
'
of this age of godless thought." (Rev. R. Thornton's speech.)
Mirabile dictu !—the reverend gentleman went so far as to say :
"
Let us lay to heart the hints given (by Spiritualists) as to our own
shortcomings
"
! !
The extracts from the reports of the Congress which we here
republish from Light will give the reader a better idea of the position
of the Protestant clergy in England. It is evidently very precarious.
The divines seem to find themselves most uncomfortably situated
between the horns of a dilemma. How they will emerge from it is
one problem ; whether many Spiritualists are likely to succumb to
the unexpected coquetry of the Church they have parted company
with is another one—and of a still more difficult solution. If, en
disespoir de cause the reverends finally accept the theory of spirits—
and we do not see how the reconciliation could be otherwise effected
—then, acting upon the rule : "every spirit that confesseth not
Jesus Christ came in the flesh is not of God
"—they will have with
the exception of a handful of
"
spirits
" acting through a handful of
so-called
"
Christian Spiritualists," or rather their mediums who
accept Jesus Christ —to pronounce the enormous majority of the
"
angels
"
who do not, as—"
of the Devil ?
" Then, they will have
to encounter a still greater difficulty. Even the Christian Spiritual
ists have their own peculiar views upon Christ, which, according to
the canons of the established Church are
" heretical," but which, we
doubt, the Spiritualists will ever give up. Then again, how about —
"
Though an angel from Heaven preach unto us any other Gospel
than that which has been preached unto us, let him be accursed
" ?
Well, time will show, and time is the only and best inspirer of wise
schemes and devices. Meanwhile, the Spiritualists, —and so far the
Theosophists along with them—have won the day, for the reality of
the phenomena has been admitted at the Church Congress ; and we
have as good hopes, that, whatever happens, it is neither the Spiritual
ists nor the Theosophists who will be the conquered in the long
SUPERSTITION 175
run. For, divided as we may be in our conflicting beliefs as to the
agency of the phenomena, we are at one as regards the reality of
the manifestations, mediumship in all its various aspects,1 and the
highest phases of Spiritualism such as personal inspiration, clair
voyance, etc., and even the subjective intercourse between the living
and the disembodied souls and spirits under conditions fully
defined in Part I. of
"
Fragments of Occult Truth." At all events,
there is a far lesser abyss between the Spiritualists and the Theo-
sophists than there is between the Protestants and the Roman
Catholic clergy, their common Christianity notwithstanding. Their
house is one and, divided against itself, it must finally fall : while
our houses are two. And if we are wise and, instead of quarrelling,
support each other, both will be found built on a rock, the found
ation being the same though the architecture be different.
FOOTNOTE TO " THE CHURCH CONGRESS AND
SPIRITUALISM "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881,
pp. 56-60]
[In an account of certain spiritualistic phenomena, there occurs
the following passage :
" The Spirit came up to him and declared
most emphatically that it was his brother. Very happily he had not
lost a brother. In pursuance of a little plot he had arranged, he
squirted over the Spirit some liquid cochineal. ... At the close of
the seance they found that the medium was covered with liquid
cochineal. This proved that the Spirit and the medium were one and
the same person." H. P. B. says :]
It proves nothing of the kind ; but simply, that the
" animal
soul
"
or the Kama-rupa, the living inner man of the medium has
more to do with the
"
materializations
"
than the spirits of
" dead
"
men.
SUPERSTITION
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 60-62]
Owing to the fanciful reports of superficial and prejudiced
travellers, to their entire ignorance of Asiatic religions and—very
often their own—Western nations generally are labouring under the
strange impression that no people in the world are so stupidly
1 We never denied mediumship, we have only pointed out its great dangers and
questioned the advisability of giving way to it and to the control of yet (to Spiritua
lists) unknown forces.
176 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
superstitious as the non-Christian populations of India, China and
other
"
heathen
" countries. Unblessed with the light of the Gospel,
they say, these poor pagans groping in the dark, attribute mys
terious powers to the most unseemly objects : they will stake the
future happiness or woe of their father's soul, upon the hopping
crow's accepting or rejecting the rice-ball of the
"
Shraddha
"
ceremony ; and will believe, as the now famous Kolhapur con
spirators did, that
"
owls' eyes
" worn as an amulet will make the
bearer invulnerable. Agreed :—all such superstitions are as de
grading as they are ridiculous and absurd. . . .
But greatly mistaken, or as grossly unjust is he who affirms that
such strange beliefs are limited to paganism, or that they are the
direct result of the heathen religions alone. They are international ;
the cumulative production and necessary effect of countless genera
tions of the arts of an unconscientious clergy of every religion and in
every age. Adopted by the archaic priestly hierarchies, the policy
of subjecting the ignorant masses, by working on their untutored
imaginations and credulous fears, with the object of getting at their
purse via the soul, was found effectual and was universally practised
by the priest upon the layman from the first dawn of history down to
our own modern times. Everything in nature, whether abstract or
concrete, has two sides to it as every poison must have its antidote
somewhere. Religion or belief in an invisible world being based upon
a dual principle —God and Satan, or good and evil, if philosophy
—the outflow of true religious feeling —may be likened to a filtered
stream, on the other hand, superstition is the cloaca of all dogmatic
creeds that are based upon blind faith. Literally speaking, it is
the sewer carrying off the putrid waters of the Chaldeo-Noachian
deluge. Unstemmed, it ran in a straight course, through Paganism,
Judaism and Christianism alike, catching up with its current all the
garbage of human dead-letter interpretations ; while on its muddy
banks have crowded the priesthood of all times and creeds and
offered its unwholesome waters to the adoration of the credulous
as the "holy stream," —calling it now Ganges, anon the Nile or
Jordan.
Why then, should the Western people accuse the non-Christian
nations alone of such beliefs ? Little does the
" truth of God
"
abound through such lies, and it is showing poor respect to one's
religion to introduce it to the stranger's notice under false pretences.
History shows us that, while seemingly occupied in destroying
every trace of heathenism, and condemning belief in ancient folk-lore
and the effects of
"
charms
" as the work of the devil, the Christian
proselytizers became the keepers of all such superstitions, and,
adopting them gradually, let them loose again upon the people,
but under other names. It is useless for us to repeat that which was
SUPERSTITION 177
said, and better said, and proved by the statistical records of crimes
perpetrated through superstition, in every Christian country.
Beliefs of the grossest, as the most dangerous, character are rife in
Catholic France, Spain, Italy and Ireland, in Protestant England,
Germany and Scandinavia, as in Greek Russia, Bulgaria and other
Slavonian lands, and they are as alive among the people now, as
they were in the days of King Arthur, of the first Popes, or the
Varyago-Russian Grand Dukes. If the higher and middle classes
have civilized themselves out of such absurd fancies, the masses of
rural populations have not. The lower classes being left to the tender
mercies of the rural priest—who, when he was not himself ignorant,
was ever cunningly alive to the importance of his holding the
parishioner in mental slavery,—they believe in charms and incanta
tions and the powers of the devil now, as much as they did then. And,
so long as belief in Satan and his legion of fallen angels (now devils)
remains a dogma of the Christian Church—and we do not see how it
could be eliminated, since it is the corner-stone of the doctrine of
(now devil) salvation —so long will there exist such degrading
superstitions, for the whole superstructure of the latter is based upon
this belief in the mighty rival of the Deity.
There hardly comes out one number of our journal without
containing some proof of what we say. Only last year from sixty to
a hundred persons of both sexes were tried in Russia for arbitrarily
burning alleged sorcerers and witches, who were supposed to have
spoiled some hysterical women. The trial lasted for months and
disclosed a ghastly list of crimes of the most revolting nature. Yet
the peasants were acquitted for they were found irresponsible. For
once justice had triumphed in Russia over the dead-letter law. And
now, there comes news of the effect of the same superstition of a
still deadlier character. The following will read like a mediaeval
tale during the days of the
"
Holy
"
Inquisition. The Russian
Courier contains an official report from Tchembar (Government of
Penza) to the governor of the province, which we will summarize
thus :
At the end of December last, during Christmas time, the village
of Balkasheme became the theatre of a horrid and an unheard-of
crime, caused by a superstitious belief. A land-owner, N. M.,
inherited a very large property and went just before Christmas-day
to receive it at Penza. The inhabitants of the village—one of the
many struck this year with famine —are generally poor ; and two
of the poorest and the hungriest of them resolved upon robbing
the land-owner during his absence. Unwilling though to pay the
penalty for their crime, they went first to a village Znaharka (literally
a knowing one," a witch). In a Russian village where the witch is
as indispensable as the smith and public house, or an astrologer in a
M
178 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
village of India, these professions multiply in proportion to the
wealth and demands of each locality. So our two future burglars
consulted the
" sorceress
" as to the best way of effecting the
robbery and avoiding detection at the same time. The witch advised
them to kill a man, and cutting out the epiploon from under the stomach,
to melt
it,
and preparing
of
it
a candle, light the latter and, entering
the house
of
the landlord, plunder
it
at their ease
:
by
the enchanted
light
of
that human candle they would remain invisible to all. Following
out the advice literally, the two peasants sallied forth from their
huts at
2
after midnight, and meeting on their way
a
half-drunken
wretch,
a
neighbour of theirs, just leaving the public house, they
killed him and cutting out his epiploon buried him in the snow near
a
cowshed. On the third day of the murder, the corpse was dug
out by the dogs, and an inquest appointed.
A
large number of peas
ants was arrested, and, during the search of the village-houses for
proofs,
a
pot full of melted fat was discovered, an analysis of whose
contents was made, and the substance proved to be human fat. The
culprit confessed and giving out his accomplice, both confessed their
object
.
They pleaded guilty, but said they had acted upon the advice
of the witch, whose name, though, they would divulge upon no
consideration, dreading the revenge of the sorceress far more than
human justice. The fact
is
the more remarkable as both the
murderers had been hitherto regarded as two poor but steady, sober,
and very honest young men.
It
seems next ot impossible to find out
which one of the neighbouring
"
witches
"—for there are many and
some are never known but to their
"
clients
"—
is
guilty of the
murderous advice. Nor
is
there any chance of getting at any clue
from the villagers, as the most respectable among them would never
consent to incur the displeasure of one of these devil's familiars.
We believe, indeed, having
a
right to say, that the above superstition
leaves far behind it, in criminality, the comparatively innocent
belief of the Kolhapur conspirators in the efficacy of the "owls'
eyes."
Another recent case
is
that of an
"
enchanter." During the month
of the same December last, the village-council of Aleksandrofsk
voted the expulsion from their midst and forcible exile to Siberia
of
a
wealthy peasant name Rodinin. The accusation showing the
defender guilty
" of the great crime of being thoroughly versed in
the science of enchantments and the art of causing people to be pos
sessed by Satan," having been read, the verdict of the jury was
found unanimous.
" As soon," states the Accusation Act, " as the
defendant Rodinin approaches one, especially
if
any person accepts
a
glass of brandy from him, he becomes possessed on the spot.
.
.
.
Instantly the victim begins to howl, complaining that he feels like
a
river of liquid fire inside him, and piteously assures those present
SUPERSTITION 179
that Satan tears his bowels into shreds. . . . From that moment
he knows no rest, either by day or by night, and soon dies a death
of terrific agony. Numerous are the victims of such wicked enchant
ments perpetrated by the defendant. ... In consequence of which,
the local jury having found him
'
guilty,' the authorities are respect
fully requested to do their bound duty." The
"
bound duty
"
was
to parcel Rodinin off to Siberia, and so they did.
Every one in the West knows of the popular and universal belief
—prevailing both in Germany and Russia—about the miraculous
power of a certain three-leaved fern when culled at midnight on
St. John's day in a solitary wood. Called out by an incantation to
the evil one, the blade of grass begins growing at the end of the
first verse and is grown by the time the last one is pronounced. If
unappalled by the terrific sights taking place around him—and they
are unsurpassed in horror —the experimenter heeds them not, but
remains undismayed by the shoutings of the
"
forest imps
"
and
their efforts to make him fail in his design, he is rewarded by getting
possession of the plant which gives him power during his life-time
over the devil and forces the latter to serve him.
This is faith in Satan and his power. Can we blame the ignorant
or even the educated yet pious persons for such a belief ? Does not
the Church —whether Catholic, Protestant, or Greek—not only
inculcate in us, from our earliest age, but actually demand such a
belief ? Is it not the sine qua non of Christianity ? Aye, will people
answer ; but the Church condemns us for any such intercourse with
the Father of Evil. The Church wants us to believe in the devil,
but to despise and
"
renounce
" him at the same time ; and alone,
through her legal representatives, she has a right to deal with his
hoary majesty and enter into direct relations with him, thereby
glorifying God and showing the laymen the great power she has
received of the Deity of controlling the Devil in the name of Christ,
which she never succeeds in doing, however. She fails to prove it ;
but it is not generally that which is the best proved that is the most
believed in. The strongest proof the Church ever gave of the
objectivity of Hell and Satan, was during the Middle Ages when the
Holy Inquisition was appointed by Divine right, the agency of
kindling hell-fire on earth and burning heretics in it. With laudable
impartiality she burned alike those who disbelieved in hell and the
devil, as those who believed too much in the power of the latter.
Then the logic of these poor credulous people who believe in the
possibility of
"
miracles
" at all, is not quite faulty either. Made to
believe in God and the Devil, and seeing that evil prevails on earth,
they can hardly avoid thinking that it is good proof that Satan has
the upper hand in his eternal struggle with the Deity. And if so —
his power then and alliance are not to be scorned. Torments in hell
i8o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
are far off, and misery, suffering, and starvation are the doom of
millions. Since God seems to neglect them, they will turn to the
other power. If a
"
leaf
"
is endowed with miraculous powers by
God in one instance, why should not a leaf be as useful when it is
grown under the direct supervision of the Devil ? And then do not
we read of innumerable legends, where sinners, having made a pact
with the Devil, have dishonestly cheated him out of the souls
toward the end, by placing themselves under the protection of some
Saint, repenting, and calling upon "atonement
"
at the last moment ?
The two murderers of Tchembar, while confessing their crime,
distinctly stated that as soon as their families would have been
provided for through their burglary, they meant to go into a monas
tery and taking the
"
holy orders, repent ! I
" And
if,
finally, we
view as gross, degrading superstition, belief in the one leaf, why
should the State, Society, and hardly
a
century ago —law, have
punished for disbelieving in the Church miracles
?
Here
is
a
fresh
instance of
a
"
miracle "-working leaf just clipped out of the
Catholic Mirror. We commend
it
for comparison, and then perhaps
our readers will be more merciful to the superstitions of the "poor
heathen
"
unblessed with the knowledge of, and belief in Christ.
A
MIRACLE-WORKING LEAF
Father Ignatius, who
is
at present preaching
a
mission at Sheffield,
furnishes the following account of a very remarkable
"
miracle
" of
healing, alleged to have been wrought on
a
Brighton lady by
a
leaf
from the bush on which the Virgin Mary
is
said to have descended
during the recent celestial manifestations she
is
alleged to have
vouchsafed at Llanthony Abbey. After describing the apparitions,
Father Ignatius goes on to say that God was confirming the truth of
these apparitions by the most blessed signs possible. The leaves from
the bush had been sent to many persons, and were being used by God
to heal. He would mention one great miracle that had been wrought.
An elderly lady who kept
a
ladies' school in Brighton, and was,
therefore, well known, had suffered the most excruciating suffering
for thirty-eight years from
a
diseased hip-joint that would not allow
her to lie or sit down with comfort. She was a complete cripple.
In fact, he himself had seen her turn quite livid with the pain from
the joint. He sent her
a
leaf, not that he thought
it
would cure
her, but with the idea of giving her some memorial of the apparitions.
When she went to bed that night she took his letter and the leaf
with her, and the words,
"
According to thy faith be
it
unto thee,"
which she had read in Hawker's Morning and Evening Portion,"
were ringing in her ears. She prayed, and applied the leaf to the
abscess on her leg, and instantly the abscess disappeared, instantly
THE THEOSOPHIST AND HINDU PANTHEISM 181
the discharge ceased, instantly the pain ceased, and instantly she
was able to place her foot properly on the ground. Since then she
could walk about like other people, and she had been delivered
entirely from a life of terrible excruciating suffering. He would
give the name and address of the lady to any one who wished to
investigate the case, and the lady was quite willing to afford every
information.
An "apparition
" at Llanthony Abbey, or an "apparition
" in
the cabinet of a medium—we really do not see much difference in the
two beliefs ; and if God condescends to work through a leaf, why
should not the devil, the
"
monkey of God," do likewise ?
THE THEOSOPHIST AND HINDU PANTHEISM
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 {27), December, 1881 pp. 64-65.]
It is upon the above subject that we find Mr. Henry Atkinson, of
Boulogne, France, treating in the Philosophic Inquirer of Madras.
This gentleman is an able and widely-known writer, generally
perfectly clear and definite in his ideas. It, therefore, surprises us
the more, to be unable to find out his motive for dragging the
Theosophists into the above-named article. Having condensed from
Professor Flint's Anti-Theistic Theories, the author's analysis of the
Vedanta system, which led him to conclude that the negation of
the reality of the world, along with the affirmation that Para-
brahma is an impersonal deity—is a kind of Pantheism which is
Acosmism, Mr. Atkinson confirms the remark by adding that
"
Pantheism is just as likely to issue in Atheism." Not that we know
of—is our answer. As taught by the ablest and most learned
Vedantins of Benares, Pandits and Sanskrit scholars, their Pantheism
has quite a contrary result. But we must not digress from the
direct subject. Says the writer :
" From this virtual atheism there is but a step to avowed atheism.
The Sankhya philosophy and Buddhism are the Hindu exemplifi
cations of pantheistic speculation. It takes for granted that material
atoms existed from eternity. The reasoning by which the belief
in creation is set aside by Hindu philosophers is ever substantially
that which we find thus expressed in a Sutra of the Sankhya system :
'
There cannot be the production of something out of nothing ;
that, which is not, cannot be developed into that which is : the
production of what does not already exist potentially is impossible ;
because there must, of necessity, be a material out of which a
product is developed, and because everything cannot occur every
where at all times ; and because anything possible must be produced
from something competent to produce it.'
"
182 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
This quotation is immediately followed by the wholly unexpected
—hence rather startling —question,
"
Now do the Theosophists ask
us to return to such self-refuting dreamy abstractions—such wilful
wandering of an early unscientific age and country,"
(?)
and—that
is the only reference we find to the Theosophists in the whole
letter.
We fail, therefore, to perceive the relevancy of the query in
relation to anything in Mr. Atkinson's article
;
nor do we see that the
quotation from the Sutra has anything so
"
unscientific
"
in
it
;
nor
yet, the possible bearing upon theosophy the writer finds in the case
in hand, in general. What have the
"
Theosophists
" to do with
Professor Fhnt's speculations, with Vedantism, the Sankhya, or
even with Buddhism in this application
?
The Theosophists study
all the systems and—teach none, leaving every one to think and seek
out truth for himself. Our members but help each other in the
common work, and every one of us
is
open to conviction, wherever
the probable truth of any given hypothesis
is
demonstrated to him
by the light of modern science, logic, or reason. Less than all, does
any one of the Theosophists
"
ask
"
any one else to
"
return to,"
remain in or proceed in " self -refuting dreamy abstractions
" and
" wilful wandering of an early unscientific age
"—unless such
"
wandering
"
is
necessitated by the far greater wandering and many
an unproved speculation of our own
" scientific
"
age—modern
science ever balancing on one leg at the brink of
"
impassable
chasms." If Science, to enable herself to put two and two together
so as not to make of
it
five, had to return to the atomic theory of
old Democritus and the heliocentric system of the far older Pythag
oras —both of whom lived in ages which are generally regarded
as
" unscientific
"—we do not see why the Theosophists should not
wander in such ages in quest of the solution of the most vital prob
lems which, do what we may, no modern philosopher has yet
succeeded in even approaching. But what we do ask and most de
cidedly,
is
that people should study, compare and think for themselves
before they definitely accept anything upon second-hand testimony.
Hence we protest against more than one authoritative and as
arbitrary assumption of this our so-called
"
enlightened and
scientific age.
'
'
Till now, our daily accumulative and joint experience
shows to us the adjective no better than
a
vain boast and
a
mis
nomer
;
and we feel quite ready to maintain our position, inviting
and promising to feel grateful to Mr. Atkinson or any one else who
will disprove it.
Why should we, to begin with, call our age
a
"
scientific
"
age, in
preference to, or with any better claim to
it
than, the age of Alexander
the Great, or even that of Sargon the Chaldean
?
Our century
is
a
period which gave birth to many scientific men
;
to
a
still greater
THE THEOSOPHIST AND HINDU PANTHEISM 183
number of those who fancy themselves very scientific, but could
hardly prove it in a crucial test ; and —to teeming millions of
"
innocents
" who are quite as ignorant, as superstitious, and as
mentally weak and uneducated now as any of the citizens in the days
of the Hyksos, of Perikles, or of Rama ever were —then. No one
will deny that to every genuine man of science, at least, there are,
one hundred sciolists —pretenders to learning—and ten millions of
thorough ignoramuses throughout the world. Nor could any one
contradict the assertion that to every enlightened and thoroughly
well-educated person in society, we have to throw in several hundreds
of half-educated boobies, with no more than a superficial society-
varnish to conceal their gross ignorance. Moreover Science, or rather
Knowledge, and Ignorance are relative terms as all other contraries
are in nature—antagonistic, yet rather proving than disproving each
other. Thus, if the Scientist of to-day knows infinitely more in one
direction than the Scientist who flourished in the days of the
Pharaoh Tuthmosis, the latter knew probably immeasurably
more in another direction than all our Tyndalls and Herbert Spencers
know, proof of the above being shown in the
"
lost arts
" and
sciences. If this age of ours is one of wonderful achievement
in physical sciences, of steam and electricity, of railroads and
telegraphs, of telephones and what not, it is also one in which the
best minds find no better, no more secure or more reasonable refuge,
than in Agnosticism, the modern variation on the very ancient theme
of the Greek philosopher—" All I know is that I know nothing."
With the exception of a handful of men of science and cultured
people in general, it is also an age of compulsory obscurantism
and wilful ignorance —as a direct result, and the bulk of the present
population of the globe is no less
"
unscientific
" and quite as
grossly superstitious as it was 3,000 years back.
Is Mr. Atkinson or any one else (but a Christian) prepared to deny
the following very easily verified assertion —that one million of
uneducated Buddhists chosen at random—those, who hold to the
" good law
" as taught in Ceylon, ever since it was brought there
by King Asoka's son Mahinda, in the
"
unscientific
"
age of 200 B.C.
—are a hundred times less credulous, superstitious, and nearer to
scientific truths in their belief, than a million of Christians, equally
chosen at random and instructed in this
" scientific
"
age ? We would
advise any person, before he undertakes to contradict what we say,
to first get Colonel Olcott's Buddhist Catechism —intended for the
poor, ignorant children of as ignorant and unscientific Sinhalese
parents, and placing along with it the Roman Catholic Catechism,
or the highly elaborate Westminster Confession of Faith, or yet the
Church of England Thirty-nine Articles —compare notes. Let him
read and take these notes by the light of science and then tell us
184 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
which—the Buddhist or Christian dogmas —are nearer to the
teachings of Modern Science ? And let us bear in mind in this con
nection that Buddhism, as now taught, is identically the same as
it was preached during the first centuries which followed Buddha's
death, namely from 550 to a.d. 100 in the
"
early and unscientific
age and country
" of early Buddhism, while the above-named
expositions of the Christian faith —especially the two Protestant
works—are the elaborately revised and corrected editions, the
joint productions of the most learned theologians and the greatest
scholars of our "scientific" age. That they are, moreover, the
expression and the profession of a faith, deliberately accepted by the
most cultured classes of Europe and America. Thus, while this
kind of teaching remains in authority for the bulk of Western
population —both for the learned as well as for the unlearned—
we feel entirely justified in saying, that our age is not only
"
unscien
tific
" on the whole, but that the Western religious world is very little
ahead, indeed, of the fetish-worshipping savage.
TRANCE MEDIUMS AND "HISTORICAL" VISIONS
SOPHIE PIEROVSKV AS A " SPIRIT."
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 65-67.]
The reliability of the identification of returning spirits, may be
inferred from this bit of fresh intelligence recently received through
the Religio-Philosophical Journal, of July 23. A lady from Rochester,
U.S. —a Mrs. Cornelia Gardner—writes to narrate a personal
experience of her own clairvoyant powers. Treating of the
' '
identity
of spirits, and their messages," she says : "I usually take them for
what they are worth, and if I get evidence of truth, I am more than
glad ; if not, I put it into the scales with much else that comes, and
wait for evidence before deciding, for I believe the spirits need
trying as well as their mediums."
Precisely ; and a great pity it is, that the writer should have
departed, in the present instance, from her wise policy. Having
neglected to
"
wait for evidence," she now throws a considerable
doubt upon the reliability and lucidity of her clairvoyance. This is
the substance of what she tells us : Madame
(?)
Pierovsky —the
Nihilist executed for the foul murder of the Czar Alexander II—
hastened, as
it
seems, on the Saturday afternoon following the
execution of the five Nihilists at St. Petersburg, to put in an etherial
appearance at Rochester before Mrs. Gardner who heard her exclaim
;
"
I
am glad
I
did
it
!
It was the cause
of
freedom and
of
my countrymen.
I
had suffered with others
of
my family from the power
of
tyranny,
TRANCE MEDIUMS AND " HISTORICAL " VISIONS 185
and I felt a power impelling me onward that I could not resist. Now
I know what that unseen influence was, and why I could not resist it.
I acted in concert with tlw invisible forces of higher intelligences, who are
bringing about the great changes upon the earth that will prove that
the people's hour has come."
To the clairvoyant's question
" Who are you ?
"
the voice replied :
" / am Madame Sophie Pierovsky. I was executed in St. Petersburg
with the Nihilists for the assassination of the Czar."
The upper features of a face becoming visible, they showed a
"clear cut, broad, high forehead," which forehead helped the clair
voyant to identify the face as that of Sophie Pierovsky. On the
following day, she found in a newspaper the account of the execution.
'*
The most noticeable object," she writes,
" in the conveyance that
carried the prisoners to the scaffold, was the
'
broad high fore
head
'
of Madame Pierovsky, who rode to her execution bareheaded.
This answered to the head I had seen clairvoyantly."
Very well. And now we will analyse this remarkable vision. To
begin then. In hardly a dozen lines said to have been pronounced
by the "spirit," we find about half a dozen of posthumous fibs.
Sophie Pierovsky, who, by the way, never had
" a broad, high
forehead," but a very narrow and high forehead —we have her
photograph —a brow enchancing but little her natural beauty—
could not have —"rode to her execution, bareheaded." Besides
the regulations demanding that all the prisoners should have their
black caps on, her hands were tied. And, with that cap she appears,
at least in the photographed illustration of the ghastly procession
and the official reports of the execution, where, poetical fancy
finding no room, the caps are mentioned. Nor would Sophie
Pierovsky have introduced herself after death as "Madame," no
more than she would have done so during life, since she was unmarried
and was always called
"
Mile." Pierovsky in the Russian, as in all
the European papers. Again —all
" others of my (her) family
"
suffered but through the eternal disgrace brought by that wretched,
heartless creature upon her family. That family, established for
years in Crimea, is known to all the Odessa society, and to the writer
personally as well ; and we say, with little fear of being contradicted,
that no Russian was ever more loyal or more devoted to the late
Emperor than the unfortunate father of Sophie Pierovsky —the father
who, unable to survive the dishonour, has since died of a broken
heart, or, as many suspect a suicide. The
"
cause of freedom
"
and of her countrymen ! By the insane act of the regicides, unfor
tunate Russia was thrown forty years back, her political fetters
being now made heavier and stronger than ever. But the most
damaging part (damaging to the
"
angels ") in the Pierovsky
Spook's tirade is the concluding sentence of her short communication.
186 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
If that cold-blooded murderess acted
" in concert with the invisible
forces of higher intelligences," and those "higher intelligences"
influenced her to perpetrate the most foul of crimes —that of killing
an old man (the fact of his being the Emperor adding nothing to our
indignation) —and the kindest, most patriotic, as the best-disposed
man and ruler towards his people that Russia ever had, and who,
if left alone instead of being daily threatened, and given time, would
have brought about to a certainty every needed reform and so added
to the great reforms already accomplished —then of what character,
we may ask, must be the
" lower
"
intelligences ? And to think
that such a
"
spiritual communication
"
was published just at the
time when the U.S. President, General Garfield, was himself dying
from the hand of a vile assassin and has actually died since. ... Is
it also the
"
higher intelligences
"
that prompted Guiteau's hand ?
If so, the sooner we mortals shut our doors against the intrusion of
such dangerous visitors, the better it will be for the world's morality.
This remarkable letter is wound up by other information of no
less damaging a character.
"
Once since," writes Mrs. Gardner,
" at the house of a friend, she (Pierovsky) came again, and with her
the woman whom Russian justice took from childbed and cruelly tortured
to death,"
How very remarkable I Now, had the clairvoyant but waited
" for
evidence," she might have learned from the August papers, the official
news that the
"
woman whom Russian justice . . . had cruelly tortured
to death
"
(an ignoble invention of the Russian Nihilists at Paris)
namely, the Jewess, Jessie Gelffman —has just been pardoned by the
Emperor, and her death sentence commuted into transportation for
life. It is in consequence of a petition sent by her to the Empress,
begging for mercy in the name of the Imperial children and her own
—the regicide's —innocent babe, that her worthless life was spared.
Would Mrs. Gardner expect the murderess to be made, in addition
to the pardon,
" lady in waiting
"
upon the Russian Empress ? —
We would advise her, in such a case, to use her psychological powers
to move the U.S. Republicans to vote for the murderer Guiteau's
nomination as State-Secretary, if not the President of the U.S. in
lieu of his victim.
These two little psychological blunders remind us of another
blunder of the same kind, which found room likewise in the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, a few years back. In a series of letters, the
reminiscences of a stay at St. Petersburg, a Mr. Jesse Sheppard —a
really genuine, though rather erratic, medium, a "trance pianist
"
and singer of America, through whose marvellous wind-pipe, the late
Mesdames Catalini, Malibran, Grisi, and the Signori Lablache,
Ronconi and Co., with a host of other deceased operatic celebrities,
give daily their posthumous performances —narrates some remark
TRANCE MEDIUMS AND "
HISTORICAL
"
VISIONS 187
able
"
visions
" of his. These visions which we may term historical
—were obtained by him in a state of clairvoyant trance, in Russia.
The thrilling subject of one of them is the assassination of the
Emperor Paul I. Mr. Jesse Sheppard was at that time visiting
the palace in which the awful regicide had been perpetrated, and the
trance and subsequent vision were induced, as he tells us, by
the gloomy associations hanging like an invisible shroud over the
palace. How, in the world, that remarkable medium could have
ever got into a palace which was rased to the ground more than eighty
years back—in fact almost as soon as the crime had been committed,
a military school now being erected on its emplacement —is something
that has always puzzled us to explain. However, and nevertheless,
Mr. J. Sheppard was there —since he himself so tells us—and there
it was that he beheld, in an apocalyptic and well retrospective vision,
the scene of the ghastly murder, with all its sickening yet historical
details. He saw the Emperor Paul having his throat cut by two
serfs rejoicing in Russo-Yankee names, the favourites of Catherine II
—the
"
wife of Paul "—whom the medium saw quietly waiting for
the finale of this little conjugal drama in her own chamber, etc. , etc. . . .
Now, taking into consideration the trifling and undeniably historical
fact, which informs us that Catherine the Great was Paul's mother,
and had died before Paul ever ascended the throne of Russia, and that,
as a logical deduction, she could not be at the same time his wife,
ergo had nothing to do with his unpleasant death ; and thirdly—
that the Emperor Paul having been strangled with his own regimental
sash, to cut, therefore, his throat in addition to that, would only
be most rashly adding insult to injury—for the life of us we could
never, since we read and pondered over this remarkable vision,
make out the rationale of such a
"
phenomenon !
"
Nor can any
one else ?
As a matter of course, these remarks will bring upon our head a
new tornado of abuse, which, during its whirlwind and progressive
motion, will develop at each rotation a fresh column of most wonderful
unexpected vilification and abuse. So, we expect to be called again
an
"
impostor
"
; a subsidized agent of living Jesuits, hired to ruin
Spiritualism ; and the
"
medium
" of dead Jesuits, namely,
"
Jesuit
Spirits
" who use us with that object. We will be accused of bigamy,
trigamy and polygamy ; of having robbed the Bank of England and,
perhaps, killed with our
"
psychological powers in combination
with jugglery
" a Pope and several British Premiers ; of being
one of the heroines of Emile Zola, and of speaking French argot
(slang) like one of Eugene Sue's pickpockets in the Mysteres de Paris ;
(rather a compliment to our linguistic capabilities, than otherwise,
the more so as most of our own detractors can hardly speak even
their own language grammatically). To wind up the list of our
188 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
ghastly iniquities, we will be placed under the direct accusation of
pipe and "cigar-smoking" (!), "violent profanity" (!!), and—
" habitual Intemperance
"
(!l!). All that, because we question the
veracity of
"
Spirits
" who neglect to study history, and refuse to
recognize the
"
ghosts
" of persons, whom we know to be alive.
Furor arma ministrat. . . . Indeed, truth alone, and very unwelcome
truth it must be—is capable of throwing people into such fits of
absurd fury I
In relation to the above we regret to find a hitherto
respectable and "philosophical
"
paper descending to the level of
the most scurrilous little journal —a certain crazy spiritual Weekly
of Philadelphia. It is grievous that the conductors of a journal
claiming to be devoted to religion and philosophy should permit
unscrupulous correspondents to convert their columns into a vehicle
for the dissemination of most ignoble slanders concocted together for
the gratification of private malice. A disgraceful letter (disgraceful
for the journal that printed
it)
for the appearance of which, we
hope that Colonel Bundy, the Editor of the Religio-Philosophical
Journal, then absent from the country, was not immediately respon
sible, directs
a
flood of foul calumny against the editors of The
Theosophist. This tirade—which no gentleman, not even one with
the weak instincts of
a
gentleman, could have ever written —
is
beneath notice as regards the details, as
it
is
calculated to provoke,
in a few,
a
sickening feeling of contempt for the writer and in all the
rest —
a
homeric laugh. As
it
stands, however,
it
appears to be due
to the revengeful hostility of
a
half-witted French woman, from the
"far West," a would-be medium for "spirit photographs," who
will never forgive the Theosophists for denying her the honour of
being constantly surrounded by the late illustrious Bonaparte
family in astral shape. The
"
facts in my possession
"
of which the
writer so naively boasts, are mostly due to the second-hand in
formation derived by him from that poor, deluded creature. The fact
that he accuses us of intemperance and connivance with Jesuits will
be enough in itself, in the eyes of every one who knows us, to deter
mine the character of an attack concerning which we need say no
more.
*'
WE WILL NOT QUARREL BUT SIMPLY ARGUE "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No.
3
(27), December, 1881, p. 70.]
Our much respected contemporary, Light, has taken us quite
unexpectedly to task. Turning
a
sentence of ours— the one which
heads the present protest— into
a
weapon,
it
gives us
a
friendly
'*
WE WILL NOT QUARREL BUT SIMPLY ARGUE
"
189
rap of warning with it on the head, admonishing us in the following
wise :
" '
We will not Quarrel— but simply Argue,' says Madame
Blavatsky in the September number of The Theosophist. Yet on another
page of the same number we find the following strange announcement :—
'
The proprietors of The Theosophist are preparing to publish a large
work, unique in its kind, save perhaps Wagner's " Dictionary of faulty
arguments and abuse, by his musical critics." They have been collecting
for over six years materials for the publication of a Synopsis, arranged
alphabetically, and which will contain all the rude and abusive expres
sions, all the slanderous and even libellous sentences, Billingsgate phrase
ology, pious fibs, malicious insinuations, and glaring untruths coupled
with the term "
Theosophy
" in general, and directed against the two
Founders of the Society especially, as found printed in missionary and
other Christian organs, since January 1, 1876, till January, 1882. In
each deprecatory sentence the name of the paper and the date will be
scrupulously and correctly stated.' With all due deference to the pro
prietors of The Theosophist, we venture the suggestion that they are
making a sad mistake —that the course they threaten to adopt is very
much like
'
quarrelling
'
and very little like
'
simply arguing.' It is,
moreover, a great waste of energy which might be directed to a better
purpose. And it is vulgar ! In the pursuit of truth it is conscious recti
tude, self-possession and dignity, that command attention and respect."
In our turn,
"
with all due deference and sincere esteem
"
for the
opinions of the able conductors of Light, while admitting the justice
of a portion of the remarks above quoted, we most emphatically
protest against some of the remainder. It would, perhaps, be
" a sad
mistake to carry out the publication of the
"
Synopsis
"
as pro
posed, le jeu ne valant pas la chandelle, so far as time and energy are
concerned, and which, indeed, might be applied to better purpose.
But we most strongly object to the course we proposed being called
"
vulgar," or, if we did carry it out—that it would be
"
very much
like quarrelling
"
and very little like
"
simply arguing." It would
be neither, as it takes two to quarrel. The publication of a Synopsis
containing the abusive terms and slanderous statements that have
been used about the Theosophists without any comment from them,
would be no more
" like quarrelling
"
than the compilation of a
dictionary or glossary. Nor can the simple act of publishing an
historic record of the opinions that have been circulated against us,
in any sense be regarded as
"
vulgar," howsoever
" vulgar
"
may be
found the contents of the record itself —"the rude and abusive
expressions," the "slanderous and libellous sentences," the
"malicious insinuations, pious fibs," etc., etc. It might be charac
terized as
" wicked," " uncharitable," " revengeful
"—and we would
have accepted any of these terms without protest—but as well
igo THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
might the publication of the Books of the Prophets —Hosea espec
ially—or the Reverend Revisers of the Holy Bible be termed
"
vulgar
"
for publishing textually the old Pentateuch full, as it is,
of sentences couched in the most indecent language. It is surprising
that such an able and well-conducted paper as Light should be found
tripping in its logic, even through its exaggerated ideas of charity
and forgiveness.
WHAT IS A *'
FACT "
?
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 70-71.]
Once fairly started on a friendly discussion —not "quarrelling,"
we hope —with Light, we may just as well set matters right regarding
another topic, about which, it seems to us to use a rather faulty
argument. Remarking in another paragraph that it desires to treat
its
" friends, the Theosophists perfectly fairly, and to give them the
fullest credit for honesty and sincerity of purpose
"
it adds —
"
Spiritualism, we say, is a fact. Theosophy, we also say, may be a
fact for aught we know, but at present we are without sufficient
proof."
Now to this we must take exception. We find ourselves forced to
reply as follows : Either both Spiritualism and Theosophy are
" facts
" or—neither. For how is either of them
" a fact
"
except
through its respective votaries ? As an existing and, we may say,
an effective organization, a society —Theosophy is as much of a
" fact
" as Spiritualism is, and certainly no less so than any of the
established recognized bodies, and sects, whether they be in the
domain of philosophy or religion. As regards phenomena produced
—limited to a very small fraction of our Society—the manifestations
stand, or fall along with those of the Spiritualists. We may suppose
then, that, when asserting Spiritualism to be a
" fact," the writer
had in his mind the
"
Spiritual
"
manifestations or rather the agency,
the disembodied intelligences claimed to be at work in their produc
tion ? If so, then once again Light used an incorrect, or we should
say, an incomplete expression. For, if the theory of communicating
"
spirits
"
is an undeniable axiom for Spiritualists, it is yet an open
question —or oftener —positive delusion in the eyes of the majority
of non-Spiritualists, and sceptics. Moreover, the manifestations
which even to the Theosophists are truth, are considered illusory
and impossible to a much larger portion of the people in the world.
Again we, the Theosophists, though accepting the phenomena as a
fact, refuse to accept it as a
"
fact
" that such manifestations are
produced only by the spirits of persons deceased. As with Spiritual
WHAT IS A "
FACT " ?
191
ism, so with the Occultism of Theosophists ; to some persons it
is a fact, and to others it is not. Spiritualism and Theosophy are
both forms of belief, and nothing more ; inasmuch as there are
persons who believe in them, they are both facts. In the same way
Christians, Brahmans and Mohamedans are an existing fact, while
neither Christianity, nor Brahmanism, nor Mohamedanism are
"
facts
"
per se, or for those who are opposed to these creeds. The
divine inspiration of Mohamed and his direct communication with
Allah is an undeniable
" fact," for about 300 millions of the followers
of the Prophet, but is rejected as the grossest error and imposture
by as many Christians. The phenomena of the Spiritualists being
a genuine, proven, incontrovertible reality —whether many or few
believe in it—so far the
"
facts
"
of Spiritualism have a far better
claim to acceptance than those of dogmatic Christianity or of any
other creed, based exclusively on blind faith. Their personal views,
however, the orthodox theories regarding
"
spirits," being not a
matter of fact but of opinion and simply a belief, they can no more
claim to be regarded as a
"
fact
" than any other emotional belief.
If the physical senses, intellect and reason of the Spiritualists
testify to them that
"
Spirits
" are at work in their phenomena, the
physical senses, intellect and reason of the Occultists testify to them,
in their turn, that the subjective world outside and around us
containing a great variety of non-human intelligences, and beings,
more associated with humanity than Materialism, Positivism and
even Spiritualism will ever consent to admit —most of these manifes
tations are produced by Forces and Powers quite outside and beyond
the calculations of the orthodox Spiritualist. In so far as the exis
tence of higher, pure Spirits outside of our sphere of physical senses
is concerned, the Theosophists and Spiritualists, agree. But they
entirely disagree in their respective theories regarding the nature
and cause of the so-called
"
communicating intelligences." Our
friends, the Spiritualists, who are visited by them, are pleased to
call the latter the spirits of deceased persons ; and, notwithstanding
their contradictory statements, they believe what these
"
spirits
"
tell them and regard it as a revelation and a
"
fact." Our mystics
are visited by what every one of them knows to be living men of
flesh and blood, whose wisdom can scarcely be denied (even by those
who disbelieve in their powers), and who tell us quite a different tale
of the weird visitors of the Spiritualists from that given by the
"
spirits
"
themselves at their siances. The assertions of the
"spirits
" and
" Brothers," however, are, and can be accepted as
' " facts
"
by only their respective believers. No one would ever
think of offering these assertions to the world as something mathe
matically demonstrated. Spiritualists and Theosophists may dispute
interminably without convincing each other, and the facts of one
192 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
will probably for ever continue a delusion in the eyes of the other.
Alleged gods —Avatars and Incarnations —have descended from
time to time on earth, and every word they uttered remained a fact
and a gospel truth for those who believed in them. Yet these
dogmatic utterances have made their respective votaries neither
happier, better, nor wiser. Quite the contrary ; for they have often
proved conducive of strife and misery, of fratricidal wars, and of
interminable crimes due to fanaticism and bigotry. Men naturally
disagree on most subjects, and we cannot hope to force others to
accept as facts the things that appear so to us. But what we can do
is, to show more mutual tolerance and abstain from dogmatism and
bigotry as there is too much of it already outside of our two unpopular
and equally tabooed systems. One undeniable fact exists on earth ;
a sad, a tacitly and universally recognized yet as universally ignored
" Fact," namely—that Man is man's worst enemy. Born helpless,
ignorant, and doomed to a life-long struggle through that ignorance,
surrounded by intellectual darkness which no amount of scientific
or spiritual research can entirely dispel, instead of helping each other
in that life-struggle, one half of humanity is ever striving to create
obstacles, over which the other half may trip, stumble and even
break its neck, if possible. Were we wise, instead of boasting of our
partial knowledge, we ought to unite and act on the principle
common to the Books of Wisdom of all nations ; on the sublime
precept taught by all sages ; by Manu, Confucius and Buddha alike,
and finally copied into the Christian Gospels :
" as ye would that
men do unto you, do ye also to them." Time alone will show who
of us is right, and who wrong, in the matter of Spiritualism ; or,
perchance, the great problem might be doomed for ever to remain
unsolved for the majority, while the minority will go on explaining
it, each according to its lights and understanding. Still, instead of
abusing and endeavouring to annihilate each other, as Protestants
and Roman Catholics do on account of their faiths, we ought to
confine ourselves to a correct presentation of our facts and of the
theories we found on them, allowing every one to accept or reject
what he pleases and quarrel with no one on that account. This is
the position we, of the Theosophical Society, composed of so many
different creeds and beliefs, have always desired to take. In our
turn —firmly convinced of
"
the honesty and sincerity of purpose
"
of the Spiritualists, if The Theosophist has occasionally derided some
of their too tricky mediums, it has ever, on the other hand, defended
those it knew to be genuine ; and the journal has never insulted or
tabooed their whole body, as the Spiritualists have our Society.
Some of our best and most devoted members are Spiritualists, and
very prominent ones, who have ever been the best friends and sup
porters of the movement. This has not prevented the London
HAZY NOTIONS 193
Spiritualist (see every weekly number since the beginning of last
July) from denouncing, mocking, laughing and allowing its con
tributors to revile us individually and collectively. We need not
mention the American so-called
"
Spiritual
"
organs in this con
nection. They, with the single exception of the Banner of Light,
have been throwing every impermissible missile at us for the last
seven years. From its beginning The Theosophist, if it has not always
advocated, has, at least, warmly defended Spiritualism, as a careful
perusal of its back numbers will show. It has defended it from the
attacks of Science, of Journalism, and against the denunciations
of private individuals, while the Spiritualist has never lost an
opportunity of caricaturing us. With Spiritualists as a body, we
have never quarrelled, nor do we ever mean to quarrel. Let our
esteemed contemporary Light give credit for so much at least to
those who profess themselves the enemies but of Bigots, Hypocrites
and Pharisees.
HAZY NOTIONS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 71-72.]
Enter Ghost.
Hamlet. . . . Ministers of grace, defend us !
Be thou a spirit of health, or goblin damn'd
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
That I will speak to thee. . . .
The Sunday Mirror honours us with a direct notice. The Calcutta
organ of piety, generally so contemptuous and reserved, actually
begins to show signs of interest for its humble contemporary and —
speaks to it. Our star is evidently in its ascendancy. Let not
pride overwhelm our better feelings, but may our prayers reach
Saraswati, the sweet goddess of wisdom, to inspire us in the answers
we shall have to give to our stern cross-examining critic.
" Our notions about the Theosophists are so hazy that we feel a
diffidence in pronouncing upon the merits of the system which
they have come to preach."
we read in the Mirror of November 20. To feel
" a diffidence in
pronouncing upon the merits
"
of a system, with notions about it
confessedly
"
hazy
" shows wisdom and betokens prudence. Never
theless, the Mirror notes two facts about us. They believe —it
says —(meaning the Theosophical culprits)
N
194 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
" They believe in the Hindu yoga, and they proclaim themselves
to be Buddhists. It is related that they gave themselves out as
such before the Madras people who had mistaken them for Hindus.
' '
Oh, foolish Madrassees ! However, the Theosophists, who do
" believe
" in Yoga
"
must surely be ubiquitous." To give one's self
out as one thing or the other, in a place where one has never been,
is a feat of which even the Theosophists might well be proud. Let it
be understood that when we say —"
Theosophists
" we but answer
the secret thought of the estimable Mirror painting itself under that
generic name the two humble founders of the Society, but for reasons
best known to itself, avoiding to specify them by name. Well, if so,
neither Colonel Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky ever graced yet by
their presence Madras, the former having gone no further than
Tinnevelly, and the latter having trod the shores of the Southern
Coast for the last time some twenty-three years back. There might
have been in Madras hundreds of Theosophists for all we know, who
"
proclaimed
"
themselves —but what they were ; natural-born
Buddhists from Ceylon to Burmah. So much the worse for Dravidian
perspicacity if they were
"
mistaken for Hindus." We are inclined
though to regard the accusation as a wicked slur upon the Madras-
sees' mental capacities, because, perhaps, of our Southern Brothers
showing themselves rather slow in the appreciation of the New
Dispensation missionaries.
However it may be, further on the Sunday Mirror is more explicit
and even becomes authoritative.
" Now what we wish to know about them is this
"—it declares
—" What is the creed which they profess ? Buddhism is accepted
in various ways by scholars. Its morality is admired by many,
while its directly godless character is commended by agnostics.
We contemplate the founder of Buddhism as the revealer of a
particular idea to his countrymen, and in that way include him
in the rolls of the world's great prophets. Now if the Theosophists
are Buddhists in what sense are they such ? They cannot be simply
contented with the morality of Sakya-Muni, since the very same
morality they have in the religion of their own countries.1 Nor
are they probably inclined to view him in the way the New
Dispensation does ?
2
Are they then agnostics in an old Buddhist
dress ?
3
The Theological position of Buddhism is not yet clearly
ascertained.4 Mr. Rhys Davids assigns, we think, in one of his
1 Not quite
"
the very same
"
(morality).
• Oh, heavens —no I
* No ; but some of us may be
"
agnostics in a new Theosophical dress ".
« Alas I as little ascertained and as
"
hazy
" as the Sunday Mirror's notions
about Theosophy.
HAZY NOTIONS 195
latest works, a purely atheistic conception to the system. Do
the theosophists belong to that class of thinkers ?
A direct plainly-put question demands as direct and plain an
answer. Unfortunately, with all our good-will and sincere desire
to satisfy our esteemed contemporary's curiosity (and very laudable
it
is)
we are placed in
a
very awkward position. It
is
that of an
inhabitant of the earth who would find himself suddenly apostro
phized by—say a citizen of the moon meteorically fallen from that
luminary.
" Oh, child of a strange planet," might say that latter
to the former, " a learned astronomer from our satellite tells us that
there are living animals on your earth, who, notwithstanding their
great variety, are all called men and who deny an atmosphere to our
planet. Do the like of you belong to that class of beings
?
"
What
could man answer to such
a
question
?
There would be no more use
denying his being
a
"
living animal
"
called man, than there
is
our
being
"
Theosophists
"
;
while his ideas might be as diametrically
opposed to those of his fellow-beings who deny an atmosphere to
fair Luna, as the views and creed of some Theosophists are opposed
to the views and creeds of other Theosophists. The members of our
Society may be reckoned by thousands and their respective religions,
sects and various philosophies, by hundreds. When, therefore, any
one desires to learn to what religion or systems belongs this or that one
of our Brotherhood, the least he could do would be to specify that
particular individual by his or her name.
To afford, however, some consolation to our Calcutta contem
porary we will take
it
into our confidence, and unbosom ourself, of
a
great secret. Colonel Olcott
is
a thorough-going, genuine Buddhist
—though not one of the
"
prayer-wheel turning
" kind
;
while his
humble corresponding Secretary, Madame Blavatsky,
is
—what she
is
:
her religious—or
if
the Mirror so prefers
it
—irreligious views
forming part of her private property, with which the public has not
the slightest concern. As to the Society in general, or rather its
members, they are bound to respect the religion of everybody
;
never to attack any system per se, nor yet any religionist who keeps
his faith sacredly locked up within his own heart, abstaining from
waving
it
into the public's face like a red flag before
a
bull, or
flinging
it
into the teeth of all those he meets with
;
at the same time,
it
is
our bounden duty and pleasure to oppose harsh-voiced bigotry,
religious intolerance, sectarian prejudice and arrogance whenever
and in whatever religion we find
it
;
from the oldest
"
Dispensation
"
—downward.
196 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
WEIRD PHENOMENA
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3, (27), December, 1881, p. 75.]
By Dr. Ram Das Sen
I.
The following story was related in the presence of a large assemblage
of friends and acquaintances by the late Babu Abhoy Charan Newgy, an
assistant surgeon in the employ of the Government of Bengal.
He had not long been in charge of a hospital at a certain station in the
North- Western Provinces. Accustomed to sleep out of doors during the
warm weather, he often slept on an open terrace adjoining the dispensary
building. Once, on rather a sultry night, he had retired to bed and was
composing himself to sleep. There were a few chairs left standing close
to his couch. Suddenly a sound as that of the rustling of a person's dress
or something like it, startled him. Opening his eyes he saw before him,
sitting calmly in one of his chairs, his predecessor, the late assistant
surgeon, who had died a month previous in the premises of that dis
pensary. Babu Abhoy was a stoutly-built man, and of a frame of mind
quite proof to superstitious fears or anything like nervousness. As might
be imagined, he was not in the least frightened. He simply ejaculated a
low sound of surprise, when the apparition floating over a high wall
gradually disappeared. The whole scene took place in a clear moonlight
night.
II.
Gobind Prasad Sukul was an inhabitant of Nattore, in the district of
Rajshahy, Bengal. When we first saw him at Berhampore, in Murshed-
abad, he appeared to us a thin, wiry skeleton of a man, on the wrong
side of 50, with sharp, angular features, a mysterious look about him,
and who was constantly muttering something to himself. Admission
into the house he resided in, was strictly denied by him to all visitors.
He used to always dress in scarlet cotton stuffs and was a frequent visitor
of ours. When sitting in our presence, he would, if requested, take up
a pinch of earth, and putting it into his left palm cover it with the other,
and breathe into his joined hands ; a minute or two after that, opening
his palms just enough to let us have a glimpse, he would show us a gold
coin, or a flower, the latter each time of a different colour and variety.
It is said he held converse with
"
Spirits." Many a person is known to
have won lawsuits, and many a one to recover his health,—though
apparently hopelessly gone, through the mystic instrumentality of that
strange personage.
We need not notice the subject of article II, as it is very
clear that Gobind Prasad Sukul was a man who had possessed
himself by some means of considerable occult powers. But we
will say a few brief words about the
"
ghost
"
of the assistant
IS CREATION POSSIBLE FOR MAN ? 197
surgeon. The apparition was that of a man, who had died a month
previous—within the premises of the dispensary he appeared in, and
where he had lived and breathed his last. The
"
Astral Light," or,
if our readers prefer a more scientific term—the ether of Space —
preserves the images of all beings and things on its sensitised waves ;
and under certain atmospheric and electric conditions, more often
furnished and determined by the vital magnetism of
" mediums,"
pictures and scenes subjective, hence invisible under ordinary
normal conditions, will be thrown out into objectivity. The figure
of the apparition may have been but an accidental and meaningless
reflection on that
"
sultry," electric
"
moonlight night," of the image
of one whose figure was, owing to a long residence and death of that
person on the premises, strongly impressed upon the etheric waves ;
and it may also have been due to the roaming of the
"
animal
soul," what the Hindus call Kama- and Mayavi-rupa, the
" Illu-
sionary Body
"
of the deceased person. At all events, it is but the
Spiritualists who will insist that it was the spirit or the conscious
"
Egooi the dead Assistant Surgeon," the Occultists maintaining that
it was at best the
"
shell
"
or the astral form of the disembodied man ;
and giving it as usual the name of an
"
Earth-bound Elementary."
IS CREATION POSSIBLE FOR MAN ?
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 79-80.]
The Editor of The Theosophist.
Madame, —Talking the other day to a friend, who, like me, without
being a Theosophist, takes a very great interest in the movements of
your Society, I incidentally happened to remark that the
"
Brothers of
the first section
" were credited with such large powers, that even
creation was not at times impossible to them. In support of my assertion,
I instanced their own cup and saucer phenomenon, as narrated by Mr.
Sinnett in his Occult World, which phenomenon appeared to me to be
something more than the mere reproduction, transference or unearthing
from its hiding-place of an article lost or stolen, like the brooch. My
friend, however, warmly objected to my statement —remarking that
creation was not possible to man, whatever else he may be able to
accomplish.
Believing, as I then did, in Christianity as the most perfect heaven-
descended code of ethics on earth, there was a time in the history of my
chequered life, (chequered, I mean, as regards the vast sea of doubt and
unbelief on which I have been tossing for over twenty years) when I
would have myself as warmly, even indignantly, repelled the idea of
creation as a possibility to man ; but the regular reading of your journal,
and a careful perusal of Mr. Sinnett's book and of that marvel of learning
and industry your own Isis Unveiled, have effected quite a revolution
198 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
(whether for good or bad has yet to be seen) in my thoughts, and it is now
some time since I have begun to believe in the possibility of phenomena
beyond the range of my own narrow vision.
Will you kindly tell me which of us is right, my friend or I ? Not
having the honour of being personally known to you, I close this letter
only with my initial.
H.
OUR ANSWER
The question to be dealt with is hardly whether our correspondent
or his friend is right, for we understand him to take up the prudent
attitude of a seeker after truth who shrinks from affirming dogmati
cally that creation is possible for man, even while unwilling to accept
the dogmatic negative assertion of his friend that
"
it is impossible."
Before coming to the gist of the question raised, we have, therefore,
to notice the illustrations which this letter affords of the ways in
which such a question may be considered.
When our correspondent's friend denies that creation is possible
for man, we can hardly assume that he does so from any conviction
that he has sounded all the mysteries of Nature, and knowing all
about the universe —being able to account for all its phenomena —
has ascertained that the process, whatever that may be, which he
conceives of as creation does not go on anywhere in obedience to
the will or influence of man, and has further ascertained that there
is something in man which makes it impossible that such a process
should be accomplished. And yet without having done all that, it
is bold of him to say that creation is impossible. Assuming that he
is not a student of occult science —and the tone of the letter before
us conveys the impression that he is not—our friend's friend when he
makes his dogmatic statement, seems to be proceeding on the
method but too commonly adopted by people of merely ordinary
culture and even by a few men of science —the method which takes
a large group of preconceived ideas as a standard to which any
new idea must be applied. If the new idea fits in with, and seems to
support the old ones, well and good ; they smile upon it. If it clashes
with some of these they frown at it, and excommunicate it without
further ceremony.
Now the attitude of mind exhibited by our correspondent, who
finds many old beliefs, shattered by new ideas, the force of which
he is constrained by moral honesty to realize, and who, therefore,
feels that in presence of the vast possibilities of Nature he must
advance very cautiously and be ever on his guard against false lights
held out by time-honoured prejudices and hasty conclusions —
seems to us an attitude of mind which is very much better entitled
to respect than that of his over-confident friend. And we are the
more anxious to recognize its superiority in the most emphatic
IS CREATION POSSIBLE FOR MAN ?
language, because when we approach the actual question to be
discussed, the bearing of what we have to say will be rather in favour
of the view which the
"
friend
"
takes of
" creations," if indeed we
are all attaching the same significance to that somewhat over-driven
word.
It is needless after what we have just said to point out that if
we are now going to make some statements as to what is, and what is
not the fact, as regards some of the conditions of the universe, we
are not on that account infringing the rules of thought just laid down.
We are simply giving an exposition of our little fragment of occult
philosophy as taught by masters who are in a position to make
positive statements on the subject, the credibility of which will
never be in danger from any of those apparently inexplicable
occurrences related in the books to which our correspondent refers,
and likely enough, as he justly conceives, to disturb many of the
orthodox beliefs which he has seen crumbling around him.
It would be a volume we should have to write and not a brief
explanatory note, if we attempted to begin, by elucidating the
conviction we entertain that the Masters of Occult Philosophy above
referred to are entitled to say what is and what is not. Enough
for the present to say what we believe would be said, in answer to
the question before us, by those who know.
But we must have a clear understanding as to what is meant by
creation. Probably the common idea on the subject is that when the
world was
" created," the creator accorded himself or was somehow
accorded a dispensation from the rule ex nihilo nihil fit and actually
made the world out of nothing —if that is the idea of creation to be
dealt with now, the reply of the philosophers would be not merely
that such creation is impossible to man but that it is impossible to
gods, or God ; in short absolutely impossible. But a step in the
direction of a philosophical conception is accomplished when
people say the world was
" created
"
(we say fashioned) out of Chaos.
Perhaps, they have no very clear idea of what they mean by Chaos,
but it is a better word to use in this case than
"
nothing." For,
suppose we endeavour to conceive chaos as the matter of the universe
in an unmanifested state it will be seen at once that though such
matter is perfectly inappreciable to ordinary human senses, and to
that extent equivalent to
"
nothing," creation from such materials
is not the production of something which did not exist before, but
a change of state imposed upon a portion of universal matter which
in its previous state was invisible, intangible and imponderable, but
not on that account non-existent.1 Theosophist -Occultists do not,
1 It is one of the many reasons why Buddhist philosophy refuses to admit the
existence and interference in the production of the universe of a direct creator or
god. For once admit, for argument's sake, that the world was created by such a
being, who, to have done so, must have been omnipotent, there remains the old
200 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
however, use the word
" creation," at all, but replace it by that of
Evolution.
Here we approach a comprehension of what may have been the
course of events as regards the production of the mysterious cup and
saucer described in Mr. Sinnett's book. It is in no way inconceivable
that if the production of manifestation in matter is the act accom
plished by what is ordinarily called creation, the power of the
human will in some of its transcendent developments may be enabled
to impose on unmanifested matter or chaos, the change which brings
it within the cognisance of the ordinary human senses.
EDITOR'S NOTE TO
" THE THEOSOPHISTS "
By Gerald Massey
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, pp. 80-82.]
[The following Note is H. P. Blavatsky's Editorial comment on
an article contributed to Light by Gerald Massey and reprinted in
The Theosophist, in which he raised various points about the
elementals, and invited explanations from the Theosophists.]
Summed up in a few words, this article asks for further information
about
"
elementals
" ; suggests that they may be what Spiritualists
would call
" the spirits
" of deceased animals ; offers this as a new
idea for the consideration of Eastern philosophers ; and points out
that if the adepts of occult science had been privileged to read
Darwin they might, with their peculiar powers of clairvoyance, have
been able to detect in the elementals, shapes which would identify
these as reliquice of Man's imperfectly developed ancestors.
The comprehension of what occult science really is, has spread in
Europe so very imperfectly as yet, that we must not be impatient
even with this curiously entangled view of the subject. European
mystics, when further advanced in the tedious study of unintelligible
books, will often be hardest to persuade that they must go back some
distance on the paths they have travelled, before they can strike into
those which lead to the fully illuminated regions of Eastern know
ledge. They are naturally loth to confess that much time has been
wasted ; they try to make the fragments of esoteric Eastern philo-
difficulty to be dealt with —who then created that pre-existing matter, that eternal,
invisible, intangible and imponderable something or chaos ? If we are told that,
being
"
eternal
"
and imperishable, it had no need of being
" created," then our
answer will be that in such a case there are two
"
Eternals
"
and two
"
Omnipot-
ents
" ; or if our opponents argue that it is the omnipotent No. i or God who
created it, then we return from where we first started—to the creation of something
out of nothing, which is such an absolute absurdity before science and logic that it
does not even require the final unanswerable query resorted to by some precocious
children
"
and who created God !
"
EDITOR'S NOTE TO " THE THEOSOPHISTS "
201
sophy they may pick up here and there, fit into the vacant places in
the scheme of things they have painfully constructed for themselves,
and when the fragments will not fit, they are apt to think the corners
want paring down here and there, and the hollows filling up. The
situation which the European mystic does not realise is this : The
Eastern occult philosophy is the great block of solid truth from which
the quaint, exoteric mysticism of the outer world has been casually
thrown off from time to time, in veiled and symbolical shapes. These
hints and suggestions of mystic philosophy may be likened to the
grains of gold in rivers, which early explorers used to think betokened
somewhere in the mountains from which the rivers sprang, vast beds
of the precious metal. The occult philosophy with which some people
in India are privileged to be in contact, may be likened to the parent
deposits. Students will be altogether on a wrong track as long as
they check the statements of Eastern philosophy by reference to
the teachings and conceptions of any other systems. In saying this
we are not imitating the various religionists who claim that salvation
can only be had within the pale of their own small church. We are
not saying that Eastern philosophy is right and everybody else is
wrong, but that Eastern philosophy is the main stream of knowledge
concerning things spiritual and eternal, which has come down in an
unbroken flood through all the life of the world. That is the demon
strable position which we, occultists of the Theosophical Society, have
firmly taken up, and all archaeological and literary research in matters
connected with the earliest religions and philosophies of historical
ages helps to fortify it. The casual growths of mystic knowledge in
this or that country and period, may or may not be faithful reflections
of the actual, central doctrines ; but, whenever they seem to bear
some resemblance to these, it may be safely conjectured that at least
they are reflections, which owe what merit they possess to the original
light from which they derive their own.
Now the tone of such articles as that we have reprinted above is
quite out of harmony with this general estimate of the position.
Mr. Massey's mental attitude is that of a power in treaty with a
collateral power :
"
Give us this and this bit of information which
you can perhaps possess ; we offer you in return some valuable hints
derived from Western science. Weld them into your own inquiries,
and you will, perhaps, bring out some fresh conclusions." Such an
attitude as this is absolutely ludicrous to any one who has had the
means of realising, even in a small degree, what the range and depth
of Eastern occult philosophy really are. To say that offering know
ledge or discoveries of any sort to the Masters of Occult Philosophy
is carrying coals to Newcastle, is to say nothing. There may be some
small details of modern science which occult philosophy has not
anticipated (centuries ago), but if so, that can only be because the
202 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
genius of occult philosophy leads it to deal with the main lines of
principle and to care as a rule very little for details —as little as for
the material advantage or comfort they may be designed to subserve.
Such broad conceptions as the theory of evolution, for example, have
not only been long ago known to Eastern occultists, but as developed
in Europe, are now recognised by them as the first faltering step of
modern science in the direction of certain grand principles with which
they have been familiar, —we will not venture to say since when. . . .
" If the Theosophist were also an evolutionist," says Mr. Massey,
"
perhaps he would be able to fix the fleeting forms of his vision and
perceive some of the spirits of Man's predecessors on the earth." If
the European scientists whose fancy has for the first time been caught
within these last few years, by the crude outlines of an evolutionary
theory, were less blankly ignorant of all that appertains to the
mysteries of life, they would not be misled by some bits of knowledge
concerning the evolution of the body, into entirely absurd conclusions
concerning the other principles which enter into the constitution of
Man.
But we are on the threshold of a far mightier subject than any
reader in Europe who has not made considerable progress in real
occult study, is likely to estimate in all its appalling magnitude. Will
any one who has perused with only some of the attention it really
deserves the article we published but two months ago under the title
" Fragments of Occult Truth," make an effort to account, in his own
mind, even in the most shadowy and indistinct way, for the history of
the six higher principles in any human creature, during the time when
his body was being gradually perfected, so to speak, in the matrix of
evolution. Where, and what were his higher spiritual principles when
the body had worked into no more dignified shape than that of a
baboon ? Of course, the question is put with a full recognition of the
collateral errors implied in the treatment of a single human being as
the apex of a series of forms, but, even supposing that physical
evolution were as simple a matter as that, how to account for the
final presence in the perfected human body of a spiritual soul ? —or
to go a step back in the process, how to account for the presence of
the animal soul in the first creature with independent volition that
emerges from the half vegetable condition of the earlier forms ?
Is it not obvious, if the blind materialist is not to be accepted as a
sufficient guide to the mysteries of the universe, —if there really are
these higher principles in Man of which we speak, that there must be
some vast process of spiritual evolution going on in the universe
pari passu with the physical evolution ?
For the present we merely throw out hints and endeavour to
provoke thought and enquiry ; to attempt in this casual manner, a
complete exposition of the conclusions of Eastern philosophy in
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES 203
this direction would be like starting on a journey to the South Pole
a-propos to a passing enquiry whether one thought there was land
there or not.
But we have, perhaps, said enough to meet the somewhat imperfect
suggestion in Mr. Gerald Massey's article to the effect that elementals
may perhaps be the spirits of animals or of
"
missing links
"
belonging
to a former epoch of the world's history. The notion that in some
immaterial shape, —one may use an absurd expression to set forth an
absurd conjecture,—the spirits of any living creature can lead a
perpetual existence as the stereotyped duplicates of the transitory
material forms they inhabited while passing through the earthly
stage of their pilgrimage, is to reckon entirely without the very
doctrine which Mr. Massey so kindly offers for the consideration of
Eastern philosophers. No more than any given material form is
destined to infinite perpetuation can the finer organisms which
constitute the higher principles of living creatures be doomed to
unchangeability. What has become of the particles of matter which
composed the physical bodies of
"
man's predecessors on the earth."
They have long ago been ground over in the laboratory of Nature,
and have entered into the composition of other forms. And the idea
or design of the earlier forms has risen into superior idea or design
which has impressed itself on later forms. So also, though the analogy
may give us no more than a cloudy conception of the course of events,
it is manifest that the higher principles, once united with the earlier
forms, must have developed in their turn also. Along what infinite
spirals of gradual ascent the spiritual evolution has been accomplished
we will not stop now to consider. Enough to point out the direction
in which thought should proceed, and some few considerations which
may operate to check European thinkers from too readily regarding
the realms of spirit as a mere phantasmagorial cemetery, where the
shades of the Earth's buried inhabitants doze for ever in an aimless
trance.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 3 (27), December, 1881, p. 84.]
[The following footnote is appended by H. P. B. to an account of
crimes performed by Christian divines :]
We have been repeatedly and unjustly accused of bearing ill-will
to the Western Clergy, and while copying all the evil reports about
them we can find, not to have taken notice of the good they do. We
can copy but what we find in the news and—no more. We bear no
ill-will to any creed especially, and are ready to publish reports of
the remarkable doings of any class of men whatever. Hence, we do
204 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
not see why we should be more particularly careful not to hurt the
feelings of the class of men under notice, than those of any other class
of men. The subject has a distinct bearing upon the cause we
advocate and represent, and it is our special object to find out which
of the four great world-religions is the more likely to promote
morality among men.
"
THE KNIGHT WITHOUT REPROACH OR FEAR "
[Bombay Gazette (Bombay), December —, 1881.]
To the Editor of the Bombay Gazette.
Sir, —Since you were kind enough to republish in your paper of
the 6th instant an article from the Statesman headed
"
An Australian
Blavatsky," you will permit I hope to the Bombay individual of
that name to make a few remarks thereon. I will only draw your
attention to what I may term the most remarkable feature of that
gentlemanly editorial, namely, the double-edged aspect of the
weapon used against the object of that attack. It is not to be searched
for in the outward aspect of the attack itself—one of the many
brutal, uncalled for, and libellous articles directed against my name
and reputation lately : not even in the abuse and impertinence of
its too witty editor. Still less is the point at issue, for the present,
in the question whether I am deservedly or undeservedly placed on
a parallel with Mrs. Jackson, whom the Statesman pleases to represent
as an adventuress, an impostor, and a thief, since she is accused of
having obtained a large legacy by fraud and under false pretences.
The latter point I may safely leave to the Calcutta courts to decide
and pronounce upon. No : that wondrous feature is rather in the
cool and serene cheek of the editor, whose mental attitude may be
characterized by what the Frenchman unpoetically, but graphically
represents as cracker en Vair pour le faire retomber sur le nez —to spit
in the air, only to feel it fall back on the spitter's nose—an attitude
truly worthy of a
"
Bayard
" the
"
Knight without reproach or
fear
"
! However the Statesman's Editor claims, I believe, to be
regarded as a staunch defender of the Indian people's rights : as
a redresser of their wrongs : one who breaks his chivalrous lance in
honour of fair Aryavarta ? So does the Editor of The Theosophist
—a journal founded for the benefit of and solely for the natives.
While he defends their political rights, we Theosophists try our
best to defend their religious rights, and to prove their claims to
the most ancient civilization, literature, and wisdom, thus showing
their superiority in many respects, to our Western civilization —a
babe of yesterday. To this effect the political Statesman was started
at Calcutta, and the
"
religio-philosophical
"
Theosophist at Bombay.
" THE KNIGHT WITHOUT REPROACH OR FEAR "
205
How far and whether we have succeeded at all in our respective
objects is a question which we must leave to time alone to decide.
All I can say is, that we, at least, tried our best and according to our
humble lights and means to achieve our task. But here all com
parison between the Statesman and The Theosophist abruptly ceases.
For that which for the latter was and is a labour of love and devotion
to an idea —however Utopian it may seem to many—a labour
rewarded by the majority of the natives (on whose behalf it was
started) by the most foul abuse, suspicion, and ceaseless attacks upon
the Theosophists, the Statesman expected and demanded that his
work should be remunerated. We all remember its loud and pressing
appeals for money in the Co-Regent of Hyderabad case to the peoples
of India. Rajas and ryots, Brahmin and Sudra, Prince and Mang,
were all expected to lay their mite on the altar of national defence :
thousands and lakhs of rupees were demanded in order that the
Statesman might defend the combined interests of the people of India,
and one Sabha alone is said to have sent to London between twenty
and thirty thousand rupees. How much good the native contributors
got for the worth of their money I do not know, for I have no interest
or concern with political brawls. But I have a right to observe that
this defence of and alleged devotion of the Statesman to the natives
of India is not, what one might view as wholly disinterested. On the
other hand The Theosophist never made the slightest appeal, or ever
laid any claim to the national pocket. The Theosophist never asked
for one pie, nor does it hope to be pecuniarily remunerated for its
trouble and losses. I advise the Statesman to deny this, if it can.
Whence and what for then, this most sudden and unexpected
series of attacks upon us, in which the Statesman has lately so largely
indulged ? May it not be that it fears possible competition as to
remunerations received from the defended natives ? Let its
Editor, or Editors in such case, rest undisturbed on their laurels.
Neither The Theosophist nor its Editor are likely to ever sell or
prostitute their favours. The little they have to give, they give
freely, expecting nothing but ingratitude in return, for they serve
an idea, not individuals. True devotion to a cause is not to be bought
or sold ; and, for her money India might choose. Thus the States
man's insolent parallel between
"
Blavatsky
"
and
"
Jackson
" is
utterly irrelevant, being a brutal libel. It is as if seeking to establish
in The Theosophist a like comparison, we called the Editor of the
Statesman
" a British Robert Macaire."
To prove to you that I am no adventuress, and to show finally
who I am, I send you two documents1 for your private perusal.
1
[Of the two documents referred to, the letter was not published in the Bombay
Gazette as being too long, while General Fadeyefl's certificate, in an English transla
tion, is included in
"
A Personal Statement," vide p. 247 of this volume.—Ed.].
206 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
One is from my uncle, General Fadeyeff, Assistant Minister of the
Interior at St. Petersburg, the other a private letter from Prince
Dondoukoff-Korsakoff, Governor-General of Southern Russia, with
whom I am acquainted for the last thirty-five years. The official
document testifying to my identity will be shortly published.
H. P. Blavatsky.
Bombay, Breach Candy, December gth, 1881.
A LETTER FROM MADAME BLAVATSKY
[The Statesman and Friend of India, December 27th, 1881.]
To the Editor.
Sir, —In the course of your remarks you have made in your issue
of the 17th, on the letter of my solicitors, Messrs. Sanderson and
Company, you represent yourself as aggrieved by me in the course
of an angry letter I wrote to the Bombay Gazette, when repeatedly
and grossly insulted in your columns on various dates. Deeply as
you have wronged me, and ungenerously imperfect as your retrac
tion or apology seems to me to be, I have no hesitation whatever in
expressing regret at having inaccurately connected the Statesman as
it is now conducted with the acts of a former proprietor or editor.
I am too deeply engaged in other pursuits to watch closely the
ordinary current of affairs which do not concern me or my work,
and was simply unaware of the change of proprietorship of which
you speak. I wish you could see the propriety of dissociating your
self, as completely as the London Statesman, from all sympathy
with the writer or inspirer of your recent articles—the person, who,
while animated in attacking me by private malice (itself the result
of a misapprehension of facts) has succeeded in leading you to
regard him as writing down Theosophy on public grounds.
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
Bombay, December 21.
IS IT "IDLE TO ARGUE FURTHER"?
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 4 (28), January, 1882, pp. 90-92]
Says Light, in its
"
Notes by the Way," edited by M.A. (Oxon) :—
"
The current number of The Theosophist contains an important
manifesto, which establishes and defines the ground finally taken up by
that body. Shortly put, it is one of complete antagonism to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist believes that it is possible for Spirits of the departed to
IT IS "IDLE TO ARGUE FURTHER"? 207
communicate with this earth. Whatever divergence of opinion there may
be among us in respect of other matters, we are agreed on this, the
cardinal article of our faith. Our daily experience affirms its truth. The
consentient testimony of the most experienced among us agrees that,
whether there be, or whether there be not, other agencies at work, the
Spirits we know of are human Spirits who have once lived on this earth.
To this The Theosophist returns the simple answer that we are mistaken.
No Spirits communicate with earth for the sufficient reason that they
cannot. It is idle to argue further. We can but go on our way with the
assured conviction that, whatever may be the case in the East, we find
that the departed Spirits of mankind are both able and willing to com
municate with us in the West. And no metaphysical theorising as to
what cannot be disposes in any degree of what is."
The Theosophist is forced to take exception to the form of state
ment of
" facts
"
above used. As it now stands, it is but a short
series of speculative deductions from the very superficially denned
doctrines in our
"
Fragments of Occult Truth " which give a by-no-
means complete idea of what is really taught in the doctrine, bits
of which were explained in the article now most incorrectly styled
a
" manifesto." We regret the necessity to contradict once more
our esteemed opponent, who seems to be giving up the Theosophists
in despair. But were we also to conclude it
"
idle to argue further,"
then the position taken up by us would, indeed, give rise again to
endless misinterpretations. The question of man's state after death,
the future progress of his soul, spirit and other principles —whatever
any one may call them, —was hardly touched upon in the short
article under our critic's notice. In itself the subject embraces a
field of boundless extent and of the most metaphysical intricacy,
one which would demand volumes of commentaries and explana
tions to be thoroughly sifted and understood. Yet superficially
sketched as our ideas may have been in the
"
Fragments
"—which
was but an answer to the direct questions, not to say, reproaches of
our esteemed Brother, Mr. Terry (of Australia)
—we nevertheless fail
to detect in it such passages or ideas as justify M.A. (Oxon) in
saying that our doctrine is
"
one of complete antagonism with
Spiritualism." It is not half so antagonistic as he believes it to be,
as we will try to prove.
" The Spiritualist believes that it is possible for Spirits of the
departed to communicate with this earth," says the writer . . .
" and to this The Theosophist returns the simple answer that we are
mistaken." In this sentence alone, as a kernel in a nut-shell, lies
hidden the reason of that partial antagonism. Had M.A. (Oxon),
slightly modifying the construction of the above-quoted sentence —
written instead that
"
it is possible for Spirits yet embodied on this
earth to communicate with the Spirits of the departed
"—then
208 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
would there have been hardly any antagonism at all to deplore.
What we have and do maintain is that all of the so-called
"
physical
phenomena," and the
"
materializations
"
especially, are produced
by something, to which we refuse the name of
"
Spirit." In the
words of the President of our Berhampore Branch,1
" we, Hindus
"
,—
(and along with them go the European disciples of Eastern philo
sophy)—"
are trying to spiritualize our grosser material selves, —
while the American and European Spiritualists are endeavouring in
their seance-rooms to materialize Spirits." These words of wisdom
well show the opposite tendencies of the Eastern and the Western
minds : namely, that while the former are trying to purify matter,
the latter do their best to degrade Spirit. Therefore what we say, is,
that 99 times out of 100,
" materializations
" so called, when genuine,
(and whether they be partial or complete) are produced by what we
call
" shells," and occasionally perhaps by the living medium's astral
body,—but certainly never in our humble opinion, by the
" dis
embodied
"
Spirits themselves.
While we sincerely regret this divergence of opinion with Light,
we feel inclined to smile at the naxveti of some other Spiritualist
opponents ; as, for instance, at that of the editor of the London
Spiritualist, who, in his leading editorial of November 18th, entitled
"
Speculation-Spinning,"2 calls the bits of occult doctrine given in
our
"
Fragments
"—"unscientific ;
"
reproaching the writer (than
whom there is no abler metaphysician, nor closer or more acute and
clever logician among Anglo-Indian writers) with a want of
" sci
entific method
"
in the presentation of his facts ! At the same time,
the editorial informs us that by
"
facts
"
it does not
"
necessarily
mean physical facts, for there are demonstrable truths outside the
realms of physics." Precisely. And it is upon evidence which we
" have weighed and examined
" for ourselves, that we maintain the
demonstrability of the deductions and final conclusions at which we
have arrived. These we preach but to those who really want to
know them. As none, they say, are so blind as they who will not
see, we abstain from offering our doctrines to such as find them
offensive —among whom are some Spiritualists. But to the masses
of impartial readers whose minds are not yet wedded to this or the
other theory, we present our facts and tell them to see, hear, and
judge for themselves ; and, there have been some who did not find
our theories merely a
"
speculation-spinning
" based upon hypo
theses and the crass sentimentalism of a faith
—welcome, because of
its implied promises of a life hereafter —but theories resting upon
the logical and stern deduction from facts, which constitute in them-
1 Babu Nobin Krishna Banerjee, President of the Adhi Bhoutic Bhratru Theo-
sophical Society.
8 To be answered in our February Number.
IT IS " IDLE TO ARGUE FURTHER "
? 209
selves a knowledge Now, what are these facts, and what do they
show and teach us ? First of all, and as a rule—to which the rare
exceptions but confirm it the more —we find, that the so-called
" disembodied spirits," instead of having become the wiser for being
rid of the physiological impediments and the restraints of their gross
material senses, would seem to have become far more stupid, far
less perspicacious and, in every respect, worse than they were during
their earthly life. Secondly, we have to take note of the frequent
contradictions, and absurd blunders ; of the false information
offered, and the remarkable vulgarity and common-place exhibited
during their interviews with mortals—in materializing siances their
oral utterances being invariably vulgar common-place, and their
inspirational speeches or second-hand communication through trance
and other mediums —frequently so. Adding to this the undeniable
fact which shows their teachings reflecting most faithfully the special
creed, views, and thoughts of the sensitive or medium used by them,
or of a sitter or sitters, we have already sufficient proof to show that
our theory that they are
" shells
" and no disembodied spirits at all,
is far more logical and
" scientific
"
than that of the Spiritualists.1
Speaking here in general, we need not take into consideration excep
tional cases, instances of undeniable spiritual identity with which we
are sure to find our arguments met by our spiritual opponents. No
one ever thought of calling
"
Imperator-f
" a
" shell
"
; but then
the latter, whether a living or a disembodied spirit, neither material
izes himself objectively, nor is it yet proved to the satisfaction of
any one except M.A. (Oxon) himself that "he" descends to the
medium, instead of the spirit of the latter ascending to meet his
instructor.
Thus, we maintain that
"
spirits
" are no more what they claim
to be, than the chrysalis shell is the butterfly which left it. That
their personations of various individuals, whom they sometimes
represent, are mostly due to the accidental contact of an
"
Ele
mentary
" or Eidolon (attracted by the medium and the intense
magnetic desire of the circle present) with the personal aura of that
or another individual. The thoughts of the latter, the various acts
and scenes in his past life, the familiar and beloved faces of his
departed ones, are then all drawn out of the all-containing depths
of the Astral Light and utilized. At times this is done successfully,
but frequently the thing proves a total failure. Only while the
1 We will not go to the trouble of showing how much or rather how little of
" scientific method
" is to be generally found in the Spiritualist. But while speaking
of science and its methods, we may simply remark that though both our theories
(theosophical and spiritualistic) are sure to be viewed by the men of science as
"
speculation-spinning
"
and metaphysical windmills, yet the hypotheses of Spiritual
ists—as broadly accepted and whether
"
scientifically
"
or unscientifically stated —
are certain to be pronounced by the majority of men of real science, not merely un
scientific, but very unphilosophical, and illogical as well.
o
2io THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
former are, as a rule, recorded, the mention of the latter is tacitly
avoided, —no spiritualistic journal having ever been edited with
that special view. So much for materialization and physical phe
nomena. As for the rest, we are at one with the Spiritualists with
but slight variances, more of form than of substance. What we
believe in, is pretty well denned in the editorial which precedes the
article
" Church Congress and Spiritualism
"
(see p. 173), and need
not be again enumerated.
ESOTERIC AXIOMS AND SPIRITUAL
SPECULATIONS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 4 (28), January, 1882, pp. 92-93]
In a lengthy review of A. Lillie's book, Buddha and Early Bud
dhism, by M.A. (Oxon), our esteemed friend, the critic, takes the
opportunity for another quiet little fling at his well-wishers, the
Theosophists. On the authority (?) of Mr. Lillie, who seems to know
all about it, the reviewer contradicts and exposes the assertions
made and theories enunciated by the Theosophists. We will now
quote from his review
"
Buddhism and Western Thought," published
in the October number of the Psychological Review
:
"It will be evident to any reader, who has followed me so far, that the
Buddhist belief
is
permeated by what
I
have described as
a
distinctive,
'
a peculiar note of Modern Spiritualism —the presence and guardianship
of
departed spirits
'
(!
?)
1
I
confess that this struck me with some surprise,
and,
I
may say, pleased surprise, for
I
had come to think that there was
a
marked antagonism between Eastern and Western modes of thought
and belief on this point. We have heard much in disparagement
of
this
special article
of
faith from some friends who have told us
a
great deal about
the theosophical beliefs
of
the Hindus, and who have chanted the praises
of
the Buddhistic as against the Christian faith with vehement laudation
of
the
one, and with abundant scorn
of
the other. .
.
. But be this as
it
may, we
have been told so often, that we have come to accept
it
as a lesson from
those who know better than ourselves, that our Western belief in the
action of departed human spirits in this world of ours
is
a
crazy fallacy.
We have believed, at least, that such was the Eastern creed. For ourselves,
we (some of us at least) prefer our own experience to the instructions of
any whose dogmatic statements are so sweeping as those with which we
are met from Eastern experts. The statements and claims made have
seemed to us altogether too vast. It may be, we are driven to think, that
departed spirits do not operate in the East, but at any rate we find that
they do act in the West. And while we are far from declining to recognize
1
The italics and points of exclamation are ours. We would like to know what
the learned priests of Ceylon, the lights of Buddhism, such as Sumangala Unnanse,
would have to say to this
?
ESOTERIC AXIOMS AND SPIRITUAL SPECULATIONS 211
the truth that pervades much of the Spiritualism of the East, and have
tried our best to induce our friends to widen their view by adopting it in
some degree, we have been sad to think that it should so absolutely
contradict the experience of the West.
Mr. Lillie affords me some consolation. I find throughout his book
not only most instructive variety of opinion, which I can correlate with
my own beliefs and theories to benefit and advantage, but I find that the
belief in the intervention of departed human spirits, which we had all of
us imagined to be anathema maranatha in the East, is, in effect, a per
meating principle of Buddhism in his estimation !
"—(Part II, p. 174.)
The writer, after that, proceeds to speak of
"
Buddhistic Spiritu
alism
"
... a "root-principle" of which is "a belief that the
living may be brought en rapport with their departed friends ;
"
of
adepts being
"
highly developed mediums ;
"
and quotes an interest
ing clause from a chapter of Mr. Lillie's book. Says the last-named
authority :
"
I have dwelt at length on this supernaturalism, because it is of the
highest importance to our theme. Buddhism was plainly an elaborate
apparatus to nullify the action of evil spirits by the aid of good spirits operat
ing at their highest potentiality, through the instrumentality of the corpse, or
a portion of the corpse of the chief aiding spirit. The Buddhist temple, the
Buddhist rites, the Buddhist liturgy, all seem based on this one idea that
a whole or portions of a dead body was necessary. What were these
assisting spirits ? Every Buddhist, ancient or modern, would admit at
once that a spirit that has not yet attained the Bodily or Spiritual awak-
enment cannot be a good spirit. It is still in the domains of Kama (death,
appetite).1 It can do no good thing ; more than that, it must do evil
things. . . . The answer of Northern Buddhism, if we consult such books
as the White Lotus of Dharma and the Lalita Vistara, is that the good
spirits are the Buddhas, the dead prophets. They come from the
'
fields
of the Buddhas
1
to commune with earth."
For all this M.A. (Oxon) rejoices, as he thinks it corroborates the
Spiritual theories and is calculated to confound the Theosophists.
We, however, are afraid that it will confound, in the end, but Mr.
Lillie.
"
The life of Buddha is permeated," says the reviewer,
" with what seems to me uncompromising Spiritualism . . . ;
" and
in triumph adds :
"
It is a significant fact that throughout this
elucidation of Buddhistic Spiritualism we have not once come upon
an Elemental or Elementary Spirit."
No wonder since they have in Buddhistic and Brahmanical Eso-
tericism their own special and technical names whose significance,
Mr. Lillie—if he understood their meaning as correctly as he did the
word Kama —was just the person to overlook, or include in the
1 We have not read Mr. Lillie's book ; but if he teaches in it many other things
no truer than his idea that Kama means
" Death," his authority is likely to prove of
a most fragile kind. Kama never meant death, but lust, desire ; in this sense—a
passionate desire to live again.
212 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
generic name of
"
Spirits." We will not try to personally argue out
the vexed question with our friend, M.A. (Oxon), as our voice
might have no more authority with him than Mr. Lillie's has with
us. But we will tell him what we have done. As soon as his able
review reached us, we marked it throughout, and sent both the
numbers of the magazine containing it, to be, in their turn, re
viewed and corrected by two authorities. We have the weakness to
believe that these Specialists in the matter of esoteric Buddhism
may be regarded as far greater than Mr. Lillie or any other European
authority is likely to ever be ; for these two are :— (i) H. Sumangala
Unnanse, Buddhist High Priest of Adam's Peak, Ceylon, the teacher
of Mr. Rhys Davids, a member of our General Council and the most
learned expounder of Southern Buddhism ; and (2) the Chohan-
Lama of Rinch-cha-tze (Tibet) the Chief of the Archive-registrars of
the secret Libraries of the Dalai and Ta-shu-hlumpo-Lamas-Rim-
boche, —also a member of our Society. The latter, moreover, is a
" Pan-chhen," or great teacher, one of the most learned theologians
of Northern Buddhism and esoteric Lamaism. From the latter we
have already received the promise of showing how very erroneous
are, in every case, the views of both, the author and his reviewer,
the message being accompanied by a few remarks to the address of
the former which would have hardly nattered his vanity as an
author. The High Priest Sumangala, we hope, will give his ideas
upon
"
Buddhistic Spiritualism
"
as well, as soon as he finds leisure
—no easy matter, by the way, considering his engagements. If the
authority and learning of Mr. Lillie, after that, will still be placed
higher than that of the two most learned Buddhist expounders of
Southern and Northern Buddhism of our day, then we will have
nothing more to say.
Meanwhile, none will deny that esoteric Buddhism and Brah-
manism are one, for the former is derived from the latter. It is well-
known that, the most important feature of [his] reform, perhaps, was
that Buddha made adeptship or enlightenment (through the dhyana
practices of Iddhi) open to all, whereas the Brahmans had been
jealously excluding all men without the pale of their own haughty
caste from this privilege of learning the perfect truth. Therefore, in
the present connection we will give the ideas of a learned Brahman
upon Spiritualism as viewed from the esoteric stand-point. The
author of the article which follows, than whom, no layman, perhaps,
in India is better versed in the Brahmanical Occult Sciences out
side the inner conclave of the adepts —reviews in it the seven-fold
principle in man, as given in " Fragments of Occult Truth," and estab
lishes for that purpose an exhaustive comparison between the two
esoteric doctrines—the Brahmanical and Buddhistic —which he
considers
"
substantially identical." His letter was written at our
*'
THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN "
213
personal request, with no view to polemics, the writer himself being
probably very far from the thought while answering it that it would
ever be published. Having obtained his permission, however, to
that effect, we now gladly avail ourselves of the opportunity. Be
sides being the best review we are likely to ever obtain upon so
abstruse a subject, it will show M.A. (Oxon), and our other friends,
the Spiritualists, how far such authors as Mr. Lillie have seized the
"
root-principle
" of the Asiatic religions and philosophy. At all
events the readers will be enabled to judge, how much modern
Spiritualism, as now expounded, is
" a permeating principle
" of
Brahmanism, the elder sister of Buddhism.
FOOTNOTES TO " THE ARYAN-ARHAT ESOTERIC
TENETS ON THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN
"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 4 (28), January, 1882, pp. 93-99.]
By T. Subba Row, B.A., B.L.*
.... Probably the Aryan (we shall for the present call it by that
name) and the Chaldeo-Tibetan esoteric doctrines are fundamentally
identical and the secret doctrine of the Jewish Kabalists merely an off
shoot of these. Nothing, perhaps, can be more interesting now to a
student of occult philosophy than a comparison between the two principal
doctrines above mentioned. Your letter seems to indicate two divisions
in the Chaldeo-Tibetan doctrine : (1) that of the so-called Lamaists ; and
(2) that of the so-called Arhats, (in Buddhism, Arahats, or Rahats) which
has been adopted by the Himalayan or Tibetan Brotherhood. What is
the distinction between these two systems ? Some of our ancient Brah-
manical writers have left us accounts of the main doctrines of Buddhism
and the religion and philosophy of the Arhats —the two branches of the
Tibetan esoteric doctrine being so called by them. As these accounts
generally appear in treatises of a polemical character, I cannot place
much reliance upon them.
It is now very difficult to say what was the real ancient Aryan doctrine.
If an enquirer were to attempt to answer it by an analysis and comparison
of all the various systems of esotericism prevailing in India, he will soon
be lost in a maze of obscurity and uncertainty. No comparison between
our real Brahmanical and the Tibetan esoteric doctrines will be possible
unless one ascertains the teachings of that so-called
"
Aryan doctrine,"
. . . and fully comprehends the whole range of the ancient Aryan philo
sophy. Kapila's
"
Sankhya," Patanjali's
"
Yog philosophy," the different
systems of
"
Saktaya
"
philosophy, the various Agamas and Tantras are
but branches of it. There is a doctrine though, which is their real founda
tion and which is sufficient to explain the secrets of these various systems
* We give but extracts from the long letter of the above-named
gentleman.
214 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
of philosophy and harmonize their teachings. It probably existed long
before the Vedas were compiled, and it was studied by our ancient Rishis
in connotation with the Hindu scriptures. It is attributed to one
mysterious personage called Maha.1 . . .
The Upanishads and such portions of the Vedas as are not chiefly
devoted to the public ceremonials of the ancient Aryans are hardly in
telligible without some knowledge of that doctrine. Even the real signi
ficance of the grand ceremonials referred to in the Vedas will not be
perfectly apprehended without its light being thrown upon them. . . .
The Vedas were perhaps compiled mainly for the use of the priests assist
ing at public ceremonies, but the grandest conclusions of our real secret
doctrine are therein mentioned. I am informed by persons competent to
judge of the matter, that the Vedas have a distinct dual meaning—one
expressed by the literal sense of the words, the other indicated by the metre
and the swara which are, as it were, the life of the Vedas. . . . Learned
Pundits and philologists, of course, deny that Swara has anything to do
with philosophy or ancient esoteric doctrines. But the mysterious
connection between Swara and light is one of its most profound secrets.
Now it is extremely difficult to show whether the Tibetans derived their
doctrine from the ancient Rishis of India, or the ancient Brahmans
learned their occult science from the adepts of Tibet ; or again whether
the adepts of both countries professed originally the same doctrine and
derived it from a common source. If you were to go to the Sramana
Balagula and question some of the Jain Pundits there about the authorship
of the Vedas and the origin of the Brahmanical esoteric doctrine, they would
probably tell you that the Vedas were composed by Rakshasas2 or Thytyas,
and that the Brahmans had derived their secret knowledge from them,3
Do these assertions mean that the Vedas and the Brahmanical esoteric
teachings had their origin in the lost Atlantis—the continent that once
occupied a considerable portion of the expanse of the Southern and the
Pacific oceans ? Your assertion in Isis Unveiled that Sanskrit was the
language of the inhabitants of the said continent, may induce one to
suppose that the Vedas had probably their origin there,—wherever else
might be the birth-place of the Aryan esotericism.* But the real esoteric
1
The very title of the present chief of the Esoteric Himalayan
Brotherhood.
* A kind of demons —Devil.
3
And so would the Christian padris. But they would never admit
that their
"
fallen angels
"
were borrowed from the RaksJmsas ; that
their
" Devil
"
is the illegitimate son of Dewel —the Sinhalese female
demon, or that the
"
War in Heaven
" of the Apocalypse —the
foundation of the Christian dogma of the
"
Fallen Angels
"—was
copied from the Hindu story about Siva hurling the Tarakasurs who
rebelled against Brahma into Andhahkar—the abode of Darkness,
according to Brahmanical Shastras.
4
Not necessarily. —See Appendix, Note II. From rare MSS. just
received, we will shortly prove Sanskrit to have been spoken in Java
and adjacent islands from remote antiquity.
"
THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN "
215
doctrine as well as the mystic allegorical philosophy of the Vedas were
derived from another source, again, whatever that source may be—per
chance, from the divine inhabitant-gods —of the sacred Island which, as
you say, once existed in the sea that covered in days of old the sandy
tract now called Gobi Desert. However that may be, the knowledge of
the occult powers of nature possessed by the inhabitants of the lost Atlantis
was learnt by the ancient adepts of India and was appended by them to
the esoteric doctrine taught by the residents of the sacred Island.1 The
Tibetan adepts, however, have not accepted this addition to their esoteric
doctrine. And, it is in this respect that one should expect to find a
difference between the two doctrines.2
The Brahmanical occult doctrine probably contains every thing that
was taught about the powers of nature and their laws, either in the
mysterious Island of the North, or in the equally mysterious continent of
the South. And, if you mean to compare the Aryan and the Tibetan
doctrines as regards their teachings about the occult powers of nature,
you must beforehand examine all the classifications of these powers, their
laws and manifestations and the real connotations of the various names
assigned to them in the Aryan doctrine Here are some of the classifica
tions contained in the Brahmanical system :
I. Classification of the occult powers as appertaining to Parabrah-
man and existing in the Macrocosm.
II. Classification of the as appertaining to man and existing in
occult powers the Microcosm.
III. do. do. for the purposes of Tharaka Yog or
Pranava Yog.
for the purposes of Sankhya Yog (where
they are, as it were, the inherent attri
butes of Prakriti).
for the purposes of Hata Yog.
for the purposes of Koula Agama.
for the purposes of Sakta Agama.
for the purposes of Siva Agama.
for the purposes of Sreechakram. (The
Sreechakram you referred to in Isis Un
veiled is not the real esoteric Sreechakram
of the ancient adepts of Aryavarta.)3
in Atharvana Veda, &c.
In all these classifications, subdivisions have been multiplied indefi
nitely by conceiving new combinations of the Primary Powers in different
1
A locality which is spoken of to this day by the Tibetans and
called by them
"
Scham-bha-la," the Happy Land. —See Appendix,
Note III.
2
To comprehend this passage fully, the reader must turn to Vol. I,
pp. 589-594, of Isis Unveiled.
3
Very true. But who would be allowed to give out the
" real
esoteric one
" ?
IV. do. do.
V. do. do.
VI. do. do.
VII. do. do.
VIII. do. do.
IX. do. do.
X. do. do.
2i6 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
proportions. But I must now drop this subject and proceed to consider
the article headed " Fragments of Occult Truth," in the October number
of The Theosophist.
I have carefully examined it and find that the results arrived at (in
the Buddhist doctrine) do not seem to differ much from the conclusions
of our Aryan philosophy, though our mode of stating the arguments may
differ in form. I shall now discuss the question from my own standpoint,
though following for facility of comparison and convenience of discussion
the sequence of classification of the seven-fold entities of Principles con
stituting man which is adopted in your article. The questions raised for
discussion are (i) whether the disembodied spirits of human beings (as
they are called by Spiritualists) appear in the seawce-rooms and else
where ; and (2) whether the manifestations taking place are produced
wholly or partly through their agency.
It is hardly possible to answer these two questions satisfactorily unless
the meaning intended to be conveyed by the expression
"
disembodied
spirits of human beings
" be accurately defined. The words Spiritualism
and Spirit are very misleading. Unless English writers in general, and
Spiritualists in particular, first ascertain clearly the connotation they mean
to assign to the word spirit there will be no end of confusion, and the real
nature of these so-called spiritualistic phenomena and their modus occur-
rendi can never be clearly defined. Christian writers generally speak of
only two entities in man—the body, and the soul or spirit (both seeming
to mean the same thing to them). European philosophers generally speak
of Body and Mind, and argue that soul or spirit cannot be anything else
than mind. They are of opinion that any belief in Linga-sariram1 is
entirely unphilosophical. These views are certainly incorrect, and are
based on unwarranted assumptions as to the possibilities of nature, and
on an imperfect understanding of its laws. I shall now examine (from
the standpoint of the Brahmanical esoteric doctrine) the Spiritual consti
tution of man, the various entities or principles existing in him, and
ascertain whether either of those entities entering into his composition
can appear on earth after his death ; and, if so, what is it that so appears.
You have read some of Professor Tyndall's excellent papers on what
he calls
"
Germ Theory," giving the facts ascertained by his experiments.
His conclusions may be briefly stated thus :—Even in a very small volume
of space there are myriads of protoplasmic germs floating in ether. If,
for instance, say,-—water (clear water) is exposed to them and if they
fall into it, some form of life or other will be evolved out of them. Now,
what are the agencies for the bringing of this life into existence ? Evi
dently :—
I. The water, which is the field, so to say, for the growth of life.
II. The protoplasmic germ, out of which life or a living organism is to
be evolved or developed. And, lastly —
III. The power, energy, force or tendency which springs into activity
at the touch or combination of the protoplasmic germ and the water, and
which evolves or develop life and its natural attributes.
Similarly, there are three primary causes which bring the human being
1
The Astral Body —so called.
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN
"
217
into existence. I shall call them for the purpose of discussion by the
following names :—
(1) Parabrahman —The Universal Spirit.
(2) Sakti (the crown of the astral light combining in itself all the
powers of nature).
(3) Prakriti, which in its original or primary shape is represented by
Akasa (really, every form of matter is finally reducible to Akasa).1
It is ordinarily stated that Prakriti or Akasa is the Kshatratn or the
basis which corresponds to water in the example we have taken : Brah
man the germ, and Sakti the power or energy that comes into existence
at their union or contact.2
But this is not the view which the Upanishads take of the question.
According to them, Brahman3 is the Kshairam or basis, Akasa or Prakriti,
the germ or seed, and Sakti the power evolved by their union or contact.
And this is the real scientific, philosophical mode of stating the case.
Now, according to the adepts of ancient Aryavarta, seven principles are
evolved out of these three primary entities. Algebra teaches us that the
number of combinations of n things taken one at a time, two at a time,
three at a time and so forth=2"= 1.
Applying this formula to the present case, the number of entities
evolved from different combinations of these three primary causes
amounts to 23= 1=8 = 1=7.
1
The Tibetan esoteric Buddhist doctrine teaches that Prakriti is
cosmic matter, out of which all visible forms are produced ; and
Akasa that same cosmic matter,—but still more imponderable, its
spirit, as it were,
"
Prakriti
"
being the body or substance, and Akasa-
Sakti its soul or energy.
2 Or, in other words,
" Prakriti, Swabhavat or Akasa is—Space as
the Tibetans have it ; Space filled with whatsoever substance or no
substance at all ; i.e. with substance so imponderable as to be only
metaphysically conceivable. Brahma, then, would be the germ
thrown into the soil of that field, and Sakti, that mysterious energy
or force which develops it, and which is called by the Buddhist
Arahats of Tibet —Fo-HAT.
" That which we call form (rupa) is not
different from that which we call space (Sunyata). . . . Space is not
different from Form. Form is the same as Space ; Space is the same
as Form. And so with the other skandhas, whether vedana, or sanjra,
or sanskara or vijnana, they are each the same as their opposite."
. . . (Book of Sin-king or the
"
Heart Sutra." Chinese translations
of the Maha-Prajna-Paramita-Hridaya-Sutra. Chapter on the Ava-
lokiteshwara, or the manifested, Buddha.) So that, the Aryan and
Tibetan or Arhat doctrines agree perfectly in substance, differing but
in names given and the way of putting it, a distinction resulting
from the fact that the Vedantin Brahmans believe in Parabrahman,
a deific power, impersonal though it may be, while the Buddhists
entirely reject it.
3
See Appendix, Note IV.
218 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
As a general rule, whenever seven entities are mentioned in the ancient
occult science of India, in any connection whatsoever, you must suppose
that those seven entities came into existence from three primary entities ;
and that these three entities again, are evolved out of a single entity or
Monad. To take a familiar example, the seven coloured rays in the solar
ray are evolved out of three primary coloured rays ; and the three primary
colours co-exist with the four secondary colours in the solar rays.
Similarly, the three primary entities which brought man into existence
co-exist in him with the four secondary entities which arose from different
combinations of the three primary entities.
Now these seven entities which in their totality constitute man, are as
follows :—I shall enumerate them in the order adopted in your article, as
far as the two orders (the Brahmanical and the Tibetan) coincide :—
Corresponding names in your
classification.
Sthulasariran (Physical Body).
Sukshmasariran or Linga-sariran
(Astral Body).
Kamarupa (the Perisprit).
Jivatma (Life-Soul).
Physical Intelligence (or animal
soul).
Spiritual Intelligence (or Soul).
The emanation from the Absolute,
&c. (or pure spirit).
Before proceeding to examine the nature of these seven entities, a few
general explanations are indispensably necessary.
I. The secondary principles arising out of the combination of primary
principles are quite different in their nature from the entities out of whose
combination they came into existence. The combinations in question are
not of the nature of mere mechanical juxtapositions, as it were. They do
not even correspond to chemical combinations. Consequently no valid
inferences as regards the nature of the combinations in question, can be
drawn by analogy from the nature [make-up] of these combinations.
II. The general proposition that when once a cause is removed its
effect vanishes, is not universally applicable. Take, for instance, the
following example :— if you once communicate a certain amount of
momentum to a ball, velocity of a particular degree in a particular direc
tion is the result. Now, the cause of this motion ceases to exist when the
instantaneous sudden impact or blow which conveyed the momentum is
completed ; but, according to the first Law of Motion, the ball will continue
I. Prakriti.
II. The entity evolved 1
out of the combina- \
tion of Prakriti and f
Sakti J
III. Sakti.
IV. The entity evolved
out of the combina
tion of Brahman, Sakti
and Prakriti.
V. Do.
Brahman and Prakriti.
VI. Do.
Brahman and Sakti.
VII. Brahman.
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN
to move on for ever and ever with undiminished velocity in the same
direction unless the said motion is altered, diminished, neutralized or
counteracted by extraneous causes. Thus, if the ball stop, it will not be
on account of the absence of the cause of its motion, but in consequence
of the existence of extraneous causes which produce the said result.
Again, take the instance of subjective phenomena.
Now the presence of this ink-bottle before me is producing in me or in
my mind a mental representation of its form, volume, colour and so forth.
The bottle in question may be removed, but still its mental picture may
continue to exist. Here, again, you see, the effect survives the cause.
Moreover, the effect may at any subsequent time be called into conscious
existence, whether the original cause be present or not.
Now, in the case of the fifth principle above-mentioned— the entity
that came into existence by the combination of Brahman and Prakriti, —
if the general proposition (in the
"
Fragments of Occult Truth ") is correct,
this principle which corresponds to the physical intelligence must cease to
exist whenever the Brahman or the seventh principle should cease to exist
for the particular individual ; but the fact is certainly otherwise. You
stated the general proposition under consideration in support of your
assertion that whenever the seventh principle ceases to exist for any
particular individual the sixth principle also ceases to exist for him. The
assertion is undoubtedly true though the mode of stating it and the
reasons assigned for it are to my mind objectionable.
You said that in cases where tendencies of a man's mind are entirely
material, and all spiritual aspirations and thoughts were altogether absent
from his mind, the seventh principle leaves him either before or at the
time of death, and the sixth principle disappears with it. Here, the very
proposition that the tendencies of the particular individual's mind are
entirely material, involves the assertion that there is no spiritual intelli
gence or spiritual Ego in him. You should then have said that, whenever
spiritual intelligence should cease to exist in any particular individual,
the seventh principle ceases to exist for that particular individual for all
purposes. Of course, it does not fly off anywhere. There can never be
any thing like a change of position in the case of Brahman -1 The asser
tion merely means that when there is no recognition whatever of Brahman,
or spirit, or spiritual life, or spiritual consciousness, the seventh principle
has ceased to exercise any influence or control over the individual's
destinies.
I shall now state what is meant (in the Aryan doctrine) by the seven
principles above enumerated.
I. Prakriti. —This is the basis of Sthulasariram and represents it in the
above-mentioned classification.
1
True —from the standpoint of Aryan Esotericism, and the Upani-
shads ; not quite so in the case of the Arahat or Tibetan esoteric
doctrine ; and it is only on this one solitary point that the two
teachings disagree, as far as we know. The difference is very trifling
though, resting, as it does, solely upon the two various methods of
viewing the one and the same thing from two different aspects. —See
Appendix, Note IV.
220 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
II. Prakriti and Sakti. —This is the Lingasariran, or astral body.
III. Sakti. —This principle corresponds to your Kamarupa. This
power or force is placed by ancient occultists in the Nabhichakram. This
power can gather akasa or prakriti and mould it into any desired shape.
It has very great sympathy with the fifth principle, and can be made to
act by its influence or control.
IV. Brahman, Sakti and Prakriti. —This again corresponds to your
second principle, Jivattna. This power represents the universal life-
principle which exists in nature. Its seat is the Anahatachakram (heart).
It is a force or power which constitutes what is called Jiva, or life. It is,
as you say, indestructible, and its activity is merely transferred at the
time of death to another set of atoms, to form another organism. But it
is not called Jivatma in our philosophy. The term Jivattna is generally
applied by our philosophers to the seventh principle when it is dis
tinguished from Paramatma or Parabrahman ^
V. Brahman and Prakriti. —This, in our Aryan philosophy, corresponds
to your fifth principle, called the physical intelligence. According to our
philosophers, this is the entity in which what is called Mind has its seat
or basis. This is the most difficult principle of all to explain, and the
present discussion entirely turns upon the view we take of it.
Now, what is mind ? It is a mysterious something which is considered
to be the seat of consciousness —of sensations, emotions, volitions and
thoughts. Psychological analysis shows it to be apparently a congeries
of mental states, and possibilities of mental states, connected by what is
called memory, and, considered to have a distinct existence apart from
any of its particular mental states or ideas. Now in what entity has this
mysterious something its potential or actual existence ? Memory and
expectation which form, as it were, the real foundation of what is called
individuality, or Ahankaran, must have their seat of existence somewhere.
Modern psychologists of Europe generally say that the material substance
of Brain is the seat of mind ; and that past subjective experiences, which
can be recalled by memory, and which in their totality constitute what is
called individuality, exist therein in the shape of certain unintelligible
mysterious impressions and changes in the nerves and nerve-centres of
the cerebral hemispheres. Consequently, they say, the mind —the indi
vidual mind —is destroyed when the body is destroyed ; so there is no
possible existence after death.
But there are a few facts among those admitted by these philosophers
which are sufficient for us to demolish their theory. In every portion of
the human body, a constant change goes on without intermission. Every
tissue, every muscular fibre and nerve-tube, and every ganglionic centre
in the brain is undergoing an incessant change. In the course of a man's
lifetime there may be a series of complete transformations of the substance
1
The Impersonal Parabrahman thus being made to merge or
separate itself into a personal "jivatma," or the personal god of every
human creature. This is, again, a difference necessitated by the
Brahmanical belief in a God whether personal or impersonal, while
the Buddhist Arahats, rejecting this idea entirely, recognize no deity
apart from man. —See Appendix, Note V.
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN
"
221
of his Brain. Nevertheless the memory of his past mental state remains
unaltered. There may be additions of new subjective experiences and
some mental states may be altogether forgotten, but no individual mental
state is altered. The person's sense of individuality remains the same
throughout these constant alterations in the brain substance. [This is
also sound Buddhist philosophy, the transformation in question being
known as the changes of the skandhas. —Ed. Theos.] It is able to survive
all these changes, and it can survive also the complete destruction of the
material substance of the brain.
This individuality arising from mental consciousness has its seat of
existence, according to our philosophers, in an occult power or force which
keeps a registry, as it were, of all our mental impressions. The power
itself is indestructible, though by the operation of certain antagonistic
causes its impressions may in course of time be effaced, in part or wholly.
I may mention in this connection that our philosophers have associated
seven occult powers with the seven principles or entities above-mentioned.
These seven occult powers in the microcosm correspond with, or are the
counterparts of the occult powers in the macrocosm. The mental and
spiritual consciousness of the individual becomes the general conscious
ness of Brahman when the barrier of individuality is wholly removed, and
when the seven powers in the microcosm are placed en rapport with the
seven powers in the macrocosm.
There is nothing very strange in a power or force, or sakti carrying with
it impressions of sensations, ideas, thoughts, or other subjective experi
ences. It is now a well-known fact, that an electric or magnetic current
can convey in some mysterious manner impressions of sound or speech
with all their individual peculiarities ; similarly, you know very well that
I can convey my thoughts to you by a transmission of energy or power.
Now this fifth principle represents in our philosophy, the mind, or, to
speak more correctly, the power or force above described, the impressions
of the mental states therein, and the notion of individuality or Ahankara
generated by their collective operation. This principle is called merely
physical intelligence in your article. I do not know what is really meant
by this expression. It may be taken to mean that intelligence which
exists in a very low state of development in the lower animals. Mind
may exist in different stages of development, from the very lowest forms
of organic life, where the signs of its existence or operation can hardly be
distinctly realized, up to man, in whom it reaches its highest state of
development.
In fact, from the first appearance of life1 up to Turiya Avaslha, or the
state of Nirvana, the progress is, as it were, continuous. We ascend from
that principle up to the seventh by almost imperceptible gradations. But
four stages are recognized in the progress where the change is of a peculiar
kind, and is such as to arrest an observer's attention. These four stages
are as follows :—
1
In the Aryan doctrine which blends Brahman, Sakti, and Pra-
kriti in one, it is the fourth principle, then ; in the Buddhist esoteri-
cism the second in combination with the first.
222 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
(1) Where life (fourth principle) makes its appearance.
(2) Where the existence of mind becomes perceptible in conjunction
with life.
(3) Where the highest state of mental abstraction ends, and spiritual
consciousness commences.
(4) Where spiritual consciousness disappears, leaving the seventh
principle in a complete state of Nirvana, or nakedness.
According to our philosophers, the fifth principle under consideration
is intended to represent the mind in every possible state of development, from
the second stage up to the third stage.
VI. Brahman and Sakti. —This principle corresponds to your
"
spiritual
intelligence." It is, in fact, Buddhi (I use the word Buddhi not in the
ordinary sense, but in the sense in which it is used by our ancient philo
sophers) ; in other words, it is the seat of Bodha or Atmabodha. One
who has Atmabodha in its completeness is a Buddha. Buddhists know
very well what this term signifies. This principle is described in your
article as an entity coming into existence by the combination of Brahman
and Prakriti. I do not again know in what particular sense the word
Prakriti is used in this connection. According to our philosophers it is
an entity arising from the union of Brahman and Sakti. I have already
explained the connotation attached by our philosophers to the words
Prakriti and Sakti.
I stated that Prakriti in its primary state is Aksaa.1
If Akasa be considered to be Sakti or Power by Theosophists,2 then my
statement as regards the ultimate state of Prakriti is likely to give rise to
confusion and misapprehension unless I explain the distinction between
Akasa and Sakti. Akasa is not, properly speaking, the Crown of the Astral
light, nor does it by itself constitute any of the six primary forces. But,
generally speaking, whenever any phenomenal result is produced, Sakti
acts in conjunction with Akasa. And, moreover, Akasa serves as a basis
1
According to the Buddhists in Akasa lies that eternal, potential
energy whose function it is to evolve all visible things out of itself.
2
It was never so considered, as we have shown it. But as the
"
Fragments
" are written in English, a language lacking such an
abundance of metaphysical terms to express every minute change of
form, substance and state as found in the Sanskrit, it was deemed
useless to confuse the Western reader untrained in the methods of
Eastern expression —more than necessary, with a too nice distinc
tion of proper technical terms. As
"
Prakriti in its primary state is
Akasa," and Sakti
"
is an attribute of Akasa," it becomes evident
that for the uninitiated it is all one. Indeed, to speak of the
"
union
of Brahman and Prakriti
"
instead of
"
Brahman and Sakti," is no
worse than for a theist to write that
" man has come into existence
by the combination of spirit and matter," whereas, his words framed
in an orthodox shape, ought to read
" man as a living soul was
created by the power (or breath) of God over matter."
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN
"
223
or Adhishthana for the transmission of force currents and for the forma
tion or generation of force or power correlations.1
In Mantrasastra the letter Ha
"
represents Akasa, and you will find
that this syllable enters into most of the sacred formulae intended to be
used in producing phenomenal results. But by itself it does not represent
any Sakti. You may, if you please, call Sakti an attribute of Akasa.
I do not think that as regards the nature of this principle there can, in
reality, exist any difference of opinion between the Buddhist and Brah-
manical philosophers.
Buddhist and Brahmanical initiates know very well that mysterious
circular mirror composed of two hemispheres which reflects as it were
the rays emanating from the
"
burning bush
" and the blazing star—the
Spiritual sun shining in Chidakasam.
The spiritual impressions constituting this principle have their existence
in an occult power associated with the entity in question. The successive
incarnations of Buddha, in fact, mean the successive transfers of this
mysterious power or the impressions thereon. The transfer is only
possible when the Mahattna* who transfers it, has completely identified
himself with his seventh principle, has annihilated his Ahankaram and
reduced it to ashes in Chidagnikundam and has succeeded in making his
thoughts correspond with the eternal laws of nature and in becoming a
co-worker with nature. Or to put the same thing in other words, when
he has attained the state of Nirvana, the condition offinal negation, negation of
individual or separate existence.3
VII. Alma. —The emanation from the absolute ; corresponding to the
seventh principle. As regards this entity there exists positively no real
difference of opinion between the Tibetan Buddhist adepts and our
ancient Rishis.
We must now consider which of these entities can appear after the
individual's death in seance-rooms and produce the so-called spiritualistic
phenomena.
Now, the assertion of the Spiritualists that the
"
disembodied spirits
"
of particular human beings appear in seance-rooms necessarily implies
that the entity that so appears bears the stamp of some particular
individual's individuality ?
So, we have to ascertain beforehand in what entity or entities indi
viduality has its seat of existence. Apparently it exists in the person's
particular formation of body, and in his subjective experiences, (called
his mind in their totality). On the death of the individual his body is
destroyed ; his lingasariram being decomposed, the power associated
with it, becomes mingled in the current of the corresponding powers in
the macrocosm. Similarly, the third and fourth principles are mingled
1
That is to say, the Aryan Akasa is another word for Buddhist
Space (in its metaphysical meaning).
2
The highest adept.
8
In the words of a gatha in the Maha-pari-Nirvana-Sutra,
"
We reach a condition of Rest
"
Beyond the limit of any human knowledge."
224 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
with their corresponding powers. These entities may again enter into
the composition of other organisms. As these entities bear no impression
of individuality, the Spiritualists have no right to say that the
"
dis
embodied spirit" of the human being has appeared in the seance-room
whenever any of these entities may appear there. In fact, they have no
means of ascertaining that they belonged to any particular individual.
Therefore, we must only consider whether any of the last three entities
appear in seance-rooms to amuse or to instruct Spiritualists. Let us take
three particular examples of individuals and see what becomes of these
three principles after death.
I. One in whom spiritual attachments have greater force than terres
trial attachments.
II. One in whom spiritual aspirations do exist, but are merely of
secondary importance to him, his terrestrial interests occupying the
greater share of his attention.
III. One in whom there exist no spiritual aspirations whatsoever, one
whose spiritual Ego is dead or non-existent to his apprehension.
We need not consider the case of a complete Adept in this connection.
In the first two cases, according to our supposition, spiritual and mental
experiences exist together ; when spiritual consciousness exists, the
existence of the seventh principle being recognized, it maintains its con
nection with the fifth and sixth principles. But the existence of terrestrial
attachments creates the necessity of Punarjanmam, the latter signifying
the evolution of a new set of objective and subjective experiences, consti
tuting a new combination of surrounding circumstances or, in other
words, a new world. The period between death and the next subsequent
birth is occupied with the preparation required for the evolution of these
new experiences. During the period of incubation, as you call
it,
the
spirit will never of its own accord appear in this world, nor can
it
so
appear.
There
is
a
great law in this universe which consists in the reduction of
subjective experiences to objective phenomena and the evolution of the
former from the latter. This
is
otherwise called
"
cyclic necessity." Man
is
subjected to this law
if
he do not check and counterbalance the usual
destiny or fate, and he can only escape its control by subduing all his
terrestrial attachments completely. The new combination of circum
stances under which he will then be placed may be better or worse than
the terrestrial conditions under which he lived. But in his progress to a
new world, you may be sure he will never turn around to have
a
look at
his spiritualistic friends.1
In the third of the above three cases there
is
by our supposition, no
recognition of spiritual consciousness or of spirit. So they are non-
existing so far as he
is
concerned. The case
is
similar to that of an organ
of faculty which remains unused for
a
long time. It then practically ceases
to exist.
These entities, as
it
were, remain his or in his possession, when they
1
As M.A. (Oxon) will see, the Spiritualists have still less chance
of having their claims recognized by Brahmanical than by Buddhist
occultists.
"
THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN "
225
are stamped with the stamp of recognition. When such is not the case, the
whole of his individuality is centered in his fifth principle. And after
death this fifth principle is the only representative of the individual in
question.
By itself it cannot evolve for itself a new set of objective experiences,
or to say the same thing in other words, it has no punarjanmam. It is
such an entity that can appear in siance-rooms ; but it is absurd to call it a
disembodied spirit.1 It is merely a power or force retaining the impres
sions of the thoughts or ideas of the individual into whose composition it
originally entered. It sometimes summons to its aid the Kamarupa
power, and creates for itself some particular ethereal form (not necessarily
human).
Its tendencies of action will be similar to those of the individual's mind
when he was living. This entity maintains its existence so long as the
impressions on the power associated with the fifth principle remain intact.
In course of time they are effaced, and the power in question is then
mixed up in the current of its corresponding power in the Macrocosm, as
the river loses itself in the sea. Entities like these may afford signs of
there having been considerable intellectual power in the individuals to
which they belonged ; because very high intellectual power may co
exist with utter absence of spiritual consciousness. But from this circum
stance it cannot be argued that either the spirits or the spiritual Egos of
deceased individuals appear in siance-rooms.
There are some people in India who have thoroughly studied the nature
of such entities (called Pisacham). I do not know much about them
experimentally, as I have never meddled with this disgusting, profitless,
and dangerous branch of investigation.
Your Spiritualists do not know what they are really doing. Their
investigations are likely to result in course of time either in wicked
sorcery or in the utter spiritual ruin of thousands of men and women.2
The views I have herein expressed have been often illustrated by our
ancient writers by comparing the course, of a man's life or existence to
the orbital motion of a planet round the sun. Centripetal force is spiritual
attraction and centrifugal terrestrial attraction. As the centripetal force
increases in power in comparison with the centrifugal force, the planet
approaches the sun —the individual reaches a higher plane of existence.
If, on the other hand, the centrifugal force becomes greater than the
centripetal force, the planet is removed to a greater distance from the
sun, and moves in a new orbit at that distance—the individual comes to
a lower level of existence. These are illustrated in the first two instances
I have noticed above.
We have only to consider the two extreme cases.
When the planet in its approach to the sun passes over the line where
the centripetal and centrifugal forces completely neutralize each other
and is only acted on by the centripetal force, it rushes towards the sun
1
It is especially on this point that the Aryan and Arahat doctrines
quite agree. The teaching and argument that follow are, in every
respect, those of the Buddhist Himalayan Brotherhood.
2
We share entirely in this idea.
p
226 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
with a gradually increasing velocity and is finally mixed up with the
mass of the sun's body. This is the case of a complete adept.
Again, when the planet in its retreat from the sun reaches a point where
the centrifugal force becomes all-powerful it flies off in a tangential
direction from its orbit, and goes into the depths of void space. When it
ceases to be under the control of the sun, it gradually gives up its genera
tive heat and the creative energy that it originally derived from the sun
and remains a cold mass of material particles wandering through space
until the mass is completely decomposed into atoms. This cold mass is
compared to the fifth principle under the conditions above noticed, and
the heat, light, and energy that left it are compared to the sixth and
seventh principles.
Either after assuming a new orbit or in its course of deviation from the
old orbit to the new, the planet can never go back to any point in its old
orbit, as the various orbits lying in different planes never intersect each
other.
This figurative representation correctly explains the ancient Brah-
manical theory on the subject. It is merely a branch of what is called
the Great Law of the Universe by the ancient mystics. . . .
EDITORIAL APPENDIX TO THE ABOVE
Note I.
In this connection it will be well to draw the reader's attention, to
the fact that the country called
"
Si-dzang
"
by the Chinese, and
Tibet by Western geographers, is mentioned in the oldest books
preserved in the province of Fo-kien (the chief head-quarters of
the aborigines of China)
—as the great seat of occult learning in the
archaic ages. According to these records, it was inhabited by the
" Teachers of Light," the
"
Sons of Wisdom
" and the
" Brothers of
the Sun." The Emperor Yu the
"
Great
"
(2207 b.C.), a pious
mystic, is credited with having obtained his occult wisdom and the
system of theocracy established by him—for he was the first one
in China to unite ecclesiastical power with temporal authority —
from Si-dzang. That system was the same as with the old Egyptians
and the Chaldees ; that which we know to have existed in the
Brahmanical period in India, and to exist now in Tibet : namely, all
the learning, power, the temporal as well as the secret wisdom were
concentrated within the hierarchy of the priests and limited to their
caste. Who were the aborigines of Tibet is a question which no
ethnographer is able to answer correctly at present. They practise
the Bhon religion, their sect is a pre- and anti-Buddhistic one, and
they are to be found mostly in the province of Kam —that is all that
is known of them. But even that would justify the supposition that
they are the greatly degenerated descendents of mighty and wise
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN "
227
forefathers. Their ethnical type shows that they are not pure
Turanians, and their rites —now those of sorcery, incantations, and
nature-worship, remind one far more of the popular rites of the
Babylonians, as found in the records preserved on the excavated
cylinders, than of the religious practices of the Chinese sect of Tao-sse
—(a religion based upon pure reason and spirituality) —as alleged by
some. Generally, little or no difference is made even by the Kyelang
missionaries who mix greatly with these people on the borders
of British Lahoul —and ought to know better —between the Bhons
and the two rival Buddhist sects, the Yellow Caps and the
Red Caps. The latter of these have opposed the reform of Tzong-ka-
pa from the first and have always adhered to old Buddhism so greatly
mixed up now with the practices of the Bhons. Were our Orientalists
to know more of them, and compare the ancient Babylonian Bel or
Baal worship with the rites of the Bhons, they would find an un
deniable connection between the two. To begin an argument here,
proving the origin of the aborigines of Tibet as connected with one
of the three great races which superseded each other in Babylonia,
whether we call them the Akkadians (invented by F. Lenormant,)
or the primitive Turanians, Chaldees and Assyrians —is out of ques
tion. Be it as it may, there is reason to call the trans-Himalayan
esoteric doctrine, Chaldeo-Tibetan. And, when we remember that
the Vedas came —agreeably to all traditions —from the Manasorowa
Lake in Tibet, and the Brahmins themselves from the far North, we
are justified in looking on the esoteric doctrines of every people who
once had or still has it—as having proceeded from one and the same
source : and, to thus call it the
"
Aryan-Chaldeo-Tibetan
" doctrine,
or Universal Wisdom Religion.
"
Seek for the Lost Word among
the hierophants of Tartary, China and Tibet," was the advice of
Swedenborg, the seer.
Note II.
Not necessarily —we say. The Vedas, Brahmanism, and along
with these, Sanskrit, were importations into what we now regard as
India. They were never indigenous to its soil. There was a time
when the ancient nations of the West included under the generic
name of India many of the countries of Asia now classified under
other names. There was an Upper, a Lower, and a Western India,
even during the comparatively late period of Alexander ; and Persia-
Iran is called Western India in some ancient classics. The
countries now named Tibet, Mongolia, and Great Tartary were
considered by them as forming part of India. When we say, there
fore, that India has civilized the world and was the Alma Mater of
the civilizations, arts and sciences of all other nations (Babylonia,
and perhaps even Egypt, included) we mean archaic, pre-historic
228 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
India, India of the time when the great Gobi was a sea, and the lost
"
Atlantis
" formed part of an unbroken continent which began at
the Himalayas and ran down over Southern India, Ceylon, Java, to
far-away Tasmania.
Note III.
To ascertain such disputed questions, one has to look into and
study well the Chinese sacred and historical records —a people whose
era begins nearly 4,600 years back (2697 b.C.). A people so accurate
and by whom some of the most important inventions of modern
Europe and its so much boasted modern science, were anticipated —
such as the compass, gun-powder, porcelain, paper, printing, &c. —
known, and practised thousands of years before these were re
discovered by the Europeans,—ought to receive some trust for their
records. And from Lao-tze down to Hiouen-Thsang their literature
is filled with allusions and references to that island and the wisdom
of the Himalayan adepts. In the Catena of Buddhist Scriptures from
the Chinese by the Rev. Samuel Beal, there is a chapter
" On the
Tian-Ta'i School of Buddhism
"
(pp. 244-258) which our opponents
ought to read. Translating the rules of that most celebrated and
holy school and sect in China founded by Chin-che-K'hae, called
Che-chay (the wise one) in the year 575 of our era, when coming to
the sentence which reads :
"
That which relates to the one garment
(seamless) worn by the Great Teachers of the Snowy Moun
tains, the school of the Haimavatas
"
(p. 256) the European trans
lator places after the last sentence a sign of interrogation, as well he
may. The statistics of the school of the
"
Haimavatas
" or of our
Himalayan Brotherhood, are not to be found in the General Census
Records of India. Further, Mr. Beal translates a Rule relating to
"the great professors of the higher order who live in mountain
depths remote from men," the Aranyakas, or hermits.
So, with respect to the traditions concerning this island, and apart
from the (to them) historical records of this preserved in the Chinese
and Tibetan Sacred Books : the legend is alive to this day among the
people of Tibet. The fair Island is no more, but the country where
it once bloomed remains there still, and the spot is well known to
some of the
" great teachers of the snowy mountains," however much
convulsed and changed its topography by the awful cataclysm.
Every seventh year, these teachers are believed to assemble in
Scham-bha-la, the
"
happy land." According to the general belief
it is situated in the north-west of Tibet. Some place it within the
unexplored central regions, inaccessible even to the fearless nomadic
tribes ; others hem it in between the range of the Gangdisri Moun
tains and the northern edge of the Gobi Desert, South and North, and
the more populated regions of Khoondooz and Kashmir, of the Gya
" THE SEVENFOLD PRINCIPLE IN MAN "
229
Pheling (British India), and China, West and East, which affords to
the curious mind a pretty large latitude to locate it in. Others still
place it between Namur Nur and the Kuen-Lun Mountains —but
one and all firmly believe in Scham-bha-la, and speak of it as a fertile,
fairy-like land, once an island, now an oasis of incomparable beauty,
the place of meeting of the inheritors of the esoteric wisdom of the
god-like inhabitants of the legendary Island.
In connection with the archaic legend of the Asian Sea and the
Atlantic Continent, is it not profitable to note a fact known to all
modern geologists —that the Himalayan slopes afford geological
proof, that the substance of those lofty peaks was once a part of an
ocean floor ?
Note IV.
We have already pointed out that, in our opinion, the whole
difference between Buddhistic and Vedantic philosophies was that
the former was a kind of Rationalistic Vedantism, while the latter
might be regarded as transcendental Buddhism. If the Aryan
esotericism applies the term jivatma to the seventh principle, the
pure and per se unconscious spirit —it is because the Vedanta
postulating three kinds of existence —
(1)
the paramarthika,—(the
true, the only real one,) (2), the vyavaharika (the practical), and (3)
the pratibhasika (the apparent or illusory life)
—makes the first life
or jiva, the only truly existent one. Brahma or the one self
is
its
only representative in the universe, as
it
is
the universal life in toto
while the other two are but its
"
phenomenal appearances," imagined
and created by ignorance, and complete illusions suggested to us by
our blind senses. The Buddhists, on the other hand, deny either
subjective or objective reality even to that one Self-Existence.
Buddha declares that there
is
neither Creator nor an Absolute
Being. Buddhist rationalism was ever too alive to the insuperable
difficulty of admitting one absolute consciousness, as in the words
of Flint —"wherever there
is
consciousness there
is
relation, and
wherever there
is
relation there
is
dualism." The One Life
is
either
" mukta
"
(absolute and unconditioned) and can have no relation
to anything nor to any one
;
or
it
is
" Baddha "
(bound and con
ditioned), and then
it
cannot be called the absolute
;
the limitation,
moreover, necessitating another deity as powerful as the first to
account for all the evil in this world. Hence, the Arahat secret
doctrine on cosmogony, admits but of one absolute, indestructible,
eternal, and uncreated unconsciousness (so to translate), of an
element (the word being used for want of
a
better term) absolutely
independent of everything else in the universe
;
a
something ever
present or ubiquitous,
a
Presence which ever was, is, and will be,
whether there
is
a
God, gods or none
;
whether there
is
a
universe
230 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
or no universe ; existing during the eternal cycles of Maha Yugs,
during the Pralayas as during the periods of Manvantara : and this
is Space, the field for the operation of the eternal Forces and natural
Law, the basis (as our correspondent rightly calls
it)
upon which take
place the eternal intercorrelations of Akasa-Prakriti, guided by the
unconscious regular pulsations of Sakti—the breath or power of a
conscious deity, the theists would say, —the eternal energy of an
eternal, unconscious Law, say the Buddhists. Space then, or Fan,
Bar-nang (Maha Sunyata) or, as
it
is
called by Lao-tze, the
" Empti
ness
"
is
the nature of the Buddhist Absolute. (See Confucius'
" Praise
of
the Abyss.") The word jiva then, could never be applied
by the Arahats to the Seventh Principle, since
it
is
only through its
correlation or contact with matter that Fo-hat (the Buddhist active
energy) can develop active conscious life
;
and that to the question
"how can Unconsciousness generate consciousness
?
"
the answer
would be
:
" Was the seed which generated
a
Bacon or
a
Newton
self-conscious
?
"
NOTE
V
To our European readers
:
Deceived by the phonetic similarity,
it
must not be thought that the name
"
Brahman
"
is
identical in
this connection with Brahma or Iswara —the personal God. The
Upanishads —the Vedanta Scriptures—mention no such God and,
one would vainly seek in them any allusions to a conscious deity.
The Brahman, or Parabrahm, the absolute of the Vedantins,
is
neuter and unconscious, and has no connection with the masculine
Brahma of the Hindu Triad, or Trimurti. Some Orientalists rightly
believe the name derived from the verb
" Brih," to grow or increase,
and to be, in this sense, the universal expansive force
of
nature, the
vivifying and spiritual principle, or power, spread throughout
the universe and which in its collectivity
is
the one Absoluteness, the
one Life and the only Reality.
FOOTNOTES TO " LAKSHMIBAI "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No.
4
(28), January, 1882, pp. 100-101.]
[This purports to be an authentic story of a bhut. The narrator's
aunt became ill and rapidly grew worse until little hope of her re
covery remained. On the day prior to her death she told her sister
that she felt she would live only a day or two, and expressed her
desire to be removed before her death to some other place, because,
she said,
"
everyone who had died in the room became
a
bhut," and
she wanted to avoid such a terrible fate. On the next day she died
in that room, no one having remembered the wish which she had
FOOTNOTES TO
"
LAKSHMIBAI "
231
expressed. Six months later a sister-in-law of the narrator was
seized with violent trembling and her body became burning hot.
Conjecturing that an evil spirit had taken possession of her, her
mother-in-law questioned her to ascertain who that spirit was ; the
ghost introduced itself as Lakshmibai, the aunt who had died.
The narrative concludes with the query whether the soul of Laksh
mibai remained earthbound by her anxiety to be removed from the
sick-room which she believed to be a place where an escaping soul
was liable to become a bhut. H. P. B. makes the following com
ments :]
[Bhut] A ghost, an earth-bound spirit or
"
Elementary". We
give room to this interesting story, in order to show the Western
Spiritualists, once more and again, that, while believing in the possi
bility of returning
"
spirits ", the Hindus fear and detest them,
giving them the epithet of
"
devils
"
instead of
"
departed angels ",
and considering such a return in each case as a curse to be avoided
and removed as soon as possible.
The ghost's assertions through her medium, prove nothing in this
case. The lady so possessed knew as much of the deceased as the
rest of the family. It might have been any spook for all the narrator
knows—who personated Lakshmibai, and the correct answers were
no test at all.
" The ghost replied that she had to suffer in consequence of the
idea of her not being removed from the sick-room, forcibly striking
her and preying on her mind at the time of death."
This again may lead one to suspect (and we now speak from the
standpoint of Eastern Occultism) that it was the dying woman's
last thought, the idle fixe (the intensity of which makes of living
people monomaniacs, and spreads for an indefinite time its magnetic
unhealthy influence after the brain which generated it had longed
time ceased to exist)
—that idea that had so long worried her dying
mind, namely, that she was going to become a bhut unless removed
—that infected also the mind of her relative. A man dies of a
contagious disease ; months after his death, aye, years —a bit of
clothing, an object touched by him during his sickness, may commu
nicate the disease to a person more physiologically sensitive than the
persons around him, and while having no effect upon the latter. And
why should not an idea, a thought, exercise the same influence ?
Thought is no less material nor objective than the imponderable and
mysterious germs of various infectious diseases the causes of which
are such a puzzle for science. Since the mind of a living person
can so influence another mind, that the former can force the latter
to think and believe whatever it will—in short, to psychologize
another mind, so can the thought of a person already dead. Once
232 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
generated and sent out, that thought will live upon its own energy.
It has become independent of the brain and mind which gave it
birth. So long as its concentrated energy remains undissipated, it
can act as a potential influence when brought into contact with the
living brain and nervous system of a person susceptibly predisposed.
The unhealthy action thus provoked may lead the sensitive into a
temporary insanity of self-delusion that quite clouds the sense of
his own individuality. The morbid action thus once set up, the
whole floating group of the dead man's thoughts rushes into
the sensitive's brain, and he can give what seems test after test of the
presence of the deceased and convince the predisposed investigator
that the individuality of the control, "guide", or communicating
intelligence is thoroughly established.
DREAM-LAND AND SOMNAMBULISM
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 4 (28), January, 1882, pp. 102-105.]
The article on dreams alluded to in the following letter is reprinted
with the desired explanatory notes for the information of our readers :
To the Editor.
The accompanying extract is from an article in a recent issue of
Chambers's Journal. I hope you will reprint the same and kindly give
full explanations upon the following subjects :—
(1)
Are dreams always real
?
If so, what produces them
;
if
not real,
yet may they not have in themselves some deep significance
?
(2) Tell us something about our ante-natal state of existence and the
transmigration of soul
?
(3) Give us anything that
is
worth knowing about Psychology as
suggested by this article
?
Your most fraternally and obediently,
Jehangir Cursetji Tarachand, F.T.S.
Bombay, November 10, 1881.
Editor's Answer.
To put our correspondent's request more exactly, he desires The
Theosophist to call into the limits of
a
column or two the facts
embraced within the whole range of all the sublunar mysteries with
" full explanations." These would embrace —
(1) The complete philosophy of dreams, as deduced from their
physiological, biological, psychological and occult aspects.
(2) The Buddhist Jatakas (re-births and migrations of our Lord
Sakya-Muni) with
a
philosophical essay upon the transmigrations of
the 387,000 Buddhas who
"
turned the wheel of faith," during the
DREAM-LAND AND SOMNAMBULISM 233
successive revelations to the world of the 125,000 other Buddhas,
the Saints who can
"
overlook and unravel the thousand-fold knotted
threads of the moral chain of causation," throwing in a treatise upon
the Nidhanas, the chain of twelve causes with a complete list of their
two millions of results, and copious appendices by some Arahats,
"
who have attained the stream which floats into Nirvana."
(3)
The compounded reveries of the world-famous psychologists
;
from the Egyptian Hermes, and his Book
of
the Dead
;
Plato's defini
tion of the Soul, in Timceus
;
and so on, down to the Drawing-Room
Nocturnal Chats with
a
Disembodied Soul, by Rev. Adramelech
Romeo Tiberius Toughskin from Cincinnatti.
Such
is
the modest task proposed. Suppose we first give the
article which has provoked so great
a
thirst for philosophical informa
tion, and then try to do what we can.
It
is
a
curious case,—
if
not
altogether
a
literary fiction
:
" The writer of this article has
a
brother-in-law who has felt some of
his dreams to be of
a
remarkable and significant character
;
and his
experience shows that there
is
a
strange and inexplicable connexion
between such dreams and the state of somnambulism. Before giving in
detail some instances of somnambulism as exhibited by him and also by
his daughter,
I
will give an account of one of his dreams, which has been
four times repeated in its striking and salient points at uncertain periods,
during the past thirty years. He was in his active youth
a
practical
agriculturist, but now lives retired. All his life he has been spare of
flesh, active, cheerful, very companionable, and not in any sense what
is
called
a
book-worm. His dream was as follows
:
—He found himself
alone, standing in front of
a
monument of very solid masonry, looking
vacantly at the north side of it, when to his astonishment, the middle
stones on the level of his sight gradually opened and slid down one on
another, until an opening was made large enough to uphold a man. All
of a sudden,
a
little man, dressed in black, with
a
large bald head, ap
peared inside the opening, seemingly fixed there by reason of his feet and
legs being buried in the masonry. The expression of his face was mild
and intelligent. They looked at each other for what seemed
a
long time
without either of them attempting to speak, and all the while my brother's
astonishment increased. At length, as the dreamer expressed himself,
'
The little man in black with the bald head and serene countenance
'
said
:
'
Don't you know me
?
I
am the man whom you murdered in an
ante-natal state
of
existence
;
and
I
am waiting until you come, and shall
wait without sleeping. There
is
no evidence of the foul deed in your
state of human existence, so you need not trouble yourself in your mortal
life—shut me again in darkness.'
The dreamer began, as he thought, to put the stones in their original
position, remarking as he expressed himself —to the little man
:
—
'
This
is
all
a
dream of yours, for there
is
no ante-natal state of existence.' The
little man who seemed to grow less and less, said
:
'
Cover me over and
begone.' At this the dreamer awoke.
234 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Years passed away, and the dream was forgotten in the common
acceptation of the term, when behold ! without any previous thought of
the matter, he dreamed that he was standing in the sunshine, facing an
ancient garden-wall that belonged to a large unoccupied mansion, when
the stones in front of it began to fall out with a gently sliding motion,
and soon revealed the self-same mysterious person, and every thing
pertaining to him, including his verbal utterances as on the first occasion,
though an uncertain number of years had passed. The same identical
dream has since occurred twice at irregular periods ; but there was no
change in the facial appearance of the little man in black."
We do not feel competent to pronounce upon the merits or
demerits of this particular dream. The interpretation of it
may be safely left with the Daniels of physiology who, like W. A.
Hammond, M.D., of New York, explain dreams and somnambulism
as due to an exalted condition of the spinal cord. It may have been a
meaningless, chance-dream, brought about by a concatenation of
thoughts which occupy mechanically the mind during sleep
" That dim twilight of the mind,
When Reason's beam, half hid behind
The clouds of sense, obscurely gilds
Each shadowy shape that fancy builds." —
—when our mental operations go on independently of our conscious
volition.
Our physical senses are the agents by means of which the astral
spirit or
"
conscious something
" within, is brought by contact with
the external world to a knowledge of actual existence ; while the
spiritual senses of the astral man are the media, the telegraphic wires,
by means of which he communicates with his higher principles, and
obtains therefrom the faculties of clear perception of, and vision into,
the realms of the invisible world.1 The Buddhist philosopher holds
that by practice of the dhyanas one may reach "the enlightened
condition of mind which exhibits itself by immediate recognition of
sacred truth, so that on opening the Scriptures (or any books whatso
ever ?) their true meaning at once flashes into the heart." [Beal's
Catena, etc., p. 255.] If the first time, however, the above dream
was meaningless, the three following times it may have recurred by
the suddenly awakening of that portion of the brain to which it was
due —as in dreaming, or in somnambulism, the brain is asleep only
in parts, and called into action through the agency of the external
senses, owing to some peculiar cause : a word pronounced, a thought,
or picture lingering dormant in one of the cells of memory, and
awakened by a sudden noise, the fall of a stone, suggesting instantan
eously to this half-dreamy fancy of the sleeper walls of masonry, and
1 See Editor's Note, on the letter that follows this one,
"
Are Dreams but Idle
Visions ?
"
DREAM-LAND AND SOMNAMBULISM 235
so on. When one is suddenly startled in his sleep without becoming
fully awake, he does not begin and terminate his dream with the
simple noise which partially awoke him, but often experiences in his
dream, a long train of events concentrated within the brief space
of time the sound occupies, and to be attributed solely to that sound.
Generally dreams are induced by the waking associations which
precede them. Some of them produce such an impression that the
slightest idea in the direction of any subject associated with a
particular dream may bring its recurrence years after. Tartini,
the famous Italian violonist, composed his
"
Devil's Sonata
"
under
the inspiration of a dream. During his sleep he thought the Devil
appeared to him and challenged him to a trial of skill upon his own
private violin, brought by him from the infernal regions, which
challenge Tartini accepted. When he awoke, the melody of the
" Devil's Sonata
"
was so vividly impressed upon his mind that
he there and then noted it down ; but when arriving towards the
finale all further recollection of it was suddenly obliterated, and he
laid aside the incomplete piece of music. Two years later, he dreamt
the very same thing and tried in his dream to make himself recollect
the finale upon awaking. The dream was repeated owing to a blind
street -musician fiddling on his instrument under the artist's window.
Coleridge composed in a like manner his poem
" Kublai Khan," in
a dream, which, on awaking, he found so vividly impressed upon his
mind that he wrote down the famous lines which are still preserved.
The dream was due to the poet falling asleep in his chair while reading
in Purchas'
"
Pilgrimage
"
the following words :
" Here, the Khan
Kublai commanded a palace to be built . . . enclosed within a wall."
The popular belief that among the vast number of meaningless
dreams there are some in which presages are frequently given of
coming events is shared by many well-informed persons, but not at
all by science. Yet there are numberless instances of well-attested
dreams which were verified by subsequent events, and which,
therefore, may be termed prophetic. The Greek and Latin classics
teem with records of remarkable dreams, some of which have become
historical. Faith in the spiritual nature of dreaming was as widely
disseminated among the pagan philosophers as among the Christian
fathers of the church, nor is belief in soothsaying and interpretations
of dreams (oneiromancy) limited to the heathen nations of Asia,
since the Bible is full of them. This is what Eliphas Levi, the great
modern Kabalist, says of such divinations, visions and prophetic
dreams.1
" Somnambulism, premonitions and second sights are but a
disposition, whether accidental or habitual, to dream, awake, or
1
Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magic. Vol. I, pp. 356-7.
236 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
during a voluntary, self-induced, or yet natural sleep, i.e., to
perceive (and guess by intuition) the analogical reflections of the
Astral Light. . . . The paraphernalia and instruments of divin
ations are simply means for (magnetic) communications between
the divinator and him who consults him : they serve to fix and
concentrate two wills (bent in the same direction) upon the same
sign or object ; the queer, complicated, moving figures helping
to collect the reflections of the Astral fluid. Thus one is enabled,
at times, to see in the grounds of a coffee cup, or in the clouds, in
the white of an egg, etc. etc., fantastic forms having their existence,
but in the translucid (or the seer's imagination). Vision-seeing
in the water is produced by the fatigue of the dazzled optic nerve,
which ends by ceding its functions to the translucid, and calling
forth a cerebral illusion, which makes to seem as real images the
simple reflections of the astral light. Thus the fittest persons for
this kind of divination are those of a nervous temperament whose
sight is weak and imagination vivid, children being the best of
all adapted for it. But let no one misinterpret the nature of the
function attributed by us to imagination in the art of divination.
We see through our imagination doubtless, and that is the natural
aspect of the miracle ; but we see actual and true things, and it is
in this that lies the marvel of the natural phenomenon. We appeal
for corroboration of what we say to the testimony of all the
adepts. ..."
And now we give room to a second letter which relates to us a
dream verified by undeniable events.
ARE DREAMS BUT IDLE VISIONS ?
[The letter referred to asked for an explanation of two dreams in
which a Hindu gentleman, while away from home, saw his wife
suffering from cholera, his visions being a few hours later confirmed
by a letter. H. P. B. replied :]
" Dreams are interludes which fancy makes," Dryden tells us ;
perhaps to show that even a poet will make occasionally his muse
subservient to sciolistic prejudice.
The instance as above given is one of a series of what may be
regarded as exceptional cases in dreamlife, the generality of dreams,
being indeed, but
"
interludes which fancy makes." And, it is the
policy of materialistic, matter-of-fact science to superbly ignore
such exceptions, on the ground, perchance, that the exception con
firms the rule,—we rather think, to avoid the embarrassing task of
explaining such exceptions. Indeed, if one single instance stubbornly
ARE DREAMS BUT IDLE VISIONS ? 237
refuses classification with
"
strange coincidences
"—so much in
favour with sceptics —then, prophetic, or verified dreams would
demand an entire remodelling of physiology. As in regard to
phrenology, the recognition and acceptance by science of prophetic
dreams —(hence the recognition of the claims of Theosophy and
Spiritualism) —would, it is contended,
"
carry with it a new educa
tional, social, political, and theological science." Result : Science
will never recognise either dreams, spiritualism, or occultism.
Human nature is an abyss which physiology and human science,
in general, has sounded less than some who have never heard the
word physiology pronounced. Never are the high censors of the Royal
Society more perplexed than when brought face to face with that
insolvable mystery —man's inner nature. The key to it is—man's
dual being. It is that key that they refuse to use, well aware that
if once the door of the adytum be flung open they will be forced to
drop one by one their cherished theories and final conclusions —
more than once proved to have been no better than hobbies, false
as everything built upon, and starting from false or incomplete
premises. If we must remain satisfied with the half explanations
of physiology as regards meaningless dreams, how account, in such
case, for the numerous facts of verified dreams ? To say that man is
a dual being ; that in man —to use the words of Paul —' '
There is a
natural body, and there is a spiritual body
"—and that, therefore,
he must, of necessity, have a double set of senses —is tantamount, in
the opinion of the educated sceptic, to uttering an unpardonable,
most unscientific fallacy. Yet it has to be uttered—science not
withstanding.
Man is undeniably endowed with a double set : with natural or
physical senses, —these to be safely left to physiology to deal with ;
and, with subnatural or spiritual senses belonging entirely to the
province of psychological science. The Latin word
" sub," let it
be well understood, is used here in a sense diametrically opposite
to that given to it—in chemistry, for instance. In our case it is not
a preposition, but a prefix as in
"
sub-tonic
" or
"
sub-bass
"
in music.
Indeed, as the aggregate sound of nature is shown to be a single
definite tone, a keynote vibrating from and through eternity ; having
an undeniable existence per se yet possessing an appreciable pitch
but for "the acutely fine ear"1 —so the definite harmony or dis
harmony of man's external nature is seen by the observant to depend
wholly on the character of the key-note struck for the outer by the
inner man. It is the spiritual Ego or Self that serves as the
fundamental base, determining the tone of the whole life of man —
that most capricious, uncertain and variable of all instruments, and
which more than any other needs constant tuning ; it is its voice
1 This tone is held by the specialists to be the middle F of the piano.
238 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
alone, which like the sub-bass of an organ underlies the melody of
his whole life—whether its tones are sweet or harsh, harmonious or
wild, legato or pizzicato.
Therefore, we say, man, in addition to the physical, has also a
spiritual brain. If the former is wholly dependent for the degree
of its receptivity on its own physical structure and development,
it is, on the other hand, entirely subordinate to the latter, inasmuch
as it is the spiritual Ego alone, and accordingly as it leans more
towards its two highest principles,1 or towards its physical shell,
that can impress more or less vividly the outer brain with the
perception of things purely spiritual or immaterial. Hence it depends
on the acuteness of the mental feelings of the inner Ego, on the
degree of spirituality of its faculties, to transfer the impression of
the scenes its semi-spiritual brain perceives, the words it hears and
what it feels, to the sleeping physical brain of the outer man. The
stronger the spirituality of the faculties of the latter, the easier it
will be for the Ego to awake the sleeping hemispheres, arouse into
activity the sensory ganglia and the cerebellum, and to impress the
former—always in full inactivity and rest during the deep sleep of
man with the vivid picture of the subject so transferred. In a sensual,
unspiritual man, in one, whose mode of life and animal proclivities
and passions have entirely disconnected his fifth principle or animal,
astral Ego, from its higher
"
Spiritual Soul
"
; as also in him whose
hard, physical labour has so worn out the material body as to render
him temporarily insensible to the voice and touch of his Astral Soul,
—during sleep the brains of both these men remain in a complete
state of anaesthesia or full inactivity. Such persons rarely, if ever,
will have any dreams at all, least of all
"
visions that come to pass."
In the former, as the waking time approaches, and his sleep becomes
lighter, the mental changes beginning to take place, they will
constitute dreams in which intelligence will play no part ; his half-
awakened brain suggesting but pictures which are only the hazy
grotesque reproductions of his wild habits in life ; while in the
latter —unless preoccupied with some exceptional thought —his ever
present instinct of active habits will not permit him to remain in that
state of semi-sleep during which, consciousness beginning to return,
we see dreams of various kinds, but will arouse him, at once, and
without any interlude to full wakefulness. On the other hand, the
more spiritual a man, the more active his fancy, and the greater
probability of his receiving in vision the correct impressions conveyed
to him by his all-seeing, his ever-wakeful Ego. The spiritual senses
of the latter, unimpeded as they are by the interference of the physical
1 The sixth principle, or spiritual soul, and the seventh—its purely spiritual
principle, the
"
Spirit
" or Parabrahm, the emanation from the unconscious Abso
lute. (See
" Fragments of Occult Truth," No. I.)
ARE DREAMS BUT IDLE VISIONS ? 239
senses, are in direct intimacy with his highest spiritual principle ;
and the latter, though per se quasi-unconscious —part of the utterly
unconscious, because utterly immaterial Absolute1 —yet having in
itself inherent capabilities of Omniscience, Omnipresence and
Omnipotence which as soon as the pure essence comes in contact
with pure sublimated and (to us) imponderable matter—imparts
these attributes in a degree to the as pure Astral Ego. Hence highly
spiritual persons, will see visions and dreams during sleep and even
in their hours of wakefulness : these are the sensitives, the natural-
born seers, now loosely termed
"
spiritual mediums," there being no
distinction made between a subjective seer, a neurypnological subject,
and even an adept —one who has made himself independent of his
physiological idiosyncrasies and has entirely subjected the outer
to the inner man. Those less spiritually endowed will see such
dreams but at rare intervals, the accuracy of the latter depending
on the intensity of their feeling in regard to the perceived object.
Had Babu Jugut Chunder's case been more seriously gone into,
we would have learned that for one or several reasons, either he or
his wife was intensely attached to the other ; or that the question
of her life or death was of the greatest importance to either one or
both of them.
"
One soul sends a message to another soul
"—is
an old saying. Hence, premonitions, dreams, and visions. At all
events, and in this dream at least, there were no
"
disembodied
"
spirits at work, the warning being solely due to either one or the other,
or both of the two living and incarnated Egos.
Thus, in this question of verified dreams, as in so many others,
Science stands before an unsolved problem, the insolvable nature
of which has been created by her own materialistic stubbornness,
and her time-cherished routine-policy. For, either man is a dual
being, with an inner Ego2 in him, this Ego
" the real
" man, distinct
1 To this teaching every kind of exception will be taken by the Theists and
various objections raised by the Spiritualists. It is evident, that we cannot be
expected to give within the narrow limits of a short article a full explanation of this
highly abstruse and esoteric doctrine. To say that the Absolute Consciousness is
Unconscious of its consciousness, hence to the limited intellect of man must be
"
Absolute Unconsciousness," seems like speaking of a square triangle. We hope
to develop the proposition more fully in one of the forthcoming numbers of
" Frag
ments of Occult Truth " of which we may publish a series. We will then prove,
perhaps, to the satisfaction of the non-prejudiced that the Absolute, or the Un
conditioned, and (especially) the unrelated is a mere fanciful abstraction, a fiction,
unless we view it from the standpoint and in the light of the more educated pan
theist. To do so, we will have to regard the
"
Absolute
"
merely as the aggregate of
all intelligences, the totality of all existences, incapable of manifesting itself but
through the interrelationship of its parts, as // is absolutely incognizable and non
existent outside its phenomena, and depends entirely on its ever-correlating Forces,
dependent in their turn on the One Great Law.
* Whether with one solitary Ego, or Soul, as the Spiritualists affirm, or with
several —i.e., composed of seven principles, as Eastern esotericism teaches, is not the
question at issue for the present. Let us first prove by bringing our joint experience
to bear, that there is in man something beyond Buchner's Force and Matter.
24o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
from, and independent of the outer man proportionally to the
prevalency or weakness of the material body ; an Ego the scope of
whose senses stretches far beyond the limit granted to the physical
senses of man ; an Ego which survives the decay of its external
covering—at least for a time, even when an evil course of life has
made him fail to achieve a perfect union with its spiritual higher
Self., i.e., to blend its individuality with it, (the personality gradually
fading out in each case) ; or—the testimony of millions of men
embracing several thousands of years ; the evidence furnished in
our own century by hundreds of the most educated men —often by
the greatest lights of science —all this evidence, we say, goes to
naught. With the exception of a handful of scientific authorities,
surrounded by an eager crowd of sceptics and sciolists, who having
never seen anything, claim, therefore, the right of denying everything
—the world stands condemned as a gigantic Lunatic Asylum 1 It
has, however, a special department in it. It is reserved for those
who, having proved the soundness of their mind, must, of necessity,
be regarded as Impostors and Liars. . . .
Has then the phenomenon of dreams been so thoroughly studied
by materialistic science, that she has nothing more to learn, since
she speaks in such authoritative tones upon the subject ? Not in
the least. The phenomena of sensation and volition, of intellect
and instinct, are, of course, all manifested through the channels of
the nervous centres the most important of which is the brain. Of
the peculiar substance through which these actions take place —a
substance the two forms of which are the vesicular and the fibrous,
the latter is held to be simply the propagator of the impressions
sent to or from the vesicular matter. Yet while this physiological
office is distinguished, or divided by Science into three kinds—the
motor, sensitive and connecting —the mysterious agency of intellect
remains as mysterious and as perplexing to the great physiologists
as it was in the days of Hippocrates. The scientific suggestion that
there may be a fourth series associated with the operations of thought
has not helped towards solving the problem ; it has failed to shed
even the slightest ray of light on the unfathomable mystery. Nor will
they ever fathom it unless our men of Science accept the hypothesis
of Dual Man.
A PERSONAL EXPLANATION
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 4 (28), Supplement, January, 1882,
pp. 1-2.]
IT is impossible for the Founders of the Theosophical Society to
answer more than a few of the attacks made upon them in the Anglo-
Indian Press. They are naturally exposed to many such libellous
A PERSONAL EXPLANATION 241
accusations as the Theosophical movement excites the hostility of
two great armies of bigots—the bigots of science, and the bigots of
religion. But enemies who are honest enemies, who assail the teach
ing, or what they conceive to be the teaching of the Theosophical
Society in a legitimate way by argument —even when the argument
is intemperate and uncivil in tone —may be left to the influence of
time and those tendencies in human thought which have generally
defeated Bigotry in the long run. For the rudeness of antagonists
who know nothing about the real nature of their pursuits, and will
not take the trouble to enquire into these, the Founders of the
Theosophical Society are fully compensated by the sympathy and
regard of those who are better informed and more intelligent.
It happens sometimes, however, that occasional enemies who are
not honest, —people who have conceived a grudge against the
Founders, or either of them—on private grounds, will take advantage
of opportunities afforded by the hostility of the orthodox press to
Theosophy, and will write articles ostensibly about Theosophy, but
really for the purpose of insinuating some ignoble calumny about
the foremost, though humble, representatives thereof. In this way
an article, the authorship of which is as obvious to the undersigned,
as that of a familiar handwriting would be, was lately contributed
to the Statesman of Calcutta. The writer had previously procured
the insertion of similar slanderous attacks in the Civil and Military
Gazette, but at length refused further favours by that paper he
has apparently sought another opening for his contributions, finding
this with the Statesman. On the 6th instant that journal published
a long, leading article in vilification of the Theosophical Society, its
Founders and its friends. The greater part of this is unworthy,
either of quotation or reply, but one passage was not alone insulting
and calumnious ; it was libellous, even as libels are estimated by
Courts of Law. Messrs. Sanderson and Co., solicitors of Calcutta,
were, therefore, duly instructed on behalf of the undersigned to apply
for legal redress, and they addressed to the editor of the Statesman
the following letter :
The Theosophists.
To the Editor.
No. 10613, Calcutta, December 16, i88r.
Sir,—In the Statesman of Tuesday, the 6th instant, there appears an
article having reference, among other matters, to Madame Blavatsky and
Colonel Olcott, the Founders of the Theosophical Society. In the course
of that article, it is stated :—
"
It is now asserted not only that the resources of both (Madame
Blavatsky and Col. Olcott) are exhausted, but that they are largely in
debt, on account, it is alleged, of the expenses of the Society. It is not
0
242 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
difficult for anyone to arrive at the conclusion that it would be highly
desirable and expedient for the Founders of the Theosophical Society to
have these debts paid off. This is a simple and not unpraiseworthy
instinct. The question that remains is, as regards the means by which
this consummation is to be effected."
The remainder of the article, which we need not quote at length, is an
elaborate insinuation that Madame Blavatsky is endeavouring to procure
from a gentleman named, by spurious representations, the payment of
her debts.
Now, the allegation about Madame Blavatsky being in debt is, we are
instructed, absolutely false to begin with ; nor is the Society which she
helped to found in debt, unless, indeed, it be to herself. The accounts of
the Society, published in The Theosophist for last May, show that the
outlay incurred on behalf of the Society up to that date had exceeded
the receipts (consisting of
" initiation fees
" Rs. 3,900, and a few donations)
by a sum of Rs. 19,846, but this deficit was supplied from the private
resources of Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott.
We may further explain that Madame Blavatsky is a Russian lady of
high rank by birth (though since naturalized in the United States), and
has never been in the penniless condition your article insultingly ascribes
to her —whatever mistakes may have arisen from the improper publica
tion of a private letter by Colonel Olcott to a friend in America, the care
less exaggerations of which, designed merely for a correspondent familiar
with the real state of the affairs to which these referred, have given you
occasion for some offensive remarks.
We, therefore, duly instructed on behalf of Madame Blavatsky and
Colonel Olcott, now require of you that you should publish this letter,
together with an apology for the scandalous libel to which you have been
misled into giving currency.
We also require that in further refutation of these and in general reply
to the insulting language of your article, you should publish the enclosed
explanations extracted from the Pioneer of the 10th instant.
In the event of your failure forthwith to comply with our request, or to
give up the name of the writer of the article in question, we are instructed
to proceed against you in the High Court for recovery of damages for the
libellous attack of which our clients complain. —Yours faithfully,
Sanderson & Co.
This letter was published by the editor of the Statesman in his
issue of December 17, together with an article which, in a private
letter to Messrs. Sanderson and Co., he refers to as his
"
apology."
This so-called apology, in the midst of a good deal of comment
designed apparently to sound as offensive as it can be made compatible
with safety for the writer as regards legal penalties, says :
. . . .
" The statement that the Founders of the Theosophical Society
were in debt, has already been contradicted by us, on the authority of
the Pioneer, in our issue of Monday last, the 12th instant. As soon as we
learned from the Pioneer that the deficit in the accounts of the Society
A PERSONAL EXPLANATION 243
had been paid off by Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott out of their
private resources, we took the earliest opportunity of giving publicity to
the fact. ..."
Later on, the apology adds :
. . . .
" We are, of course, delighted to hear that Madame Blavatsky
has never been in the penniless condition in which she was represented to
be, and that being so, we regret that the public should have been so
misled, and that we should have been led to base a mistaken inference
upon the statements that were before the public. We may add that we
have much pleasure in publishing Messrs. Sanderson's repudiation, (for
unless it is so, their letter has no meaning) of any wish or intention on the
part of the Founders of the Theosophical Society to obtain money from
wealthy members of the Society. This, we should have thought, would
be one of their great objects, as we do not see how otherwise the Society
can go on and flourish ; but we never said that they were likely to seek
that object by dishonest means, and therefore, we do not see clearly
wherein the scandalous libel consists. . . ."1
The Statesman then goes on to offer a gratuitous opinion on certain
"
apparently miraculous achievements attributed to Madame
Blavatsky by the Pioneer." As the Statesman thus shows that it
has not reached the stage of being able to define with accuracy the
object of its disbelief, it is unnecessary to pay much attention to its
conclusions as to who are
"
dupes
" in this case,—the open-minded
students of Nature's mysteries who find help in Theosophy, or the
orthodox professors of faith in the science of the Pentateuch, and
the religion of Mr. Huxley.
To render the personal explanation complete, it seems desirable
—distasteful as it is to Madame Blavatsky to advance any claims
to public respect, except those which she confidently rests on her
devotion to the noble intellectual revival on which the Theosophical
Society is engaged —to republish in connexion with it a certain
article which was published on the appearance of the libellous
article in the Statesman, in the Pioneer of December 10. This was
as follows :
MADAME BLAVATSKY AND "THE STATESMAN."
Pending any further proceeding that may be taken by the lady con
cerned, in reference to a libellous attack on Madame Blavatsky in the
Calcutta Statesman of Tuesday, we feel bound to publish a translation of
a letter we have just received, (by the mail which arrived yesterday
1 The innocent
"
simplicity
" of the argument is truly remarkable ! If accusing a
person of seeking to obtain money under false pretences (the latter being the
"
ap
parent miraculous achievements," and other alleged claims) be not a scandalous
libel, then we do not know what the word
"
honesty
"
conveys to the mind of the
editor of the Statesman ? The excuse is certainly calculated to leave every reader
under the impression that the editor of the journal in question has very strange
notions of accuracy of language. What, we wonder, would he have done under like
circumstances ?
244 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
morning,) from Odessa. The establishment of Madame Blavatsky's real
identity by formal proofs of this nature has never been necessary for any
person of culture or intelligence who knows her, but foolish or malevolent
people, proceeding on vague and erroneous conjectures as to the nature
of the work to which she has devoted herself in this country, have ventured
to imply that she must be an impostor, aiming at common-place ends—
money, or social position. The absurdity of this contention is made
evident by the following letter, which shows to what rank in society she
properly belongs :—
Sir, —Having heard with astonishment that there exist somewhere about
the world persons who have an interest in denying the personality of my
niece, Mme. H. P. Blavatsky, pretending that she has appropriated to
herself a name that does not belong to her, I hasten to send you these
lines, begging you to make use of them to dissipate the very strange
calumny. I say strange, but I might say senseless (insensSe). For why
should she choose (supposing she had really any necessity to change her
name) a family which is not at all illustrious except by literary and
scientific merits, which, indeed, would do honour to its name whatever that
might be. What astonishes me especially is that any one can make a
mistake about the origin of a person so erudite and of so cultivated an
education as that of my niece.
However, as it is the burlesque fancy of her personal enemies to treat
her as an impostor, will you receive my personal guarantee (given on my
honour) that she is what she affirms herself to be Madame Helen P.
Blavatsky, widow of a Councillor of State, ex-Vice-Governor of the
Province of Erivan in the Caucasus, daughter of a Russian Colonel, Pierre
von Hahn (whose ancestors were allied with the Counts von Hahn of
Germany, and whose mother was nie Countess Probsting) and my niece
by her own mother, my sister nee Fadeeff, grand-daughter of the Princess
Dolgorouky of the elder princely line.
To establish her identity I enclose in this letter two of her portraits, one
taken twenty years ago in my presence, the other sent from America four
or five years ago. Furthermore, in order that sceptics may not conceive
suspicions as to my personal identity, I take the liberty of returning your
letter received through M. le Prince Dondoukoff-Korsakoff, Governor-
General of Odessa. I hope that this proof of authenticity is perfectly
satisfactory. I believe, moreover, that you will have already received the
certificate of the individuality of Madame Blavatsky that the Governor-
General desired himself to send to Bombay.
I ought also to mention a rather important fact, which
is,
that since the
departure of my niece Helen Blavatsky from Odessa for America, in 1872,
she has always been in continuous correspondence, not only with me, but
all her relations in Russia —
a
correspondence which has never been inter
rupted even for
a
month, and that all this time there has been no change
whatever in her style, which
is
peculiar to herself, nor in her handwriting.
This can be proved by all her letters to any one who wishes to convince
himself. This fact alone can leave no doubt except to idiots or evil-
intentioned persons who have their own ends to serve. But with these
there
is
no need to waste time.
A PERSONAL EXPLANATION 245
I cause my signature to be certified by the confirmation of a notary.
On which I beg you to receive the expressions, &c. (signed) Nadejda
A. Fadeyeff (daughter of the Privy Councillor), member of the Council of
the Theosophical Society, daughter of the late Russian Privy Councillor,
formerly director of the Department of State Lands in the Caucasus, and
member of the Council of the Viceroy of the Caucasus.
Odessa, 3rd (15) November.
(The signature is formally authenticated by the Notary of the Bourse
at Odessa, and the letter bears his official stamp.)
We must add, in explanation, that the enclosed portraits are un
doubtedly portraits of Madame Blavatsky, and that we have seen the
formal certificate1 of her identity forwarded direct (for the better as
surance of sceptics to the care of a gentleman in high official position at
Simla) by General Fadeyeff, at present Joint Secretary of State in the
Home Department at St. Petersburg. We have also seen the letter
addressed to Madame Blavatsky as to an intimate friend by Prince
Dondoukoff, expressing, besides warm sympathy, no small measure of
(well-deserved) contempt for persons who could misunderstand her true
character.
The Statesman now argues at great length that Madame Blavatsky
must have come to India in order to beguile any well-to-do persons she
might be able to dupe, into giving her hospitality and possibly money.
Of course, no one can escape beyond the limits of his own nature in
estimating the motives of others ; and the author of the article in the
Statesman may be unable to imagine human creatures governed by any
other motive but the desire to procure money or meals ; but for most
people it will be plain that if so, the imagination of the Statesman does
not range over the whole subject in this case.
One element in the present libel is to the effect that in connection with
the affairs of the Theosophical Society Madame Blavatsky has incurred
large indebtedness. This statement, which is entirely false, is a blundering
misconception of the published fact that the receipts of the Theosophical
Society have fallen short of its expenditure by Rs. 16,000 or more. But
this deficit is not a debt by Madame Blavatsky ; it would be a debt to her,
if she cared to regard it in that light, she having supplied the money from
her private resources supplemented by those of the other equally self-
devoted apostle of Theosophy —Colonel Olcott.
The certificate sent by General Fadeyeff and referred to in this state
ment runs, as follows :—
" I certify by the present that Madame H. P. Blavatsky now residing
at Simla (British India) is from her father's side the daughter of Colonel
Peter Harm and grand-daughter of Lieutenant-General Alexis Hahn von
Rottenstern-Hahn (a noble family of Mecklenburg, Germany, settled in
Russia). And, that she is from her mother's side the daughter of Helene
Fadeyeff and grand-daughter of Privy Councillor Andrew Fadeyeff and
1 No copy of this certificate is in our possession at this moment, or we would
publish it herewith, but its tenor precisely corresponds with the explanation in the
above letter. —Ed. Pioneer.
246 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
of the Princess Helene Dolgorouki ; that she is the widow of the Councillor
of State, Nicephore Blavatsky, late Vice-Governor of the Province of
Erivan, Caucasus.
"
(Signed.) Major-General Rostislav Fadeyeff,
of H.I. Majesty's Staff,
"
Joint Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. St. Peters-
"
burg 29, Little Morskaya,
"
18th September, 1881."
Taken in connexion with the official documents published in The
Theosophist of January 1881, concerning the social status in America
of Colonel Olcott, these explanations may, it is hoped, lay at rest
once for all the wonderful question on which many people in India
have wasted a good deal of speculation, whether the undersigned
are or are not
"
adventurers." They were most unwilling in the
beginning to make any fuss about their own personality, or the
worldly sacrifices they have made in the hope of serving the principle
of
" Universal Brotherhood
" and of contributing to revive the
philosophical self-respect of the Indian people. But when malevolent
antagonists —as short-sighted as they are vindictive, —attempt to
impede the progress of Theosophy by trying to represent its Apostles
in the country as self-seeking aspirants for contemptible worldly
advantage, it is time to show once for all, by an exhibition of the
worldly advantages they have chosen to surrender, the abject
absurdity of this miserable accusation.
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
H. S. OLCOTT.
Bombay, December 31, 1881.
SPIRITUALISM AND OCCULT TRUTH
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, pp. 113-115.]
The Spiritualist of November the 18th takes notice of the article
published in The Theosophist for October under the heading
"
Frag
ments of Occult Truth," but it does not quite appreciate the objects
with which that article was put forward, and still less, the importance
of its contents. To make further explanations intelligible to our own
readers, however, we must first represent the Spiritualist's present
remarks which under the heading of
"
Speculation-spinning
"
are
as follows :
" The much respected author of the best standard text-book on
Chemistry in the English language, the late Professor W. Allen Miller, in
the course of a lecture at the Royal Institution set forth certain facts, but
SPIRITUALISM AND OCCULT TRUTH
expressed an objection to make known a speculative hypothesis which
apparently explained the causes of the facts. He said that tempting but
inadequately proved hypotheses when once implanted in the mind, were
most difficult to eradicate ; they sometimes stood in the way of the dis
covery of truth, they often promoted experiments in a wrong direction,
and were better out of the heads than in the heads of young students of
science.
" The man who prosecutes original research must have some speculation
in his head as he tries each new experiment. Such experiments are
questions put to Nature, and her replies commonly dash to the ground
one such speculation after another, but gradually guide the investigator
into the true path, and reveal the previously unknown law, which can
thenceforth be safely used in the service of mankind for all time.
"
Very different is the method of procedure among some classes of
psychologists. With them a tempting and plausible hypothesis enters the
mind, but instead of considering it to be mischievous to propagate it as
possessing authority before it is verified, it is thought clever to do so ; the
necessity for facts and proof is ignored, and it may be that a church or
school of thought is set up, which people are requested to join in order
that they may fight for the new dogma. Thus unproved speculations are
forced upon the world with trumpet tongues by one class of people, in
stead of being tested, and, in most cases, nipped in the bud according to
the method of the man of science.1
"
The religious periodicals of the day abound with articles consisting of
nothing but speculations advanced by the authors as truths and as things
to be upheld and fought over. Rarely is the modest statement made,
'
This may explain some points which are perplexing us, but until the
verity of the hypothesis has been firmly demonstrated by facts, you must
be careful not to let it rest in your mind as truth.' By '
facts
'
we do not
necessarily mean physical facts, for there are demonstrable truths outside
the realm of physics.
" The foregoing ideas have often occurred to us while reading the pages
of The Theosophist, and have been revived by an interesting editorial
article in the last number of that journal, in which the nature of the body
and spirit of man, is definitely mapped out in seven clauses.2 There is not
one word of attempt at proof, and the assertions can only carry weight
with those who derive their opinions from the authoritative allegations of
others, instead of upon evidence which they have weighed and examined
for themselves ; and the remarkable point is that the writer shows no
signs of consciousness that any evidence is necessary. Had the scientific
method been adopted, certain facts or truths would have been made to
precede each of the seven clauses, coupled with the claim that those
truths demonstrated the assertions in the clauses, and negatived all
hypotheses at variance therewith.
" Endless speculation-spinning is a kind of mental dissipation, which
does little good to the world or to the individuals who indulge therein, and
1 We do not want to be cruel : but where can one find
"
unproved speculations
"
more unproved, or that would be
"
nipped in the bud
"
by
" the man of science
"
with a more ready hand than those that are weekly expressed in the Spiritualist ?
» The Theosophist, Bombay, October, 1881, pp. 18-19.
248 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
has sometimes had in Europe a slight tendency to impart to the latter
signs of Pharisaical self-consciousness of their being advanced religionists
and philosophers, living in a diviner air than those who work to base their
opinions on well-verified truths. If the speculators recognized their
responsibility and imitated the example set them by the great and good
Professor Allen Miller, nine-tenths of their time would be set at liberty
for doing good work in the world, the wasting of oceans of printing ink
would be avoided, and mental energy which might be devoted to high uses
would no longer run to waste. The minds of habitual dreamers and
speculators may be compared to windmills incessantly at work grinding
nothing.1
"
Just at present there is far too much mental speculation afloat, and
far too few people putting good ideas into practical form. Here in
London, within the past year, grievous iniquities which might have been
prevented, and grievous wrongs which might have been redressed, have
abounded, and too few people have been at work ameliorating the sorrows
and the sins immediately around them."
Now we do not want to discuss these questions with the Spiritualist
in the way that rival religious sects might debate their differences.
There can be no sectarianism in truth-seeking, and when we regard
the Spiritualists as seriously mistaken in many of the most important
of the conclusions to which they have come, they must certainly
be recognised as truth-seekers, —like ourselves. As a body, indeed,
they are entitled to all possible honour for having boldly pursued
their experiences to unpopular conclusions, caring more for what
presented itself to them as the truth than for the good opinion of
society at large. The world laughed at them for thinking their
communications something beyond fraudulent tricks of impostors,
for regarding the apparitions of their cabinets as visitors from another
world. They knew quite well that the communications in a multitude
of cases were no more frauds than they were baked potatoes, that
people who called them such were talking utter folly, and in the same
way whatever the materialised
"
spirits
" were, they were not
in all cases, even if they might be in some, anything like the pillows
and nightgowns of a medium's assistant. So they held on gallantly
and reaped a reward which more than compensated them for the
silly success of ignorant outsiders in the consciousness of being in
contact with superhuman phenomena, and in the excitement of
original exploration. Nothing that has ever been experienced in
connexion with such excitement by early navigators in unknown
seas, can even have been comparable to the solemn interest which
spiritual enquirers (of the cultivated kind) must have felt at first as
they pushed off, in the frail bark of mediumship, out into the ocean
1 Verily so. For over thirty years have the dreamers and speculators upon the
rationale of
"
Spiritual
"
phenomena set their wind-mills to work night and day and
yet hitherto mortals and helping Spirits have ground out for the world but . . .
husks.
SPIRITUALISM AND OCCULT TRUTH 249
of the unknown world. And if they had realized all its perils one
might almost applaud the courage with which they set sail, as
warmly as their indifference to ridicule. But the heretics of one age
sometimes become the orthodox of the next, and, so apt is human
nature to repeat its mistakes, that the heirs of the martyrs may
sometimes develop into the persecutors of a new generation. This
is the direction in which modern Spiritualism is tending, and that
tendency, of all its characteristics, is the one we are chiefly con
cerned to protest against. The conclusions of Spiritualism, in
accurate and premature as they are, are settling into the shape of
orthodox dogma —while the facts of the great inquiry, numerous as
they are, are still chaotic and confused, their collectors insist on
working them up into specific doctrines about the future state, and
they are often as intolerant of any dissent from these doctrines as
the old-fashioned religionists were of them.
In fact, they have done the very thing which the Spiritualist, with
an inaptitude born of complete misapprehension of what Occult
Science really is, now accuses us of having done : they have given
themselves wholly over to
"
speculation-spinning." It is fairly
ludicrous to find this indictment laid at our door on account of our
" Fragments." The argument of that paper was to the effect that
Spiritualists should not jump to conclusions, should not weave hasty
theories, on the strength of siance-room experiments. Such and
such appearances may present themselves : beware of misunder
standing them. You may see an apparition standing before you
which you know to be perfectly genuine, that is to say, no trumpery
imposture by a fraudulent medium, and it may wear the outward
semblance of a departed friend, but do not on that account jump to
the conclusion that it is in this spirit of your departed friend, do not
spin speculations from the filmy threads of any such delusive fabric.
Listen first to the wisdom of the ancient philosophies in regard to
such appearances and permit us to point out the grounds on which
we deny what seems to be the plain and natural inference from the
facts. And then we will proceed to explain what we have reason to
know is the accepted theory of profound students of the ancient
philosophy. We were repeating doctrines as old as the pyramids,
but the Spiritualist not having hitherto paid attention to them
seems really to imagine that we have thrown them off on the spur
of the moment as a hypothesis, as Figuier does with his conjectures
in the Day after Death, or Jules Verne with his, in his Voyage round
the Moon. We cannot, it is true, quote any printed edition of the
ancient philosophies and refer the reader to chapter and verse, for
an article on the seven principles, but assuredly all profound students
of mystic literature will recognize the exposition on which we
ventured as supported, now in one way, now in another, by the
250 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
cautiously obscure teaching of occult writers. Of course, the condi
tions of occult study are so peculiar that nothing is more difficult
than to give one's
"
authorities
" for any statement connected with
it, but none the less is it really just as far from being
"
up in a
balloon
"
as any study can be. It has been explained repeatedly
that the continuity of occult knowledge amongst initiated adepts
is the attribute about it which commends their explanations—
absolutely to the acceptance of those who come to understand what
initiation means and what kind of people adepts are. From Sweden-
borg onwards there have been many seers who profess to gather
their knowledge of other worlds from actual observation, but such
persons are isolated, and subject to the delusions of isolation. Any
intelligent man will have an intuitive perception of this, expressing
itself in a reluctance on his part to surrender himself entirely to the
assurances of any such clairvoyants. But in the case of regularly-
initiated seers it must be remembered that we are dealing with a
long, —an extraordinarily long, —series of persons who, warned of
the confusing circumstances into which they pass when their spiritual
perceptions are trained to range beyond material limits, are so
enabled to penetrate to the actual realities of things, and who
constitute a vast organized body of seers, who check each other's
conclusions, test each other's discoveries and formulate their visions
into a science of spirit as precise and entirely trustworthy as, in
their humble way, are the conclusions, as far as they go, of any
branch of physical science. Such initiates are in the position, as
regards spiritual knowledge, that the regularly taught professor of a
great university is in, as regards literary knowledge, and any one
can appreciate the superior claims of instruction which might be
received from him, as compared with the crude and imperfect
instruction which might be offered by the merely self-taught man.
The initiate's speculations, in fact, are not spun at all ; they are laid
out before him by the accumulated wisdom of ages, and he has merely
followed, verified and assimilated them.
But it may be argued, if our statement about the teachings of
this absolutely trustworthy occult science claims to be something
more than assertion and hypothesis it is an assertion and, for the
world at large, a hypothesis, that any such continuously-taught
body of initiates is anywhere in existence. Now, in reference to
this objection, there are two observations to be made, firstly, that
there is a large mass of writings to be consulted on the subject, and
just as Spiritualists say to the outer world
"
if you read the literature
of Spiritualism, you will know how preposterous it is to continue
denying or doubting the reality of spiritual phenomena," so we say
to Spiritualists if you will only read the literature of Occultism it will
be very strange if you still doubt that the continuity of initiation
SPIRITUALISM AND OCCULT TRUTH 251
has been preserved. Secondly, we may point out that you may put
the question about the existence of initiates altogether aside, and yet
find in the philosophy of Occultism as expounded by those who do
labour under the impression that they have received their teaching
from competent instructors such inherent claims to intellectual
adoption that it will be strange if you do not begin to respect it as a
hypothesis. We do not say that the
"
Fragments
"
given in our
October number constitute a sufficiently complete scheme of things
to command conviction, [in] this way, on their own intrinsic merits, but
we do say that even taken by themselves they do not offend intuitive
criticism in the way that the alternative spiritual theory does. By
degrees as we are enabled to bring out more ore from the mine which
yielded the
"
Fragments," it will be found that every fresh idea pre
sented for consideration fits in with what has gone before, fortifies it,
and is fortified by this in turn. Thus, is it not worth notice that even
some notes we published in our December number in answer to
inquiries about Creation, help the mind to realize the way in which,
and the materials with which, the Elementaries in the one case, in
the other the automatically-acting Kama Rupa of the medium, may
fashion the materialized apparition which the Spiritualist takes for
the spirit of his departed friend ? It sometimes happens that a
materialized spirit will leave behind as a memento of his visit some
little piece cut from his spiritual
(?)
drapery. Does the Spiritualist
believe that the bit of muslin has come from the region of pure spirit
from which the disembodied soul descends
?
Certainly no philosophi
cally minded Spiritualist would, but
if
as regards the drapery such
a
person would admit that this
is
fashioned from the cosmic matter
of the universe by the will of the spirit which makes this manifest,
(accepting our theory so far) does
it
not rationally follow that all the
"
material
" of the materialized visitor must probably be also so
fashioned
?
And in that case,
if
the will of
a
spirit without form can
produce the particular form which the sitter recognizes as his dead
friend, does he not do this by copying the features required from
some records to which as
a
spirit he has access
;
and in that case
again
is
it
not clear that some other
"
spirit
"
would equally have
that power
?
Mere reflection, in fact, on the principles of creation
will lead one straight to
a
comprehension of the utter worthlessness
of resemblance in
a
materialized spirit, as
a
proof of identity.
Again, the facts of spiritual experience itself fortify the explana
tion we have given. Is
it
not the case that most Spiritualists of long
experience, —omitting the few circumstanced in the very peculiar
way that M. A. (Oxon) is, who are not in pursuit of dead friends at
all—are always reduced sooner or later to
a
state of absolute intel
lectual exasperation by the unprogressive character of their re
searches
?
How
is
it
that after all these twenty years that Spiritualists
252 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
have been conversing with their departed friends their knowledge of
the conditions of life in the next world is either still as hazy as the
rambling imagination of a pulpit orator, or, if precise at all,
grotesquely materialistic in its so-called spirituality ? Ifthe spirits were
what the Spiritualists think them, is it not obvious that they must
have made the whole situation more intelligible than it is—for most
people, —whereas, if they are, what we affirm that they are really,
is it not obvious that all they could do is exactly what they have
done ?
But, to conclude for the present, surely there need be no hostility, as
some Spiritual writers seem to have imagined, between the Spiritual
ists and ourselves, merely because we bring for the consideration
a new stock of ideas, —new, indeed, only as far as their application
to modern controversies is concerned, old enough as measured by
the ages that have passed over the earth since they were evolved.
A gardener is not hostile to roses, because he prunes his bushes and
proclaims the impropriety of letting bad shoots spring up from
below the graft. With the Spiritualists, students of Occultism must
always have bonds of sympathy which are unthought of in
the blatant world of earth-bound materialism and superstitious
credulity. Let them give us a hearing ; let them recognize us as
brother-worshippers of Truth, even though found in unexpected
places. They cannot prove so oblivious of their own traditions as to
refuse audience to any new plea, because it may disturb them in a
faith they find comfortable. Surely it was not to be comfortable
that they first refused to swim with the stream, in matters of
religious thought ; and deserted the easy communion of respectable
orthodoxy, happily trustful of the future state prescribed by the
Archbishop of Canterbury, and in the safe arrival there, if anyone
who takes a ticket for the right pew, as if it were a through carriage
for Paradise without break of gauge. Will Spiritualism only conquer
incredulity to find itself already degraded into a new church, sinking,
so to speak, into arm-chairs in its second childhood, and no longer
entitled to belief or vigorous enough for further progress ? It is not
a promising sign about a religious philosophy when it looks too
comfortable, when it promises too indulgent an asylum for our
speckled souls with hooris of the Mahomedan Elysium, or the all
too homelike society of the Spiritualist's -" Summer-land." We
bring our friends and brethren in Spiritualism no mere feather-
headed fancies, no light -spun speculation, when we offer them some
toil-won fragments of the mighty mountain of Occult knowledge, at
the base of whose hardly accessible heights we have learned to
estimate their significance and appreciate their worth. Is it asked
why we do not spread out the whole scroll of this much vaunted
philosophy for their inspection, at once, and so exhibit clearly its
NATURE-SPIRITS AND ELEMENTALS 253
all-sufficing coherence ? That question at least will hardly be asked
by thoughtful men who realize what an all-sufficient philosophy
of the Universe must be. As well might Columbus have been expected
to bring back America in his ships to Spain.
" Good friends, America,
will not come," he might have said,
"
but it is there across the waters
and, if you voyage as I did and the waves do not smother you, may
hap you will find it too."
NATURE-SPIRITS AND ELEMENTALS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, pp. 115-116.]
A correspondent of Light having asked Mrs. Emma Hardinge
Britten, the famous Spiritualist speaker and author, to state her
beliefs as regards the existence of sub-human orders of
"
spirits,"
our excellent friend has, in the number of that journal for 3rd
December, given them without reserve. Before quoting them, we
must inform our readers that the Spiritualists have always opposed
the allegations of Theosophists that such races of beings exist, and
we have had to put up with no little hard scolding from them. Mrs.
Britten, incautiously, as we think, uses the word
"
Elementary," to
signify nature-spirits, or the forces of Nature. A clear distinction
should be drawn between these nature-spirits, and the psychic shells
of once living human beings, known in India as bh&tas. To mark
this difference and, if possible, avoid confusion, we applied, in Isis,
the name
"
Elementals
" to the nature-spirits, and used the word
"
Elementary
"
to designate the bhutas. Mrs. Britten says :—
" Protesting in advance against being forced into the arena of
literary warfare, the unspiritual character of which too often
offends and disgusts the readers of our journals, I simply reply to
the inquiry of
'
Student,' that I—as one who not only believes
in Elementary Spirits, but claims to have seen them, and con
versed with many others who have had similar experiences —am
accustomed to classify all sub-human Spirits as elementary in
organization, and I presume the term
'
Nature-Spirits
'
is simply
applied to such existences from the position which they occupy
in the realm of nature.
" I have quite recently seen in one of the Spiritual journals, though
I cannot at this moment recall which, a beautiful simile, used to
represent the position of man in the scale of creation, namely, as
standing midway upon the famous ladder whose foot is on earth
and its highest round in Heaven. If this position represents a
physical truth, of which material existence is the visible witness,
is there no corresponding Spiritual ladder in which descending
254 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
grades of being are as obvious and philosophical a necessity, as
the ascending scale which Spiritualists so readily acknowledge ?
If the Darwinian chart of material progress presents features of
absolute demonstration on so many points that its unsolved
problems can afford to stand over, awaiting proofs which the
future must yield up, can the Spiritualist be content to supple
ment Darwin's merely materialistic footprints of being, with an
advance into Spiritual realms beyond matter, yet utterly ignore
the existence of Spiritual realms of being as the antecedents of
matter P1 Are there no embryonic states for the soul, as well as
for the body ; no realms of gestation for Spiritual, as well as for
material, forms ?
" I will take up your space no further than to repeat that I have
seen Elementary Spirits in many forms, and on many grades of
the scale of being, and that I believe I have conversed or corre
sponded with many hundreds of intelligent persons who think
with me, that they have as good evidence of the existence both of
sub-human and super-human Spirits, as of simply human Spirits.
That intercourse with these realms of being has been far more
rare than with human Spirits I allow ; hence those who have
entered upon it shrink back with as much dislike and pain from
the coarse denial and rude contempt of others who have not
shared their experience, as Spiritualists themselves feel when their
belief is assailed by ignorance and bigotry. Hence it is also that
little is said or written on this subject at present ; and though I
have reason to believe in the great unfoldments of Spiritual life
and being, upon the mere threshold of which we are now standing,
that far and wider and more astounding revelations from the
Spiritual side of man's nature await us than the limited vistas we
now gaze upon afford, I deem it in the best interests of truth that
we should advance most cautiously ; accepting only that which
we can prove in ordinary experiences, and leaving extraordinary
revealments to unfold themselves. . . .
I am, very faithfully yours,
Emma Hardinge-Britten."
The Limes, Humphrey-street,
Cheetham Hill, Manchester.
1 We do not know what the eminent author of History of Modern American
Spiritualism really means by the words
"
beyond
"
and
" antecedents of matter
" in
this application. Surely, she cannot mean that there exists any realm of
"
being
"
beyond or outside of matter ? Such realm would be one of pure Spirit, i.e., of absolute
immateriality in which it is hardly necessary to remind any one there can be no being ;
as a
"
being of any description whatsoever implies something organized, and that
something can never be formed out of nothing.
IN DESPERATE STRAITS 255
In the same number of Light we learn from a correspondent
signing himself
" Ma
"—that the
"
earliest Gods of Egypt, following
the Mother of the Gods, were the Eight who ruled in Am-Smen
before the firmament of Ra was uplifted ;
" and that
"
they are
known to all Egyptologists as the eight elementaries."
A new proof of the correctness of cyclic necessity : gods
worshipped ninety centuries b.C., becoming candidates for the same
in the nineteenth a.d. I
IN DESPERATE STRAITS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, pp. 116-117.]
The emotional letter to the Editor of a Christian journal of
London, from a well-known native clergyman of Ceylon, which we
copy below, is generously accorded the wide circulation of our
magazine to show that we bear no malice even to such bitter and
often truculent enemies as the missionaries have shown themselves
to be. It does seem rather amusing, however, that this writer, him
self a clergyman and presumably able to expound his religion, should
be appealing for help to Dr. Sexton, once upon a time a well-known
Spiritualist, and the editor of a Spiritualist paper, but at the same
time not lifting his hand to stop the Buddhist revival in Ceylon.
Mr. Spaar was one of the five Padris who were present at Panadure
on the 22nd of June, 1881 —the occasion, referred to in his letter
when a makeshift heterodox champion offered himself as an ant
agonist to Col. Olcott —but who did not open their mouths when
that gentleman said : "If, either now or at any other time prior
to my departure for India, the Christian party should put forward
a champion whom I can without sacrificing self-respect meet in
debate, their challenge will be accepted." This year, again, the old
game of putting up obscure laymen to challenge our President was
repeated, but, of course, no notice was taken of them. Our mission
is not one of aggression, but of defence. We defend, first, the
principle of Universal Brotherhood and mutual tolerance, and then
the right of all Asiatic peoples, to be left unmolested in the enjoy
ment of their ancient faiths. Whatever we have ever done against
missionaries in Asia has been done, because those propagandists are
trying their utmost to stamp out and destroy religions far better
suited to Asiatic moral needs than the one they would introduce, and
taking advantage of the ignorance of youth to turn them into
irreligious sceptics. As for the present editor of the Shield of Faith
whose help is implored, he is a man of learning and eloquence, but
may prove no more persistent in defending the
"
Holy Ghost," than
256 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
he was in advocating the cause of the unholy ghosts in general.1 A
whilom Spiritualist who has turned his coat, though he be, yet, his
argumentum ad crumenam —to
"
raise the funds
"—the usual appeal
to the pockets of the faithful on such occasions —in the editorial
which we quote below ought to be responded to by the Sinhalese
Christians at once, and the Rev. Spaar should head the list. To help
the worthy gentleman in his distress, we now quote from his plaintive
letter :—
Kalutara, Ceylon, August 4, 1881.
Rev. Sir, — . . . Never was there such a revival of unbelief as
there is at present in Ceylon. The battle for the truth must ere
long be fought, and God grant that some valiant David may arise
to stand up against the Philistines of error and infidelity who
stalk through the land. All this while we have had to deal with
difficulties arising from the purely heathen Buddhist, but now
there has sprung up in our midst, a
"
Theosophical Society,"
whose President and Founder in Ceylon is a professed American,
[sic] Col. H. S. Olcott. He first arrived in the island towards the
end of last year, in company with Madame Blavatsky, who pro
fessed to work miracles. 2
Both of them visited several towns and
villages, lecturing against Christianity, indulging in horrible
blasphemies. They declared themselves converted to Buddhism,
and worshipped at its shrines.3 After preaching or lecturing, Col.
Olcott usually challenges any one to come forward and meet him
in debate. At one place his challenge was accepted by a native
Christian, quite sanguine that some Christian English missionary
would joyfully come forward in defence of the faith ; but the idea
of the missionaries is to let well alone, and that all this will come
to nought. Col. Olcott is believed to be quite a master of the
sciences, having lectured on those of an occult character. This
native Christian having failed in enlisting the sympathies of the
1 The Medium and Daybreak (November n) says :—
Dr. Sexton continues to enlarge the profits of his ministry by condemning
Spiritualism as
"
decidedly anti-Christian."
"
A Humanitarian
"
replies to him
at length in the South Shields Daily News ; we make one extract :
" Could any
thing be more foolish than to censure a cause for doing the very work which it is
sent into the world to perform, viz., to convert the sinner and unbeliever from
the error of his ways ? Does not everybody know that the worthy doctor was
himself an Atheist for many years, and that it was through his association with
Spiritualism that he became possessed of a belief in a future life, and in a Provi
dence who rules wisely and well ? The eloquence of Christendom was launched at
him in vain : he remained a staunch Atheist : but—the Phenomena of Spiritual
ism being proved by him to be genuine —he now looks triumphantly over the
grave, and gratefully advises his hearers to believe that it is all the work of
'
evil
spirits I
' "
» Who never professed anything of the kind ; the statement is a padri-born.
bare-faced untruth. We leave the claim of working
"
miracles
"
to the
" Generals "
and
"
Captains
"
of the
" Salvation Army."
* The latter never lectured in her life, and is a Buddhist for the last twenty years.
IN DESPERATE STRAITS 257
missionaries, got a member of the
"
Christo-Brahmo-Somaj
" to
take up the gauntlet thrown down by Col. Olcott ; but when the
opponents met Col. Olcott declined to hold any discussion with a
man who was not a Christian, on the subject of the Divine Origin
of Christianity. Having made collections in aid of what is now
known as the
"
Sinhalese National Buddhist Fund," the Theo-
sophists left for Bombay, where they endeavour to make us
believe they are very strong, and where they issue a monthly
magazine called The Theosophist. Whilst there, it appears from
the papers that a split occurred, and several of Col. Olcott 's
followers left for America. The Colonel himself, encouraged per
haps by the welcome accorded to him here on his previous visit,
when he was hailed as the
" White Buddhist
" has come back
with one Mr. Bruce (this time without Madame Blavatsky)
described as Inspector of Schools. The former is busily engaged
in publishing pamphlets, catechisms, &c., lecturing and raising
money, and opening schools with the avowed object of stopping
heathen children from attending Christian schools. I send you a
copy of this man's catechism. A pamphlet, by one Professor
Woodrof, has been published and circulated widely. It treats of
the so-called
"
discrepancies in the Gospels." If ever the
"
heathen
rage and the people imagine a vain thing
" it is now. The silence
of the missionaries is construed into want of ability to meet this
Goliath. I am sure that there is more than one quite competent
in the name of the Lord of Hosts to go out to battle ; but as I
said before, the convenient method of getting over it is by saying
"
Don't be afraid, Col. O. won't do much harm ; it will all come
to an end."
"
There isn't much good gained by controversy. It
is not in my line."
"
Let us preach the Gospel." God only knows,
however, the incalculable mischief that is done. A few native
Christians have just formed themselves into an
"
Evangelical
Union
" for the purpose of doing something, but their efforts are
sure to meet with the cold shoulder from those who are
" the sent."
I have just read that Rev. Joseph Cook purposes to visit India
shortly. Oh I if it would please the Lord to send him or you
among us for a season.
I must also mention that an English infidel paper is getting
among us ; the other day a railway traveller was giving away
some, and I noticed copies on the library table of this town, where
one of my friends also put in your Shield of Faith.
Yours in the Lord,
J. A. Spaar.
P.S. —A supply of tracts, &c., against infidelity for circulation
will be welcome.
258 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
Dr. Sexton editorially offers to not only visit Ceylon but make
the tour around the globe if
"
the friends ... in each of these
countries form societies, raise funds, and make the preliminary
arrangements." Then he modestly adds,
"
they can, in their turn,
challenge the Olcotts, the Blavatskys, el hoc genus omne." Here is
a chance for the Rev. Spaar that he should not let slip ; and will
not unless —as his behaviour at Panadure would seem to show —
he too is disposed
"
to let well alone," and not make himself appear
ridiculous by playing the
" David
"
when the theosophical
"
Goliath"
is
" to the front." Since Dr. Sexton and his correspondent are fond
of Latin may we not be permitted to remark that if the Theosophical
movement for them is a —Deo dignus vindice nodus they ought to
adopt more dignified means to get out of their difficulties than that
of spreading false and slanderous reports against it in their Christian
organs. Abusus non tollit usum ; abuse and calumny are no argu
ments though certainly they do appear as the delicice theologicce.
At all events the time for arguing is past and they ought to resort
to more effective means. Let then Dr. Sexton or Rev. Joseph Cook
hurry at once to Ceylon ; and making a supreme effort to clear the
korales of the fair island for ever of the
"
Philistines of error," the
"
Olcotts and the Blavatskys," —have them slain by the American
London Samsons, in the name of the
" Lord of Hosts," and with
the traditional biblical weapon —"
the jaw of an ass
"—which Mr.
Cook handles in such a remarkably dexterous manner.
FOOTNOTE TO
*'
THE PISACHA-DANCERS "
[The Theosophisl, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, pp. 119-120.]
[A description is given of the unfortunate victims of obsession and
some of the methods of exorcising the pisachas or evil spirits are
enumerated. Mention is made of the fact that, after a person's
death, his kindred offer sacrifice in the shape of rice-balls, calling
upon the name of the departed spirit.
" No educated person would
for a moment think that the spirit of the deceased hears him, or—
less than all—can taste the food so offered. It is done simply as a
duty to the memory of the dead. ..." To this H. P. B. appends
the following footnote :]
In Christian Russia the same custom of offering rice to the dead
prevails throughout the Empire. For six weeks after the death of a
person, dishes full of rice with a wax taper stuck in the middle of it
are sent at regular periods to the parish church or laid on the tomb
of the defunct. There, with the rice placed near, a mass is said for
the rest of the departed soul in order that it should not become a
A CONJUROR AMONG THE SPIRITUALISTS 259
bhut, a restless wandering soul in the earth-region—the latter being
considered the greatest misfortune. In Roman Catholic countries
it is the same thought or fear for the soul's torments at being earth-
bound that underlies the ceremony of the Feast of the Dead held
throughout Christendom on the 2nd of November.
FOOTNOTE TO "A FLASH OF LIGHT UPON
OCCULT FREEMASONRY"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, pp. 135-137.]
[To this article which deals with the dispute between the Raja of
Travancore and the Raja of Cochin with regard to alleged rights of
jurisdiction over the Masonic Temple of Kudal-manikkam, H. P. B.
appends the following footnote :]
European and even Hindu students of Occultism are often deplor
ing and even wondering, why all the
" Initiates
"
or
"
adepts
" seem
to have died out in India. They have not
"
died
" out, nor, is their
absence due to
"
Kali Yuga
"
as popularly yet erroneously supposed.
The
"
adepts
"
have simply and gradually if not altogether forsaken
India, at least retired from its public populated portions, keeping
their knowledge and often their very existence as secret as they can.
Many of them are gone beyond the Himalayas. Some yet remain—
especially in Southern India, but few are the privileged ones who
know of them ; still fewer those who could point out their places of
retreat.
A CONJUROR AMONG THE SPIRITUALISTS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), February, 1882, p. 137.]
Following is an article1 taken from the Bombay Gazette of January
30, in which we find a new and very important proof of the reality
of the phenomena produced by some genuine mediums. The testi
mony of an eminent conjuror well versed in every professional and
non-professional trick, and actually alive to the possibilities of
legerdemain, carries more weight with it, we trust, than the denial
of a thousand worldly sceptics educated in Greek and Latin, but
utterly ignorant of the possibilities of nature and the limitations of
legerdemain. We feel doubly happy for the opportunity offered us
by adding the testimony of Mr. H. Kellar to thoseof Messrs. Maskelyne
1
[The article referred to takes the form of a letter by Mr. Harry Kellar describing
a seance with the famous medium Eglinton when phenomena took place which could
not be accounted for as the result of trickery or sleight-of-hand. —ad.]
260 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
and Cook, Bellachini, and other eminent conjurors, to confound our
detractors : happy for the Spiritualists who have found in Mr.
Eglinton such a powerful and useful ally, and happy for those
Theosophists who either believe in or themselves produce various
phenomena. It matters little comparatively whether the latter
are regarded as mediums or occultists, as being
" controlled
" and
"
guided
"
by
" disembodied spirits
"
or inspired by living cis- or
/raws-Himalayan
"
Brothers." Before the vexed question —" Do
the Brothers exist ?
"—is settled, the reality and genuineness of the
phenomena variously ascribed to both spirits and Brothers must
be proved. In our deadly strife with society, it is far more important
to us to gain our chief point with them—namely, the right to take
our critics publicly to task, and challenge them to prove which of
us—the millions of Spiritualists and Theosophists, or the masses
of sneering and insulting sceptics who deny that of which they know
nothing —may best be described as deluded fools, impostors and
bigots. We have reason to hope and believe that the time when
our good friends, the psychophobists and materialists, may be
invited to keep company with those fossils of old who voted to burn
Galileo—is at hand. Meanwhile, cooly waving them off, we might
ask these importunate and infatuated Alexanders
"
not to stand
between us and the Sun."
MADAME BLAVATSKY'S REPLY TO
MR. JOSEPH COOK
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 5 (29), Supplement, February, 1882,
P- 15-3
Editor's Office of The Theosophist, Bombay,
20th January, 1882.
" Madame Blavatsky, while sending her compliments to Mr. J.
Cook, offers him many thanks for the free advertisement of the
Theosophical Society—of which she is one of the Founders —and of
her work Isis, in his highly dramatical and sensational performances
called lectures. Mr. Cook had the means of ascertaining last
evening what effect his denunciation of, and false statements about
the Theosophical Society, on January 17, had upon the native
public. The long and unexpected applause of greeting upon the
appearance of the two Founders in the Hall shows better than any
words the esteem in which Mr. Cook's denunciations are held.
Madame Blavatsky especially thanks Mr. Cook for the good taste
and tact he exhibited in the opening sentence of his speech, so
REPLY TO MR. JOSEPH COOK 261
menacingly referring to four policemen —the mention of whom, as
he thought, was capable of checking the expression of the good
feeling of the natives towards those whom they know to love them
unselfishly, and to have devoted their lives and means to defend
them and their children from the demoralizing influence of those
who would pervert them from their respective faiths into missionary
Christianity. These influences are too well known to the rulers and
the ruled to need detailed notice. The term
'
native Christian
'
in India is almost synonymous with a
'
drunken and lying rascal
'
in the mouth of the English themselves. Mr. Cook is welcome to try
to tear down the Theosophical Society everywhere he goes—as he
will always find Theosophists and Arya Samajists to answer him.
At the same time Mr. Cook is warned —unless he would risk to have
his triumphant progress through India checked by a disagreeable
law-suit —to beware what he says of Madame Blavatsky or Col.
Olcott personally, as other and more influential persons than an
American preacher, —namely, Englishmen, —have found that there
are laws in this country to protect even American citizens from
malicious calumny. As neither Col. Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky
will ever return to America, Mr. Cook's remark that they are trying
to learn sorcery here to teach it to mediums in America is absurdly
false and truculent —though little else could have been expected
from such an exemplar of Christian meekness and charity. To show
Mr. Cook who Madame Blavatsky is, a printed circular is enclosed.
Mr. Cook's aspersions will be fully answered and proved false to
night. If, instead of accepting the challenge, he runs away, all
India will be notified of the cowardly act."
He did run away. As reports of the proceedings will be published
in a separate pamphlet, and a copy sent gratis to each of our sub
scribers in the next number we need only notice, at this time, Mr.
Cook's cowardly rejoinder to the four challenges above noted, and
append as the sequel a correspondence between Captain Banon and
himself at Poona, in which, his unfairness and moral obliquity are
most clearly shown.
As men of his kind love to slander people behind their backs,
but keep ever aloof and avoid to face those whom they denounce,
Mr. Cook took care that his answer to the four challenges should
reach the writers when he was already near Poona, and at a secure
distance from the Theosophical audience. That answer was handed
by a Mussalman to the President at the Framji Hall in the evening,
and when he was already on the platform ready to open the meeting.
[This letter was followed by correspondence from Mr. Cook and
others —Ed.]
262 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
A NEEDED EXPLANATION
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, p. 139.]
A valued friend and correspondent in Upper India writes :
" We have not had the pleasure of hearing from you since your
return to Bombay. We do not want to trespass upon your most
valuable time, but we do earnestly pray that you will be pleased to
write to us once a month, should you find leisure."
This is from the President of one of our Indian branch Societies,
and we print the extract that we may thus answer many of like
tenor that are received by the Founders. Since the Theosophical
Society was established we two have had to do all its more important
work ; not because our colleagues have been at all unwilling to share
the burden, but because enquirers have seemed, like the patients
of a popular doctor, or the clients of a leading lawyer—reluctant to
take advice or instructions from any one in the Society but ourselves.
This was well enough in the infancy of our movement, and by working
late in the night, sometimes all night long, the year round, we
managed for the first three years to keep up with our official duties.
But our coming to India doubled, perhaps trebled, the calls upon
our time. We were not relieved from our Western correspondence,
while at the same time the whole volume of enquiries, naturally
provoked among the people of Asia by our coming, poured in upon
us besides. So our magazine was determined upon, and in the
Prospectus issued at Bombay, in July 1879, it was stated that
" the
rapid growth of the Society and of the correspondence between
the Executive and the Society's branches in various European
countries, and with the Aryan, Buddhist, Parsi and Jain scholars
who take a deep interest in its work . . . has made necessary
the publication of the present journal." There is a limit both to
physical endurance and to the number of hours in a day. With the
most benevolent wishes to oblige, the Founders cannot engage to
regularly correspond with anybody, whether in or outside the Society.
They will do their best, but our friends will kindly remember that
neither Col. Olcott, with lecturing engagements enough to break
down a man of less iron endurance, nor the Editor of The Theosophist
with the cares of its management and her indispensable journeys
about India for several months each year, can in fairness be reproached
for failure to keep up private correspondence even with relatives or
nearest personal friends. The more so, when they reflect that much
of the guidance and instruction asked, can be found in the pages of
our Magazine.
THE HERMETIC BRETHREN 263
THE HERMETIC BRETHREN1
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 139-140.]
" '
. . . We of the secret knowledge do wrap ourselves in mystery,
to avoid the objurgation and importunity of those who conceive
that we cannot be philosophers unless we put our knowledge to some
worldly use. There is scarcely one who thinks about us who does
not believe that our Society has no existence ; because, as he truly
declares, he never met any of us. We do not come, as he assuredly
expects, to that conspicuous stage, upon which, like himself, as he
desires the gaze of the vulgar, every fool may enter, winning wonder
if the man's appetite be that empty way ; and when he has obtained
it, crying out :
" Lo, this is also vanity I
" '
" Dr. Edmond Dickenson, physician to King Charles the Second,
a professed seeker of the hermetic knowledge, produced a book
entitled, De Quinta Essentia Philosophorum which was printed
at Oxford in 1686, and a second time in 1705. ... In corre
spondence with a French adept, the latter explains the reasons
why the Brothers of the Rosy Cross concealed themselves. As to
the universal medicine Elixir Vita, or potable form of the preter
natural menstruum, he positively asserts that it is in the hands of
the
'
Illuminated,' but that, by the time they discover it, they
have ceased to desire its uses, being far above them ; and as to
life for centuries, being wistful for other things, they decline
availing themselves of it. He adds that the adepts are obliged
to conceal themselves for the sake of safety, because they would
be abandoned in the consolations of the intercourse of this world
(if
they were not, indeed, exposed to worse risks), supposing that
their gifts were proven to the conviction of the bystanders as more
than human
;
when they would become simply abhorrent. Thus,
there are excellent reasons for their conduct
;
they proceed with
the utmost caution, and instead of making
a
display of their powers
as vain-glory
is
the least distinguishing characteristic of these
great men, they studiously evade the idea that they have any
extraordinary or separate knowledge. They live simply as mere
spectators in the world, and they desire to make no disciples, con
verts nor confidants. They submit to the obligations of life, and to
1
Extracted from The Rosicrucians by Hargreave Jennings, pp. 34-35 (John
Camden Hotten, Piccadilly, W. London.) Further on, we give a review by this able
writer of Mr. Sinnett's Occult World. These passages, as the author tells us,
" occur
in a letter published by some anonymous members of the Rose-Croix, and are ad
duced in a translation from the Latin by one of the most famous men of the order,
who addressed from the University of Oxford about the period of Oliver Cromwell
;
to which University the great English Rosicrucian, Robertus De Fluctibus (Robert
Flood) also belonged in the time of James the First and Charles the First."
264 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
relationships1 —enjoying the fellowship of none, admiring none,
following none, but themselves. They obey all codes, are excellent
citizens, and only preserve silence in regard to their own private
beliefs, giving the world the benefit of their acquirements up to
a certain point ; seeking only sympathy at some angles of their
multiform character, but shutting out curiosity when they do
not wish its imperative eyes. . . . This is the reason that the
Rosicrucians pass through the world mostly unnoticed, and that
people generally disbelieve that there are such persons ; or believe
that, if there are, their pretensions are an imposition. It is easy
to discredit things which we do not understand. . . ."
We came across the above, the other day, in the course of reading,
and copy it to show that the difficulty which our sceptical public
feels in crediting the existence of the tfrans-Himalayan recluses is
no new thing. The jeering pleasantry of Archdeacon Baly, who
told the Church Missionary Convention that
"
Theosophy was a
new religion based on juggling tricks
" is but the echo of the sneers
of the generations in which Thomas Vaughan, Robert Flood, Count
St. German, Theophrastus Paracelsus and other
"
Hermetic
"
philosophers lived and studied. Our Theosophical Society pays the
penalty of its reaffirmation of the Truth of Hermetic Science, not
merely in receiving the world's ridicule, but also in having it try to
ignore a deal of honest work of the practical sort, which we have done,
and are doing.
It is cheering, therefore, to find a bit of sound sense in, at least,
one Indian paper. Says our excellent Amrita Bazar Patrika i
" We hail the appearance of the January number of The
Theosophist with more than ordinary pleasure. It is as usual
replete with interesting matter, but the chief interest of the
number is centred in an account of the doings of Colonel Olcott
in Ceylon published in the Supplement. We are sorry we have
not space enough to record all that he has done there, but this we
say that the Colonel may fairly claim that, whether there be
'
Himalayan Brothers
'
or not, there is at least one white man
who is acting like a brother to the Sinhalese and will, as occasion
permits it, act similarly to the Hindus. If it be not asking too
much, we would request the Colonel to come to the city of Palaces
and enlighten the Calcutta public on subjects with which he is
so familiar and which are calculated to do so much good to the
Hindu nation, —subjects of which most of our educated young men
are so lamentably ignorant."
1 Not at all in every instance : it depends upon the degree of their advancement,
their earthly ties snapping one after the other as their new spiritual ones are formed.
BUDDHIST MORALS 265
Let this be our sufficient answer to the silly though, as alleged,
"
mostly inspirational
" article by the author of Life beyond the
Grave (Spiritualist of Jan. 13) entitled
"
Spiritual Selfishness." The
writer affirms that the
"
Himalayan Brothers . . . wrap themselves
in mystery and pretend to have a mission to perform, but they make
no sign of accomplishing it
" and further that
" Madame Blavatsky
. . . cannot show that any practical good comes of being a Theoso-
phist. We have not heard that she has benefited humanity by being
a Theosophist." . . . Perhaps, some members of our various
Branches throughout India and Ceylon, who have participated in
our practical work, may also feel
"
inspired
" to correct the rather
unfortunate
"
inspiration
" of the author of Life beyond the
Grave.
BUDDHIST MORALS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, p. 143.]
In a recent issue of the China Mail appears an account of the
destruction of the
"
Temple of Longevity," one of the richest and
most famous Buddhist Viharas at Canton, China, by an infuriated
mob of Buddhist laymen. For some time past complaints have been
made of the immoral lives of the priests of this temple, but they
appear to have neglected paying attention to warnings from the
Nam-hoi, Chief Magistrate. At last three women were seen to enter
the building, an outcry was made, the populace rushed in, but the
women had escaped by the back door. The mob, however, found
" ladies' toilet-boxes, ornaments and embroidered shoes," and
thereupon beat and drove out the priests, and tore the ancient
building stone from stone until not a vestige remained. Even this
did not satisfy their outraged sense of propriety, for, the Mail
tells us, they set fire to the ruins and consumed the last stick of its
roof timbers that lay in the wreck. It is said that the (Abbot) Chief
Priest fell upon his knees before the Nam-hoi, and implored his help,
but was made to feel the force of his Worship's toe after being
reminded that
"
timely warnings had been disregarded." The
Magistrate, on the 15th November last, issued an official proclamation
beginning as follows :
" Whereas the priests of the Ch'eung-Shau
monastery have disobeyed the official proclamation by allowing
women to enter the temple and detaining them there, and the
people of the neighbourhood have suddenly surrounded and set fire
to the building, the superior authorities have now ordered a detach
ment of over a thousand soldiers to be stationed along the streets
to extinguish what fire there be still remaining," etc. The
proclamation contains not one word in censure of the act of
266 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
retribution ; from which it is to be inferred that it met with
official approval.
Turning to Bishop Bigandet's excellent work on Burmese
Buddhism, The Life or Legend of Gautama, etc., we find (pp. 290, 291)
that :
"
Popular opinion [in Burma] is inflexible and inexorable on
the point of celibacy, which is considered essential to every one
that has a pretension to be called a Rahan, [in Ceylon termed
Rahat, or Arahat]. The people can never be brought to look
upon any person as a priest or minister of religion unless he lives
in that state. Any infringement of this most essential regulation
on the part of a Rahan is visited with an immediate punishment.
The people of the place assemble at the Kiaong (Vilara, temple)
of the offender, sometimes driving him out with stones. He is
stripped of his clothes : and often public punishment, even that
of death, is inflicted upon him, by order of Government. The poor
wretch is looked upon as an outcast and the woman whom he
has seduced shares in his shame, confusion, and disgrace. Such
an extraordinary opinion, so deeply rooted in the mind of a people
rather noted for the licentiousness of their manners, certainly
deserves theattention of every diligent observer of human nature."1
The sociologist will be struck with the stem regard here seen to
be felt both among the Chinese and Burmese Buddhists for the
reputation of their priests. The same feeling prevails in Tibet,
where one who is included in the sacerdotal order, whether as lama
or ordained priest, is punished with death for breach of the rule of
chastity. He and the woman are either bound together with ropes
and flung into the nearest stream or pond to drown, or buried to
the chin in the ground and left to die by inches. The lavish honour
shown to the Buddhist priesthood in all Buddhistic countries, is the
popular tribute to the supposed high moral excellence of a class of
men who profess to imitate the character, and follow the precepts
of Lord Buddha. And candour will compel every fair man to say
with the Romish Bishop of Rangoon, that their moral characters
are, as a rule, blameless. Lazy, they are beyond doubt, and too often
selfish and ignorant ; but the cases of sexual indulgence among
members of the Sangha are comparatively very rare. Col. Olcott's
experience, in Ceylon, tallies with Bishop Bigandet's, in Burma.
The vengeance taken upon recreant priests in China and Burma is
the more impressive since we can recall no instance among Christians
of religious houses having been demolished by mobs, because of
the immoralities of clergymen or priests. And yet there has been
1
[Square brackets are H, P. B.'s. —Ed.]
REINCARNATIONS IN TIBET 267
provocation of that sort often enough given, unless rumour has belied
some world-famous Reverends and some thousands more of their
profession in Europe and America.
REINCARNATIONS IN TIBET
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 146-148.]
So little is known by Europeans of what is going on in Tibet, and
even in the more accessible Bhootan, that an Anglo-Indian paper, —
one of those which pretend to know, and certainly discuss every
blessed subject, whether they really know anything of it or not,
—actually came out with the following bit of valuable information :
" It may not be generally known that the Deb Raja of Bhootan,
who died in June last, but whose decease has been kept dark till
the present moment, probably to prevent disturbances, is our old
and successful opponent of 1864-65
The Bhootan Government consists of a spiritual chief called the
Dhurm Raja, an incarnation of Buddha (? I !) who never dies—and
a civil ruler called the Deb Raja in whom is supposed to centre all
authority."
A more ignorant assertion could hardly have been made. It may
be argued that
"
Christian
"
writers believe even less in Buddha's
reincarnations than the Buddhists of Ceylon, and, therefore, trouble
themselves very little, whether or not they are accurate in their
statements. But, in such a case, why touch a subject at all ? Large
sums are annually spent by Governments to secure old Asiatic
manuscripts and learn the truth about old religions and peoples,
and it is not showing respect for either science or truth to mislead
people interested in them by a flippant and contemptuous treatment
of facts.
On the authority of direct information received at our Head
quarters, we will try to give a more correct view of the situation
than has hitherto been had from books. Our informants are firstly
—some very learned lamas ; secondly —a European gentleman
traveller, who prefers not to give his name ; and thirdly—a highly
educated young Chinaman, brought up in America, who has since
preferred to the luxuries of worldly life and the pleasures of Western
civilization, the comparative privations of a religious and contem
plative life in Tibet. Both of the two last-named gentlemen are
Fellows of our Society, and the latter —our
" Celestial
" Brother
losing, moreover, no opportunity of corresponding with us. A mes
sage from him has been just received via Darjeeling.
268 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
In the present article, it is not much that we will have to say.
Beyond contradicting the queer notion of the Bhootanese Dharma
Raja being
" an incarnation of Buddha," we will only point out a
few absurdities, in which some prejudiced writers have indulged.
It certainly was never known—least of all in Tibet —that the
spiritual chief of the Bhootanese was
"
an incarnation of Buddha,
who never dies." The
"
Dug-pa1 or Red Caps
"
belong to the old
Nyang-na-pa sect, who resisted the religious reform introduced by
Tsong-kha-pa between the latter part of the fourteenth and the begin
ning of the fifteeth centuries. It was only after a lama coming to
them from Tibet in the tenth century had converted them from the
old Buddhist faith —so strongly mixed up with the Bhon practices
of the aborigines —into the Shammar sect, that, in opposition to the
reformed
"
Gyelukpas," the Bhootanese set up a regular system of
reincarnations. It is not Buddha though, or
"
Sang-gyas
"—as
he is called by the Tibetans —who incarnates himself in the Dharma
Raja, but quite another personage ; one of whom we will speak
later on.
Now what do the Orientalists know of Tibet, its civil adminis
tration, and especially its religion and its rites ? That, which they
have learned from the contradictory, and in every case imperfect
statements of a few Roman Catholic monks, and of two or three
daring lay travellers, who, ignorant of the language, could scarcely
be expected to give us even a bird's-eye view of the country. The
missionaries, who introduced themselves in 1719, stealthily into
Llassa,2 were suffered to remain there but a short time and were
finally forcibly expelled from Tibet. The letters of the Jesuits —
Desideri, and Johann Grueber, and especially that of Fra della
Penna, teem with the greatest absurdities.3 Certainly as super
stitious, and apparently far more so than the ignorant Tibetans
themselves, on whom they father every iniquity, one has but to
read these letters to recognize in them that spirit of odium theologicum
felt by every Christian, and especially Catholic missionary for the
"
heathen
"
and their creeds ; a spirit which blinds one entirely to
the sense of justice. And when could have been found any better
opportunity to ventilate their monkish ill-humour and vindictiveness
than in the matter of Tibet, the very land of mystery, mysticism
1 The term Dug-pa in Tibet is deprecatory. They themselves pronounce it
"
Dog-
pa" from the root to bind (religious binders to the old faith) ; while the paramount
sect —the Gyeluk-pa (yellow caps) —and the people, use the word in the sense of
Dug-pa mischief-makers, sorcerers. The Bhootanese are generally called Dug-pa
throughout Tibet and even in some parts of Northern India.
2 Out of twelve Capuchin friars who, under the leadership of Father della Penna,
established a mission at Lhassa, nine died shortly after, and only three returned
home to tell the tale. (See Tibet, by Mr. Clements R. Markham.)
• See Appendix to Narratives of the Mission of George Bogle to Tibet. By Clements
R. Markham, C.B., F.R.S., Trubner & Co., London.
REINCARNATIONS IN TIBET 269
and seclusion ? Beside these few prejudiced
" historians," but five
more men of Europe ever stepped into Tibet . Of these, three —Bogle ,
Hamilton and Turner —penetrated no farther than its borderlands ;
Manning —the only European who is known to have set his foot into
Lha-ssa1 —died without revealing its secrets, for reasons suspected,
though never admitted, by his only surviving nephew —a clergyman ;
and Csomo de Koros, who never went beyond Zanskar, and the
lamasery of Phag-dal.2
The regular system of the Lamalc incarnations of
"
Sang-gyas
"
(or Buddha) began with Tsong-kha-pa. This reformer is not the
incarnation of one of the five celestial Dhyans, or heavenly Buddhas,
as is generally supposed, said to have been created by Sakya Muni
after he had risen to Nirvana, but that of
" Amita," one of the
Chinese names for Buddha. The records preserved in the G6n-pa
(lamasery) of
"
Tda-shi Hlum-po
"
(spelt by the English Teshu
Lumbo) show that Sang-gyas incarnated himself in Tsong-kha-pa in
consequence of the great degradation his doctrines had fallen into.
Until then, there had been no other incarnations than those of the
five celestial Buddhas and of their Bodhisatwas, each of the former
having created (read, overshadowed with his spiritual wisdom) five
of the last-named—there were, and now are in all but thirty
incarnations —five Dhyans and twenty-five Bodhisatwas. It was
because, among many other reforms, Tsong-kha-pa forbade necro
mancy, (which is practised to this day with the most disgusting rites,
by the Bhons—the aborigines of Tibet —with whom the Red Caps,
or Shammars, had always fraternized) that the latter resisted his
authority. This act was followed by a split between the two sects.
Separating entirely from the Gyalukpas, the Dugpas (Red Caps)
—from the first in a great minority —settled in various parts of Tibet,
chiefly its borderlands, and principally in Nepaul and Bhootan.
But, while they retained a sort of independence at the monastery
of Sakia-Djong, the Tibetan residence of their spiritual
(?)
chief
Gong-sso Rimbo-chay, the Bhootanese have been from their beginning
the tributaries and vassals of the Dalai-Lamas. In his letter to
Warren Hastings in 1774, the Tda-shi Lama, who calls the Bhootans
"
a
rude and ignorant race," whose
"
Deb Rajah
is
dependent upon
1
We speak of the present century. It
is
very dubious whether the two mis
sionaries Hue and Gabet ever entered Lha-ssa. The Lamas deny it.
*
We are well aware that the name
is
generally written Pugdal, but
it
is
erroneous
to do so.
" Pugdal
"
means nothing, and the Tibetans do not give meaningless
names to their sacred buildings. We do not know how CsCmo de KorSs spells it, but,
as in the case of Pho-ta-la of Lha-ssa loosely spelt
" Potala
"—the lamasery of Phag-
dal derives its name from Phag pa (phag —eminent in holiness, Buddha-like, spiritual
;
and pha-man, father) the title of
" Awalokiteswara," the Bodhisatwa who incarnates
himself in the Dalai Lama of Lha-ssa. The valley of the Ganges where Buddha
preached and lived,
is
also called
" Phag-yul," the holy, spiritual land
;
the word
.phag coming from the one root—Pha or PhO being the corruption of Fo—(or Buddha)
as the Tibetan alphabet contains no letter F.
270 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the Dalai-Lama," omits to say that they are also the tributaries
of his own State and have been now for over three centuries and a
half. The Tashi Lamas were always more powerful and more highly
considered than the Dalai-Lamas. The latter are the creation of the
Tashi-Lama, Nabang-Lob-Sang, the sixth incarnation of Tsong-
kha-pa —himself an incarnation of Amitabha, or Buddha. This
hierarchy was regularly installed at Lha-ssa, but it originated only
in the latter half of the seventeenth century. 1
In Mr. C. R. Markham's highly interesting work above noticed,
the author has gathered every scrap of information that was ever
brought to Europe about that terra incognita. It contains one
passage, which, to our mind, sums up in a few words the erroneous
views taken by the Orientalists of Lamaism in general, and of its
system of perpetual reincarnation especially.
" It was, indeed,"
it reads,
"
at about the period of Hiuen-Thsang's journey, that
Buddhism first began to find its way into Tibet, both from the
direction of China and that of India ; but it came in a very different
form from that in which it reached Ceylon several centuries earlier.
Traditions, metaphysical speculations, and new dogmas, had over
laid the original Scriptures with an enormous collection of more
recent revelation. Thus Tibet received a vast body of truth, and
could only assimilate a portion for the establishment of popular
belief. Since the original Scriptures had been conveyed into Ceylon
by the son of Asoka, it had been revealed to the devout Buddhists
of India that their Lord had created the five Dhyani or celestial
Buddhas, and that each of these had created five Bodhisatwas, or
beings in the course of attaining Buddha-hood. The Tibetans took
firm hold of this phase of the Buddhistic creed, and their distinctive
belief is that the Bodhisatwas continued to remain in existence
for the good of mankind by passing through a succession of human
beings from the cradle to the grave. This characteristic of their
faith was gradually developed, and it was long before it received its
present form ;2 but the succession of incarnate Bodhisatwas was
1 Says Mr. Markham in Tibet (p. xvii, Preface) :
"
Gedun-tubpa, another great
reformer, was contemporary with Tsong-kha-pa, having been born in 1339, and
dying in 1474 (having thus lived 135 years). He built the monastery at Teshu
Lumbo (Tda-shi Hlum-po) in 1445, and it was in the person of this perfect Lama, as
he was called, that the system of perpetual incarnation commenced. He was himself
the incarnation of Bodhisatwa Pad ma Fani and on his death he relinquished the
attainment of Buddha-hood that he might be bom again and again for the benefit of
mankind. . . . When he died, his successor was found as an infant by the possession
of certain divine marks."
* Its "
present
"
is its earliest form, as we will try to show further on. A correct
analysis of any religion viewed but from its popular aspect, becomes impossible—
least of all Lamaism, or esoteric Buddhism as disfigured by the untutored imaginative
fervour of the populace. There is a vaster difference between the
"
Lamaism
"
of
the learned classes of the clergy and the ignorant masses of their parishioners, than
there is between the Christianity of a Bishop Berkeley and that of a modern Irish
peasant. Hitherto Orientalists have made themselves superficially acquainted but
REINCARNATIONS IN TIBET 271
the idea towards which the Tibetan mind tended from the first."
At the same time, as Max Miiller says :
"
The most important
element of the Buddhist reform has always been its social and moral
code, not its metaphysical theories. That moral code, taken by
itself, is one of the most perfect which the world has ever known ; and
it was this blessing that the introduction of Buddhism brought into
Tibet." (p. xiv, Introduction.)
The
"
blessing
"
has remained and spread all over the country,
there being no kinder, purer-minded, more simple or sin-fearing
nation than the Tibetans, missionary slanders notwithstanding.1
But yet, for all that, the popular Lamaism, when compared with
the real esoteric, or Arahat Buddhism of Tibet, offers a contrast as
great as the snow trodden along a road in the valley, to the pure and
undefiled mass which glitters on the top of a high mountain peak.2
A few of such mistaken notions about the latter, we will now
endeavour to correct as far as it is compatible to do so.
Before it can be clearly shown how the Bhootanese were forcibly
brought into subjection, and their Dharma Raja made to accept
the
"
incarnations
"
only after these had been examined into, and
recognized at Lha-ssa, we have to throw a retrospective glance at
the state of the Tibetan religion during the seven centuries which
preceded the reform. As said before, a Lama had come to Bhootan
from Kam, —that province which had always been the stronghold
and the hot-bed of the
" Shammar
" or Bhon rites,3 —between the
with the beliefs and rites of popular Buddhism in Tibet, chiefly through the distort
ing glasses of missionaries which throw out of focus every religion but their own.
The same course has been followed in respect to Sinhalese Buddhism, the mis
sionaries having, as Col. Olcott observes in the too brief Preface to his Buddhist
Catechism, for many years been taunting the Sinhalese with the
" puerility and
absurdity of their religion
" when, in point of fact, what they make fun of is not
orthodox Buddhism at all. Buddhist folklore and fairy stories are the accretions of
twenty-six centuries.
1 The reader has but to compare in Mr. Markham's Tibet the warm, impartial and
frank praises bestowed by Bogle and Turner on the Tibetan character and moral
standing and the enthusiastic eulogies of Thomas Manning to the address of the Dalai-
Lama and his people, with the three letters of the three Jesuits in the Appendix, to
enable himself to form a decisive opinion. While the former three gentlemen, im
partial narrators, having no object to distort truth, hardly find sufficient adjectives
to express their satisfaction with the Tibetans, the three
"
men of God
" pick no
better terms for the Dalai-Lamas and the Tibetans than
" their devilish God the
Father " . . .
"
vindictive devils
" . . .
"
fiends who know how to dissemble," who
are
"
cowardly, arrogant, and proud
"
. . .
" dirty and immoral," &c, &c, &c, all
in the same strain for the sake of truth and Christian charity !
* As Father Desideri has it in one of his very few correct remarks about the lamas
of Tibet, "
though many may know how to read their mysterious books, not one can
explain them "—an observation by-the-bye, which might be applied with as much
justice to the Christian as to the Tibetan clergy.— See App., Tibet, p. 306).
' The Shammar sect is not, as wrongly supposed, a kind of corrupted Buddhism,
but an offshoot of the Bhon religion—itself a degenerated remnant of the Chaldean
mysteries of old, now a religion entirely based upon necromancy, sorcery and sooth
saying. The introduction of Buddha's name in it means nothing.
272 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
ninth and tenth centuries, and had converted them into what he
called Buddhism. But in those days, the pure religion of Sakya
Muni had already commenced degenerating into that Lamaism, or
rather fetichism, against which four centuries later, Tsong-kha-pa
arose with all his might. Though three centuries had only passed
since Tibet had been converted (with the exception of a handful
of Shammars and Bhons), yet esoteric Buddhism had crept far
earlier into the country. It had begun superseding the ancient
popular rites ever since the time when the Brahmins of India, getting
again the upper hand over Asoka's Buddhism, were silently preparing
to oppose it, an opposition which culminated in their finally and
entirely driving the new faith out of the country. The brotherhood
or community of the ascetics known as the Byang-tsiub—the
"Accomplished" and the "Perfect" —existed before Buddhism
spread in Tibet, and was known, and so mentioned in the pre-
Buddhistic books of China as the fraternity of the
"
great teachers
of the snowy mountains."
Buddhism was introduced into Bod-yul in the beginning of the
seventh century by a pious Chinese Princess, who had married a
Tibetan King,1 who was converted by her from the Bhon religion
into Buddhism, and had become since then a pillar of the faith in
Tibet, as Asoka had been nine centuries earlier in India. It was he
who sent his minister —according to European Orientalists : his own
brother, the first Lama in the country —according to Tibetan
historical records —to India. This brother minister returned
"
with
the great body of truth contained in the Buddhist canonical Scrip
tures ; framed the Tibetan alphabet from the Devanagari of India,
and commenced the translation of the canon from Sanskrit —which
had previously been translated from Pali, the old language of
Magadha, —into the language of the country." (See Markam's
Tibet.)*
Under the old rule and before the reformation, the high Lamas
were often permitted to marry, so as to incarnate themselves in their
own direct descendants —a custom which Tsong-kha-pa abolished,
strictly enjoining celibacy on the Lamas. The Lama Enlightener
of Bhootan had a son whom he had brought with him. In this son's
first male child born after his death the Lama had promised the
1 A widely spread tradition tells us that after ten years of married life, with her
husband's consent, she renounced it, and in the garb of a nun—a Ghelung-ma, or
" Ani," she preached Buddhism all over the country, as, several centuries earlier, the
Princess Sanghamitta, Asoka's daughter, had preached it in India and Ceylon.
* But, what he does not say (for none of the writers, he derives his information
from, knew it) is that this Princess is the one, who is believed to have reincarnated
herself since then in a succession of female Lamas or Rim ani—precious nuns. Dur-
jiay Pan-mo of whom Bogle speaks —his Tda-shi Lama's half-sister—and the superior
of the nunnery on the Lake Yam-dog-ccho or Piate-Lake, was one of such re
incarnations,
REINCARNATIONS IN TIBET 273
people to reincarnate himself. About a year after the event —so
goes the religious legend —the son was blessed by his Bhootanese
wife with triplets, all the three boys ! Under this embarrassing
circumstance, which would have floored any other casuist, the
Asiatic metaphysical acuteness was fully exhibited. The spirit of
the deceased Lama —the people were told—incarnated himself in
all the three boys. One had his Om, the other his Han, the third —
his Hoong. Or, (Sanskrit :)
—Buddha —divine mind, Dharma—
matter or animal soul, and Sangha —the union of the former two in
our phenomenal world. It is this pure Buddhist tenet which was
degraded by the cunning Bhootanese clergy to serve the better
their ends. Thus their first Lama became a triple incarnation, three
Lamas, one of whom—they say —got his
"
body," the other, his
"heart" and the third, his—word or wisdom. This hierarchy
lasted with power undivided until the fifteenth century, when a
Lama named Dukpa Shab-tung, who had been defeated by the
Gyalukpas of Gay-don Toob-pa,1 —invaded Bhootan at the head of
his army of monks. Conquering the whole country, he proclaimed
himself their first Dharma Raja, or Lama Rim-bochay —thus starting
a third
"
Gem
"
in opposition to the two Gyalukpa
"
Gems." But
this "Gem" never rose to the eminence of a Majesty, least of all
was he ever considered a
" Gem of Learning
" or wisdom. He was
defeated very soon after his proclamation by Tibetan soldiers,
aided by Chinese trrops of the Yellow Sect, and forced to come to
terms. One of the clauses was the permission to reign spiritually
over the Red Caps in Bhootan, provided he consented to reincarnate
himself in Lha-ssa after his death, and make the law hold good for
ever. No Dharma Raja since then was ever proclaimed or recognized,
unless he was born either at Lha-ssa or on the Tda-shi Hlum-po
territory. Another clause was to the effect that the Dharma Rajas
should never permit public exhibitions of their rites of sorcery and
necromancy, and the third that a sum of money should be paid
yearly for the maintenance of a lamasery, with a school
attached where the orphans of Red-caps, and the converted Sham-
mars should be instructed in the
"
Good Doctrine
" of the Gyalukpas.
That the latter must have had some secret power over the Bhootan
ese, who are among the most inimical and irreconcilable of their
Red-capped enemies, is proved by the fact that Lama Duk-pa
Shab-tung was reborn at Lha-ssa, and that to this day, the re
incarnated Dharma Rajahs are sent and installed at Bhootan by the
Lha-ssa and Tzi-gadze authorities. The latter have no concern in
1 The builder and founder of Tda-shi Hlum-po (Teshu-lumbo) in 1445 ; called
the
"
Perfect Lama," or Panchhen —the precious jewel from the words—Panchhen
great teacher, and
"
Rim-bochay
"
priceless jewel. While the Dalai Lama is only
Gyalba Rim-bochay, or
"
gem of kingly majesty
" the Tda-shi Lama of Tzi-gadze is
Panchhen Rim-bochay or the Gem of Wisdom and Learning.
S
274 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the administration save their spiritual authority, and leave the
temporal government entirely in the hands of the Deb-Rajah and
the four Pen-lobs, called in Indian official papers Penlows, who in
their turn are under the immediate authority of the Lha-ssa officials.
From the above it will be easily understood that no
"
Dharma
Raja
" was ever considered as an incarnation of Buddha. The
expression that the latter
"
never dies
"
applies but to the two great
incarnations of equal rank —the Dalai and the Tda-shi Lamas. Both
are incarnations of Buddha, though the former is generally designated
as that of Avalokiteswara, the highest celestial Dhyan. For him
who understands the puzzling mystery by having obtained a key to
it, the Gordian knot of these successive reincarnations is easy to
untie. He knows that Avalokiteswara and Buddha are one as
Amita-pho1 (pronounced Fo) or Amita-Buddha is identical with
the former. What the mystic doctrine of the initiated
"
Phag-pa
"
or
"
saintly men
"
(adepts) teaches upon this subject, is not to be
revealed to the world at large. The little that can be given out will
be found in a paper on the
"
Holy Lha " which we hope to publish
in our next.
KOOT-HOOMI IN AUSTRALIA
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, p. 149.]
Our friend Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, is fortunate in having access
to a clairvoyante of exceptionally good lucidity, as he informs us.
Quite recently she claims to having seen in her trances the Kama-rupa
(double) of a living man, who is thus described by Mr. Terry in a
letter received by us by the last Australian mail.
" An intelligence clothed in human form, wearing an Eastern
costume, and having a dark complexion, but not so dark as the
average Hindoo, professing to be Koot-Hoomi, presented him
self to my clairvoyante, and I conversed with him. Though there
was nothing in the conversation inconsistent with the character
assumed, there were still no proofs of identity. I will experiment
further. I must have evidence as a basis of belief."
The description is vague and may suit any one of some thousands
of Kashmiris and Brahmins of various families. Koot-Hoomi is,
in fact, of a light complexion. Having asked his attention to the
foregoing, we are authorized to say on his behalf that he will not yet
affirm or deny the truth of this vision. Mr. Terry promises to make
further experiments, the issue of which he will await. We will say
however, that K. H. has before now both been seen by clairvoyants,
and
" controlled
" a medium, as we are told.
1 In Tibetan pho and pha —pronounced with a soft labial breath-like sound —
means at the same time
" man, father." So pha-yul is native land ; pho-nya, angel,
messenger of good news ; pha-me, ancestors, &c, &c.
CORRECT DEFINITIONS, INCORRECT INSINUATIONS 275
CORRECT DEFINITIONS AND INCORRECT
INSINUATIONS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 161-162.]
A wise and just interpretation of the main objects of our Society
was given by our esteemed contemporary the Mahratta of Poona
in its issue of January 22. Says the editorial :
"
When we reduce the definition of Theosophy to the simplest
form, we find that Theosophy is nothing but waking up natives
to know and to feel that they are natives. If we are right, in
defining Theosophy, and we hope we are, Theosophy appears to
approach nearer the future religion of India, than does Christianity
or any other foreign religion. Theosophy, so far as we have been
able to know, tries to create nothing new, casts no slur upon any
religion of India, and, above all, is intended to keep the fire of
nationality alive in the breast of every native. One's religion , caste
and creed are ever dear to him, and, if any attempts are desirable to
create anything like an Indian nation made of one people, pro
fessing the same caste, speaking the same language, fired by the
same love of their country, hankering after the same goal of ambi
tion, having the same likes and same dislikes, in short, it can
only be done by infusing a feeling of Universal Brotherhood.
Theosophy, unlike Christianity, tries to bring about the consum
mation, devoutly to be wished, not by destroying but by constructing
the materials at present existing in India. Colonel Olcott, Madame
Blavatsky, and their brother Theosophists, naturally, therefore,
resent any insult given to us, our ancient religions and institutions."
We heartily thank our colleagues of the Mahratta for these kind
and profoundly true words. They are right ; and that paper is thus
one of the first, though we sincerely hope it will not be the last, to
appreciate, at their correct value, our humble but unselfish and
untiring efforts toward the realization (however partial) of that
which has hitherto been always regarded by the pessimists as a vain
[but] glorious Utopia. That our labour,—a labour of love though it
be, yet one which had, since its very beginning, to be carried on by
its pioneers through thorny and rocky paths—begins to be appreci
ated by the natives, is our best reward. Evidently our Aryan
Brothers commence perceiving that our Society is not quite the
dark plotting centre full of man-traps and threatening secret motives
it is usually represented to be, by our cruelest enemies ; nor is its
work confined to, or solely bent upon, bringing the natives back to
"
degrading beliefs and superstitions in an anthropomorphic and now
ty6 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
long exploded supernaturalism
"—as some other less cruel, still
uncompromising opponents of ours would maintain, ignorantly
pronouncing both the Theosophical movement and our occult
experiments (the latter indeed but a very small part of its work)
no better than a delusion and a snare.
Then, there is another of our friendly and patriotic contemporaries,
Amrita Bazar Patrika, also noticing the Society and showing as kind
an appreciation of our work as we can ever hope for, by saying that :
"
The society has done one great good, and we feel that even here,
in Bengal. People have learnt to respect tlieir forefathers, and their
philosophy, their civilization and religion." And
"
The anniversary
ceremony of the Theosophical Society was a very successful one this
year. We wish our educated men would lay to heart the sage counsels
of Colonel Olcott, the President -Founder of the Society."
Thus, to refute the ignorant and malevolent insinuations of the
Materialists, and the no less ignorant, and perchance, still more
malevolent accusations of some Spiritualists, we have but to refer
them to some native papers in India and to the hundreds of letters
we receive from all parts of the great Peninsula, thanking us—some
enthusiastically —for the "great work of national regeneration"
we have undertaken. So strong is the animus of the Spiritualists
against us whom they ought to regard —were they wise —and treat
as their Brothers, that seldom do we receive our weekly number of
the Spiritualist without finding in it half a dozen malicious flings
at the Theosophists. Thus the Spiritualist of January 13
—a
number nearly entirely devoted to Colonel Olcott and Madame
Blavatsky, the former being taken to task for his
" Elementaries,"
and the latter for her
' '
spiritual selfishness
' ' 1—opens with an editorial
" A Blot in Buddha's Life." We have rarely come across a column
in which the subject treated, was made so transparently subservient
to the animus of the author, directed against the object of his attack.
The great Buddha, and the alleged desertion of his young wife are
used as a weapon to hit our President with.
' '
Colonel Olcott, formerly
a Spiritualist, afterwards a Theosophist, seems now to have turned a
Buddhist, for he has been establishing Buddhist schools in Ceylon,
and has written a Buddhist Catechism which is circulating exten
sively in India. ..." Hence —the fling at Buddha, —"the great
religious teacher of Eastern nations
"
from no admirer of whom—
" have we ever heard any comment upon a dark feature of Buddha's
life, assuming for the moment that he ever lived at all and that his
supposed career is not a myth." Thus, rather assume utter ignorance
1 To make his point a little clearer, and our
"
Selfishness
"
the more apparent,
the
"
inspired
"
writer ought to have used at least the word
"
Theosophical instead
of
"
Spiritual." The title of his article pays back the compliment in the same coin to
the Spiritualists themselves.
CORRECT DEFINITIONS, INCORRECT INSINUATIONS 277
*
of an historical fact1 than miss an opportunity of hitting (as he hopes
but fails to) Colonel Olcott, who from a Spiritualist and a Theosophist
has
" turned Buddhist." We pity the writer, capable of exhibiting
such a spirit of narrow-minded vindictiveness, that it crowds out
entirely, even an appearance of logical reasoning in him. Just as
though a Buddhist could not be at the same time a Theosophist and
even a Spiritualist ! The writer is cordially invited to add to the
above three appellations those of a Brahmin and a Parsi, as Colonel
Olcott, notwithstanding his Buddhist religion, works with as much
fervour for the regeneration and purification of dying Brahminism
and Zoroastrianism as he does for his co-religionists. Having laid
the foundation of a national Buddhist Fund for the spread of
education in Ceylon, he is preparing to do the same for the Hindus
and Parsis. We are a
"
Universal Brotherhood," let it be remembered.
Our Society represents no one faith or race, but every faith as every
race ; and each of those
"
heathen
" who join us,2 because of their
mystical and religious inclinations, do so with an ardent object of
understanding the hidden beauties of their ancient and respective
creeds the better ; with a hope of fathoming —by breaking through
the thick crust of bigoted dogma —the depths of true religious and
spiritual thought. And, as each of them dives into the apparently
fathomless abyss of metaphysical abstractions and Eastern sym-
bology, and clears away the accumulated rubbish of the ages, he
discovers that one and the same Truth underlies them all. In what
other religion of our day can be found the noble universal tolerance
for all other faiths such as taught in Buddhism ? What other creed
enforces such practical proofs of brotherly love and mutual toleration
better or more effectually than does the godless faith preached
by the Holy Master Sakya Muni ? Truly might we repeat with
Professor Max Miiller, that there are sentences in the inscriptions
of King Asbka
"
which might be read with advantuge by our
own missionaries, though they are now more than 2000 years
old." Such inscriptions on the rocks of Girnar, Dhouli and
Kapurdijiri as—
"
Piyadasi, the King, beloved of the gods, desires that the ascetics
of all creeds might reside in all places. All these ascetics profess
alike the command which people should exercise over themselves
and the purity of the Soul. But people have different opinions and
different inclinations." And again :
" A man ought to honour his faith, but he should never abuse the
1 We advise the writer of the editorial to turn to Prof. Max Muller's Chips, Vol. I,
p. 219, Art. " Buddhism," in which the learned Sanskritist established
"
the true
historical character
" of the Founder of Buddhism and takes to task even Sir W.
Jones for his identifying Buddha with mythical heroes.
* Many are those who join for quite different and various objects. We speak
here but of the mystics.
278 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
faith of others. . . . There are even circumstances where the religion
of others ought to be honoured. And in acting thus, a man fortifies his
own faith and assists the faith of others."
Had our President found in Christianity and Spiritualism the
same precepts practically exemplified, he might, perhaps, at this
hour, have remained as he was. Having found in both, however,
nought but dogmatism, bigotry and an unrelenting spirit of perse
cution, he turned to that which to him appears the consummation
of the ideal of brotherly love and of freedom of thought for all.
We regret then to find the spirit of such dogmatic intolerance in
a leading spiritual paper advocating a movement which professes
to be an improvement upon sectarian Christianity. It throws no
additional lustre upon the writer ; but repeating his words :
"
Rather
the reverse."
STRANGE MANIFESTATIONS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 162-163.]
To the Editor of
"
The Theosophist."
Madame,
On the last page of No. 4 of Psychic Notes, a correspondent is
made to state that he, together with a few friends,
"
out of mere
curiosity and for the fun of the thing," arranged a series of seances.
The first was unsuccessful, but the remaining ones were productive
of proofs innumerable. And yet none of the parties present was a
"
conjuror, mesmerist, medium or spiritualist
" !
Is this possible ? I always thought that the presence of a medium
at seances was a necessary condition of manifestations. Or can it be
that some one at the siances in question was, —if that were possible, —
an unconscious medium ?
Your opinion will be highly valued by
Yours obediently,
H.
The possible explanation of such manifestations can be found
only in one of the following three hypotheses :
(1) The presence of a medium—either conscious or unconscious.
(2) The presence of an adept, or his influence ; although no adept
would trouble himself with such — (what to him are)
—trifles. Or,
,—which is the most probable,—
(3) The combined result of the magnetic aura of the persons
present, forming a strong battery. This would be very likely to
produce such manifestations, whether there were a medium present
or not.
No fourth hypothesis we can think of, would answer.
WHIPPED INTO ADMISSION 279
WHIPPED INTO ADMISSION
[The Theosophist, Vol, III, No. 6 (30), March, 1882, pp. 163-164.]
When the Heliocentric system was finally and irretrievably
established, and no escape from it was found possible, the Church,
letting go the
"
Joshua stopping the sun
" miracle, passed the word
among the faithful, and the—"
We have always said so
"—policy
was swiftly adopted. When, after denying point-blank occult
phenomena, denouncing them from first to last as an out-and-out
jugglery, and calling names all those who believed in them, the Civil
and Military Gazette of Lahore found itself badly cornered by the
determined testimony of a clever, professional conjuror, who, refus
ing to make his good faith subservient to public prejudice, confessed
to Mr. Eglinton's phenomena being
"
genuine," it forthwith turned
round and declared that it is all as it should be, and that the Gazette
had never denied it. Like the
" five foolish virgins
" of the parable,
who forgot their oil and fell asleep over their lamps, it now knocks
at the door, and tries to assure the public that it has always kept
" wide awake
" over the subject, and that it has never been caught
nodding or kicking in its beatific sleep of blank denial. Of course not :
it was but collecting its thoughts. And now that the
"
Bridegroom
"
in the shape of an undeniable phenomenon is there, the outcome of
the Gazette's profound meditations may be found in the following
ungraceful admission, and the still more clumsy attempt at an
explanation.
"
Mr. Kellar, the conjuror," says the Gazette,
"
is very much surprised by
what he experienced at a spiritualist siance held recently at No. 1, Com
mercial Buildings, Calcutta. Mr. Kellar has himself been doing some very
surprising things in the way of rivalling the spiritualist feats but what
he saw on this occasion in the matter of flying, or floating, as he terms it,
beats anything that could be achieved, he says, even by Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cook. Among other things, he describes how he held on to a Mr.
Eglinton, who, rising into the air, actually lifted Mr. Kellar several inches
off his feet ! This case of the conjuror out-conjured, has occurred before
in the ancient times, as no doubt our readers may remember having read,
and when such a one finds himself beaten at his own weapons, we can
understand his feeling surprised and overcrowded. As far as we can
gather from his description of the seance in the Indian Daily News, the
position of these floating gentlemen is not so safe as it might be. For
instance, Mr. Eglinton, while high in air,
'
fell heavily on the table
'
owing
to another gentleman who held Mr. Kellar's left hand having let go. Nor,
indeed, have the neophytes quite a pleasant time of it, for Mr. Kellar says
that at one time his chair was jerked from under him with great force, a
rude practical joke which shows that the spirits have not, at any rate,
learned manners in their disembodied state. We cannot understand that,
28o THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
in the present stage of scientific progress, a man like Mr. Kellar, pre
sumably familiar with all the actual and possible developments of hanky-
panky, should be surprised at anything. He has probably seen and heard
a good deal of mesmerism and electro-biology. He no doubt can himself
practise that familiar feat of the power of will called forcing a card. He
knows that we are at present in the A.B.C. of the science of Electricity
and Magnetism, of which one of the less known developments is called
odyllic force. If the magnetic power of some men can be supposed to
actually mould living beings to their will, and act at pleasure on all their
nerves and senses, making them smell, taste, see, feel, speak, move—
actually think—at the fantasy of the operator, there should be nothing
wonderful in another development of the same galvanic power, moving
tables and chairs, carrying pianos through the air, or playing violins.
When Mr. Eglinton has discovered the means of applying the magnetic
current of many joined hands and many subdued wills to overcome the
power of gravity on his own person, before many years are out, doubtless,
this development of galvanic science will be applied to some useful pur
pose, instead of being merely an instrument of hanky-panky. At present
it is doubtless in the awkwardness of its extreme infancy, for it exposes
the operator to the risk of breaking his neck, and it is applied in such an
exhausting and inartistic way as to leave those who exercise it, utterly
prostrate, at the end of an exhibition, like an exhausted Dufaure box.
The human mind appears unable to realize that there are as good fish in
the sea of nature as ever came out of it. One would have supposed that,
at the present stage of scientific discovery, our minds would have been in
a receptive state, ready to admit any wonder sufficiently proved by
evidence —say by the same amount of evidence on which we would hang
a man. But no. A says to B
'
I have never seen a sea-serpent, have you ?
'
'
No,' says B
'
and no more has C
'
so the rest of the alphabet, all grave,
discreet, respectable letters may swear to the sea-serpent, of whose
existence they have been eye-witnesses ; but A and B
'
who would believe
them in a matter of murder
'
will not believe them regarding the existence
of a monster conger eel. We only say this by way of example. Far be it
from us to assert the existence of this eel, though Major Senior, the
Humane Society Medallist, saw, described, and drew it in the Gulf of
Aden. But incredulity, be it remembered, existed in the case of the
Kraken, till two fishermen one day cut off and brought to the Savants
eighteen feet of one of that disagreeable Calamery's tentacles. And so it
is,
and will be, in the matter of the floating and banjo-playing of Mr. Eglinton
and his brother spiritualists till some fine day one of the scientific elec
tricians takes out
a
patent for charging human beings with galvanic power,
after the same manner that
a
Dufaure box
is
charged with electricity."
This
is
what we should call
"
a
turning-coat policy
" effected with
the dexterity of
a
"
Davenport Brother." To hear the Civil and
Military Gazette reproaching other people for not keeping their
minds
"
in a receptive state, ready to admit any wonder sufficiently
proved on evidence
"
is
as amusing as to read of the converted wolf
in the golden legend preaching Christianity in the Desert. Not later
WHIPPED INTO ADMISSION 281
back than in July last, the Gazette sweepingly proclaimed every
experimenter in occult science and medium—an impostor and a
juggler, as every Theosophist and Spiritualist —a deluded fool. And
now it admits that the world is "in the A.B.C. of the Science of
Electricity and Magnetism
"
!—a fact enounced and repeated in our
journal ad nauseam usque ;—and, falls back upon
"
the less-known
developments of odyllic force
"—we spell it odylic —with a readiness
quite proportionate to its denial of that force but a few months back.
In the cases of levitation, however, we suspect the Gazette's scientifi
cally trained mind would find itself at sea altogether ; and our
benevolent contemporary would have to seek, in its great perplexity,
counsel with the Theosophical Society. The levitation phenomenon
has nought to do with the odylic freaks of the electricity known to
orthodox science, but everything with the mystery of the inter
change of correlative forces. We published the key to it four years
ago, in Isis Unveiled (Vol. I, pp. xxiii, xxiv. Art. '*
^throbacy.")
Let any man's body be charged (whether consciously or otherwise)
with the polarity of the spot which supports him (be it a natural
soil, or a floor of whatever description) and the similar polarity will
shoot his body off in the air like a child's balloon. It is no reason
because the possibility of such a polaric assimilation has not yet
come under the observation of the Royal Society, why some de
scendants of these whose forefathers have experimented for number
less ages upon the hidden powers of the human body—should not
have cognizance of it. Naturally —the power manifests itself, but
in extremely rare cases —in some nervous diseases of that kind which
baffle science in all its phases ; to produce it artificially, the person
who guides it must be partially, if not wholly, acquainted with that
which, in the Sanskrit works on Occultism, is called the
"
Nava
Niddhi " or the nine jewels of Raja-Yoga.1 The most perfect
" Samadhi," the highest of the
"
Siddhis
" of
"
Hatha-Yoga
"
can
at best guide the subject to the threshold of the world of invisible
matter, not to those of the world of spirit, where the hidden and
subtler potencies of nature lie dormant until disturbed. . . .
But as this will prove Greek to the Civil and Military Gazette, we
have to speak to it in its own language. By saying that the day
may come when human beings will be charged with galvanic power
—"after the same manner that a Dufaure box is charged with
Electricity," —it enounces a piece of news which is one but to
itself. Besides which, it sounds like prophesying the discovery of
gun-powder during the middle ages. The
"
Scientific electricians
"
will come a cycle too late. The
" charging of human beings
"
with
1 The student of Yoga philosophy must not confound these nine degrees of
Initiation, with the
" Asta Siddhis
"
or the minor eight degrees of
"
Hatha-Yoga."
In knowledge and powers, the latter stand in the same proportion to the former as
rudiments of Arithmetic to the highest degrees of Mathematics.
282 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
a power of which the Civil and Military Gazette has not even dreamt
of, was discovered ages ago, though the discoverers thereof have
never claimed recognition at the
" Patent -office."
THE RAST GOFTAR IN HOT WATER
The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), Supplement, March, 1882, p. 3.]
[Commenting on a correspondent's letter which called attention to
a violent attack on Colonel Olcott in the Parsee Journal Rast Goftar,
H. P. Blavatsky wrote :]
We feel deeply grateful to our correspondent for the expression
of his good feelings on behalf of our President. But, as we suspect,
that in the long run it is the
"
dissatisfied
"
editor of the Rast Goftar
who will find himself the best (as the most justly) abused of the two,
we express beforehand our feeling of profound and sympathetic
pity for him. Our Great Master Sakya Muni has bequeathed and
commanded us to love and commiserate all animals. And Plato, by
classifying biped man among the latter, forces us to include in their
number the wrathful editor of the Rast Goftar ; hence, to love and
commiserate him also. May his powers of speech never diminish and
good sense develop accordingly !
DOOMED !
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 6 (30), Supplement, March 1882,
PP- 3-5 ]
A letter signed by a Mr. R. Barnes Austin of Heathfield, Eng
land, addressed to the editor of The Theosophist, has been lying, for
two months, on our writing-table, waiting for publication. We do
not fancy any apology would be necessary, had we even thrown it
under our table into the waste-basket and without giving it a
second thought, as its language is as far from that of a drawing-
room, as the smells of Hungerford Market are from those of St.
James's Palace. But the points taken by the writer in defence of
the new Zanoni
"
J. K.," are too amusing not to be noticed. Thus,
after gravely assuring us, that —"
The enquiry into Occult Phi
losophy in England is far more extensive, although secretly, than is
generally known
"—that gentleman aggrieves us profoundly by
declaring point-blank that neither
" Madame Blavatsky nor Colonel
Olcott, do what they will "—will ever be admitted into such com
pany.
"
They
"
(we)
—" must remain outsiders to all true occult
societies, both in England and in India, as well as Tibet "III
DOOMED ! 283
The news would be stunning indeed, were it made less impressive
by the fancy addition to it of the last sentence. We underline it as it
would seem that our irate contributor knows all about the land of
Bod Yul of which no one else in England knows one iota, beyond,
perhaps, what he may have found in the very meagre accounts in
Mr. Markham's Tibet. — (See supra, Art. "Reincarnations in Tibet.")
So now, our fondest hopes are dashed for ever. Repelled by the
ingrate Spiritualists —for whom, we have ever entertained the
tenderest feelings ;—denounced by Western Occultists—for pre
suming to know what they do not ;—scorned by the iconoclastic
scientists —who generally break to-day the axiomatic idols they were
worshipping but yesterday ;
—reviled on general principles by the
orthodox Christians of all shades —who yet are creeping with every
hour, that drops into eternity, nearer and nearer to us and the
Spiritualists ;
—loathed by the theists —who will mirror themselves
in every passing rivulet, and on seeing their own figure exclaim—
"
'Tis
'
God
'
?
"
and straightway despise their godless Brethren ;
—
laughed at by Atheists —for our believing even in conditional immor
tality and in spirits of any shape or colour ;
—stared at by the
Agnostics and—contemptuously ignored by the Esthetics —what can
the hapless Theosophists do ! We had always believed and prayed
that in Tibet we may find, at last, eternal Rest in the fatherly lap of
our Koo-soongs, and merge into Nipang between a dish of salted tea
and a Doog-pa— (ten miles off) reaping open his own vile stomach. . . .
But lo ! the knell of our doom rings out from—Heathfield, England,
and—there is no more hope.
" There are," sternly goes on our
merciless judge —' '
as I know secret societies holding the study and
practice of the Occult as the main object of their existence, in direct
communication with the highest living adepts (with
"
J. K." ?) into
whose portals Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott would in vain
seek an entrance."
We can assure our respected correspondent (for we still hope that
he may be both respectable and respected, albeit defending such a
bad case) that neither the one nor the other of the above-named
personages has the slightest desire whatever to knock at any such
"
portal
"
; least of all at one they are not invited to. But why
should he not be satisfied with becoming the mouth-piece of only
such societies, in England, and allow us to take our chances with
those of India, and especially Tibet. Why should he hunt us across
the Himalayas ? We suspect we will be able to take care of ourselves
among our Hindu and Tibetan Brothers. And pray, why such a
cruel edict ? Because —as we are informed by Mr. Barnes Austin —
we are hated by
"
Spiritualists and Occultists alike." Now that is
indeed, inexpressibly sad ! We are not given the plain and direct
reasons why, as our correspondent is too much of a gentleman to
284 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
make use of abusive and insulting epithets ; but we are allowed a
suspicion of the terrible truth.
"It is well known," he tells us,
" there is no society of true
Occultists which would admit within its fold these two pre
tenders."
The two
"
pretenders
"
(to what ?) are, of course, Col. Olcott and
Madame Blavatsky, who are yet expected to print all this in their
journal conducted, according to Mr. Barnes Austin's further kind
and wittily expressed opinion —on the principle of
"
Yankee Re
volver journalism." Really our estimable correspondent must have
a higher idea of our gentle and obliging kindness, than we can ever
entertain of his, especially when he tries to add insult to injury by
notifying us that
" the so-called Theosophical Society whose obscure
existence is barely acknowledged among us
"
(the Occultists ?) draws
upon itself
"
contempt
"
by such articles, as that in our November
number. The article referred to is on
"
Western Adept and Eastern
Theosophists," in which no worse insult is offered to the great Occult
I AM than that he is therein called by his own name ; and that even
was done by us—se defendendo. But—Veritas odium parit. Once
more, we recognize the wisdom of the old saying.
But we expect Mr. Barnes Austin, to recognize in his turn that he
was not mistaken in his notions of our forgiving disposition. Now,
that he sees that we have picked out the gems from his letter to us,
and publish them, proving to him thereby that no amount of
gratuitous impertinence can make us forget our duty to one, who
seems to be on such intimate terms with our
"
Tibetan adepts
"—
we hope he will prove magnanimous, and abstain from making us
lose our character entirely in their eyes ?
And why should we not publish the aforesaid
"
gems," and even
have them followed au besoin by those of the
"
Adept
" himself,—
gems far more precious and more refined. Only those who feel they
have merited the castigation will turn round, snarling and attempting
to bite like a cur on whose tail one has inadvertently stepped. Only
those who have sores, fear the accidental touch. We are not so
troubled. By this time our innocent
"
skeletons
"—the few at least
we may have had, and, which like other people we preferred keeping
in our
"
family closets,"—have all been so completely dragged out
before the public gaze, —thanks to the slanders of world-famous
mediums and the meek Christian missionary, the vindictive bigot
and the sensation-hungry press —that clever would be that enemy
who could frighten us by any new threat I
But Mr. Barnes Austin does not threaten, he but kindly warns.
His strongest point against us—at least the one placed foremost —
is to be found, as we understand, in his claim on behalf of the
"
Adept
"
to the intimate friendship of some occultists whose
DOOMED ! 285
" social standing
" is
"
quite equal, if not superior
" to any to which
(we two)
"
can ever lay claim." We fail to understand the possible
relations that titles and aristocracy can have to great or small occult
knowledge. The greatest world-renowned philosophers and sages
were no Earls or Princes, but often men who had sprung from the
lowest grades of society,—or, as our correspondent himself puts it—
"
Jesus was a carpenter, Ammonius Saccas a porter of sacks,
Boehme a shoemaker, and Spinoza a spectacles-grinder." True,
Buddha was the son of a king, but he became the World-Saviour and
the highest Initiate only after having, for forty years, begged his
daily bread. Our opinion of
"
J. K." was never founded upon the
(to us) immaterial fact whether he be the direct descendant of King
Louis the Saint, or of Shylock, or even that of the impenitent robber
crucified on the left hand of Jesus. His fury at being called, —as he
imagines —a
"
Jew
"
is entirely gratuitous, for we never have called
him one. We said he was a
" Pharisee
" and that is quite a different
thing. Let him learn—the omniscient initiate, —that the first, the
best, the dearest as the most revered of the friends of our youth,
one with whom we corresponded to the day of his death, and whose
portrait we treasure as a relic, the learned Rabbi, in short, with
whom we studied the Kabala —was a Jew. Let him enquire, and he
will find that we have a number of Jews in our Society, both in
America, Europe and here ; and that many of our valued and most
intelligent friends are Jews. Hence, we have never found fault with,
least of all reproached, him with being a Jew, but only a Pharisee,
of which class there are as many among the Christians as among
his own race. Nor do we doubt, in the least, his being an
"
Oc
cultist
"—as questioning the bravery and competency of a soldier,
does not mean denial of the fact that he belongs to the army. And,
we are ready to admit that theoretically he may have obtained a
pretty fair (not thorough)
"
mastery of the occult system," and is a
very advanced Kabalist, in possession of genuine and sterling learn
ing in the Jewish Kabalistic and Western alchemical lore. All this
we are prepared to admit, as it is clearly shown in much of what is
said in his
"
Adeptship of Jesus Christ," however strongly it smacks
of what others have said before him. Thickly interlarded with para
graphs utterly irrelevant to the main question ; the whole breathing
a spirit of vindictive narrow-mindedness—a kind of Kabalistic
odium theologicum ;—peppered throughout with vulgar epithets to
the address of all those who cross his path, and looking like patches
of mud upon a white garment, yet, the essay is not devoid of a
certain merit. But it is this strange mixture of lofty ideas with a
most uncharitable and ungentlemanly abuse of language whenever
attacking those he hates —especially the Theosophists, that gives
us the right to deny him point-blank the title of an adept, and to
286 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
maintain that a man of that sort cannot have been initiated into the
true mysteries. A real adept will either conceal for ever his adept-
ship from the world's gaze, or, if forced to live among the common
herd, will prove far above it, by his moral grandeur, the loftiness of
his cultivated mind, his divine charity and his all forgiveness of
injury. He will correct the faults of those who strive—as he himself
has once striven—after initiation, with polite kindness, not by
using Billingsgate language. A true adept is above any petty feeling
of personal resentment —least of all of ridiculous vanity. He cares
not whether he is physically handsome or plain, but ever shows the
moral beauty of his spotless nature in every act of his life. Finally
we say, it is not enough to be a learned Kabalist, a successful mes-
merizer, a great alchemist or even a commentator upon Occult
Science, —what one would call a
" theoretical
" occultist, —to
deserve the name of an Adept in the real sense of that word.1 Though
we have never claimed ourselves Adeptship or a
"
very high degree
of Initiation," yet we claim to know something of real Adepts and
Initiates, and are pretty certain of what they look like,—the whole
host of English Occultists notwithstanding. And we maintain that,
at the present moment, and ever since the spring of 1881, there is
no more in the membership of the Theosophical Societies, than
among the whole conclave of "secret societies" of English and
other Occultists—Mr. Barnes Austin speaks about—one single
Adept, let alone "an advanced Initiate into the highest degrees."
The true mysteries of the genuine Aryan and Chaldean lore, are
receding with every day more from the Western candidates. There
are yet in Europe and America some advanced students, some
neophytes of the third and perchance of the second Section, and a
few
"
natural-born seers." But like a gallant ship sinking under the
weight of barnacles attached to it, even they lose daily ground,
owing to the indiscretions of hundreds of self-deluded parasites, who
would have people believe each of them brings to humanity a new
Revelation from heaven ! It is the adherents of the
"
adepts
" of
this latter class, who believe in and unwisely defend them, but who,
deluding themselves, but delude others, who thus create all the
mischief. And these, we say, are but an impediment to the progress
of the Science. They only prevent the few true adepts, that remain, to
1 The title of adept, messenger and Messiah has become a cheap commodity in our
days—at least in London, —we see. And, the claims even of a
"
J. K." become less
extraordinary, when one finds in respectable Spiritual newspapers such letters as
signed by Mr. Charles W. Hillyear. In this letter no less than twelve messengers,
angels or Messiahs, are mentioned by the writer —the twelfth of whom is the late
Mr. Kenealy, the author of Enoch and the Apocalypse I He is spoken of as
"
divine
Messenger," and the sentence —"
such Masters as Fo, (Buddha) Jesus, and Dr.
Kenealy
"
(who defended the Tichborne case)
—is applied directly to that well-
known, modern gentleman ! I After this we better close for ever our columns to
the term—"
Adept."
DOOMED ! 287
come out and publicly assert the survival of the ancient knowledge and —
their own existence.
We will try to prove what we say some day. Meanwhile, having
on hand an article—"
The
'
Adept
'
Revealed
"—composed of choice
paragraphs selected from a paper by J. K., headed
"
Under which
'
Adept
'
Theosophist ?
" and sent to us by the above-named
"
Initiate
" for publication, we proposed, (had the Council of the
Theosophical Society under whose auspices this Journal is issued,
permitted
it)
to publish the immortal production in the Supplement
of our next issue —there being no room in this one. Having devoted
our labour and time to fathoming all kind of occult and psychological
problems, we intended to present our readers with
a
sketch (drawn
by his own hand) of
a
modern
"
Adept
"
;
to point out to the uniniti
ated, the combination of qualities that seem to be required in our
age, to make up the
"
highest adept
"
in Europe
;
and, to acquaint
the Hindu reader, whose unsophisticated experience has hitherto
permitted him to get aquainted but with the characteristics of his
own unkempt and unwashed
"
Mela-Yogin," also with those of
a
European Illuminated who hungers to be regarded as
a
" Zanoni,"
linked with
"
Christ and Spinoza." The extracts would have
shown better than any criticism, to what
a
degree of forbearance,
soul-grandeur and purity
of
heart,
a
modern
"
adept
"
can reach.
Nevertheless, from the first of the
" Answers to Correspondents
"
which follow,
it
will be shown that
if
Mr. Barnes Austin's
"
client
"
whose
"
soul
"
is
so large that he
"
carried the Himalayas always
about him
"—has ever followed in the footsteps of any
"
adept at
all,
it
must be in those of the alchemist Eugenius Philalethes (Thomas
Vaughan). Let him who doubts our statement turn to his Magia
Adamica and read his low abuse of his contemporary, Dr. Henry
More, the Platonic philosopher, than whom no Englishman ever left
a
nobler name. Not only we did not hesitate to publish the personal
vilifications to our address by
"
J.
K.",
if
the Council of the Society
had permitted it, but we felt proud to think that we shared the fate
of Henry More, one of the saintliest characters of his period.
Owing to all the above considerations, we most emphatically
deny the sacred title of "adept
"
to one,
" who," while unblushingly
declaring himself an
" Initiate," having reached the
"
Christ-state,"
acts at the same time like a vulgar bully. As our magazine
is
not
intended for the constant parading of our genealogical trees and the
list of our family connections, we will, with Mr. Barnes Austin's
permission, refrain from again discussing either social standing, or
high or low birth in connection with adeptship or
"
J.
K." Our
answer to all the exceptions taken to what we said of him and others
in our November article
is
found by whomseover
is
interested in the
quarrel, in our
"
Answers to Correspondents." There being no room
288 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
for ventilating discussions about the worth of our Society, its
members and its founders—which never interest any one but the
parties concerned —we generally settle all such affairs in these extra
pages which we added at our own expense and for the accommodation
of the various business of our Society. Hence, our correspondent's
fling that, as
"
J. K." does not intrude his private affairs upon us
(the English Occultists) why does the editor of The Theosophist
presume to drag them out —is as gratuitous as it is vague. The above-
named editor would never have presumed to give one moment's
thought to other people's
"
private affairs
"
had she not to defend
herself and her Society from weekly attacks and public insults
offered them ; attacks and insults as unprovoked as they were
brutal, and which lasted for about seven months in both the London
Spiritualist and the Medium and Day-break. And if we occupied
several columns, to our regret, in the uncovering of the enemy so
securely hiding himself, as he thought, behind his J. and his K., it
was only to show him in his true character and point out the evident
motives for the slurs upon people, many of whom are far higher,
intellectually as well as morally, than he ever will be himself. As to
the space for that exposure, it found room in our own Supplement —
not in the columns which belong to our subscribers.
To conclude : If, as we suppose, —notwithstanding the very rude
tone of his letter, our stern judge who demeans us but to raise
"
J. K."
the higher—is a gentleman, then we can assure him, his esteem for
that individual will be put sorely to the test when he reads the
reasons why his paper was rejected by the Council. Let him but read
those few sentences copied verbatim from a paper the writer had
requested us to publish in full (as though we had no more regard
for our members and readers than to print more than we can help
of such indecencies
!).
And
if,
after reading it, Mr. Barnes Austin
still justifies
"
J.
K." then we would have to reconsider our long
held theory that an English gentleman
is
at heart chivalrous to a
fault.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS1
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No.
6
(30), Supplement, March, 1882, p. 6.]
"
J.
K."—Your letter headed
"
Under which
'
adept
'
Theoso
phist
?
" will not be published, for the following reasons
:
(1)
Personal abuse to the address of the editor, however amusing
to the latter, does not interest the general reader.
(2)
Our journal
is
not concerned with, and carefully avoids every
thing of
a
political character. Therefore, such vilifications as con-
1
[There
is
a
reference to this article on p. 273 of The Matahma Letters to A. P.
Sinnett. —Ed.].
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 289
tained in the said article, namely, a low and vulgar abuse of Russia,
its
"
barbarian moujik
" and the
"
worthy countrywoman of Igna-
tieff
" ; and especially the mention of the
"
red cock
"
crowing over
"the Jew's house
"—cannot find room in its columns. But such
matter would be received, most likely, with cheerful welcome in
those of a third-class Jewish, Russophobic organ in Germany.
(3) For that same reason we must decline to allow the author
of
"
The Adeptship of Jesus Christ," to soothe his ruffled feelings
by expatiating upon "the political object" of the Theosophical
Society ;
"
which is to place the English under the Hindoos, and to
bring the Hindoos under the Russian rule"(! I
I),
as the absurd accusa
tion comes two years too late and would not interest even our Anglo-
Indian readers.
(4)
A
lady-medium respected and beloved by all who know her,
is
called in
it
our "spy," and "general informant" which
is
a
gratuitous calumny and
a
glaring untruth.
(5)
British and American laws having provided against the viola
tion of the postal enactments intended to secure the purity of the
mails, the Journal would risk to pay the penalty for sending indecent
matter by book-post. The coarse paragraph in the said article,
which relates to the proposed visit of the
"
handsome widow's son
"
to the Indian
"
theosophical di vecot
" and the supposed
"
flutter
"
" in it," among the fair and dark sisters
" whom the writer proposes
to initiate
"
into the higher mysteries, etc., etc., comes directly
under that law.
(6) The Theosophist devoted to Oriental Philosophy, Art, Litera
ture, Occultism, Mesmerism, Spiritualism and other sciences, has
not pledged itself to reproduce burlesque parodies, or circus-clown
poetry. Therefore, such grotesque bits of prose and poetry as
:
" Stay your all answering horse laugh, ye natives and Anglo-
Indians, remember he laughs best who laughs last
!
"—or
" Then tremble, pretenders, in the midst
of
your glee,
For you have not seen the last
of
J.
W. nor tne."1
—are not fit to appear in
a
serious article.
(7) The Theosophist publishes only articles written and sent by
gentlemen.
MR. JOSEPH WALLACE
—No names —but one—having been mentioned in the article
"
Western
'
Adept
'
and Eastern Theosophists
"
;
and positively
not one word of an insulting character directly relating to the
"
hierophant
" or the
"
Lady Magnetist
"
having found room in it,
or the writer's thought —unless, indeed, to question the fitness of
blending the study of divine mysteries, with
a
whisky-distilling
1
J.
W.
is
Mr. Wallace, whom we have the honour to answer further on.
T
2go THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
apparatus, and advertisements of a commercial character, becomes
synonymous with defaming characters —we do not know that we
ought to apologize to Mr. Wallace at all. Least of all to the extent
of inflicting upon our subscribers and members nearly 3000 words or
four columns of prose of an unexceptionably unrefined character,
peppered, in addition to it, with glaring misconceptions and most
ridiculously incorrect statements. That sentence alone in his letter
which openly taxes us with being :
" Glad indeed to exchange the commercial standing of your (our)
Journal which does not even inculate teetotalism for that of my still "
—would be sufficient to call forth protests and indignant answers
from a number of our members. Our correspondent, though a
" hiero-
phant
"
himself—one who develops seership and initiates others
into the mysteries of spiritual clairvoyance —has failed, we see, to
discover that the Founders of the Theosophical Society are strict
and uncompromising teetotalers ; and that, with the exception of
a few Englishmen, all of its members are pledged to total abstinence
from anything like wine or even beer, let alone liquor ; and that they
are most of them, strict vegetarians. We regret to find him commit
ting such a serious blunder.
Another just as amusing a mistake, considering it comes to us
from that part of London which professes itself, and pretends to
be regarded as the very hot -bed of clairvoyance, mysticism, intuition,
perception and
" Soul
" and
"
Christ -States
"—whatever the latter
may mean —and which, nevertheless, shows clearly its professors
failing to comprehend correctly the meaning of even that which any
profane mortal would see, is discovered in the following passage of
our correspondent's letter :
. . .
" '
J. K.' whom you charge in the Spiritualist —under the
idea that he belonged to your own secret Fraternity (? !)
—with being
a traitor to his Theosophical Oath in writing so openly that which
you till then considered was sacred and known only to the Theosophic
sworn members (!!!) he was not accused then of knowing little
on occult matters, but rather as knowing too much. There was
evidence then of
'
Homeric laughter
'
; but now he is credited
by you as not knowing the A. b. c. of the subject," etc. etc.
Truly—acu rem tetigistil Every word in the above is a miscon
ceived and disfigured notion. We never, for one moment, —since
the appearance of
"
J. K's " first article, "
An Adept on the Occult
Brothers
" in the Spiritualist (June 24) and directed against our
Society,—mistook him for a member of our
" secret Fraternity
" ;
nor could we so mistake him, as the same mail that brought that
article brought us letters from several Theosophists informing us
what and who he was —that very "pretentious writer." Let any
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 291
man with a sufficiently clear head, on a forenoon, turning to our only
letter in the Spiritualist in 1881, (namely, that of August 12), read
the lines, which have now led Mr. Wallace into such a funny blunder,
and then judge whether there is one word in it which could lead to
such a supposition. Not only has
"
J. K." ever failed to show to
us any sign of
"
knowing too much
" on Occult matters (with which
we are concerned) but he has constantly proved to the whole of our
Society that he knew nothing whatever of either its objects and aims,
its organization or its studies. And it is precisely such an assurance
on our part, that made us reply in answer to his ignorant assertion
that
"
the very first psychical and physical principles of true
Theosophy and Occult science are quite unknown to and
unpractised by its members
"
the following :
" How does he know ? Did the Theosophists take him into
their confidence ? And if he knows something of the British
Theosophical Society (does this imply that he belongs to their
Society ?) what can he know of those in India ? If he belongs to
any of them, then does he play false to the whole body and is a
traitor. And if he does not, what has he to say of its practitioners
since they (the Branch Societies) are secret bodies ?
"
And it would be sufficient, we should say, to glance at the reasons
given by us further on, in the same article, for our rejecting him
absolutely as an initiated
"
adept," to prevent any one, let alone a
"
Hierophant," from being led into such an absurd mistake. As to
there being "no evidence then of Homeric laughter" at J. K.'s
letters, Mr. Wallace errs very sorely again. From the first to the
last, those articles provoked the greatest merriment among the Anglos
Indians. No one could read them —especially the one entitled
" Information for Theosophists, from an adept
"
in which he so
naively boasts of his
"
high calibre
" as a
"
literary
" man and mixes
up in such an absurdly ridiculous way the Arya Samaj and the
Theosophical Society (another proof of his clairvoyant powers) —
without being seized with a fit of inextinguishable laughter. So
much so, indeed, that during
"
the
'
/. K.' periodin the Spiritualist,"
(as somebody called
it)
a
gentleman of Simla, of high official standing,
and of as high and universally recognised ability, offered to bet
that those letters of
"
J.
K.'s
" would turn out some day
a
mere
" hoax,"
a
purposely put-up humoristic joke, to find out whether
any Theosophist would be fool enough to accept them seriously
;
" for,"—he added
"
it
is
absolutely incredible that any man in his
right senses should so boast, or write about himself such absurdly
panegyrical and bombastic eulogies."
The third mistake —and
a
very serious one —in Mr. Wallace's
letter,
is
what he pleases to view as
"
an unfounded and unwarranted
292 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
insinuation." The
" insinuation
" is alleged to be contained in the
following sentence in our article
"
Western Adept and Eastern
Theosophists
"
(Nov. No. The Theosophist) —" A gifted lady magnet-
ist's work —the legitimate wife, we are told, of his (J. K.'s) Hierophant-
Initiator, though we never heard yet of a practising Hierophant-Magician
who was married, etc." This is all that we have
"
dared to
pen." Were we wrongly informed, or is it a crime to mention legiti
mate wives ? Who, but a man capable of discovering filth where there
is positively none, would ever imagine that anything but that which
was clearly stated, was meant ? To hint at any other implication
or the least intention on our part to throw doubt on the legality of
the said marriage, is to utter an outrageous lie. We doubted, and
now doubt, and will doubt forever, and not only doubt, but positively
deny, that one married and the father of a family, can ever be a
practical adept, least of all a
"
Hierophant," all the Flammels and
Boehmes and Co., notwithstanding. Mr. Wallace believes in,
practises to a certain point, and teaches Western occultism. We
believe in, practise also to a certain point, and learn, never having
pretended to
" teach
"
Eastern Occultism. Our paths diverge widely
and we need not be elbowing each other on our way to the Absolute.
Let Western Adepts and Hierophants leave us strictly alone, and
not pretend to speak of, and insult what they do not know, and we
will never pronounce their names whether orally or in print.
Therefore, we refuse room to Mr. Wallace's letter likewise.
Although far more decent than that of his pupil, it is yet sufficiently
rude to authorize us to refuse it space. The said gentleman is at
liberty to publish his denunciations in a pamphlet form or otherwise
and give them as wide a circulation as he thinks proper ; or, better
still, he might incorporate it within the forthcoming grand work by
the modern
"
Adept
"
to be called A History of Mystic Philosophy,
a book—as he modestly tells us, —which is sure
"
to stand the criti
cism of ages." As the author thereof, is sure to use in it the same
refined phraseology as we find in his language whenever directed
against "Spiritual Snobbery," and the "talking Theosophi6ts,"
Mr. Wallace's article will find itself in good company. The more so, as
we are threateningly promised in it by
"
J. K." a chapter
"
specially
provided
"
for our
"
non-total oblivion," and that of our
" unwashed
Isis in rags."
We part with Mr. Wallace, without the slightest ill-feeling on our
part as he has evidently misconceived the situation from first to
last. We only regret to find a gentleman apparently so full of sterling
learning and knowledge so evidently destitute of good education and
manners, as to have actually written the letter under review.
To "
Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt (Mrs. Wallace)."— We beg to
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
convey our respectful regards to this lady and to acknowledge
receipt of a voluminous paper from her pen, purporting to be a reply
to
"
those sentences, which refer to her, contained in the article
entitled
'
Western Adept and Eastern Theosophists.'
"
We have
read the reply with pleasure and found it as dignified, lady-like,
good-natured and witty, as the three above noticed, are undignified,
and vindictive ; and in one case—indecent and silly. Therefore,
and notwithstanding the rather misconceived attitude adopted by
Mrs. Wallace, considering we have not named her in our article, and
referred but to what was —in our mind and to the majority of our
readers —a pure abstraction —we are ready, now that we do know
her, to offer her our sincere apology and to express regret at having
included in it
" those sentences which refer to her
"
since they seem
to have given her offence though none at all was meant to be offered
by the writer, to either Miss Chandos Leigh Hunt, or Mrs. Wallace.
We regret the more to find her unacquainted with the Mahayana
philosophy. For, were she but as familiar with it as she seems to be
with Epictetus —" after whom she has named her boy
"—and had
she made of the former as well as of the latter her "text-book,"
owing to the lucid exposition in that philosophy, of the close connec
tion which exists between every cause and effect, she might appre
hend our meaning at once. As such is not the case though— (unless
indeed the omniscient "J. K." rushes into explaining and teaching
the public this philosophy as well as he does esoteric Buddhism)
—we will add a few words more just to explain to Mrs. Wallace why
we do not give room to her reply.
Maintaining still, as we do, our undeniable right to have published
our November article as an elucidation of the unprovoked and
incessant attacks of her husband's pupil upon us—though the said
article may have contained unnecessary personalities provoked by
indignation —we would yet be glad, in atonement for the latter, to
publish her paper in extenso. It was already in the hands of the
printer, when in addition to her husband's and his
" Epopt's "
letters we received four more papers as lengthy and as explicit as
her own. It would appear as if the tornado of indignation raised
by our article was happily limited to—with one solitary exception,
namely, Mr. Barnes Austin —and raged entirely within the family
circle of the persons alluded to in our article. As if in answer to the
threats and denunciations contained in Mr. Wallace's and his pupil's
letters, both of whom expatiate in them upon the
" various scanda
lous stories," —slanders and malicious inventions set afloat about
us by numerous known and unknown enemies, (whose utterances
our correspondents show themselves but too ready to accept as gospel
truths) we have before us no less than four lengthy papers from London
approving our article, and full of quite the reverse of what one might
294 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
be inclined to view as complimentary to either the
"
Hierophant,"
or the
"
Adept." Apparently there is a latet anguis in herba for every
hapless occultist, not for the Theosophists alone. A far less charitable
view is taken of, and worse slanders repeated in them about the
above-named persons than were ever invented for the personal and
special annihilation of our humble self. Hence, in justice to ourselves,
were we to publish Mr. and Mrs. Wallace's articles, we would have
to publish side by side those of their detractors ; and this is what we
would never do. Whatever the indecent means other people may
resort to, we, at least, will never use such base weapons —not even
against our enemies. We may become guilty—we are not perfect —
of a desire to wound them in their vanity, never in their honour ;
and, while freely using ridicule as our weapon to silence them,
whenever they seek to destroy us with their insults and denunciations,
we would blush to repeat even to a friend—let alone to threaten to
publish them in a book or a journal —that which, so long as it is not
positively proved to be the truth and nothing but the truth, we regard
as a shameful and scandalous gossip, the venomous spittle of the
"
snake hidden in the grass. ..."
Thus reiterating our expressions of regret personally to Miss
Chandos Leigh Hunt (Mrs. Wallace) of whom we have never heard
the slightest evil report from any trustworthy quarters, but the
reverse from our two friends, we close the subject altogether. We
mean no more to allow our columns to be disgraced with such
polemics. Our esteemed contemporary, the Psychological Review,
recently protested against our prolonging the
"
castigation," as
"
there is more serious work to be done." We concur ; and were
but the insignificant individuals
"
J. K." and Madame Blavatsky
aloneconcerned.it would be an impertinence to keep them at the front.
But as the defence of our Society, which represents —however im
perfectly —India or, rather the Orient, was and is a
"
serious work
"
;
and as silence is often mistaken for weakness —we had to find room
for the above
" Answers to our Correspondents." They need trouble
themselves no more : we have settled our accounts.
THE PRESENT GREAT NEED OF A METAPHYSICO-
SPIRITUAL VOCABULARY
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 167-168.]
In Light (of February 11)
"
C. C. M.", in the article
" Communi
cating Spirits," says the following :
It will thus be seen (1) that only the first, or earth-bound class, and
the third, —(the third according to Boehm. —Ed.)
—the perfect spirits,
have power voluntarily to communicate with us and to interfere in human
NEED OF A METAPHYSICO-SPIRITUAL VOCABULARY 295
affairs, and this by reason of the body (though of very different sort)
which serves as the medium of communication ; and (2) that the
"
earth-
bound
" condition supposes the continuance of the
"
astral
"
body. This,
according to occultist teaching, is in process of disintegration —the com
munication becoming more and more incoherent as that process advances.
According to the recent teaching in The Theosophist, the Linga-Sarira is
dissolved with the external body at the death of the latter. This is quite
opposed to what we are told by Eliphas Levi and many other authorities,
and does not appear probable.
"
C. C. M." errs very seriously : (a) in accepting Boehme as an
authority ;
(b)
in taking no exception to his crude classification of
souls —which makes him place the "perfected spirit
"
in the
" third
class
"
;
(c)
in rendering the term
"
heavenly Essentiality
"
by
" divine embodiment
"
;
(d) by terming the doctrine about the
Linga-Sarira in The Theosophist
" a recent teaching
"
and showing
it
"
quite opposed to what we are told by Eliphas LeVi and many
other authorities," whereas, most of those
"
authorities
" sin only
in adopting a terminology, which, while sufficient for their
generalisations,
is
utterly deficient as soon as they touch upon details
;
hence, sorely puzzling to the uninitiated reader.
With the permission of our friend
" C. C. M.," we will try to demon
strate wherein lie hidden his several mistakes.
We will not stop to prove Boehme the reverse of an authority
:
this
is
a
question of personal opinion entirely depending upon the
degree of faith that may be reposed in him by his admirers. But by
noticing the
(b)
and
(c)
errors we will show in
a
few words how utterly
unmetaphysical, hence illogical, from the occultist's standpoint,
is
Boehme's classification and definition of the "perfected spirit."
Had the Gorlitz seer said "soul" instead, there would be more
probability of making his various teachings agree than there seems
to be now. The term "spirit
"
coupled with the idea of
"
embodi
ment
" becomes as incorrect, and as great
a
fallacy as to represent
the non-conditioned, or the Infinite
" All "
(the one Reality) by
a
limited and conditioned portion of
a
finite object, one of the evanes
cent mirages ever flickering and disappearing in our phenomenal
world. The
"
perfected
" or rather
"
Perfect Spirit
"—since the
Absolute, or limitless Unity and perfection can neither be divided,
nor can
it
be invested with attributes and degrees involving gradual
perfectibility —can become the Unity or Spirit but after having lost
every form and shape — (hence body), which would necessarily make
of
it
a
Duality. It can have no relation to, or concern with, any
object of consciousness in our illusionary world, as this alone would
involve dualism, which must exist wherever there
is
any relation
at all. Hence —
if
under the name of
"
Perfected Spirit
"—Absolute
consciousness
is
meant, then the latter, incapable of either internal
296 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
or external cognition, must necessarily be viewed as incapable also
of a voluntary communication with us mortals. And, since we under
take to divide
" souls
" or
"
Spiritual entities
" into classes and
degrees, how can we presume, whatever be our authority, to limit
those so flippantly but to three classes ? Surely, the careful study
of the doctrine of the seven principles of living mortal man, as taught
by the Arahat esotericism, each of which principles is subdivided
in its turn into seven more, would serve at least one useful purpose,
namely, to bring something like order into this infinite chaos and
confusion of terms and things. As a proof of this, we now find our
esteemed friend" C. C. M." confusing the Sanskrit term
"
Linga-
Sarira
" with the Mayavi or Kama-Rupa —the
"
astral soul," and
calling the doctrine of its dissolution with the body—a "recent
teaching." If he but turns to the back volumes of The Theosophist
he will find in the November issue of 1879, (Art.
"
Yoga Vidya ")
a correct definition of the term in that sentence which says (p. 44,
col. 2) that : the Linga-Sarira ... is the subtile, ethereal elements
of the Ego of an organism (whether human or animal or vegetable)
. . . inseparably united to . . . the latter and never leaving it
"
but at death." And if so, how could the
"
astral body
" of man
if we call it Linga-Sarira, leave him during his lifetime and appear
as his double, as we know, is repeatedly the case with mediums and
other peculiarly endowed persons ? The answer is simple : that
which appears, or the "double," is called Mayavi-Rupa (illusionary
form) when acting blindly ; and—Kama-Rupa,
"
will
" or
"
desire-
form
"
when compelled into an objective shape by the conscious will
and desire of its possessor. The Jivatma (vital principle) and Linga-
Sarira (Sex body) 1
are inner principles ; while the Mayavi-Rupa is
the outside
"
soul
" so to say : one which envelops the physical
body, like in a filmy ethereal casing. It is a perfect counterpart of
the man and even of the clothing which he happens to wear.2 And
this principle is liable to become condensed into opacity, compelled
to it, either by the law of inter-magnetic action, or by the
potentiality of Yoga-ballu or "adept-power."
Thus, the
"
Linga-Sarira
" is
" dissolved with the external body
at the death of the latter." It dissolves slowly and gradually, its
adhesion to the body becoming weaker, as the particles disintegrate.
During the process of decay, it may, on sultry nights, be sometimes
seen over the grave. Owing to the dry and electric atmosphere it
manifests itself and stands as a bluish flame, often as a luminous
1 In this esoteric sense linga means neither
"
phallus
" as translated by some,
nor " knowledge," as done by others ; but rather
"
male
" or
"
sex." Badrayana,
calls it in his Dariana (system of philosophy) kritsita Sarira, —the
"
contemptible
body," as it is but the turba-stirring principle within man resulting in animal
emanations.
' See in this connection The Sou! of Tilings by Prof. Denton.
MASONS AND JESUITS 297
pillar, of
"
odyle," bearing a more or less vague resemblance to the
outward form of the body laid under the sod. Popular superstition,
ignorant of the nature of these post-mortem gaseous emanations,
mistakes them for the presence of the
"
suffering
" soul, the personal
spirit of the deceased, hovering over his body's tomb. Yet, when
the work of destruction has been completed, and nature has broken
entirely the cohesion of corporeal particles, the Linga-Sarira is
dispersed with the body of which it was but an emanation.
It is high time then, that we should think of making a
"
meta-
physico-spiritual vocabulary." If we adopt Eastern beliefs and
accept their system of thought under whatever name —we must take
care that they be not disfigured through our carelessness and mis
understanding of the real meaning of the terms. The sooner we do
it, the better for the Spiritualists and ourselves ; lest, as we see, it
should lead our best friends,—those who travel along a parallel, if
not quite identical, path with us, and are pursuing the same and one
knowledge, —to a severe conflict for shadows. A battle, based upon
a misconception of words elevated to the dignity of dogmas and an
ignorance of synonyms for what is but one and the same thing
would be something to be extremely regretted. The more so as
many of our enemies show themselves but too eager to convert such
simple misconceptions of terms into irreconcilable heresies as to
facts and axioms.
MASONS AND JESUITS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 174-175.]
Our Masonic readers, of whom very respectable numbers are
scattered throughout India, ought to be on the look-out for recent
publications against their Fraternity. We find quite an interesting
little libel upon their organization quietly running through the
columns of the Roman Catholic Tablet in its November issue of 1881.
The two Nestors of Patriotism, Giuseppe Mazzini and Garibaldi,
come in for a very fair share of venomous abuse in the said Epopee
headed —" Rome as a Capital of Italy
"
; but fortunately they have
to largely share their honours in the ecclesiastical vilification with
the
"
Royal Sardinian usurpers."
A few extracts from the short slander-peppered chapters, published
in the columns of the Tablet and offered to us as an historical record,
may prove of interest to some of our Hindu readers. They are well
calculated to enhance the importance of that respectable and quiet,
yet withal mysterious-looking, building to be met with in almost
every town of India, the object of superstitious awe to the un
sophisticated coolie, who designates it a
"
Jadukhana
"
(Sorcery
298 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
house), while the guide-book introduces it to the traveller as a
Masonic Lodge. How little does the well-meaning native, who,
dying for the honour of admission into the craft, is ready to lay
out any amount of money yearly and monthly, if he can but get
himself recognized as one more Masonic cipher in the numberless
Chapters, Senates and Councils—suspect the true amount of iniquity
fathered upon his Grand Masters and Fellow-apprentices ! Well
may, indeed, the uninitiated Babu, who so readily swallows the tales
spread about the
"
Bara Sahibs
" of Masonry, feel an extra thrill of
horror creeping down his back, while reading the accusations
fulminated against the
"
Illustrious
"
Brethren by their irreconcil
able enemy —the Church of Rome. The wide-spread legend about
the skeleton, stealthily quitting during Masonic meetings his hiding-
place —a secret tomb under the tesselated floor of the Jadukhana —
and creeping from under the banquet-table to appear in his omin
ously cluttering bones, and drink the health of the Grand Master—
will receive an additional colour of verisimilitude, when it compares
notes with these additional accusations. Indeed, the charges
brought out in the Tablet against the
"
Freemason-poet
" and
"
his
hymn to Satan," published, as alleged in the
" Bolletino of the
Grand Orient of Italy," is worthy of perusal. In this pre-eminently
interesting expose" we are told, to begin with, that the unity of Italy
" for which torrents of blood were shed, was but a pretext to destroy
the Papacy, and especially Christian, —"
Catholic Rome." This
design originated with the
"
Anti-Christian Sects,"
(?)
who thus
promoted
"
the ambition of one particular State."
" It was
a
necessity for the sects to strive to eradicate certain principles
out of Italy, and especially the Papacy. They needed Rome as
a
capital
to destroy Catholic Rome. The State needed accomplices in order to
carry out her old ambition of eating up the Italian artichoke leaf by leaf.
And so
it
happened, one fair day, that the sects offered
a
hand to the
State to help her to eat up the artichoke. And the State ate
it
up,
promising in return to lead the sects to Rome."
The above
is
but an entrle en matilre, indispensable to throw
sufficient light upon other and far darker passages that will follow.
No need of reminding the reader that our attention was not turned
to them on account of their political flavour. We are thinking more
of the priest than of the politician. For, —adds the writer
:
—
"
This
is
no parable. It
is
a
true story, and not only true but
undeniably proved,
by
confessions."
During the first centuries of Christianity,
a
law was enacted —and
we do not know
it
was ever abrogated, —under which
a
priest who
divulges the secrets of the confessional, even in
a
case of the greatest
crime, —
is
sentenced to have his tongue cut out. Since then, the
MASONS AND JESUITS
apostles seem to have grown in wisdom ; Christian religion has
become the hand-maid and the secret agent of worldly ambition, its
mysteries being made subservient to political espionage. Such a
public confession in print is really valuable, inasmuch as it contains
a useful warning to those of our members who, having remained
good Christians, though only nominal Roman Catholics, may have
a mind of going some day to confession. It is unnecessary to
remind the reader that by
"
Anti-Christian sects
"
the Tablet writer
means the Freemasons. Thus —
"
Certain things which have been written lately by the more imprudent
of those Sectarians in the praises which they have lavished on their Pietro
Cossa, . . . the poet of this new Rome who ascribes every new glory to
Martin Luther . . . the German foreigner and an apostate friar, . . .
have revealed a good deal more than . . . they intended, of the real object
they had in view in snatching Rome from the Pope ... in ruining the
Papacy and restoring Pagan Rome."
One of the principal writers "of these sects"—"Julius," is
quoted, as he clearly proved the true object by saying :—
" Rome, ancient Rome, civil and Pagan, Rome rises from the mortal
lethargy in which Sacerdotalism had buried her. . . . Let us tear from the
breast of civil Rome, Sacerdotal Rome "... Giuseppe Mazzini . . .
said openly :
" A revolution may bring about the era of a new faith, a new
free Church ... for all this we must have Rome in our hands. And the
'
Bolletino
'
of the Great Orient of Italian Freemasonry, in its very first
number writes—' as long as Italy permits the Papacy to continue . . .
the world will groan under an intolerable yoke.' And still more clearly,
later on, it says :—'
The world at this moment begins to breathe, seeing
Italy prepared to drive away the Roman Pontificate. . . . Foreign
countries recognize the right of the Italians to exist as a nation now that
they have confided to them the highest mission, i.e., that of freeing them
from the yoke of Catholic Rome."
Many good Christians of whom we know,—and no friends of
Freemasonry, nor of Sectarian Protestantism either—may nourish,
we suspect, a feeling of gratitude to the Masons, could they
but seriously believe that the Italian craft is doing even so much
toward the liberation of the world from tyrannical, narrow-minded
Sacerdotalism. Moved by the sincerest philanthropic feelings, we
fervently hope that the above will prove less of a calumny than the
construction put in the said article upon one of the most honest, and
certainly the most partiotic, of Italian popular poets, whose name
closes the following paragraph :—
"
The work of the sects (Anti-Christian Masons) and the work of the
propagators of Italian unity are one ; and in vain do they try to deny
this union when the names of their chiefs, their Ministers, their deputies,
300 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
their senators, and the prefects who govern Italy, are all to be found in
the registers of the sects, which anyone may see who has in his hand the
'
Freemason Almanack.' Their watchword is, to destroy the Catholic
Church and Catholic Rome. This is the confession of the
'
Journal of the
Great Orient
'
: il fine che la Massoneria si propone. (This is the end
which Freemasonry proposes to itself) and for which it has laboured
'
for
centuries.' It was to carry out this intention that it occurred to the
Freemasons to deprive the Pope of Rome ; and Rome was, in conse
quence, torn from the Pope. And the Freemason poet in his hymn to
Satan, which was published in this same
'
Bolletino
'
of the Great Orient
of Italy, writes : —
'
Tu spiri, O Satana,
Nel verso mio,
Se dal sen rompem
Sfidando il Dio
Dei se Pontifici.'1
Ending the poem with this triumphant Masonic vow :—
" Salute ! O Satana I
Hai vinto il Geova
Dei Sacerdoti."'
War to the God of the Catholics and to the Pope as Vicar of Jesus Christ,
that war to promote which the Masonic journal has an apposite rubric,
this is the true end and aim of Rome, Capital of Italy."
Freemasonry has declared war on the Papacy ; has profited by
the ambitions, the passion, the vices of all parties, and made use of
the arm of a Catholic State to complete its preparations, by making
Rome the capital of the anti-Papal movement. In her official
bulletin it is said, without any attempt at concealment, by a writer
named Stefano de Rorai :—
"
Freemasonry will have the glory, of subduing the terrible Hydra of
the Papacy, planting on its ruins the secular standard, veritd, amore."
(Truth and Love.)
Ferari had already said :
"
We cannot advance one step without
striking down the Cross."
Sbarbaro, in his book on Liberty, confessed :
"
All Liberals are agreed
that we never shall have national liberty till we have freed consciences from
the slavery of Rome . . . which penetrates into families, schools, and all
social life." And elsewhere he said :
" We are in the midst of a serious
struggle, not only of social interests, but of religious principles, and he
must be blind who does not perceive it." Freemasonry, as Sbarbaro
has over and over again repeated, and as all its leaders have declared,
1 " It is thou, O Satan,
Who inspirest my verse,
If it breaks forth from my breast
Defying the God
Of the Pontiff-Kings."
1 "
All Hail ; O Satan I Thou hast conquered the Jehovah of the priests."
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHS 301
"
must take the place of the Church." And for this reason alone she has
stolen Rome from the Popes to make it her proper centre, under the plea
of making her the capital of Italy. This was the real reason for the choice
of Rome as a capital ; which was not necessary or desirable, either
historically or politically ; neither for military nor for national reasons ;
and still less for the advantage of the Italian people.
But this end, this real scope of the whole movement,
"
It is premature
to mention," wrote Giuseppe Mazzini, "
and must be only preached to a
redeemed people." For, before this "redemption" of Italy, it was
necessary to blind their eyes and ears with big words about nationality,
and liberty, and the necessity of Rome for United Italy. To-day Free
masonry, thinking it has sufficiently
"
redeemed
" the unhappy Italian
people, throws off the mask and cries without reserve what Alberto
Mario had said a short time before the coming of Italy to Rome :
" To disarm the Church is not to kill her.
We must decapitate her in Rome."
Etc., Etc.
We wonder whether the innocent Parsi and the
"
mild
"
Hindu
of the native
"
Jadukhanas
"
have ever given one single thought to
the above. Do they ever have their dreams disturbed by the un
comfortable thought that, notwithstanding their enforced rupture
with the
"
Grand Orient
"
whose chapters wickedly refuse —do what
their Brethren of the
" Orthodox
"
Craft masonry may—to bow to
the
"
Jehovah of the Priests," but will have their
"
Principe
Createur," —that they, too, are part and parcel with that depraved
Body known as the
"
Grand Orient of France and Italy
"—that so
unblushingly confesses to an inspiration
"
from Satan
" ?
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 179-180.]
Chronicles of the Photographs of Spiritual Beings and
Phenomena Invisible to the Material Eye, by Miss
Houghton. London : E. W. Allen.
A neat and curious volume,
"
Illustrated by six Plates containing
fifty-four Miniature Reproductions from the Original Photographs."
The book is full of valuable testimony. It comes from some of the
most eminent men of science and literature of the day, who all testify
to the fact that photographs have been, and are, taken from
"
Spirit
Beings," their more or less shadowy forms appearing on the negative
near or about the sitters in visible flesh and blood.
" His Most
Serene Highness, George, Prince de Solms," is one of the witnesses
to the phenomena. In a letter incorporated in the Preface he
remarks :—
302 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
" I have examined the various explanations which have been
offered of imitating the Spirit-photographs, but certainly none
that I have seen, are sufficient to account for the phenomena. I
am not aware of any possible explanation of photographs of this
description, of which the figure is displayed partly before and partly
behind the person sitting."
Another eminent witness, Mr. A. R. Wallace, the Naturalist, also
gives his testimony. He says :—
"
If a person with a knowledge of photography takes his own
glass plates, examines the camera used and all the accessories,
and watches the whole process of taking a picture, then, if any
definite form appears on the negative besides the sitter, it is a
proof that some object was present capable of reflecting or emitting
the actinic rays, although invisible to those present. The fact that
any figures, so clear and unmistakably human in appearance,
should appear on plates taken in a private studio by an experi
enced optician and amateur photographer, who makes all his
apparatus himself and with no one present, is a real marvel."
Quite so ; and the evidence is so strong in favour of the genuine
ness of the interesting phenomenon, that to doubt its possibility
would be paramount to proclaiming oneself a bigoted ignoramus.
Nor is it the fact of the phenomenon we doubt. We are thinking
rather of the causes underlying it. The more we study the clear,
perfectly logical and connected evidence of the eye-witnesses
gathered in Miss Houghton's interesting volume, the more we
compare it with her own testimony, and then turn to the illustra
tions given in the book, the less we feel ready to recognize in the
latter the direct work of Spirits, i.e., of disembodied Egos. This is
no sophistical cavil of prejudice or predetermined negation, as some
of our critics may think ; but the sincere expression of honest truth.
We do not even attribute the appearance of the figures, so mysteri
ously appearing without any seemingly physical cause for it, to the
work of the elementary or the elementals —so odious to the orthodox
Spiritualist. We simply venture to ask why such photographs,
without being a fraudulent imitation, —and even though one day
recognized as phenomenal by the Royal Society —should be neces
sarily
"
Spirit pictures
"—and not something else ? Why should the
forms so appearing —often no forms at all, but patches of formless
light, in which it is as easy to detect figures and faces and likenesses,
as it is in a passing cloud, or even in a spot of dirt upon a wall—why
should they be rather taken for the pictures from original human or
any other Spirits than for the reflection of what is already impressed
as images of men and things photographed on the invisible space
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHS 303
around us ? A more or less successful reproduction (the photo
grapher remaining unconscious of
it)
—of
a
deceased person's
features from an image already impressed in the aura of the living
medium, or the persons present, would not be a dishonest attempt
to impose upon the credulous, but
a
bond-fide phenomenon. Let us
once grant for the sake of argument this hypothesis, and
it
would
account perfectly for the
"
figure displayed partly before and partly
behind the person sitting." Moreover, the theory would cover the
ground and explain every unsatisfactory feature in such photo
graphs, features hitherto unaccountable but on the theory of fraud.
The
"
daughter of Jairus
" would not appear in the aura of
a
Hindu
medium, not
if
he were to sit for a thousand years before a camera.
But the said biblical personage
is
a
very natural reproduction in the
presence of
a
Protestant, an intensely pious medium, whose thoughts
are wholly absorbed with the Bible
;
whose mind
is
full of the
miracles of Jesus Christ
;
and who gives thanks, after every suc
cessful
"
spirit-photograph," to the
" wisdom of God
"
by blessing
and praising his name.
A
Hindu or
a
Buddhist medium would
evoke no
"
spoon
"
emerging from
a
ray of celestial light above his
head —but rather his fingers with which he eats his food. But the
biblical interpretation given by the author (pp. 78 and 79) to
explain the apparition of the spoon after she had placed
a
marker in
the Bible, (the passage referring to the twelve spoons of gold, the
offering of the Princes of Israel)
is
just as we should expect it. Nor,
would an orthodox heathen cause to appear on the photograph,
surrounded by
a
cluster of clouds, pictures
" found to be
a
repre
sentation of the Holy Family
"—for the simple reason that having
never given
a
thought to the latter family, no such picture could be
created by his mind, whether conscious or unconscious
;
hence none
being found invisibly impressed around him, none could be caught
in the focus. Were, on the other hand,
a
picture of a boar or
a
fish
to appear instead, or that of
a
blue gentleman playing on the flute
;
and were
a
Hindu medium to recognize in the former the two
Avatars of Vishnu, and in the latter Krishna, we doubt whether any
Christian Spiritualist would be fair enough to admit of the correct
ness of the symbolical interpretation, or even of the genuineness of
the
"
Spirits," since no Christian sensitive believes in either such
Avatars, or in
a
cerulean coloured god.
The most remarkable feature, in the book under review,
is
its
illustrated plates. In their intrinsic value, the miniature photo
graphs are perfect. They do the greatest honour to both the talent
of the artist and the perseverance and patience of the author required
of her, before she could achieve such fine results. As
"
Spirit
"
photographs, however, they allow
a
large margin for criticism,
as they leave everything unexplained, and the figures are by no
304 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
means satisfactory. From Plate I. to Plate VI., with one or two
exceptions the figures of the Spirits exhibit a strange sameness and
rigidness. Beginning with
" Mamma extending her hand towards
me
" and ending with
"
Tommy's grandmother
"
(Plate I.), nine
groups in nine different attitudes represent to our profane eye but
two and the same persons in each picture : the author and a
shrouded ghost —with features invisible. In each case, the Spirit is
wrapped up in the traditional white shroud, very pertinently called
by some correspondent in the work the
" conventional white-sheeted
ghost." Why it should be so, is not sufficiently explained on the
theory given (p. 207) that "the human form is more difficult to
materialize than drapery." If it is a
"
Spirit Power, . . . used in
God's Wisdom to promote the visible appearance of spirit forms,"
as we are told (p. 21), then both the power and wisdom fall very
wide of the mark that should be expected from them. And if not, then
why such a servile copy of the conventional ghosts in theatricals ?
There are many valuable, interesting and highly scientific at
tempts at explanation found scattered throughout the work, and
evidence given by well-known writers of ability and learning. But
the opinion we agree with the most, is contained in the extracts
given from Mr. John Beattie's paper—published in the Spiritual
Magazine for January, 1873, —on the
"
Philosophy of Spirit-
Photography." We will quote a few lines :—
' '
All our most competent thinkers in the great schools of physical
science . . . are forced to the conclusion that there exists an
infinite ocean of ether, in which all material substance floats, and
through which are transmitted all the forces in the physical
universe. ... In photography we have to deal with purely
physical conditions. Is there any proof that in the production of
these pictures any other than physical conditions have had play ?
... In the spirit-photographs taken under my observation, I had
considerable proof that spirit-substance was not photographed.
The forms were vague, but as photographs extremely well defined
. . . these forms are such, and are so singularly related to one
another that, even to the superficial, it is impossible not to see
that such a series of forms could never have been conceived of by
any one who would have had a mind to deceive. . . . We daily
hear of spirit-photographs being made, many of them said to be
recognized as likenesses of friends. . . . Now are these photo
graphs any other than material resemblances, moulded by spiritual
beings, of substances capable, when so condensed, of throwing off
energy very actively. ... I have seen many of the photographs
said to be likenesses. I have two before me now : the same
gentleman in both. In one there is with him a sitting figure half
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHS 305
under the carpet, clearly from an etching of a face with a profile
type exactly like his own ; in the other there is a standing figure
extremely tall and ill-defined. In both cases it is said to be his
mother. . . . No likeness could be discerned between the two. The
sitting figure evidently had been taken from some drawing."
" I mention all this to combat the notion that the actual spirit
can be photographed. I have seen a large number of them which
I believe to be genuine, but in no case have I seen them indicating
the free play of true life. Besides, we cannot believe spiritual
light to depend upon physical laws such as reflection, absorption,
&c., but rather on states of the perceiving mind. If I am right,
within the range of psychological phenomena, spirit-photography
must take a high place in usefulness, if marked by suitable
evidence without which all manifestations are worthless."
We heartily concur with all that is said above, but we disagree
entirely with one of the conclusions and deductions drawn there
from by Mr. Beattie. So far the genuineness of the phenomenon,
called "spirit-photography," is sufficiently proved. But before we
dogmatize upon the agency or rather the causes producing the
phenomenal effects, we have to consider three theories, and choose
the one which not only covers most of the ground, but explains, in
the most satisfactory way, the evident defects in the results so far
obtained. Now the Spiritualists maintain that these pictures are the
photographs of spirits. Men more cautious, those of Mr. Beattie's
turn of mind, would rather think that they are
"
Photographs by
Spirits
"
the form of the object, having been given from plastic
invisible substances
"
by intelligent beings outside of it and moulded
into shape for their purpose." And we (the Occultists) say, that
they are objective copies from subjective photographs impressed
upon the ether of space, and constantly thrown out by our thoughts,
words, and deeds. . . .
The final verdict as to who of us is right and who wrong, can be
brought out by the jury of reason only after a better and more
reliable evidence is obtained of the facts, and, upon a profounder
acquaintance with the Invisible Universe and Psychology ; both,
moreover, have first to become entirely separated from, and inde
pendent of, anything like preconceived notions, or a sectarian
colouring. So long as
"
Spirit-Photography," instead of being
regarded as a science, is presented to the public as a new Revelation
from the God of Israel and Jacob, very few sober men of science, will
care to submit to a microscopic inspection
"
Mary the Virgin, Mother
of our Lord," or even
"
St. John with a dove and three stars in the
niche above him."
u
306 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
THE ARYA
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 181-182.]
The Arya,
" a Monthly Journal devoted to Aryan Philosophy, Art,
Literature, Science, and Religion, as well as to Western Modern
Philosophy
"
conducted by R. C. Bary, at Lahore. It is published
in the interests of the Arya Samaj, founded by our friend and ally,
Swami Dayanand Saraswati. The March number, the first of the
new publication just started, is before us. Conducted by a Brother
of ours, his ability, we doubt not, will guide it safely through the
dangerous passes of literature, the Thermopylaes, where so many
new journals find an untimely death. The first number contains
some very interesting information ; among other matter, a learned
and comprehensive article,
" The Theory of Evolution from an
Aryan Point of View," by one F. T. S. If the initials mean
" Fellow,
Theosophical Society," then the latter ought to feel doubly proud ;
first, of the member who wrote it ; and then of the laudable feeling
of modesty which made him conceal a name of which, as a writer,
he need never be ashamed. The article is so good, that we hope it
will be continued.
" A Choba and his Jujman," by Lalla Sobha
Ram, is a satirical Dialogue between an old orthodox Brahman and
an Arya Samajist, who is kind enough to mention in it and thus
give some prominence to the humble labours of the Founders of the
Theosophical Society.
"
Infant's Home Education," by X., contains
some excellent advice to native parents.
" A Guide to Greek
Nomenclature," a learned article by Daya Rama Varma, of Mooltan,
an old contributor of ours, who shows in a very satisfactory way
that the Kings of Magadha, or the Magedanians, who were
" lords
paramount and emperors of India for above 2000 years," and whose
country was
"
the seat of learning, civilization and trade, were the
forefathers of the Greek Macedonians." This is a very ingenuous
theory and the author's Nomenclature of ancient names deserves
to be more widely known. Hymn First, of the Rig Veda Sanhita,
and the
"
Principles of the Arya Samaj," with an explanation of the
objects of that body, are also given. Having on the first page
"
deplored the fact
" that the Arya Samajists are
"
talked of as the
blind followers of Swami Dayanand Saraswati," denounced by
"
self-
styled Pandits ... as Atheists," and regarded by some of their
best friends
"
as a religious sect," the true position is explained
further on, in an article signed R. C. We confess, we have ourselves
always laboured under the impression that the Arya Samaj was a
sect. Notwithstanding all denial, we could hardly be blamed for it,
since the Arya Samaj is a Society answering perfectly to the defini
THE ARYA 307
tion of the word
"
sect
"
as given by Dictionaries. A sect is a body
of persons who have separated from others in virtue of some special
doctrine or doctrines ; a religious or philosophical school, which has
deserted the established Church, or
" which holds tenets different
from those of the prevailing denomination in a Kingdom or State."
The Arya Samaj then, since it is a body of men who follow the
teachings of Swami Dayanand, whose school has separated itself
from orthodox, or established Brahmanism and Hinduism, must be
a sect as much as is the Brahmo Samaj, or any other body composed
merely of co-religionists. Our Society is not a sect, for it is com
posed of men of all sects and religions, as of every school of thought.
But we believe no Mahomedan or Buddhist would be received into
the Samaj of our respected friend, the Swamijee, unless he gave up
one —his reverence for his prophet, the other—for Buddha. More
over, he would have to renounce the tenets and dogmas of his
religion, and accept those of the Vedas, as the only revealed books ;
and the interpretation of the latter by Swami Dayanand as the only
infallible one, though, to interpret an infallible revelation, requires
an infallible revealer. Let it not be understood that we take our
friends, the Arya Samaj ists, to task for it ; or, least of all, that we
seek to undervalue, in any way whatsoever, the teachings of Pandit
Dayanand. We only expect to call correct things by their correct
names, as it would be beyond our power to quarrel with every well-
established definition. But the objects as defined in the article
signed
"
R. C," are excellent :—
" The Arya Samaj is a society established with the object of
dispelling from among humanity, ignorance with all the super
stitions which it has bred, and which unfortunately still bind in
iron chains the people of India and, to some extent, the people
of the West, as well as to reform all religious rites and ceremonies
by the light of the doctrines of the Vedas. ... A pious and
righteous person who has correctly read and understood the
Vedas and who never deviates from their teachings in his practice
is a Brahman, be he or she the native of America, Europe or
Aryavart itself.
"
The Arya Samaj holds the Vedas as a Revelation vouchsafed
to man at his introduction into the world, and this Revelation
as having a counterpart in nature, viz., the whole creation. A
religion that conflicts with science does not deserve that name.
The laws of nature are universal and irrevocable and no man or
woman can infringe any one of them with impunity, and so is
the case with the doctrines of the Vedas which teach us that our
thoughts, words and deeds are the authors of our fate and of our
future state. There is no stern deity punishing innocents or an
over-merciful one forgiving sinners."
308 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
This last doctrine is highly philosophical ; and having a true
Buddhist ring about it, appears to us perfectly logical. Only in
such a case what is the active part, if any, allotted to God in the
Arya system ? Will our esteemed colleague and brother kindly
enlighten us on this subject ? This is no idle criticism, but an earnest
enquiry which we would fain settle seriously with the Aryas. In
the
"
Principles of the A. S.," we are told that, among many other
things, God is "just and merciful." Now, if his justice and mercy
are simply nominal attributes since there is no deity to punish or to
forgive, why such attributes or even such a deity at all ? Science,
common-sense and experience teach us that by the disuse of any
organ, when the functions are suspended in it, the limb becomes
atrophied, the same law holding good in the case of mental qualities.
If the
" All-wise, the Support and the Lord of all," the omniscient
God, is no better than a constitutional sovereign, the supreme power
being vested in him but nominally, while the real power remains in
the hands of his Parliament (represented in our case by man's
"
thoughts, words, and deeds," or Karma), and that thus the
" Lord
of All " becomes simply ornamental, why have him at all ? We
hope the Arya will not refuse to enlighten us upon the subject.
Meanwhile we wish it sincerely long life and success.
A THEOLOGICAL SNOB
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 183-184.]
A pretty story comes to us from Madras about the American
lecturer, now starring in India. The Bombay Gazette once wittily
remarked of him that
" there is one thing greater than his ability,
and that is his bumptiousness." To this adjective it might have
pertinently added —had Mr. Joe Cook unveiled himself as fully here
as he has done in Calcutta and Madras—those of his snobbishness
and malice. In the last-named city, —we are told in a letter—"
his
public vilifications of the celebrated infidels and heretics of the day,
became so indecent, that even the Madras Mail, —the only paper
that noticed his lectures —had to prudently suppress them." His
Christian utterances must have been superb, indeed. We tender
our congratulations to his Lordship, the Bishop of Madras, who,
we are told, occupied the chair during Cook's pious deliveries. It
behooved well the chief pastor of a flock entrusted to him by one who
said :
" Blessed are the meek," and the successor of that other, who
declared that
"
Being reviled, we bless
"
(1 Cor.
ii,
12), to preside
over such an assembly. But perhaps, as the apostle assures us, that
"
no reviler shall inherit the kingdom of God
"—his Lordship kindly
intended to give Mr. Cook the benefit of his intercession and prayers
?
A THEOLOGICAL SNOB 309
Mr. Joseph Cook's policy seems to be well taken from a Loyolian
point of view. He first reviles and slanders those whom he may well
fear, and then, whenever challenged to substantiate his calumnies,
basing himself on the slanders invented and circulated by himself,
he refuses point-blank to meet them I This brave champion of
"
modern religious thought
"
acts prudently. His great intellect—
which may well be likened to those brilliant toy-balloons which burst
at the first hard touch of a finger —could never resist the mighty
palm of a Bradlaugh, or even that of a less intellectual person.
Thus, when in London, he hastened to slander Mrs. Besant and
Mr. Bradlaugh, and then refused to meet them on the ground
of his own villainous calumnies. In Bombay he pursued the same
policy with regard to Colonel Olcott and Mr. Bennett ; in Poona he
impertinently refused to have anything to say to Captain Banon for
the same weighty reasons, etc., etc. And thus he acted now at
Madras, only slightly varying his programme, as will be seen, and
adding thereby to his immortal wreath of oratorical bumptiousness
one more unfading leaf —that of snobbishness. We have the delightful
story from the victim's own pen : he being a well-educated, respec
table and highly cultivated, young man of Madras, the editor of the
Philosophic Inquirer and a well-known Freethinker : Mr. P. Muru-
gessa Mudaliyar —in short.
There is not a man or woman in India, we presume, but knows that
neither the social nor moral standing, nor yet the birth, education or
intellect of a young native, can be ever measured by his salary or the
official position he is made to occupy. And, we are not the only one
to know that there are poor clerks at a most infinitesimal salary
in this country who might give points to the best European meta
physician of the day and yet remain the victors in the wranglership.
Mr. Cook had certainly time enough to be posted about this fact by
his numerous padri-satellites. And so he was, we have no doubt ;
but that was the very reason why he had the vulgarity and bad taste
to resort to a mean stratagem instead. Dreading to meet in public
debate our correspondent —who is also employed in the Bank of
Madras—he put openly forward the excuse that he was only an
humble clerk on a very small salary ! He had volunteered to answer
publicly every question and objection put forward by educated non-
Christians ; and when the hour of the trial had come, he actually
had the disgusting snobbery of answering from the platform :
" /
cannot deal with a man who is only a writing clerk in the Bank, on
Rs. 20." / /
This objection —as coming from a public lecturer of America,
a country which hardly ever had a President but had begun life as a
poor village stable-boy, a farmer's labourer, or had, before moving
into the
" White-House," to put away his tailor's scissors with a pair
3io THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
of unfinished pants—is the most refreshingly ludicrous anecdote we
have ever heard of. This fact of the people of America, electing for
the highest honours men, according to their personal worth and merit,
and regardless of their birth and social standing—which is the
noblest and grandest feature in the American Republic and its
Constitution —seems to have entirely escaped the memory of our
aristocratic preacher. We would like to know who may possibly be
the ancestors of Mr. Joseph Cook himself ? And, we would be as
glad to learn the name of that American —even of one, out of the
forty millions of its citizens—who is able to boast of a genealogical
table equal to that of the humblest native clerk in India. Does this
" orator
"
want us to believe he descends from William the Conqueror
or perchance, like Pallas-Athena, from Jupiter's brain, his wisdom
being equal to his warlike propensities, if not to his bravery ? An
American going by the very plebeian name of Cook, refusing to lower
his dignity by meeting in a discussion a clerk is curious news, indeed !
It is really more than we expected even from that very high caste
Brahmin of the city of Boston.
ANOTHER " ORTHODOX
"
PROSECUTION !
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 184-186.]
The Asiatic nations have often been accused of holding obstinately
to their old routine and customs, and of being the least progressive
individuals in the whole world. Gradual civilization alone, it is
urged, has the needed potentiality in it, to destroy unreasoned
prejudices. Education, only, can force upon the mind of a reviving
nation, the conviction that the world and everything in it has to
move on, lest that people which should fall asleep over its old ways
and customs be outrun by its neighbours, and left in its motionless
condition to die the death of stagnation.
All this and much more is preached by the moralists of Europe
and America. Unfortunately, for the practical good of humanity,
while imitating theoretically that German preacher, who making his
naive declaration to the parishioners, enjoined them to
"
Do as I
tell you and not as I do," most of those pioneers of progress them
selves, the press and others, never fail to practically rap on the
knuckles of those who follow out the second part of the wise advice.
Neither law, nor educated society, nor yet the majority of the people,
ever go apace with the progress of civilization : never at least, so
far, as to prove its good results by helping to demonstrate the
benefit of an innovation in its practical applications. Old and mouldy
laws are allowed to remain without revision or amendment ; fetish
worshipping society is permitted and even encouraged to fall foul
ANOTHER "
ORTHODOX "
PROSECUTION ! 311
of any one who disregards those grim old idols of hers, called
"
Public
Prejudice
"
and
" Conventional Respectability
"
; while the common
herd, the plebs, whose innate feature seems to be modelled by the
law of atavism upon that of their forefathers the sheep, will follow
servilely and blindly its leader —the majority —and try to hoot out
of his life any innovator that society condemns as an iconoclast of
their cherished routine.
Such thoughts naturally suggest themselves to one who reads
the news of another recent persecution and trial, of an honest
and a good man. The victim, this time, is one among the most
worthy members of our Society : a true brother of the great
" Brotherhood of Humanity "—Charles E. Taylor, M.D., a well-
known book-seller and a very successful magnetic and homoeopathic
healer of St. Thomas, West Indies. A few years back, Dr. Henry
Slade, a quiet unobtrusive man, a thorough gentleman in his ways
and manners, and an honest and sincere Spiritualist, was prosecuted
and barely escaped imprisonment with hard labour, for the sole
crime of being a wonderful medium and for proving it most effectively
to any one who had a mind to investigate for himself the claim.
An old law, which growing civilization had left in disuse to moulder
in its archives for over a century, the law against soothsaying and
palmistry, was dragged out from its hiding-place for the greater
shame of the British code, and made to serve as a weapon to break
the medium's head with. Law is but too often made a convenient
mantle, under the cover of which bigotry in all its protean forms
revels and chuckles in its triumph over truth. In the case of Dr.
Slade, it was the bigotry of dogmatic materialism, under the guise
of orthodox science that floored for a short time fact ; and Dr. Slade
was sentenced under the provision of the wise old law. This once,
it is the bigotry of professional rapacity, the envy of a mercenary
apothecary that triumphs. In December last, our brother, Mr.
Charles E. Taylor, was sentenced at the Town Court of St. Thomas,
" for having practised animal magnetism and dispensed homoeo
pathic medicine." True, he had practised the former for years
gratis ; he had relieved and cured hundreds of poor patients, to
whom, were they to die at the door of the drugstore of the said
apothecary, the complainant would not have given his allopathic
drugs and pills without being paid for them, while the defendant
dispensed to rich and poor his homoeopathic medicine free from any
charge. His treatment, moreover, as was legally shown, had never
proved detrimental to those treated by him. But what does it all
matter ! The apothecary is a legally licensed leech for bleeding men and
their pockets, while Mr. Taylor is but an unselfish practical bene
factor of his fellow-creatures. The apothecary relieves his clients of
the weight of their specie while Mr. Taylor relieved them but of their
312 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
pains and aches —if not as legally at least as effectually. But Law
has to countenance licensed robbery, though it has no provision
made to force
"
orthodox
"
physicians and druggists to refund their
money to those whom they do not cure, let alone bring back to life
those whom they may legally kill in the course of their legal practice.
On the other hand, having once provided for the safety of its mono
polists, it is forced to put a check on all those who may be in then-
way ; even though, they do prove, as in the case in hand, that they
have alleviated the sufferings of hundreds and thousands of men,
rescued more than one life precious to a number of friends and rela
tives, and thereby as a natural result saved the latter from months
and years of cruel mental torture. All this, of course, in the eyes
of the all-wise law and social prejudice counts for nothing. Christian
law and Christian societies in their pre-eminently Christian lands
may conveniently forget in the nineteenth century that the practice
of healing by
"
laying on of hands," and the
"
miracles" of mesmerism
lie at the very bottom, and are the very corner-stone in the founda
tion of their faith —as it originated during the first century. Trained
in, and accustomed, as it is, to wallow in the mire of hypocrisy
and false pretences, it would be useless to try and have society
admit that, were there anything like logic and consistency in the
laws of its respective countries, once that such a mode of healing
is shown illegal, and mesmeric
"
miracles
"
proved no better than
a moonshine, then does their creed based upon such practices crumble
down like an edifice pulverized hollow by the white ants. This
glaring contradiction between their profession of faith and their
bitter opposition, coupled with an insurmountable prejudice to that
old mode of healing—hence to Spiritualism and Theosophy—as
shown by Christian Society and Christian Law are the legitimate
outcome of fifteen centuries of cant and hypocrisy. These facts
alone, that while society finds it superlatively respectable to believe
it, and accepts theoretically and upon blind faith that which it scoffs
at and rejects when shown its possibilities practically ; and that
law,—one of whose duties it is to enforce and protect its state-
religion, —shows nevertheless the most superb contempt for, and
practical disbelief in, the efficacy of that which constitutes the very
basis of the
"
miracles
" claimed to have been worked by their
Christ—would be preposterously ludicrous, were not its daily results
so sad and so hurtful to humanity. The pointed remark in a sermon
preached by Henry Ward Beecher, that could Jesus come back and
behave in the streets of New York, as he did in those of Jerusalem, he
would find himself confined in a jail and forced by the city authorities
to take a juggler's licence —holds now as good as ever. Law
and Society with their boasted civilization become with every day
more
"
like unto whited sepulchres, which, indeed, appear beautiful
ANOTHER "ORTHODOX" PROSECUTION
outwardly, but are within full of dead men's bones and of all unclean-
ness." The paradox that we now find practical Christians but among
the atheists, the materialists and the infidel heretics, is rapidly
becoming an indisputable theorem. Hence one more victim of dis
graceful bigotry supported by the hand of Christian Law.
" Only allopaths, belonging to some recognized university are
allowed to practise in these Islands
"
(of West Indies), writes to
us Mr. Taylor.
"
Formerly not even an allopath was allowed
here, unless he had passed an examination before the Board of
Copenhagen. The Homoeopathic Eclectic or magnetic physicians
—not even when diploma'ed—if I may use the term—are permitted
to practise here ; nor does the apothecary (the complainant) keep
homoeopathic medicines. Thus, the old fable of the
'
Dog in the
Manger
'
is repeated. . . I am not unkindly disposed towards
him—but there is a limit. ..."
This proves that the laws of Copenhagen need as careful a revision
as those of nearly every other country now ; and, that Denmark,
if it expects to keep apace with progress and civilization, may be as
sorely in need of a new codification as it was in the days of its Prince
Hamlet. Even Russia abolished the law forbidding the homoeopathic
physicians to prepare their own medicines, so far back as in 1843.
In nearly every large town, the world over, there are homoeopathic
societies. In Europe alone in 1850 there were already over 3000
practising homoeopathists, two-thirds of whom belonged to Germany,
France and Great Britain ; and, there are numerous dispensaries,
hospitals and wealthy curative establishments appropriated to this
method of treatment in every large town, even in Copenhagen itself.
At this very day, a revolution is taking place in science, owing to
the proofs given by the famous Professor Jaegar of Stuttgart of the
marvellous efficacy of the infinitesimal homoeopathic doses. Homoeo
pathy is on the eve of being demonstrated as the most patent of
curative agents. Figures cannot lie. We send the St. Thomas
fogies to the newly invented application by Professor Jaeger —a
most eminent physiologist —of the instrument called chronoscope
by which his neural-analyses are produced.
At the incipient stage of every useful innovation, its success only
increases the enmity of the opponents. In 1813, when after the with
drawal of the allied armies the typhus patients became so numerous
in Leipsic, that it was found necessary to divide them among the
physicians of that city, of the 73 allotted to Dr. Hahneman, the
founder of the homoeopathic system of medicine, and by him treated
on that method, all recovered except one, a very old man ; while the
patients under the care of the allopaths died in the proportion of
8 men in 10. To show their appreciation of the services rendered,
314 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
the authorities, at the instigation of the apothecaries, who conspired
to make the former revive against Dr. Hahneman an old law, —
exiled the doctor who was forced to seek refuge in Kothen in the
dominions of the Duke of Anhalt. Let us hope that Mr. C. E.
Taylor will find his reward for his invaluable and disinterested services
in the end, even as Dr. Hahneman did for his work. For, after
having been the object of ceaseless attacks for over thirty years
from those whose pecuniary interests were opposed to the beneficent
innovation —as those of our modern allopaths are opposed now to
mesmerism in addition to homoeopathy —he lived to see Leipsic
atoning for its sins and repairing the injury done to his reputation
by erecting a statue to him in one of the city squares.
" A FAITHFUL '
WITNESS '
WILL NOT LIE "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 187-188.]
"
Thou shalt not raise a false report : put not thine hand with the
wicked to be an unrighteous Witness
"
(Exodus xxiii, 1).
The Indian Witness is our old Methodist friend—the Lucknow
Witness —in disguise. Why the godly creature should have cast
off its skin, is a problem to be set aside with the other ways of
Providence quite as mysterious and puzzling to the God-fearing
Christian as they are to the infidel Theosophist. Whether it suddenly
felt the need of proving its ubiquity as one of the
"
Witnesses
"
to
the God of Abraham and Jacob, and so volunteered its inestimable
services ; or, that it was subpoenaed, and, with the
"
people's dollar
"
in its pocket, had to enlarge its field of operation, in order to give
evidence on a broader scale ; or, again, that it found Bengal a fitter
locality —from a climatic point of view—to threaten the obstinate
heathen with damnation, are all delicate points which we need
not raise at present, nor lose our time to discuss. However it may
be, it has quietly shifted its head-quarters from provincial, modest
Lucknow, and we find it in the very centre of religious fermentation—
the proud capital of Bengal, —Calcutta. Our prying, psalm-croaking
well-wisher and colleague, was right. Its choice was certainly
judicious, as it has now before its prophetic and inspired eye a far
broader horizon, a far wider scope for religious reflection and critica
observation than it could ever hope for in Mussulman Oudh. All the
specialists agree in saying that the
"
City of Palaces
"
is the best
manured spot with the theological guano of stray birds of prey of
every feather, in all India. Hence, it is the most fertile land for
missionary
" plant
" and for raising reformers and
" Christian
witnesses
" on it, of every colour and species. Calcutta, as we all
know, is the very hot-bed of brilliant oratory and world-famous
" A FAITHFUL '
WITNESS '
WILL NOT LIE "
315
preachers, from the mellifluous Babu Keshub Chunder Sen—preach
ing Christ and Durga, —down to the mealy-mouthed dissenters on
the editorial staff of our Wesleyan contemporary, gushing over the
departure and virtues of another
"
Christian Witness," as they call
Major-General Croften, whosoever that gallant warrior may be.
Anyhow, the Lucknow-Indian Witness, having placed itself in an
excellent position, from whence to spy and encourage the variegated
specimens of converted preachers running amuck for their heathen
brothers' scalps, we had fondly hoped that, as an eye-witness, it
might have now amended its evil ways ; that it had become a trifle
more truthful in its denunciations of the iniquities perpetrated by
all the Mow-Christian sects and societies ; and, less exaggerated in
the evidence brought to bear upon the moral beauty and sanctity
of every stray Christian lecturer. Alas, we were once more disap
pointed ! The Indian Witness is as false and untruthful, as slandering
and gushing as was its Lucknow Sosia —no mean compliment, by
the way, to the latter. Acting on a different policy than the
missionary papers generally do, we mean to substantiate our charges.
In its issues of February 25th and March 4th, we find ourselves,
very unexpectedly, receiving high honours, and a prominent place
in the editorial paragraphs of that organ of deep Methodist thought.
Its meek editors chuckle with suppressed delight ; and their large,
apostolic hearts seem overflowing with Christian love and charity —
the very essence of Christism, —as they couple our humble names
with that of the "great" Lecturer, and still greater libeller and
caviller, Mr. Joe Cook, of the Back-biting Army of the Lord. It is
no doubt, from that most trustworthy personage, that the no less
trustworthy Methodist journal got the following bits of reliable
information ? Says the Indian Witness in its issue of March 4th :
" Defections from the ranks of infidelity are becoming somewhat
frequent of late. Colonel Olcott recently named D. M. Bennett, Colonel
Ingersoll, and Mr. Bradlaugh, as the three most worthy
'
martyrs
'
of the age,
and now the American papers tell us that Ingersoll begins to show signs of
receding from his extreme positions. He no longer denies the existence of
the soul after death, although he uses an
'
if
'
in speaking on the subject.
Intimate friends say this is only one of many indications of a change that
has been coming over him recently ; meanwhile, Mr. Frothingham, the
strongest, and perhaps the most influential, of the avowed disbelievers in
America has confessed that his system of infidelity has proved a failure,
while Mr. Abbott, a well-known leader of the extreme school, has just
written a letter, saying that he had withdrawn from the Free Religious
Association, because he could not induce the body with which he acted
to say a single word in repudiation of the identical charges which Mr.
Joseph Cook brought against Bennett and his friends in Bombay.
(?)
The
same charges had been made by Mr. Cook in America, and Mr. Abbott,
himself an avowed infidel, was the only man in the Association who was
316 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
willing to wash his hands of the accusation. Truly, our Theosophists seem
ready to open a cage of very unclean birds in our Indian cities."
We have italicized the five glaring misstatements composing
the five sentences, contained in about two dozen of lines. They are
all represented as facts, but, as the reader will see, consist of three
skilful misrepresentations, of one clumsy falsehood, and of one
calumny of the kind so beloved by, and so constantly resorted to,
in the missionary organs, devoted to proving the superiority of the
Christian morality over that of the false religions of the Hindu
systems. We will enumerate the misstatements.
i. Colonel Olcott has never either published or named Mr. D. M.
Bennett, Colonel Ingersoll, and Mr. Bradlaugh as
"
the three most
worthy martyrs of the age." Our President having nothing to do
with the Western materialistic Freethought , and being well acquainted
with the lives of the three gentlemen above named, has respect
and sympathy for them personally, but none whatever for their
extreme views. Knowing, therefore, (a) Colonel Ingersoll, as a
very happy, prosperous man, successful throughout his lecturing
career, always coming out triumphant from his squabbles with the
bigots who attack him, and one who probably never had one hour's
"
martyrdom
" in his life ; and
(b)
Mr. Bradlaugh as rather the
reverse of a martyr, inasmuch as he certainly gives more trouble to
his persecutors than they can give to him, —he could not have uttered
such an absurdity. What he said and maintains is, that those three
gentlemen had done more to upset dogmatic Christianity in England
and America, and to arrest its progress even here, than any other
three men living. And hence, that they had had to suffer for
it
in
their reputations torn to pieces by vile calumny and the efforts of
untruthful and unprincipled Christian zealots.
As for Mr. Bennett, though this sentiment has never found room
in Colonel Olcott's public utterances, for there was no need for it,
yet the editor of the Truth Seeker may justly be regarded by all
those who know him personally as
a
"
marytr," and the victim of
a
gigantic and the most shameful conspiracy ever resorted to, in
order to get rid of
a
dangerous opponent. We, who know something
of his private life, and believe in the impartial judgment of some
of our best friends in America, who knew him for years, maintain
that he was made
a
martyr to, and has suffered for, that cause of
freedom for which every right-minded man in America will stand
up and will die,
if
necessary. We certainly do not include in the
latter category the majority of American clergymen and missionaries
nor yet the fools and bigots who become their blind tools. And know
ing so much, notwithstanding, and to the face of Mr. Joseph Cook,
and his pharisaical supporters, we proclaim Mr. Bennett
a
kind,
truthful, quiet, right-minded man, imperfect and liable to err, as
" A FAITHFUL '
WITNESS '
WILL NOT LIE "
317
every other mortal, but, at the same time scrupulously honest, and,
as incapable of spreading false reports even against his bitterest
enemies, as the latter are incapable of doing anything else. Impene
trable as they are to any decent feeling of justice, forgiveness or
charity, most of them carry, under their black gowns and white
ties, a bladder full of gall instead of a heart.
2. Colonel Ingersoll has not shown the slightest sign of recanting,
or of
"
receding from his extreme positions." To our knowledge,
and having heard him lecture years back, he has never denied the
principle of immortality, but had only questioned the possibility
for any man of obtaining any certainty to that effect. Is it his
latest pamphlet,
"
What shall I do to be saved ?
" or his sharp
rejoinder to Judge Jere S. Black, on the subject of the Christian
religion (see November Number of the North American Review)
that shows any such sign of
"
receding
" ?
3. The news spread by other American false Witnesses to the
effect that Mr. Frothingham
"
has confessed that his system of in
fidelity has proved a failure," is denied by that eminent gentleman
himself, in the papers. This is what the Reverend M. J. Savage, the
personal friend of Mr. Frothingham, said in his Discourse delivered
"
upon authority from Mr. Frothingham himself, to explain more
fully the latter gentleman's present position, and remove certain
misconceptions of that position made by the press, especially by
the evangelical religious press of the country." The latter, of course,
being as prompt as ever to catch at a straw, and to spread falsa
reports in order to maintain its reputation for disseminating the
truth of God. If the Indian Witness is eager to know the exact
position of Mr. Frothingham, the most intellectual and broad-
minded of those Freethinkers who are called the
"
Free Religionists,"
it may learn it now.
In a letter republished in the Boston Banner of Light, January 7,
1882, and other papers, Mr. Fred. L. H. Willis informs us that :
" From Mr. Savage's explanation of Mr. Frothingham's position,
if we may so term it, we learn that the representative of the press
who interviewed the latter gentleman and elicited from him the
statements that have called forth such wide-spread comments,
instead of taking notes of what was said, trusted to his memory,
and consequently misstated . . . some of Mr. Frothingham's
positions."
For example : Mr. F. does not think that
" unbridled free
thought leads to a dreary negation called materialism."
" On
the contrary," says Mr. Savage,
"
he holds that no science
worthy the name of a science can possibly tend that way."
"
Nor does he believe that revealed religion is stronger to-day than
318 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
it was twenty years ago, as has been so triumphantly asserted."
(By Mr. Cook for one.)
" He would limit thought in no direction. He would go back
to no past church statement or creed. He believes that the work of
the iconoclast is not yet finished, and denies that he has any disposition
to recall one word that he has spoken or published."
That settles the question. If this is
"
confessing that the system
of infidelity (in the sense of the sectarians and dogmatists) has
proved a failure, then we can expect the Indian Witness to say one
of these days that we have confessed to the missionary papers as
to the most truthful organs in the world. But what is Mr. Frothing-
ham's real position ? Mr. Savage tells us that in so many words :
" For many years," says Mr. Frothingham to his friends,
" I
have been inclined to try to prove that everything comes out of
the earth below, that religion is purely earthly in its origin, some
thing made by man in his effort to perfect himself, and I have
not taken account enough of the working in the world of a divine
power —a power above man working on and through him to lift
and lead."
"
I hope that new light will break out, not of God's words in
the sense of a book, but of God's universe through new manifestations,
though natural methods in the human soul."
This is the expression of pure theosophy, and the very essence of
it : Therefore, Mr. Frothingham is merging with every day more
into Spiritualism and Theosophy ; and rejecting the Bible, which
he contemptuously styles a
" book," he
"
would go back," he says
—"
to no past church statement or creed." How does this tally
with the Indian Witness' truthful statements ?
4. We never knew a Mr. Abbot, nor do we know of any Mr. Abott,
who knows us, least of all one, who would feel obliged to come out
as our champion. Nor has our Society, nor have we ourselves
anything to do, or in common with the
" Free Religious Association."
Therefore, the statement given out that a Mr. Abott withdraws from
that Society, because he could not induce that body to repudiate
" the
identical charges which Mr. Cook brought against Bennett and his
friends in Bombay
"
is a deliberate and impudent falsehood, whoever
may be its author. For all we know, its first part (regarding Mr.
Bennett) may be true ; nevertheless, it is utterly false in its conclud
ing words. To begin with, no one had (not even ourselves), nor was
any one expected to repudiate any charge brought against us by
J. Cook, since with the exception of the insane and ridiculous charge
against the
" Theosophists "—i.e., Colonel Olcott and Madame
MR. WILLIAM EGLINTON'S DEPARTURE FROM INDIA 319
Blavatsky, —having come to India to learn sorcery and then to teach
it in their turn, " to the mediums already exposed
"—no charge was
ever preferred. There was plenty of direct and vulgar abuse, and,
perhaps, hazy hints and suggestions which made people laugh more
at the lecturer than at what he had said, and that is all. But so far
neither the noisy Cook, nor its servile admirer—the Indian Witness
—have ever substantiated any charge worthy of being noticed.
"
Truly our Theosophists seem ready to open a cage of very unclean
birds in our Indian cities
" is the concluding strike of the little
Methodist viper. We do not know of any uncleaner birds in India
than the crows and vultures, of the genus maleficus of the Theologus
family ; unless it be the American bustard, which began to emigrate
here in masses of late. All such feed on the heathen refuse, and boast
of it as of a dainty dish. As for the Theosophists, their
"
cage
"
has
never yet contained an unclean bird, but it found itself immediately
expelled and pecked out of the society as every other element that
pollutes it. Let the Indian Witness read our Rules and Statutes
carefully before it ventures on any more such calumnies as the one
quoted ; and let its editors beware of what they say, lest they find
themselves one day, compelled by law, to publish a full retractation
and an apology to the Theosophists : as even were the editors of
the Dhyanodaya and of the Calcutta Statesman. Of course, in offering
this salutary advice we bear in mind the wise proverb of Solomon,
the King of the 700 wives and the 300 concubines, that saith : "An
ungodly Witness scorneth judgment and the mouth of the wicked
devoureth iniquity." Yet, we derive some hope and consolation
from the verse that directly follows, since it promises that —"
Judg
ments are prepared for scorners and stripes for the back of fools."
MR. WILLIAM EGLINTON'S DEPARTURE FROM
INDIA
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, pp. 188-189.]
The enemies of Spiritualism and Theosophy can rejoice and
triumph, and the Calcutta bigoted and dyspeptic fogies —old or
young—are invited to render thanks to their respective gods. Mr.
Eglinton is gone, having left for England on the S.S.
"
Vega
" on the
16th ult. And now, for some time to come at least, they are allowed
a respite and can draw a long breath of relief. Newspaper accounts
of levitations, of materialization and direct writing, of instantaneous
transfer of articles and letters through distances of thousands of
miles, and many other weird and inexplicable phenomena may
trouble their dreams no longer. The nightmare of a new religious
belief —with its genuine, palpable, demonstrated
"
miracles
"
to
320 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
support its claims ; a belief arresting the progress, if not entirely
superseding the religions based upon blind faith and unverifiable
traditions no better than fairy tales, has vanished and dissolved
behind the great ocean mists, like one of Macbeth's unclean
witches. . . .
Well, time alone will show which of the two now prevailing super
stitions is calculated to survive. Whether it is occult phenomena —
based upon actual, though yet undiscovered, correlations of natural
forces ; or—belief in Divine and Satanic
" miracles." Methinks,
faith in the "miracles " of an Infinite, personal No Body, and in
those of his hereditary foe, —the cloven-footed, horned, and caudated
gentleman, the Lord of the hot regions —is more calculated to
disgrace our age of agnosticism and blank denial, than belief in the
spiritual agencies. Meanwhile, Mr. Eglinton is gone, and with him
the best opportunity that was ever offered to India to investigate
and vindicate the claims of her old world-renowned sages and
philosophers—is also gone. Thus for some time at least, will the
assertions of the Hindu Shastras, the Buddhist and Zoroastrian
books of wisdom, to the effect that there exist occult powers in man
as well as in nature—be still held as the unscientific vagaries of the
ancient savages.
Since the appearance of the editorial, " A Medium Wanted
"
(The Theosophist, May, 1881,) in which Mr. Eglinton was mentioned
for the first time, and our readers shown that the wonderful pheno
mena produced through him were attested to over the signature of
such witnesses as Mr. A. R. Wallace, Sir Garnet Wolseley, General
Brewster, Mr. Robert S. Wyld, LL.D., Edin., M. Gustave de Vey,
and a host of others —from that day to this one we never met him
personally, nor even held a correspondence with him. We refused
going to Calcutta to meet him, and felt obliged to deny ourselves
and our numerous members the instructive pleasure of seeing him
here, as was several times proposed. We have done so intentionally.
Feeling that we had no right to subject him to insulting suspicions —
such as we had ourselves to suffer from, and which once we were
brought together would be sure to follow in our trail, —we abstained
from seeing him, and spoke even of his work but casually, once or
twice in this journal and only for the purpose of giving publicity to
some wonderful phenomena of his. Our cautious policy inspired by
a natural feeling of delicacy—more for his sake than our own—was
misunderstood and misinterpreted by our best friends, who at
tributed it to a spirit of opposition to every thing connected with
Spiritualism or its phenomena. No greater mistake was ever made,
no more erroneous misconception ever set afloat. For now that Mr.
Eglinton is gone, and with him every danger from malicious slanders
has disappeared, we give our reasons publicly for such a
"
policy of
MR. WILLIAM EGLINTON'S DEPARTURE FROM INDIA 321
non-interference," on our part, and gladly publish a full recognition
of the good that gentleman has achieved in India. If he has failed
to convince the general public and the masses, it is because, knowing
of him, they yet knew nothing of his wonderful gifts, having never
had an opportunity of witnessing his phenomena. The seances given
were limited to a small fraction of the Anglo-Indian Society, to
educated ladies and gentlemen —worth convincing. And so much
Mr. Eglinton has most undoubtedly achieved with great success.
During the several months he passed in Calcutta, and notwithstand
ing the determined and ferocious opposition coming from ingrained
sceptics as much as from religious Zealots, no one who came to his
seances ever went away with a shadow of doubt but that what he
had seen was pukka genuine phenomena, which to whatsoever
agency it might be attributable was no sleight of hand or clever
conjuring. The life of a medium—especially that of a genuine and
honest medium, born with the instincts of a gentleman —is a hard
and a bitter one. It is one of daily mental tortures, of deep-felt and
everlasting anxiety, lest through the brutal interference and pre
cipitation of the first dissatisfied sceptic, who imagines he detects
fraud where there is but the manifestation of a weird genuine
phenomenon, his hard-won reputation for honesty should be ruined
in a few moments. This is an agony that few of the investigators,
even among the Spiritualists are able to fully realize. There are so
few genuine, honest mediums among the professionals of that class,
that accustomed to the feigned agitation —as easily soothed as
exhibited, —and to the feigned indifference, manifested at the first
symptoms of suspicion by the mediums of the tricky crew, the
Spritiualists themselves become insensible to the degree of mental
suffering inflicted upon the true sensitive who feels he is unjustly
suspected. And such an insufferable state of mind, we suspect, must
have fallen to the lot of Mr. Eglinton during his stay in India. Not
withstanding that he lived under the strong protection of devoted
friends, we have reasons to believe that it was that, which made him
hasten the day of his departure. At all events, it would have been
in store for him had he remained much longer in Calcutta. While
disgusting intrigues were set on foot by the public enemies of truth,
who plotting secretly, as they always do, wrote unguarded letters to
Bombay (which we have seen and read) ; in Calcutta, peremptory
clamouring for seances more open to the public than was thought
advisable, was becoming with every day louder, and all his watchful
friends could do was to keep the curious mob at arm's length. They
have done well ; for that mob —which in many cases may include
so-called ladies and gentlemen —would have surely brought in with
the tide Calcutta Lankesters, Dr. Beards, and other like benefactors
of
"
deluded
"
humanity. Therefore, for Mr. Eglinton 's sake, we
x
322 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
are glad he has left just at the right time. No greater misfortune
could have befallen the Theosophical Society, and with it Spirit
ualism, in the present psychologically undeveloped state of mind
of the Anglo-Indian Society, were its ignorant, but would-be-all-wise
areopagus to take it into its clever head that a medium was exposed,
when defado he would be perhaps only suspected, and very unjustly
too. Sad experience has taught us in the past that it is not sufficient
that a medium should be all that is honest and fair, but that he had
yet to so appear. The supposed cheating of Dr. Slade owing to the
undoubted one of Mr. Lankester and Co. has now crystalized itself
in India into an axiomatic truth. The fact that the great American
medium, has never yet been proved guilty on any incontrovertible
testimony, disappears from the memory of the scoffer, the fool and
the sceptic, to leave instead but the one vivid recollection—that of
his unjust trial and disgraceful sentence in London.
Alive to the above, we would never advise a professional medium,
unless he is a coarse-fibred charlatan, to bring to India his
"
angel-
guides." No gentleman ought to ever run such a risk. Yet we must
say that in the case in hand the loss is decidedly India's, and not
Mr. Eglinton's. Some hope to see him back in June, but we doubt
whether it will be so. Many will be those who will regret his de
parture, and the opportunities lost unless he returns. But it is too
late in the day for useless regrets. If his friends are really worthy of
that name, and if they are anxious to show themselves above mere
phenomena-hunters, who regard the medium in no better light than
an instrument they have hired at so much per hour, let them now
use their influence to get Mr. Eglinton into a position which would
place him above every risk and peril of professional mediumship.
Among his proselytes we have heard of many an Honourable, and
of more than one official in high and influential position, for whom
it would be an easy task to undertake.—It now remains to be seen
whether any one of them will lift up a finger for the sake of Science
Truth and Fact.
MILK FOR BABES AND STRONG MEAT FOR MEN
[The Ttieosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), Supplement, April, 1882, p. 5.]
When the great poet and writer, Coleridge, tried to establish his
Watchman —a periodical in prose and verse, intended to advocate
liberal opinions—owing partly to its too learned and philosophical
contents, and partly to the fact that its views were not those which
its supporters had expected, the Watchman was dropped at the tenth
number. Without presuming to compare, in any way, our humble
MILK FOR BABES AND STRONG MEAT FOR MEN 323
work and ability to those of the most versatile genius of England,
we may yet remark that, luckier than the poet, inasmuch as we had
not yet to drop our publication, nevertheless we are very often
threatened to lose subscribers on the ground that the journal is too
profound for them to understand, and its matter too abstruse for
the general reader. The objection is an unreasonable one, since for
one metaphysical article there are ten, which are quite understand
able by any one of general knowledge, and we often publish papers,
which, as far even as non-specialists are concerned, are likely to
awaken their interest, if not to entirely meet their approbation.
Thus, since the first appearance of The Theosophist, we had to labour
under a variety of difficulties in order to please all our readers.
Some wanted it less philosophical ; others clamoured for more
metaphysics ; many took exception to the spiritualistic or phe
nomenal element in it ; while still more complained of being unable
to come to a definite conclusion in regard to the
"
beliefs "and
"
creed of the Theosophical Society," whose organ it was. All this
is, as it should be ; the various complaints being a perfect test that
our journal has hitherto carried out faithfully its original pro
gramme : namely, an impartial hearing to all ; no dogmatism or
sectarianism ; but a constant and patient work of investigation
into, and comparing notes with all and every claim, which is held
in common by either small or large bodies of our fellow-men. That
these claims, once laid down, were not always followed by adequate
explanations, and sometimes failed entirely in giving their raison
d'etre, is no fault of ours, and no one could reasonably take us to
task for it. It certainly is not our province —even though we do
defend the right of every man to hold to his particular view or views
—to explain, least of all to support the views so expressed. In the
first place, it would necessitate a universal knowledge of things—an
omniscience we were never so foolish and conceited as to lay claim
to ; and secondly, even admitting the capability of the editor, in a
few cases, to express her opinion thereon, the explanation would
prove worthless, since passing but through one side of the lens of our
personal opinion —it would naturally modify the whole aspect of
the thing. Having first of all to satisfy the
"
thousand and one
"
creeds, beliefs and views of the members of the Society, who belong
to the greatest variety of creeds, beliefs and views, The Theosophist
has to make, as far as it can, room for all, and having done so, to
remain as impartial as possible under the circumstances. So narrow-
minded and bigoted is the majority of the public that the person,
liberal enough to afford to his brother and fellow-man the oppor
tunity he loudly exacts for himself, is a rata avis indeed. Our
Journal—we say so with a just pride—is the only one in the whole
world, which offers such opportunities to the adherents of every
324 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
religion and philosophical system, or even ideas. It is for them to
make the best of the chance so offered, and we can do no more.
We draw the attention of our members to a new publication just
out —a small pamphlet reprinted from the Missionary Dhyanodaya,
and headed Review of a Report of the Public Anniversary of the Theo-
sophical Society held in Bombay on January, 12, 1882. That our
friends, the padris, are anxious to spread this newly published mis
representation of what was said during the Public Anniversary, is
evident, since every one is invited to get copies of this pamphlet on
application to the Anglo- Vernacular Press in Bombay. We join our
voice to that of our well-wishers ; we cordially advise every one who
reads The Theosophist, and the Subodha Patrika (see December 4,
1881) to secure a copy of the precious pamphlet, as therein he will
find once more how unreliable, cunning and shameless are some
missionary organs, and their supporters. One of them, the Satthia-
vartamans starts a falsehood in October or so. It is to the effect
that, when the cocoanut was planted by our President in the Sivite
temple at Tinnevelly,
" a few days after, when the native com
munity began to take in the situation, the cocoanut had to be pulled
up, and the temple had to be purified of Theosophy and Colonel
Olcott
"—a lie from first to last. —The statement was contradicted,
disproved, and shown what it was —a gratuitous calumny —on
December 4 in The Theosophist and, yet, two months later, the
editor of Dhyanodaya not only republishes and gives it a wide
circulation, but actually enquires in it with a superb contempt for
truthfulness, how it is that the President of our Society did not
mention the fact, in his Lecture of January 12th !
"
He must have
known the final act in that comedy, and it strikes us as exceedingly
disingenuous that he should have spoken only of the first act and
not of the finale
"—the pamphlet remarks. How this observation
will strike every honest reader —whether Christian or heathen —
acquainted with the affair, need not be enlarged upon here. An
epithet ready to characterize such a policy, will not fail to escape
the reader's lips as soon as he reads the above Jesuitical observation.
Again, the writer of the pamphlet catching at a straw, would
make his readers believe that the Society, or rather
"
Theosophy,"
is trying to make real the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God (! !) the
"
sum of the religious opinion of the Society," and is, therefore,
"
but what Christianity itself teaches." Needless to say that the
"
Society," as a body, neither teaches, nor "tries to make real
"
anything of the kind. This expression, moreover, found no utter
ance during the meeting of the 12th of January ; and neither Colonel
Olcott, nor Mr. Mirza, having ever announced anything of the sort,
THE PHILOSOPHIC INQUIRER 325
it falls to the ground and discovers in itself another untruth. Nor
is the substance of what Mr. Mirza said on that day in Framjee Hall,
to be understood to mean
"
Anything —true or false —anything but
Christianity." Speaking for the Mahomedan section of our Society,
not for the whole Body, what he said was :
"
We decline to admit
the second god which the Christians would force on us. . . . We
refuse to accept the Demiurge Jehovah, the tribal deity of an obscure
Shemite tribe, in preference to the Mahomedan
'
Allah,' the Primeval
Deity. . . . We refuse to accept semi-darkness instead of such light,
perfect or imperfect, as we may severally have. ..." We invite the
readers of the Dhydnodaya pamphlet to read also the pamphlet (now
being distributed gratis to the amount of 5,000 copies by our Bombay
Society),
"
The Whole Truth about the Theosophical Society and
its Founders," and the Report of the Society with Mr. Mirza 's speech
in it—and compare. Such a deliberate misstatement of facts and
the assumption of that which is known to be false, by the writer, is
utterly contemptible. The motto of the sons of Loyola to the effect
that
"
the end justifies the means
"
has become that of the Protestant
missionaries ; and they have no more the right to thrust it into the
teeth of the Jesuits. Applying to the truth and facts of the Dhya
nodaya and other padris, the words which concluded Mr. Mirza's
speech in reference to Christianity, we now say :
" We will not
have them back torn, twisted, and defiled. Take them away I
"
THE PHILOSOPHIC INQUIRER
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), April, 1882, Supplement,
PP- 5-6 ]
The Philosophic Inquirer, of Madras, a weekly Anglo-Tamil
Free-thought Journal, has sent us its issue of March 19 with two
editorials, and an article in it for re-publication. We think it but
fair to our brave Madras colleague, to help him to circulate the truth
about that most disagreeable person, —the perstreperous and perspir-
ative orator flung to us over the Atlantic by the Bostonians, who
had enough of him. Unless we do so, and, by helping the fearless
little Dravidian champion help truth to come to light, very soon all
America and Europe would be deluged with missionary tracts
spreading broadcast his shameless falsehoods, and still falser reports
about his imaginary triumphs in India. It is not because we would
avenge our own wrongs —as, on the whole, that poor J. Cook has done
us more good than harm—but, as it is useless to expect the so-styled
respectable secular Anglo-Indian papers —the religious organs being
out of question —to come out with a true account of anything that is
likely to be distasteful to some of their subscribers, we range our
326 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
selves —as we always do —on the side of the minority and of the
weakest. With the exception of the Pioneer and the Bombay Gazette,
no other English paper in India we know of, however much itself
"
free-thinking
"
(sub rosa, of course), has hitherto had the courage
to pronounce Mr. Cook what he really is—a brutal, coarse, and
vulgar lecturer. Therefore, we gladly make room in our Journal for
the honest, though rather too outspoken editorials of our esteemed
colleague of Madras. May his subscribers increase.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY AND SWAMI
DAYANAND
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 7 (31), Supplement, April, 1882, p. 8.J
Owing to misrepresentations and consequent misunderstandings
caused by our mutual ignorance of each other's language, the learned
Pandit Dayanand Saraswati was prevailed upon, by our enemies,
to deliver a public lecture denouncing us personally and our Society
collectively, without even giving us any notice of his intentions. In
addition to this, he caused his statements to be printed, accusing us
of having
"
sold
" him and of having been unfaithful to our promises.
He charges the Founders of the Theosophical Society with having
first believed in the Ishwar preached by him ; acknowledging him
(the Pandit) as their spiritual guide ; and with having subsequently
become Buddhists and—finally Zoroastrians ! ! !
Such extraordinary accusations need no comment. The Founders
never believed in Ishwar as a personal god ; they are Buddhists for
many years and were so long before they knew of Swami or even
before his Arya Samaj had come into existence ; and—he knew all
this well. We had accepted and formed an alliance with him, not
for his religious doctrines, but, because —believing him able to teach
our members what we thought he knew far better than we did (since
he was a Brahmin Yogi for eight years), namely, Yog Vidya, —we
had hoped to secure for our Society perfect instruction in the ancient
Brahminical esoteric doctrine. If any one was "sold," it was the
Founders, not the esteemed Swami. For reasons best known to him
self, however, while telling us privately that Yog Vidya must not
be taught promiscuously as it was a sacred mystery, he laughed at
the Spiritualists, denounced every spiritual and occult phenomenon
as a tamasha, a juggling trick, and pooh-poohed publicly that which
we all know to be undoubted and genuine facts, capable of demon
stration and verification. Thus we were laid under the necessity of
accepting one of these two conclusions : either
(1)
he did not himself
know practical Yoga
;
or (2) he had determined to keep
it
secret
from the present generation. As we cannot persuade ourselves to
A "
LIGHT "
SHINING IN DARKNESS
believe the former, we shall submit to the latter alternative. Hence
forth we will be content with our Arhat or Buddhist esotericism.
Well, things have now gone too far to be mended. We had been
repeatedly warned by the orthodox Pandits as to the Swami's true
character, but —did not heed them. Though we never agreed with
his teachings from the very beginning, we have yet been faithful
and true to him for three long years. We respected him as a great
Sanskrit scholar and a useful Reformer ; and, notwithstanding the
difference in our religious opinions, we have supported him through
thick and thin. We regret to be unable to record as much of him.
As a consequence of all this, we declare the alliance between the
Theosophical Society and the Arya Samaj broken. Not for all the
alliances in the world shall we renounce what we consider to be The
Truth —or pretend belief in that which we know to be False.
A " LIGHT "
SHINING IN DARKNESS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, pp. 191-192.]
Our respected contemporary, Light, catches at an expression in
a recent letter, from one of the Secretaries of our Society, to its
Editor, transmitting a copy of a Bombay paper for his information,
and lectures us in a fatherly way upon our bitterness towards
Christianity. In a circular letter, addressed, by order of our Society's
Council, to several Spiritualistic newspapers, a loose expression was
used by the writer —a Hindu, —namely,
"
Christianity," instead of
"
dogmatic or exoteric Christianity," which would have been better.
This omission of adjectives is made the occasion for a severe admoni
tion. Well, had a Christian, in writing to Light, said that it seemed
a pity that Western Spiritualists could not . . . realize that they (the
Christians) are their natural allies against
" orthodox Buddhism or
Brahmanism, or any other heathenism
"—we doubt whether the
expression would have provoked such rebuke. Our severe critic
dislikes the idea that men of the Rev. Cook stamp should be taken
as representatives of that religion.
"
Men of this type," he says,
"do no injury except to the cause which they may elect for the
moment to advocate. The only surprising thing is that so discerning
a man as Epes Sargent should have taken any trouble about him.
Colonel Olcott says that he is going to answer him, which, on the
whole, is a pity. Such persons live and gain notoriety by misrepre
senting the answers of those who are indiscreet enough to notice
them." This is very sensible as a generalisation, but scarcely applies
to the present case. Mr. Cook had been not only adopted as the
champion of Christianity, but heralded as such throughout all India
328 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
and Ceylon ; his lectures were looked for as the long-expected death-
stroke to Hinduism and kindred superstitions ; the Christian com
munity turned out en masse to hear him ; eminently respectable
Anglo-Indian officials served as his Chairman ; and his coarse and
false diatribes against the Theosophical Society and its Founders
were applauded vociferously by his Christian friends. If we had
kept silence, we should have done great injury to our standing
throughout Asia, and the imploring appeal of the Rev. Spaar to
God to send the roaring and plank-crushing Cook to shut our mouths
would have been regarded as answered. Another reason why we
could not treat this contemptible coward with the scornful silence
he deserved, was that he laid his impious hand upon the religions
of our Asiatic brothers, talked of having the Government force
Christianity upon the pupils in the Government schools ; and used
the strongest expressions to signify his personal loathing for the
Vedas and other Asiatic sacred books. This was so gross an insult
to the feelings of people whose interests are our interests, whose
cause is our cause, that we took up the challenge on their behalf
quite as much as our own. And now let this wretched agitator pass
out into the oblivion he deserves.
One word in this connection must be said. We know quite as well
as Light that, in point of fact, the Cooks and Talmadges of Christen
dom do not represent the sweet doctrine of the Master they audaciously
pretend to follow. If our contemporary will honour us by reading
the preface to the second volume of Isis Unveiled, he will see our
real sentiment expressed upon this point. We know hundreds, no
doubt, of men and women whose lovely lives reflect a charming
beauty upon their professed faith. But these no more represent
the average —or what may be called the practical, executive and real
Christianity —than an Averroes or a Djellal-Eddeen reflects the tone
of executive and popular Mohammedanism. If our contemporary
were to put his fingers in the missionary vice along with ours, he
would know how it was himself, and perhaps not lecture us in so
paternal a tone. The test of Philosophy is always best made under
circumstances which
"
try men's souls
" : one can be charmingly
serene when far away from the field of battle. Let any one, who
aspires to the martyr's crown, come to India and Ceylon, and help
us in trying to establish a society on the basis of Tolerance and
Brotherhood. He would then find of what stuff the average Christian
is made, and might well be pardoned
if,
in the rush of his righteous
indignation, he should even talk as though
a
religion that had
hatched such vermin and begotten
a
Torquemada, were itself an
enemy of the whole human family. Certainly
it
is
not that, and
most assuredly
it
is
far better than the general run of its professors.
We do accept Christians as members of our Society, and, in fact,
a
FOOTNOTES TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRIT 329
Christian clergyman was one of its Founders. We do believe that a
Christian is as much entitled—though no more entitled —to the
undisturbed enjoyment of his belief, as any other ; and, as Colonel
Olcott very emphatically said in his address at our recent Anniversary
Meeting at Bombay —"
From the day when the Christians will live
up to their so-called
'
Golden Rule ..." you will never hear a word
spoken or see a line written by us against the missionaries of their
religion." We do not need any prophet to tell us that we are
getting no more than was in the contract ; and that theoretically
we have no right to even wince when the missionary party call us
adventurers, liars, and all that sort of thing. We try to be humble,
but our humanity is volcanic and rebellious ; still, we are not without
hope that, in time, we may be able to rather enjoy a run through the
"
upper and nether millstones
" of the Padris. Meanwhile, we implore
our equanimous friend of Light, who holds the torch amid the London
fogs, to remember that Shakespeare wrote :
" Let the galled jade wince an't will,
Our withers are unwrung
"
—and draw the obvious moral therefrom.
Our circular letter was written in the most friendly spirit. In
our innocence, we had believed that we were doing our duty in
warning the Spiritualists of the vilifications poured on their and our
heads by a common enemy —the sophomoric Cook who was shouting
through India as a Christian champion. We did not even dream that
our letter would have provoked such a very unfriendly answer.
To one portion of that answer particularly we must positively take
exception. What we said seven years ago in regard to Spiritualism,
we say now. We never described Spiritualism
"
in terms of almost
unqualified reprobation," nor, are we likely to modify our terms even
temporarily on
"
remonstrance." But we always regarded medium-
ship as a peril. Apart from this, it is all well and good. Our alliance
and friendly overtures may not be needed, but why break chairs
over our heads ?
FOOTNOTES TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRIT
The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, pp. 192-196.]
[The article is a review by Subba Row of William Oxley's work
The Philosophy of Spirit, which the reviewer examines
" from the
Esoteric and Brahmanical Standpoint." H. P. B. has appended
footnotes to certain sentences or words of the text.]
330 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
[Manwantara]
The period of Regeneration, or the active life of the universe
between two Pralayas or universal Destructions : the former being
called the
"
day
"
and the latter the
"
night
"
of Brahma.
[Yaksha]
The earth-spirit or Gnome.
[Gandharva]
Akin to the Christian cherub or singing seraph. There are, says
Atharva Veda (xi, 5, 2), 6333 Gandharvas in their Loka.
[Ordinary initiate]
An initiate of the preliminary degrees.
[Ahamattna]
The
" I am, That I am
" of the Biblical Jehovah, the
" I am who
I am," or
" Mazdao
"
of Ahuramazda in the Zend Avesta, etc.
All these are names for the 7th principle in man.
[ Krishna . . . speaks of
" Adi-Buddha
"—the state or condition
represented by Pranava —in the succeeding verses.]
Hence the great veneration of the Buddhists for Bhagavatgita.
[". ... he speaks of Adi-Buddha, as if it were merely a state or
condition."]
" Adi-Buddha
" creates the four celestial Buddhas or
"
Dhyans,"
in our esoteric philosophy. It is but the gross misinterpretation of
European Orientalists, entirely ignorant of the Arhat-doctrines,
that gave birth to the absurd idea that the Lord Gautama Buddha
is alleged to have created the five Dhyan or celestial Buddhas.
Adi-Buddha, or, in one sense, Nirvana, "
creating
"
the four Buddhas
or degrees of perfection —is pregnant with meaning to him who has
studied even the fundamental principles of the Brahmanical and
Arhat esoteric doctrines.
[" The ancient Rishis of Aryavarta have taken considerable pains
to impress upon the minds of their followers that the hmnan spirit
(7th principle) has a dignity, power and sacredness which cannot be
claimed by any other God, Deva or angel of the Hindu Pantheon."]
In view of this, Gautama Buddha, after his initiation into the
mysteries by the old Brahman, His Guru, renouncing gods, Devas
and personal deity, feeling that the path to salvation lay not in vain
glorious dogmas, and the recognition of a deity outside of oneself,
renounced every form of theism and—became Buddha, the one
enlightened.
" Aham eva param Brahma," I am myself a Brahma
(a god), is the motto of every Initiate.
FOOTNOTE TO " MEDIUMS AND YOGIS "
33I
['
'
Vyasa does not exactly mean a recorder ; but . . . one who
expands or amplifies."]
In no case can the term be translated as
" Recorder," we should
say. Rather a
" Revealer," who explains the mysteries to the neo
phyte or candidate for initiation by expanding and amplifying to
him the meaning.
[" This term [Fyasa] was applied to the Highest Guru in India in
ancient time ; and the author will be able to find in the Linga Purana
that the author of the Mahabharata was the 28th Vyasa in the order of
succession. I shall not now attempt to explain the real meaning of
the 28 incarnations therein mentioned. . . ."]
To one, who has even a vague notion how the mysteries of old were
conducted, and of the present Arhat system in Tibet vaguely termed
the
"
Re-incarnation System
"
of the Dalai-Lamas, the meaning
will be clear. The chief Hierophant who imparted the
" word
"
to
his successor had to die bodily. Even Moses dies after having laid
his hands upon Joshua, who thus became "full of the spirit of wisdom
of Moses," and —it is the
"
Lord
"
who is said to have buried him.
The reason why
"
no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day,"
is plain to an Occultist who knows anything of the supreme initiation.
There cannot be two
"
Highest
"
Gurus or Hierophants on earth,
living at the same time.
[Mahattnas]
"
Grand Souls
"
in literal translation ; a name given to the great
adepts.
FOOTNOTE TO "
MEDIUMS AND YOGIS
"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, pp. 197-198.]
[The author of this article, in the course of his explanation of the
difference between yogis and mediums, says : "As the magnetic
power is directed to any particular faculty, so that faculty at once
forms a direct line of communication with the spirit, which, receiv
ing the impressions, conveys them back to the physical body."
To this H. P. Blavatsky remarks :]
Sixth principle —spiritual soul.
In the normal or natural state, the sensations are transmitted from
the lowest physical to the highest spiritual body, i.e., from the first
to the 6th principle (the 7th being no organized or conditioned body,
but an infinite, hence unconditioned principle or state), the faculties
of each body having to awaken the faculties of the next higher one,
to transmit the message in succession, until they reach the last, when,
having received the impression, the latter (the spiritual soul) sends it
332 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
back in an inverse order to the body. Hence the faculties of some of
the
"
bodies
"
(we use this word for want of a better term) being less
developed, they fail to transmit the message correctly to the highest
principle, and thus also fail to produce the right impression upon
the physical senses, as a telegram may have started from the place
of its destination faultless, and have been bungled up and misin
terpreted by the telegraph operator at some intermediate station.
This is why some people, otherwise endowed with great intellectual
powers and perceptive faculties, are often utterly unable to appre
ciate—say, the beauties of nature, or some particular moral quality ;
as, however perfect their physical intellect, —unless the original,
material or rough physical impression conveyed has passed in a
circuit through the sieve of every
"
principle
"— (from i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
up to 7, and down again from 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, to No. 1)
—and that
every
"
sieve
"
is in good order, —the spiritual perception will always
be imperfect. The Yogi, who, by a constant training and incessant
watchfulness, keeps his septenary instrument in good tune and
whose spirit has obtained a perfect control over all, can, at will, and
by paralysing the functions of the four intermediate principles,
communicate from body to spirit and vice versa—direct.
COMMENT ON
"MORE ANECDOTES OF HASSAN KHAN DJINNI"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, pp. 199-200.]
[Several accounts are given of the phenomenal feats of the re
markable Mohammedan sorcerer, Hassan Khan, nicknamed
"
Djinni
"
from his alleged power over some of the Elemental Spirits, which go
under that name among the Mohammedans. These testimonies were
collected by Colonel Olcott while on a visit to Lucknow. The stories
recount various phenomena produced by Hassan Khan, such as the
falling of bricks and sand-showers. To this H. P. B. remarks :]
This highly interesting particular should recall to the reader the
article on
" Stone-Showers
" which appeared in The Theosophist
for August, 1881. In that connection we protested against the
theory of the Spiritualists that this class of phenomena are due to
the agency of disembodied human spirits, and suggested that they
went to prove the existence of prankish nature-elementals. The
Djinnat or Djinns of the Oriental demonology are of this class, as
the reader of the Arabian Nights will remember. They can be made
subservient to one who has learned the secret of their subjugation
by occult means. Only those who would believe that we consider
them as beings of any sort—least of all intelligent beings —will be
very much mistaken.
PSYCHE 333
FOOTNOTE TO
"
THEOSOPHY DURING THE FIRST
PHASE OF MODERN PHILOSOPHY "
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, pp. 202-203.]
[Speaking of the triune nature of man, the writer explains the
relation between spirit, soul, and body, and says that
"
man, too,
has the trinity within himself." To this H. P. B. remarks that :]
The sez>ew-knotted bamboo-staff of the Yogee is also a
"
trinity,"
since, like everything else, it has two poles or ends and one middle
part, yet the stick is a unity, so is matter, whether we call its upper
subjective end spirit or its lower end —crystalized spirit.
PSYCHE
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, p. 211.]
Our old friend, The Spiritualist, died of inanition, but has resur
rected under the Hellenic alias of Psyche. In short, it might be said
that, out of the inanimate corpse of Mr. Harrison's first love, has
sprung a new soul to woo the fickle public back to its allegiance.
The Spiritualist, on the whole, treated us harshly, too often laying
the truncheon over our editorial head. We wanted to please it, but
could not ; and, just when things were seemingly at the worst, our
censor died the journalistic death, and cut off forever our chance
for a good place in its books. We may now start afresh and, warned
by experience, must deport ourselves so as to command the amity,
if not the alliance, of Psyche. The new journal is handsomely printed
on good paper, and, with its vermilion column-rules and initials,
makes a gay, not to say jaunty, appearance for an organ of tran
scendental science. The contents of the first number are interesting,
a paper on the Sphygmographic (pulse-measuring) Experiments of
Dr. Purdon on
"
spiritual mediums
"
leading us decidedly in the
right direction. Mediumship, in truth, lacks nothing so much as
thorough scientific investigation ; for, until the pathological and
psychical conditions of the medium are perfectly known, Spiritualists
will not be in a way to know what may or may not be ascribed to
intra-corporeal agency, in the phenomena of the seance-room.
Psyche starts with our good wishes for its prosperity.
334 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
PERT QUESTIONS AND PLAIN ANSWERS
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 8 (32), May, 1882, Supplement,
pp. 5-6.]
How little the
"
beliefs and creeds
"
of the Theosophical Society —
which has no belief or creed —are understood by the average public
in India after three years of constant explanations, may be inferred
by the letter that follows. Crude and childish as it is, yet, finding in
it the echo of the public bigotry and blindness to facts and practical
proofs, we give it room in our Supplement. Unless we are greatly
mistaken, it was written under the direct inspiration of a Protestant
missionary, than which there is not a more bigoted or more in
tolerant one the world over.
[Then follows the letter above mentioned. The sentences to which
H. P. B. replied in footnotes appear below in small type, immediately
followed by her comments.]
Is
"
Theosophy
" a religion, or a belief ? Does the Theosophical
Society propagate any kind of belief (directly or indirectly) ?
Useless to repeat that which was asserted over and over again—
namely that the Theosophical Society, as a body, has no religion.
The Theosophical Society comprises three sections, and each
section comprises three classes. I ask whether there is a single
member recognized as of the first or second section who is permitted
(according to the rules of those sections) to retain his orthodox
religious views ?
Most undoubtedly every one of them is allowed to do so if he
likes ; but whether, after learning the truth, he will do so and
persist in his dogmatic views, is another question.
" Occultism
"
disproves the truth of miracles (superhuman
powers).
Most undoubtedly it does. It rejects the very idea of there being
anything supernatural (i.e., above, below, or outside of nature) in
this infinite Universe—as a stupendous fallacy.
" Occultism," then, affects all the popular faiths of this planet,
which claim to be of divine origin (i.e., revealed by God to man
miraculously through some prophet).
To
" claim
"
is one thing, and
"
to be
"—and prove it—is quite
another.
In short "Occultism" teaches that Paul, Moses, Confucius,
Mahomet, Zoroaster, and Buddha were liars and deceivers when
they said that they received Divine inspirations.
PERT QUESTIONS AND PLAIN ANSWERS 335
We would advise our young friend to study a subject before he
presumes to speak of it. Buddha never claimed to have received
"
Divine Inspiration," since Buddha rejected the very idea of a god,
whether personal, or impersonal. Therefore, Occultism does not
teach that he was a
" liar," nor does it give that abusive epithet—so
generously bestowed by the Christian padris on all and every other
prophet but their own —any more to Moses, than to Mahomet, or
Zoroaster, least of all to Confucius, since, no more than Gautama
Buddha, has that great sage ever claimed
" divine
"
inspiration.
"
Senex
"
goes on to say that
"
Theosophy
" is a speculation of
certain visionaries who pretend to be able to hold direct com
munication with the Deity and to direct and combat the influence
of the Deity (the Supreme
"
Light ") by the medium of Genii,
(spirits), or demons, or by the agency of stars or fluids (as elec
tricity).
If our correspondent is unable to appreciate journalistic humour
and wit, and takes the definition copied out by
"
Senex
"
from
Webster's Dictionary as Gospel Truth, we cannot help him to more
intuitive perceptions than he is endowed with.
I see no difference between
"
Occultism
" of the Theosophists and
"
Spiritualism
" as professed by Zollner, Mrs. Hauffe, Eglinton,
Slade, and a score of other mediums in the United States.
This is to be deplored, but so long as our correspondent will rush
into print to discuss subjects he knows nothing about, he is sure to
commit such ridiculous blunders.
Bishop Sargent informs us that the king-cocoanut, planted by
Colonel Olcott and the Tinnevelly Brothers in the temple-yard of
the Great Pagoda of Tinnevelly, was soon after removed, and that
the whole temple-yard had to be ceremonially purified of the con
tamination it had thus contracted by the intrusion of the foreigner.
Which only proves that Bishop Sargent also speaks of what he
knows nothing about, or gladly repeats unproved missionary
calumnies. (See the remarks under the heading
" Milk for Babes
and Strong Meat for Men
"
[page 322 of this volume]).
Yet Colonel Olcott makes no mention of this in his address at the
Framjee Cowasjee Institute.
Pleading guilty to never reading or paying attention to mis
sionary or other pious organs, and not being endowed with omni
scient clairvoyance to help him to follow the constant intrigues of
their editors and their inventions against our Society and its
Founders, Colonel Olcott could not
" mention
" that which he was
not aware of, namely that, after the calumny had been well spread
by our meek and humble missionaries and as effectively shown to
336 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
be false, no less a personage than a
"
Bishop
"
would take it up, and
circulate what he knew was a malicious falsehood.
HINDU THEISM
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 9 (33), June, 1882, pp. 215-216.]
Old readers will recollect our desire, long ago expressed, that
some respectable Brahmo would undertake, in these columns, a
candid exposition of the views of his Samaj. Friends, in both Europe
and America, have asked for some authoritative statement of
Brahmoism, that the West might intelligently study the present
drift of Asiatic thought in the channel opened, half a century ago
(a.d. 1830), by the religious fervour and bright genius of Ram
Mohan Roy. Their desire, and ours, is at last gratified. In the
present number is printed the first instalment of a discourse upon
" Hindu Theism," by a man whose spotless private character and
pious sincerity have won the respect and confidence of multitudes of
his countrymen, even of those who do not at all sympathize with his
views, or his sect's, upon religious questions. The Brahmic Church
of India was, as is known, founded by the late Rajah Ram Mohan
Roy on the lines of a pure Theism, though not announced as a sect.
No country can boast a purer or holier son than was this Indian
reformer. The Raja died in England in 1831, and, for the next few
years, his movement languished under the leadership of a very
noble-hearted man, Pandit Ramchandra Vidyabagish. In 1838, the
leadership fell into the hands of Babu Debendra Nath Tagore, a
Bengali gentleman of high family, and of a sweetness of character
and loftiness of aim equal to that of the late Raja. In every
respect he was worthy to wear the mantle of the Founder and able
to take upon himself the chief burden of the herculean work he
had begun. Of the bright minds who clustered about them, the
most conspicious and promising were Babus, Raj Narain Bose,
Keshab Chander Sen, and Sivanath Shastri. For years they
worked together for the common cause without discord, and the
Brahmic Church was a unit. But the infirmities of human nature
by degrees opened breaches which resulted in the setting up of
schismatic Samajis, and the primitive Brahmoism was first split
into two and, later, into three churches. The first and, as claimed,
original one is known as the Adi Brahmo Samaj, of which the now
venerable and always equally revered Babu Debendra Nath Tagore
is theoretically, but Babu Raj Narain Bose practically —owing to the
retirement of the former to a life of religious seclusion at Mussooree
—the chief. The latter gentleman may also be almost said to be in
retirement, since he lives at Deoghur, Bengal, an almost exclusively
HINDU THEISM 337
contemplative life. The second Samaj comprises a small group
which has followed the lead of Babu Keshab Chander Sen out of his
" Brahmo Samaj of India
"—as his first schism was called —down
the slippery road to the quagmire of Infallibility, Direct Revelation,
and Apostolic Succession, where he has planted the gaudy silken flag
of his New Dispensation, beside the pontifical banner of the Pope
of Rome. At Calcutta, we were told that of actual disciples he can
scarcely count more than fifty-five, though his marvellous eloquence
always commands large audiences of interested hearers. It was
also the unanimous testimony to us of his friends, as well as foes,
that Babu Keshab's influence is rapidly dying out, and that, after
his death, not even the marked ability of his cousin and chief assist
ant, Babu Protab Chandra Mozumdar, is likely to hold the Samaj
together. The third branch of the original Brahmo Samaj of Ram
Mohan Roy is called the Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, and headed by
Pandit Sivanath Shastri, who is a gentleman of unblemished char
acter, modest disposition, a well-read Sanskritist, and a good,
though not exceptional, orator.
We have had quite recently the great pleasure of reading a
pamphlet by Pandit Sivanath Shastri, in which the history of the
Brahmic movement is clearly and ably sketched, and which the
reader would do well to procure from the author. Our Western
friends, especially who have such incorrect ideas of Babu Keshab's
character and relationship with contemporary Brahmoism, will be
startled and shocked to read Pandit Sivanath's judicially calm
analysis of the career of his quondam colleague towards the worst
abomination —from Ram Mohan Roy's point of view—of personal
leadership and reckless egoism. And one thing, as bad as bad can be,
is not given in this pamphlet, viz : that on the day of the last annual
celebration of an idolatrous festival at Calcutta, Babu Keshab
allowed his disciples to bathe his person, bedeck it with garlands,
and put him in a swing as the Hindus put their idols, and swing him
as though he were a divine being. Beyond this, there is scarcely
any extravagance of childish vanity to be guilty of. The intelligent
reader will easily deduce from it what fate is in store for this branch
of a once noble tree.
The discourse of Babu Raj Narain Bose, now to be given in these
columns, though delivered in Bengali in the year 1872, has never
until now appeared in an English dress. The learned and most
esteemed author has revised his translation and generously placed
it at our disposal. As the portions successively appear, they will
be put into type at the Samaj Press, in Bengal, and when our last
instalment is printed, the author will publish the entire lecture in
pamphlet form. The Adi Brahmo Samaj is nearest of the three to
being orthodox, and least revolutionary as regards Hinduism. Its
Y
338 THE COMPLETE WORKS OF H. P. BLAVATSKY
managers wisely keep a good deal of what is excellent in their national
religion, instead of flinging, so to say, the family treasures out of the
windows and clamouring for new lamps. They find Hinduism to
be a pure and essential Theism, and have laid down their new church
on that foundation. It is not our province to express an outside
opinion upon a subject whose exegesis, we conceive, should be left
to its own authorised teachers. The Theosophist was originally
announced as a tribune from which all religions might be expounded
by their best men ; and so it will ever be.
In conclusion, we must note the coincidence that, upon the very
heel of the Swami's defection, comes a most cordial greeting from
Babu Raj Narain Bose, leader of another Hindu society, and a man
whose approbation and friendship is worth having. In a letter
(of date April 3rd) to Colonel Olcott, he says :
" It is the marvel
of marvels that a stranger should come to India from the far, far
West to rouse her from the sleep of ages, and work as a Hindu with
Hindus for the regeneration of the Hindu nation. Had the system
of Purana writing been still in vogue, this strange event would have
been narrated in striking allegories I
"
"A FRIEND IN NEED, A FRIEND INDEED"
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 9 (33), June, 1882, p. 218.]
We copy the following letter from the Bombay Gazette of April 4th,
not for its bearing upon the recent "unpleasantness," but to
preserve, in our record, the evidence of an act of true unselfish loyalty
to the cause of Theosophy. The public position of the writer of the
letter might well have been made a pretext to keep silence —if
silence could, in any such case, be ever excusable. But chivalrous
natures like this do what is right first, and then only think what
expediency might have demanded. These are the men to make
a good cause succeed : the strength of our Society lies in their
allegiance.
On the day following the unexpected denunciation of us, at a public
lecture, by our ex-friend and ally —whom we had always in America,
England and India defended against his enemies —when, like Scapin
in the play, he, so to say, rolled us up in a sack and laid on lustily,
the Bombay Gazette, in a long editorial upon the unpleasant event,
innocently remarked :
"
The assurance that the Theosophists (read
" Colonel Olcott and Madame Blavatsky ") know nothing of occult
science is depressing. What will Mr. Sinnett say ? Was not his
valuable work on the
'
Occult World
'
founded wholly on the occult
information he obtained from them ?
"
THE MAGIC OF SCIENCE 339
The gentleman, so unexpectedly dragged into the treacherous
"
play," made at once the following answer :
[Follows Mr. A. P. Sinnett's letter, in which he defends the Theo-
sophical Society and its Founders, and vouches for the genuineness
of the occult phenomena that he had witnessed.]
THE MAGIC OF SCIENCE
[The Theosophist, Vol. Ill, No. 9 (33), June, 1882, pp. 222-223.]
An Anglo-Indian paper of Madras speaks thus of the telephone :
The wonders of science bid fair to grow more wonderful. The
latest addition, to the marvels of electricity, is a telephone which
makes a conversation distinctly audible even when it is not con
nected with any wire. All that is necessary is that this marvellous
instrument should be held within a few feet of the end of a wire
connected at its other end with a transmitter. Then, when the
ear is applied to the telephone, the words, which are being spoken
far away, instantly become audible, and, as if by magic, the
silent room is filled with the sound of distant voices. The fact
that the telephone can thus, without any immediate connection
with the electric wire, bring to life again, as it were, the waves
of sound which have died away into silence, is a remarkable one,
and seems to suggest that we are merely at the beginning of the
achievements of this marvellous little instrument. It ought
certainly, we should think, be easy for a person provided with
a telephone of this kind to hear a speaker at a much greater distance
in any public room than is possible now.
Were we to remark to this that there are other and still less
bulky and objective apparatuses in existence as yet unknown to
science, which enable a person to hear any speaker he likes to choose
and at any distance, and even to see him—the Madras Standard
would scoff at the idea. And yet, hardly ten years back, the bare
mention of the possibilities of the telephone and the phonograph—
both bringing back to life again
"
the waves of sound which have
died away into silence
"—would have been regarded as the fiction
of a lunatic !
INDEX
Absolute, Arhat and Aryan doctrines on
the, 220-30
Unconditioned, a fiction, 239
" Adept" a bogus, castigated, 73, 9a, 165 et
seq.
Adepts, can they live in society ?, 71
the Himalayan Brothers, 72
facts about, 74
Buddha the greatest of the, 75
do not guide the Theosophical Society, 81
alone possess real knowledge, 116
their teaching as to Spiritualism, 117
can control elementals and elementaries,
122
Hindus a minority among, 147
cannot be called Yogis, 147
and occult philosophy, 198
scientific knowledge of, 201
in retired spots in India, 259
Rosicrucian, 263
in Tibet prior to Buddhism, 272
Adeptship, conditions for acquiring, 76
self-abnegation smoothes the path to, 13s
characteristics of true, 286
Adi-Buddha, " creates
" the four celestial
Buddhas, 330
Azthrobacy, or levitation, explained, 281
Aga Khan, a remarkable man, 33
Alexander II, Cxar, significant numbers in
his life, 35
his assassination, 184
Anglo-Indian Press, The, and Theosophy, 49
Animals, possess consciousness, 102
Apocalypse, The, the Kabalistic book par
excellence, 34
Apollonius of Tyana, C. B. Waite on, 15
a historical character, 16
Apparitions, explained, 87, 132, 196
how materialised, 208-9, 251
Arago, on the word
" impossible," 49
Ararat, not the mountain so called, 42
Armageddon, the Druse belief as to, 23
misinterpreted by Christians and Jews, 26
a kind of purgatorial Elysium, 26
Arya Samaj, and the Theosophical Society,
147 et seq.
H. P. B. answers a member of, 149 et seq
comments on the, 306, 326
Asoha, his edicts on toleration, 277
Astral Body, its dissociation from the
physical after death, 87
or Ltnga-Sarira, 102
dies with physical body, 103
Linga-Sanra, Mayavi-Rupa, and Kama-
Rupa defined, 296-7.
Astral Light, or " Soul of Things," 119
signified by Virgo, 161
glimpses of, in concentration, 163
Astrology, its scope and limitations, 27
an exact science, 29
Kepler proficient in, 30
ana the Kabalah, 30
conjunctions of planets in history, 32, 33
the conjunction of 1881, 33
Austin, Mr. R. Barnes, H. P. B.'s reply to,
282
Automatic Writing, a case of, explained,
117 r t seq.
Avatarism, religions founded on, 90
Bellachini, S., the conjurer, his testimony as
to Spiritualist phenomena, 57
Bhon Religion, of Tibet, 226-7
Bhootan, the Dug-pa Lamaism of, 268, 273
Blavatsky, H. P., on charges against herself,
72
and Isis Unveiled, 80
not a medium, 81
her editorial principles, iji
comments on some slanders on herself, 187
answers The Statesman's article " An
Australian Blavatsky," 204
Letter to The Statesman and Friend of
India, 206
replies to charges in Anglo-Indian Press,
240 et seq.
letter of Mdlle N. A. Fadeyeff on, 244
certificate by Major-General Fadeyeff
establishing identity of, 245
Bodhisattwas, remain in existence for good
of mankind, 270
Boehme, Jacob, not an authority on spirits,
395
Bombay Gazette, The, and A. P. Sinnett, 338
Brahma, the day and night of, 78
distinct from Brahma, 230
Brahmo Samaj, The, history, schisms and
present position of, 336 et seq.
Britten, Mrs. Emma Han
aries, 253
336 et i
■dinge. on Element-
Brothers, The (see under Adepts)
Buddha, and Mercury-Hermes, 25
a Saviour indeed, 60
the greatest of the Adepts, 76
H. P. B. holds, in highest veneration, 152
alleged incarnations of, in Tibet, 267 et seq.
" Buddha and Early Buddhism " (Lillie),
quoted, 211
Buddhism, and Vedantism synonymous, 60
Mr. A. Lillie on, 210 et seq.
341
342 INDEX
and Spiritualism, 210 et seq.
of Tibet, 267 et seq.
and Christianity, relative tolerance of, 277
Buddhist, sects in Tibet, 227
monks, celibacy of, 265
morality, Bishop Bigandet on, 266
celibacy in Tibet, 272
Buddhists, the two founders of the T.S. are,
60
Butlerof, Professor, and Spiritualism, 55
" Catena of Buddhist Scriptures from the
Chinese, The
" (Beal), quoted, 228, 234
Ceylon, intellectual status of Buddhists in,
183
Chaldcean Book of Numbers, The, Jewish
Kabalah a disfigured version of, 75
Chaldaans, their chronology, 42
the man-fish of the, 43
China, obtained its system of theocracy
from Si-dzang (Tibet), 226
Christian, explanation of psychic pheno
mena, 81 et seq.
attitude to spiritualism, 173
Christians, and Freethinkers, 308, 318
and Theosophists, 318-19
Christianity, and Spiritualism, 31
Clairvoyance, uninitiated seers never see
quite correctly, 119
Codex Nasaraus, the most Kabalistic of
books, 159
its symbolism, 159
Conjunctions, of planets, 32, 33
Conjurers, their testimony as to reality of
Spiritualistic phenomena, 57, 259
Conscious Immortality, in good or evil, 96
Controversial Methods, H. P. B. describes
her, 294
Cook, Rev. J., H. P. B. replies to, 260
Creation, philosophical conception of, 193
et seq.
Cremation, its progress in Europe, 145
Criminals, often mediumistic, 141
Crookes, Professor William, and Spiritualism,
54
Cross, symbolism of the, 155
Cycle of Necessity, The, no planetary spirit
can avoid, 77
Cycles, the periodical recurrence of events, 34
Dancing, mystical, a hoary rite, 37
Dante, on soulless men, 102
Dayanand Saraswati, and the Theosophieal
Society. 147, 306, 326
his alleged heterodoxy, 164
Dead, The, offerings to, 238
Death, changes following, 103
the brain dies last, 131
what happens after, 131
by suicide, 138
by accident or violence, 139
by altruistic self-sacrifice, 139
Devachan, defined, 126
each spirit in, dreams its own dream, 127
Devil, The, belief in, in Christian lands, 176
Dialectical Society, The, its investigation of
Spiritualism, 54
Dreams, recurring, 234
prophetic, 233 et seq.
materialistic science and, 237-40
Druses, The, Laurence Oliphant on, 16
their ritual and dogmas secret, 17
their relation to the Lamas of Tibet, 17
their Okhal or spiritual teachers, 18
founded by Hamsa, 18
their religion a survival of the archaic
Wisdom- Religion, 20
their five
" messengers," 22
recognise no personal deity, 23
their intercourse with China, 23
Eglinton, William, an occult phenomenon
performed through, 122
successful seances at Calcutta, 319 et seq.
Eighth Sphere, depraved personalities go to
the, 144
Elementals, not " beings," 64
will live on earth, 77
future men, 134, 136
irresponsible, 137
and evolution, 202
and elementaries, 253
Elementaries (see also Shells), suicides
become, 41
or " shells
" of the dead, 105 et seq.
and elementals, 253
Endor , the Witch of, 88
" En Rapport," defined, 128
En-Soph, the Parabrahma of the Westerns,
153
Ether of space, images of beings and things
preserved in, 197
subjective photographs impressed on, 305
Eusebius, the Munchausen of the patristic
hierarchy, 16
Evil, spiritual, and its results, 96
Evolution, the theory of modern science,
partial and crude, 202
spiritual and physical, 203
Fadeyeff, MdUe N. A.
Blavatsky, 244
certificate estab-
Blavatsky,
letter on Madame
244
Fadeyeff, Major-General, certifi
lishing identity of Madame
Fish, The, in symbolism, 26
Five-pointed Star, The, in
"
H. P. B. on, 64
in ceremonial magic, 65
serves to concentrate the will, 67
represents the microcosm, 152
misconceptions corrected, 153
Fludd, Robert, on the return of spirits, 88
on Elementals, 169
Freemasonry, and the R.C. Church, 297 et seq.
God, is the Higher Self, 163
Guardian Angels, Christian and Spiritualist
beliefs about, 79
Gupta-Vidya, or magic, universal, 75
Himsa, founder of the Druses, 18
his spiritual titles, 18
Hare, Professor, on Spiritualism, 53
Hatha Yoga, limitations of, 281
Health, possible only with magnetic equili
brium in the body, 89
Hermetic Brethren, secrecy of the, 263
Higgins, Godfrey, on the secret doctrine in
Tibet, 24
INDEX 343
Hindu Pantheism, defended, 181
Hobilgans (see under Lamas)
Homoeopathy, opposed by orthodox science,
310 et seq.
Hue, The Abbi, quoted, 21
his intolerance, 21
Iamblichos, on spirits, 77
lncubi and Succubi, the spirits of sane
suicides, 140
India, geography of prehistoric, 227
adepts in retired places in, 259
" Indian Witness, The
" (Lucknow), mis
statements of, corrected, 314 et seq.
Initiation, trials of, to test moral strength, 66
the sanction to receive final, 73
Initiates (see also Adepts)
check each other's discoveries, 250
" Isis Unveiled," some criticisms of, an
swered, 80, 168
Jesuits, and Freemasonry, 302 et seq.
Jivatma, of the, 161
Jonah, identical with Oannes, 43
Kabalah, The, and astrology, 30
a Kabalist calculation, 35
Eliphas Levi a Kabalist, 40
Kabalist theory of post-mortem states, 41
Kabalistic magic, 65
Christian Kabalism but a fragment of
occult science, 75
Key to, lost by Western Kabalists, 91
Kama-Rupa, an apparition of the, explained,
87
the body of desire, 102
Karma, what, causes re-birth ? 143
its working, 144
Kcllar, H., the conjurer, his testimony as to
spiritualist phenomena, 259
Keshub Chunder Sen, founder of the " New
Dispensation," 37
his mischievous teachings, 90
Khelang, The Brotherhood of, a mysterious
community of Lamas, 17
Knowledge, what constitutes?, 114
real, can be acquired, 115
Kohn, Julius Q'J.K."), a self-styled
" adept," 73, 92
and The Spiritualist, 165 et seq.
H. P. B. replies to Mr. R. Barnes Austin's
advocacy of, 282 et seq.
reasons for not printing letter from, 289-90
Koot Hoomi Lai Singh, reference to, 73
and A. P. Sinnett, 81
seen by various witnesses, 165
seen by clairvoyants, 274
Lamas (see also Tibet)
their connection with the Druses, 17
the Brotherhood of Khelang, 17
significance of the word, 18
and the Abbe Huc, 21
the five Hobilgans, 23
the Shaberons one degree lower than the
Hobilgans, 23
selection of a new Dalai-Lama, 26
perfect, called Gods in Tibet, 146
yellow and red sects of, 267 et seq.
Layard, his excavations at Konyunjik, 43
Levi, &liphas, a great master of occult
sciences, 39
on after-death states, 41
his knowledge of Eastern secret frater
nities, 74
on Death and Satan, 91
on dreams and visions, 235
" Light," quoted, 189
on missionaries, 327
Linga-Sarira (see also Astral Body), or
Astral Body, dissolves at death, 296
Littri, M. P. E., his alleged death-bed con
version, 68
Magic, the five-pointed star in, 65
the great science, 75
Mahatmas (see under Adepts)
"M.A., Oxon" (Rev. Stainton Moses),
H. P. B.'s opinion of, 78
quoted, 206, 210
Maskclyne, J. N., the conjurer, and Spiri
tualism, 56
Masses, The, as ignorant now as 3000 years
ago, 183
Massey, Gerald, on elementals — H. P. B.'s
comments, 200
Materialisations, explained, 107, 209, 251
part played by the medium's Kama-rupain,
175
Matter, and spirit one and eternal, 78
Mediums, and terrestrial magnetism, 63
physical, have little or nothing to do with
spirits, 63
exposed to risk of corruption, 107, 110
trance-speeches of, explained, 109
automatic writing by, explained, 119
unreliable visions of, 184 et seq.
difficulties of honest, 321-2
pulse-measuring experiments on, 333
Mediumship, objections to, 136
grave dangers of, 141
contagious, 141
Memory, of past lives, 143
Mercury, and Buddha, 25
Mesmerism, dangers of, 89
Messengers, the five of the Druses compared
with the five chief Bodhisattwas, 22
Millenarians, and the second advent of
Christ, 52
Miracles, the Roman Catholic view of,
criticised, 81
alleged, at Llanthony Abbey, 180
and occult phenomena, 320
Missionaries, slander the Theosophical
Society, 59
in trouble in Ceylon, 256
H. P. B. replies to Rev. J. Cook, 260
" Light " and, 327
" Missionary Dhydnodaya," review of a
Report of the Theosophical Society, 324
Monotheism, not involved in belief in spirits,
83
Mysteries, the true, receding from Western
Candidates, 286
reincarnations of hicrophants in the, 331
Necromancy, an evil science, 105
" New Dispensation," The, of Calcutta, 34
the Church of Babu K. C. Sen, 37
H. P. B. criticises, 69, 90
344 INDEX
Numbers, symbolism of, in Pythagoras and
the Kabalah, 30, 156
the year 1881, 32
666, the
" Number of the Beast," 34
in the life of Czar Alexander II, 35
Oannes, the man-fish, 27
John the Baptist and, 43
Obsession, a Catholic bishop on, 84
often the cause of crime, 141
Occult Knowledge, continuity of, 240-50
Occult Phenomena, the S.S. Vega letter, 121
at seances of W. Eglinton, 320
Occult Philosophy (see also Occultism),
masters of, 199
genius of, 202
and evolution, 202
Occultism, the one Universal Science, 76
an exact science, 135
based on innumerable observations, 135
Occultists, their view of
" spirits," 101, 104
on the constitution of man, 101
their definition of real knowledge, 114
view phenomena from behind the scenes,
121
Olcott, H. S., his good work in Ceylon, 264
Oliphant, Laurence, his Land of Gilead
reviewed, 16
Pantheism, Hindu, defended, 181
and science, 182 et seq.
Paracelsus, on man, 159
Pentagram, The (see under the Five-Pointed
Star)
Phenomena, abnormal, conditions necessary
for, 278
Photographs, spirit, 301 et seq.
Pierovsky, Sophie, misrepresented by trance-
medium, 184
" Pioneer, The," article on H. P. Blavatsky,
243
Planet, of matter and death the, 137
Planetary Spirits, cannot avoid the Cycle of
Necessity, 77
Plato, his philosophical method, 31
Porphyry, on the Pythagorean numbers, 30
Post-mortem states, Eliphas Levi on, 41
described, 103
Prajapatis, the nine, identical with the
Sephiroth, 162
Presentiments, explained, 14
Priestcraft, fosters superstition in all ages, 173
Psychic Phenomena, a warning explained, 16
public attitude toward, 43
comments on, 87
the bright spot of light, 162
trance-visions criticised, 184 et seq.
Pyramid, symbolism of the, 154
Pythagoreans, the, 155
numerical symbolisms of the, 156
Ram Mohan Roy, 336
Randolph, P. B., a half-initiated seer, 74
Reincarnation, what Karma causes ? 143
Reincarnations, of Buddha and other teachers,
19
among Lamas and Druses, 22
of hierophants, 331
" Revelations," a Kabalistic book, 96
Roman Catholic Church, possesses secret
knowledge, 102
and freemasonry, 297 et seq.
Rosier ucian Adepts, Hargrave Jennings on,
263
Row, T. Subba, on "The Aryan-Arhat
Esoteric Tenets on the Sevenfold
Principle in Man," 213
Russia, witchcraft in, 177
offering rice to the dead in, 258
Sanhya Philosophy, stands between Vedanta
and Buddhism, 60
Sargent, Epes, his writings on Spiritualism,
58
Satan, Eliphas Levi on, 97
Scham-bla-la,the sacred island, 215, 228
Science, limitations of, 46
and Spiritualism, 53
investigates illusory effects, 114
borrows from the Ancients, 182
Seven Principles of Man, tabulated, 101
Shaberons (see under Lamas)
" Shells "
(see also Elementaries)
or rcliqvia of the dead, 105 et seq.
two kinds of, 131, 136
as
" angel guides," 136
wrong to encourage their activity, 137
Sikhs, The, parallels with Druses and Lamas,
10
Sinnett, A. P., defends Theosophlsts in
Bombay Gazette, 338
Six-Pointed Star, the, represents the macro
cosm, 152
misconceptions corrected, 153
Socrates, the daimon of, 84
Sohar, or Book of Splendour, quoted, 153
Solomon's Seal, the interlaced triangles, 64
copied from the Vaishnava sign, 66
Soulless men, annihilated, 96
Dante on, 102
Space, the ether of, 197
or Akasa, 217
eternal energy of, 222
absolute, 230
subjective photographs impressed on,
303, 305
Spedalieri, Baron, a disciple of filiphas Levi,
91
Spirit, and matter one and eternal, 78
Spirit Identity, handwriting no proof of, 117
an alleged proof disproved, 184 et seq.
spirits not what they claim to be, 209
" Spirit-photographs," genuine phenomena,
301 et seq.
reproductions of images in invisible space,
302, 305
Spiritualism, Eliphas Levi's attitude
towards, 41
The Theosophist and, 45
the Fletcher case, 49
unpopularity of, 50
Christianity and, 51
men of science and, 53
testimony of professional conjurers, 56
the scientific basis of, 58
Epes Sargent on, 58
phenomenal stone-showers, 61
agencies causing them, 63
mediums and terrestrial magnetism, 63
INDEX 345
" M.A., Oxon's " beliefs criticised, 79
and Theosophists, 100
criticised in light of Occultism, 100 et seq.
the case for, stated by W. H. Terry, 98,
III, 122
mistakes of uninitiated seers, 127
many subjective communications genuine,
128
and the Christian churches, 173
and Theosophy —common ground between,
174-5
and Buddhism, 210
and Brahmanical doctrines as to, 225
"Spiritualist, The," attacks the Theoso
phists, 165
Spiritualists, as truth-seekers, 248
unprogressive character of their re
searches, 251
Spiritualists and Theosophists, both accept
the
" fact " of phenomena, 190 et seq.
make different deductions from the
phenomena, 207-10
brother-worshippers of Truth, 252
" Statesman and Friend of India," The
H. P. B. replies to charges made by,
204, 206, 241
Stone-showers, phenomenal, 61
produced by nature-elementals, 332
Suicide, and post-mortem conditions, 41
Suicides, spirits of, at seances, 138
incubi and succubi, 140
"Sunday Mirror," The (Calcutta), on the
Theosophists, 193
Sun-spots, Professor Balfour Stewart on, 29
Superstition, eastern and western, 175 et seq.
and miracles, 179
Swedenborg, and Tibet, 19
Symbols, the five-pointed star, 44
the Theosophical Seal, 154
Tattwas, of the 36, 162
Terrestrial Magnetism, its effect on medium-
istic phenomena, 63
Terry, W. H., on spirits embodied and dis
embodied, 98
his replies to H. P. B., Ill, 122
Theosophical Society, The, a Republic of
Conscience, 48
missionary slanders on, 59
not Buddhist, 59
missionary organs and, 314 el seq., 324
The Arya Samaj and, 326
questions and answers about, 334 et seq.
" Theosophist, The," and Spiritualism, 45
policy of, 47, 323
unsectarian, 147
Theosophists, their attitude towards Spirit
ualism, 100
hazy notions about their system, 193
et seq.
Theosophy, press allusions to, 275
Thought, contagious, 231
Tibet (see also Lamas), derivation of the
name, 19
The Bhon religion of, 228
theocracy of, resembles that of Egypt and
Chaldxa, 226
Anglo-Indian ignorance of, 267
reincarnations in, 267 et seq.
Trance-Orations, often faked, 109
explained, 109
Transfigurations, at stances, explained, 132
Trinity, everything to the Kabalist appears
as a, 153
Aryan and Kabalists, 154
Ttong-Ka-pa, the reformer of Lamaism,
24, 268
Vedantism, and Buddhism agree, 60
Vedas, require interpretation, 147
Victor Hugo, on religion, 49
Wagner, Professor N., and Spiritualism, 55
Wallace, Professor A.R., and Spiritualism, 54
Wallace, Mr. Joseph, his strictures replied
to, 289
Will, human, the alpha and omega of
magical force, 66
Yogi, higher powers of trained, 332
Zodiac, Virgo and Scorpio formerly one sign
exoterically, 160
the significance of Leo, 161
the significance of Virgo, 161
